Well, consider nitrates to be a “slow release” form of nitrites. Bacteria in meat after a while will react with nitrate and create nitrITE. Since nitrite gets used up during the curing process, it is important to use some nitrates for meat curing that takes a while – like salami. Nitrites and nitrates can be fatal when used in too high of a dose. Just 1/3 teaspoon of nitrITE could be fatal. You would need 1 teaspoon, perhaps more of nitrATE to have a similarly fatal effect. Because of this it is incredibly hard for the general public to buy pure nitrite and nitrate.
Even though adding nitrates to cured meats is no longer necessary with better production and food storage methods, which have decreased the potential for food-borne illness, they are still used in cooked meats to maintain the familiar pink color and cured flavor. Even nitrites themselves are sometimes added directly to meat to speed up the curing process. When nitrates are consumed, they convert in the body to nitrites, which form nitrosamines, a known powerful carcinogen. Eating cured meats containing nitrates may also double your risk for lung disease.
When the sodium nitrate in celery, or other sodium nitrate-containing vegetables, is exposed to certain types of bacteria in the product, the nitrate is converted to sodium nitrite, which results in product characteristics similar to traditionally cured meat products. Sodium nitrite is a salt and an anti-oxidant that is used to cure meats like ham, bacon and hot dogs. Sodium nitrite serves a vital public health function: it blocks the growth of botulism-causing bacteria and prevents spoilage. Sodium nitrite also gives cured meats their characteristic color and flavor.
Yes, this is a real fear. Many (though not all) cured meats contain sodium nitrite (NaNO 2), which is used for a couple of reasons. One is that it's responsible for the distinct flavor of bacon, ham, and many sausages, as well as reacting with the myoglobin in the meat to keep it pink even when cooked. 
Both Nitrates and nitrites are permitted to be used in curing meat and poultry with the exception of bacon, where Nitrate use is prohibited. Sodium nitrite is commonly used in the USA (Cure #1) and everywhere else in the world. When Nitrates were used alone, salt penetration was usually ahead of color development. As a result large pieces of meat were too salty when fully colored and had to be soaked in water. This problem has been eliminated when using nitrite.
Nitrates and nitrites occur naturally in plant foods as part of the nitrogen cycle between air, land and water environments. Most of our dietary exposure to nitrates and nitrites is through fruit and vegetables. Eating fruit and vegetables is widely recommended due to the strong evidence of beneficial health effects against a range of diseases. Nitrates and nitrites have also been used as food additives in cured meats and some cheeses for many years, primarily to prevent the growth of Clostridium botulinum. Adding nitrites or nitrates improves the microbiological safety of these foods and extends their safe shelf life
Nitrates and nitrites must be used with caution during curing. Both can be considered toxic and for that reason, strict limits on their use have been established. Usually, the amount of added sodium nitrite lies in the range of 50-200 mg/kg and nitrate in the range of 200 to 600 mg /kg. Excessive use of nitrate (too much) and/or nitrites can cause severe oxidation of the meat pigment producing a green pigment. This form of greening of cured meats is referred to as nitrite burn. This product was added to our catalog on Friday 28 July, 2006.
1 Amount of bacteria present in meat that is needed for Nitrate to produce nitrite and here we do not have any control. 2  The more bacteria present, the more nitrite released. 3  Adding sugar may be beneficial as it provides food for bacteria to grow faster. When Nitrates were used alone, salt penetration was usually ahead of color development. As a result large pieces of meat were too salty when fully colored and had to be soaked in water. This problem has been eliminated when using nitrite.
Nitrates are used in many foods, especially cured meats such as bacon, hot dogs, bologna, salami, pepperoni, corned beef, pastrami, and other deli meats such as cured ham, and turkey. The nitrites preserve the pink color, and prevent the growth of bacteria that can cause botulism. Even nitrites themselves are sometimes added directly to meat to speed up the curing process. When nitrates are consumed, they convert in the body to nitrites, which form nitrosamines, a known powerful carcinogen. Eating cured meats containing nitrates may also double your risk for lung disease.