In a Contract for Deed, both the seller and the buyer have responsibilities when it comes to the property. Unlike a lender financed mortgage, the seller retains the property deed until the purchase price has been paid in full. Because of this, each party has different obligations in terms of insurance and property tax.
A contract typically does not have to be notarized. A notary public (or simply notary) provides an acknowledgment that the signature appearing on the document is that of the person whose signature it purports to be. There is a requirement that some documents be notarized, such as a real property deed. Unless specifically required by state or municipal law, a contract does not have to be acknowledged before a notary public. A notary is a person licensed to approve other’s signatures.
The grantee’s address is required, but the grantee’s signature is only required if the deed contains specific agreements that the buyer makes in exchange for the transfer. In Texas, a real estate deed does not have to be recorded to be fully effective between the grantor and grantee.
A Contract for Deed (or Land Contract) is a contract for the purchase of real property (real estate) in which the seller retains the deed (title) to the property until the purchaser makes payments in installments equal to the agreed upon purchase price.
Any private contracts for sales of goods or services do not require a notary signature. In addition, come court papers, such as petitions and motions do not have to be notarized, mainly because the person filing the form is the person who drafted it.
In English law (though not in Scots law), a deed is a more formal agreement than a simple contract. Execution formalities go further than a mere signature for the deed to be enforceable, though they are used only for a few types of transaction, including transfers of land, leases mortgages and powers of attorney.
The monthly payment required on a Contract for Deed is usually similar to that of a mortgage payment, meaning that a portion of the installment will go towards the repayment of the principal, and the other portion will go towards the repayment of the interest owed.