Ovaries function by releasing eggs every month; each ovary takes turns to release the egg. However, in case one of them ceases to function or is damaged, the other will continue to produce eggs. Ovaries not only play an important role in the female reproductive system, but also in hormone regulation. 
The ovary is the expanded inferior part of the carpel. It contains the ovules waiting to be fertilized by pollen. The function of an ovary is to hold egg cells in a flower t … o use when beginning the reproductive cycle. small,paired organs that are located near the lateral walls of the pelvic cavity. the ovary is the place inside the ova or eggs are produced. produce one egg per month The ovaries have two functions: they produce eggs (also called ova) and female hormones.
Birds have only one functional ovary (left), while the other remains vestigial. Ovaries in female are analogous to testes in male, in that they are both gonads and endocrine glands. Although ovaries occur in a wide variety of animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, this article is primarily about human ovaries. In the case of human ovaries, each one is whitish in color and located alongside the lateral wall of the uterus in a region called the ovarian fossa. The fossa usually lies beneath the external iliac artery and in front of the ureter and the internal iliac artery. It is about 4 cm x 3 cm x 2 cm in size.
The function of the ovary is to produce the ovules that will later be either fertilized or released during the menstrual cycle.   the ovary stores and produces eggs for th … e female body.   you'll have to ask my agent... Purpose of the ovaries is to produce ovulation (egg) for conception. 
They are located in the pelvis, one on each side of the uterus. The ovaries are connected to each other by the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. The ovaries have two functions: they produce eggs (also called ova) and female hormones. The size of each ovary is about 1.5 inches long. Each month, during the menstrual cycle, an egg is released from one ovary. The egg travels from the ovary through a fallopian tube to the uterus. The ovaries are the main source of female hormones (estrogen and progesterone)
The ovary is an ovum-producing reproductive organ, often found in pairs as part of the vertebrate female reproductive system. Ovaries are oval-shaped endocrine system glands, the group of glands that produce a variety of hormones human body needs to function appropriately. Ovaries are found in females, one on each side of the uterus. An ovum is a female reproductive cell.
Normal Ovarian Function. The ovaries are two small organs, about the size of your thumb, that are located in the female pelvis. They are attached to the uterus, one on each side, near the opening of the fallopian tube. The ovaries contain the female gamete cell, called the oocyte. In non medical terms, the oocyte is called the “egg”. 
The ovary is a ductless reproductive gland in which the female reproductive cells are produced. Females have a pair of ovaries, held by a membrane beside the uterus on each side of the lower abdomen. The ovary is needed in reproduction since it is responsible for producing the female reproductive cells, or ova. 
Answer by RJJJJJ. Confidence votes 57. The Function of the Ovary is to produce egg cells in the reproductive System. The ovary is an organ in female animals which produces eggs. It also produces hormones which regulate other female sex organs. small,paired organs that are located near the lateral walls of the pelvic cavity. the ovary is the place inside the ova or eggs are produced. produce one egg per month The ovaries have two functions: they produce eggs (also called ova) and female hormones.
What are Ovaries, Definition and Function. Ovaries-The female organs of reproduction, also called the female gonads. The ovaries produce OVA (eggs) and sex hormones, predominantly ESTROGENS and PROGESTERONE as well as small amounts of ANDROGENS. A woman has two ovaries, one ovary on each side of the UTERUS in the lower abdomen. Ligaments suspend the ovaries in place within the abdominal cavity. Each ovary is about the size, shape, and consistency of a large olive.