Kale is a flowering edible vegetable / ornamental annual/perennial, it will last at least a year and up to several years in its native climate. Kale is known for its erect habit and growing to a height of approximately 45.0 cm (1.46 feet). This plant tends to bloom in early summer. Try planting Kale if you'd like to attract butterflies to your garden. 
7. Remove lower leaves of Sunset ornamental kale with your fingers, beginning when the plants are 6 inches tall, continuing as they grow until they have a red to deep pink center with one outer layer of green to pink-streaked green leaves and a 10-inch stem. It may take up to four weeks for color to fully develop. Keep the plants moist as they establish in their new location. Remove lower leaves of Sunset ornamental kale with your fingers, beginning when the plants are 6 inches tall, continuing as they grow until they have a red to deep pink center with one outer layer of green to pink-streaked green leaves and a 10-inch stem.
1 You can plant kale anytime from early spring to early summer. 2  If you plant kale late in the summer you can harvest it from fall until the ground freezes in winter. 3  Mix 1-½ cups of 5-10-10 fertilizer per 25 feet of row into the top 3 to 4 inches of soil. 4  Plant the seeds ¼ to ½ inch deep into well-drained, light soil. 1 If you plant kale late in the summer you can harvest it from fall until the ground freezes in winter. 2  Mix 1-½ cups of 5-10-10 fertilizer per 25 feet of row into the top 3 to 4 inches of soil. 3
1 Lacinato or Dino Kale also has a wrinkled texture, though its leaves are tall and skinny. 2  Premier Kale is known for its cold hardiness and its ability to grow quickly. 3  Siberian Kale is the hardiest variety that (as the name suggests) can withstand harsh temperatures and easily resist pests. Kale prefers soil with a pH between 5.5 and 6.8. Make sure that you plant your kale in healthy soil. Sandy or clay-like soil will hurt the kale's flavor and production ability. 1  If the pH level is below 5.5, enrich the soil to make it less acidic. 2  If the soil pH is above 6.8, mix in granular sulfur to lower the pH level.
Ornamental Kale Size and Color. Ornamental kale grows between 9 and 18 inches tall and 12 to 18 inches wide. The plant grows into a clump or mound in a rosette shape. The many bright colors form in cool temperatures and after the plants almost full-grown. Ornamental kale (Brassica oleracea var. acephala) shares the same growing requirement as other kale varieties and adds color your garden in fall and early winter. Ornamental kale produces lacy or frilled, deeply lobed foliage in eye-catching colors, and it is edible.
Planting. 1  You can plant kale anytime from early spring to early summer. 2  If you plant kale late in the summer you can harvest it from fall until the ground freezes in winter. 3  Mix 1-½ cups of 5-10-10 fertilizer per 25 feet of row into the top 3 to 4 inches of soil. 1 If you plant kale late in the summer you can harvest it from fall until the ground freezes in winter. 2  Mix 1-½ cups of 5-10-10 fertilizer per 25 feet of row into the top 3 to 4 inches of soil. 3  Plant the seeds ¼ to ½ inch deep into well-drained, light