• Base attrition on the total number of guest rooms booked for the duration of the event, not rooms reserved for each day. For example, if you have a block of 50 rooms per night for a four-day event, this counts as a cumulative 200-room block. Even during the best of times, hotel room attrition penalties are one of the most challenging issues a planner can face. With the economic downturn making it harder than ever to predict attendance, attrition fees can make or break a budget.
Attrition is the turnover of employees, or the loss of employees for an organization owing to resignations, retirements, death, or any other purpose. Attrition rates are the ratio of employees leaving compared to the total number of employees. To calculate annualized attrition rate, divide the numerator, that is number of employees leaving during the period by the number of days in the period and multiply by 365, and apply the same formula. The denominator or the average number of employees during the period remains unchanged without additional data.
A Definition of Attrition Rate. A common attrition rate definition refers to employee or staff turnover, but in a broader sense, attrition rate is a calculation of the number of individuals or items that vacate or move out of a larger, collective group over a specified time frame. Attrition rate is also commonly referred to as churn rate. Attrition rate is a complimentary figure to retention rate, which refers to the number of customers retained during a given period, and to customer acquisition rate, which refers to the number of new customers acquired during a given period. The three figures together should equal 100 percent
BREAKING DOWN 'Attrition'. This type of reduction in staff is one way a company can decrease labor costs: the company simply waits for its employees to leave and freezes hiring. Such a method contrasts the more severe labor-reduction techniques, such as mass layoffs. Next Up
1. attrition rate-the rate of shrinkage in size or number. rate of attrition. rate-a magnitude or frequency relative to a time unit; they traveled at a rate of 55 miles per hour; the rate of change was faster than expected. 
Definition. Employee turnover and employee attrition both occur when an employee leaves the company. Turnover, however, may result from a number of employment actions, such as discharge, termination, resignation or job abandonment. Attrition occurs when an employee retires or when the company eliminates his job
Basics. To calculation your company's attrition rate, you divide the number of employees who leave in a given year by the total number of positions you have. For instance, if you have 100 positions available and 30 employees leave the company in a given year, your attrition rate is 30 percent. This may be high or low, depending on the industry. Retail, as an example, tends to have a relatively high level of attrition as an industry
DEFINITION of 'Attrition'. The reduction in staff and employees in a company through normal means, such as retirement and resignation. This is natural in any business and industry. Next Up. This type of reduction in staff is one way a company can decrease labor costs: the company simply waits for its employees to leave and freezes hiring.