HIV is present in breast milk, so it’s important that you bottle feed your baby formula milk, as it’s still possible for a mother to pass on HIV to her baby by breastfeeding. In the UK and other countries where women can formula feed safely, you are advised only to feed your baby with formula milk from birth.
All babies born to infected mothers test positive for HIV. They have antibodies to HIV even if they are not infected because the mother's antibodies are passed to the baby. This does not mean the baby is infected. Fact Sheet 102 has more information on HIV tests.
Your baby should have a final test – this time an HIV antibody test – at 18 to 24 months, to confirm that your (maternal) antibodies are no longer present. A negative HIV antibody test result for your baby at 18 months of age is the final test that is done to confirm that the baby is not infected.
1 HIV-negative (not infected with HIV) : 2  To know for certain that a baby is not infected with HIV, results on two virologic tests must be negative. 3  The first negative result must be from a test done when a baby is 1 month or older, and the second result from a test done when a baby is 4 months or older.
1 HIV testing for babies born to women with HIV is recommended at 14 to 21 days after birth, at 1 to 2 months, and again at 4 to 6 months. 2  The test used (called a virologic HIV test) looks directly for HIV in the blood. 3  Results on two virologic tests must be negative to be certain that a baby is not infected with HIV.
HIV testing in babies. If you and your healthcare team know that you have HIV, your baby will be tested at birth to see if he or she has been infected with HIV. This test will be repeated after six weeks and again after twelve weeks.
The baby will test positive and continue to test positive for HIV. Other blood tests, called PCR and viral culture, can also be used to check babies for HIV infection. These tests may be able to tell your doctor if your baby is infected during the first 6 months of age.
This doesn't mean the baby is infected. Babies keep the mother's antibodies until they can make their own, which happens between 6 and 18 months of age. If the baby isn't infected, he or she will lose the mother's antibodies and start to test negative for HIV sometime
If your baby is not infected with HIV these will gradually disappear. This can sometimes take as long as 18 months. The best test for HIV in babies is very similar to a viral load test. Called an HIV PCR DNA test, it looks for virus in the baby’s blood rather than at immune responses. Good practice in the UK is to test babies the day they are born, and then when they are six weeks and three months old.