Ragan in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Ragan genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Ragan surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Ragan in Ancestry Message Boards. 
ragan Genealogy research can be facilitated by use of this page. It links to the majority of the ragan surname data on the web, as well as to individual ragan family trees, ragan origin and ragan meaning if known, and many other ragan genealogy resources. 
The name Ragan is a variant of Regan. Other popular variants of the name Regan are: Raegan, Ragan, Raygan, Reagan, Reaghan, Reegan, Regane, Regann, Reganne, Reghan, Regin, Regyn. Of royalty blood. Often used as an Irish surname. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. Origins. The name Ragan is very likely a(n) Irish variant of the name Regan. See other suggested Irish girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Rega
Ragan Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the Ragan families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Name History and Origin for Ragan Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background. You might find alternate name spellings which are helpful when searching for family records.
Ragan is a rare given name for women but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#3162 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of Ragan and affiliated names. 
1 Plaques and Frames with the coat of arms for the name Ragan. 2  Surname Histories for the name Ragan. 3  Symbolism with a Ragan family crest. 4  Travel Mugs emphasing the family crest for the name Ragan. 1 Family Crest for the name Ragan. 2  Family Tree with the coat of arms for the name Ragan. 3  Hand Painted Plaques emphasing the family crest for the name Ragan. 4  Keychains revealing the
This interesting surname is Irish. It derives from O' Riagain, composed of the elements O', meaning male descendant of, and the personal name Riagan, from riodhgach, meaning impulsive. This is a widespread name which came, not from one ancestor, but from several. 
The Family Facts archive, with its rich historical information, can tell you everything from the lifespan of your ancestors to the very meaning of your last name. Every time you find a fact, we'll tell you what it means. Ragan Origin and Immigration. Name History and Origin for Ragan Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background. You might find alternate name spellings which are helpful when searching for family records.
This surname of RAGAN was a Spanish ethnic name from ARAGON in North eastern Spain, which was an independent kingdom from about 1035 to the 14th century. There are various speculations about the etymology of the name, but the true origin is probably irrecoverable. 