The apothecaries' system of weights is a historical system of mass units that were used by physicians and apothecaries for medical recipes, and also sometimes by scientists. The English version of the system is closely related with the English troy system of weights, the pound and grain being exactly the same in both. It divides a pound into 12 ounces, an ounce into 8 drachms, and a drachm into 3 scruples or 60 grains. The apothecaries' system often used the same ounces as the precious metals system, although even then the number of ounces in a pound could be different.
Apothecary was the early name applied to individuals who prepared and sold substances for medical use. The forerunner of today's pharmacist, the apothecary procured, mixed, and evaluated medications. The role of the apothecary-pharmacist has undergone many changes over the centuries. By the turn of the twentieth century, the apothecary as a compounder of medicine who also counseled patients on health, was still the accepted approach topharmacy. The apothecary-pharmacist still compounded approximately 60 percent of all medications dispensed in the 1930s and 1940s.
Apothecary, as a profession, could date back to 2600 BC to ancient Babylon, which provides one of the earliest records of the practice of the apothecary. Apothecary derives from the Ancient Greek word ἀποθήκη (apothḗkē, “a repository, storehouse”), Latin apotheca (“repository, storehouse, warehouse”), Old French apotecaire, from Medieval Latin apothecarius (“storekeeper”), from apotheca (“shop, store”), which eventually came to mean an Apothecary, or Pharmacist.
The apothecary was a respected man. He sold and mixed medicine in his shop. Buyers did not need a prescription. Often the apothecary had no special training and no license. A doctor and an apothecary were very much alike. Both mixed medicine. Both visited the sick. Either might apply leeches to reduce pain and swelling. Or they might bleed a patient to treat most any disease.
Apothecary is a term that refers to an individual who prepares and sells drugs and medicines. The term was used often in medieval Europe, but is seldom used in modern times. I think it's interesting too that medicine is much more specialized in modern times. For instance, now we have doctors, pharmacist, and ob/gyn's to perform all the duties that an apothecary used to do!
During Medieval times, the equivalent of today's apothecary-pharmacist were primarily priests, monks, and medicine men. In 1606, the Society of Apothecaries of London was created through a charterissued by James I (James VI of Scotland) and was associated with the Guild ofGrocers. By the turn of the twentieth century, the apothecary as a compounder of medicine who also counseled patients on health, was still the accepted approach topharmacy. The apothecary-pharmacist still compounded approximately 60 percent of all medications dispensed in the 1930s and 1940s.
In addition to dispensing medicines, the apothecary offered general medical advice and a range of services that are now performed by other specialist practitioners, such as surgeons and obstetricians. Apothecary derives from the Ancient Greek word ἀποθήκη (apothḗkē, “a repository, storehouse”), Latin apotheca (“repository, storehouse, warehouse”), Old French apotecaire, from Medieval Latin apothecarius (“storekeeper”), from apotheca (“shop, store”), which eventually came to mean an Apothecary, or Pharmacist.
Medicines found in the apothecary are made from plants, berries, roots and bark and in many cases are actually grown by the apothecary himself. The ingredients and instructions for preparation and use are kept in a journal. Some are beneficial while others were created based on superstition and false beliefs. Early in the period, apothecaries were considered doctors as not only did they prepare medicines and remedies for patients, but they also treated patients, dressed wounds and performed minor surgeries for a fee.
An apothecary /əˈpɒθɨkəri/ was a medical professional who formulated and dispensed materia medica to physicians, surgeons and patients. Apothecary derives from the Ancient Greek word ἀποθήκη (apothḗkē, “a repository, storehouse”), Latin apotheca (“repository, storehouse, warehouse”), Old French apotecaire, from Medieval Latin apothecarius (“storekeeper”), from apotheca (“shop, store”), which eventually came to mean an Apothecary, or Pharmacist.