Something for nothing (1940). A Rube Goldberg machine is a contraption, invention, device or apparatus that is deliberately over-engineered to perform a simple task in a complicated fashion, usually including a chain reaction. The expression is named after American cartoonist and inventor Rube Goldberg (1883–1970). Rube Goldberg's cartoons became well known for depicting complicated devices that performed simple tasks in indirect, convoluted ways.
Rueben Garret Lucius Goldberg was born on July 4th 1883 in San Francisco. By the end of his lifetime in December 7th 1970, he was known as an inventor, sculptor, author, engineer and cartoonist and would make a mark in history for his extraordinary achievements. Visit Rube Goldeberg's official site. In 1938, Rube Goldberg gave up cartooning and wrote popular articles and stories but returned to editorial cartooning for the New York Sun. Later, he was employed by the New York Journal America until his retirement in 1964 where thereafter he made bronze sculptors.
Reuben Garrett Lucius Rube Goldberg (July 4, 1883 – December 7, 1970) was an American cartoonist, sculptor, author, engineer, and inventor. He is the inspiration for various international competitions, known as Rube Goldberg Machine Contests, which challenge participants to make a complicated machine to perform a simple task.
Using the character, he would illustrate inventions that later become known as the “Rube Goldberg Machine”. A “Rube Goldberg Machine” is an extremely complicated device that executes a very simple task in a complex, indirect way. This is now used as an expression to describe any system that's confusing or complicated and came about from Goldberg's illustrations of absurd machines. In 1938, Rube Goldberg gave up cartooning and wrote popular articles and stories but returned to editorial cartooning for the New York Sun. Later, he was employed by the New York Journal America until his retirement in 1964 where thereafter he made bronze sculptors.
Rube Goldberg's granddaughter Jennifer George gets zipped up in A Simple Way to Get Dressed, the winning Rube Goldberg machine from this year's national competition-the task was to ZIP A ZIPPER... Rube Goldberg added 1 video to Favorites 3 years ago. 2:47. 
History of the Rube Goldberg machine contest. Rube Goldberg Machine Contests bring Goldberg's cartoons to life in a way that pulls students away from traditional ways of looking at problems and sends them spinning into the intuitive, chaotic realm of imagination. 
The first illustration depicting a “Rube Goldberg Machine” was an Automatic Weight Reducing Machine in 1914 using components such as a donut, bomb, wax, balloon and hot stove to trap an obese person in a sound and food proof prison, who had to lose weight before wriggling free. In 1938, Rube Goldberg gave up cartooning and wrote popular articles and stories but returned to editorial cartooning for the New York Sun. Later, he was employed by the New York Journal America until his retirement in 1964 where thereafter he made bronze sculptors.
Rube Goldberg: The father of inventions. | The popular board game Mousetrap is an example of a Rube Goldberg-inspired machine, a contraption that contains elaborate mechanisms with a vast array of moving parts to perform a simple function. Mo Rocca visits the Rube Goldberg Machine Contest, where less is never more. 
In 1914, a Rube Goldberg Machine was first incorporated into Rube's cartoon strip. The Automatic Weight Reducing Machine was made up of a donut, bomb, wax, balloons and a hot stove. One overweight man was trapped in the machine who apparently had to lose weight to escape. Rube Goldberg was an American inventor, engineer, and a Pulitzer Prize winning political cartoonist. Rube invented very complicated and often impractical devices that were know to do the most absurd of actions.