Real Estate Sales Agent Salary. (United States). The average salary for a Real Estate Sales Agent is $40,576 per year. Experience strongly influences pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career.
(United States). A Real Estate Agent earns an average salary of $43,860 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. $23,273 - $98,735. 
Employment Outlook and Salary Information. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) in 2014, real estate brokers earned an annual median salary of $57,360 and real estate sales agents earned $40,990. The BLS predicted employment growth of 11% for brokers and agents, from 2012-2022. The curriculum in a real estate associate degree program covers business, management, professionalism, customer service and sales techniques specific to the real estate industry. Students take courses in communications, management, public speaking and college math as part of the general education requirements.
The salary for someone with the job title Real Estate Sales Agent in Orlando, FL varies depending on a number of factors. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Orlando, FL that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Orlando are expected to make less than the median
The median hourly wage for real estate sales agents was $18.82 in May 2012. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $9.95, and the top 10 percent earned more than $45.93. Brokers and sales agents earn most of their income from commissions on sales. The median hourly wage for real estate brokers was $28.05 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $12.32, and the top 10 percent earned more than $85.07.
To become a Florida real estate sales associate, you must successfully complete Course I: Sales Associate License Course, submit an application with fee ($89) , have electronic fingerprints taken through PearsonVUE ($57.25) and successfully complete the state examination ($31.50) . 
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Miami, FL that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Miami are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of September 2015. 
A real estate sales associate assists clients in renting, buying and selling properties. This career involves a great deal of research, interpersonal communication and knowledge of zoning and taxation laws. More than half of these professionals are self-employed and might be able to set their own hours. Step 2: Get Licensed. After completing pre-licensure training, associates can apply to take their state's licensing exam. A real estate sales associate must submit proof of education and pay the appropriate fees, as well as complete a criminal background check.