Treatment of Freiberg's disease. Freiberg's disease may be asymptomatic, or it may heal without treatment particularly in Stages I through III. When medical intervention is necessary, the treatment goal is to rest the metatarsal joints, allowing the joint inflammation and irritation to go away. The disease is associated with the gradual collapse or disintegration of the joint surfaces between the metatarsals as well as the formation of abnormal joint tissue. Causes of Freiberg's disease. The specific events or factors that cause Freiberg's disease are not completely understood.
Freiberg’s Infarction is the term applied to the condition when it occurs in a child. It is likely that the excessive pressure causes a small fracture to occur within the cartilage growth plate that exists between the long shaft of the metatarsal bone and the head, cutting off the blood flow. Freiberg’s Infraction. Freiberg’s Infraction is the terminology used in the adult condition where the x-ray signs are very similar. It has been shown that, while many people have two or three arteries that can supply blood to the area, some have only one making complete loss of blood flow more possible.
Freiberg disease: Introduction. Freiberg disease: A condition where progressive degeneration of the head of a toe bone (usually the second toe) results in foot pain. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Freiberg disease is available below
Synonyms: Freiberg's infraction. This is a rare disease characterised by osteonecrosis of the second metatarsal head, most commonly seen in teenage girls. It was first described in 1914 by Alfred H. Freiberg. It is difficult to ascertain the true incidence of Freiberg's disease, as many cases may resolve spontaneously before treatment has been sought.
Dr Jeremy Jones ◉ et al. Freiberg disease, also known as Freiberg infraction, is osteochondrosis of metatarsal heads. It typically affects the 2 nd metatarsal head (the third and fourth may also be affected). It can be bilateral in up to 10% of cases
It is not a severe widespread disease, but a condition whereby the head of the metatarsal becomes misshapen and loses its nice round smooth contour. As the end of the bone loses its shape it gradually turns into a “square peg“ trying to fit into a “round socket”. 
Freiberg disease, also known as a Freiberg infraction, is a form of avascular necrosis in the metatarsal. It generally develops in the second metatarsal, but can occur in any metatarsal. Physical stress causes repeated microfractures where the middle of the metatarsal meets the growth plate. 
Freiberg’s Disease. Note the flattened tip of the 2nd Metatarsal bone. Freiberg’s disease refers to a painful condition mostly affecting the 2nd metatarsal head. This is the bony ‘knuckle’ in the ball of the foot behind the 2nd toe. Freiberg’s Infraction. Freiberg’s Infraction is the terminology used in the adult condition where the x-ray signs are very similar. It has been shown that, while many people have two or three arteries that can supply blood to the area, some have only one making complete loss of blood flow more possible.