Deoxyribonucleic acid is a phosphorous containing compound, as opposed to a protein which is a sulphur containing compound and the name refers to the chemicals that it consists of. Deoxyribose-This is a sugar, known chemically as a pentose, a five-carbon sugar. Nucleic-Refers to the location of DNA inside the nucleus. The molecule was originally called 'nuclein' by Frederick Miescher, the man who discovered DNA in 1869. Acid-It is a phosphoric acid. What DNA is Made of. A DNA molecule contains all the information necessary to grow, build and maintain an organism. First discovered in 1869 by Frederick Miescher, it's fundamental to our understanding of basic genetics.
RNA stands for ribonucleic acid, and it's very similar to DNA. It can be found in several locations inside cells and plays an integral role in the formation of proteins. slide 1 of 2. RNA and DNA are both nucleic acids. But whilst DNA basks in the spotlight and gets all the attention, RNA is less well known. Yet the function of RNA is just as important for the manufacture of proteins.
DNA-Deoxyribo nucleic acid. Is where the letters come from however it is written deoxyribonucleic acid. DNA is a nucleic acid which is fundamental to the development of new c … ells. Information found in DNA encoded in genes on chromosomes is read and used to create all new cells in the body. 7 people found this useful.
deoxyribonucleic acid, desoxyribonucleic acid, DNA (noun). (biochemistry) a long linear polymer found in the nucleus of a cell and formed from nucleotides and shaped like a double helix; associated with the transmission of genetic information. see more on Definitions.net »
Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses 
DNA is an acronym that stands for Deoxyribonucleic acid. It is found in the nucleus of a cell. It is the genetic code for all living life forms. Is where the letters come from however it is written deoxyribonucleic acid. DNA is a nucleic acid which is fundamental to the development of new c … ells. Information found in DNA encoded in genes on chromosomes is read and used to create all new cells in the body. 7 people found this useful.
Inside almost every single cell in your body is a structure called the nucleus, which is the control centre of the cell. Inside the nucleus are 23 pairs of chromosomes. These are long strings of DNA. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid (pronounced dee-oxy-rye-bow-nu-clay-ik acid). Each string of DNA is shaped like a twisted ladder, which is called a double helix. You have more than two metres of DNA inside every cell, but it is very tightly coiled up so it all fits
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. 
RNA and DNA are collectively known as nucleic acids.   DNA-Deoxyribonucleic Acid   RNA-Ribonucleic Acid   DNA is the immutable code that is always stored inside t … he nucleus. It carries the directions with making all RNA and proteins inside a cell. 