The bars and clubs are now in full swing with fantastic acts and 'must do' parties. It's time to pack those high heels girls and book that flight! The heat is starting to build and the bars are in full swing with a full programme of artists. Benidorm has a fabulous nightlife for all ages. 
Slap bang in the Costa Blanca, Benidorm's sunshine is part of what makes it one of the best holiday destinations in the Mediterranean but it also has a unique micro-climate created by the surrounding hills that makes it so very special. Open to the south on the double curve of its two long beaches beaches, Benidorm is protected from the winds by the mountains Sierra Helada to the east, Aitana to the north and Tossal de la Cala to the west.
The Benidorm, Costa Blanca climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine. 
May is a pleasant time to visit Benidorm, Spain, when the average temperature is 20°C. At this time of year, highs of up to 22°C are common, cooling down to lows of 12°C after dark. Located at the far end of Levante beach, this bay is the smallest one in the resort and is a challenge to get to. Due to its remote location, this beach is popular with naturists, although being nude isn’t obligatory. Facilities are only available during the peak summer months in the form of sun beds and shades.
The weather in Benidorm is ideal for you if you want to escape the bleak, cold days of winter that are found in the central and northern parts of Europe. It has only around 350 millimetres (mm) of rain every year. Most of it falls in the autumn (September, October and November). The mountain peaks, which are only 30km north of Benidorm, receive up to 950 mm of rain annually.
Benidorm Weather in June. The weather in Benidorm in June is just right in our opinion. We recommend it as the best month to visit (as well as Sepember). You will be wearing shorts and T-shirts because at this time of year the average temperature for June in Benidorm is 23 degrees Celsius. Benidorm in the summer is extremely hot as you will see from the average temperatures below. In terms of weather and the best times to visit Benidorm, we often recommend that June and September are the best months.
This page is a guide to fiestas in Benidorm Spain. Fiesta is the Spanish for festival, basically it is one giant celebration and party often with fireworks. Try plan a visit to Benidorm to coincide with one of the many fiestas for a glimpse into real Spanish culture. Benidorm Fiestas – Page Summary – This page covers the main festivals known as fiestas held in the town of Benidorm on the Costa Blanca coast of Spain. If you plan to visit Benidorm try coincide your visit with one of these events. Main Benidorm Pages You Might Like. 1  Airport Transfers to Benidorm. 2  Aqualandia.
At this time of the year, the resort enjoys 12 hours of sunshine each day as well as an average sea temperature of 21°C. With around seven rainy days each month, there is a small chance that you’ll experience a shower or two d... Read more. At this time of the year, the resort enjoys 12 hours of sunshine each day as well as an average sea temperature of 21°C. With around seven rainy days each month, there is a small chance that you’ll experience a shower or two during your holiday. Where to stay.
This report describes the typical weather at the Alicante Airport (El Altet Airport) (Alicante/Benidorm/Costa Blanca, Spain) weather station over the course of an average May. It is based on the historical records from 2006 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. 