How to Heal Faster from a C Section. Two Parts: Healing in the Hospital Healing at Home. A Cesarean section, or C-section, is the surgical birth of a child. The C-section is a major surgery, and healing from one takes longer than healing from a vaginal birth, and requires different techniques. Do not bike, jog, or do any strenuous exercise for at least six weeks after your C-section, at least not without consulting your doctor. 1  Avoid taking stairs as much as possible. 2  If your bedroom is upstairs, relocate to a downstairs room for the first few weeks of your recovery.
I left the hospital in 3 days, took my pain meds and did too much with my 21 month old. I ended up back in the hospital 4 days after my surgery. For 80% recovery it took 4 weeks and 100% recovery 6 weeks. I am having my third c-section in 2 weeks and my Dr told me to plan on 8 weeks for 100% recovery. My advice is take it easy and don't push too hard or you will end up back in the hospital. This is major surgery. 
A cesarean section is a major surgery and requires extra care after the baby is born. Because of this, it takes a while for the incision to heal. The exact amount of time that it takes for the incision to heal can depend on a number of factors. For example, you can speed up the healing process by cleaning the incision properly and paying attention to your nutrition. If you are not able to do these things, is it possible that the incision will become infected, meaning that it will take even longer for it to heal. Women who have a cesarean section are usually released to return to normal activities after 6 weeks. This is usually enough tim
You will have to bear in mind that your C-section is a major surgery. Because of this, you will not be able to fully recover in as quickly as a few days. Rather, you will have to endure pain while doing everyday activities such as getting out of bed and putting on clothes for a couple of months. Do not expect to get well immediately after your baby is born. It will take a month to six weeks for you to completely recuperate from the many discomforts you will encounter. These include exhaustion, sleep deprivation, bloody discharge, uterus contraction, soreness at your incision site, and breast engorgement.
by ds_51230 Leave a Comment. A Cesarean section delivery, or C-section is a major abdominal surgery, so you can expect that it will take longer to heal than a vaginal delivery. Exact healing times vary from woman to woman, though there are things that you can do to help it along. The more rest you get, the faster you can heal. 
If you have had a C-section without complications, you can expect to spend about three days in the hospital, and to be through with bleeding, discharge, and most kinds of wound care after four to six weeks. Do not bike, jog, or do any strenuous exercise for at least six weeks after your C-section, at least not without consulting your doctor. 1  Avoid taking stairs as much as possible. 2  If your bedroom is upstairs, relocate to a downstairs room for the first few weeks of your recovery.
9. Abstain from sex. After a c-section or a vaginal delivery, you body may need four to six weeks of healing before you can engage in most forms of sexual activity. If you have had a c-section, it might take even longer for your incision to be firmly healed. Do not bike, jog, or do any strenuous exercise for at least six weeks after your C-section, at least not without consulting your doctor. 1  Avoid taking stairs as much as possible. 2  If your bedroom is upstairs, relocate to a downstairs room for the first few weeks of your recovery.
Your incision will take up to six weeks to heal completely. During this time, there are precautions you will need to take: – Avoid lifting anything that weighs more than your new baby. – Avoid or limit trips up and down stairs. There is a lot involved in this procedure. Not only does your incision have to heal, but even the nerves around your incision need to regenerate. This particular process can take as much as nine months! However, the healing process does begin much more quickly. It is likely that after your c-section you will stay in the hospital from 3 to 5 days, assuming there were no complications. During this time, you will have access to pain medication as needed, and your physician can keep an eye out for infection or other difficultie