Of course, the conclusion that genes don't influence personality is most certainly wrong, after all, we have decades of twin research showing similarity in personality between identical twins. At least some of that similarity has to be genetic. The critical point in these gene for.. studies is that, if we know what parts of personality that a specific neuropeptide influences, then its genetic variants should predict behavior in a similar fashion.
Various alterations in corresponding genes affect the levels of serotonin or sensitivity to serotonin and may cause behavioral changes. Changes in serotonin level can affect behavior. The level of serotonin is controlled by multiple mechanisms. Any changes in the genes involved may lead to serious consequences. Several genetic alterations in the gene for tryptophan hydroxylase were reported to be associated with suicidal behavior. This enzyme is involved in biosynthesis of serotonin, and therefore its genetic alterations can easily affect the level of this mediator.
Today, modern behavioral geneticists have the same basic goal as Galton: to understand the genetic and environmental contributions to individual variations in behavior. However, current theories support the role of both genes and environment in behavioral outcomes (Robinson, 2004). The genetic components of the behaviors and disorders described in the previous sections are by no means comprehensive. Moreover, genes have also been linked to many other diverse traits and diseases, including addiction (e.g., alcohol and tobacco), handedness, bipolar disorder, depression, and dyslexia.
Some single genes have major consequences for behavior. A single genes usually makes a single protein, or sometimes only a part of a protein (for example, it takes the products of 4 different genes to produce a single acetylcholine receptor/channel). A typical cell expresses ~10,000 different gene products. Virtually any known gene can be expressed in cells and its function studied. Once the sequence of a gene is known the gene can be amplified with PCR or by growing it in bacteria. The gene can then be linked to a promoter and placed into a circular piece of DNA, which is then placed into cells by a variety of methods.
GENES AND BEHAVIOR When we think of behavior, we generally tend to think of some complex humantraits such as criminality, extovertedness, and similar traits that are likely to beaffected by many genes interacting with the environment. There are several types, depending on the gene involved, and alongwith affecting behavior, they also introduce the next topic, phamacogenetics.The best known porhyria is called It occursin about 1 in 50,000 live births so is vary rare. It is an butaffected persons may never know they have it.
Human beings are animals. This is not a reference to our behavior (although, of course, some people do act like animals). It is a reference to the fact that humans are biological creatures, as much as crocodiles, cougars, and capybara. 
In the early years examining the links between genes and personality, it was typical for a study to examine self-reports of personality and compare the self-reports between fraternal twins--who share roughly 50% of their genes--to those of identical twins--who share 100% of their genes. The critical point in these gene for.. studies is that, if we know what parts of personality that a specific neuropeptide influences, then its genetic variants should predict behavior in a similar fashion.
“In some cases, single genes can have surprisingly strong influences on particular aspects of behavior,” said Michael J. Frank, assistant professor of cognitive and linguistic science, psychology, and psychiatry and human behavior. The study examined the effects of three genes that control aspects of dopamine function in the brain while participants performed a computerized decision-making task. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that helps keep the central nervous symptom functioning. Its levels fluctuate as the brain feels motivated or rewarded.
We can not commit to one answer for this complex question. I think that both genes and your surroundings influence your personality, like sociopaths. They develop their antisocial behavior due to their upbringing unlike psychopaths which is the result of a brain legion. We have to take into account the social side of things. The critical point in these gene for.. studies is that, if we know what parts of personality that a specific neuropeptide influences, then its genetic variants should predict behavior in a similar fashion.