The word superstructure is a combination of the Latin prefix, super (meaning above, in addition) with the Latin stem word, structure (meaning to build or to heap up). On a bridge, the portion of the structure that is the span and directly receives the live load is referred to as the superstructure. In contrast, the abutment, piers, and other support structures are called the substructure.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A superstructure is an element of a structure that projects above the baseline. In the case of a building, it is generally the portion of the building located above ground, in contrast with the basement and substructure underground. For boats, it is the area above the main deck. The superstructure is also the highly visible part of a structure. It needs to be clad in protective materials to keep the interior of the structure protected from the weather and may also be decorated to make it more visually interesting.
Superstructure \Su`per*structure\, n. [Cf. F. superstructure.] 1. Any material structure or edifice built on something else; that which is raised on a foundation or basis; esp. (Arch.), all that part of a building above the basement. Also used figuratively. [1913 Webster] You have added to your natural endowments the superstructure of study. --Dryden. 
1 List superstructure construction. 2  2. Describe the methods of superstructure construction. 3  2. 4  SUPERSTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION • Superstructure – building parts located above the ground level such as column, beam, floor, wall and roof. Superstructure construction. 1  1. SUPERSTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION At the end of this topic, students should be able to: 1. 2  2. 3  3. Frame Structure Construction Timber Frame Floor Wall Roof. 4  4. Frame Structure Construction Reinforced Concrete Frame Column & Beam Construction Formwork Design Reinforced Steel Bar Construction Concrete Pouring Formwork 5  .... 5.
1. superstructure-structure consisting of the part of a ship above the main deck. deck-house-a superstructure on the upper deck of a ship. ship-a vessel that carries passengers or freight. 
(ii) Supers1ructure. Sub-structure or Foundation is the lower portion of the building, usually located below the ground level, which transmits the loads of the super-structure to the supporting soil. A foundation is therefore that part of the structure which is in direct contact with the ground to which the loads are transmitted. Super-structure is that part of the structure which is above ground level, and which serves the purpose of its intended use. A part of the super-structure, located between the ground level and (he floor level is known as plinth. 
1 1. SUPERSTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION At the end of this topic, students should be able to: 1. 2  List superstructure construction. 3  2. Describe the methods of superstructure construction. Superstructure construction. 1  1. SUPERSTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION At the end of this topic, students should be able to: 1. 2  2. 3  3. Frame Structure Construction Timber Frame Floor Wall Roof. 4  4. Frame Structure Construction Reinforced Concrete Frame Column & Beam Construction Formwork Design Reinforced Steel Bar Construction Concrete Pouring Formwork 5  .... 5.
Show more usage examples... You may want to rent some office space in a superstructure that may show your clients that you are very serious and successful. 6 people found this helpful. It was time to go to work on the superstructure, which was my favorite part, because we could finally build the top portion of the place. 
The location of the superstructure on an aircraft carrier. As stated above, superstructure consists of the parts of the ship or a boat, including sailboats, fishing boats, passenger ships, and submarines, that project above her main deck. This does not usually include its masts or any armament turrets. On a bridge, the portion of the structure that is the span and directly receives the live load is referred to as the superstructure. In contrast, the abutment, piers, and other support structures are called the substructure.