Joule Unlimited, Inc. was formerly known as Joule Biotechnologies, Inc. and cha... Joule Unlimited, Inc. develops a photosynthetic technology to produce drop-in fuels in a single-step conversion process using waste carbon dioxide (CO2) feedstock and waste brackish water. Company Overview
Joule Unlimited, Inc. was formerly known as Joule Biotechnologies, Inc. and changed its name to Joule Unlimited, Inc. in April 2010. The company was founded in 2007 and is based in Bedford, Massachusetts with a location in The Hague, the Netherlands. It has production operations in Hobbs, New Mexico. Company Overview. Joule Unlimited, Inc. develops a photosynthetic technology to produce drop-in fuels in a single-step conversion process using waste carbon dioxide (CO2) feedstock and waste brackish water.
A startup based in Cambridge, MA– Joule Biotechnologies –today revealed details of a process that it says can make 20,000 gallons of biofuel per acre per year. If this yield proves realistic, it could make it practical to replace all fossil fuels used for transportation with biofuels. If the new process, which has been demonstrated in the laboratory, works as well on a large scale as Joule Biotechnologies expects, it would be a marked change for the biofuel industry.
Joule Unlimited, formerly known as Joule Biotechnologies, is a producer of alternative energy technologies based in Bedford, Massachusetts. The company developed a process to generate hydrocarbon-based fuel by combining non-fresh water, nutrients, cyanobacteria, carbon dioxide, and sunlight. Joule Unlimited claims that its product will be cost competitive with crude oil at $50 a barrel ($310/m 3).
About Joule. We have pioneered a CO 2 -to-fuel production platform, effectively reversing combustion through the use of solar energy. Free of feedstock constraints and complex processing, this platform can achieve unrivaled scalability, volumes and costs without the use of agricultural land, fresh water or crops. Learn More. Engineered bacteria function as catalysts to continuously convert waste CO 2 directly into renewable fuels, including ethanol or hydrocarbons for diesel, jet fuel and gasoline. The process leverages a modular closed system that readily scales through simple replication.
Joule adds CO2 to sunlight to make fuel. Two-year-old Joule Biotechnologies introduces its synthetic biology technology that uses engineered microorganisms to make ethanol from sunlight and carbon dioxide. We recognized that what Joule was really harnessing in going directly from CO2 and sunlight to end product will give you incredibly high efficiency, Berry said, adding that biofuel costs are directly related to the cost of their feedstock.
Joule Biotechnologies. We set out in sort of a 'blue sky' way and asked what would it take to build a fuel operation at full scale, explained David Berry, an investor at Flagship Ventures who co-founded Joule two years ago. Berry is also a co-founder at LS9, another company using synthetic biology to create petroleum fuel replacements. We recognized that what Joule was really harnessing in going directly from CO2 and sunlight to end product will give you incredibly high efficiency, Berry said, adding that biofuel costs are directly related to the cost of their feedstock.
The joule (/ˈdʒuːl/), symbol J, is a derived unit of energy in the International System of Units. It is equal to the energy transferred (or work done) to an object when a force of one newton acts on that object in the direction of its motion through a distance of one metre (1 newton metre or N·m).
Joule Unlimited has not revealed the name of the organism that it uses, although it has acknowledged that the company has modified the organism. In September, 2010, Joule received a patent for genetically altered bacterium. Joule Unlimited claims that its product will be cost competitive with crude oil at $50 a barrel ($310/m 3).
Joule Biotechnologies grows genetically engineered microorganisms in specially designed photobioreactors. The microorganisms use energy from the sun to convert carbon dioxide and water into ethanol or hydrocarbon fuels (such as diesel or components of gasoline). If the new process, which has been demonstrated in the laboratory, works as well on a large scale as Joule Biotechnologies expects, it would be a marked change for the biofuel industry.