Some types of HPV can cause changes in the cells of the cervix or the lining of the mouth and throat. They are known as high risk HPVs. Doctors call these cell changes dysplasia. The changed cells have an increased risk of becoming cancerous. Other types of HPV can cause warts and verrucas. These types of HPV are sometimes called the wart virus or genital wart virus and they include types 6 and 11. Warts and verrucas are most common on the hands and feet, in the genital area and around the anus. But they can be on any part of the body.
Common ones include warts, precancerous lesions, and cervical cancer. HPV stands for human papillomavirus. These viruses are the direct causes of HPV and infect the skin or mucous membranes (mucous membranes are the moist, inner lining of some organs and body cavities, such as the nose, mouth, lungs, and stomach). There are actually over 100 different types of HPV. Most are harmless; however, several types can cause precancerous growths or even cancer. About 30 types of HPV are spread through sexual contact, making it one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
HPV can cause cervical and other cancers including cancer of the vulva, vagina, penis, or anus. It can also cause cancer in the back of the throat, including the base of the tongue and tonsils (called oropharyngeal cancer). Cancer often takes years, even decades, to develop after a person gets HPV. HPV is so common that nearly all sexually active men and women get it at some point in their lives. There are many different types of HPV. Some types can cause health problems including genital warts and cancers. But there are vaccines that can stop these health problems from happening.
HPV is a different virus than HIV and HSV (herpes). HPV is so common that nearly all sexually active men and women get it at some point in their lives. There are many different types of HPV. Some types can cause health problems including genital warts and cancers. But there are vaccines that can stop these health problems from happening.
In most cases, HPV goes away on its own and does not cause any health problems. But when HPV does not go away, it can cause health problems like genital warts and cancer. Genital warts usually appear as a small bump or group of bumps in the genital area. HPV is so common that nearly all sexually active men and women get it at some point in their lives. There are many different types of HPV. Some types can cause health problems including genital warts and cancers. But there are vaccines that can stop these health problems from happening.
There are over 100 different kinds of HPV and not all of them cause health problems. Some kinds of HPV may cause problems like genital warts. Some kinds of HPV can also cause cancer of the cervix, vagina, vulva, or anus. Most of these problems are caused by types 6, 11, 16 or 18. HPV (human papillomavirus) is a sexually transmitted virus. It is passed on through genital contact (such as vaginal and anal sex). It is also passed on by skin-to-skin contact. At least 50% of people who have had sex will have HPV at some time in their lives.
1 Some types of HPV may cause genital warts. 2  These are called low-risk types of HPV. 3  Some types of HPV may cause cell changes that sometimes lead to cervical cancer and certain other genital and throat cancers. 4  These are called high-risk types. 5  This page discusses these high-risk types. 1 Most HPV infections have no harmful effect at all. 2  Some types of HPV may cause genital warts. 3  These are called low-risk types of HPV. 4
HPV types 6 and 11 are the etiological cause genital warts. Persistent infection with high-risk HPV types—different from the ones that cause skin warts—may progress to precancerous lesions and invasive cancer. High-risk HPV infection is a cause of nearly all cases of cervical cancer. HPV types that tend to cause genital warts are not those that cause cervical cancer. Since an individual can be infected with multiple types of HPV, the presence of warts does not rule out the possibility of high-risk types of the virus also being present.