The Mexican flag is a tri-color of green (next to staff), white (center), and red. On the white field is the coat-of-arms of Mexico: the eagle above the cactus with a serpent in its beak. The flag of the 1821 era is sometimes represented with the coat-of-arms enclosed by a wreath of laurel and oak. 
Present Mexico: Green Hope, White Union, Red Blood of the Heroes. The golden eagle on the Mexican flag represents the Mexican people; as the eagle is always prepared for the challenges and the combat so are the Mexican people. The snake on the Mexican flag that the eagle is devouring represents all of the Mexican enemies.
The Mexican flag consists of: three colors (green, white and red), and the Mexican Coat of Arms (the Mexican golden eagle perched upon a prickly pear cactus devouring a snake. The golden eagle on the Mexican flag represents the Mexican people; as the eagle is always prepared for the challenges and the combat so are the Mexican people. The snake on the Mexican flag that the eagle is devouring represents all of the Mexican enemies.
Symbolism of the Mexican Flag The symbolism of the three colors of the Mexican flag is also best explained in light of Mexican history. Originally a colony of Spain, Mexico finally gained it’s independence in the 19th century. The color green was chosen for the flag to represent independence from Spain. In the middle of the Mexican flag between the green and red stripes is a picture of an eagle holding a snake in its mouth hand right claw. The Left claw of the eagle is resting upon a cactus plant which in turn is situated in a lake.
The flag of Mexico has three vertical stripes on it; green, white and red. The Eagle in the Mexican Flag In the middle of the Mexican flag between the green and red stripes is a picture of an eagle holding a snake in its mouth hand right claw. The Left claw of the eagle is resting upon a cactus plant which in turn is situated in a lake.
Flag of New Mexico. The colors on New Mexico's state flag are the red and yellow of old Spain. The simple, elegant center design is the ancient Zia sun symbol, which represents the unique character of New Mexico (Zia sun symbol also appears on New Mexico's state quarter).
The prophesy and subsequent vision is now immortalized in Mexico's coat of arms and on the Mexican flag. 1  Green: was a sign of independence from Spain. 2  White: Religion, faith or belief, the Roman Catholic faith. 3  Red: Union among Americans and Europeans. 4  Green: Hope in the future. 5  White: Unity among the Mexican people. White: represents the purity of catholic faith. Red: the col … or of blood. With the inclusion of this color on their flag, Mexican people pay a tribute to those who died during the terrible war for independence.
The middle band, colored white, contains the National Mexican Crest, a symbol that is very important to Mexican people. The Mexican flag colors are three: green, white and red. Green: represents hope for a better nation, where people join together to achieve and maintain peace between them. White: represents the purity of catholic faith. Red: the color of blood. 
Mexican flag symbolizes the greatest things of the Mexican people. The Mexican flag consists of: three colors (green, white and red), and the Mexican Coat of Arms (the Mexican golden eagle perched upon a prickly pear cactus devouring a snake. The cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake). The golden eagle on the Mexican flag represents the Mexican people; as the eagle is always prepared for the challenges and the combat so are the Mexican people. The snake on the Mexican flag that the eagle is devouring represents all of the Mexican enemies.
The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984. Red, white, and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico. The central emblem is the Mexican coat of arms, based on the Aztec symbol for Tenochtitlan (now Mexico City), the center of the Aztec empire. It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island. Sole article:... the national flag and flags of the army shall be tricolor, adopting forever the colors green, white and encarnado [flesh-colored red] arranged vertically, with the crowned eagle in the center of the white stripe, according the following design.