Well-preserved wall paintings and carvings have been discovered on tombs and temples, depicting large feasts and a variety of foods. Many of these ancient foods are still eaten in Egyptian households today. Peas, beans, cucumbers, dates, figs, and grapes were popular fruits and vegetables in ancient times. Wheat and barley, ancient staple crops, were used to make bread and beer. Fish and poultry were also popular. Dried fish was prepared by cleaning the fish, coating the pieces with salt, and placing them the sun to dry. Fasieekh (salted, dried fish) remained a popular meal in Egypt as of 2000. 
Amir Atiatalla. Not a lot of people know that Egypt is not only famous for its ancient monuments, culture and revolution, but it is also famous for its great food. Egyptian food is a mixture of all the different civilizations that came to Egypt in the history of its existence. Nowhere in the world will you be able to taste so many cultures in one plate. Below is a list of the most delicious and popular dishes served up in Egypt today. 10. Kushari. Considered to be the Egyptian national dish, it consists of pasta and tomato sauce, among other items, including rice, lentils, caramelized onions, garlic and chickpeas. Having four sources of carbohydrates has made it the most popular lunch item in most common food outlets in Egypt for over 100 years
Traditional Food in Egypt. In the Egyptian diet, bread carries a lot of importance. Eaten with almost every meal, the rural or working class Egyptian meal will often consist of beans and bread. The favorite form of bread in Egypt is actually a type of thick pita bread. Dishes in Egypt. Popular Dishes in Egypt. 1  Bram Rice-This dish is rice made with milk and served stuffed with chicken liver. 2  Torly-This is a plate of potatoes, carrots, baked squash, onions and tomato sauce. 3  Ruz Meammar-This is a dish of rice made with milk, cream, butter and chicken broth.
Like the drinks and the desserts, the foods chosen can be found all over Egypt north to south, how heavy or different they are depends largely on which region you are in the country. Each region adds its own unique flavour or twist to the recipe. Bon Appetite. 1. Ful wa Ta’meya (Fava Beans and Falafel): Ful mudammas and Ta’meya are the original Egyptian fast food; they are a staple of the Egyptian diet. The ful (pronounced: fool) is made of fava beans that are simmered all night in a massive round cauldron-looking pot called Qedra.
Koshary - (Also known as Kushari) Considered one of the most famous dishes of Egypt, this vegetarian meal contains rice, spaghetti, macaroni, black lentils, chick peas, garlic, and is topped with a spicy tomato sauce (sometimes Chilli sauce) and fried onions. Around the Egyptian coast you will find more fish in the meals. The Egyptian Bread Aish also forms part of most of the meals. Did you know that Aish is the Egyptian word for bread and also means life. Also, if you find there is no cutlery, it is common to use your bread to spoon the food.
By Islam El Shazly. The Egyptian cuisine is not very fancy; it is not as elaborate as French or Italian cuisine and not as heavy as some of the food in the Arabian Gulf, it also doesn’t rely on a massive amount of spices. 1. Ful wa Ta’meya (Fava Beans and Falafel): Ful mudammas and Ta’meya are the original Egyptian fast food; they are a staple of the Egyptian diet. The ful (pronounced: fool) is made of fava beans that are simmered all night in a massive round cauldron-looking pot called Qedra.
Goz (nuts) and mohamas (dried seeds) are popular snack foods in Egypt, and vendors can be found selling them nearly anywhere. All are tasty; try bundok (hazelnuts), loz (almonds), or fuzdo (pistachios). If you like peanuts, the ful sudani are especially tasty in Aswan. Besides the traditional Egyptian food that can be found in many establishments there are also many restaurants serving Italian and French food, which are quite popular amongst the upper-middle and elite classes. The more globalised the world becomes the more cuisines enter Egypt.
Food in Cairo, Egypt. Cairo is considered to be one of the largest cities in both the Middle East and Africa. It is the capital of Egypt and a famous tourist destination for adventurous travelers and historians alike. The Giza Pyramids are right outside of the town, and the Egyptian Museum is in the center. The Sphinx and the Citadel are two other popular tourist attractions. When it comes to eating in Egypt, traditional food can be found everywhere. Traditional Egyptian Cuisine. One traditional meal is the kebob. Eating Out. When it comes to dining in Cairo, visitors have a number of choices to make. There are restaurants that serve traditional Egyptian cuisine, and restaurants that serve foods that are popular outside of the country.
Most common of art works are about growing, finding or making food. Many tomb walls also show pictures depicting people hunting, fishing and working in the fields. Here is a list of top 10 popular ancient Egyptian food that people in the ancient Egypt preferred eating in their daily lives. 6. Though not as widely popular as other food products that used to be made from fruits (namely beer and wine), fruit juice was also enjoyed by a number of people back in the ancient Egypt. Citrusy fruits which had a sweetening taste were primarily used to be consumed as juice.