Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce. Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection. The symptoms of an infection depend on the type of disease. Some signs of infection affect the whole body generally, such as fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, fevers, night sweats, chills, aches and pains. Others are specific to individual body parts, such as skin rashes, coughing, or a runny nose.
Microbes and disease. A few harmful microbes, for example less than 1 % of bacteria, can invade our body (the host) and make us ill. Microbes cause infectious diseases such as flu and measles. There is also strong evidence that microbes may contribute to many non–infectious chronic diseases such as some forms of cancer and coronary heart disease. Different diseases are caused by different types of micro-organisms
Infections are caused by infectious agents including viruses, viroids, prions, bacteria, nematodes such as parasitic roundworms and pinworms, arthropods such as ticks, mites, fleas, and lice, fungi such as ringworm, and other macroparasites such as tapeworms and other helminths. The symptoms of an infection depend on the type of disease. Some signs of infection affect the whole body generally, such as fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, fevers, night sweats, chills, aches and pains. Others are specific to individual body parts, such as skin rashes, coughing, or a runny nose.
Infectious diseases are the invasion of a host organism by a foreign replicator, generally microorganisms, often called microbes, that are invisible to the naked eye. Microbes that cause illness are also known as pathogens. The most common pathogens are various bacteria and viruses, though a number of other microorganisms, including some kinds of fungi and protozoa, also cause disease. An infectious disease is termed contagious if it is easily transmitted from one person to another.
1 A pathogen is a micro-organism that has the potential to cause disease. 2  An infection is the invasion and multiplication of pathogenic microbes in an individual or population. 3  Disease is when the infection causes damage to the individual’s vital functions or systems. Microbes cause infectious diseases such as flu and measles. There is also strong evidence that microbes may contribute to many non–infectious chronic diseases such as some forms of cancer and coronary heart disease.
1 Bacteria can live in animals and in the environment. 2  Not all bacteria cause disease. 3  People and animals have bacteria living on and in them that do not cause disease. 4  Examples of diseases in animals caused by bacteria are anthrax, blackquarter and tuberculosis. Many different microbes can cause disease in animals, but there are four main types: Viruses. 1  Viruses are the smallest of all microbes. 2  They must live inside cells in order to survive and breed. 3  Viruses cause about 60 % of disease outbreaks in animals and humans.
Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites and can spread between individuals. 1  Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites. 2  Microorganisms that cause disease are collectively called pathogens. 
Sallam... Pathogenic organisms cause infection and disease by feeding off the host and making them weak and by reproducing extremely fast inside the host destroying the cells. They also carry bacteria that makes us sick.. 
An organism that a microbe infects is known as the host for that microbe. In the human host, a microorganism causes disease by either disrupting a vital body process or stimulating the immune system to mount a defensive reaction. The most common pathogens are various bacteria and viruses, though a number of other microorganisms, including some kinds of fungi and protozoa, also cause disease. An infectious disease is termed contagious if it is easily transmitted from one person to another.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staph bacteria that is resistant to certain antibiotics called beta-lactams. These antibiotics include methicillin and other more common antibiotics such as oxacillin, penicillin, and amoxicillin. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections. Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Pseudomonas infection is caused by strains of bacteria found widely in the environment; the most common type causing infections in humans is called Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Serious Pseudomonas infections usually occur in people in the hospital and/or with weakened immune systems.