Restriction Enzymes. Restriction enzymes are DNA-cutting enzymes found in bacteria (and harvested from them for use). Because they cut within the molecule, they are often called restriction endonucleases. In order to be able to sequence DNA, it is first necessary to cut it into smaller fragments. 
Restriction enzymes or to use their correct name, restriction endonucleases, are a type of enzyme which have the ability to cut molecules of DNA. They are often referred to as genetic scissors. Restriction enzymes are also frequently used to verify the identity of a specific DNA fragment, based on the known restriction enzyme sites sequence that it contains. An extremely important use of restriction enzymes has been in the generation of recombinant DNA molecules.
Restriction enzyme. Like all enzymes, a restriction enzyme works by shape-to-shape matching. When it comes into contact with a DNA sequence with a shape that matches a part of the enzyme, called the recognition site, it wraps around the DNA and causes a break in both strands of the DNA molecule. In the laboratory, restriction enzymes (or restriction endonucleases) are used to cut DNA into smaller fragments. The cuts are always made at specific nucleotide sequences. Different restriction enzymes recognise and cut different DNA
The natural use of restriction enzymes by bacteria is to destroy viral DNA. Enzymes used to cut genes in recombinant DNA research are restriction enzymes. Restriction enzymes are used to cut up DNA into fragments with 'sticky ends'. It allows for the gene of interest to be isolated. A plasmid can then also be cut with the same r … estriction enzyme and the sticky ends are spliced together with DNA ligase.
When a restriction enzyme cleaves a restriction site, the reaction creates highly reactive sticky ends on the broken DNA. This is useful to the biotechnologist! By cutting open vector DNA with the same with restriction enzymes used to cleave the target DNA, complementary sticky ends are created. A restriction enzyme is a protein that recognizes a specific, short nucleotide sequence and cuts the DNA only at that specific site, which is known as restriction site or target sequence. More than 400 restriction enzymes have been isolated from the bacteria that manufacture them
The use of restriction enzymes as a tool for recombining, or joining, different DNA fragments was first illustrated in yet another classic paper, this time by Stanford University researchers Janet Mertz and Ronald Davis (Mertz & Davis, 1972). Figure Detail. The use of restriction enzymes as a way to cut DNA molecules was first demonstrated in a classic study by Johns Hopkins biochemist Daniel Nathans and his graduate student Kathleen Danna (Danna & Nathans, 1971).
It's a type of immunity that bacteria utilize to fight off phage (viral) infection. They enzymes cut specific sequences in DNA that are found in the phage but not in the bacteria. Scientists have used restriction enzymes for decades for cloning purposes. They're great because they're very specific and it's easy to recreate their optimal conditions for activity in a test tube. Franklin · 6 years ago