It's gotten to the point where [the certified pre-owned car] is a legitimate third type of vehicle, said Tom Kontos, vice president for industry relations and analytical services at Adesa Corp., an Indianapolis-based global vehicle re-marketing firm. It gives the retailer a third opportunity to sell a car. The second-hand automobile didn't come with a warranty, let alone a manufacturer's seal of approval. And there certainly weren't any cut-rate financial incentives to entice the unfortunate used-car shopper. But times have changed. Today, the era of the manufacturer certified pre-owned vehicle is in full swing. In fact, some experts say CPO is now a legitimate third automobile category, joining traditional stalwarts new and used
There are variations as to what is termed certified pre-owned, so the distinctions are important. Manufacturer (or factory) CPO vehicles are only sold at authorized dealers specializing in that particular franchise. Factory CPO cars are generally five years old or newer and have less than 80,000 miles. They often cost more than vehicles certified by independent authorities, and are higher priced than a non-certified used vehicle. Independent programs can represent good value and an alternative to an OEM program.
A Certified Pre-Owned (CPO) car is a used car that has been inspected and certified, often by the manufacturer. This process offers the buyer peace of mind regarding the history and condition of their vehicle, and allows manufacturers and dealers to maximize profit and build brand loyalty. Then a Certified Pre-Owned (CPO) car may be the choice for you. Better than used but not quite new; these manufacturer backed programs are designed to bring a little peace of mind to the used car buying process and ownership.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A certified pre-owned car or CPO is a type of used car. Most often late-model, they differ from other used cars by having been inspected, refurbished, and certified by a manufacturer or other certifying authority. They also typically include an extended warranty, special financing, and additional benefits. Factory CPO cars are generally five years old or newer and have less than 80,000 miles. They often cost more than vehicles certified by independent authorities, and are higher priced than a non-certified used vehicle. Independent programs can represent good value and an alternative to an OEM program.
You have the factory standing behind the certified pre-owned car, plus you'll be buying a car that the original manufacturer has inspected to ensure that it is worthy of certification. The only downside to certified pre-owned cars is that they are generally more expensive than other used cars. Not all used cars can qualify for certified pre-owned programs, and terms vary from one brand to the next, but any true certified pre-owned program will include at least a 100-point inspection of the car. If problems are found, the factory-trained technicians will fix it or disqualify the car from the program.
Certified Pre-Owned Cars. Make sure you get the best deal on your certified used vehicle. Certified pre-owned cars can offer the best of buying a new and used vehicle. They allow you to avoid the massive depreciation that affects new vehicles while still purchasing a relatively lightly-used car in good condition. 
According to a recent J.D. Power and Associates study, sales of certified used cars have increased 46 percent since 2000. For many people, certified used cars have become affordable alternatives to new cars. By certified used or certified pre-owned, we mean used cars that are offered for sale by your local dealer and feature warranties that extend beyond the initial when new coverage. To qualify for our definition of a certified used vehicle, the warranty must be backed by the original vehicle manufacturer. Not all used cars can qualify for certified pre-owned programs, and terms vary from one brand to the next, but any true certified pre-owned program will include at least a 100-point inspection of the car. If problems are found, the factory-trained technicians will fix it or disqualify the car from the program.
Certified Pre-Owned Cars Overview. Certified Pre-Owned (CPO) cars are essentially top-quality, inspected used cars backed by manufacturers' warranties. You may have noticed that many vehicles formerly known as used are now termed Certified Pre-Owned or CPO.. These programs originated in the Luxury... 