Most sore throats are caused by viral infections, such as a cold or flu. Often you’ll have other symptoms like a runny or stuffy nose, sneezing, cough, a mild fever, and fatigue. It can be hard to tell the difference between a cold and flu, but the flu tends to cause worse symptoms, like high fever and muscle aches. If your sore throat is from a virus, antibiotics won’t help. Instead, gargle with warm salt water and use over-the-counter treatments like lozenges and sprays
1 Bacterial infection: A less common cause of sore throat, a bacterial infection can lead to strep throat, peritonsillar abscess, retropharyngeal abscess, diphtheria, epiglottitis, and tonsillitis. 2  Certain sexually transmitted diseases (STD 's), such as gonorrhea and chlamydia, also can rarely cause a sore throat. 1 Medical conditions such as postnasal drip, allergies, cough, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and tumors can cause a sore throat. 2  The intentional or unintentional ingestion of certain substances (for example, bleach)
Bacteria: Strep throat is an infection caused by a particular strain of streptococcus bacteria. This infection can also damage the heart valves (rheumatic fever) and kidneys (nephritis), cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, and ear infections. Tumors of the throat, tongue, and larynx (voice box) can cause a sore throat with pain radiating to the ear and/or difficulty swallowing. Other important symptoms can include hoarseness, noisy breathing, a lump in the neck, unexplained weight loss, and/or spitting up blood in the saliva or phlegm.
1 Most sore throats are caused by viruses or mechanical causes (such as mouth breathing) and can be treated successfully at home. 2  Sore throat symptoms include pain, burning or scratching sensations at the back of the throat, pain when swallowing, and tenderness in the neck. 3  Sore throat symptoms may be accompanied by: 1 Share Your Story. 2  Most sore throats are caused by viruses or mechanical causes (such as mouth breathing) and can be treated successfully at home. 3
For other uses, see Sore throat (disambiguation) . A sore throat (or throat pain) is pain or irritation of the throat. A common physical symptom, it is usually caused by acute pharyngitis (inflammation of the throat), although it can also appear as a result of trauma, diphtheria, or other conditions. 
Because strep throat is a common cause of sore throats, your doctor may swab the back of your throat and examine the sample for the Streptococcal bacteria. He or she may also run a blood test to determine whether you have a viral or bacterial infection. The majority of sore throats are triggered by a viral infection. These are infections caused by a virus, such as the cold and flu. Other types of viral infections include: 1  mononucleosis: infectious disease typically transmitted through saliva. 2  measles: contagious illnesses characterized by a distinct rash and fever
Fortunately, most sore throats are caused by a minor illness and go away without medical treatment. Several conditions can cause a sore throat. Sore throats may be caused by a viral illness, such as: 1  The common cold, the most common type of viral infection. 2  Infection of the voice box (laryngitis). 3  Mononucleosis (mono, the kissing disease), a viral infection that tends to cause a persistent sore throat. A bacterial infection may also cause a sore throat. This can occur from: 1  Strep throat, which usually does not occur with congestion or a cough. 2  An inflammation or infection of the tonsils (tonsillitis) and sometimes the adenoids (adenoiditis). 3  An infection of the tissues around the tonsils (peritonsillar abscess).