1 A benign (noncancerous) condition in which an overgrowth of prostate tissue pushes against the urethra and the bladder, blocking the flow of urine. 2  Increase in constituent cells in the prostate, leading to enlargement of the organ (hypertrophy) and adverse impact on the lower urinary tract function. 1 Increase in constituent cells in the prostate, leading to enlargement of the organ (hypertrophy) and adverse impact on the lower urinary tract function. 2  This can be caused by increased rate of cell proliferation, reduced rate of cell death, or both.
Treatment of prostate cancer cases of prostate cancer trilobar hypertrophy of the prostate definition is confirmed to removed by the prostate gland: 1) palpable nodules and advantages and this is often have some problems later. 
Transurethral Resection of the Prostate (TURP) for Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia. Guide. During transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), an instrument is inserted up the urethra to remove the section of the prostate that is blocking urine flow. TURP usually requires a stay in the hospital. It is done using a general or spinal anesthetic
An enlarged prostate is a condition in which your prostate is increased in size. This is common when you reach your 50s. It is also called the non-cancer growth of prostate gl … and. Researches have noticed that 50 % of males experience the symptoms of benign enlarged prostate when they reach their 60s. The role of the prostate is to produce a liquid that mixes with semen and helps the sperm move through the semen into the woman's body. When a prostate becomes enlarged, it … can effect the production of the fluid.
Biopsy of the prostate: A medical test that involves removing a tissue sample from the prostate so it can be examined for the presence of cancer. A biopsy of the prostate is done with the help of a transrectal ultrasound. Testosterone: The male hormone, or androgen, which is important to the prostate and is essential for sex drive and fertility. It is also responsible for male characteristics such as postpuberty body hair and deepening of the voice. A major goal of prostate cancer treatment is to lower testosterone levels.
BPH is completely benign. It is not a precursor (a forerunner) to prostate cancer. Treatment of BPH is usually reserved for men with significant symptoms. Watchful waiting with medical monitoring once a year is appropriate for most men with BPH. The medical therapy of BPH includes medication.
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) : Benign prostatic hyperplasia, or enlargement of the prostate, is a benign condition that occurs in most older men. The prostate tissue begins to grow around the urethra, gradually compressing it and hindering urine flow. Testosterone: The male hormone, or androgen, which is important to the prostate and is essential for sex drive and fertility. It is also responsible for male characteristics such as postpuberty body hair and deepening of the voice. A major goal of prostate cancer treatment is to lower testosterone levels.
Prostate enlargement: Most prostatic enlargement is due to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a problem that bothers men increasingly with advancing age. The process of BPH generally begins in a man's 30s, evolves very slowly and usually causes symptoms only after he has passed the half-century mark. It is not a precursor (a forerunner) to prostate cancer. Treatment of BPH is usually reserved for men with significant symptoms. Watchful waiting with medical monitoring once a year is appropriate for most men with BPH. The medical therapy of BPH includes medication.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), also called benign enlargement of the prostate (BEP or BPE), adenofibromyomatous hyperplasia and benign prostatic hypertrophy (technically incorrect usage), is a benign increase in size of the prostate. BPH involves hyperplasia of prostatic stromal and epithelial cells, resulting in the formation of large, fairly discrete nodules in the transition zone of the prostate. When sufficiently large, the nodules impinge on the urethra and increase resistance to flow of urine from the bladder