Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a condition in which a hole in the diaphragm allows abdominal organs to move into the chest, which prevents the lungs from developing normally, resulting in pulmonary hypoplasia. Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is an extremely complex condition that requires delicate care and comprehensive management by an experienced team. At Children's Hospital, you'll find a rare continuity of care, from prenatal management to expert surgical repair and a dedicated follow-up program.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a congenital malformation (birth defect) of the diaphragm. The most common type of CDH is a Bochdalek hernia; other types include Morgagni hernia, diaphragm eventration and central tendon defects of the diaphragm. Malformation of the diaphragm allows the abdominal organs to push into the chest cavity, hindering proper lung formation. CDH is a life-threatening pathology in infants, and a major cause of death due to two complications: pulmonary hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension. Experts disagree on the relative importance of these two conditions, with some focusing on hypoplasia, others on hypertension
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) occurs when a hole in the diaphragm muscle — the muscle that separates the chest from the abdomen — fails to close during prenatal development, and the contents from the abdomen (stomach, intestines and/or liver) migrate into the chest through this hole. (Left) The diaphragm is a sheet of flat muscle that separates the heart and lungs from the abdominal cavity. (Right) In CDH, a hole in the diaphragm allows abdominal organs to move into the chest and restrict lung development. © CHOP/CFDT.
CDH. Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia. Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia (CDH) occurs when the diaphragm fails to form or to close totally and an opening allows abdominal organs into the chest cavity. This inhibits lung growth. 
Congenital diaphragmatic (dye-ah-fra-mat-ick) hernia is an opening in the diaphragm, which is the muscle separating the chest from the abdomen (see illustration at right). This hole allows the contents that would normally be in the abdomen to push up into the chest cavity. 
Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia (CDH) occurs in approximately 1 in every 2,500 births (1,600 cases in the U.S. each year). The cause of CDH is not yet known. The diaphragm is formed in the first trimester of pregnancy and controls the lungs' ability to inhale and exhale. CDH occurs when the diaphragm fails to form or to close totally and an opening allows abdominal organs into the chest cavity. This inhibits lung growth. Every patient diagnosed with CDH is different.
Every baby with CDH is different-like a snowflake, no two are alike. What works for one baby, may not work for another. There is no reliable indicator to predict if a baby will do well or not. Babies with no diaphragm and little lung sometimes do well, while babies with 2 full lungs can sometimes do poorly. The diaphragm is formed in the first trimester of pregnancy and controls the lungs' ability to inhale and exhale. CDH occurs when the diaphragm fails to form or to close totally and an opening allows abdominal organs into the chest cavity. This inhibits lung growth. Every patient diagnosed with CDH is different.
CDH is the abbreviated name for Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia. ‘Congenital’ means born with, ‘Diaphragmatic’ means of or affecting the diaphragm; which is a thin sheet of muscle that helps us to breath and keeps our chest and stomach contents separate. ‘Hernia’ is a general term used to describe a ‘bulge’ or ‘protrusion’ of an organ, for example the stomach, through the structure or muscle that usually contains it. CDH occurs in approximately 1 in 2500 births and accounts for around 8% of all major congenital abnormalities.
Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia (CDH) Internal Abdominal View. (Left) The diaphragm is a sheet of flat muscle that separates the heart and lungs from the abdominal cavity. (Right) In CDH, a hole in the diaphragm allows abdominal organs to move into the chest and restrict lung development. © CHOP/CFDT.