The atlas and axis vertebrae are the two most superior bones in the vertebral column. They are part of the seven cervical vertebrae. The atlas is the top-most bone, sitting just below the skull; it is followed by the axis. Together, they support the skull, facilitate neck movement, and protect the spinal cord. The atlas and axis in particular work with the ligaments to move the neck. The atlas and the occipital bone form the atlanto-occipital joint, which allows neck flexion. When you nod your head as if to say yes, that is neck flexion. The atlas and axis form the atlanto-axial joint, which allows head rotation.
The skeletal system supports and protects the body while giving it shape and form. This system is composed of connective tissues including bone, cartilage, tendons, and ligaments. Nutrients are provided to this system through blood vessels that are contained within canals in bone. The skeleton is composed of fibrous and mineralized connective tissues that give it firmness and flexibility. It consists of bone, cartilage, tendons, joints, and ligaments. Bones are a major component of the skeletal system. Bones that comprise the human skeleton are divided into two groups.
The human skeleton consists of 206 bones and is divided into two parts: the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton. The axial skeleton consists of the bones found around the axis (the imaginary midline of the body) and includes the skull, vertebral column, sternum, and ribs. The appendicular skeleton refers to the bones associated with the appendages and includes the bones in the arms, shoulders, legs, and hips (figure 2.3).
The axial skeleton is the part of the skeleton that consists of the bones of the head and trunk of a vertebrate. This article mainly deals with the axial skeletons of humans; however, it is important to understand the evolutionary lineage of the axial skeleton. The human axial skeleton consists of 80 different bones. It is the medial core of the body and connects the pelvis to the body, where the appendix skeleton attaches.
The skeletal system includes all of the bones and joints in the body. Each bone is a complex living organ that is made up of many cells, protein fibers, and minerals. The skeleton acts as a scaffold by providing support and protection for the soft tissues that make up the rest of the body. The skeletal system also provides attachment points for muscles to allow movements at the joints. New blood cells are produced by the red bone marrow inside of our bones.
In the human skeleton, it consists of 80 bones and is composed of eight parts; the skull bones, the ossicles of the middle ear, the hyoid bone, the rib cage, sternum and the vertebral column. The axial skeleton together with the appendicular skeleton form the complete skeleton. Another definition of axial skeleton is the bones including the vertebrae, sacrum, coccyx, ribs, and sternum. This article mainly deals with the axial skeletons of humans; however, it is important to understand the evolutionary lineage of the axial skeleton. The human axial skeleton consists of 80 different bones. It is the medial core of the body and connects the pelvis to the body, where the appendix skeleton attaches.
The ligaments in the spine support and reinforce the joints between the vertebrae. The atlas and axis in particular work with the ligaments to move the neck. The atlas and the occipital bone form the atlanto-occipital joint, which allows neck flexion. When you nod your head as if to say yes, that is neck flexion. The atlas and axis form the atlanto-axial joint, which allows head rotation.
consisting of the bones that lie around the longitudinal axis of the human body, an imaginary vertical line that runs through the body's center of gravity from the head to the space between the feet: skull bones, auditory ossicles (ear bones), hyoid bone, ribs, sternum (breastbone), and bones of the vertebral column. 
The adult human skeleton usually consists of 206 named bones. These bones can be grouped in two divisions: axial skeleton and appendicular skeleton. The 80 bones of the axial skeleton form the vertical axis of the body. They include the bones of the head, vertebral column, ribs and breastbone or sternum. The appendicular skeleton consists of 126 bones and includes the free appendages and their attachments to the axial skeleton
The axial skeleton is made up of the bones that form the axis of the body: the skull, the sternum, the ribs and the vertebral column. Axial skeleton bones protect and support the vital organs of the head, neck and trunk, including the brain/spinal cord, heart and lungs. The four major parts of the axial skeleton are listed below. The Skull The Sternum The Ribs The Vertebral Column.