AKI is a syndrome that results in a sudden decrease in kidney function or kidney damage within a few hours or few days. AKI is common in patients who are in the hospital especially in the elderly and those in intensive care units (ICU). AKI causes a build-up of waste products in your blood and makes it hard for your kidneys to keep a balance of fluid in your body. This can also affect other organs such as the brain, heart, and lungs. AKI is found through simple blood and urine tests. AKI can lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD), or even kidney failure needing dialysis (end-stage kidney disease). It may also lead to heart disease or death. 
Acute kidney injury (AKI) has now replaced the term acute renal failure and an universal definition and staging system has been proposed to allow earlier detection and management of AKI. The new terminology enables healthcare professionals to consider the disease as a spectrum of injury. 
Background. Acute kidney injury (AKI)—or acute renal failure (ARF), as it was previously termed—is defined as an abrupt or rapid decline in renal filtration function. This condition is usually marked by a rise in serum creatinine concentration or by azotemia (a rise in blood urea nitrogen [BUN] concentration). 
Abstract. The previous conventional wisdom that survivors of acute kidney injury (AKI) tend to do well and fully recover renal function appears to be flawed. AKI can cause end-stage renal disease (ESRD) directly, and increase the risk of developing incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) and worsening of underlying CKD. Introduction. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is responsible for approximately 2 million deaths annually worldwide. AKI is increasingly common in critically ill patients, and those patients with the most severe form of AKI, requiring renal replacement therapy, have a mortality rate of 50–80%.
Acute kidney injury (AKI), previously called acute renal failure (ARF), is an abrupt loss of kidney function that develops within 7 days. Its causes are numerous. AKI may lead to a number of complications, including metabolic acidosis, high potassium levels, uremia, changes in body fluid balance, and effects on other organ systems, including death. People who have experienced AKI may have an increased risk of chronic kidney disease in the future.
Introduction. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is sudden damage to the kidneys that causes them to stop working properly. It can range from minor loss of kidney function to complete kidney failure. AKI is common and normally happens as a complication of another serious illness. It is not the result of a physical blow to the kidneys, as the name may suggest.
5. The older term is 'acute renal failure' (ARF). Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a rapid deterioration of renal function, resulting in inability to maintain fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance. It is detected and monitored by serial serum creatinine readings primarily, which rise acutely