Anterior cingulate cortex can further be divided in the perigenual anterior cingulate cortex (near the genu) and midcingulate cortex. The anterior cingulate cortex receives primarily its afferent axons from the intralaminar and midline thalamic nuclei (see thalamus). Dorsally is the granular area 31. The posterior cingulate cortex receives a great part of its afferent axons from the superficial nucleus (or nucleus superior-falsely LD-) of the thalamus (see thalamus), which itself receives axons from the subiculum.
Dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) is a brain region that subserves cognition and motor control, but the mechanisms of these functions remain unknown. Human neuroimaging and monkey electrophysiology studies have provided valuable insights, but it has been difficult to link the two literatures. It refers to the same cortical region that has been called the anterior cingulate cognitive division (ACcd) (1), rostral cingulate zone (9), or midcingulate cortex (3). The dACC ROI is indicated in aqua on the coronal slice enlargement (Subject 1, Lower Left). Coronal slices are shown for subjects 2 and 3.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is the frontal part of the cingulate cortex that resembles a collar surrounding the frontal part of the corpus callosum. It consists of Brodmann areas 24, 32, and 33. It appears to play a role in a wide variety of autonomic functions, such as regulating blood pressure and heart rate. It is also involved in rational cognitive functions, such as reward anticipation, decision-making, empathy, impulse control, and emotion.
The anterior cingulate cortex contains cells known as spindle neurons, which also have been found in the ACC and frontoinsular cortex of humans and other hominids (great apes), as well as in humpback whales, killer whales and sperm whales. It includes both the ventral and dorsal areas of the cingulate cortex, and appears to play a role in a wide variety of autonomic functions, such as regulating blood pressure and heart rate, as well as rational cognitive functions, such as reward anticipation, decision-making, empathy and emotion.
MeSH. [1]. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is the frontal part of the cingulate cortex, that resembles a collar form around the corpus callosum, the fibrous bundle that relays neural signals between the right and left cerebral hemispheres of the brain. It includes both the ventral and dorsal areas of the cingulate cortex, and appears to play a role in a wide variety of autonomic functions, such as regulating blood pressure and heart rate, as well as rational cognitive functions, such as reward anticipation, decision-making, empathy and emotion.
The affect division of anterior cingulate cortex modulates autonomic activity and internal emotional responses, while the cognition division is engaged in response selection associated with skeletomotor activity and responses to noxious stimuli. Excessive cingulate activity in cases with seizures confirmed in anterior cingulate cortex with subdural electrode recordings, can impair consciousness, alter affective state and expression, and influence skeletomotor and autonomic activity.
The cingulate cortex, also known as limbic cortex, is a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cerebral cortex. The cingulate cortex includes the entire cingulate gyrus, which lies immediately above the corpus callosum, and the continuation of this in the cingulate sulcus. Dorsally is the granular area 31. The posterior cingulate cortex receives a great part of its afferent axons from the superficial nucleus (or nucleus superior-falsely LD-) of the thalamus (see thalamus), which itself receives axons from the subiculum.
Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) lies on the medial surfaces of the brain's frontal lobes and encompasses subdivisions that play key roles in cognitive, motor, and emotional processing (1). It refers to the same cortical region that has been called the anterior cingulate cognitive division (ACcd) (1), rostral cingulate zone (9), or midcingulate cortex (3). The dACC ROI is indicated in aqua on the coronal slice enlargement (Subject 1, Lower Left). Coronal slices are shown for subjects 2 and 3.
Impairments in the development of the anterior cingulate, together with impairments in the dorsal medial-frontal cortex, may constitute a neural substrate for socio-cognitive deficits in autism, such as social orienting and joint attention. It appears to play a role in a wide variety of autonomic functions, such as regulating blood pressure and heart rate. It is also involved in rational cognitive functions, such as reward anticipation, decision-making, empathy, impulse control, and emotion.
Assessments of anterior cingulate cortex in experimental animals and humans have led to unifying theories of its structural organization and contributions to mammalian behaviour. The anterior cingulate cortex forms a large region around the rostrum of the corpus callosum that is termed the anterior executive region. Excessive cingulate activity in cases with seizures confirmed in anterior cingulate cortex with subdural electrode recordings, can impair consciousness, alter affective state and expression, and influence skeletomotor and autonomic activity.