In the 2005 TNT study, 10,001 people with stable heart disease received either maximum-dose 80-mg Lipitor速 or a standard dose of 10-mg Lipitor速 daily. 1 Maximum-dose Lipitor速 reduced levels of harmful low density lipoprotein (LDL) to an average of 77 mg/dL. This represented a substantial reduction in LDL. In comparison, standard-dose Lipitor速 reduced LDL to an average level of 101 mg/dL, which was also a good result.
The recommended starting dose of LIPITOR is 10 or 20 mg once daily. Patients who require a large reduction in LDL-C (more than 45%) may be started at 40 mg once daily. The dosage range of LIPITOR is 10 to 80 mg once daily. LIPITOR can be administered as a single dose at any time of the day, with or without food. The starting dose and maintenance doses of LIPITOR should be individualized according to patient characteristics such as goal of therapy and response (see current NCEP Guidelines).
BACKGROUND: The objective of this pilot study was to evaluate the comparative efficacy of alternate-day dosing of atorvastatin compared with the standard once-daily dose based on mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) reduction from baseline at 6 and 12 weeks of treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Although higher doses of atorvastatin were used on alternate days, these results suggest that the alternate-day administration of atorvastatin can produce a reduction in LDL-C comparable to that of daily administration in patients with hypercholesterolemia, and yet provide some cost savings.
For patients aged 10 years and above, the recommended starting dose of atorvastatin is 10 mg per day with titration up to 20 mg per day. Titration should be conducted according to the individual response and tolerability in paediatric patients. Doses should be individualised and adjusted every 4 weeks to 40 mg daily. Thereafter, either the dose may be increased to a maximum of 80 mg daily or a bile acid sequestrant may be combined with 40 mg atorvastatin once daily. Only limited data are available (see section 5.1).
Combination therapy of low-dose atorvastatin and fenofibrate in mixed hyperlipidemia. Chatley P, Badyal DK, Calton R, Khosla PP. Mixed hyperlipidemia is a major cause of coronary artery disease. Monotherapy with statins is considered the gold standard for treatment of mixed hyperlipidemia. No significant difference was reported in safety profile between the two groups. To conclude, the results suggest that combination therapy with low-dose atorvastatin and fenofibrate is more efficacious, with no increase in adverse effects when compared with monotherapies with individual drugs for mixed hyperlipidemia.
Starting lower also makes sense because Individual variation in LDL response to statin therapy is large (range 10% to 70%) (1).. In a 1998 study using the lower 0.3 mg dosage, 52% of patients achieved LDL-C reductions of 35%, and 30% of patients achieved LDL-C reductions of 40% (7). Rational dosing is key with statins for not only achieving target low-density cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, but also for avoiding adverse effects. Most statin adverse effects, including the musculoskeletal (including rhabdomyolysis) and gastrointestinal systems are dose-related (1, 2).
He or she may also decrease your Lipitor dosage if you experience side effects. The average daily dose for most people taking Lipitor is Lipitor 20 mg to Lipitor 40 mg once a day. In some situations, your healthcare provider may recommend taking Lipitor every other day, instead of every day. Lipitor Dosage for High Cholesterol. The recommended starting Lipitor dosage for most people with high cholesterol is Lipitor 10 mg to Lipitor 2
But greater benefit may be expected by combination therapy. Combination may allow lower doses of statins and less adverse effects. Hence, this preliminary study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low-dose atorvastatin in combination with fenofibrate in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia. No significant difference was reported in safety profile between the two groups. To conclude, the results suggest that combination therapy with low-dose atorvastatin and fenofibrate is more efficacious, with no increase in adverse effects when compared with monotherapies with individual drugs for mixed hyperlipidemia.
Ninety patients were assigned into three groups and received atorvastatin (10-40 mg/day) or fenofibrate (160-200 mg/day) or combination of low-dose atorvastatin (5 mg/day) and fenofibrate (160 mg/day). No significant difference was reported in safety profile between the two groups. To conclude, the results suggest that combination therapy with low-dose atorvastatin and fenofibrate is more efficacious, with no increase in adverse effects when compared with monotherapies with individual drugs for mixed hyperlipidemia.