1 When you first plug it in, Windows will actually ask you if you want to use it as a backup. 2  Tell it that you do. 3  If you don't get this prompt, you can just go to the Start Menu, type backup in the search box, and hit Backup and Restore. 4  From there, click the Set Up Backup button. On Windows. 1  Get a backup drive. 2  This can be just about any USB external hard drive, and you can get them at most electronics stores. 3  Try to get one that has twice as much space as your computer, so you have room for multiple backups and so you have room for all the data you might get in the future.
Back up files in Windows XP. If your notebook uses Windows XP, you can use the Backup utility to back up your files. Click Start, All Programs, Accessories, System Tools, and then Backup to open the Backup or Restore wizard. Follow the on-screen instructions to create your backup file. A backup file is created in the specified location. 
Attach your external hard drive to your computer. Click Start, type backup and restore and click Backup and Restore.. Click Restore My Files.. Alternatively, click Restore All Users' Files to restore all files or Recover System Settings or Your Computer to perform a system recovery. Backup. Attach your external hard drive to your computer and turn on the device, if necessary. Most external hard drives connect via your computer's USB port, but some drives may use another connection protocol, such as eSATA.
3. The Windows XP backup tool allows backing up all user files in just one task. If you select the option of the My Documents backup, it will copy the entire contents of the Documents and Settings folder including MS Outlook/Outlook Express messages and settings as well as your profile settings. Tips. 1  The farthest location Windows XP backup tool suggests is a network drive or an external drive. 2  By default, it will even offer you to back up to a floppy drive, and that's the only removable storage it has in store for you. 3  Now think how many floppy diskettes it will require to back up 30GB of critical information!
If you are using Windows XP and regularly backup your data to an external hard disk using Windows XP's Backup Utility, chances are that you imagined that when it was time to move to a new Windows 8 computer, you would simply restore your backup into the new operating system. 
On Windows. 1  Get a backup drive. 2  When you first plug it in, Windows will actually ask you if you want to use it as a backup. 3  From there, click the Set Up Backup button. 4  On the last screen, hit Save Settings and Run Backup. On Windows. 1  Get a backup drive. 2  This can be just about any USB external hard drive, and you can get them at most electronics stores. 3  Try to get one that has twice as much space as your computer, so you have room for multiple backups and so you have room for all the data you might get in the future.
If you are running XP Home, the Windows backup utility is not included and you are going to have to install it. Here's how: The Backup program is installed automatically on XP Professional, but not on XP Home. If you have the genuine bootable XP Home installation CD, insert it into your system and browse to this folder: \ValueAdd\MSFT\NTBACKUP. Double click the ntbackup.msi file to begin the installation. 
When you need to restore your backed up iTunes Library from your external drive to your computer: 1  Quit iTunes. 2  Locate your external drive. 3  Mac: On the Desktop or Finder sidebar. 4  Windows: In My Computer. Copy the iTunes folder to your external drive. To copy all the items in your iTunes library (including the iTunes Library file that holds all your playlists, playcounts, ratings, and other data) to your external drive: 1  Quit iTunes. 2  Locate your external drive. 3  Mac: On the desktop or Finder sidebar.