(They will have the option to leave the group.). Privacy settings come in the form of Open, Closed and Secret.. Open groups are public -- members can see the group and who else is in it. If the open group is within your network, users within your network can see what members post in the group. Keep in mind that when you join a group, the group activity will appear in your news feed alongside other friend updates. If the admin of the group allows members to add others, you can add friends by choosing + Add Friends on the right side of
Only current admins can add more admins to a group. Keep in mind that a person must already be a group member before they can be made an admin. To add an admin: 1  Click Members. 2  Click under the name of the member you want to add as an admin. 3  Click Make Admin
The changes admins can make to group privacy depend on the size of the group. Groups with fewer than 250 people. To change your group's privacy as an admin: 1  Click Edit Group Settings. 2  Choose a new group privacy option under the Privacy section. 3  Click Save. Only members will be able to post in the group using your customized address. To create a customized web and email address for a group you admin: 1  Go to your group and click in the top-right corner and then select Edit Group Settings. 2  Next to Web and Email Address, click Customize Address. 3  Enter a address for your group
If you are a group admin you can add more admins to share group privileges. Please go to the group home page and follow the link to Edit Group Members. On the following page you can search for any current member or simply view all members if the group is small. Clicking make admin to the right of any current member will give admin rights to the user. Please keep in mind that any other admin in the group will have identical group privileges as you (i.e. they can edit the group, remove members, remove other admins, change group info, etc). 
To make someone else an admin of your group, you must first add him or her as a member. Then, click the About tab, click the gear icon next to the member's picture and choose Make admin.. Note that admins have a lot of power in groups, so choose wisely. Keep in mind that when you join a group, the group activity will appear in your news feed alongside other friend updates. If the admin of the group allows members to add others, you can add friends by choosing + Add Friends on the right side of the group.
Facebook lets you add administrators for your group -- and also remove them later, if you wish. Step 1. Sign in to the Facebook account on which you are an administrator for the group in question. Step 2. Navigate to the Facebook group and then click the See All link in the Members section on the right side of the page. This displays a list of all the current group members. Step 3. Click Remove Admin beside the name of any group admin whom you wish to remove. Click Okay in the small window that opens to confirm that you wish to remove this person as an admin. Step 4. Click Make Admin beside the name of any group member whom you wish to make into an admin for the group.
Keep in mind that once you make a member an admin, they will be able to remove members or admins, add new admins and edit the group description and settings. You should only add a member as an admin if you know and trust them. Keep in mind that a person must already be a group member before they can be made an admin. To add an admin: 1  Click Members. 2  Click under the name of the member you want to add as an admin.
1 Go to your group and click in the top-right corner and then select Edit Group Settings. 2  Next to Web and Email Address, click Customize Address. 3  Enter a address for your group. 4  The address can't have special characters and can only include letters, numbers and a period 5  (.). Click Customize Address. Only members will be able to post in the group using your customized address. To create a customized web and email address for a group you admin: 1  Go to your group and click in the top-right corner and then select Edit Group Settings. 2  Next to Web and Email Address, click Customize Address. 3  Enter a address for your group
In addition to everything that group members can do, a group admin can: Edit the group description, tags and settings. Add more admins to a group. Remove abusive posts and remove or block members. You're automatically an admin if you create a group. Otherwise, if you join a group that already has one or more admins, you can ask any of the existing admins to add you as an admin. If you're a member of a group with no admins, you can become an admin by clicking Make Me Admin under Members in the right column. More info. Get help for mobile apps and browsers.