Epiretinal membrane is a disease of the eye in response to changes in the vitreous humor or more rarely, diabetes. It is also called macular pucker. 
Epiretinal Membrane. An epiretinal membrane is a proliferation of abnormal tissue on the surface of the retina. The abnormal tissue tends to accumulate in the center of the retina in an area called the macula. The macula contains the highest concentration of cells responsible for the reception of light stimuli from our environment
Introduction. An epiretinal membrane is a thin sheet of fibrous tissue that can develop on the surface of the macular area of the retina and cause a disturbance in vision. An epiretinal membrane is also sometimes called a macular pucker, premacular fibrosis, surface wrinkling retinopathy or cellophane maculopathy. The retina is a clear film of very delicate tissue that lines the inside of the back of the eye. Occasionally however, an epiretinal membrane will develop in an eye as a result of retinal detachment, trauma, inflammatory disease, blood vessel abnormalities, or other pathological conditions. Most epiretinal membranes are mild and have little or no effect on vision.
A epiretinal membrane can contract and causes wrinkling of the macula, often referred to as a macular pucker. This can cause blurred and distorted central vision. Most of the eye’s interior is filled with vitreous, a gel-like substance that fills about 80 percent of the eye. When this happens, the retina begins a healing process to the damaged area and forms scar tissue, or an epiretinal membrane, on the surface of the retina. This scar tissue is firmly attached to the retina surface.
Causes of epiretinal membranes. An epiretinal membrane – in colour and more obviously in black and white. An epiretinal membrane is a thin sheet of fibrous tissue that can form on the macula (the sharp focusing area at the back of your eye). It acts like a film through which it is harder to see. The film may also contract like scar tissue, which can pull on the delicate retina at the back of your eye.
Epiretinal Membranes. An epiretinal membrane is a thin sheet of fibrous tissue that can develop on the surface of the macular area of the retina and cause a disturbance in vision. An epiretinal membrane is also sometimes called a macular pucker, premacular fibrosis, surface wrinkling retinopathy or cellophane maculopathy. The retina is a clear film of very delicate tissue that lines the inside of the back of the eye. Occasionally however, an epiretinal membrane will develop in an eye as a result of retinal detachment, trauma, inflammatory disease, blood vessel abnormalities, or other pathological conditions. Most epiretinal membranes are mild and have little or no effect on vision.
Epiretinal membrane. An epiretinal membrane (ERM) is scar tissue that has formed on the surface of the macula, located in the center of the eye’s light-sensitive tissue called the retina. The macula provides the sharp, central vision we need for reading, driving, and seeing fine detail. When this happens, the retina begins a healing process to the damaged area and forms scar tissue, or an epiretinal membrane, on the surface of the retina. This scar tissue is firmly attached to the retina surface.
An epiretinal membrane (ERM) is a thin layer of scar tissue that develops on the retina. Also referred to as cellophane maculopathy or a macular pucker, ERMs may blur or distort your central vision as the membrane begins to wrinkle and shrink. 