Sciatica is a common type of pain affecting the sciatic nerve, a large nerve extending from the lower back down the back of each leg. Common symptoms of sciatica include: 1  Pain in the rear or leg that is worse when sitting. 2  Burning or tingling down the leg. 3  Weakness, numbness, or difficulty moving the leg or foot. 4  A constant pain on one side of the rear. 5  A shooting pain that makes it difficult to stand up. 
1 Sciatica from S1 nerve root. 2  Symptoms of sciatica originating at this L5-S1 level, which is at the bottom of the spine, may include: pain and/or numbness to the lateral, or outside, of the foot; weakness that results in difficulty raising the heel off the ground or walking on the tiptoes. Symptoms of sciatica originating at this level of the lower back may include: pain and/or numbness at the top of the foot, particularly in the web between the great toe (big toe) and the second toe. 1  See All about the L4-L5 Spinal Segment. 2 
Save. The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. It starts in the lower back and branches off down both legs. Sciatic nerve damage is most commonly caused when the sciatic nerve is pinched either between two bones, or as a result of a muscle spasm that puts pressure on the nerve. Sudden Movements. A very common symptom of sciatic nerve damage is when the pain is intensified by sudden movements. Attempts to stand quickly from a seated position can cause severe pain, and even a cough or sneeze may send pain shooting down your legs.
The specific sciatica symptoms-the leg pain, numbness, tingling, weakness, and possibly symptoms that radiate into the foot-largely depend on where the nerve is pinched. For example, a lumbar segment 5 (L5) nerve impingement can cause weakness in extension of the big toe and potentially in the ankle. 
Sciatica is pain, tingling, or numbness produced by an irritation of the nerve roots that lead to the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is formed by the nerve roots coming out of the spinal cord into the lower back. It goes down through the buttock, then its branches extend down the back of the leg to the ankle and foot. 
The sciatica symptoms one feels—such as nerve pain, numbness, tingling, weakness—are highly variable: they can include symptoms primarily felt in the buttock, or in the back of the thigh down to the calf, or even into the toes. 1  See Sciatica Symptoms. Symptoms of sciatica originating at this level of the lower back may include: pain and/or numbness at the top of the foot, particularly in the web between the great toe (big toe) and the second toe. 1  See All about the L4-L5 Spinal Segment. 2  Sciatica from S1 nerve root.
Sciatica: Sciatic Nerve Pain Symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Sciatica is a common type of pain caused by compression or irritation of the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is the longest nerve in the body, going from the pelvis, through the buttocks, down the legs to the feet. Common symptoms of sciatica include: 1  Pain in the buttock or leg that is worse when sitting. 2  Burning or tingling down the leg. 3  Weakness, numbness, or difficulty moving the leg or foot.
Symptoms of sciatica. The pain from sciatica is felt along the path of the sciatic nerve and can be felt deep in the buttock, with pain that travels down the back of the leg, sometimes to the foot. The pain can be accompanied by tingling, ‘pins and needles’, or numbness, and sometimes by muscular weakness in the leg.
1 Sciatica is nerve pain from irritation of the sciatic nerve. 2  The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 3  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 4  Treatments for sciatica depend on the underlying cause and the severity of the pain. 1 The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 2  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 3
1 Sciatica from L4 nerve root. 2  Symptoms of sciatica stemming from this level, the L3-L4 level, in the lower spine may include: pain and/or numbness to the medial lower leg and foot; weakness may include the inability to bring the foot upwards (heel walk). Symptoms of sciatica originating at this level of the lower back may include: pain and/or numbness at the top of the foot, particularly in the web between the great toe (big toe) and the second toe. 1  See All about the L4-L5 Spinal Segment. 2  Sciatica from S1