http://www.bearstearnsbravo.com. This video shows you how to pronounce Thierry Mugler. Learn the correct American English pronunciation of the French fashion designer. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License
Thierry is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a very prominent last name for all people (#18667 out of 150436, Top 12%). (2000 U.S. Census). Derek (#205 a year ago) , Derrick (#353) , Terry (#626) , Ted, Dirk and Rick are the popular alternative forms of Thierry (outside Top 1000) ranked in the Top 1000. Thierry /thi-er-ry/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of French and Old German origin, and the meaning of Thierry is people's ruler. Variant of Theodoric, and also used as the French form of Terry. Fashion designer Thierry Mugler. Kreatif forms: Thawry, Thorry, Thory
Thierry is a French male given name, derived from the Germanic  Theodoric  and the cognate of German  Dietrich  and  Dieter , English Derek and Derrick, and of various forms in other European languages. It was a very common given name from the mid-50s to the 70s, but has since become uncommon. 
The free inogolo app for iphone is available now. © 2006-2014: inogolo. 
[ 3 syll. (t)hier-ry, th-ie-rry ] The baby girl name Thierry is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced T IY EH-R-iy- †. Thierry is of Old French origin and it is used mainly in French. Thierry is a form of the English Terry. Thierry is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Its pronunciation is T IY EH-R-iy- †. Thierry is used chiefly in the French language, and its origin is Old French and Gothic. Thierri (Old French) and Tierri (Old French) are old forms of Thierry. Thierry is a variant of the name Terry (English) in the French language. Thierry is also a variant of the name Theodoric (English) in the French language. Thierry has 14 variants. Variants include Theirry, Theory, Thery, Thierea, Thieree, Thierey, Thieri, Thierie, Thierrea, Thierree, Thierrey, Thierri, Thierrie, and Thiery. Thierry is unusual as a baby name for boys
Thierry, which is very popular in France, would make an interesting import; it's somewhat familiar through designer Thierry Mugler and international soccer star Thierry Henry. It almost sounds like Terry, but not quite. 
Originally Posted by sandyw7592 Tee-airy Moo-glare (without too much emphasis on the &quot;glare&quot; part) is better than moo-glay. As is mentioned above, pronouncing a final &quot;-er&quot; in French as roughly &quot;air&quot; is uncommon, but possible, especially with certain family names. T-airy Moog-lair I've heard this same pronunciation from more than one French-speaking person.[/quote] Me too. I believe the &quot;er&quot; is pronounced as a soft r, and not silent, because it is a proper name and not the infinitive of an &quot;er&quot; verb. So it would be Tea-ah-(r)-eee Moog-lah(r)