Is this really a slang term?. I've never seen this term before. I'm familar with this term, but I don't use it.. I occassionally use this term.. I use this term all the time!.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Sesh. otherwise known as session-When two or more participants smoke a shit load of weed over a certain period of time, always resulting in each and every one of the smokers being extremely stoned. alright mate, that was a fat sesh we had last night, must have smoked at least an ounce. yeah man!
Definition of SECESH. : of or relating to U.S. secessionists or secessionism. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. by shortening & alteration from secession & secessionist
Question: What does selah mean in the Bible?. Answer: The word selah is found in two books of the Bible, but is most prevalent in the Psalms, where it appears 71 times. It also appears three times in the third chapter of the minor prophet Habakkuk. There is a great deal of confusion about the meaning of selah, primarily because the Hebrew root word from which it is translated is uncertain. The Amplified Bible adds pause and calmly think about that to each verse where selah appears. When we see the word in a psalm or in Habakkuk 3, we should pause to carefully weigh the meaning of what we have just read or heard, lifting up our hearts in praise to God for His great truths.
2-An abbreviation for the word session. 3-May also refer to emotional, physical, or mental states. 4- Any experience which is definable in time horizons, usually marked by beginning and end, often used as a subtle comment on the impermanence of these expriences. Good hack sesh.
What does SESH mean on Facebook? What's the meaning of the abbreviation SESH in texting talk or on Twitter? 
Sesh. An abbreviation for session. Used when you want to something private with your friends such as play XBOX (or box), go to a club, talk on the phone, or to talk about secret things with a limited amount of people. otherwise known as session-When two or more participants smoke a shit load of weed over a certain period of time, always resulting in each and every one of the smokers being extremely stoned. alright mate, that was a fat sesh we had last night, must have smoked at least an ounce.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: sesh (Noun). Short form of session. A period of time spent engaged in some group activity. sesh (Noun). An informal get-together or meeting to perform a group activity. Generally, sesh refers to a period of time spent engaged in some group activity. Increasingly, it has come to mean, particularly among young people, an informal, often impromptu, get-together or meeting to perform a group activity, usually with an element of excitement or air of conviviality.
Sesh. Sesh is a colloquial or slang short form of session, and is also a short form of seisiun, a word used by the Irish. Generally, sesh refers to a period of time spent engaged in some group activity. Increasingly, it has come to mean, particularly among young people, an informal, often impromptu, get-together or meeting to perform a group activity, usually with an element of excitement or air of conviviality.