Well, your score reports won't be mailed to you until about 3 weeks after you take the test. If you took the ACT Plus Writing, then your Writing score will come about 2 weeks after that. These ACT score release dates should end your questions, but in case you've still got a few, check out some of the ACT FAQ's here: 
Well, it all depends on the colleges you are considering. A 23 on the ACT or a 1800 on the SAT may be above average at one university but below average at another. The higher your score, the more options are open to you. 
The maximum score for each of the four tests is 36. The composite score is the average of the four scores. Students who took the ACT Plus Writing test will receive two additional scores: a Writing score (0-12) and an English/Writing composite score (1-36). A good score is one that will get you into the college of your choice, so the answer depends on where you want to go to college. The average score is 20.
The ACT score that's good enough for you is unique to you, based on your goals. Download our free guide to figuring out your ACT target score. When ACT scores come out, by test date ACT scores usually start coming out 9-10 days after your test date. ACTs are always taken on Saturdays, so your scores will usually come out two Tuesdays after your test date. Depending on your test date below, here are when scores are released.
Students who test outside of the domestic U.S. usually have to wait about 3 weeks to see their multiple choice scores. If you opted to take the ACT with Writing, then your essay score will be added a little later, about two weeks after your multiple choice scores. Posted by Rebecca Safier | Aug 21, 2015 5:40:00 PM. After you take the ACT, the anticipation isn't over! Now you have to wait to find out your scores. While they're not available immediately, you don't have to wait too long to see your scores or have them sent to colleges.
1 A student’s composite ACT score is the average of the student’s scaled scores for the four multiple-choice test sections. 2  Example: If a student scored a 24 English, 28 Math, 26 Reading, and 23 Science, his composite ACT score would be (24 + 28 + 26 + 23)/4 = 25.25, which is rounded down to a 25. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can view your scores online, in as little as 2-1/2 weeks. Starting on December 28th, they will upload scores online. If you registered online with a login username and password, you are eligible to view your scores this way. If you registered via mail in form or through standby (taking a packet in the day of the test) then you scores will be to you in the mail anywhere from 3 to 8 weeks from the test date
You've taken the test, and now you're waiting for score results to come back. This can be a tense time, but knowing when exactly to expect your ACT scores to come out can help you plan ahead. In this article, find out when your test scores will become available, and how to get your ACT score in the fastest way. ACT scores usually start coming out 9-10 days after your test date. ACTs are always taken on Saturdays, so your scores will usually come out two Tuesdays after your test date. Depending on your test date below, here are when scores are released.