Characteristics of epithelium. Epithelial tissues have five main characteristics. 1  Polarity – all epithelia have an apical surface and a lower attached basal surface that differ in structure and function. 2  For this reason, epithelia is described as exhibiting apical basal polarity. 1 Polarity – all epithelia have an apical surface and a lower attached basal surface that differ in structure and function. 2  For this reason, epithelia is described as exhibiting apical basal polarity. 3  Most apical surfaces have microvilli (small extensions of the plasma membrane) that increase surface area.
1 Epithelial cells form the thin layer of cells known as the endothelium, which is continuous with the inner tissue lining of organs such as the brain, lungs, skin, and heart. 2  The free surface of epithelial tissue is usually exposed to fluid or the air, while the bottom surface is attached to a basement membrane. 1 For example, the skin is composed of a layer of epithelial tissue (epidermis) that is supported by a layer of connective tissue. 2  It protects the internal structures of the body from damage and dehydration. 3  Epithelial tissue also helps to protect against microorganisms.
Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a type of tissue that has a single layer of cells arranged in a fashion that appears to be stratified, whereas transitional epithelial tissue is an elastic-like epithelial tissue that swells, contracts, and changes shape as necessary. 
You can find simple squamous epithelial tissue in alveoli in lungs. The reason of it, is that simple squamous cells are very thin and they pass the gases through very easily. … As you know the alveoli's' role is to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide, thin walls help to do it quicker. Epithelial tissue cells are avascular so they are nourished by substances diffusing from blood vessels in the underlying connective tissue. Oxygen is diffused through the ba … sal lamina.
Cuboidal epithelial cells, as their name suggest, are shaped like cubes. These are typically found in tissues that secrete or absorb substances, such as in the kidneys and glands. Columnar epithelial cells are long and thin, like columns. These are usually found in places that secrete mucus such as the stomach. They can also specialize to receive sensory information in places like taste buds on your tongue and inside of your nose.
Squamous epithelial cells are flat and are usually found lining surfaces that require a smooth flow of fluid such as your blood vessels, or lining areas that require a very thin surface for molecules to pass through, such as the air sacs in your lungs. Columnar epithelial cells are long and thin, like columns. These are usually found in places that secrete mucus such as the stomach. They can also specialize to receive sensory information in places like taste buds on your tongue and inside of your nose.
The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells. The lining of the esophagus is an example of a non-keratinized or moist stratified epithelium. Transitional. Transitional epithelia are found in tissues that stretch and it can appear to be stratified cuboidal when the tissue is not stretched or stratified squamous when the organ is distended and the tissue stretches.
Epithelial Tissue. 1  Epithelial tissue covers the outside of the body and lines organs, vessels (blood and lymph), and cavities. 2  Epithelial cells form the thin layer of cells known as the endothelium, which is continuous with the inner tissue lining of organs such as the brain, lungs, skin, and heart. 1 For example, the skin is composed of a layer of epithelial tissue (epidermis) that is supported by a layer of connective tissue. 2  It protects the internal structures of the body from damage and dehydration. 3  Epithelial tissue also helps to protect against microorganisms.
The epithelial tissues of your body is the SKIN. The skin is the largest organ of the human body that protects the body and acts like a sponge too. Epithelial tissue cells are avascular so they are nourished by substances diffusing from blood vessels in the underlying connective tissue. Oxygen is diffused through the ba … sal lamina.
Epithelial cells in urine. Epithelial tissues or cells are one of the most important cells found in the human body. The skin is made up of epithelial tissues. Additionally, most of the organs and the openings in the inner body are lined with epithelial cells. 