This is a good example of a short melodic idea (a cell, motive, or figure) that is used in many different ways throughout the movement. Most figures and motifs are shorter than phrases, but some of the leitmotifs of Wagner’s operas are long enough to be considered phrases. Music themes and motifs. A short melodic idea may also be called a motif, a motive, a cell, or a figure. These small pieces of melody will appear again and again in a piece of music, sometimes exactly the same and sometimes changed.
A musical motif has been defined as a short musical idea ... melodic, harmonic, or rhythmic, or all three, a salient recurring figure, musical fragment or succession of notes that has some special importance in or is characteristic of a composition : the smallest structural unit possessing thematic identity.. 
Full Definition of MOTIVE. 1. : something (as a need or desire) that causes a person to act. 2. : a recurrent phrase or figure that is developed through the course of a musical composition. 3. : motif. — mo·tive·less \-ləs\ adjective. 
A musical motif is an easily recognizable melodic or rhythmic phrase that repeats and develops prominently throughout a given composition. A motif can be rhythmic, melodic or chordal in nature. Originally a French term, motif translates to motive or pattern in English. Confusing the issue as to what defines a musical motif are a number of similar terms that are occasionally used synonymously, but which in fact have different meanings.
Motivic saturation is the immersion of a musical motive in a composition, i.e., keeping motifs and themes below the surface or playing with their identity, and has been used by composers including Miriam Gideon, as in Night is my Sister (1952) and Fantasy on a Javanese Motif (1958), and Donald Erb. Any motif may be used to construct complete melodies, themes and pieces. Musical development uses a distinct musical figure that is subsequently altered, repeated, or sequenced throughout a piece or section of a piece of music, guaranteeing its unity.
A rhythmic motif is the term designating a characteristic rhythmic formula, an abstraction drawn from the rhythmic values of a melody. A motif thematically associated with a person, place, or idea is called a leitmotif. Occasionally such a motif is a musical cryptogram of the name involved. Any motif may be used to construct complete melodies, themes and pieces. Musical development uses a distinct musical figure that is subsequently altered, repeated, or sequenced throughout a piece or section of a piece of music, guaranteeing its unity.
2. motif-a theme that is repeated or elaborated in a piece of music. motive. melodic theme, musical theme, theme, idea - (music) melodic subject of a musical composition; the theme is announced in the first measures; the accompanist picked up the idea and elaborated it. n. 1. a. A recurrent thematic element in an artistic or literary work. b. A dominant theme or central idea. 2. Music A short rhythmic or melodic passage that is repeated or evoked in various parts of a composition. 3.
Play (help·info). In music, a motif (pronunciation) (help·info) or motive is a short musical idea, a salient recurring figure, musical fragment or succession of notes that has some special importance in or is characteristic of a composition : The motive is the smallest structural unit possessing thematic identity. Any motif may be used to construct complete melodies, themes and pieces. Musical development uses a distinct musical figure that is subsequently altered, repeated, or sequenced throughout a piece or section of a piece of music, guaranteeing its unity.
motive-a theme that is repeated or elaborated in a piece of music. motif. melodic theme, musical theme, theme, idea - (music) melodic subject of a musical composition; the theme is announced in the first measures; the accompanist picked up the idea and elaborated it. 1. An emotion, desire, physiological need, or similar impulse that acts as an incitement to action. 2. (mō′tĭv, mō-tēv′) A motif in art, literature, or music. adj. 1. Causing or able to cause motion: motive power. 2.