Two doses of the hepatitis A vaccine are usually given to children when they are between 12 and 24 months old. All hepatitis A vaccines use in Australia are killed vaccines. To find out more, read our information on how vaccines are made. 
Hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for all children at age 1 year, for persons who are at increased risk for infection, for persons who are at increased risk for complications from Hepatitis A, and for any person wishing to obtain immunity. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
A. I took the Hep A vaccine and then six months later took a booster and it supposedly lasts for life. But you have to get the booster. I read that Hep B vaccine is similar. Here's some more info that I pulled out of an article: Both the vaccines for hepatitis A and the vaccines for hepatitis B are highly effective. In studies of the four vaccines used for hepatitis A, nearly 100% of all adults who receive one develop protective levels of antibodies within one month of receiving a single dose. 
How long does hepatitis A vaccine protect you? Estimates for long-term protection for fully vaccinat-ed people (i.e., full two-dose series) suggest that pro-tection from hepatitis A virus infection could last for at least 25 years in adults and at least 14–20 years in children. For people older than age 40 years, IG is preferred, but hepatitis A vaccine can be used if IG is unavailable. IG should be given to children younger than 12 months of age, immunocompro-mised people, people who have diagnosed chronic liver disease, and people for whom vaccine is con-traindicated.
In some people, symptoms of hepatitis A recur in 6–9 months; this condition is called relaps-ing hepatitis A. How long do symptoms last? Symptoms usually last less than 2 months; however, a few people are ill for as long as 6 months. How serious is hepatitis A? Hepatitis A can be quite serious. Among reported cases of hepatitis A (CDC, 2009) nearly 40% required hospitalization. For people older than age 40 years, IG is preferred, but hepatitis A vaccine can be used if IG is unavailable. IG should be given to children younger than 12 months of age, immunocompro-mised people, people who have diagnosed chronic liver disease, and people for whom vaccine is con-traindicated.
1 All children living in the United States are recommended to get the hepatitis A vaccine. 2  All household contacts of international adoptees. 3  Those traveling to get the child should be immunized at least two weeks before departure. 4  Anyone who wants to avoid infection with hepatitis A. 
Vaccination with the full, two-dose series of Hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. Hepatitis A vaccine has been licensed in the United States for use in persons 12 months of age and older. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
The initial dose of the vaccine should be followed up by a booster six to twelve months later. Protection against hepatitis A begins approximately two to four weeks after the initial vaccination. Protection is proven to last at least 15 years and is estimated to last at least 25 years if the full course is administered. Hepatitis A vaccine is a vaccine against the hepatitis A virus. The first successful vaccine against it was invented by Maurice Hilleman at Merck. The vaccine protects against the virus in more than 95% of cases and provides protection from the virus for at least fifteen years.
All children at age 1 year (i.e., 12–23 months). Children who have not been vaccinated by age 2 can be vaccinated at subsequent visits. Children and adolescents ages 2–18 who live in states or communities where routine Hepatitis A vaccination has been implemented because of high disease incidence. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.