Vitamins are grouped into two broad categories: water soluble vitamins (thiamine, niacin, riboflavin, pantothenate, vitamin B12, folic acid, ascorbic acid) and fat soluble vitamins (vitamin E (tocopherols), vitamin D, vitamin A, vitamin K). Vitamin Toxicity. Vitamin. Overdose Level. Symptoms. vitamin A. 100,000 units/day. irritability, fatigue, insomnia, painful bones and joints, abnormal bone growth, loss of hair, itchy skin, anorexia, decreased blood clotting time, birth defects, abortions.
Taking large doses of vitamin D supplements can cause toxicity, called hypervitaminosis D. The main effect of this is hypercalcemia -- high calcium levels. Symptoms of hypercalcemia include nausea, loss of appetite, excessive urination, itchiness and weakness. Vitamin A toxicity causes headaches, rashes, coarse hair, hair loss, dry or peeling skin and cracked lips. It also increases the risk of osteoporosis -- thin bones -- and may rarely cause pseudotumor cerebri -- increased pressure in the head characterized by such symptoms as headaches, nausea and vision changes.
Water-soluble vitamins are not stored in your body, but some of them -- like vitamin C and some B vitamins -- can cause toxicity too. Vitamin A is important in forming light receptors in the eye and maintaining cells on the surface of tissues throughout the body. Vitamin A toxicity causes headaches, rashes, coarse hair, hair loss, dry or peeling skin and cracked lips. It also increases the risk of osteoporosis -- thin bones -- and may rarely cause pseudotumor cerebri -- increased pressure in the head characterized by such symptoms as headaches, nausea and vision changes.
Taking too much of any vitamin can produce a toxic effect. Vitamin A and vitamin D are the most likely to produce hypervitaminosis in large doses, while riboflavin, pantothenic acid, biotin, and vitamin C appear to be the least likely to cause problems. The exceptions are severe vitamin D toxicity, severe vitamin A toxicity, and severe vitamin B 6 toxicity. Too much vitamin D leads to deposits of calcium salts in the soft tissue of the body, which cannot be reversed. Birth defects due to vitamin A toxicity cannot be reversed.
Vitamin toxicity is a condition in which a person develops symptoms as side effects from taking massive doses of vitamins. Vitamins vary in the amounts that are required to cause toxicity and in the specific symptoms that result. The exceptions are severe vitamin D toxicity, severe vitamin A toxicity, and severe vitamin B 6 toxicity. Too much vitamin D leads to deposits of calcium salts in the soft tissue of the body, which cannot be reversed. Birth defects due to vitamin A toxicity cannot be reversed.
Vitamin D. Vitamin D is fat soluble and large or repeated doses can build up to toxic levels in the body. The symptoms and signs of toxicity include: nausea and vomiting, calcium deposits, unusual thirst, sore eyes, itching skin, kidney damage, damage to the arteries, irregular heart beat, and high blood pressure.
The main consequence of vitamin D toxicity is a buildup of calcium in your blood (hypercalcemia), which can cause poor appetite, nausea and vomiting. Weakness, frequent urination and kidney problems also may occur. Treatment includes the stopping of excessive vitamin D intake. Vitamin D toxicity is usually caused by megadoses of vitamin D supplements — not by diet or sun exposure. That's because your body regulates the amount of vitamin D produced by sun exposure, and even fortified foods don't contain large amounts of vitamin D.
Fat-soluble vitamins are the more problematic part of vitamin toxicity because the vitamins will continue to be stored within your body and build up. Having too much these vitamins can cause a very toxic effect. Vitamin A and D are the most likely vitamins to produce vitamin toxicity. 
VITAMIN D. Vitamin D and vitamin A are the most toxic of the fat-soluble vitamins. The symptoms of vitamin D toxicity are nausea, vomiting, pain in the joints, and loss of appetite. The patient may experience constipation alternating with diarrhea, or have tingling sensations in the mouth. The exceptions are severe vitamin D toxicity, severe vitamin A toxicity, and severe vitamin B 6 toxicity. Too much vitamin D leads to deposits of calcium salts in the soft tissue of the body, which cannot be reversed. Birth defects due to vitamin A toxicity cannot be reversed.