Tetanus is an infection caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani. Tetanus bacteria are everywhere in the environment, including soil, dust and manure. Certain breaks in the skin that are more likely to get infected with tetanus bacteria. These include: 1  Wounds contaminated with dirt, poop (feces), or spit (saliva). 2  Wounds caused by an object puncturing the skin, like a nail or needle (puncture wounds). 3  Burns.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Yes: Clostridium tetani is the name for the bacteria that causes tetanus. More details on tetanus can be found here: http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/229594-overview#showall ...Read more. 73,000 doctors available. Doctors are standing by 24/7 for advice, treatment or prescriptions. Tetanus (Definition). Tetanus is infection of the nervous system with the potentially deadly bacteria clostridium tetani (c. Tetani). See: http://www.Ncbi.Nlm.Nih.Gov/pubmedhealth/pmh0001640/.
Tetanus, also known as lockjaw, is an infection characterized by muscle spasms. In the most common type the spasms begin in the jaw and then progress to the rest of the body. These spasms usually last a few minutes each time and occur frequently for three to four weeks. Tetanus often begins with mild spasms in the jaw muscles —also known as lockjaw or trismus. The spasms can also affect the facial muscles resulting in an appearance called risus sardonicus. Chest, neck, back, abdominal muscles, and buttocks may be affected. Back muscle spasms often cause arching, called opisthotonos.
Tetanus [TET-nus] is a condition that affects the nervous system and causes painful, uncontrolled muscle spasms. It is an anaerobic bacterium, Clostridium tetani. It can prod … uce muscle spasms (lockjaw), severe illness or even death, if contracted. Thus, it is important to stay current on tetanus vaccine boosters (every 10 years).
Knowledge center. Tetanus (or lockjaw) is a serious infection caused by Clostridium tetani bacteria which produce a toxin that affects the brain and nervous system. The toxin leads to stiffness in the jaw muscles as well as other muscles. 
Tetanus is caused by an infection with the bacterium Clostridium tetani, which is commonly found in soil, dust and manure. The bacteria generally enter through a break in the skin such as a cut or puncture wound by a contaminated object. Tetanus often begins with mild spasms in the jaw muscles —also known as lockjaw or trismus. The spasms can also affect the facial muscles resulting in an appearance called risus sardonicus. Chest, neck, back, abdominal muscles, and buttocks may be affected. Back muscle spasms often cause arching, called opisthotonos.
Although tetanus toxin affects several areas of the body, it acts primarily on the jaw muscles. Stiffness in the jaw, neck and limbs are early signs of this disease. Later the jaws become firmly closed, hence the common name for tetanus, lockjaw. Rust doesn't cause tetanus, but stepping on a nail might if you're not immunized. In fact, any damage to the skin, even burns and blisters, allows tetanus-causing bacteria to enter the body. Tetanus is not as common as it once was. Still, tetanus patients have only about a 50-50 chance of recovering. Most tetanus deaths occur among infants and the elderly
Complete List of Vaccine Names and CPT/CVX Codes A list that matches the vaccine name or codes in Washington State Immunization Information System (WA IIS) with the brand name or other common names of the vaccines you use most often. 