Islamic law instructs that the deceased be washed and buried with only a wrapping of white cloth to preserve dignity. The cloth is sometimes perfumed, but as in natural burial, no chemical preservatives or embalming fluid are used, nor is there a burial vault, coffin or casket. Coffins are used, however, in countries such as the UK, where the law requires it.
What is a Direct Burial (definition: see Funeral Rule http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Funeral_Rule). TRADITIONAL FUNERAL (most expensive): What is a Traditional Funeral (definition: see Funeral Rule http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Funeral_Rule). 1  Review the Funeral Rule. 2  Cooperating Funeral Homes–become an informed consumer
CREMATION. What is a Cremation/Direct Cremation (definition: see Funeral Rule http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Funeral_Rule). OTHER BURIAL OPTIONS. What is a Green Burial/Natural Burial (definition: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_burial). TRADITIONAL FUNERAL (most expensive): What is a Traditional Funeral (definition: see Funeral Rule http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Funeral_Rule). 1  Review the Funeral Rule. 2  Cooperating Funeral Homes–become an informed consumer
Natural burial (sometimes also called woodland or green burial) is the most ecological funeral option; a thoughtful legacy for future generations. You can have a sense of peace knowing you'll be in the landscape you love. With our support and inspiration you'll have the time and space to do things your way. Our award-winning natural burial grounds are set within some of the UK's most beautiful countryside.
Yes. Most of what you may think of as laws are either rules of individual cemeteries or common practices assumed to be legal requirements. There is no law that a burial vault must be used, but many cemeteries require them for ease of lawn maintenance and closer spacing of graves. No. Because green cemeteries don’t have run-off of fertilizers, spilled fuels or toxins, natural burial land produces cleaner water than urban, suburban, or agricultural areas. Soil is a remarkably good filter.
Natural burial is the interment of the body of a dead person in the soil in a manner that does not inhibit decomposition but allows the body to recycle naturally. It is an alternative to other contemporary Western burial methods. The cloth is sometimes perfumed, but as in natural burial, no chemical preservatives or embalming fluid are used, nor is there a burial vault, coffin or casket. Coffins are used, however, in countries such as the UK, where the law requires it.
And unless someone discovers a method of prevention, you're going to do it, too -- die, that is. Death is big business. Our conventional, Western-centric idea of a traditional burial usually means funeral directors, embalming, caskets, cemetery plots, vaults, headstones, flowers or maybe even being shot into space. In the United States, the funeral home industry generates about $11 billion in annual revenue and is growing [source: CNN ]. Embalming gives the dead a lifelike appearance -- a sort of morbid Madame Tussauds look -- and that appearance remains de rigueur in today's funeral industry. Before the Civil War, burial often took place in simple graves in tall grasses.
Green burial (also called natural burial) is a way of caring for the dead with minimal environmental impact that furthers legitimate ecological aims such as the conservation of natural resources, reduction of carbon emissions, protection of worker health, and the restoration and/or preservation of habitat. No. Because green cemeteries don’t have run-off of fertilizers, spilled fuels or toxins, natural burial land produces cleaner water than urban, suburban, or agricultural areas. Soil is a remarkably good filter.
Special circumstances, such as an extended time between death and burial, or the transportation of remains on commercial flights (which often require unembalmed bodies to travel in expensive specialized containers), may necessitate embalming. The cloth is sometimes perfumed, but as in natural burial, no chemical preservatives or embalming fluid are used, nor is there a burial vault, coffin or casket. Coffins are used, however, in countries such as the UK, where the law requires it.