All of these medicines work best if used at the first sign of a fever blister (symptoms often include tingling, itching, burning, or redness). It is important to understand that treatment with these medications does not prevent future outbreaks of fever blisters.
Famciclovir (Famvir) is sometimes used to treat the herpes virus that causes cold sores and genital herpes (as well as the virus that causes shingles). This medicine is available only by prescription and is taken orally in tablet form.
Treat the fever. As the name fever blisters suggests, cold sores are sometimes accompanied by a fever, particularly in younger children. If fever is present, use fever-reducing medications such as acetaminophen, and monitor the fever carefully.
Currently there is no cure for fever blisters. Some medications can relieve some of the pain and discomfort associated with the sores, however. These include ointments that numb the blisters, antibiotics that control secondary bacterial infections, and ointments that soften the crusts of the sores.
Cold sores are caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV). Cold sores sometimes called fever blisters, are groups of small blisters on the lip and around the mouth. The skin around the blisters is often red, swollen, and sore.
Herpes Simplex, also known as cold sores or fever blisters, are painful lesions which usually form on the lips, chin, cheeks, or nostrils. The blisters typically turn into yellow-crusted sores and then disappear within a couple of weeks.
Acyclovir cream is used to treat cold sores (fever blisters; blisters that are caused by a virus called herpes simplex) on the face or lips.
Topical prescription fever blister medicines (creams or ointments that are applied directly to the fever blister) include: 1  Zovirax ® cream (acyclovir cream). 2  Zovirax ® ointment (acyclovir ointment) -- approved for people with a weakened immune system. 3  Denavir ® cream (penciclovir).
There are a number of home remedies that can be used to either treat or help to prevent cold sores (fever blisters). Most of them involve applying the treatment directly to the sore (such as ice, honey or a tea bag). One approach, however, involves taking oral supplements (lysine).