VelaShape™ is an FDA-approved, non-surgical body contouring treatment. VelaShape uses elos technology to help tone and shape your body. Elos technology involves the combination of Bi-Polar Radio Frequency (RF), Infrared Light Energy, plus Vacuum and Mechanical Massage. 
VelaShape Cost. Nationally, VelaShape treatments tend to cost $300 to $600 per session. Check our “Treatment Costs & Pricing” page for the average cost of the procedure-a number that’s based on what other readers of this site who’ve had the procedure say they paid. Of course, this amount may not reflect what your cost will be.
Velashape is an effective treatment for cellulite and body shaping that is used by people every day all across the US. With the treatment costs varying so drastically from $1200-$3500 per series of treatments it is advised that you research the various facilities in your area and scour for deals or packages. Realize that it takes at least 4 sessions to notice results and to justify the velashape cost you have incurred. There has been a reported range of $100-$500 and this is dictated by the location of the facility, the area of the body that is going to be treated, the condition of the treatment area and what kind of deals or discounts that are offered.
1 VelaShape typically costs $200 to $600 per treatment per body area (such as thighs, trunk, or buttocks) with four to six weekly treatments required initially, or a total of $800 to $2400; some treatment centers offer a discount of several hundred dollars on a package. Tweet. VelaShape, which sometimes is referred to as skin rejuvenation, is an FDA-approved treatment for smoothing skin and reducing cellulite on the body.
The VelaShape™ non-surgical liposuction and fat reduction program is designed to price the treatment of a zone and that treatment price is generally one-third of the cost of tradidional excisional liposuction in the same area. 
Velashape is a completely non-invasive procedure for getting rid of cellulite. VelaShape is a relatively new non-surgical treatment for reducing the amount of fat on your body, thus slimming and improving your body’s contour. Check our “Treatment Costs & Pricing” page for the average cost of the procedure-a number that’s based on what other readers of this site who’ve had the procedure say they paid. Of course, this amount may not reflect what your cost will be.
VelaShape™ and VelaSmooth™ costs depend on the size of the treatment area. In general, patients pay anywhere from $500 to $3,000. The cost of a single VelaShape™ may be priced higher than the cost of a single VelaSmooth™ treatment. However, VelaShape™ typically requires fewer treatment sessions.
Most Velashape treatments last from 30-50 minutes and yield the most noticeable results after 3-5 sessions. With the costs per session varying from $100-$500, it is important to spend some time to research so that you can reduce the cost without reducing the effectiveness. There has been a reported range of $100-$500 and this is dictated by the location of the facility, the area of the body that is going to be treated, the condition of the treatment area and what kind of deals or discounts that are offered.
Velashape Costs*. The American Society of Plastic Surgeons quoted the national average for Velashape is approximately $2,243, depending on the area(s) to be treated. The velashape procedure takes around 40 minutes to one hour, with little or no downtime. Four to six initial velashape treatments are recommended performed at one week intervals.
1 And The Skin Care Clinic in California charges $150 per session for one body part, $225 for two and $325 for three; packages of 10 treatments cost $1,195 for one body part, $1,795 for two and $2,495 for three. 2  VelaShape is considered a cosmetic procedure, so it typically is not covered by health insurance. Tweet. VelaShape, which sometimes is referred to as skin rejuvenation, is an FDA-approved treatment for smoothing skin and reducing cellulite on the body.