Report Abuse. It varies a lot depending on the drops they used, and the concentration, as well as your own eyes. It could last anywhere from 4 hours to 24 hours...and has been known to last longer in rare cases. The average is 4 to 8 hours though.
Sadly, there is no hard rule for how long your eyes stay dilated. We tell patients it can last for three hours on average, but it could be very different for you. The truth is that length of time can vary from 45 minutes for one lucky person, to all day long for another – and occasionally even into the next day. So if you find your pupils are still dilated the day after your eye exam, don’t panic!
Your doctor will use eyedrops to widen (dilate) your pupils. This makes it easier to see the back of the eye. Your doctor may also use eyedrops to numb the surface of your eyes. It takes about 15 to 20 minutes to fully dilate the pupils. The dilating eyedrops may make your eyes sting. 
It normally takes 20 – 30 minutes for the eyes to dilate. It then just takes 5 - 10 minutes for the doctors to examine them. The pupils will remain larger than normal for 4 – 6 hours causing increased light sensitivity but vision is back to normal usually within the hour. Goering or Hageman to have a better view inside your eye to make sure your eyes are healthy. It is much like opening a door to see inside a room instead of looking in through a small window. With dilation, one can see the optic nerve head, blood vessels, the macula and out to the periphery of the retina.
Best Answer: Generally, dilation of the pupil will last for three to six hours and will primarily affect your near or close up vision. However, it is not uncommon for dilation to last up to 24 hours for some patients depending on the eye drops used to achieve dilation. It varies a lot depending on the drops they used, and the concentration, as well as your own eyes. It could last anywhere from 4 hours to 24 hours...and has been known to last longer in rare cases. The average is 4 to 8 hours though.
Q: I had my eyes dilated yesterday pre-op How long for dilated eyes to return to normal for LASIK surgery. It has been 28 hours now and my eyes are still dilated. I had my eyes dilated yesterday pre-op for LASIK surgery. It has been 28 hours now and my eyes are still dilated and really dry. I had my eyes dilated at the opthalmologist's office about 7 hours ago. The pupil in How long for dilated eyes to return to normal my left. Storr-Paulsen A, Larsen M. Long-term results of extracapsular cataract extraction with. Pupil still dilated after surgery for my eye to return to normal after my cataract surgery.
Getting your eyes dilated for the first time is a strange feeling. I’ve already explained why North Cascade Eye Associates will dilate during your regular exam in a previous blog, but there are still plenty of questions to answer about it – even experienced patients want reminders sometimes. The truth is that length of time can vary from 45 minutes for one lucky person, to all day long for another – and occasionally even into the next day. So if you find your pupils are still dilated the day after your eye exam, don’t panic!
These usually take about 20 minutes to take effect, at which time the doctor will see you. The doctor will use a slit lamp (a sophisticated microscope) to examine the health of your eyes, from the surface (cornea) to the back (retina). The dilating drops that we typically use last, on average, 4-6 hours before they wear off. Occasionally, we use longer lasting eye drops in younger children, which can last approximately 24 hours. Most people do feel comfortable to drive after their pupils have been dilated.
Your eye sight may be affected as long as 1-2 days, though, in most cases, your eyes will return to normal within 4. How long does it take for a pupil to go back to normal size after being dilated with eye drops? . take about 3-6 hours to return to normal after being dilated. Hi, How long does it take for pupils to return to normal size after being dilated? I had my eyes dilated at the opthalmologist's office about 7 hours ago. The pupil in How long for dilated eyes to return to normal my left. Storr-Paulsen A, Larsen M. Long-term results of extracapsular cataract extraction with. Pupil still dilated after surgery for my eye to return to normal after my cataract surgery.
Adults may expect gradual return of normal vision over 4-8 HOURS .Children will likely require a day (or rarely two or three) for complete return of normal vision and pupil size. Some eyes are just more sensitive to the eye drops and remain dilated for several days. Best Answer: DILATION OF THE PUPILS The most common procedure performed to diagnose vision problems is dilation of the pupils.