Denodo Technologies is a software company with headquarters located in Palo Alto, CA (USA) and main offices in A Coruna (Coruña), Spain (Madrid) spain And (LONDON). Uk denodo provides a data integration and data virtualization software platform Called Denodo, platform as well as, support, training and consulting. services The Denodo Platform won the InfoWorld 2009 Technology of the Year award in the Best Mashup Server category.
The Denodo Platform is a middleware software platform for the (virtual) integration of data of diverse natures coming from several kinds of sources (databases, web, delimited files...). This software can be applied in scenarios like those involving SOA, Web automation or Web crawling. The Denodo Platform won the InfoWorld 2009 Technology of the Year award in the Best Mashup Server category.
Denodo. Denodo, the leader in Data Virtualization, provides a common enterprise data layer that enables organizations to better harness all of their data and deliver faster, agile information to business in every industry. Our global customers leverage the Denodo Data Virtualization platform to address a broad spectrum of use cases, including Big Data analytics and agile BI solutions using canonical business views of data.
Chandrasekaran: One of the key things that Denodo does is that we have a much broader vision of what data virtualization is than has been typical in this market. The data virtualization market sort of grew out of data federation and enterprise information integration technologies. Chandrasekaran talked about how Denodo's approach is different from Composite's and the rest of the competition's. He also talked about the growing demand for data virtualization software and how the technology fits in with big data implementations.
Denodo Wins the 2015 DBTA Readers' Choice Award for Best Data Virtualization Solution. Denodo’s Customers Have Gained Significant Business Agility and ROI by Creating a Unified Virtual Data Layer That Serves Their Strategic Enterprise-Wide Information Needs. Any primary, derived, integrated or virtual data source can be made accessible in a different format or protocol than the original, with secure access in a matter of minutes. Changes to the sources, integration or output data services take minutes to accomplish.
Denodo Technologies is a software company with headquarters located in Palo Alto, CA (USA) and main offices in A Coruna (Coruña), Spain (Madrid) spain And (LONDON). uk The Denodo Platform won the InfoWorld 2009 Technology of the Year award in the Best Mashup Server category.
Data virtualization is synonymous with information agility-it delivers a simplified, unified, and integrated view of trusted business data in real time or near real time as needed by the consuming applications, processes, analytics, or business users. 1 is not a Logical Data Warehouse. 2  Logical DWH is an architectural concept and not a platform. 3  Data Virtualization is an essential technology used in creating a logical DWH by combining multiple data sources, data warehouses and big data stores like Hadoop. 4  is not data federation.
The Denodo Community is where customers, partners and users have access to information that can help them learn about the Denodo Platform, Denodo Express and Data Virtualization. Join us and start building agile data solutions the modern way. 
Denodo Technologies Inc. Denodo Technologies is another leading data virtualization software vendor that is focused on virtualization data for use in both business intelligence and application development activities. Chandrasekaran talked about how Denodo's approach is different from Composite's and the rest of the competition's. He also talked about the growing demand for data virtualization software and how the technology fits in with big data implementations.
FLEXIBLE. Denodo's platform promotes delivering flexible API and agile data services provisioning to access complex underlying data sources. Any primary, derived, integrated or virtual data source can be made accessible in a different format or protocol than the original, with secure access in a matter of minutes. Changes to the sources, integration or output data services take minutes to accomplish.