Egbu is a village in southeastern Nigeria. Also, it is located near the city of Owerri. It lies on the Otamiri River. Egbu is bordered by owerri, awaka and naze and is about ten minutes drive from the capital city Owerri.Egbu as a united people has one leader known as EZE who happens to be the only traditional ruler in the community and the EZE comes from a particullar family known as the EGBUKOLE,S.
Isuama Igbo: type of dialect used in Igbo studies as a standard dialect by emancipated slaves of Igbo origin settled in Sierra Leone and Fernando Po (now part of Equatorial Guinea) in the 1800s (Oraka p. 20). Nwana was the first Igbo to publish fiction in the Igbo language. The first edition was in the Protestant Orthography, but it was soon issued in the other orthographies. In 1963 Longman Nigeria published an Official Orthography Edition transliterated by J. O. Iroaganachi.
The mother of Egbu was Oma. She distributed her children to various areas and they founded Ibi, Aji, Egbu-Oma, Egwe-Oma Uli, Mgbidi-Oma, Eleyi-Oma and Omuma. Prior to this, she planted her water pot at Ibi and the pot is still at the place till today as a mark of unity among her children. The people produce yams, cassava, oranges, and fish in large scale; these are exported to other parts of Imo State and to markets throughout Nigeria. Cocoyams, sweet potatoes, bananas, and plantains are also produced and marketed for cash. There is a lucrative market for firewood in the town.
1828 == Mrs. Hannah Kilham, a Quaker mission teacher, published Specimens of African Languages Spoken in the Colony of Sierra-Leone. Included: Igbo numerals and some 50 Igbo nouns (Oraka p. 22). 1831 == Mrs. Kilham started a girls' school at Charlotte village, Sierra Leone. Nwana was the first Igbo to publish fiction in the Igbo language. The first edition was in the Protestant Orthography, but it was soon issued in the other orthographies. In 1963 Longman Nigeria published an Official Orthography Edition transliterated by J. O. Iroaganachi.
; English /ˈɪɡboʊ/ ; archaically Ibo /ˈiːboʊ/) (Igbo: Asụsụ Igbo), is the principal native language of the Igbo people, an ethnic group of southeastern Nigeria. There are approximately 24 million speakers, who live mostly in Nigeria and are primarily of Igbo descent. The language features vowel harmony with two sets of oral vowels distinguished by pharyngeal cavity size described in terms of retracted tongue root (RTR). These vowels also occupy different places in vowel space: [i ɪ̙ e a u ʊ̙ o ɒ̙] (the last commonly transcribed [ɔ̙] , in keeping with neighboring languages).
A standard literary language was developed in 1972 based on the Owerri (Isuama) and Umuahia (such as Ohuhu) dialects, though it omits the nasalization and aspiration of those varieties. There are related Igboid languages as well that are sometimes considered dialects of Igbo, the most divergent being Ekpeye. The language features vowel harmony with two sets of oral vowels distinguished by pharyngeal cavity size described in terms of retracted tongue root (RTR). These vowels also occupy different places in vowel space: [i ɪ̙ e a u ʊ̙ o ɒ̙] (the last commonly transcribed [ɔ̙] , in keeping with neighboring languages).
Igbo is a tonal language with two distinctive tones, high and low. In some cases a third, downstepped high tone is recognized. The language's tone system was given by John Goldsmith as an example of autosegmental phenomena that go beyond the linear model of phonology laid out in The Sound Pattern of English. The language features vowel harmony with two sets of oral vowels distinguished by pharyngeal cavity size described in terms of retracted tongue root (RTR). These vowels also occupy different places in vowel space: [i ɪ̙ e a u ʊ̙ o ɒ̙] (the last commonly transcribed [ɔ̙] , in keeping with neighboring languages).
1900-29 == Rev. Thomas J. Dennis was the best, most prolific student of Igbo and writer of his time. He used an Igbo Language Translation Committee, including Igbo indigenes, to translate Pilgrim's Progress and some catechisms into Igbo. He also translated the Union Reader and the Union Hymnal. Nwana was the first Igbo to publish fiction in the Igbo language. The first edition was in the Protestant Orthography, but it was soon issued in the other orthographies. In 1963 Longman Nigeria published an Official Orthography Edition transliterated by J. O. Iroaganachi.