Frozen stone crab. claws are best when thawed in the refrigerator for 12-18 hours before using. Nutritional Value: A cooked 3 ounce portion of crab meat contains 60 calories, no fat, 15 gm protein, 45 mg cholesterol, 300 mg sodium, and 4 gm calcium. 
Cooking stone crab claws isn’t difficult, but you want to do it as quickly as you can. This will help keep the crabmeat from adhering to the inside of the hard shell. For three pounds of stone crab claws, bring about a gallon of water to a boil. Add about 2/3 cup sea salt. You might also want to add a mesh bag of crab or shrimp boil, or you can add your own herbs and spices, instead. The choice is up to you. Once the water comes to a full boil, add the stone crab claws. Once the pot returns to the boiling pot, place the lid on and reduce the stove burner to medium. The stone crab claws will need to cook for an additional 8-10 minutes, depending on the size of the claws.
Store cooked crabs and picked meat in the coldest part of your refrigerator or meat keeper at 32 degrees F and use within two days. Stone crab claws that are completely intact (occasionally claws crack during handling) can be frozen at 0 degrees F for up to six months. Thaw frozen stone crab claws in the refrigerator for 12 to 18 hours. If thawed under running. water quality will be lost. Buying, Storage and Handling. Remember to purchase seafood last and keep it cold during the trip home. Stone crab claws are available cooked. Claws are immersed in ice water after harvest, cooked immediately, then immersed in ice water again to prevent the meat from sticking to the inside of the shell.
Step 2: Put the stone crab claws into the water for approximately 5 minutes. You don’t want to submerge them as this can make the meat tough and relatively dry. Instead, you will want to make sure that the meat is juicy and tender for yourself or your guests. Stone crabs are different from regular crabs in a variety of ways, particularly in how they are caught. In comparison to other types of crabs, stone crabs are captured and their largest claws are harvested then they are thrown back into the water.
• Store cooked crabs and picked meat in the coldest part of your refrigerator or meat keeper at 32 degrees F and use within two days. • Stone crab claws that are completely intact (occasionally claws crack during handling) can be frozen at 0 degrees F for up to six months. • Thaw frozen stone crab claws in the refrigerator for 12 to 18 hours. In 2004, nearly 3 million pounds of stone crab claws, with a dockside value of more than $26 million, were harvested in Florida waters. Stone crab claws are cooked immediately after harvest, and sold either fresh cooked or frozen.
Yes. In fact, stone crab claws are cooked once fishermen bring them to shore. They are boiled for about eight minutes and then dipped in cold water to stop the cooking process. All you have to do is crack and dip them in our delicious homemade mustard sauce. We pack our stone crabs in a cooler. For local Miami delivery, we put the claws on a bed of ice. We can even crack them for you if you fall in our local delivery zone. If you live outside Miami, we use gel packs to keep the claws fresh. They are delivered in a cooler by FedEx Standard/Priority Overnight.
The stone crab is then returned to the water where it will regenerate new claws within 18 months. In 2004, nearly 3 million pounds of stone crab claws, with a dockside value of more than $26 million, were harvested in Florida waters. Stone crab claws are cooked immediately after harvest, and sold either fresh cooked or frozen. Fresh cooked can be eaten within three to four days if packed in ice or stored in the coldest part of a refrigerator. Be sure to freeze only claws that are completely intact and free from cracks in the shell
When harvesting stone crab claws, only one claw is removed from each crab and then the little stinker will grow a new claw and 4 to 5 more claws in its natural lifetime. They can even drop one if it is injured or they need to make a quick get away and need to abandon a claw. You gotta love that y’all. If y’all ever the the chance to get your hands on these beautiful stone crab claws, don’t pass them up. Directions: (For Raw Claws). Keep them on ice with lid loose on container till ready to use. They should be cooked within 24 hours, and then have a refrigerated life of 5-7 days.