Biblical context. Origin-English (Hebrew-Oreb, French-Corbin). The raven was the first bird that Noah sent out of the ark. When the prophet Elijah was hidden by the brook Cherith, God commanded the ravens to supply him with food. Ravens were used by Jesus as an example of why people should believe in God. 
English Meaning: The name Corbin is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Corbin is: Raven-haired. French Meaning: The name Corbin is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Corbin is: Raven-haired.
Latin Meaning: The name Corbin is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Corbin is: Raven. American Meaning: The name Corbin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Corbin is: Raven. The name Corbin is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Corbin is: Raven-haired. French Meaning: The name Corbin is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Corbin is: Raven-haired
Corbin /corb-in/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KOR-bin. Possibly a short form of the rare given name Corbinian, or a transferred use of the surname, in origin a nickname meaning crow in Anglo-Norman. Variants are English surnames used as given names. Actor Corbin Bernsen. Kreatif forms: Cirbin, Conbin, Corbinnu
[ 2 syll. cor-bin, co-rb-in ] The baby boy name Corbin is also used as a girl name, but it is much more common for boys. Its pronunciation is K AO RBihN †. Corbin is used predominantly in the English language and its origin is Old French. Corvus (Latin) is an older form of Corbin. The first name is derived from the surname, itself originally a French nickname for someone of raven-colored or dark hair. The French element 'corbin' is ultimately from the Latin 'corvus'. Corbin is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 1980s. At the recent height of its usage in 2011, 0.084% of baby boys were given the name Corbin.
a Hebrew word adopted into the Greek of the New Testament and left untranslated. It occurs only once (Mark 7:11). It means a gift or offering consecrated to God. Anything over which this word was once pronounced was irrevocably dedicated to the temple. Land, however, so dedicated might be redeemed before the year of jubilee (Leviticus 27:16-24). An expression frequently used in the original text of the Old Testament; in the English Bible it occurs in Mark 7:11; compare also Matthew 15:5. It is the most general term for a sacrifice of any kind. In the course of time it became associated with an objectionable practice.
Corbin is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#1253 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Corbin for boys. Corbin entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its highest position of #203 in the U.S. in 2014. Possibly a short form of the rare given name Corbinian, or a transferred use of the surname, in origin a nickname meaning crow in Anglo-Norman. Variants are English surnames used as given names. Actor Corbin Bernsen.
Comments are left by users of this website. They are not checked for accuracy. Corbin is a variation of the Hebrew Korban, which means a gift to or devoted to God. -- mandygirl 7/25/2005. I hope it isn't from the Hebrew Korban-that would make an awful name, it means sacrifice to God or victim. 
The Biblical baby name Corban is Hebrew in origin and it's meaning is a gift or offering consecrated to God. Corban is pronounced kor-ban'. Corban was an offering made to God at the Temple. The Book of Levitucus contains details of each corban and how it is to be presented. 