These fungi are called decomposers. Other fungi utilize living organisms as a food source. These fungi are parasites. Some of these parasites are disease causing organisms or pathogens. Fungi cause some human diseases such as swimmers' ear, athlete's foot, Valley fever, yeast infections, ringworm, and St. Elmo's fire.
Fungi show a great diversity in morphology and habitat. Fungi are heterotrophic organisms, they obtain their nutrients by absorption. The cell wall of fungi are mostly made up of carbohydrate chitin, while the cell wall in plants is made of cellulose. The carbohydrates stored in fungi is in the form of glycogen. 1 The structure of cell wall is similar to plants but chemically the fungi cell wall are composed of chitin. 2  Fungi are heterotrophic organisms. 3  They fungi digest the food first and then ingest the food, to accomplish this the fungi produce exoenzymes. 4  Fungi store their food as starch.
1. Kingdom Fungi includes mushrooms, molds, edible fungi, poisonous fungi, pathogenic fungi, and beneficial fungi such as certain types of yeast. Those organism included within the Kingdom are commonly called fungi. The singularly form is fungus. Organisms in the Kingdom fungi are eukaryotes. Other fungi utilize living organisms as a food source. These fungi are parasites. Some of these parasites are disease causing organisms or pathogens. Fungi cause some human diseases such as swimmers' ear, athlete's foot, Valley fever, yeast infections, ringworm, and St. Elmo's fire.
Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a phylum of fungi. The name comes from zygosporangia, where resistant spherical spores are formed during sexual reproduction. Approximately 1050 species are known. They are mostly terrestrial in habitat, living in soil or on decaying plant or animal material. 
The organisms in kingdom fungi include mushrooms, yeasts, molds, rusts, smuts, puffballs, truffles, morels, and molds. More than 70,000 species of fungi have been identified. T he fungi constitute and independent group to that of plants and animals. 1 The structure of cell wall is similar to plants but chemically the fungi cell wall are composed of chitin. 2  Fungi are heterotrophic organisms. 3  They fungi digest the food first and then ingest the food, to accomplish this the fungi produce exoenzymes. 4  Fungi store their food as starch.
It is also the fruiting body that is used to place fungi into categories: Division, Class, Order, etc. 5. One type of fungus people frequently encounter is the black bread mold, Rhizopus. This fungus is a member of the zygospore-forming fungi (Division Zygomycota). Other fungi utilize living organisms as a food source. These fungi are parasites. Some of these parasites are disease causing organisms or pathogens. Fungi cause some human diseases such as swimmers' ear, athlete's foot, Valley fever, yeast infections, ringworm, and St. Elmo's fire.
Defining mushrooms. All mushrooms are fungi, but not all fungi are mushrooms. For those fungi that produce them, the mushroom plays a similar role to a flower or a fruit in plants. Some part of each mature mushroom produces microscopic spores that are similar to pollen or seeds, sometimes numbering in the trillions [1]. 
A zygospore is a diploid reproductive stage in the life cycle of many fungi and protists. Zygospores are created by the nuclear fusion of haploid cells. In many eukaryotic algae, including many species of the Chlorophyta, zygospores are formed by the fusion of unicellular gametes of different mating types. A zygospore remains dormant while it waits for environmental cues, such as light, moisture, heat, or chemicals secreted by plants.
1). Fungi may not be our next of kin, but they are more closely related to animals than they are to plants. We also recognize that organisms traditionally studied as fungi belong to three very different unrelated groups: the true fungi in Kingdom Fungi (Eumycota), the Oomycetes, and the slime molds (Fig. 1). Fungi are heterotrophs and, like animals, obtain their carbon and energy from other organisms. Some fungi obtain their nutrients from a living host (plant or animal) and are called biotrophs; others obtain their nutrients from dead plants or animals and are called saprotrophs (saprophytes, saprobes).