An oblate spheroid is a famous shape. It is the shape of the Earth and some other planets. It is like a sphere squashed from the top so the diameter from pole to pole is less than the diameter from equator to equator. 
A spheroid, or ellipsoid of revolution, is a quadric surface obtained by rotating an ellipse about one of its principal axes; in other words, an ellipsoid with two equal semi-diameters. The oblate spheroid is generated by rotation about the z axis of an ellipse with semi-major axis a and semi-minor axis c, therefore e may be identified as the eccentricity. (See ellipse). A derivation of this result may be found at. A prolate spheroid with has surface area.
An oblate in Christian monasticism (especially Catholic, Orthodox, Anglican and Methodist) is a person who is specifically dedicated to God or to God's service. Currently, oblate has two meanings: 1 They are comparable to the tertiaries associated with the various Orders of friars.  2 Oblate is also used in the official name of some religious institutes as an indication of their sense of dedication.
1 Oblate is also used in the official name of some religious institutes as an indication of their sense of dedication. 1 They are comparable to the tertiaries associated with the various Orders of friars.  2 Oblate is also used in the official name of some religious institutes as an indication of their sense of dedication.
Benedictine oblates prefer nothing to the love of Christ and oblates support a spirit of gentle community among themselves in their Oblate program at the monastery. Many monasteries have such Oblate programs. An oblation is an offering or gift to God. Oblates are men and women who offer their lives to God. Benedictine oblates maintain a stable and life-long spiritual union with one monastery. Oblates live outside a monastery, wear regular clothes, and often have a spouse and job. 
In the case of the Earth, this middle is the equator. Oblate Spheroid The true shape of the Earth called an Oblate Spheroid. The term Oblate refers to it's slightly oblong appearance. The term Spheroid means that it is almost a sphere, but not quite. One of the most important things to remember about the Earth's shape is that it is only very slightly oblate.
As the oblate is in an individual relationship with the monastic community and does not form a distinct unit with the Catholic Church, there are no regulations in the modern canon law of the Church regarding them. One consequence is that non-Catholic Christians can be received as oblates of a Catholic monastery. 1 They are comparable to the tertiaries associated with the various Orders of friars.  2 Oblate is also used in the official name of some religious institutes as an indication of their sense of dedication.
A squashed spheroid for which the equatorial radius is greater than the polar radius, so (called an oblate ellipsoid by Tietze 1965, p. 27). An oblate spheroid is a surface of revolution obtained by rotating an ellipse about its minor axis (Hilbert and Cohn-Vossen 1999, p. 10). 
An oblate spheroid with has surface area. The oblate spheroid is generated by rotation about the z axis of an ellipse with semi-major axis a and semi-minor axis c, therefore e may be identified as the eccentricity. (See ellipse). A derivation of this result may be found at. A prolate spheroid with has surface area.