Passport 1.4. Passport is a core component of the Microsoft .NET building block services. It enables businesses to develop and offer distributed Web services across a wide range of applications and enables its members to use one sign-in name and password at all participating Web sites. 
Best Answer: Microsoft Passport is a fancy way of saying Your user account for all Microsoft websites and properties. To reset your password, go to this website and enter your e-mail address: https://accountservices.passport.net/uir... Good luck. Source(s): https://accountservices.passport.net/uir... 
What is Microsoft Passport. Broadly speaking, Microsoft Passport consists of 2 services – a single Sign-in service that allows members to use a single name and password to log in, and a Wallet service that members can use to make fast, convenient online purchases. All this is set to change with Microsoft Passport in Windows 10. Right now, the two-factor authentication is optional. Microsoft will make it mandatory for all to use two-factor authentication. It won’t be as tough as it is now. There will be two keys, one with Microsoft and one with the user
.NET Passport overview. A .NET Passport provides you with personalized access to Passport-enabled services and Web sites by using your e-mail address. Passport implements a single sign-in service that allows you to create a single user name and password
Microsoft Passport in Windows 10. Windows Hello is the name Microsoft has given to the new biometric sign-in system built into Windows 10. Because it is built directly into the operating system, Windows Hello allows face or fingerprint identification to unlock users’ devices. All this is set to change with Microsoft Passport in Windows 10. Right now, the two-factor authentication is optional. Microsoft will make it mandatory for all to use two-factor authentication. It won’t be as tough as it is now. There will be two keys, one with Microsoft and one with the user
Microsoft Passport Network is a program operated by Microsoft that focuses on logging their users into all of their accounts at one time, under one name. Microsoft Passport Network is an ongoing project and has had its name, programming and features changed multiple times. 