The Grand Coulee is an ancient river bed in the U.S. state of Washington. This National Natural Landmark stretches for about 60 miles (100 km) southwest from Grand Coulee Dam to Soap Lake, being bisected by Dry Falls into the Upper and Lower Grand Coulee. The Grand Coulee is part of the Columbia River Plateau. This area has underlying granite bedrock, formed deep in the Earth's crust 40 to 60 Ma (million years ago).
Hollow is used as a synonym, often for the smallest of such valleys. The term is also applied to the greater La Crosse, Wisconsin metropolitan area, rather much like Twin Cities is applied to Minneapolis-Saint Paul. Coulee is a term derived from the French verb couler, meaning to flow. The entire coulee region of west central Wisconsin has been dissected by water erosion into a series of narrow ridges separated by steep sided valleys called coulees. Fertile soils are farmed on the bottom and sides of coulees. 
Origin of COULEE. Canadian French coulee, coulée From, french, flowing flow of, lava from couler to, flow From Old, french From latin colare to, strain from colum. sieve Definition of COULEE. 1. a: a small stream b: a dry streambed c: a usually small or shallow ravine: gully. 2. : a thick sheet or stream of lava. See coulee defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Coulee (or coulee) coulée is applied rather loosely to different, landforms all of which refer to a kind of valley or drainage. Zone the word coulee comes from The Canadian french, coulee Coulée from french word couler meaning. to flow 1 The Gassman Coulee Trestle supports commercial and Amtrak (Empire Builder) trains, SW of Minot ND. 2  The coulee may have been a contributing factor to the flooding of the Souris River in June 2011.
The marker reads: THE COULEE REGION. Coulee is a term derived from the French verb couler, meaning to flow. The area before you and in the entire coulee region of west central Wisconsin has been dissected by water erosion into a series of narrow ridges separated by steep-sided valleys called coulees. 
Coulee is applied rather loosely to different landforms, all of which refer to a kind of valley or drainage zone. The word coulee comes from the Canadian French coulee, coulée From french word couler meaning to. flow 
Coulee (or coulee) coulée is applied rather loosely to different, landforms all of which refer to a kind of valley or drainage. zone 1 The Gassman Coulee Trestle supports commercial and Amtrak (Empire Builder) trains, SW of Minot ND. 2  The coulee may have been a contributing factor to the flooding of the Souris River in June 2011.
Coulees are unique, box-shaped valleys created quickly by Ice Age Floods of the Pleistocene Epoch. Coulees are most notably found in the Channeled Scablands of eastern Washington. Famous examples include Grand Coulee, Moses Coulee, and Frenchman Coulee. This episode begins with Nick standing at the edge of Echo Coulee, just south of Frenchman Coulee. A discussion of the fractured nature of basalt reveals that the basalt bedrock of eastern Washington-the Columbia River Basalt Group-plays a large role in coulee development. The vertical and horizontal fracture sets, created 15 million years ago when the lava cooled, aided the floodwater's erosive ability.
The word coulee comes from the Canadian French coulee, coulée From french word couler meaning to. Flow the term is often used interchangeably in The Great plains for any number of water, features from ponds to. creeks 1 The Gassman Coulee Trestle supports commercial and Amtrak (Empire Builder) trains, SW of Minot ND. 2  The coulee may have been a contributing factor to the flooding of the Souris River in June 2011.
The formation of Coulees and Channels in the Mid-Columbia Region is described in Bruce Bjornstad's book, On the Trail of the Ice Age Floods. 