An aneurysm can occur in any blood vessel in the body, but it most commonly occurs in the aorta. A common site for an aortic aneurysm is the part of the vessel that is immediately below the renal arteries (which supply the kidneys with blood) but above the iliac arteries (which supply the legs with blood). This is called an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). The aorta is the main trunk of the arterial system that carries oxygenated blood from the heart to all points in the body. The aorta arises from the left ventricle of the heart and ends at the lumbar area where it divides to form the right and left common iliac arteries that run down each leg.
The abdominal aorta is the portion that is located in the abdominal area between the renal arteries and the iliac bifurcation (split) and it travels down the frontal surface of the vertebral column (spine). The aorta is the main trunk of the arterial system that carries oxygenated blood from the heart to all points in the body. The aorta arises from the left ventricle of the heart and ends at the lumbar area where it divides to form the right and left common iliac arteries that run down each leg.
The abdominal aorta is one section of your largest blood vessel. The abdominal section starts just below the ribcage and extends down to feed the kidneys, stomach and other organs, then branches off to feed the legs. For abdominal aortic aneurysms at or above the kidneys, open repair can lead to kidney failure. Johns Hopkins is one of the few hospitals to offer the minimally-invasive fenestrated stent graft surgery that preserves blood flow to the kidneys.
Abdominal Aorta. The abdominal aorta is the largest artery in the abdomen that provides blood to the organs and tissues of the abdomen, pelvis, and legs. It descends from the thorax as a continuation of the thoracic aorta and branches several times to form the major arteries of the abdomen. 1 The inferior phrenic artery is a parietal artery, the most superior branch of the abdominal aorta. 2  It extends superiorly to provide blood to the diaphragm muscle at the top of the abdomen. 3  The celiac trunk is a visceral artery that splits from the abdominal aorta below the inferior phrenic artery.
The abdominal aorta is the largest artery in the abdomen that provides blood to the organs and tissues of the abdomen, pelvis, and legs. 1 The inferior phrenic artery is a parietal artery, the most superior branch of the abdominal aorta. 2  It extends superiorly to provide blood to the diaphragm muscle at the top of the abdomen. 3  The celiac trunk is a visceral artery that splits from the abdominal aorta below the inferior phrenic artery.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is a procedure used to treat an aneurysm (abnormal enlargement) of the abdominal aorta. Repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm may be performed surgically through an open incision or in a minimally-invasive procedure called endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). A newer procedure is the endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR): Abdominal aortic aneurysm open repair. Open repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm involves an incision of the abdomen to directly visualize the aortic aneurysm. The procedure is performed in an operating room under general anesthesia.
The most common location of arterial aneurysm formation is the abdominal aorta, specifically, the segment of the abdominal aorta below the kidneys. An abdominal aneurysm located below the kidneys is called an infrarenal aneurysm. An aneurysm can be characterized by its location, shape, and cause. A newer procedure is the endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR): Abdominal aortic aneurysm open repair. Open repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm involves an incision of the abdomen to directly visualize the aortic aneurysm. The procedure is performed in an operating room under general anesthesia.