Fungal Metabolites. We now offer a broad range of Fungal Metabolites. Fungal Metabolites are products of the secondary metabolism of many fungal species. These products include many antibiotics and pigments, as well as dangerous phytotoxins and mycotoxins. Our popular products such as FTY720 Phosphate are typically available for immediate shipment
Abstract. The fungi are a kingdom of organisms as complex and diverse as plants and animals with an estimated 1.5 million species, of which only about 10% have been named and described. The diversity of fungi is reflected in the diversity of fungal metabolites which are the products of secondary metabolism. 
Plant secondary metabolism produces products that aid in the growth and development of plants but are not required for the plant to survive. Secondary metabolism facilitates the primary metabolism in plants. This primary metabolism consists of chemical reactions that allow the plant to live. Primary metabolites are compounds that are directly involved in the growth and development of a plant whereas secondary metabolites are compounds produced in other metabolic pathways that, although important, are not essential to the functioning of the plant.
Organisms resilient or resistant to the effects of metabolites thrive; sensitive organisms falter. Microbes use metabolites to regulate the environment in which they live and from this platform they control the function and shape of much of the world’s biodiversity. Microbial metabolites represent an incredibly diverse array of chemistry. Microbes can make molecules that synthetic chemists cannot access. Treatments for fungal infections, parasitic infestations and a range of cancers followed. Today microbial metabolites are also used for therapeutic applications that move beyond controlling infections. Sophisticated enzyme and receptor bioassays have identified new metabolites that act to regulate rather than kill.
Inhiition of one fungus by metabolites expressed by the other. Secondary metabolites are compounds produced by an organism that are not required for primary metabolic processes. Fungi produce an enormous array of secondary metabolites, some of which are important in industry. Many fungi express secondary metabolites that influence competitive outcomes (see above). LINK The compounds are expressed along with enzymes necessary for extracellular digestion. Some metabolites, referred to as toxins, are compounds that have the potential to kill an organism at concentrations we might use. The activity of the metabolites in biological conditions may differ. This page examines the concept of secondary metabolites with a view to elucidate their importance to the fungi.
1 In addition, many of the secondary metabolites of fungi are organic acids, so they help increase the accumulation of humic-acid rich organic matter that is resistant to degradation and may stay in the soil for hundreds of years. 2  Mutualists – the mycorrhizal fungi – colonize plant roots. 
Also, fungi lack an autotrophic metabolism, instead, all fungi are heterochemiotrophic organisms, that is, they use organic and, minorly, inorganic molecules to produce their energy. Fungus (plural) refers to any member of a group of eukaryotic organisms like yeasts and molds. Endergonic denotes a process that takes in energy, as opposed to exergonic, which denotes a process that releases energy. So endergonic metabolism would be the stage of metabo … lism in which energy is taken in. As heterotrophic (do not make our own food in our bodies) animals, we acquire energy from food.
Microbes tailor metabolites to manipulate cellular processes and pathways. Scientists are becoming increasingly aware of the potential for using microbial metabolites as molecular  bioprobes  to investigate processes and pathways at the cellular level and unlock the secrets of how cells work. Treatments for fungal infections, parasitic infestations and a range of cancers followed. Today microbial metabolites are also used for therapeutic applications that move beyond controlling infections. Sophisticated enzyme and receptor bioassays have identified new metabolites that act to regulate rather than kill.
Sexual reproduction in basidiomycetes is similar to that of the ascomycetes. Compatible haploid hyphae fuse to produce a dikaryotic mycelium. However, the dikaryotic phase is more extensive in the basidiomycetes, often also present in the vegetatively growing mycelium. 1 With plants: Fungi have a cell wall and vacuoles. 2  They reproduce by both sexual and asexual means, and like basal plant groups (such as ferns and mosses) produce spores. 3  Similar to mosses and algae, fungi typically have haploid nuclei.