Summary of Food Sources. The most well-known fact about zinc in foods is almost certainly that oysters are rich in zinc. A typical oyster weighing approximately one ounce will contain about 8-9 milligrams of zinc. So two oysters would put you over the WHFoods recommended daily amount of 11 milligrams. In addition to oysters, other shellfish tend to be rich in this mineral, as are many other animal foods. Shrimp, for example, rank as our 10th best WHFoods source of zinc. This task can be a very challenging one. Although there is some amount of zinc in all WHFoods, no individual food ranks as an excellent source of this mineral. Only five foods rank as very good sources, and 24 foods rank as good sources of zinc.
Phytates—which are present in whole-grain breads, cereals, legumes, and other foods—bind zinc and inhibit its absorption [ 2, 12, 13 ]. Thus, the bioavailability of zinc from grains and plant foods is lower than that from animal foods, although many grain-and plant-based foods are still good sources of zinc [ 2 ]. Oysters contain more zinc per serving than any other food, but red meat and poultry provide the majority of zinc in the American diet. Other good food sources include beans, nuts, certain types of seafood (such as crab and lobster), whole grains, fortified breakfast cereals, and dairy products [ 2, 11 ].
The body can get zinc from protein-rich foods such as nuts, pecans, pumpkin seeds, and sunflower seeds. Foods rich in zinc also provide the body with the benefits of proteins. These sources of protein include lamb, chicken, clams, salmon, lobster, crabmeat, pork, and beef. Comment |. Contact |. Print |. A A. Foods rich in zinc can stengthen the immune system and help make hundreds of enzymes in the human body. The best sources of zinc include milk, yeast, peanuts, potato, whole wheat bread, cheese, beans, yogurt, brown rice, wholegrain cereals, etc.
Crab and lobster are both excellent sources of zinc. Per 3-ounce serving, Alaskan king crab packs in 43 percent (6.5 mg), and lobster provides 23 percent (3.4 mg), of the recommended daily value. Certain types of fish, such as sardines, salmon, flounder, and sole, also contain zinc, but in less potent doses. Nuts and Seeds. Nuts and seeds are yet another great source of zinc that will also add some zing to your day. Toss an ounce of pumpkin seeds or pine nuts into your salad for a delightful crunch, plus 15 percent (2.2 grams) and 12 percent (1.8 g) of your daily value, respectively.
*This amount includes sources of zinc from food and supplements. The best sources of zinc are seafood, meat, seeds, and cooked dried beans, peas and lentils. The following table will show you foods which are sources if zinc
Milk and Dairy Foods. In addition to being rich sources of calcium, milk and yogurt are also delicious and nutritious sources of zinc. A 1-cup serving of fat-free or low-fat milk contains 7 percent (1 mg) of the daily value of zinc, while one cup of fat-free or low-fat plain yogurt provides 15 percent (2.2 mg). Nuts and Seeds. Nuts and seeds are yet another great source of zinc that will also add some zing to your day. Toss an ounce of pumpkin seeds or pine nuts into your salad for a delightful crunch, plus 15 percent (2.2 grams) and 12 percent (1.8 g) of your daily value, respectively.