Wiktionary (4.00 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: food (Noun). Any substance that is or can be consumed by living organisms, especially by eating, in order to sustain life. The innkeeper brought them food and drink. food (Noun). Anything intended to supply energy or nourishment of an entity or idea. It is usually of plant or animal origin, and contains essential nutrients, such as carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals. The substance is ingested by an organism and assimilated by the organism's cells in an effort to produce energy, maintain life, or stimulate growth.
Full Definition of CUISINE. : manner of preparing food: style of cooking; also: the food prepared. See cuisine defined for English-language learners. See cuisine defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Learn More About CUISINE. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for cuisine. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of cuisine. Nglish: Translation of cuisine for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of cuisine for Arabic speakers.
For the past few days, I've noticed undigested food in my stool. Occasionally, you may see undigested food fragments in stool. This usually is high-fiber vegetable matter, which isn't digested by the enzymes in your digestive tract. Undigested food in stool generally isn't a problem unless it's accompanied by persistent diarrhea, weight loss or other changes in your bowel habits. If you have such signs and symptoms, consult your doctor. 
What do you mean, Organic? “Organic” is a guarantee about how an agricultural food or fiber product was grown and handled before it reached the consumer. 
High. How you might see it on a label: high calcium, high-fiber. What it means: This term can be used if the food contains 20% or more of the Daily Value of a certain nutrient per serving. Look for this term if you’re trying to get more of a certain nutrient. Other terms that may be used: Rich in, and excellent source of. If you’re watching what you eat to control or lose weight, the most important part of the label is the serving size. It can be found in the Nutrition Facts box on the label. Many people think that low-fat or low-calorie means that they can eat a lot of the food without taking in too many calories.
Cuisine. Cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific culture. Cuisines are often named after the geographic areas or regions that they originate from. A cuisine is primarily influenced by the ingredients that are available locally or through trade. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: cuisine (Noun). a characteristic style of preparing food, often associated with a place of origin. Origin: From cuisine, from cocina, dissimilation of coquina, from coquo.
Examples of CUISINE. 1  a cooking method used in French cuisine. 2  a cuisine based on local ingredients. 3  This restaurant is famous for its spicy cuisine. Learn More About CUISINE. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for cuisine. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of cuisine. Nglish: Translation of cuisine for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of cuisine for Arabic speakers.