Cross-section through a leaf cell. Here is the equation for photosynthesis: carbon dioxide + water (+ light energy) → glucose + oxygen. 'Light energy' is shown in brackets because it is not a substance. You will also see the equation written like this: Plants absorb water through their roots, and carbon dioxide through their leaves. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Photosynthesis is the conversion of light energy into chemical energy by living organisms. The raw materials are carbon dioxide and water, the energy source is sunlight, and the end-products include glucose and oxygen. It is arguably the most important biochemical pathway,[1] since nearly all life depends on it. 
Solar energy is converted into chemical energy. Photosynthesis is the process whereby plants using light energy from the sun convert carbon dioxide and water to glucose sugar and oxygen gas through a series of reactions. The overall equation for photosynthesis is. Light energy from the sun is converted into chemical energy by the production of glucose molecules. Photosynthesis is carried out in the chloroplasts of plant cells using the green pigment chlorophyll. Glucose is produced which is converted into starch. Starch is a polymer made up of repeating glucose units.
Answer by Miloandfudge. Confidence votes 15. The word equation:- Carbon Dioxide + Water = Glucose + Oxygen UN balanced symbol equation:- CO2 + H2O = C6H12O6 + O2 BALANCED symbol equation:- 6CO2 + 6H2O = C6H12O6 + 6O2 Hope this helps! =] The photosynthesis equation in words is carbon dioxide and water requires light energy to produce glucose and oxygen. 
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which in simpler words is the 'fuel' used by all living things. The photosynthesis equation is a chemical representation of the process of photosynthesis which takes place in the chloroplasts. Plants take in carbon dioxide and water to produce glucose (a sugar) and oxygen. The following is the chemical equation, that expalins this process: In chemical language, this is written as, The above chemical equation is read as, Six molecules of carbon dioxide plus six molecules of water, produce one molecule of sugar and six molecules of oxygen. What does the Equation mean: Photosynthesis occurs in two stages.
CO2+H2O→C6H12O6+O2 or carbon dioxide + water (the arrow symbolize light as its catalyst) glucose + oxygen photosynthesis uses the energy of the sunlight to convert water and carbon dioxide into oxygen and high-energy sugars. waterprincess_11794 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
=]    The photosynthesis equation in words is carbon dioxide and water  requires light energy to produce glucose and oxygen. 9 people found this useful. Answer   The word sunlight is above the arrow in the equation for photosynthesis because it is not a reactant or a product. Sunlight is essential, but it is never u … sed up. (In other words you can't run out of sunlight) I got this answer off another web-site. I hope it helped answer your question.
The word equation:-   Carbon Dioxide + Water = Glucose + Oxygen   UNbalanced symbol equation:-   CO2 + H2O = C6H12O6 + O2   BALANCED symbol equation:-   6CO2 + … 6H2O = C6H12O6 + 6O2   Hope this helps! Answer   The word sunlight is above the arrow in the equation for photosynthesis because it is not a reactant or a product. Sunlight is essential, but it is never u … sed up. (In other words you can't run out of sunlight) I got this answer off another web-site. I hope it helped answer your question.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants in which energy from sunlight is used to convert carbon dioxide and water into molecules needed for growth. These molecules include sugars, enzymes and chlorophyll. Light energy is absorbed by the green chemical chlorophyll. 