Imagery associated with early vaporwave included glitch art, Classical sculpture, '90s web design, outmoded computer renderings, stills from movies made to look like they were recorded onto vhs and classic cyberpunk aesthetics. Use of Japanese characters and other non western writing systems is also prominent.
Wednesday, july 24, vaporwave’s facebook fanpage announced that the genre was dead. Vaporwave-seapunk’s retro-futuristic younger brother-however, is a quite young genre, that hasn’t gotten out of internet’s obsure spheres yet and still seems like full of growing potential.
In subsequent years, it gained popularity through websites such as Bandcamp, Soundcloud, Last.fm and 4chan. Daniel Lopatin 's 2010 release, Chuck Person's Eccojams Vol. 1 and James Ferraro 's Far Side Virtual are regarded as a catalyst for the development of the genre.
Vaporwave is a musical genre inspired by electronic dance music (EDM), New Age music and the indie dance genres chillwave and seapunk. Vaporwave is known for its use of Japanese characters in song titles, 80’s smooth jazz and Muzak samples that have been pitch shifted and time stretched with music editing software. The genre has often been described as a satire of corporate and consumerist culture, specifically as a critique of mainstream EDM.
Vaporwave grew out of styles such as seapunk, witch house, and chillwave, as well as related internet communities.
Unlike seapunk, vaporwave is actually “punk,” in that it’s driven by a subversive political objective: undermining the iron grip of global capitalism… by exposing the alienating emptiness underneath its uncanny sheen.
Everything about vaporwave is tied to capitalist sleaze; even its name is a spoof of the term “vaporware,” nonexistent products that companies announce and heavily promote as a corporate strategy to keep their competitors at bay.
Vaporwave. a sick beat with an internet explorer voice. the beat is often hyphy or interesting and very layered with a slow voice over the top. lyrics often consist of the artist rapping about how good their lives are.