Lyme disease is an infection that is spread by ticks. You can get Lyme disease if you are bitten by an infected tick. But most people who have had a tick bite don't get Lyme disease. It's still important to see your doctor if you have a tick attached to you that you can't remove.
Lyme disease (LD) is an infection caused by Borrelia burgdorferi, a type of bacterium called a spirochete (pronounced spy-ro-keet) that is carried by deer ticks. An infected tick can transmit the spirochete to the humans and animals it bites.
Lyme disease is a bacterial infection caused by the bite of an infected deer tick. Untreated, the disease can cause a number of health problems. Patients treated with antibiotics in the early stage of the infection usually recover rapidly and completely.
Share. Lyme disease is a bacterial infection primarily transmitted by Ixodes ticks, also known as deer ticks, and on the West Coast, black-legged ticks. These tiny arachnids are typically found in wooded and grassy areas.
Lyme disease is caused by spiral-shaped bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi (found in the U.S.) and Borrelia afzelii (found in Europe). Two different species of ticks, Ixodes scapularis and Ixodes pacificus, transmit the bacteria to humans via bites.
Lyme disease is a bacterial infection caused by the bite of an infected deer tick. Untreated, the disease can cause a number of health problems. Patients treated with antibiotics in the early stage of the infection usually recover rapidly and completely.
The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States.
Most cases of Lyme disease in Asia are found in Japan, followed by Northwest China and far eastern Russia and Mongolia. Some cases have been diagnosed in Taiwan, Korea and India as well.
Lyme disease is common in the United States. It can also be found in Canada, Europe, and Asia. Lyme disease is caused by bacteria. Infected ticks spread the bacteria by biting people or animals. Two types of ticks carry the Lyme disease bacteria in the U.S. They are: 1  Deer ticks.