Note the name Windows is using to refer to the flash drive (Removable Disk (G:), for example). 3. Double-click on the flash drive to locate the file(s) or folder(s) you want to copy to this computer. Select the files or folders you want to copy by left-clicking on them. To select more than one, hold down the CTRL key while you click and select all of the files or folders you wish to copy. 4. Right-click on the files or folders you have selected and choose Copy. 5. Open My Documents or the location to which you want to transfer files from the flash drive.
1 On your phone open IE, go to https://onedrive.live.com and log in to your OneDrive account. 2  At the bottom click the PC site link to get the full desktop version. 3  Open the folder that contains the photos you want to download. 4  Then go to Folder options and select Download folder. up vote 3 down vote. Here is how you can download multiple photos at once: 1 
The copied file or folder should now appear on your computer under the “My Documents” folder. From here, it can be moved to any desired location on your machine. If the file or folder does not appear in the “My Documents” folder, retry the steps under “How to copy files from a USB Flash drive to your Computer:”. 
1 Link the computer to your account in the desktop application and let your files download automatically. 2  Copy your files manually from a portable storage device (such as a USB or external hard drive) to the Dropbox folder on the new computer. 1 Copy the files from your portable drive into the Dropbox folder. 2  The default location of the folder on your Mac is /Users/yourUserName/Dropbox (such as /Users/Robert/Dropbox). 3  Resume syncing by clicking the Dropbox icon in your menu bar, clicking the gear icon, and selecting Resume Syncing from the menu.
Select Open folder to view files. File Explorer opens. Step 5: Select the files or folders you want to add to your Surface. Step 6: Select Home Copy to and choose a location. For example, choose Documents if the flash drive or memory card contains documents. Copy the files onto a USB flash drive or memory card from another computer. Step 2: Insert the flash drive or memory card into your Surface. To learn where the USB port and microSD card slot are located, see Surface features. Step 3: Tap or click the notification that appears in the upper-right corner of the screen.
Step 1: Copy the files onto a USB flash drive or memory card from another computer. Step 2: Insert the flash drive or memory card into your Surface. To learn where the USB port and microSD card slot are located, see Surface features. Step 3: Tap or click the notification that appears in the upper-right corner of the screen.
1 Drag the iTunes folder from your external drive to the Music folder (Mac) or My Music Folder (Windows) on your new computer. 2  The transfer might take a while if you have a lot of content. 3  Mac: From the external drive to the Music folder: 4  Windows: From the external drive to the Music library: 5  Open iTunes. 1 Drag the iTunes folder in this location onto the desktop. 2  Mac: From the Music folder to the Desktop: 3  Windows: From the My Music folder to the Desktop: 4  Locate the external drive on your new computer: 5  Mac: On the desktop. 6  Windows: In My Computer or Computer.
1 Copy your files manually from a portable storage device (such as a USB or external hard drive) to the Dropbox folder on the new computer. 2  The application will index the files and see that they are the same files in your account. 1 Copy the files from your portable drive into the Dropbox folder. 2  The default location of the folder on your Mac is /Users/yourUserName/Dropbox (such as /Users/Robert/Dropbox). 3  Resume syncing by clicking the Dropbox icon in your menu bar, clicking the gear icon, and selecting Resume Syncing from the menu.
1 Open the OneDrive app. 2  Navigate to the folder where the files you want to download are located. 3  Tap the select icon in the app bar. 4  Tap on each of the files you want to download to mark them. 5  Tap the download icon in the app bar. 6  Select a folder on your phone and tap OK. up vote 3 down vote. Here is how you can download multiple photos at once: 1  On your phone open IE, go to https://onedrive.live.com and log in to your OneDrive account. 2  At the bottom click the PC site link to get the full desktop version. 3  Open the folder that contains the photos you want to download.
Hi Ryan Saitta, You can create folders on the second hard drive (E drive), add the folders to the libraries like documents, music, pictures and videos and thus save files to them making it a default location. Also you can change the location of the folders my pictures, my music, etc. Follow the below steps and check-a. 