Switchboards are used to handle phone calls in a variety of environments. Most emergency response phone numbers route to a switchboard, where an operator will determine where the call should be sent. Might be showing my age a little bit in this post, but my first recollection of a switchboard operator job was the lady in my hometown who processed the calls for the whole town. We had a party line and every call had to go through her in order to be placed.
In addition to handling external phone calls, a switchboard operator also deals with internal communications. When an analyst on the 40th floor picks up the phone to dial a banker on the 50th floor, the call may be routed through a company switchboard, and the analyst may interact with an operator along the way. Might be showing my age a little bit in this post, but my first recollection of a switchboard operator job was the lady in my hometown who processed the calls for the whole town. We had a party line and every call had to go through her in order to be placed.
Telephone operators in a private branch exchange in 1952. In the early days of telephony, through roughly the 1960s, companies used manual telephone switchboards, and switchboard operators connected calls by inserting a pair of phone plugs into the appropriate jacks. Depending on the employment setting, the roles and level of responsibilities of a PBX operator can vary greatly, from performing wake-up calls in a hotel to coordinating emergency responses, dispatching, and overhead paging in hospitals.
A telephone switchboard is a telecommunications system used in the public switched telephone network or in enterprises to interconnect circuits of telephones to establish telephone calls between the subscribers or users, or between other exchanges. Small towns typically had the switchboard installed in the operator's home so that he or she could answer calls on a 24 hour basis. In 1894, New England Telephone and Telegraph Company installed the first battery-operated switchboard on January 9 in Lexington, Massachusetts.
Switchboard Operators, Including Answering Service receive the highest salary in the District of Columbia, where they can earn an average salary rate of just about $33940. Employees with these jobs can receive the best pay in Public Administration, where they earn job pay of $36630. A Switchboard Operator receives an average salary that can range from 16000 - 24000 based on level of experience. Switchboard Operators, Including Answering Service receive a pay level of Twenty Six Thousand dollars annually.
The switchboard was an essential component of a manual telephone exchange, and was operated by one or more persons, called operators who either used electrical cords or switches to establish the connections. Small towns typically had the switchboard installed in the operator's home so that he or she could answer calls on a 24 hour basis. In 1894, New England Telephone and Telegraph Company installed the first battery-operated switchboard on January 9 in Lexington, Massachusetts.
Before the advent of operator distance dialing and customer Direct Dial (DDD) calling, switchboard operators would work with their counterparts in the distant central office to complete long distance calls. Depending on the employment setting, the roles and level of responsibilities of a PBX operator can vary greatly, from performing wake-up calls in a hotel to coordinating emergency responses, dispatching, and overhead paging in hospitals.
Salary for Switchboard Operators, Including Answering Service. Switchboard Operators, including answering service, operate switchboards and telephone systems to handle incoming, outgoing or interoffice calls, supplying information to callers and relaying the message to the appropriate party. A Switchboard Operator receives an average salary that can range from 16000 - 24000 based on level of experience. Switchboard Operators, Including Answering Service receive a pay level of Twenty Six Thousand dollars annually.
Switchboard operators are typically required to have very strong communication skills. Before the advent of automatic exchanges, an operator's assistance was required for anything other than calling telephones across a shared party line. Depending on the employment setting, the roles and level of responsibilities of a PBX operator can vary greatly, from performing wake-up calls in a hotel to coordinating emergency responses, dispatching, and overhead paging in hospitals.