Stuart Banner, a law professor, does not deny that between the early 17th century and the end of the 19th, nearly the entire land area of the United States was transferred from Indian to non-Indian ownership. But in How the Indians Lost Their Land, he offers an avowedly revisionist account of the way this happened. 
The Miami tribe in Indiana is not federally recognized. That means the Miami Indians of Indiana don't have a reservation or their own government. However, they still have traditional Miami leadership and tribal meetings. In the past, the Miami tribe was ruled by two chiefs. The Miami Indians had their original home land in Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Ohio. However, many of them were forced to move to Oklahoma during the Indian Removals. Here is a map showing Miami, Wea, and Piankashaw Indian migrations. Today, there are two Miami Indian communities: one in Indiana, and one in Oklahoma
By 1846, most of the Miami had been removed to Indian Territory (now Oklahoma). The Miami Tribe of Oklahoma is the only federally recognized tribe of Miami Indians in the United States. The Miami Nation of Indiana is an unrecognized tribe. The Miami of Kekionga remained allies of the British, but were not openly hostile to the United States (US) (except when attacked by Augustin de La Balme in 1780). The U.S. government did not trust their neutrality, however.
The Ohio Company purchased land in southeastern part of the territory from the Continental Congress in 1787 and was issued patents in 1792. This company was comprised mainly of Revolutionary officers from Massachusetts. Bounty warrants were used to acquire some of this land. Settlers demanded the government intervene. The new government saw the Northwest Territory as a huge resource--in land and ultimately revenue to pay the government's debts. Conflicting claims --those of the Indians and also of the states stood in the way.
The Miami (Miami-Illinois: Myaamiaki) are a Native American nation originally speaking one of the Algonquian languages. Among the peoples known as the Great Lakes tribes, it occupied territory that is now identified as Indiana, southwest Michigan, and western Ohio. The Miami of Kekionga remained allies of the British, but were not openly hostile to the United States (US) (except when attacked by Augustin de La Balme in 1780). The U.S. government did not trust their neutrality, however.
The Indiana Territory was created by an Act of Congress and signed into law by President John Adams on May 7, 1800, effective on July 4. It was the first new territory created from lands of the Northwest Territory, which had been organized in 1787 by the Northwest Ordinance. In February 1815, the United States House of Representatives began debate on granting Indiana Territory statehood. In early 1816, the Territory approved a census and Pennington was named to be the census enumerator.
In June 1816, a constitutional convention was held and a state government was formed. The territory was dissolved on December 11, 1816, by an act of Congress granting statehood to Indiana. In February 1815, the United States House of Representatives began debate on granting Indiana Territory statehood. In early 1816, the Territory approved a census and Pennington was named to be the census enumerator.
Ignoring Tecumseh's demand to stop all land cessions, the Miami, Delaware, Potawatomi, Kickapoo, Shawnee, and Kaskaskia peace chiefs in September, 1809 sold 3,000,000 acres of southern Indiana and Illinois to the United States at Fort Wayne. The tribal status of the Indiana Miami was terminated by administration order in 1897, but the 1910 census still listed 90 Miami in Indiana. After the Passage of the Indian Reorganization Act (1934), they organized as the Miami Nation of Indians of the State of Indiana in 1937.
The conflicts continued until the 1811 Battle of Tippecanoe, which was won by General, and future president, William Henry Harrison. With a name that is generally thought to mean “land of the Indians,” Indiana was admitted on Dec. 11, 1816, as the 19th state of the union. 