I can't drink only water. I have to have something else.. The Daniel Fast teaches us to deny our selves and instead put our spirit in control over our flesh. As you plan your meals and eat your food, keep in mind that the definition of a fast is to deny food for a spiritual purpose. Tips for the Daniel Fast NO MEATS, TREATS OR SWEETS! Fast with a Purpose Before you begin, decide on the purpose of your fast. Otherwise, without a purpose, you will be merely dieting.
The Daniel Fast is based on the diet eaten by Daniel, an Old Testament prophet taken captive from his home and placed in King’s Nebuchadnezzar’s household. The Daniel diet is an extremely restricted diet designed as a modified fast meant to be followed for a short time, not as a lifetime eating plan. Fats. No processed foods that contain additives are allowed on the diet. Allowed oils include high-quality oils such as canola, coconut, grape seed, olive, peanut and sesame oils, according to Ultimate Daniel Fast. You cannot have butter, lard, margarine or solid shortening.
Fruits and Vegetables. You can eat any type of fruit on The Daniel Fast, including fresh, frozen or canned fruits, as long as they contain no artificial flavoring or coloring. Added sugar also is not allowed. Following the same guidelines, you can also eat any type of vegetable on The Daniel Fast. Fats. No processed foods that contain additives are allowed on the diet. Allowed oils include high-quality oils such as canola, coconut, grape seed, olive, peanut and sesame oils, according to Ultimate Daniel Fast. You cannot have butter, lard, margarine or solid shortening.
There are two references to fasting in the biblical book of Daniel from which the Daniel Fast is drawn. Daniel, chapter 1, describes how Daniel and his three friends ate only vegetables and drank only water. (Daniel 1) At the end of a 10-day trial period, Daniel and his friends appeared healthier than their peers who ate the rich foods from the royal table. The Daniel Fast promotes healthy eating. But if you have specific health concerns, consult with a trusted health care provider before committing to this 10-day (or 3-week) diet.
The Daniel Fast is a Biblically based partial fast* based on two instances of Daniel’s fasting experiences. “Please test your servants for ten days, and let them give us vegetables to eat and water to drink.” (Daniel 1:12). “In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three full weeks. Foods to Avoid on the Daniel Fast. All meat and animal products including but not limited to: beef, lamb, pork, poultry, and fish. All dairy products including but not limited to: milk, cheese, cream, butter, and eggs.
So what do you eat on the Daniel Fast? Essentially just plant-based foods and you only drink water. This includes fresh fruits and veggies, canned fruits and veggies (as long as there is no added sugar, etc), nuts, seeds, and non-processed whole grains, like those found in triscuts. The Daniel Fast is supposed to be more of a cleanse when you eat really simple foods. I don’t know of any desserts that you can make from fruits and veggies (besides just eating fruit). Smoothies that are good for the Daniel Fast:
In Daniel, chapter 10, Daniel fasts again, abstaining from pleasant food, meat, and wine. (Daniel 10) You, too, can gain a healthier body and clearer mind by following this diet fast in moderation. The Daniel Fast promotes healthy eating. But if you have specific health concerns, consult with a trusted health care provider before committing to this 10-day (or 3-week) diet.
Fruits. Fruits are important sources of nutrition to consume on the Daniel Fast. They contain essential vitamins, minerals and antioxidants your body needs to properly function. For example, C and B vitamins are powerful antioxidants that protect your body from free radical invasion and strengthen your immune system. They also contain starch and sugars for added energy during your fast. All fruits are considered good to eat during the 21-day Daniel Fast. Frozen and canned fruits are allowed if they contain zero amounts of preservatives or sugar, reports Daniel-Fast.com.
You can eat peanut butter (as long as the only ingredients in the peanut butter are peanuts and salt). Daniel Fast Dessert Recipes/Daniel Fast Cookie Recipes: The Daniel Fast is supposed to be more of a cleanse when you eat really simple foods. I don’t know of any desserts that you can make from fruits and veggies (besides just eating fruit). Smoothies that are good for the Daniel Fast: Here’s my recipe for a Daniel Fast Smoothie :).