Click on Account Settings.. Cancel your account by clicking on the Cancel My Account or the Close Account button. Your subscription will be cancelled, all of your matches and connections will be deleted, and you will not be able to access anything in your account from that point forward. 
To deactivate automatic renewal on your eHarmony.com account simply log in and choose the settings tab at the top of the page. From there select the account settings option then click the cancel subscription link which will bring you through to the confirmation page. An eHarmony subscription may be canceled at any time by logging into the account and then clicking on My Setting, followed by Account Settings, and then clicking on the Cancel My Subscription option or the Close Account option.
1 Select Account Info at the top left corner of your login dashboard. 2  You'll have to verify by entering your password. 3  In the Account Information screen, click on Manage Apps and Website Connections. 4  Look for eHarmony in the list and click Remove to revoke its access. 1 Log in to your LinkedIn profile. 2  Go to your account settings: https://www.linkedin.com/settings/. 3  Go to Groups, Companies & Applications and click View you applications. 4  Look for eHarmony in the second list. 5  Check the checkbox and click on Remove.
1 Select eHarmony from the list and click Revoke access to complete the process. 2  Log in to your LinkedIn profile. 3  Go to your account settings: https://www.linkedin.com/settings/. 4  Go to Groups, Companies & Applications and click View you applications. 1 Log in to your LinkedIn profile. 2  Go to your account settings: https://www.linkedin.com/settings/. 3  Go to Groups, Companies & Applications and click View you applications. 4  Look for eHarmony in the second list. 5  Check the checkbox and click on Remove.
Turning it off prevents you from viewing match photos and communicating with your matches once your subscription period ends. It also ensures that no further charges will occur on your account. To turn off your account's Auto-Renew feature: 1  Log into your account. 2  Select the My Settings link at the top of the page. 3  Click the Account Settings subheading. 4  Click the Cancel My Subscription link at the bottom of the page to begin the process. 5  Follow through to the confirmation page. At the bottom of the page you will see your subscription information including when your account is: a. Set to expire (if auto renew is off) b. Set to renew (if auto-renew is on). Your account's Auto-Renew feature allows you to enjoy continuous communication with your matches, so you never miss a message.
That’s why eHarmony makes it easy to delete your account – with just a few button clicks, it’s gone. Go to www.eharmony.com and log in (if you haven't already), and click Settings in the top menu. Select Account Settings, and then select Billing. Scroll down to the bottom and click Close Account. Confirm that you want to cancel your account by selecting Yes, close my account. Keep in mind that if you close your account, you will permanently lose both all of your matches and all communication with your matches. 
Delete eHarmony Account, Steps: 1. Access the eHarmony website and log into your account using your email address and password. 2. Click “My Settings” in the top menu. Click “Account Settings.”. 3. Scroll to the bottom of the web page and click “Close Account.”. 4. Review the “Account Information” page and click “Close.” The section includes information concerning services offered by eHarmony and the importance of keeping your profile. 5
1 Look for eHarmony in the list and click Remove to revoke its access. 2  Log in to your Windows Live / MSN account. 3  Go to the account settings page: https://account.live.com/summarypage.aspx. 4  Look for Manage Consent in the additional options. 5  Once you click this, you might be asked to enter your password to validate. 1 Log in to your LinkedIn profile. 2  Go to your account settings: https://www.linkedin.com/settings/. 3  Go to Groups, Companies & Applications and click View you applications. 4  Look for eHarmony in the second list. 5  Check the checkbox and click on Remove.
Cancel your eHarmony subscription by logging into your eHarmony account and clicking on the My Settings button. Click on Account Settings and then on Cancel Subscription. You can cancel your account at any time, but you will not receive a refund for the total amount paid in advance. When your service period ends you will no longer be able to use your eHarmony account.