1 Now taste each of the other foods, and decide which of the above four tastes it’s most like. 2  Place the foods with similar tastes next to each other. ( 3 You will probably come up with four groups of three foods each: three sweet things, three sour things, three salty things, and three bitter things. 1 This is BITTER! 2  These are the four basic tastes: sweet, sour, salty, and bitter. 3  Now taste each of the other foods, and decide which of the above four tastes it’s most like. 4
They may make your face scrunch up like a prune, but sour and bitter foods have a lot to offer for your health. There are definitely no cons to consuming foods that taste sour and/or bitter, says health and nutrition expert Rosanna Lee, who is based in Toronto. Sour foods have natural acids which is why sauerkraut, lemons, and buttermilk taste so sour. Bitterness in foods comes from compounds like amino acids, peptides, and organic or inorganic salts, Lee says. The most common bitter foods include teas, coffees and dark chocolates.
The American diet is unbalanced. It consists of predominantly sweet and sour foods according to MAPI, the Ayurveda health center in Iowa. As a result our bodies are unbalanced and we often feel sluggish and unwell. Bitter foods promote a natural cleansing of the body. By including some of the bitter taste in our diet, whether in specific foods or herbs like turmeric we are cleansing our bodies each day. The Six Tastes For Each Body Type.
· just now. Report Abuse. The bitter taste is perceived by many to be unpleasant, sharp, or disagreeable. Common bitter foods and beverages include coffee, unsweetened chocolate, bitter melon, beer, uncured olives, citrus peel, many plants in the Brassicaceae family, dandelion greens and escarole. Quinine is also known for its bitter taste and is found in tonic water. 
Greens that are well known for their bitter flavor include kale, dandelion greens, and broccoli. Cocoa is another food that is enjoyed for their bitter flavor. Pure cocoa has a distinc bitterness, which can be used to balance flavors like sweet or spicy in other foods. Adding sugar and cream to cocoa significantly reduces its bitterness, making it more palatable.
Supposedly, cabbage, brussel sprouts and kale are bitter. Cucumbers can be bitter, but aren’t always. Some vinegar is bitter, as well, but I would guess many kids can’t get over “sour!”. You could do a tasting of bittersweet/unsweetened chocolate compared to semisweet. A cucumber that’s grown without enough water can be really bitter, especially with the skin on. Jeruba (41951) “Great Answer” (2) Flag as… ¶. Really bad chocolate. Seriously; I tried some super bitter chocolate: 86% cacao or something along those lines.
Bitter foods, such as asparagus, bitter melon, wild cucumber, celery, coffee, grapefruit peel, kohlrabi, lettuce and vinegar are believed to promote health by reducing body heat and drying body fluids. 
Popular in the tropical regions of the Caribbean, South America, Africa and Asia, bitter melon resembles a small cucumber with bumpy skin. It's a significant ingredient in the diet of the Okinawans, who have some of the longest life expectancies. 
There are a wide variety of bitter foods and herbs. Some of them are best taken as a tea to help your body register the bitter taste to get the digestive juices flowing. Some better foods and herbs include: 1  Kale. 2  Dark chocolate. 3  Coffee. 4  Nettles. 5  Dill. 6  Sesame. 7  Dandelion
Besides the taste, sour and bitter foods also have different components. Sour foods have natural acids which is why sauerkraut, lemons, and buttermilk taste so sour. Bitterness in foods comes from compounds like amino acids, peptides, and organic or inorganic salts, Lee says. The most common bitter foods include teas, coffees and dark chocolates. Adding salt is a great technique to neutralize bitterness, while adding sugar can help to mask a bitter taste, she say