2.5 - 3 caliper = approx. 10-12ft tall. A clump tree or evergreen tree is measured by height. A clump tree, like a River Birch, is a close group of trees with multiple trunks. A 10-12' Tall Clump River Birch means that the size of the tree will range from 10 to 12 feet tall at the time of planting.
Tree diameter is measured at 4.5 feet above the ground on the uphill side of the tree and this is referred to as “di-ameter at breast height” or “DBH.” DBH provides a standardized (and convenient) location to measure tree diameter. Tree volume can be determined by combining tree diameter with tree height. Knowing tree volume can have economic implications, because timber is bought and sold by the board foot, a measure of wood volume equivalent to a board that is 12 inches by 12 inches by 1 inch.
Once a tree's caliper exceeds 4 inches, the tree is measured at a height of 12 inches. All legitimate nurseries and garden centers in the United States use these specific standards to measure tree caliper. Standards for Measuring. Arborists in a landscape measure tree caliper at chest height to compare mature, established trees. This measurement is generally made 4 1/2 to 5 feet above the soil. In the nursery trade, caliper measurements are not arbitrary. National standards exist for exactly where a tree must be measured.
Balled and bur lapped trees are measured by their caliper. The caliper of a tree is measured by the thickness of the trunk, so a 2 caliper tree means that the trunk is 2 inches across. The height ranges depending on the tree. Typically, a 2 shade tree is going to be much taller than a 2 ornamental tree, because their height now is relative to their mature height. 10-12ft tall. A clump tree or evergreen tree is measured by height. A clump tree, like a River Birch, is a close group of trees with multiple trunks. A 10-12' Tall Clump River Birch means that the size of the tree will range from 10 to 12 feet tall at the time of planting.
As trees mature they develop large swelling at the base called the trunk flare. This extends quite a way up the trunk in a large tree. Arborists use DBH (diameter at breast height, or 4.5 feet above the ground) to get above the trunk flare and determine a more accurate measurement of the size of the trunk.
Purchase size Tree sizes are measured by height or caliper. Height is used for deciduous trees up to 8 feet tall and for evergreen trees. Caliper, or trunk diameter near the ground, is used for deciduous trees taller than 8 feet. Tree sizes increase by one-quarter-inch or one-half-inch caliper increments. Trees with a caliper of 4 inches or greater are measured 12 inches above ground. Before choosing a tree’s size, it is important to consider where it will be planted, along with its purpose, availability, cost and difficulty of handling.
2 Introduction Tree caliper is an important indicator of growth and yield. In forestry, a metric called “diameter at breast height” has been used to provide an estimate of the volume of timber that can be expected from a tree [Brickell 70]. In shade and fruit tree nurseries, trees are graded and their value is determined primarily by their caliper measurement.
It can be used to measure tree diameter, log diameter, tree height, and Photo courtesy: Billy Thomas When it is important to be very accurate in measuring tree diameter a diameter tape (top) or tree caliper (bottom) can be used to provide readings to the 1/10 of an inch. Tree volume can be determined by combining tree diameter with tree height. Knowing tree volume can have economic implications, because timber is bought and sold by the board foot, a measure of wood volume equivalent to a board that is 12 inches by 12 inches by 1 inch.
Because trees vary in height, it is desirable to measure diameter at the same relative position on the bole. However, this presents difficulties, e.g. a point 5% of the bole height would be 1.5 m above ground in a 30 m tree and 3 m in a 60 m tree. 