The Cocos Plate in the Pacific Ocean is subducted beneath the Caribbean Plate, just off the western coast of Central America. This subduction forms the volcanoes of Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica, also known as the Central America Volcanic Arc. Roughly 3.2 million square kilometers (1.2 million square miles) in area, the Caribbean Plate borders the North American Plate, the South American Plate, the Nazca Plate and the Cocos Plate.
The seismic strain-rate tensor for shallow-focus earthquakes along the Central America volcanic arc since 1700, has a compressive eigenvector with a magnitude of 0.7 × 10 −8 year −1, and oriented in a 357° azimuth. The extensive eigenvector is oriented in a 86° azimuth, with a magnitude of 0.82 × 10 −8 year −1. Earthquakes along the grabens of northern Central America yield a seismic strain-rate tensor whose extensive eigenvector has a magnitude of 2.4 × 10 −8 year −1, oriented in a 109° azimuth. Magnitude and direction are similar to those of the extensive eigenvector for earthquakes along the volcanic arc.
Nicaragua is surrounded by the Caribbean Plate, an oceanic tectonic plate underlying Central America and the Cocos Plate. Since Central America is a major subduction zone, Nicaragua hosts most of the Central American Volcanic Arc. Seismograms are available on the Ineter webseite; for volcanoes check Volcano monitoring stations and Broadband stations. - For lots of interesting info and photos go to Xolo ! Nicaragua: MASAYA O-Web 5 min.
Western section. The western section of the plate includes Central America. The Cocos Plate in the Pacific Ocean is subducting beneath the Caribbean Plate forming the Central America Volcanic Arc with volcanoes in Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica. The Caribbean Plate lies in a complex area with two major plates and two minor plates bordering it. The plate includes oceanic and continental crust. The Caribbean Sea covers most of the plate with Central America and volcanic islands covering the rest.
The Central American Volcanic Arc (often abbreviated to CAVA) is a chain of volcanoes which extends parallel to the Pacific coast line of the Central American Isthmus, from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and down to northern Panama. This volcanic arc, which has a length of 1,500 kilometres (930 mi), is formed by an active subduction zone along the western boundary of the Caribbean Plate. The Central American Volcanic Arc includes hundreds of volcanic formations, ranging from major stratovolcanoes, to lava domes and cinder cones. Some of these have produced large explosive eruptions, like the colossal VEI 6 eruption of the Santa Maria volcano in 1902
Central America. The Central America Volcanic Arc is a chain of volcanoes which extends parallel to the Pacific coast line of the Central American Isthmus, from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and down to northern Panama. Since Central America is a major subduction zone, Nicaragua hosts most of the Central American Volcanic Arc. Seismograms are available on the Ineter webseite; for volcanoes check Volcano monitoring stations and Broadband stations. - For lots of interesting info and photos go to Xolo ! Nicaragua: MASAYA O-Web 5 min.
We determine seismic strain rate of tectonic earthquakes along the Central America Volcanic Arc. We then compare this result to those obtained from earthquakes related to the convergence of the Cocos and Caribbean plates and to earthquakes in the back-arc region of northern Central America. Earthquakes along the grabens of northern Central America yield a seismic strain-rate tensor whose extensive eigenvector has a magnitude of 2.4 × 10 −8 year −1, oriented in a 109° azimuth. Magnitude and direction are similar to those of the extensive eigenvector for earthquakes along the volcanic arc.
Mexico) The Central America Volcanic Arc is a chain of volcanoes which extends parallel to the Pacific coast line of the Central American Isthmus, from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and down to northern Panama. Since Central America is a major subduction zone, Nicaragua hosts most of the Central American Volcanic Arc. Seismograms are available on the Ineter webseite; for volcanoes check Volcano monitoring stations and Broadband stations. - For lots of interesting info and photos go to Xolo ! Nicaragua: MASAYA O-Web 5 min.
Several volcanoes in Central America are currently active, including Arenal, Turrialba, Irazu, Irazú poas Poás In; Costa Rica, Cerro Negro, San cristobal Cristóbal; Concepcion concepción In Nicaragua, Chaparrastique or San Miguel, Ilamatepec or Santa Ana; Izalco In / El, Salvador, Santa maria Santiaguito. pacaya fuego in guatemala This volcanic arc, which has a length of 1,500 kilometres (930 mi), is formed by an active subduction zone along the western boundary of the Caribbean Plate. The Central American Volcanic Arc includes hundreds of volcanic formations, ranging from major stratovolcanoes, to lava domes and cinder cones. Some of these have produced large explosive eruptions, like the colossal VEI 6 eruption of the Santa Maria volcano in 1902.