Gene. Definition. noun, plural: genes. (cell and molecular biology). The fundamental, physical, and functional unit of heredity. Supplement. It is because a gene is a segment of DNA (on a specific site on a chromosome) that is responsible for the physical and inheritable characteristics or phenotype of an organism. It also specifies the structure of a protein, and an RNA molecule. A gene is formerly called a factor.
• GENE (noun). The noun GENE has 1 sense: 1. (genetics) a segment of DNA that is involved in producing a polypeptide chain; it can include regions preceding and following the coding DNA as well as introns between the exons; it is considered a unit of heredity. Familiarity information: GENE used as a noun is very rare
Relating to the form of a gene that is not expressed as a trait in an individual unless two such genes are inherited, one from each parent. In an organism having two different genes for a trait, the recessive form is suppressed by its counterpart, or dominant, form located on the other of a pair of chromosomes. 
The noun MUTATION has 3 senses: 1. (biology) an organism that has characteristics resulting from chromosomal alteration. 2. (genetics) any event that changes genetic structure; any alteration in the inherited nucleic acid sequence of the genotype of an organism. 3. a change or alteration in form or qualities. 
Definition of Gene Expression. A gene is a small piece of genetic material written in a code and called DNA. Each gene has within it a set of instructions for making molecules that organisms need to survive. Genes themselves cannot be used by an organism. Instead they must be turned into a gene product
Gene expression is the first stage of a process that decodes what the DNA holds in a cell. It is the expression of a gene that gives rise to a protein. A gene is a region of DNA that produces a functional RNA molecule. If a region of DNA is not functional, that region is not a transmissible form of information for protein synthesis. And because the information is not transmissible, it is not readily functional. There are various sizes of gene.
gene [BACK TO TOP]. Meaning: (genetics) a segment of DNA that is involved in producing a polypeptide chain; it can include regions preceding and following the coding DNA as well as introns between the exons; it is considered a unit of heredity. The noun GENE has 1 sense: 1.
1 Genetic = The length of DNA of the gene responsible for a trait has been identified and its sequence determined. 2  Genetic = the gene responsible for a trait has been sequenced, and we know the molecular biology of how the gene product works and how mutations in it produce different results. An allele represents one or more DNA sequences in a gene that produces a particular phenotypic result. Several different mutations might cause a gene to produce a defective protein. All of these mutations might be lumped into a single allele-the gene in a form that produces
gene. A segment of DNA, occupying a specific place on a chromosome, that is the basic unit of heredity. Genes act by directing the synthesis of proteins, which are the main components of cells and are the catalysts of all cellular processes. Much of the answer lies in the genes, the basic units of heredity. Each gene is a specific segment of DNA, occupying a fixed place on a chromosome. Genes contain the chemical information needed to create different kinds of proteins.