Chapter 16: Windowed-Sinc Filters. Windowed-sinc filters are used to separate one band of frequencies from another. They are very stable, produce few surprises, and can be pushed to incredible performance level
The rectangular function, the frequency response of the sinc filter. In signal processing, a sinc filter is an idealized filter that removes all frequency components above a given cutoff frequency, without affecting lower frequencies, and has linear phase response. The filter's impulse response is a sinc function in the time domain, and its frequency response is a rectangular function. It is an ideal low-pass filter in the frequency sense, perfectly passing low frequencies, perfectly cutting high frequencies; and thus may be considered to be a brick-wall filter. The sinc filter is not bounded-input–bounded-output (BIBO) stable. That is, a bounded input can produce an unbounded output, because the integral of the absolute value of the sinc function is infinite. A bounded input that produces an unbounded output is sgn(sinc(t)).
That is, a triangle of length n is a weaker filter than a boxcar of the same length. A common way to measure the power of a filter is by the half-power point, which is the point where the frequency response function equals 0.5. These values are x=0.60335 for sinc(x) and x=0.44295 for sinc^2(x). 
How to order your own hardcover copy. Windowed-sinc filters are used to separate one band of frequencies from another. They are very stable, produce few surprises, and can be pushed to incredible performance levels
Order from Amazon.com. Windowed-sinc filters are used to separate one band of frequencies from another. They are very stable, produce few surprises, and can be pushed to incredible performance levels
HDL Inverse Sinc Filter. Open This Example. This example illustrates how to generate HDL code for an inverse sinc (sin x/x) peaking filter that adds preemphasis to compensate for the inherent sinc response of the digital-to-analog converter (DAC). The input is a 10-bit video signal and the output is scaled to accommodate the gain of the inverse sinc response. You designed an inverse sinc filter to meet the given specification. You generated Verilog code and a Verilog test bench using an approximation of a video line as the test stimulus. You can use an HDL Simulator, to verify these results. You can also experiment with VHDL and Verilog for both filters and test benches
16-3b, the cutoff frequency of the windowed-sinc filter is measured at the one-half amplitude point. Why use 0.5 instead of the standard 0.707 (-3dB) used in analog electronics and other digital filters? This is because the windowed-sinc's frequency response is symmetrical between the passband and the stopband. For instance, the Hamming window results in a passband ripple of 0.2%, and an identical stopband attenuation (i.e., ripple in the stopband) of 0.2%. To design a windowed-sinc, two parameters must be selected: the cutoff frequency, f c, and the length of the filter kernel, M. The cutoff frequency is expressed as a fraction of the sampling rate, and therefore must be between 0 and 0.5.
The ' Lanczos ' filter basically uses the first 'lobe' of the Sinc() function, to window the Sinc() function. That is, the filter's weighting function is used to set the filter's own windowing function. Many people see this as being a good reason to select it over the many other Windowed Sinc Filters. 