All in all, Disaster Recovery or DR is, without a doubt, not similar BCP because: 1. BCP stands for Business Continuity Planning whereas DR is Disaster Recovery. 2. BCP is a proactive strategy whereas DR is a reactive approach. 3. BCP helps prevent and anticipates a disaster or unfavorable incident in advance whereas DR is a strategy that treats or recovers from disasters and the like.
You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. A lot of people use the terms disaster recovery (DR) and business continuity (BC) plans interchangeably, but technically there is a difference. A disaster recovery plan is more reactive while a business continuity plan is more proactive. 
Difference Between DRP and BCP Explained. The differences between Disaster Recovery Plans and Business Continuity Plans are not very clear in actual usage. Different companies sometimes use these terms differently and, at times, interchangeably. Technically the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) refers to the means by which loss of business may be avoided and it ought to define the business requirements for continuity of operations.
The primary purposes of a Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) are as following: 1  Prevention (pre-disaster): The pre-planning required — using mirrored servers for mission critical systems, maintaining hot sites, training disaster recovery personnel – to minimize the overall impact of a disaster on systems and resources. Different companies sometimes use these terms differently and, at times, interchangeably. Technically the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) refers to the means by which loss of business may be avoided and it ought to define the business requirements for continuity of operations.
The issue of Business Continuity certainly arises when Disaster Recovery is required. In short we can say that Disaster Recovery Plans addresses the procedures to be followed during and after the loss where as BCP is the preemptive process put in place in preparation for the handling of a disaster. Different companies sometimes use these terms differently and, at times, interchangeably. Technically the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) refers to the means by which loss of business may be avoided and it ought to define the business requirements for continuity of operations.
BCP: Business Continuity Planning is concerned with keeping business operations running-perhaps in another location or by using different tools and processes-after a disaster has struck. DRP: Disaster Recovery Planning is concerned with restoring normal business operations after the disaster takes place. Tip BCP and DRP: A simple illustration. Here’s the scenario: The business in question is a delivery service with one delivery truck that delivers goods around the city.
The big difference between BCP and DR plan is that a DRP will specify how the recovery of a function will be performed. Within a DR plan, there will be individual component system recovery plans that would specify steps to recover applications. There is a hierarchy of planning for disasters that produces these two plans; Business Impact Analysis Business Continuity Plans Disaster Recovery Plans. As you can see, the BCP leads in to a DRP. The explanation is in the name – a BCP is all about how the Business continues to operate if something goes wrong.
Disaster recovery and business continuity plans are just as important as business and marketing plans. Unlike the business and marketing plans, the disaster recovery and business continuity plans provide detailed strategies on how the business will continue after severe business interruptions and disasters. 
The primary objective of Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) is to enable an organization to survive a disaster and to continue normal business operations. In order to survive, the organization must assure that critical operations can resume/continue normal processing. Different companies sometimes use these terms differently and, at times, interchangeably. Technically the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) refers to the means by which loss of business may be avoided and it ought to define the business requirements for continuity of
The difference between BCP and DR. The two terms of BCP and DR are frequently in use, and they are often confused for each other. There is a hierarchy of planning for disasters that produces these two plans; Business Impact Analysis Business Continuity Plans Disaster Recovery Plans. As you can see, the BCP leads in to a DRP. The explanation is in the name – a BCP is all about how the Business continues to operate if something goes wrong. It is important to ensure that the ownership of this plan is with the business, as this drives the focus of the document