Overall, reupholstering a chair can be expensive but the finished product is worth it. When you see how new and fresh the chair looks when it is finished, you will be amazed. Just make sure that you find an experienced and affordable shop to go to for your reupholstering needs. How Much Does a Window Cost.
How much is it? 1  On average, chair reupholstery can cost anywhere from $40 to as much as $400. 2  For example, a barrel back chair’s reupholstery price can be anywhere from $275 to $325. 3  Reclining chairs that need to be reupholstered can cost anywhere from $300 to $435. 4  For example, CorrectionEnterprises.com provides reupholstery services and they ...
1 The main factors are the type of chair, its shape, and the material that is used to fix the chair. 2  The size of the chair on which reupholstery is necessary can also affect the price of the procedure. 3  For example, a barrel back chair’s reupholstery price can be anywhere from $275 to $325.
1 On average, chair reupholstery can cost anywhere from $40 to as much as $400. 2  Various factors can affect the price of chair reupholstery. 3  The main factors are the type of chair, its shape, and the material that is used to fix the chair.
After you have the chair that you want reupholstered, you need to figure out how much material it will take to cover the chair. If it is a larger chair or it requires the entire piece to be covered with material, then it will obviously cost more.
1 The common dining chair usually costs $40 to $45 for the seat or back only, while a dining chair seat and back that will be reupholstered can cost anywhere from $85 to $175.
1 For example, a barrel back chair’s reupholstery price can be anywhere from $275 to $325. 2  The common dining chair usually costs $40 to $45 for the seat or back only, while a dining chair seat and back that will be reupholstered can cost anywhere from $85 to $175.
If you decide, however, to have a chair seat reupholstered by a professional, Alger said it would cost between $35-$55 per chair, for labor, fabric, new padding and foam, plus a decorative welt around the edge of the cushion. Time: 2-3 hours.
Get an idea of how much fabric you will need and go to the store for the materials yourself. You can often find budget fabric or something on clearance that you will fall in love with. Fabric doesn’t have to be $100 a yard for it to steal your heart.
For an average dining room chair that is mostly hard-backed and wooden, one that you only need to have the seat and back redone, you are looking at a cost of around $80 to $150 based on what kind of fabric you want and where you go to have it done.