Ductless air conditioning is one of the less expensive HVAC system options for adding permanent air conditioning to homes that do not have ductwork installed. This is the case with many older homes that just have baseboard heating or radiators installed. Once the ductless air conditioner is turned on, it works pretty much in the same way a regular central air system would work. The only exception is that it works without the ductwork and additional equipment that would be installed in the home for central air.
Components. Ductless air conditioning systems are made up of two main units. The first is a cooling unit situated inside the home and a compressor unit located outside. The two units are linked by a conduit, which contains a condensate drain, suction tubing, refrigerant tubing and power cable. Function. The ductless air conditioning system is designed with a pair of refrigerant lines that run between the outside unit and the inside unit. The first of these supplies electricity, while the second takes away water, or condensate.
Ductless Mini-Split Air Conditioners. A ductless mini-split air conditioner is one solution to cooling part of a house. | Photo courtesy of ©iStockphoto/LUke1138. Ductless, mini split-system air-conditioners (mini splits) have numerous potential applications in residential, commercial, and institutional buildings. 
Shopping for a ductless air conditioner: 1  A ductless unit is a split system just like central air, only smaller and more flexible. 2  The compressor sits outdoors and is connected by a pair of refrigerated lines to one or more air handlers inside the house. 1 A ductless unit is a split system just like central air, only smaller and more flexible. 2  The compressor sits outdoors and is connected by a pair of refrigerated lines to one or more air handlers inside the house. 3  The hole in the wall for the lines varies, but is usually about 3 inches in diameter
If your house already has insulated ductwork, air conditioning can be added to the existing furnace. If your house is without ducts, look into a high velocity mini-duct system. If you are looking for the oasis theory of cooling one room as opposed to a whole house a split type is a good solution. A: Richard Trethewey replies: A ductless air conditioner, also called a mini-split system, has two major components: a unit mounted on an inside wall that delivers cool air to the room and a unit mounted on the outside of the house.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Ductless air conditioning is a system of cooling the home without the use of central air duct systems. While this can be achieved using window-mounted units, a more efficient technique involves the use of split system air conditioning units. The fan on a ductless air conditioning system can be mounted in the wall, within a drywall ceiling, or in a soffit. These fan units are generally small and unobtrusive, and many offer decorative grilles and covers to help them blend into a home's decor. Décor. Ad these split air conditioners are used in a variety of. settings
Split ductless is a smart way to add air conditioning to a limited number of multiple rooms without having to open up walls to install ductwork—as you would with a central-air system—or install and remove multiple window units each year. Split ductless is more expensive than window or portable air conditioners (professional installation is recommended) but is less expensive than central air if you are cooling only a few rooms.
For our upcoming report on air conditioning, we tested three split-ductless systems with single indoor evaporator units; the systems cost $1,000 to $1,200 each. All did an excellent job cooling and were much quieter indoors and out than window air conditioners; indeed, on the low setting they were barely audible. Split ductless is more expensive than window or portable air conditioners (professional installation is recommended) but is less expensive than central air if you are cooling only a few rooms.