Roth IRA vs. 529 College Savings Plan. Most individuals won’t be able to fully fund their child’s college expenses with a Roth IRA because of the maximum IRA contribution limits : $5,000 annually ($6,000 if you’re 50 and older). 1 If you contribute to a Roth IRA and qualify for the Saver’s Credit, you could get a break on your taxes. 2  On the other hand, contributions to a 529 plan or other college savings plans are not eligible for this credit.
He’s contributed $2,000 to his Roth IRA every year since his daughter Sarah was born. Now that Sarah is 18, Dan’s Roth IRA holds $36,000 in contributions and its total value is $68,000. Dan can withdraw up to $36,000 without taxes or penalties at any time for any reason, including to pay for Sarah’s college education. 1 If you contribute to a Roth IRA and qualify for the Saver’s Credit, you could get a break on your taxes. 2  On the other hand, contributions to a 529 plan or other college savings plans are not eligible for this credit.
Another benefit of IRAs is that your child may be able to tap into the account for qualified higher education expenses and up to $10,000 towards a down payment on a first home without penalty. With a Roth IRA, you can withdraw any contributions, but not the investment earnings, for any reason without tax or penalty. The money grows tax free while it’s in either a traditional or Roth IRA. If you claim your child as a dependent, he may be required to file an income tax return of his own if his income exceeds a certain amount set by the IRS ($6,100 for 2013).
The $500 contribution you make is not tax-deductible but, like the Roth IRA, you can withdraw it tax-free for your child's college education. (As a matter of fact, it can be transferred to another family member if the one for whom it's intended doesn't use it. The $500 maximum that you could invest yearly in an Education IRA is in addition to that $2,000. (As of this writing, there is a movement afoot to get that $500 per year limit raised to $2,000 per year. However, right now that raised limit is but a gleam in the eye of brokers and lobbyists.).
The Education IRA. The Education IRA is in a category all its own. You could have a traditional IRA as well as a Roth IRA, but you could only invest a total of $2,000 yearly into both of them. The $500 maximum that you could invest yearly in an Education IRA is in addition to that $2,000. (As of this writing, there is a movement afoot to get that $500 per year limit raised to $2,000 per year. However, right now that raised limit is but a gleam in the eye of brokers and lobbyists.).
You can take a distribution from your IRA before you reach age 59½ and not have to pay the 10% additional tax if, for the year of the distribution, you pay qualified education expenses for: yourself; your spouse; or. your or your spouse's child, foster child, adopted child, or descendant of any of them. If your IRA distribution is equal to or less than your adjusted qualified education expenses, you are not subject to the 10% additional tax. Example 1. In 2014, Erin (age 32) took a year off from teaching to attend graduate school full-time. She paid $5,800 of qualified education expenses from the following sources.
The tax breaks for a Roth IRA are different. Again, you can put in up to $2,000 a year. But the money isn't tax-deductible. Taking the above example, you'd still be taxed on $30,000 even though you had put the same $2,000 into a Roth IRA. The $500 maximum that you could invest yearly in an Education IRA is in addition to that $2,000. (As of this writing, there is a movement afoot to get that $500 per year limit raised to $2,000 per year. However, right now that raised limit is but a gleam in the eye of brokers and lobbyists.).
If you limit your withdrawals from a Roth IRA to just the contributions, the distribution is tax and penalty free when used for qualified higher education expenses. Funds in a traditional IRA are sheltered from the financial aid need analysis, and so have no impact on financial aid eligibility. Normally, if you withdraw money from a traditional or Roth IRA before you reach age 59-1/2, you would pay a 10% early distribution penalty on the distribution, in addition to any regular income tax due. There is, however, an exception for distributions used to pay qualified higher education expenses.
So, for instance, if you contribute $5,000 a year to a Roth IRA for the next 10 years before your child goes to college (and take no distributions in the interim), at the very worst, you'd be able to take $50,000 tax and penalty free from your Roth IRA. 3. Roth IRAs may provide the same tax-free treatment for distributions. The primary purpose of contributing funds to a 529 plan is to be able to enjoy tax-free distributions for education purposes, but a Roth IRA often provides the exact same tax benefits.