The tassel is the top most part of a corn plant --you can see them in the picture to the lower left. As DE-tasselers, we walk down a row of corn and pull the top part of the plant off and drop it to the ground. 
How to Make a Tassel. This is a quick tutorial on how to make a tassel. This tassel was used to attach to the mortarboard of a Graduation Teddy I made, but you can use tassels as a finishing feature to decorate other items as well, such as carpets and drapes. Choose what colours you would like your tassel to be comprised of using embroidery floss or yarn.
A tassel is primarily an ornament, and was at first the casual termination of a cord to prevent unraveling with a knot. As time went on, various peoples developed variations on this, until by the 16th century in France the first Guild of Passementiers was created and documented the art of passementerie. The tassel was its primary expression, but it also included fringes (applied, as opposed to integral), ornamental cords, galloons, pompons, rosettes, and gimps as other forms. Tassels, pompons, and rosettes are point ornaments; the others are linear ornaments.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tassel (Noun). A ball-shaped bunch of plaited or otherwise entangled threads from which at one end protrudes a cord on which the tassel is hung, and which may have loose, dangling threads at the other end. 
A tassel is a finishing feature in fabric and clothing decoration. It is a universal ornament that is seen in varying versions in many cultures around the globe. The tassel was its primary expression, but it also included fringes (applied, as opposed to integral), ornamental cords, galloons, pompons, rosettes, and gimps as other forms. Tassels, pompons, and rosettes are point ornaments; the others are linear ornaments.
The bottom left picture shows a corn plant with the tassel fully opened or out, and the middle picture is one with the tassel stilled rolled up in the top leaves of the corn plant. This middle picture is normally what the plant looks like when we actually detassel, or remove the tassel from the plant. The corn tassel is the part of the plant where the pollen comes from, see bottom left picture. The pollen is what is used to actually pollinated the ear of corn which causes the ear of corn to grow.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The tassel of a corn plant. Detasseling corn is removing the pollen-producing flowers, the tassel, from the tops of corn (maize) plants and placing them on the ground. It is a form of pollination control, employed to cross-breed, or hybridize, two varieties of corn. Fields of corn that will be detasseled are planted with two varieties of corn
Definition of TASSEL for Kids. 1. : a hanging ornament (as on clothing) made of a bunch of cords of the same length fastened at one end. 2. : the male flower cluster on the top of some plants and especially corn. 14 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  tassel. 2  tassel bush. 3  tassel-eared squirrel. 4  tassel flower. 5  tassel-gentle. 6  tassel grass. 7  tassel hyacinth. 8  tassel plant. 9  tassel pondweed. 10  red tassel flower. 11  silk tassel. 12  strawberry tassel. 13  white tassel flower. 14  tercel gentle.
Full Definition of TASSEL. 1. : a dangling ornament made by laying parallel a bunch of cords or threads of even length and fastening them at one end. 2. : something resembling a tassel; especially: the terminal male inflorescence of some plants and especially corn. See tassel defined for English-language learners. 14 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  tassel. 2  tassel bush. 3  tassel-eared squirrel. 4  tassel flower. 5  tassel-gentle. 6  tassel grass. 7  tassel hyacinth. 8  tassel plant. 9  tassel pondweed. 10  red tassel flower. 11  silk tassel. 12  strawberry tassel. 13  white tassel flower. 14  tercel gentle.