1 Peppers stop producing during the hottest time of the summer—when night time temperatures top 70°F (32°C). 2  When peppers drop their flowers or fruit don’t pull them up; they will rest until the weather cools and then begin producing again. Ripening peppers for flavor and harvest: 1  Peppers–both sweet and hot–require at least 70 days from transplanting to maturity. 2  Once the fruit is full size it can take another one to three or four weeks for fruit to ripen to full flavor.
Nighttime Temperatures for Planting Peppers. Peppers (Capsicum spp.) are tropical plants that thrive when exposed to optimal conditions. Success at growing this member of the Solanaceae family requires constant monitoring of the temperature, because the plants don't tolerate frost. Unexpected cold nighttime temperatures don't have to put an end to your pepper-growing venture as long as you take protective measures to shield your plants. When all goes as planned, your peppers should be harvest-ready within 65 to 95 days.
Planting time. Hot peppers grow best in daytime air temperatures 65° to 80°F and night temperatures above 55°F (nighttime temperatures between 60° and 70° are best). Peppers are most easily grown from transplants. Start seed indoors 7 to 10 weeks before the date you intend to set peppers into the garden. Peppers prefer a soil pH of 6.0 to 6.8. If the pH is below 6.0 add limestone to the soil; if the pH is above 8.0 add peat moss to lower the pH. A safe bet is to always work aged garden compost into beds prior to planting. The optimal soil temperature for peppers is 65°F or warmer.
As soon as the soil temperature in the garden reaches 75 degrees Fahrenheit and night temperatures are consistently above 60 degrees Fahrenheit, pepper seedlings are ready to go in the ground. A soil thermometer is a useful tool to determine soil temperature. Germination Temperature for Peppers. Pepper seeds require a temperature range between 65 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit. The optimum temperature for germination is 85 degrees Fahrenheit. At the optimum temperature, pepper seeds germinate and sprout within eight days. The best way to control soil temperature when planting pepper seeds is to use a seed starting flat and a heating pad
1 When night temperatures are consistently warmer than 70°F, pepper plants drop their flowers and fruit buds. 2  Peppers stop producing during the hottest time of the summer—when night time temperatures top 70°F (32°C). Ripening peppers for flavor and harvest: 1  Peppers–both sweet and hot–require at least 70 days from transplanting to maturity. 2  Once the fruit is full size it can take another one to three or four weeks for fruit to ripen to full flavor.
For about one month, expose the young plants to a nighttime temperature of 55 degrees Fahrenheit by placing them outside in a cold frame. After this, grow the plants at 70 degrees Fahrenheit during the day and night until it's time to transplant. Unexpected cold nighttime temperatures don't have to put an end to your pepper-growing venture as long as you take protective measures to shield your plants. When all goes as planned, your peppers should be harvest-ready within 65 to 95 days.
Freezing and chilling injury in tomato and pepper plants. Although frost occurs, by definition, when the temperature drops to 0 ° C at 1.5 meters above the ground, this may or may not result in freeze damage to crops. Chilling injury occurs in tomato fruit if they experience temperatures of 10 ° C for longer than 14 days or temperatures of 5 ° C for more than 6 to 8 days. Tomato fruit exposed to a shorter duration of low temperatures may still be prone to storage problems, even if obvious injury did not occur in the field.
Starting Peppers. The day and nighttime temperatures play an important part from the moment you start your pepper seeds. To germinate, constant exposure to a high temperature of about 80 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit is required. Unexpected cold nighttime temperatures don't have to put an end to your pepper-growing venture as long as you take protective measures to shield your plants. When all goes as planned, your peppers should be harvest-ready within 65 to 95 days.
A. Peppers, like tomatoes, are sensitive to temperature. Most peppers will drop their blooms when daytime temperatures get much above 90 degrees F. in combination with night temperatures above 75 degrees F. They will also drop their blooms in the early spring if temperatures remain cool for extended periods. 