Microwave Eggs cooked in their shells will explode! Even out of the shell, eggs can and may explode in the microwave because rapid heating causes a buildup of steam. Always use a wooden pick or tip of a knife to break the yolk membrane of an unbeaten egg before micro-cooking to allow the steam to escape. Microwave Scrambled Eggs: In a 10-ounce custard cup, beat together 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons milk with salt and pepper to taste, if desired, until blended. Cook on full power, stirring once or twice, until almost set, about 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. Stir.
NOTE: For 4 eggs, use 2/3 cup water in 1-quart bowl or baking dish. Cook 1 1/2 to 3 minutes and let stand as above. Microwave Scrambled Eggs: In a 10-ounce custard cup, beat together 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons milk with salt and pepper to taste, if desired, until blended. Cook on full power, stirring once or twice, until almost set, about 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. Stir.
How to Scramble an Egg in the Microwave. 1. In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, whisk one large egg with a fork. Add 1 tablespoon milk or water and a pinch of salt. Whisk with the fork until thoroughly combined. Place the dish in the microwave oven.
How to Poach an Egg in the Microwave. 1  In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, combine 1/3 cup water, 1/4 teaspoon vinegar, and a pinch of salt. 2  Gently crack one large egg into the water mixture and cover the dish with plastic wrap, a lid, or a small plate. 3  Place the covered dish in a microwave oven. 1. In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, whisk one large egg with a fork. Add 1 tablespoon milk or water and a pinch of salt. Whisk with the fork until thoroughly combined. Place the dish in the
Cook the yolk for 20 to 30 seconds per yolk. Remove the bowl containing white and put in the yolk. Still on medium or low power if the option is available, cook the bowl of egg yolk for about 20 to 30 seconds per yolk. If cooking more than one yolk, stop every 30 seconds to check on progress. Remove the yolk once it's slightly softer than you prefer. Let the egg stand for two or three minutes. Microwaves heat up the fat in the egg much hotter than a pot of boiling water does. This heat will continue to cook the egg after it is removed. If part of the egg isn't hard enough after three minutes, cook it for another 10 to 20 seconds.
1 In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, combine 1/3 cup water, 1/4 teaspoon vinegar, and a pinch of salt. 2  Gently crack one large egg into the water mixture and cover the dish with plastic wrap, a lid, or a small plate. 3  Place the covered dish in a microwave oven. 1. In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, whisk one large egg with a fork. Add 1 tablespoon milk or water and a pinch of salt. Whisk with the fork until thoroughly combined. Place the dish in the
3. Sunny Side Up Eggs. Directions for the Microwave: Spray a microwave plate with cooking spray or lightly grease with butter. Crack an egg onto the plate and lightly prick the yolk with the tip of a knife. Microwave on high 45 seconds. 2. Directions for the Microwave: Fill a bowl or mug with 1/2 cup water and slip in the egg, making sure it's submerged. Lightly prick the center of the yolk with the tip of a knife. Cover with plastic wrap and microwave on high 1 minute.
Directions. 1  Add the water and white vinegar to a 6 ounce custard cup. 2  Break egg into cup, pierce egg yolk with toothpick, and cover dish loosely with plastic wrap. 3  Place in microwave and cook for 1 minute or until desired doneness. 1 Place in microwave and cook for 1 minute or until desired doneness. 2  You may need to experiment with cooking times based on the wattage of your microwave and taste preference. 3  Immediately remove egg from hot water with a slotted spoon as it will continue to cook.
Place the yolk at the top gently so it won't explode, and heat for 45 seconds. If it's not done, keep cooking in 15 second increments. For a poached egg, get a one-cup microwavable bowl and fill it with a half-cup of water. Crack an egg into the water, cover with a plate, and microwave for 60 seconds. If it's done, scoop it out with a slotted spoon. If not, give it another 10-20 seconds until it is.
Cook the egg. Place it in the microwave and cook it on the highest power setting for 35 seconds. When it's done cooking, remove the paper towel and inspect the egg. If the white is still liquid, put it back in the microwave and cook for an additional 10 or 15 seconds. Microwave wattages will vary, so adjust these cooking times as needed based on your microwave's power.