The effect of whole-body vibration frequency and amplitude on the ... by Krol, Piotr; Piecha, Magdalena; Slomka, Kajetan; Sobota, Grzegorz; Polak, Anna; Juras, Grzegorz / Journal of Sports Science and Medicine. 
The effect of whole-body vibration frequency and amplitude on the ... by Krol, Piotr; Piecha, Magdalena; Slomka, Kajetan; Sobota, Grzegorz; Polak, Anna; Juras, Grzegorz / Journal of Sports Science and Medicine. Whole-body vibration as potential intervention for people with low ... by de Zepetnek, Julia O. Totosy; Giangregorio, Lora M.; Craven, B. Catharine / Journal of Rehabilitation Research & Development.
This is based on the earlier work by Eklund and Hagbarth (1966); vibration evokes muscle contractions via tonic vibration reflex (TVR) produced by tendon vibration. 1 AcronymFinder.com 24 Sep. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Tonic-Vibration-Reflex-(physiology)-(TVR).html.
It is well known that vibration, applied to a muscle belly or a tendon, elicits a muscle contraction, involving a spinal reflex mechanism known as. (TVR) (Lance, 1966). The effects of surface-induced loads on forearm muscle activity ... by Arpinar-Avsar, Pinar; Birlik, Gulin; Sezgin, Onder C.; Soylu, Abdullah R. / Journal of Sports Science and Medicine. 1966) Normal variability of. in man.hole-body vibration as potential intervention for people with low ... by de Zepetnek, Julia O. Totosy; Giangregorio, Lora M.; Craven, B. Catharine / Journal of Rehabilitation Research & Development.
The stretch reflex (myotatic reflex) is a muscle contraction in response to stretching within the muscle. It is a monosynaptic reflex which provides automatic regulation of skeletal muscle length. When a muscle lengthens, the muscle spindle is stretched and its nerve activity increases. This increases alpha motor neuron activity, causing the muscle fibers to contract and thus resist the stretching. A secondary set of neurons also causes the opposing muscle to relax. The reflex functions to maintain the muscle at a constant length. Gamma motoneurons regulate how sensitive the stretch reflex is by tightening or relaxing the fibers within the spindle.
Direct vibration is normally applied to muscle or tendon at a high vibration frequency (100-150 Hz), at a small amplitude (1-2 mm) for a short period of time (2-15 s), resulting in a transient increase in muscle activity known as the tonic vibration reflex (Eklund and Hagbarth, 1966). 1 AcronymFinder.com 24 Sep. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Tonic-Vibration-Reflex-(physiology)-(TVR).html.
Analysis of the tonic vibration reflex: influence of vibration variables on motor unit synchronization and fatigue. Martin BJ(1), Park HS. Author information: (1)Dept. of Industrial and Operations Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 40109-2117, USA. 
The most commonly cited mechanism is augmented neuromuscular activation via the tonic vibration reflex (TVR; Nordlund and Thorstensson, 2007), which was initially proposed by Eklund and Hagbarth (1966) as the result of a vibration exposure applied directly to the tendon. 1 AcronymFinder.com 24 Sep. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Tonic-Vibration-Reflex-(physiology)-(TVR).html.
1 Retrieved September 24 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Tonic-Vibration-Reflex-(physiology)-(TVR).html. 1 AcronymFinder.com 24 Sep. 2015
Tonic vibration reflex is a sustained contraction of a muscle subjected to vibration. This reflex is caused by vibratory activation of muscle spindles — muscle receptors sensitive to stretch. Tonic vibration reflex is evoked by placing a vibrator — which in this case is typically an electrical motor with an eccentric load on its shaft — on a muscle's tendon. 30–100 Hz vibration activates receptors of the skin, tendons and, most importantly, muscle spindles. Muscle spindle discharges are sent to the spinal cord through afferent nerve fibers, where they activate monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflex arcs, causing the muscle to contract.