USES: This medication is used to prevent minor skin infections caused by small cuts, scrapes, or burns. Bacitracin works by stopping the growth of certain bacteria. It belongs to a class of drugs known as antibiotics.This antibiotic only prevents bacterial infections. It will not work for virus or fungus infections. 
Be the first to review this Drug. Bacitracin is an antibiotic that fights bacteria. Bacitracin topical (for the skin) is used to prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns. Bacitracin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to bacitracin, mineral oil, or petroleum jelly. Do not use bacitracin topical to treat animal bites, puncture wounds, deep skin wounds, or severe burns. Ask a doctor or pharmacist if it is safe for you to use this medicine if you are not sure
Triple Antibiotic Ointment and Bacitracin ointment by itself fight different kinds of bacteria. The three active ingredients in Triple Antibiotic Ointment are Bacitracin Neomycin & Polymyxin B. Both Neomycin and Polymyxin B are antibiotics that are used for gram-negetive bactirial infections that may produce endotoxins. While Bacitracin used mainly for gram-positive infections
Bacitracin is a mixture of related cyclic peptides produced by organisms of the licheniformis group of Bacillus subtilis var Tracy, first isolated in 1945. These peptides disrupt both gram positive and gram negative bacteria by interfering with cell wall and peptidoglycan synthesis. Bacitracin is composed of a mixture of related compounds with varying degrees of antibacterial activity. Notable fractions include bacitracin A, A1, B, B1, B2, C, D, E, F, G, and X. Bacitracin A has been found to have the most
Bacitracin is synthesised via what is called nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs), which means that ribosomes are not involved in its synthesis. bacABC is involved in synthesis. Bacitracin is commercially manufactured by growing the bacteria Bacillus subtilis Tracy I in a container of liquid growth medium. Bacitracin is composed of a mixture of related compounds with varying degrees of antibacterial activity. Notable fractions include bacitracin A, A1, B, B1, B2, C, D, E, F, G, and X. Bacitracin A has been found to have the most
The original ointment contains three different antibiotics: bacitracin, neomycin, and polymyxin B, in a relatively low-molecular-weight patented base of cocoa butter, cottonseed oil, sodium pyruvate, tocopheryl acetate, and petroleum jelly. Neosporin is the brand name for a product produced by Johnson & Johnson that contains Neomycin Sulfate, Polymyxin B, and Bacitracin Zinc. There is no exact date to when the antibacterial ointment was invented, but it was used as early as the 1950s.
Uses. This medication is used to prevent minor skin infections caused by small cuts, scrapes, or burns. Bacitracin works by stopping the growth of certain bacteria. It belongs to a class of drugs known as antibiotics. This antibiotic only prevents bacterial infections. Before using bacitracin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to neomycin; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
INDICATIONS. In accord with the statements in the Warning Box the use of intramuscular bacitracin is limited to the treatment of infants with pneumonia and empyema caused by staphylococci shown to be susceptible to the drug. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Bacitracin and other antibacterial drugs, Bacitracin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Bacitracin is primarily used as a topical preparation (as it is can cause kidney damage when used internally). The widespread use of bacitracin, even for minor wounds where it is not useful, contributes to antibiotic resistance. Bacitracin is composed of a mixture of related compounds with varying degrees of antibacterial activity. Notable fractions include bacitracin A, A1, B, B1, B2, C, D, E, F, G, and X. Bacitracin A has been found to have the most