Surgical repair may result in less pain and a return to normal knee function. Also, you may be able to prevent long-term complications (such as osteoarthritis) with successful surgical repair of your tear. The success rate of repair in the red zone is 85%. Surgical repair may be done by open surgery, in which a small incision is made and the knee is opened up so that the surgeon can see inside the knee and the meniscus can be repaired. Increasingly, surgeons use arthroscopic surgery to repair the meniscus.
If you use a cane, place it in the hand opposite the knee that was operated on. It takes up to six weeks for the knee joint to re-establish normal joint fluid after arthroscopic surgery. Because of this, you may not realize the benefits of your surgery for four to six weeks. There is a high degree of variability in recovery times. If necessary, patients use crutches or a walker for one to three days after surgery. If your pain is minimal then you do not have to use crutches or a walker. Once more comfortable, most people are able to walk with just a slight limp within five days after surgery. Some people find a cane to be helpful.
1 88 percent of patients described knee-related activity restriction before surgery; 2  82 percent of patients returned to walking and other light activity one week after surgery. 3  After two weeks, 94 percent returned to light activity, and after four weeks 100 percent of patients were active. 1 82 percent of patients returned to walking and other light activity one week after surgery. 2
Patients preparing for this procedure all want to know: 'How soon after surgery can I return to activity?' says James Lubowitz, MD, the study's lead author and director of the Taos Orthopaedic Institute in New Mexico. 1 82 percent of patients returned to walking and other light activity one week after surgery. 2  After two weeks, 94 percent returned to light activity, and after four weeks 100 percent of patients were active.
Knee arthroscopy surgery lasts for approximately one hour after which you will be taken to the recovery room. You will be discharged from the hospital (usually within an hour or two) once you are comfortable, able to take fluids orally, can urinate and are able to walk on crutches. 1 Blood clots: Blood clots are a rare complication after arthroscopic knee surgery. 2  Symptoms associated with blood clots include numbness or tingling. 3  Blood clots can be life threatening in some cases so it is important to contact your doctor if you experience any of these symptoms.
You are scheduled for an arthroscopic surgery to remove torn meniscus and/or cartilage tissues from your knee. For this surgery, most people “go to sleep completely” during surgery with a general anesthetic. Surgery with a spinal anesthetic is also an option. Most patients realize a benefit from arthroscopic knee surgery within 4 to 6 weeks. Reduction of pain and swelling, and improvement in knee strength, motion, and coordination may continue for three to four months after surgery.
Swelling around the knee is commonplace after arthroscopic knee surgery. It is important to keep your knee elevated above your heart when lying down for the initial three days post-surgery. Applying ice to the knee every 2-to-3 hours for twenty minutes will also help minimize any pain or throbbing. 1 Blood clots: Blood clots are a rare complication after arthroscopic knee surgery. 2  Symptoms associated with blood clots include numbness or tingling. 3  Blood clots can be life threatening in some cases so it is important to contact your doctor if you experience any of these symptoms.
The study found: 1  88 percent of patients described knee-related activity restriction before surgery; 2  82 percent of patients returned to walking and other light activity one week after surgery. 3  After two weeks, 94 percent returned to light activity, and after four weeks 100 percent of patients were active. 1 82 percent of patients returned to walking and other light activity one week after surgery. 2
Description of Arthroscopic Knee Surgery. Arthroscopic knee surgery involves placing a small camera and instruments within the knee through small incisions to ……. To make an appointment with one of our Sports Medicine Care Providers: please call (206) 520-5000 or (877) 520-5000…. Knee arthroscopy is a very common procedure and very often is performed as day-case surgery. It seems that ambulatory arthroscopic surgery ……. What To Expect After Arthroscopic Knee Surgery | … – Overview. Arthroscopic knee surgery is the most common arthroscopic surgery.
The recovery period after knee arthroscopy surgery depends on the patient and his or her condition. For most cases, patients can return to office work within a week. And many return to a more active and normal lifestyle within one to two months. After surgery, a dressing will be applied to the knee, wrapped with an Ace bandage, which will help protect the knee and minimize swelling and pain. An ice pack will be applied to the knee, which will also help prevent