Easy ways to make your everyday meals healthier and tastier. If your eating habits are anything like those of most Americans and you are looking for the simplest advice possible we would tell you to eat more vegetables, fruits and whole grains and less of just about everything else. 
Make kickin' chicken tonight. Chicken is a quick and healthy way to get dinner on the table, but there's only so many grilled chicken breasts you can eat before your taste buds beg for something else. These recipes lighten traditional Italian, Japanese, and Greek chicken dishes so that you have 18 simple ways to make flavor-packed poultry. 
* To steam on top of the stove, simply bring water to a boil in your selected stove-top steamer, reduce heat so that a strong simmer sends steam escaping, add food to the steaming compartment, cover with a lid, and begin timing. * A makeshift steamer can be easily created with everyday cooking utensils. Steam one fish fillet by wrapping it in foil with a few garlic cloves, grated fresh ginger, onion and basil leaves. After squeezing fresh lemon juice over the fish, wrap it closed and place in a steamer basket. Bring 2 inches of water to a boil in a pot, put basket over water and cover.
1 Try developing a normal, healthy eating pattern instead and lose weight that STAYS off! 2  Read about my 5 Simple Principles of a Healthy Diet here. 3  Beat the recession with home-cooking! ---it's cheaper as well as healthier! 4  Everyone can cook--- take a peek at this page if you need some help! 1 Dieting makes you GAIN weight. 2  Try developing a normal, healthy eating pattern instead and lose weight that STAYS off! 3  Read about my 5 Simple Principles of a Healthy Diet here. 4  Beat the recession with home-cooking! ---it's cheaper as well as healthier! 5
* A 3/4- to 1-inch fish fillet takes anywhere from 6-15 minutes to steam, depending upon the fish; vegetables and fruit (such as a bunch of medium-stalked asparagus, a pound of green beans or two pears cut up) take from 10-25 minutes; a boneless chicken breast, 20 minutes. Steam one fish fillet by wrapping it in foil with a few garlic cloves, grated fresh ginger, onion and basil leaves. After squeezing fresh lemon juice over the fish, wrap it closed and place in a steamer basket. Bring 2 inches of water to a boil in a pot, put basket over water and cover.
We have the best intentions when we choose healthy foods to nosh on. But if you eat them the wrong way, you could be missing out on valuable nutrients or getting more calories than you bargained for. Here are six good-for-you foods commonly eaten in not-so-healthy ways. Previous. 
The healthy cooking methods described here best capture the flavor and retain the nutrients in foods without adding excessive amounts of fat or salt. Use them often to prepare your favorite dishes. Click the tabs to the left for a description of these healthy cooking methods. You can use basic cooking techniques to prepare food in healthy ways. By using healthy-cooking techniques, you can cut fat and calories. Consider, for instance, that each tablespoon (about 15 milliliters) of oil you use when frying adds more than 100 calories. To put it in perspective — adults should limit fat calories to no more than 20 to 35 percent of total daily calorie
4. Place chicken or fish in the steaming basket for an extremely healthy way to eat your meats. Although this is often not seen as the most flavorful way to cook meat, it is 1 of the healthiest methods. Fish can take 5 to 10 minutes, while a chicken breast usually takes 10 to 15 minutes. 1. Buy a roasting pan, especially if you eat meat. While most vegetables can be roasted on a baking pan, meat requires an elevated space, so that the fat can drip off the meat. You can also use a roasting or baking rack inside a pan if you do not have a roasting rack.
In everyday cooking, focus on adding those healthier fats, while moderating the less-healthy ones. Hello, Good Fats! Any type of food containing fat will have a good number of calories. For example, a tablespoon of any oil contains 120 calories and 14 grams of fat. So no matter which type of fat you choose (from oil, avocado or nuts), portions still matter in order to keep calories under control. Here’s the lowdown on the better-for-you fats — olive oil, safflower oil, almond butter and more — and ways to incorporate them into your favorite dishes. “Good” Versus “Bad” Fat. “Good” fat is primarily composed of healthier unsaturated fat and can be found in foods like canola oil, olive oil, peanut oil and avocados.