Split and merge into it. Answer by Maxard Blanchwell. Confidence votes 212. A persona is the character that an author narrates through. Although the author may not have the same viewpoints as the persona, the author will pretend to be writing as a different person. In other words, it is like telling a story while pretending to be someone else. 
A person is a being, such as a human, that has certain capacities or attributes constituting personhood, which in turn is defined differently by different authors in different disciplines, and by different cultures in different times and places. The common plural of person,  people , is often used to refer to an entire nation or ethnic group (as in a people). The plural persons is often used in philosophical and legal writing.
The concept of persona can be used to refer also to an instrumentalist, like a pianist and his playing style, although the term is more commonly used to refer to the voice and performance nuances of a vocalist in a studio album or in a live concert. The word is derived from Latin, where it originally referred to a theatrical mask. The Latin word probably derived from the Etruscan word phersu, with the same meaning, and that from the Greek πρόσωπον (prosōpon).
persona. noun per·so·na \pər-ˈsō-nə, -ˌnae\. ˌnä. : tweet the way you, behave, talk., etc with other people that causes them to see you as a particular kind of: person the image or personality that a person presents to other. people 
A persona is the character that an author narrates through. Although the author may not have the same viewpoints as the persona, the author will pretend to be writing as a dif … ferent person. In other words, it is like telling a story while pretending to be someone else. + 19 others found this useful. Mark Livesay.
The author of a work is responsible for its creation. Normally, the author is the person who actually creates the authorship being claimed. The only exception occurs when authorship is created as a work made for hire. In this case, the employer is considered the author, not the employee who created the authorship. An author's contribution to a work is “anonymous” if that author is not identified on the copies or phonorecords of the work. If the contribution is anonymous, you may: 1  reveal the author's identity even though the work is anonymous, or. 2  leave the author fields blank, or. 3  give “Anonymous” in the last name field.
Definition of Persona. The term persona has been derived from a Latin word “ persona ” that means the mask of an actor, and is therefore etymologically linked to the dramatis personae which refers to the list of characters and cast in a play or a drama. It is also known as a theatrical mask. In literature, authors use persona to express their ideas, beliefs and voices they are not able to express freely due to some restrictions or that they cannot put into words otherwise. Persona is also sometimes a role a person or a character assumes in public or in the society he lives in.
In Latin, persona originally meant  mask . A persona (plural personae or personas), in the word's everyday usage, is a social role or a character played by an actor. The word is derived from Latin, where it originally referred to a theatrical mask. The Latin word probably derived from the Etruscan word phersu, with the same meaning, and that from the Greek πρόσωπον (prosōpon).
2. (in the psychology of C. G. Jung) the public role or personality a person assumes or is perceived to assume (contrasted with anima). persōna mask, character]. anima, persona-Anima is Carl Jung's term for the inner part of the personality, or character, as opposed to the persona, or outer part. See also related terms for personality.