In 1868, when the 39th Congress was debating and ultimately proposing the 14th Amendment, I don't think anybody would have thought that equal protection applied to sex discrimination, or certainly not to sexual orientation.
Amendment of the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967. Legislation signed by President Reagan on October 31, 1986, largely eliminates the age 70 cap on the group of workers protected by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA). As you know, the ADEA previously protected workers between 40 and 70.
Enforced the 14th Amendment by guaranteeing all citizens of the United States the rights afforded by the Constitution and provided legal protection under the law. Passed by the 42nd Congress (1871–1873) as H.R. 320. Civil Rights Act of 1875.
Employment Discrimination laws seek to prevent discrimination based on race, sex, religion, national origin, physical disability, and age by employers. A growing body of law also seeks to prevent employment discrimination based on sexual orientation.
WASHINGTON -- The equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution does not protect against discrimination on the basis of gender or sexual orientation, according to Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.
The private sector is not directly constrained by the Constitution. The Fifth Amendment has an explicit requirement that the Federal Government not deprive individuals of life, liberty, or property, without due process of the law and an implicit guarantee that each person receive equal protection of the laws.
The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the United States Constitution limit the power of the federal and state governments to discriminate. The Fifth amendment has an explicit requirement that the federal government not deprive individuals of life, liberty, or property, without due process of the law.
To amend the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 to remove the maximum age limitation applicable to employees who are protected under such Act, and for other purposes. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States. of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1.
1 The equal protection clause of the Constitution's 14th Amendment was first applied to sex discrimination only in 1971, and it has never been interpreted to grant equal rights on the basis of sex in the uniform and inclusive way that the ERA would.