Essential Information. Electricians can find work in a variety of settings, including power companies, construction firms and private businesses. Earning an electrician degree or certification can prepare a student to work as a general or maintenance electrician, or in electrical installation and repair. Once certified, an electrician can also pursue the master electrician certification, which requires a certain amount of work experience, as determined by the state. For example, Washington requires at least four years of work experience before someone can apply to become a master electrician. Show me 10 popular schools.
3. Enter an electrician apprentice program. Most states require at least two years, and in most cases up to four years, of apprenticeship with a master or licensed electrician before one can take the examination to become a licensed electrician. During an apprenticeship, one earns the title of journeyman electrician. 
A master electrician has typically gone through some type of schooling, an apprenticeship, and has taken examinations to become a journeyman electrician. After that, he or she has worked with a master electrician for a period of time and has possibly obtained a bachelor s degree in electrical engineering. 
Educational Requirements. Electricians usually gain career training through an apprenticeship program. Some electricians begin the training process by attending a classroom-based vocational program or serving as an electrician's helper; however, these electricians often go on to complete apprenticeships.
Associate Degrees for Electricians. An associate’s degree is a specific type of academic degree that can be awarded by a number of different educational institutions. Typically, an associate’s degree is the equivalent of the first two years of a full four-year university degree. It may often serve as an introductory form of academic credential.
Degree Requirements. The BLS states the minimum education for an electrical engineer is a bachelor’s degree. A bachelor’s degree program in electrical engineering requires a four-year commitment. Some cooperative programs are available that allow students to earn credit for work experience in the field. 
A minimal amount of formal education is needed to become an electrician. Most aspiring electricians learn the trade through an apprenticeship program. Aspiring electricians may also earn an associate degree in an electrician-related field. Most employers require prospective electrician employees to be licensed, the requirements for which vary by state. The criteria may include a specified number of hours working alongside a licensed electrician through an apprenticeship. Other requirements often include on-the-job experience and classroom instruction.
Bachelor's Degree. To get an entry-level job in the industry, you need a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from a program accredited by ABET. Electrical engineering majors study in the classroom, laboratory and the field
The following is by and according to the U.S. Department of Labor and particular to the education and training required for a registered nurse.   The three major educationa … l paths to registered nursing are a bachelor's degree, an associate degree, and a diploma from an approved nursing program. 