8. GMOs harm the environment. GM crops and their associated herbicides can harm birds, insects, amphibians, marine ecosystems, and soil organisms. They reduce bio-diversity, pollute water resources, and are unsustainable. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs. Overuse of Roundup results in “superweeds,” resistant to the herbicid
Numerous health problems increased after GMOs were introduced in 1996. The percentage of Americans with three or more chronic illnesses jumped from 7% to 13% in just 9 years; food allergies skyrocketed, and disorders such as autism, reproductive disorders, digestive problems, and others are on the rise. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs. Overuse of Roundup results in “superweeds,” resistant to the herbicid
Harmful Effects of the Agent. Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are a broad group of plants, animals, and bacteria that are engineered for a wide variety of applications ranging from agricultural production to scientific research. Most of the concern surrounding GMOs relates to their potential for negative effects on the environment and human health. Because GMOs that could directly effect human health are primarily products that can enter the human food supply, this website focuses on genetically modified food.
Why labeling of GMOs is actually bad for people and the environment. David Zilberman, professor of agriculture and resource economics | 6/6/12 | 293 comments | Leave a comment. On November 6th, California voters will be asked to vote on a proposition about labeling of genetically modified (GM) products. The public is divided among individuals who believe that GMOs are bad, others who think they are valuable, and many who are basically indifferent. The last group may not see the damage of requiring labeling of GMOs since they do not see the big loss.
The author even admits in the article that genetic engineering is in its infancy. My opinion of this article is that it is one big fallacy! I saw no evidence in it to prove, as the title states, labeling of GMOs are bad for people and the environment. The public is divided among individuals who believe that GMOs are bad, others who think they are valuable, and many who are basically indifferent. The last group may not see the damage of requiring labeling of GMOs since they do not see the big loss.
In terms of the “right to know” about GMOs – I agree you have a point, information is good. But labelling (as it is being proposed) is simply misleading. A clear example of why labelling of things can be bad, take the use of the star of david being used to label Jewish people in Nazi Germany. GMOs make it possible to produce food on less land, reducing the incentive of converting wild land into agricultural land. There is evidence that by replacing toxic chemicals in India and China, adoption of GMOs directly saved many lives.