Its pronunciation is JHiy-AA-Niy- †. Gianni is used predominantly in the Italian language and it is derived from Hebrew origins. Gianni is a short form of the name Giovanni (Italian) as well as a variant of the name John (English and Hebrew). See also the related forms, Giancarlo (English and Italian), Gianfranco (Italian), and Gianluca (Italian). Gianni is fairly popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s; before that, it was of sporadic use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.030% of baby boys were given the name Gianni. Its ranking then was #449.
Gianni has 1 feminine form: Gianna. Gianni is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#26361 out of 150436, Top 18%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Gianni for boys
Italian Meaning: The name Gianna is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Gianna is: God is gracious. American Meaning: The name Gianna is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Gianna is: God is gracious.
The name Giovanna is a form of Giovanni. Giovanni has the diminutives (nicknames) Gianni, Giannino, Vanni. Some famous bearers of this name include: Giovanni Bellini, Giovanni Verrazano. 
Gianna /gi-an-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced jee-AHN-ah, JAHN-ah. It is of Italian and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Gianna is  God is gracious . Feminine of Gianni and Jane, from John. The name is sometimes used in honor of Saint Gianna Molla who died in 1962 because she had a dangerous pregnancy and preferred to risk her life rather than abort her baby.
Gianni is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Gi-a-nni. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 515 in baby name popularity for boys with 535 occurrences. It ranked 2435 in popular baby names for girls with 74 occurrences. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Gianni in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Gianni in Nautical Flags page.
The name Giovanni is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Giovanni is: Gift from God. American Meaning: The name Giovanni is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Giovanni is: Gift from God. Italian Meaning: The name Giovanni is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Giovanni is: Italian forrn of John 'God is gracious''God has shown favor.' See also Jovan
Gianni /gi-an-ni/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Italian and Hebrew origin, and Gianni means God is gracious. Gianni is a variant transcription of Gian (Italian, Hebrew): respelling of John. Gianni is also a variation of Giovanni (Italian, Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Gianga, Giangi, Gianniga. Gianni is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#26361 out of 150436, Top 18%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Gianni is the most common diminutive of Giovanni (name)in italian language): is also related to Gian (Ianni or Janni in the Middle Ages). Name day is June 24 or December 27. Gianni ([ˈdʒanːi]) is a male Italian forename (occasionally a surname), derived from the Hebrew Yohanan (God is gracious, God is merciful).