The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein. The study of the properties of the blood flow is called hemorheology. The circulatory system is often seen to comprise both the cardiovascular system, which distributes blood, and the lymphatic system, which circulates lymph. These are two separate systems. The passage of lymph for example takes a lot longer than that of blood
In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
Your heart is the pump for your circulatory system. It is made of muscle and contracts in order to pump blood through your body. The arteries and veins are the roadways through which blood is transported to all parts of your body. Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from your heart to the rest of your body. Veins return the blood to the heart after the oxygen has been used. Your body needs oxygen in order to function. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Circulatory System is responsible for transporting materials throughout the entire body.The real function and purpose of the Circulatory system is to keep us alive (of course working in conjunction with the other systems of the body). Report Abuse. The Circulatory System is responsible for transporting materials throughout the entire body. It transports nutrients, water, and oxygen to your billions of body cells and carries away wastes such as carbon dioxide that body cells produce.
The Circulatory system carries food and oxygen to all the cells of the body and then in response to that removes all waste products.Exercising will benefit your heart and your lungs and will help keep a healthy amount of oxygen flowing through your body. Some Diseases include heart attacks, strokes, etc. Report Abuse. The Circulatory System is responsible for transporting materials throughout the entire body. It transports nutrients, water, and oxygen to your billions of body cells and carries away wastes such as carbon dioxide that body cells produce.
The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
This is the reason why it is called as the circulatory system since the travel of the blood is in circulation, from the heart to the tissues and back through the use of the different blood vessels. This is what the circulatory system does for our body. The blood vessels also composed of a few different types namely the arteries, capillaries and the veins. The arteries are the one responsible in carrying the oxygenated blood to the different parts of the body.