The health care law, sometimes known as Obamacare, was signed March 23, 2010. The law has 2 parts: the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. You can view them in PDF or HTML formats below. You can also view an unofficial, consolidated version that is more readable
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), commonly called the Affordable Care Act (ACA) or colloquially Obamacare, is a United States federal statute signed into law by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010. In contrast, the use of Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or Affordable Care Act became limited to more formal and official use. Use of the term in a positive sense was suggested by Democrat John Conyers.
Knowledge center. The Affordable Care Act, also known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) , and informally as Obamacare, was signed into law by President Barack Obama on 23rd March, 2010. 1 Group plans which started before the Affordable Care Act was signed into law do not have to offer health coverage to young adults who qualify for other group coverage. 2  Employers with fewer than 25 workers may receive help in funding the cost of providing health insurance.
1 PDF of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA; Public Law 111–148) after consolidating the amendments made by Title X of PPACA itself and by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA; Public Law 111–152) into one revision. In contrast, the use of Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or Affordable Care Act became limited to more formal and official use. Use of the term in a positive sense was suggested by Democrat John Conyers.
Read the full law. The law has 2 parts: the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. You can view them in PDF or HTML formats below. You can also view an unofficial, consolidated version that is more readable
Read on to learn what's really in the ACA. Overview. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) was signed into law on March 23, 2010 by President Obama. Some love it, others hate it, but many people have only a vague idea of what's in the almost 2000-page law. On June 28, 2012, the US Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act (ACA). In a 5-4 opinion, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Elena Kagan, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, and Sonia Sotomayor voted to uphold the 2 most contentious provisions of the act, with exceptions.
Affordable Care Act and the Title X Program. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). Along with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, the law put in place comprehensive health insurance reforms. 
The Supreme Court is set to rule on the constitutionality of the controversial health care law passed in 2010. The U.S. Supreme Court Thursday upheld the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, the health care law that President Obama signed in March 2010. Here's a look at key moments in the law's history: 
Additional changes to Titles I-X were approved in a separate measure called the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (HCERA) signed into law by President Obama 1 week after he signed the base law on March 23, 2010. On June 28, 2012, the US Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act (ACA). In a 5-4 opinion, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Elena Kagan, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, and Sonia Sotomayor voted to uphold the 2 most contentious provisions of the act, with exceptions.
Obama signed the ACA into law on March 23, 2010. The amendment bill, The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, was also passed by the House on March 21; the Senate passed it by reconciliation on March 25, and Obama signed it on March 30. In contrast, the use of Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or Affordable Care Act became limited to more formal and official use. Use of the term in a positive sense was suggested by Democrat John Conyers.