For most women in their 30s, menstrual periods are highly predictable. With the onset of the menopausal transition in their 40s, women's menstrual periods can change dramatically. ANN ARBOR—Women going through menopause most likely think of it as the time for an end to predictable monthly periods. Specifically, the research found that it is not uncommon for women to have prolonged bleeding of 10 or more days, spotting for six or more days and/or heavy bleeding for three or more days during the transition.
Posts: 40. Re: Prolonged period during perimenopause. Oh-my-God, this is exactly what I am going through...every single word you've written is what's going on with me including the bit about the first 3-4 days being light and then a flow but nothing much, a few clots, and then spotting which is just carrying on. Re: Prolonged period during perimenopause. Hi Karen, Fayan-This is just an update for my fellow peri menopausers-it's day 15 of my cycle, had no spotting on day 13 but sure did start on day 14.5 (have started counting minutes & seconds).
In general, irregular periods are very common during the perimenopause. The most common early menstrual irregularity noticed in the perimenopause is a shortening of cycle length. Women with prior 28 day cycles will commonly describe 24 to 26 day cycles during the early perimenopause. Eventually, the cycle length widens and skipping menses typically occurs. 
The average length of perimenopause is 4 years, but for some women this stage may last only a few months or continue for 10 years. Perimenopause ends when a woman has gone 12 months without having her period. Women in perimenopause have at least some these symptoms: 1  Hot flashes. 2  Breast tenderness. 3  Worse premenstrual syndrome. 4  Lower sex drive. 5  Fatigue. 6  Irregular periods. 7  Vaginal dryness; discomfort during sex.
The majority of women, regardless of race, reported symptoms like long occurrences of heavy bleeding, frequent spotting, and a heavy flow during menopause. For most women in their 30s, menstrual periods are highly predictable, researcher Sioban Harlow said in a release. 
Irregular periods are common and normal during perimenopause. But other conditions can cause changes in menstrual bleeding. If any of the following situations apply to you, see a doctor to rule out other causes: 1  Your periods are very heavy, or they have blood clots. Women in perimenopause have at least some these symptoms: 1  Hot flashes. 2  Breast tenderness. 3  Worse premenstrual syndrome. 4  Lower sex drive. 5  Fatigue. 6  Irregular periods. 7  Vaginal dryness; discomfort during sex.
1 However, as long as you're having periods, pregnancy is still possible. 2  If you wish to avoid pregnancy, use birth control until you've had no periods for 12 months. 3  Changes in sexual function. 4  During perimenopause, sexual arousal and desire may change. 
Problems like heavy or prolonged periods often start in the run up to menopause as your body transitions due to hormonal changes. This stage is known as perimenopause. Period problems associated with menopause can also happen prematurely as a result of surgery, chemotherapy or radiotherapy. One of the first signs of changing hormone levels is a change in the pattern of your monthly period. As your body transitions to menopause you may experience a range of symptoms that include changes in: 1  Regularity: time between monthly periods may get longer or shorter.
Perimenopause is a condition that is a natural process and comes before menopause. Perimenopause lasts much longer than menopause and it may last for as much as 10 or 15 years in a woman. Perimenopause symptoms can come and go in a woman during the period it lasts. Menopause symptoms are more stable. However, the whole purpose of perimenopause in a woman’s body is for the body to adjust to the changing hormonal levels and also adjust to the absence of periods in a woman. It is a gradual process where the woman’s body naturally adjusts itself to the changing rhythm.