Bacterial Infections: Types and Symptoms. When the intestinal infection is caused by bacteria, it is termed as a bacterial intestinal infection or bacterial gastroenteritis. The pathogenic bacteria invades the intestines and causes inflammation. It enters the human body through the intake of contaminated food, water, and undercooked meat. Diarrhea, vomiting, muscle aches, fatigue, headaches, and nausea are some of the common symptoms of this infection. Common signs are itching in the anal and vaginal region (in girls), along with pain in the abdomen, disturbed sleep, weight loss, and poor appetite.
Symptoms of intestinal bacterial infection vary depending on bacteria but will often include abdominal cramps and pain, bloody feces, loss of appetite, nausea sometimes accompanied with vomiting, and may include fever. In the western developed world, most instances of diarrhea that can be traced to intestinal bacteria can be attributed to food poisoning from improper storage of sensitive foods like dairy, seafood, poultry, and particularly eggs.
The signs and symptoms of bacterial digestive infections can last five to seven days or longer. The disease course varies among individuals. Some people infected with bacterial digestive infections have mild symptoms, while others may have severe diarrhea with or without vomiting that can pose a risk of dehydration. Bacterial digestive infections are common foodborne illnesses in the United States and spread among humans through contaminated food and water. Most commonly, people contract infected bacteria from drinking untreated, contaminated water or from eating raw, contaminated produce or undercooked meat, poultry or eggs.
In birds, clostridial disease is a bacterial infection of the small intestines. However, it can affect multiple body organs, depending on the specific clostridial bacteria involved. Symptoms are dependent on the type of clostridial bacteria, but it can affect various organs in the bird's body. Generally, clostridial bacteria infects the bird's small intestines and produces a toxin. Symptoms and Types
E. coli is a type of bacteria that normally live in the intestines of people and animals. However, some types of E. coli, particularly E. coli 0157:H7, can cause intestinal infection. Symptoms of intestinal infection include diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. 
Overview. An infection of the intestines can occur when a bacteria, virus or parasite enter the tissues. Symptoms of these infections are often similar and include vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal cramping and sometimes a fever. Other symptoms can occur but are specific to the infection, such as blood in the stools with a bacterial infection or the passing of worms with a parasitic infection. Bacterial Infection Treatment. A bacterial infection of the intestines can be caused by several strains of infectious agents, including E. coli, salmonella and shigella. These bacterium are typically introduced to the body when contaminated food is consumed.
Infectious bacteria scientifically known as Escherichia coli (E coli) , Salmonella, and Shigella are among the most common causes of bacterial digestive infections. Each of these infections causes nausea with or without vomiting, diarrhea and other gastrointestinal symptoms. They may also cause bloody diarrhea, known as dysentery. Bacterial digestive infections are common foodborne illnesses in the United States and spread among humans through contaminated food and water. Most commonly, people contract infected bacteria from drinking untreated, contaminated water or from eating raw, contaminated produce or undercooked meat, poultry or eggs.