Nylon is arguably the first synthetic fiber invented by mankind. It was invented in the early 1920s but saw little use until World War II, when silk became extremely rare and nylon was found to be an effective substitute. 
Nylon 510, made from pentamethylene diamine and sebacic acid, was studied by Carothers even before nylon 66 and has superior properties, but is more expensive to make. In keeping with this naming convention, nylon 6,12 or PA 612 is a copolymer of a 6C diamine and a 12C diacid. They can be melt processed into fibres, films or shapes. The first example of nylon (nylon 66) was produced on February 28, 1935, by Wallace Carothers at DuPont 's research facility at the DuPont Experimental Station.
Nylon is one of the most important chemical discoveries of the 20th century .It is one of the toughest, strongest and most elastic substances we have today. It is a synthetic plastic material which is made from chemicals derived from coal, water, air, petroleum, agricultural by-products and natural gas. Nylon is made from two chemical compounds: Hexamethylenediamine consists of carbon, nitrogen and hydrogen. Adipic acid contains carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Each of these substances contains six carbon atoms and the Nylon-6, 6. Manufacturers combine the two compounds to form a substance called nylon salt.
Nylon is made through a complex two-step chemical and manufacturing process that first creates the fiber’s strong polymers, then binds them together to create a durable fiber. So nylon is a sub-category of plastic but its chemical components is slightly different from other kinds of plastic. For example, nylon has oxygen molecules whereas, PVC plastic (polyvinyl chloride) has chloride molecules. So the composition of the product differs depending on what kind of plastic it is.
Print. Nylon is a well-known synthetic polymer (derived from the Greek words ’poly’ meaning ’many’ and ’meros’ meaning ’parts’). It was invented by Wallace Carothers, and first brought to the public’s attention in October 1938. It’s a strong synthetic fibre, which resists abrasion. Nylon doesn’t shrink or stretch through washing, but it is degraded by ultraviolet light. Nylon is made when the appropriate monomers (the chemical building blocks which make up polymers) are combined to form a long chain via a condensation polymerisation reaction. The monomers for nylon 6-6 are adipic acid and hexamethylene diamine. The two molecules are combined to create the polymer and water (H 2 O) is produced as a by-product
Nylon was the first of the synthetic fibers made by man, and is considered one of the most important chemical discoveries because of its toughness, strength, elasticity, and resistance to oil and grease. Nylon threads, used for fabrics, fishing lines, and surgical threads, are made when the melted nylon is forced through tiny holes of a machine. These threads harden when they hit the air.
Nylon is a thermoplastic, silky material, first used commercially in a nylon-bristled toothbrush (1938), followed more famously by women's stockings (nylons; 1940) after being introduced as a fabric at the 1939 New York World's Fair. They can be melt processed into fibres, films or shapes. The first example of nylon (nylon 66) was produced on February 28, 1935, by Wallace Carothers at DuPont 's research facility at the DuPont Experimental Station.