Nuclear fission is a process in which the nucleus of a heavy atom is broken apart into two or more smaller nuclei. The reaction was first discovered in the late 1930s when a target of uranium metal was bombarded with neutrons. Uranium nuclei broke into two smaller nuclei of roughly equal size with the emission of very large amounts of energy. The control of nuclear fission energy was actually achieved before the production of the first atomic bomb. In 1942, a Manhattan Project research team under the direction of Italian physicist Enrico Fermi (1901–1954) designed and built the first nuclear reactor.
When nuclear fission was discovered near the end of 1938, it was a totally unanticipated phenomenon. It had been known for decades that an enormous energy was bound up in the atomic nucleus, but there were no clear paths toward gaining experimental, let alone practical, access to that energy. 
What Fermi had done, without recognizing it, was discover the process of nuclear fission. Two German scientists, Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann, were the first to officially acknowledge this process in 1938 when they successfully split uranium atoms into two or more parts. The Discovery of Nuclear Fission. To get to the Manhattan Project and the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, it helps to understand the advancements made in physics leading up to World War II. Between 1919 and the early 1930s, scientists were piecing together the important parts of the atom's structure.
Nuclear Fission. The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann and was explained in early 1939 by Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch. The fissionable isotope of uranium, U-235, can be split by bombarding it with a slow, or thermal, neutron. More on nuclear energy Nuclear Fission from Infoplease: 1  nuclear energy: Nuclear Fission-Nuclear Fission The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz ...
After irradiating uranium with neutrons, they were surprised to detect barium, an element only about half of the mass of uranium. The conclusion was inescapable; they had split the uranium atom into two parts. They had discovered nuclear fission -- the splitting of the atom. Two physical properties of nuclear fission are particularly exciting and important; splitting the uranium nucleus with a neutron releases energy and a few additional neutrons. Becquerel had discovered radioactivity. Radioactivity can occur naturally, or, as learned through many investigations during the first half of the 20th Century, radioactive isotopes can be produced artificially by bombarding a target nucleus with a sub-atomic-size particle, a process called transmutation.
Spontaneous fission was discovered in 1940 by Flyorov, Petrzhak and Kurchatov in Moscow, when they decided to confirm that, without bombardment by neutrons, the fission rate of uranium was indeed negligible, as predicted by Niels Bohr; it wasn't. Nuclear fission produces energy for nuclear power and drives the explosion of nuclear weapons. Both uses are possible because certain substances called nuclear fuels undergo fission when struck by fission neutrons, and in turn emit neutrons when they break apart.
| Share | Cite. The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann and was explained in early 1939 by Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch. The fissionable isotope of uranium, U-235, can be split by bombarding it with a slow, or thermal, neutron. More on nuclear energy Nuclear Fission from Infoplease: 1  nuclear energy: Nuclear Fission-Nuclear Fission The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz ...
Nuclear fission of heavy elements was discovered on December 17, 1938 by German Otto Hahn and his assistant Fritz Strassmann, and explained theoretically in January 1939 by Lise Meitner and her nephew Otto Robert Frisch. Frisch named the process by analogy with biological fission of living cells. Nuclear fission produces energy for nuclear power and drives the explosion of nuclear weapons. Both uses are possible because certain substances called nuclear fuels undergo fission when struck by fission neutrons, and in turn emit neutrons when they break apart.
History of Nuclear Energy Production. Physicist Enrico Fermi discovered the potential of nuclear fission in 1934, when he bombarded uranium atoms with neutrons and was surprised to discover that the products of this reaction were much lighter than uranium. 
The fission of U-235 in reactors is triggered by the absorption of a low energy neutron, often termed a slow neutron or a thermal neutron. Other fissionable isotopes which can be induced to fission by slow neutrons are plutonium-239, uranium-233, and thorium-232. While uranium-235 is the naturally occuring fissionable isotope, there are other isotopes which can be induced to fission by neutron bombardment. Plutonium-239 is also fissionable by bombardment with slow neutrons, and both it and uranium-235 have been used to make nuclear fission bombs.