Chickenpox usually starts with mild flu-like symptoms: A couple of days later, the chickenpox rash appears. It starts as little red spots that develop tiny blisters on the top within a few hours. You’ll notice them first on your baby’s face. 
An Introduction to the Symptoms of Chickenpox. Symptoms of chickenpox can begin with one to two days of low-grade fever and tiredness. These early symptoms do not always occur before the chickenpox rash develops. Early chickenpox symptoms are followed by itchy blisters that first appear on the trunk, face, and scalp. These blisters can spread over the entire body, causing between 250 and 500 itchy blisters. The rash can appear in three or more successive waves. Eventually, the blisters crust over. 
The first symptoms are usually mild in children, but they can be severe in teens and adults. These symptoms may continue throughout the illness. About 1 or 2 days after the first symptoms of chickenpox appear, an itchy rash develops. 
Chickenpox Home. The characteristic early symptoms of chickenpox include a low-grade fever and tiredness. However, these classic early symptoms do not always occur before the chickenpox rash begins. When the chickenpox rash appears, it usually appears on the trunk, face, or scalp first. This is often followed by 250 to 500 blisters that can appear over the entire body. Early Symptoms of Chickenpox. The characteristic early symptoms of chickenpox include a low-grade fever and tiredness. However, these classic early symptoms do not always occur before the chickenpox rash begins.
Chickenpox is usually mild, but following direct contact with a person infected with the highly contagious condition, most individuals show signs within 10 to 21-days. For many, a headache that starts out mild a day or so before the chicken pox rash appears will be the first sign of illness. 
The rash may first show up on the face, chest, and back then spread to the rest of the body, including inside the mouth, eyelids, or genital area. It usually takes about one week for all the blisters to become scabs. Other typical symptoms that may begin to appear 1-2 days before rash include: 1  high fever. Some people who have been vaccinated against chickenpox can still get the disease. However, the symptoms are usually milder with fewer blisters and mild or no fever. About 25% to 30% of vaccinated people who get chickenpox will develop illness as serious as chickenpox in unvaccinated persons.
Chickenpox is most contagious from 2 to 3 days before the rash appears until all the blisters have crusted over. The chickenpox rash usually appears on the upper body about 1 or 2 days after the first symptoms start. The trunk usually is most affected, and the arms and legs the least. The rash also may spread to the scalp, face, nose, and mouth. About 14 to 16 days after contact with a person infected with the virus, the first symptoms of chickenpox usually develop. Most people feel sick and have a fever, a decreased appetite, a headache, a cough, and a sore throat. 1  Some children get the chickenpox rash without first having the early symptoms.
Chickenpox (varicella) is a contagious illness that causes an itchy rash and red spots or blisters (pox) all over the body. Chickenpox can cause problems for pregnant women, newborns, teens and adults, and people who have immune system problems that make it hard for the body to fight infection. The first symptoms of chickenpox usually develop about 14 to 16 days after contact with a person infected with the virus. Most people feel sick and have a fever, a decreased appetite, a headache, a cough, and a sore throat. The itchy chickenpox rash usually appears about 1 or 2 days after the first symptoms start. After a chickenpox red spot appears, it usually takes about 1 or 2 days for the spot to go through all its stages. This includes blistering, bursting, drying, and crusting over