Ceftriaxone is usually continued for at least 2 days after symptoms disappear. Ceftriaxone will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor. Do not use any medicine to stop the diarrhea unless your doctor has told you to. 
Ceftriaxone (INN) is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. It is a third-generation cephalosporin. Like other third-generation cephalosporins, it has broad-spectrum activity against Gram-positive bacteria and expanded Gram-negative coverage compared to second-generation agents. Ceftriaxone should not be used in those with an allergy to ceftriaxone or any component of the formulation. It should not be used in hyperbilirubinemic neonates, particularly those who are premature because ceftriaxone is reported to displace bilirubin from albumin binding sites.
Ceftriaxone will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor. Do not use any medicine to stop the diarrhea unless your doctor has told you to. Ceftriaxone is a cephalosporin (SEF a low spor in) antibiotic. It works by fighting bacteria in your body. Ceftriaxone is used to treat many kinds of bacterial infections, including severe or life-threatening forms such as meningitis. Ceftriaxone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
Ceftriaxone sodium is marketed by Hoffmann-La Roche under the trade name Rocephin. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Ceftriaxone should not be used in those with an allergy to ceftriaxone or any component of the formulation. It should not be used in hyperbilirubinemic neonates, particularly those who are premature because ceftriaxone is reported to displace bilirubin from albumin binding sites.
Rocephin is the brand name of ceftriaxone sodium, a third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic that is designed to fight bacteria in your body. It was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1984. Rocephin is manufactured by Roche, and several companies manufacturer the generic form. It is administered through a vein or via a muscle injection. Your doctor may use Rocephin to treat severe or life-threatening forms of bacterial infections such as meningitis. It might also be prescribed to treat lower respiratory tract or urinary tract infections, as well as pelvic inflammatory disease, uncomplicated gonorrhea, ear, and skin infections
Ceftriaxone is a prescription antibiotic that is licensed to treat a number of common infections. It is part of a class of antibiotics called cephalosporins, and it is given either as a shot or through an intravenous line (IV). Ceftriaxone is sold under the brand name Rocephin ® . Ceftriaxone treats a number of common bacterial infections by preventing bacteria from building and maintaining their cell walls.
Ceftriaxone is a cephalosporin (SEF a low spor in) antibiotic. It works by fighting bacteria in your body. Ceftriaxone is used to treat many kinds of bacterial infections, including severe or life-threatening forms such as meningitis. Ceftriaxone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor. Do not use any medicine to stop the diarrhea unless your doctor has told you to.
Ceftriaxone will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor. Do not use any medicine to stop the diarrhea unless your doctor has told you to.