Taxonomy. The average size for an adult female American alligator is 8.2 feet (2.6 m), and the average size for a male is 11.2 feet (3.4 m). Exceptionally large males can reach a weight of nearly half a ton or 1,000 pounds. After two to three years, they leave that area in search of food, or are driven out by larger alligators. One interesting aspect of alligator biology is that they undergo periods of dormancy when the weather is cold. They excavate a depression called a “gator hole” along a waterway and use it during dormancy.
An alligator is a crocodilian in the genus Alligator of the family Alligatoridae. The two living species are the American alligator (A. mississippiensis) and the Chinese alligator (A. sinensis). In addition, several extinct species of alligator are known from fossil remains. No average lifespan for an alligator has been measured. In 1937, a one-year-old specimen was brought to the Belgrade Zoo in Serbia from Germany. It is now 76 years old. Although no valid records exist about its date of birth, this alligator, officially named Muja, is considered the oldest alligator living in captivity.
Answer: congregation. A group of alligator is called a congregation. An Alligator is a crocodilian in the genus Alligator of the family Alligatoridae. The name alligator is an anglicized form of the Spanish el lagarto (the lizard), the name by which early Spanish explorers and settlers in Florida called the alligator. There are two living alligator species: the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) and the Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis)
Alligators first appeared during the Oligocene epoch about 37 million years ago. The name alligator is probably an anglicized form of el lagarto, the Spanish term for the lizard, which early Spanish explorers and settlers in Florida called the alligator. Later English spellings of the name included allagarta and alagarto. No average lifespan for an alligator has been measured. In 1937, a one-year-old specimen was brought to the Belgrade Zoo in Serbia from Germany. It is now 76 years old. Although no valid records exist about its date of birth, this alligator, officially named Muja, is considered the oldest alligator living in captivity.
A male alligator is known as a bull, a female alligator is called a cow, and baby alligators are referred to as hatchlings. Large male alligators prefer to live alone and are very defensive over their territories. 
Answer   A group of alligators is called a congregation or pod (of young). Group of Young Cats   A group of kittens is called a kindle or litter (group of young cats born to one female).
One strange thing about the English language is that the name of a group of animals is often different from one animal species to the next. Some of these group names can be quite unusual too, like a murder of crows. Check out the list of animal group names below. Click of the animal image or species name to see more images and details about the specific species. Check out the list of animal group names below. Click of the animal image or species name to see more images and details about the specific species.
Answer   A group of young alligators is called a pod. 1 Keeping a Bearded Dragon as a Pet Because they are friendly and rather easy to tend, bearded dragons are very popular pets. 2  There are just a few things to keep in mind to ensure a happy and healthy pet. 3  Bear….