: because of your job, office, or position. The Vice President serves ex officio as president of the Senate. [=being vice president means that you are also the president of the Senate]. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. adjective
ex officio. adv, adj. 1. by right of position or office. Abbreviation: ex off. [Latin]. (ˈɛks əˈfɪʃ iˌoʊ). adv., adj. Adj. 1. ex officio-by virtue of an office or position; the head of the department serves as an ex officio member of the board. official-having official authority or sanction; official permission; an official representative.
Ex Officio Law & Legal Definition. Ex Officio is a Latin term meaning by virtue of one's office. It is often used in the context of legislative bodies to automatically confer membership on a subcommittee to a chairman and top minority member of a committee. 
1 Meaning of Ex officio. ( 2 Lat. by virtue of his office). 3  Many powers are granted and exercised by public officers which are not expressly delegated, or an office may be an incident to another, and filled by the incumbent thereof. 4  Thus, the mayor may be ex officio a member of the city board of control. Definition of Ex Officio. In the context of international law, the legal resource A Dictionary of Law, provides a definition of Ex Officio : (Latin: By virtue of holding an office). Thus, the Lord Chief Justice is ex officio a member of the Court of Appea
Ex Officio. [ Latin, From office. ] By virtue of the characteristics inherent in the holding of a particular office without the need of specific authorization or appointment. The phrase ex officio refers to powers that, while not expressly conferred upon an official, are necessarily implied in the office. 
ex officio. A Latin phrase meaning from the office, used to describe something said or done officially or by right of office or position. Adj. 1. ex officio-by virtue of an office or position; the head of the department serves as an ex officio member of the board. official-having official authority or sanction; official permission; an official representative.
ex officio adjective, adverb. › because of a person's ​position in a ​formal ​group: The ​cabinet ​members will also ​attend the ​meeting ex-officio. (Definition of ex officio from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations. ex officio adjective. › because of a person's ​position in a ​formal ​group: The ​president of the ​board is an ex officio ​member of the ​committee. ex officio adverb › The lieutenant ​governor ​serves ex officio on the same ​boards and ​commissions as the ​governor. adverb.