A catchment is an area of land where water collects when it rains, often bounded by hills. As the water flows over the landscape it finds its way into streams and down into the soil, eventually feeding the river. Some of this water stays underground and continues to slowly feed the river in times of low rainfall. 
n. 1. (Physical Geography) Also called: catchment basin, drainage area or drainage basin the area of land bounded by watersheds draining into a river, basin, or reservoir. 2. the area from which people are allocated to a particular school, hospital, etc. n. The area drained by a river or body of water. Also called catchment basin. 2. The surrounding area served by an institution, such as a hospital or school.
Catchment areas are generally established and modified by local governments. These boundaries can be modeled using geographic information systems (GIS). There can be large variability in the services provided within different catchments in the same area depending upon how and when those catchments were established. 1 Supermarkets, on the other hand, have a much lower density, with catchment areas of several neighborhoods (or several villages in rural areas). 2  This principle, similar to the central place theory, makes catchment areas an important area of study for geographers, economists, and urban planners.
Zabbix. vs. SecurActive Performance Vision. In the context of communication networks, a catchment area describes the geographical boundries of a network's components, including its connecting lines. For instance, the geographical area serviced by a wiring closet is the catchment area of that wiring closet. 
Sizing a Catchment Area – The size of the catchment area or roof will determine how much rainwater that you can harvest. The area is based on the “footprint” of the roof, which can be calculated by finding the area of the building and adding the area of the roof’s overhang. For the vast majority of tank-based rainwater harvesting systems, the catchment area is the roof surface. There are some important factors about the roof to consider when planning for a RWH system: Roof Material – The material of the roof is not as important as contaminants that may be on the roof
In human geography, a catchment area is the area from which a city, service or institution attracts a population that use their services. For example, a school catchment area is the geographic area from which students are eligible to attend a local school. 1 Supermarkets, on the other hand, have a much lower density, with catchment areas of several neighborhoods (or several villages in rural areas). 2  This principle, similar to the central place theory, makes catchment areas an important area of study for geographers, economists, and urban planners.
catchment area or drainage basin, area drained by a stream or other body of water. The limits of a given catchment area are the heights of land—often called drainage divides, or watersheds—separating it from neighboring drainage systems. 
The catchment area is the first point of contact for rainfall. For the vast majority of tank-based rainwater harvesting systems, the catchment area is the roof surface. There are some important factors about the roof to consider when planning for a RWH system: Roof Material – The material of the roof is not as important as contaminants that may be on the roof
A drainage basin or catchment basin is an extent or an area of land where surface water from rain, melting snow, or ice converges to a single point at a lower elevation, usually the exit of the basin, where the waters join another waterbody, such as a river, lake, reservoir, estuary, wetland, sea, or ocean. 