BRAND NAME: various. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Insulin is a naturally-occurring hormone secreted by the pancreas. Insulin is required by the cells of the body in order for them to remove and use glucose from the blood. Cells use glucose to produce energy that they need to carry out their functions. People with diabetes mellitus have a reduced ability to take up and use glucose from the blood, and, as a result, the glucose level in the blood rises. In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas cannot produce enough insulin.
Therefore, insulin therapy is needed. In type 2 diabetes, patients produce insulin, but cells throughout the body do not respond normally to the insulin. Nevertheless, insulin also may be used in type 2 diabetes to overcome the resistance of the cells to insulin. People with diabetes mellitus have a reduced ability to take up and use glucose from the blood, and, as a result, the glucose level in the blood rises. In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas cannot produce enough insulin.
NovoLog Mix 70/30 (insulin aspart protamine and insulin aspart (rdna origin)) should not be mixed with any other insulin product. NovoLog Mix 70/30 (insulin aspart protamine and insulin aspart (rdna origin)) should not be used intravenously. NovoLog Mix 70/30 (insulin aspart protamine and insulin aspart (rdna origin)) should not be used in insulin infusion pumps. Glucose monitoring is recommended for all patients with diabetes. Any change of insulin dose should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision. 
A: Novolog 70/30 (insulin aspart/insulin aspart protamine) is a fast-acting medication that begins to work very quickly. After taking Novolog 70/30, you should eat a meal right away. Waiting too long to eat could result in dangerous hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). It's a short-acting, manufactured version of human insulin that lowers sugars in the blood. The medication works by replacing insulin that's normally produced by the body, helping move sugar from the blood into other areas of the body, and stopping the liver from producing more sugar.
In people with type 2 diabetes, NovoLog may be used with another type of insulin or with oral diabetes medicines. Insulin aspart was approved by the FDA in the year 2000 and is manufactured by Novo Nordisk. It's a short-acting, manufactured version of human insulin that lowers sugars in the blood. The medication works by replacing insulin that's normally produced by the body, helping move sugar from the blood into other areas of the body, and stopping the liver from producing more sugar.
Short-acting insulin (regular). Onset of action 30 minutes Peak 2 to 3 hours Duration 3 to 6 hours Brand names Humulin速 RNovolin速 R Additional information Should be injected 30 to 45 minutes before eating. Clear in appearance.Available in vials and pens. Intermediate-acting insulin. Onset of action 2 to 4 hours Peak 4 to 12 hours Duration 12 to 18 hours Brand names Humalin速 N (NPH)Novolin速 N (NPH) Additional information Cloudy in appearance.NPH is available in vials and pens. If the insulin mix that your regimen calls for isn't available as a pre-mix, you'll have to do the mixing yourself because you can't adjust the dosage of one of the insulins in a pre-mix without also adjusting the dosage of the other.
Insulin aspart is a fast-acting form of insulin that works by lowering levels of glucose (sugar) in the blood. Insulin aspart is used to treat type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes in adults and children who are at least 2 years old. Insulin aspart is usually given together with another long-acting insulin. Choose a different place in your injection skin area each time you use this medication. Do not inject into the same place two times in a row. If you use this medicine with an insulin pump, do not mix or dilute insulin aspart with any other insulin. Infusion pump tubing, catheters, and the needle location on your skin should be changed every 48 hours. Throw away any medication leftover in the reservoir
NovoLog is the brand name of the prescription drug insulin aspart, which is used treat diabetes. It's a short-acting, manufactured version of human insulin that lowers sugars in the blood. The medication works by replacing insulin that's normally produced by the body, helping move sugar from the blood into other areas of the body, and stopping the liver from producing more sugar.