There are two types of herpes simplex virus. Type 1 usually causes oral herpes, or fever blisters. Type 2 usually causes genital herpes. Although both type 1 and type 2 viruses can infect oral tissues, more than 95 percent of recurrent fever blister outbreaks are caused by the type 1 virus. Herpes simplex virus is highly contagious when fever blisters are present, and the virus frequently is spread by kissing. Fever blisters and canker sores are two of the most common disorders of the mouth, causing discomfort and annoyance to millions of Americans. Both cause small sores to develop in or around the mouth, and often are confused with each other.
HSV-1 also can infect the eyes, the skin of the fingers and the genitals. Most genital herpes infections are caused by herpes simplex type 2 (HSV-2), however. Symptoms. People infected with HSV-1 for the first time may have fever, headache, nausea and vomiting. They may have painful swelling and open sores in the mouth. 
Also known as cold sores, fever blisters are small blisters that form on the lips or other areas of the face, including the cheeks, chin or nostrils. Fever blisters are caused by the herpes simplex virus, (the same virus that is responsible for genital herpes). But there are two different strands of the virus: HSV-1, which primarily causes oral herpes, and HSV-2, which is usually responsible for genital herpes. Although both types can cause fever blisters, approximately 95 percent of fever blister cases are caused by the type 1 virus. 
Fever blisters are small, red sores that typically appear on the lips, outside the mouth or in the nostrils. They develop a scab after a few days and are painful and irritating. Also called cold sores, fever blisters are caused by the herpes simplex virus. The virus remains in the body, where it can reactivate. A recurrence of fever blisters can be triggered by several factors. Fever blisters are caused by the contagious herpes simplex virus type 1--the most common herpes virus. This virus can be passed from person to person through direct contact with saliva and skin infections. There is no cure for the virus, although there are medications that can treat the condition
Cold sores are caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV) . There are two types of herpes simplex virus: HSV-1 and HSV-2. Both virus types can cause sores around the mouth (herpes labialis) and on the genitals (genital herpes). Cold sores, sometimes called fever blisters, are groups of small blisters on the lip and around the mouth. The skin around the blisters is often red, swollen, and sore. The blisters may break open, leak a clear fluid, and then scab over after a few days. They usually heal in several days to 2 weeks
Fever blisters are one of the most common conditions of the mouth. Also known as cold sores (and known medically as herpes labialis), fever blisters are caused by a contagious virus called the herpes simplex virus. There are two types of herpes simplex viruses: 1  Herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1). In fact, more than 95 percent of recurrent fever blister outbreaks are caused by HSV-1. Most people infected with the HSV-1 virus usually become infected before they are 10 years old. On the other hand, HSV-2 most commonly causes genital herpes (see Genital Herpes Causes) .
Herpes labialis (also called cold sores, fever blisters, herpes simplex labialis, recurrent herpes labialis, or orolabial herpes) is a type of herpes simplex occurring on the lip, i.e. an infection caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV). An outbreak typically causes small blisters or sores on or around the mouth. 
Cold sores are caused by the herpes simplex viruses; the most common cause of sores around the mouth is herpes simplex type 1, or HSV-1. Much less commonly, cold sores may be caused by HSV-2 (herpes simplex type 2), which may result from having oral sex with a person who has genital herpes. 