The Statue of Liberty was then given to the United States and erected atop an American-designed pedestal on a small island in Upper New York Bay, now known as Liberty Island, and dedicated by President Grover Cleveland in 1886.
The Statue of Liberty poem is actually a sonnet by Lazarus written to raise money for the building of the base and is now engraved on a bronze plaque and contained inside of the Statue of Liberty.
Confidence votes 10. There is a plaque with a poem The New Colossus by Emma Lazarus, addressed to those who arrive in America from foreign lands. In part it reads: Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore.
The Statue of Liberty poem as it is known, was written by Emma Lazarus and is named The New Colossus.
A plaque on the copper just under the figure in front declares that it is a colossal statue representing Liberty, designed by Bartholdi and built by the Paris firm of Gaget, Gauthier et Cie (Cie is the French abbreviation analogous to Co.).
There is a plaque with a poem The New Colossus by Emma Lazarus, addressed to those who arrive in America from foreign lands.
The only Statue of Liberty inscription can be found on the tablet in her left hand, which says JULY IV MDCCLXXVI (July 4, 1776), the day the United States adopted the Declaration of Independence.
At first, Lazarus had refused to write the Statue of Liberty poem, but her friend Constance Cary Harrison convinced her that immigrants would be inspired by seeing the statuesque Lady Liberty welcoming them ashore. Emma eventually wrote the poem and it was donated for auction at the Bartholdi Pedestal Fund.
The New Colossus Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame, with conquering limbs astride from land to land; Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand a mighty wo … man with a torch, whose flame is the imprisoned lightning, and her name Mother of Exiles.
The cornerstone also bears a plaque placed by the Freemasons. In 1903, a bronze tablet that bears the text of The New Colossus and commemorates Emma Lazarus was presented by friends of the poet. Until the 1986 renovation, it was mounted inside the pedestal; today it resides in the Statue of Liberty Museum in the base.