If the public company has a P/E ratio of 15, this means investors are willing to pay $15 for every $1 of the company's earnings per share. In this simplistic example, you may find it reasonable to apply that ratio to your own company. If your company had earnings of $2/share, you would multiply it by 15 and would get a share price of $30/share. If you own 10,000 shares, your equity stake would be worth approximately $300,000. You can do this for many types of ratios: book value, revenue, operating income, etc
Calculate the share price. Divide the market capitalization by the current number of stocks outstanding. For this example, the calculation is $100 million divided by 1 million which is $100. Instructions. Look up the current market capitalization for the company. You can find this on your favorite investment website or by asking your stock broker. Let's say you own Stock XYZ and it has a market capitalization of $100 million.
If we take this one step further, we can see that a company that has a $10 stock price and one million shares outstanding (market cap = $10 million) is worth less than a company with a $5 stock price and 10 million shares outstanding (market cap = $50 million). Any percentage changes in a stock price will result in an equal percentage change in a company's value. This is the reason why investors are so concerned with stock prices and any changes that may occur since a $0.10 drop in a $5 stock can result in a $100,000 loss for shareholders with one million shares.
1 If each share is currently trading at $13, the company's market capitalization is (100,000 * 13) or $1,300,000. 2  To look up the number of shares outstanding and the current price per share, you can use financial analysis websites like Google Finance and Yahoo Finance. The most reliable and straightforward way to determine a company's market value is to calculate what is called its market capitalization-the total value of all shares outstanding. Note that this method only works for publicly traded companies, where share values can be easily determined.
Step 2. Divide the the company's price-per-share by its EPS to get the price-to-earnings ratio, also called the P/E ratio. This number can stump new investors. But it's part of an investing vocabulary and helps you come to terms with the difference between price and value. Step 4. Include the company's growth rate and calculate the PEG rate. Take the P/E and divide it by the current growth rate. For example, FatWallet Company has a P/E of 67 and a growth rate of 25 percent. Its PEG is 67/25 = 2.68.
A: A company's worth-its total value-is its market capitalization, and it is represented by the company's stock price. Market cap (as it is commonly referred to) is equal to the stock price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding. For example, a stock with a $5 stock price and 10 million shares outstanding/trading is worth $50 million ($5 x 10 million). Any percentage changes in a stock price will result in an equal percentage change in a company's value. This is the reason why investors are so concerned with stock prices and any changes that may occur since a $0.10 drop in a $5 stock can result in a $100,000 loss for shareholders with one million shares.
Divide the share price by the total sales and you have the price-to-sales ratio. Keep this in mind when a company catches your investment eye. Once considered an old-fashioned and dated metric, the P/S ratio has been dusted off and used to cut through the fluff of earnings statements. Step 4. Include the company's growth rate and calculate the PEG rate. Take the P/E and divide it by the current growth rate. For example, FatWallet Company has a P/E of 67 and a growth rate of 25 percent. Its PEG is 67/25 = 2.68.
One calculation analysts use to measure the amount of stock issued for a company is market capitalization, also known as market cap. Analysts also use market capitalization to compare company size. A company with a large market capitalization is owned by a large group of stockholders and vice versa. Instructions. Look up the current market capitalization for the company. You can find this on your favorite investment website or by asking your stock broker. Let's say you own Stock XYZ and it has a market capitalization of $100 million.