WHQL stands for Windows Hardware Quality Labs (Microsoft). Suggest new definition. This definition appears very frequently and is found in the following Acronym Finder categories: 1  Information technology (IT) and computers. 2  Business, finance, etc. INPROCOMM), a supplier of innovative Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) integrated circuits (ICs) and system solutions, announced today that its IPN2220 passed Wi-Fi(TM) Protected Access (WPA) and Microsoft(R) Windows Hardware Quality Labs (WHQL) certifications.
Windows Hardware Quality Labs (WHQL) DTM test results. EqualLogic's iSCSI-based PS Series storage arrays are Windows Hardware Quality Labs qualified and integrate with Microsoft on a variety of levels--the operation system, applications and backup software. INPROCOMM), a supplier of innovative Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) integrated circuits (ICs) and system solutions, announced today that its IPN2220 passed Wi-Fi(TM) Protected Access (WPA) and Microsoft(R) Windows Hardware Quality Labs (WHQL) certifications.
Short for Windows Hardware Quality Labs, a Microsoft facility that tests and certifies third-party hardware and driver products for compatibility with Windows operating systems. Products that meet the compatibility requirements are then allowed to display Windows logos on product packaging, advertising and collateral and other marketing materials, indicating that the product has met the standards of Microsoft and that the product has been designed to work with the Windows operating systems.
EMSM's NDIS intermediate driver technology is also Microsoft Windows Hardware Quality Labs (WHQL) certified and signed for Windows XP(R) and Windows 2000(R), meeting additional rigorous quality standards set forth by Microsoft. INPROCOMM), a supplier of innovative Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) integrated circuits (ICs) and system solutions, announced today that its IPN2220 passed Wi-Fi(TM) Protected Access (WPA) and Microsoft(R) Windows Hardware Quality Labs (WHQL) certifications.
A company can choose to sign their own drivers rather than go through the WHQL testing process. These drivers would not qualify for the Certified for Windows logos, but they would install on 64-bit versions of Windows and install without a warning message on 32-bit versions of Windows Vista or Windows 7. When Windows XP detects a new device for which it does not have built-in drivers, it will show a Found New Hardware Wizard (see screenshot on the right). One way to avoid the Found New Hardware Wizard from popping up on Windows XP is by pre-installing a WHQL certified driver before the device is plugged in.
Products that pass the WHQL tests get to use a Certified for Windows logotype, which certifies that the Hardware or software has had some share of testing by Microsoft to ensure compatibility. The actual logo used depends on the version of Microsoft Windows. When Windows XP detects a new device for which it does not have built-in drivers, it will show a Found New Hardware Wizard (see screenshot on the right). One way to avoid the Found New Hardware Wizard from popping up on Windows XP is by pre-installing a WHQL certified driver before the device is plugged in.
Windows Hardware Quality Labs testing or WHQL Testing is Microsoft 's testing process which involves running a series of tests on third-party hardware or software, and then submitting the log files from these tests to Microsoft for review. When Windows XP detects a new device for which it does not have built-in drivers, it will show a Found New Hardware Wizard (see screenshot on the right). One way to avoid the Found New Hardware Wizard from popping up on Windows XP is by pre-installing a WHQL certified driver before the device is plugged in.