Centralization and Decentralization. Centralization is said to be a process where the concentration of decision making is in a few hands. All the important decision and actions at the lower level, all subjects and actions at the lower level are subject to the approval of top management. Decentralization is not the same as delegation. In fact, decentralization is all extension of delegation. Decentralization pattern is wider is scope and the authorities are diffused to the lowest most level of management. Delegation of authority is a complete process and takes place from one person to another.
Definition. Centralized organizational structures rely on one individual to make decisions and provide direction for the company. Small businesses often use this structure since the owner is responsible for the company’s business operations. Larger organizations usually require a more decentralized structure since such companies can have several divisions or departments. Business owners may need to consider changing the organizational structure depending on the growth and expansion of
A decentralized organization is one in which most decisions are made by mid-level or lower-level managers, rather than being made centrally by the head of the company. It's the opposite of a centralized organization, in which all decisions are made at the top. Centralized vs. Decentralized Structure. The formal reporting structure of a decentralized organization looks the same as a centralized company, but the decision making process is different. For example, let's look at the approval process for Max to obtain a new office chair at a centralized vs. decentralized company
A decentralized government means that the states holds the power of governing the people as opposed to a centralized government, where the national government will rule all the states. The tension between decentralized and centralized power still exists. 
The word centralization came into use in France in 1794 as the post-French Revolution French Directory leadership created a new government structure. The word decentralization came into usage in the 1820s. Centralization entered written English in the first third of the 1800s; mentions of decentralization also first appear during those years. In the mid-1800s Alexis de Tocqueville wrote that the French Revolution began with a push towards decentralization...[but became,]in the end, an extension of centralization..
Small organizations typically benefit from centralized organizational structures because owners often remain at the forefront of business operations. Larger organizations usually require a more decentralized structure since such companies can have several divisions or departments. Business owners may need to consider changing the organizational structure depending on the growth and expansion of business operations.
Small business owners are usually responsible for creating their companies' organizational structure, which is usually an extension of the owner’s personality, management style and characteristics. Two types of organizational structures are found in the business environment: centralized and decentralized. Larger organizations usually require a more decentralized structure since such companies can have several divisions or departments. Business owners may need to consider changing the organizational structure depending on the growth and expansion of business operations.
Centralized political systems concentrate power and decision-making in a single unit, which can be dispersed geographically, but is more frequently focused within a single city. The advantage of a decentralized political system is that different problem-solving approaches can be tested, then effective solutions can be identified and widely adopted. A clear disadvantage of decentralized power comes in the area of efficiency.
Decentralization policies are part of vigorous initiatives to support rural development. In its most basic definition, decentralization is the transfer of part of the powers of the central government to regional or local authorities. Centralization is in response to the need for national unity, whereas decentralization is in response to demands for diversity. 