View the area or perimeter measurement of a shape. Note The Shape Area and Perimeter dialog box is available only in Microsoft Office Visio Professional. Select the shape in your drawing. On the Tools menu, click Add-Ons, click Visio Extras, and then click Shape Area and Perimeter. The Shape Area and Perimeter dialog box opens and displays the measurements of the shape. To see the measurements in different units, select the units that you want in either the Total area box or the Total perimeter box. In the Field dialog box, in the Category list, click Geometry. In the Field name list, click the measurement that you want to display, and then click OK. In the New Text dialog box, under Details, in the Label box, type a name for your measurement (such as Width, Height, or Angle)
Area Calculator. Here is a handy little tool you can use to find the area of plane shapes. Choose the shape, then enter the values. 
Objectives. Students are introduced to using the area of different shapes to calculate the theoretical probability of an event. Students should be able to: find the area of polygons and other regular shapes. use subtraction to find the remaining area. calculate probability. 
You can easily use a ruler to find the approximate perimeter of a polygon. If you already know the length of each side of your polygon, skip Step 2 and proceed to Step 3. Use your ruler to measure the length of each side of the polygon. Write down the length of each side. If you already know the length and the width of the rectangle, use this formula to find the perimeter. Parallelogram: Perimeter = (2 x a) + (2 x b). Like rectangles, parallelograms have two sets of parallel sides that are the same.
Circle: 2 x (pi) x r. To find the perimeter of a circle, you need to know the length of the radius (r) or the length of the diameter (d) (the diameter is the same as 2 x r in the formula). The radius of a circle is the distance between the center and the outside edge. Pi is approximately equal to 3.14. If you already know the length and the width of the rectangle, use this formula to find the perimeter. Parallelogram: Perimeter = (2 x a) + (2 x b). Like rectangles, parallelograms have two sets of parallel sides that are the same.
Then in 4th and 5th grades, you'll learn to compute with them. Measurement and geometry In 2nd grade, you learned to measure lengths. Now we can measure the length around the edge of an object (perimeter) and how much space something takes up on a flat surface (area). Place value and rounding Going a bit deeper with our understanding of place value from 2nd grade. Measurement and geometry. In 2nd grade, you learned to measure lengths. Now we can measure the length around the edge of an object (perimeter) and how much space something takes up on a flat surface (area). All content in “Measurement and geometry”.
HOW TO MEASURE AN AREA ELLIPSE If the geometric shape resembles an ellipse rather than acircle, the formula A = 0.7854 x a x b is used, with arepresenting the length of the ellipse and b the shorterlength or what may be considered its width. The area then is computed usingthe formula for a circle.Formula:A = a x b, wherea = distance between A and B, andb = average of all lengths a’ to j’(lines are drawn perpendicular to a)Example:a’ = 10 ft.b’ = 14 ft.c’ = 18 ft.d’ = 35 ft.e’ = 13 ft.f’ = 30 ft.g’ = 23 ft. a = 128 ft.h’ = 20 ft. b = 18.6 ft.