Rose of Sharon (Hibiscus syriacus) is a beautiful hibiscus that can be grown in many climates, where we enjoy its beauty during the summertime. The flowers of the most common variety are 2 to 3 inches and pink with a cherry-red throat. They are edible and also make excellent cut flowers. Because it is so popular, Rose of Sharon should be available at nurseries as a bedding plant. Common varieties include Diana, Lady Stanley, Ardens, Lucy, Minerva and Blushing Bride. Some varieties produce white flowers; others can be red, lavender or pink.
Rose of Sharon is a common name that has been applied to several different species of flowering plants that are valued in different parts of the world. It is also a biblical expression, though the identity of the plant referred to is also unclear, and is disputed by biblical scholars. 1 The Rose of Sharon is one name used for the infant Christ by English poet Robert Herrick (1591–1674) in his poem To His Saviour, a Child: A Present by a Child.. 2  Herrick presumably borrowed the term from the King James Version of the Bible and other contemporary sources.
The “rose of Sharon” is found in the Song of Solomon 2:1. Therefore, we can surmise that the rose of Sharon flower is named for the district of Sharon. Webster’s says that the “rose of Sharon” is a hardy plant of the mallow family with the name “Hibiscus Syriacus” and has white, red, pink, or purplish flowers. Question: What is the Rose of Sharon?. Answer: The Hebrew word sharon means “a plain or a level place.” The Plain of Sharon is the coastal plain between the mountains of central Palestine and the Mediterranean Sea, north of Joppa to Mt. Carmel.
Plant Taxonomy of Rose of Sharon: Plant taxonomy classifies rose of sharon, also called althaea or althea, as Hibiscus syriacus. Plant Type: Rose of sharon is a deciduous flowering shrub. USDA Plant Hardiness Zones: The climate is most favorable for growing rose of sharon bushes in USDA plant hardiness zones 5-9. Rose of sharon blooms profusely, and its attractive flowers are its main selling point. Like other types of hibiscus, its flowers bear a striking stamen. Another feature giving the shrub value is its relatively late period of blooming (in the Northeastern U.S., it blooms in August).
Fun Facts. Both of these plants are native to Asia. Rose of Sharon is the national flower of South Korea, while Chinese hibiscus is the state flower of Hawaii and the national flower of Malaysia. Other members of the mallow family with similar large flowers include the marsh mallow, from whose roots the original marshmallows were made; okra; and cotton. While the flowers of rose of Sharon and Chinese hibiscus look similar, these plants are from different climates; one is temperate and the other tropical. So they thrive in different places.
Rose-of-Sharon Hibiscus syriacus. This hardy hibiscus is an easy-to-grow shrub. It is valued for its tight, upright form and large summer blossoms, adding color to the landscape when few other plants are in bloom. Flowers are trumpet-shaped and come in a variety of colors including white, pink, red, purple and violet. 
Rose of Sharon is a woody shrub that grows 8-to-12 feet tall and 6-to-10 feet wide. Because it is very easy to grow and tolerates polluted air, a wide range of light conditions and poor soil, it is common in cities, where it thrives in conditions not many other plants can tolerate. While the flowers of rose of Sharon and Chinese hibiscus look similar, these plants are from different climates; one is temperate and the other tropical. So they thrive in different places.
1 Rose of Sharon (Hibiscus syriacus) is the national flower of South Korea. 2  The first record of the Rose of Sharon (moogoonghwa: 무궁화) grown in Korea is mentioned in an article produced 1,400 years ago. 1 The Rose of Sharon is one name used for the infant Christ by English poet Robert Herrick (1591–1674) in his poem To His Saviour, a Child: A Present by a Child.. 2  Herrick presumably borrowed the term from the King James Version of the Bible and other contemporary sources.
Rose of Sharon is a deciduous flowering shrub and is botanically known as Hibiscus syriacus. Rose of sharon is also known as althea or hardy hibiscus. Rose of sharon is a native of Asia. Rose of sharon prefers full sun and well drained, moist soils. Althea is a beautiful shrub that does not take much care and they will do well in average soils. Rose of sharon blooms in late summer and into the fall. 
Hibiscus syriacus is a species of flowering plant in the family Malvaceae, native to much of Asia (though not, as Linnaeus thought, Syria, in spite of the name he gave it). Common names include Rose of Sharon (especially in North America), rose mallow (United Kingdom) and St Joseph's rod (Italy). Description [edit]. H. syriacus is a hardy deciduous shrub. It is upright and vase-shaped, reaching 2–4 m (7–13 ft) in height, bearing large trumpet-shaped flowers with prominent yellow-tipped white stamens. The flowers are often pink in color, but can also be dark pink (almost purple), light pink or white.