you voted. Answer by afamb (557). Baby leopards are in the animal category of cats. If you are doing a search for them online you can find them under the title of 'baby leopard' as well as under the title of 'leopard cubs'. You can find snow leopard cubs and black leopard cubs under those search terms. Answer by dhuoda (1431). As a member of the cat family, the young leopards are called cubs. This is true of all the big cats of the world such as lions and tigers, also puma and cheetah. This makes these dangerous animals quite different from domestic cat young, which are called the more friendly name kitten
Snow leopards also have many names in the east where they live. In Nepal, snow leopards are called Heung chituwa; in Tibet they are Sah or Shen; in Russia and Mongolia they are Irbis, and in Urdu, one of the languages of central Asia, they are Barfani chita. Taxonomists place the snow leopard in the Kingdom, Animalia, because they are animals, not plants or bacteria. They are placed in the Phylum, chordata because they have spinal cords unlike crabs, for instance. They are further placed in the Class, mamalia because snow leopard mothers nurse their young.
The snow leopard lives in the Himalayas, the mountains of Central Asia and the Mountains of Southwest China as well as the Tibetan plateau. Their range covers 12 countries – Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Snow Leopards are one of the most beautiful and mystical wild cats. They have a proud bearing and people are drawn to their unusual white/gray color. Snow leopards are also very elusive and few people have seen them in the wild.
The Ounce, snow leopard is listed as Endangered (EN), considered to be facing a very high risk of extinction in the wild, on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. A young / baby of a snow leopard is called a 'cub'. The females are called 'leopardess' and males 'leopard'. A Snow Leopard could live in valley ridges, mountain passes and rocky outcrops. The Snow Leopard is active during the twilight hours. Its diet consists of Bharal (it is a kind of sheep), Markhor, goats, ibex, musk deers, birds, hares, marmots and other small rodents. Snow leopards often hunt alone, but then again, they hunt in pairs if the prey is too large
The leopard /ˈlɛpərd/ (Panthera pardus) is one of the five  big cats  in the genus Panthera. It is a member of the Felidae family with a wide range in regions of sub-Saharan Africa, West Asia, the Middle East, South and Southeast Asia to Siberia. 
The Snow Leopard (Uncia uncia) or Ounce. While the leopard and the snow leopard share the same broken-spot markings, the rosettes of the snow leopard are different, more like a jaguar, which lives in South America. A Snow Leopard could live in valley ridges, mountain passes and rocky outcrops. The Snow Leopard is active during the twilight hours. Its diet consists of Bharal (it is a kind of sheep), Markhor, goats, ibex, musk deers, birds, hares, marmots and other small rodents. Snow leopards often hunt alone, but then again, they hunt in pairs if the prey is too large
Taxonomically, the snow leopard was classified as Uncia uncia since the early 1930s. Based on genotyping studies, the cat has been considered a member of the genus Panthera since 2008. Two subspecies have been attributed, but genetic differences between the two have not been settled. The snow leopard was first described by Schreber in 1775 on the basis of an illustration. Schreber named the cat Felis uncia and assumed that it ranges in Barbary, Persia, East India, and China.
Snow leopards are slightly smaller than the other big cats but, like them, exhibit a range of sizes, generally weighing between 27 and 55 kg (60 and 121 lb), with an occasional large male reaching 75 kg (165 lb) and small female of under 25 kg (55 lb). The snow leopard was first described by Schreber in 1775 on the basis of an illustration. Schreber named the cat Felis uncia and assumed that it ranges in Barbary, Persia, East India, and China.