Stenosing tenosynovitis (also known as trigger finger or trigger thumb) is a painful condition caused by the inflammation (tenosynovitis) and progressive restriction of the superficial and deep flexors fibrous tendon sheath adjacent to the A1 pulley at a metacarpal head. 
tenosynovitis. inflammation of a tendon and its sheath, usually seen in the hands and wrists or feet and ankles; it is often the result of intense and continued use, as with pianists and typists. It is painful, and may temporarily disable the affected part. Rheumatoid and other types of arthritis frequently involve tendon sheaths.
tenosynovitis. inflammation of a tendon and its sheath, the lubricated layer of tissue in which the tendon is housed and through which it moves. It is painful, and may temporarily disable the affected part. Arthritis frequently involves tendon sheaths. inflammation of a tendon and its sheath, usually seen in the hands and wrists or feet and ankles; it is often the result of intense and continued use, as with pianists and typists. It is painful, and may temporarily disable the affected part. Rheumatoid and other types of arthritis frequently involve
Definition. Tenosynovitis is an inflammation of the tenosynovium, a sheath that covers tendons. Tendons are the cords that connect bones to muscles in the body. Tenosynovitis can occur in any tendon with a synovial sheath. However, it most often occurs in the hand, wrist, or foot
Definition. De Quervain's tenosynovitis (dih-kwer-VAINS ten-oh-sine-oh-VIE-tis) is a painful condition affecting the tendons on the thumb side of your wrist. If you have de Quervain's tenosynovitis, it will probably hurt when you turn your wrist, grasp anything or make a fist. 
Tenosynovitis is the inflammation of the fluid-filled sheath (called the synovium) that surrounds a tendon. Symptoms of tenosynovitis include pain, swelling and difficulty moving the particular joint where the inflammation occurs. Causes [edit]. Tenosynovitis most commonly results from the introduction of bacteria into a sheath through a small penetrating wound such as that made by the point of needle or thorn. Repeated use of hand tools can precede the condition, as well as arthritis or injury
De Quervain's (say duh-kair-VANZ) tenosynovitis, also called De Quervain's, is a problem that makes the bottom of your thumb and the side of your wrist hurt. When you have de Quervain's, the ropey fiber (tendon) that helps move your thumb away from your fingers becomes swollen. 
De Quervain's tenosynovitis is inflammation of tendons on the side of the wrist at the base of the thumb. These tendons include the extensor pollicis brevis and the abductor pollicis longus tendons, which extend the joints of the thumb. 