1 Traveling with the awning ratchet switch in the roll-up position helps to keep tension in the awning fabric, thereby keeping it in place. 2  Spray WD-40 on rafters if they move stiffly. 3  Never open the RV door before the awning is fully in position. 4  You could tear the awning fabric with the corner of the door. A major benefit of camping in an RV is it typically has many of the features found at home, but one of the best things about RVing is enjoying nature. Most RV's come equipped with outdoor features that keep outdoor elements from hampering your comfort. An awning is one such feature.
RV Awning Operation-Awning roll-out Release the travel locks on both awning arms. Switch the ratchet mechanism to roll out position with the awning rod. Hook the pull strap with the awning rod and roll out the awning. Slide the rafters up into position on the awning arms. Tighten the rafter knobs on both rafters. Raise the awning to the desired height. Dry it thoroughly before re-rolling it. Lower one end of your open awning to allow rainwater to drain off. Peg down the awning feet when the awning is free standing so that a gust of wind will not flip over the awning. Also, the awning may be straped down with the special awning straps available at your local RV store.
RV Awning Operation ... These instructions pertain to the A & E model 8500 RV awning. ... most RV awnings are operated in a similar fashion. Release the travel locks on both RV awning arms. ... ... the travel locks may be released by squeezing the release tabs on some models, or swinging them out of the way, on other models ... Loosen the rafter knobs... the black knob at the rear of the RV awning arm. ... these should be snugged up when travelling to prevent them from vibrating loose and falling out ... Switch the ratchet mechanism to roll out position with the awning rod ...
Tips and Tricks on how to open your RV Awning! www.TriCityRV.com. 1  Autos & Vehicles. 
RV Awning Videos and Information Page : Nothing on or in an RV represents better the goal of the RV lifestyle than the RV awning. The awning represents the lazy carefree days in its shade drinking your favorite I-am-just-hanging-out-relaxing” beverage and generally just “peacing-out”. Tim shows you how to properly set up and take down a standard awning on an RV. This one in particular is an A&E 9000. Most awnings on any motorhome, trailer, or camper are very similar. This is a step-by-step tutorial on the basic set up of awnings
Having trouble opening your travel trailer or motor home awning? This is a short instructional video on how to operate your RV awning. In a few quick steps you will know how to open and close your patio cover. 1  Autos & Vehicles. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
How to Open an RV Awning. Tweet. Improper setup and wind damage can ruin your RV awning. People often bypass the manual to try and open the awning as soon as they get to their destination. If you are a new RV owner or even a seasoned one, some simple tricks can help you set up your awning safely and quickly with minimum hassle. 
Locate the pull strap on the awning. Attach the pull hook to the loop and pull the awning out until it is fully extended. Slide the rafters out onto the awning arms and lock in position. Firmly tighten the turn knobs on both rafters to keep it safely locked in place. A major benefit of camping in an RV is it typically has many of the features found at home, but one of the best things about RVing is enjoying nature. Most RV's come equipped with outdoor features that keep outdoor elements from hampering your comfort. An awning is one such feature.