Essentially the Elevation Training Mask (this was the 1.0. There is now a Elevation Training Mask 2.0) is a gas mask that you place over your face that restricts the amount of oxygen you can breathe. It comes with three different nose pieces (yellow, orange and red) that you attach to the front of the mask that restricts the oxygen intake. Fit: One of the best things about this mask is the ease of use. The Elevation Training Mask (1.0) is a one size fits all product. Putting it on and adjusting the mask to the desired fit was as simple as pulling the 5 rubber straps tight.
Size: One of the great features of the Elevation Training Mask 2.0 is its size. The mask is literally small enough to fit in your pocket and won’t take up much room in your gym or training bag. Confusing: The Elevation Training Mask 2.0 comes with a user manual and a DVD with all the information on how it works. However, the mask can still be a bit confusing to use. Changing the settings from an easier level to harder one (and vice-versa) isn’t as easy as just switching over a cap.
One of the key factors that makes the Training Mask effective is its increased dead volume (see the image for numbers). This large dead volume makes the Elevation Training Mask 2.0 similar to the Frolov device, Samozdrav, and Amazing DIY breathing device, which are used at rest for breathing exercises. One can greatly amplify the positive effects of the High Altitude Training Mask, if he or she combines exercise done with the Training Mask with lifestyle changes that increase body-O2 content (see Learning Section).
Testimonials. The Elevation Training Mask will challenge you physically and mentally and it will teach you how to suffer like never before. He/she who can suffer the most will win.. If you are looking to take your fitness to the next level and become the best athlete that you can be, the Elevation Training Mask is a must-have. I will recommend the Elevation Training Mask to all TeamKattouf athletes around the world. Do not hesitate, get yours today and get the most out of your training!. Each Training Mask 2.0 includes 7 resistance caps and 3 flux valves allowing you to increase your altitude as you increase your lung capacity and oxygen efficiency.
The Elevation Training Mask 2.0 uses a number of valves and plastic caps to control the amount of air coming into your body, with tougher settings for advances users, and easier settings for beginners. Confusing: The Elevation Training Mask 2.0 comes with a user manual and a DVD with all the information on how it works. However, the mask can still be a bit confusing to use. Changing the settings from an easier level to harder one (and vice-versa) isn’t as easy as just switching over a cap.
[You can check out our review of the updated Elevation Training Mask 2.0 here. Or watch the battle of the masks in our Elevation Training 1.0 vs Elevation Training Mask 2.0 here]. Earlier this year I began testing the Elevation Training Mask which I detailed in my First Impression Review. Fit: One of the best things about this mask is the ease of use. The Elevation Training Mask (1.0) is a one size fits all product. Putting it on and adjusting the mask to the desired fit was as simple as pulling the 5 rubber straps tight.
“Elevation” Training Mask is great because it regulates how much air you can breath in – making it so that you breathe less oxygen – in turn, making the air thinner (due to the low oxygen intake it’s similar to altitude training). With reduced oxygen consumption the human body changes in several ways. Fit: One of the best things about this mask is the ease of use. The Elevation Training Mask (1.0) is a one size fits all product. Putting it on and adjusting the mask to the desired fit was as simple as pulling the 5 rubber straps tight.
The Elevation Training Mask 2.0 is essentially a mask that covers your face and controls the amount of oxygen going it your body. The ideal is simple: restrict the amount of oxygen into your body to make workouts more difficult, and improve your overall fitness. Confusing: The Elevation Training Mask 2.0 comes with a user manual and a DVD with all the information on how it works. However, the mask can still be a bit confusing to use. Changing the settings from an easier level to harder one (and vice-versa) isn’t as easy as just switching over a cap.
The Elevation Training Mask is a breathing device that is similar to military gas masks (version 1 of Training Mask). Version 2 or 2.0 is simpler since it does not restrict eye vision (see the image on the right). One can greatly amplify the positive effects of the High Altitude Training Mask, if he or she combines exercise done with the Training Mask with lifestyle changes that increase body-O2 content (see Learning Section).
Fidgety: As mentioned before, the Elevation Training Mask 2.0 comes with seven small caps, and three valves. The caps are made from plastic and could break easily if you don’t take care of them. In addition, these pieces are also very small and can be lost or misplaced quite easily. Confusing: The Elevation Training Mask 2.0 comes with a user manual and a DVD with all the information on how it works. However, the mask can still be a bit confusing to use. Changing the settings from an easier level to harder one (and vice-versa) isn’t as easy as just switching over a cap.