Obesity is a complex disease resulting from the interactions of a wide variety of hereditary and environmental factors. The combined progress in quantitative genetics, genomics and bioinformatics has contributed to a better understanding of the genetic and molecular basis of obesity. However genes do not always predict future health. Genes and behavior may both be needed for a person to be overweight. In some cases multiple genes may increase one s susceptibility for obesity and require outside factors; such as abundant food supply or little physical activity.
SUMMARY: Science shows that genetics plays a role in obesity. Genes can directly cause obesity in disorders such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome. However genes do not always predict future health. Genes and behavior may both be needed for a person to be overweight. In some cases multiple genes may increase one s susceptibility for obesity and require outside factors; such as abundant food supply or little physical activity.
As of 2006, more than 41 sites on the human genome have been linked to the development of obesity when a favorable environment is present. The involvement of genetic factors in the development of obesity is estimated to be 40–70%. One study found that 80% of the offspring of two obese parents were obese, in contrast to less than 10% of the offspring of two parents who were of normal weight. The thrifty gene hypothesis postulates that due to dietary scarcity during human evolution people are prone to obesity.
Any explanation of the obesity epidemic has to consider both genetics and the environment. One explanation that is often cited is the mismatch between today’s environment and energy-thrifty genes that multiplied in the distant past, when food sources were unpredictable. Genetic changes in human populations occur too slowly to be responsible for the obesity epidemic. Nevertheless, the variation in how people respond to the same environment suggests that genes do play a role in the development of obesity.
Behavior, environment, and genetic factors all have a role in causing people to be overweight and obese. Obesity results from the energy imbalance that occurs when a person consumes more calories than their body burns. Obesity is a serious public health problem because it is associated with some of the leading causes of death in the U.S. and worldwide, including diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and some types of cancer. Genetic changes in human populations occur too slowly to be responsible for the obesity epidemic. Nevertheless, the variation in how people respond to the same environment suggests that genes do play a role in the development of obesity.
Genes may play a role in predisposing a person to obesity but that's not an excuses for obese people to say it's not their fault, otherwise these surgeries won't be so successful in making obese people lose weight. So yeah... Stop eating high calorie foods like no other and control your mouth. Here is a round-up of some recent genes, and their products, that have been linked to obesity : Leptin: Often referred to as the “obesity hormone,” leptin is made by fat cells and acts as a thermostat for the body’s energy needs.
Like many other medical conditions, obesity is the result of an interplay between genetic and environmental factors. Polymorphisms in various genes controlling appetite and metabolism predispose to obesity under certain dietary conditions. The percentage of obesity that can be attributed to genetics varies widely, depending on the population examined, from 6% to 85%. One study found that 80% of the offspring of two obese parents were obese, in contrast to less than 10% of the offspring of two parents who were of normal weight. The thrifty gene hypothesis postulates that due to dietary scarcity during human evolution people are prone to obesity.
Risk factors. Obesity usually results from a combination of causes and contributing factors, including: 1  Genetics. 2  Your genes may affect the amount of body fat you store, and where that fat is distributed. 1 Genetics. 2  Your genes may affect the amount of body fat you store, and where that fat is distributed. 3  Genetics may also play a role in how efficiently your body converts food into energy and how your body burns calories during exercise. 4  Family lifestyle. 5  Obesity tends to run in families
The greatest risk factor for child obesity is the obesity of both parents. This may be reflected by the family's environment and genetics. Other reasons may also be due to psychological factors and the child's body type. One study found that 80% of the offspring of two obese parents were obese in contrast to less than 10% of the offspring of two parents who were of normal weight. The percentage of obesity that can be attributed to genetics varies from 6% to 85% depending on the population examined.