Well then SwagBucks is not for you. A lot of the other tasks that you can do within SwagBucks are a hassle to deal with, are time consuming and do not compensate you enough to make it worthwhile. If you want to start using your time more effectively and earn extra income on the side then there are much better ways. 
As of April 2015, Swagbucks.com is ranked by Alexa Internet as the 170th most visited website in the United States and the 708th most trafficked website globally. As of March 2015, the site serves more than 12 million members and has awarded more than $100 million in retail gift card rewards to its members. 1 Hourly Random Winner-Users that are logged in to the site can check the SwagBucks blog every hour. 2  If their username and avatar is displayed in the Hourly Winner section, the user can click Claim Your Swagbucks and may earn 1,000 Swag Bucks. 3  The hourly random winner is now seen in the blog.
Swagbucks is essentially a search engine that pays you in the form of ”swag bucks” for using it. There are plenty of other ways to obtain swag bucks too, like taking surveys, playing games, and cutting coupons, but it’s a search engine at heart. However, there’s another Swagbucks user that seems to be popping up left and right. It’s the swag bucks chaser – the person who completes tasks, plays games, and takes surveys solely for the purpose of obtaining more swag bucks. This person is simply wasting their time.
Depending on how you plan to redeem your swagbucks, such as for cash, shopping, gift card, thingies, etc. the value varies. For instance at the time of this review, I needed 700 swagbucks to get a $5 cash pay out via paypal. However I only needed 450 swagbucks for a $5 amazon gift card. Andrew, Doing offers is a great way to earn with swagbucks or other companies like fusion cash http://www.workathomenoscams.com/2007/08/27/is-fusion-cash-fusioncashcom-a-scam/ , provided you know the ins and outs.
Swagbucks is an online rewards and cash back program. Simply do the things you'd normally do online, such as search the web, answer polls, watch videos, play games, and shop; you'll accumulate points that are quickly redeemable for free gift cards, PayPal Cash or pre-paid cards from Visa.
This offer is presented to you by Swagbucks on behalf of a third-party merchant or sponsor (Merchant). Swagbucks does not endorse (and therefore is not responsible to you for) the Merchant's views, policies, products or services. 
Then each time you do a search using the Swagbucks search engine, you gain Swag Bucks which are good towards a wide variety of prizes, including everything from GPS systems to memorabilia to gift cards to actual cash via PayPal. I use the Swagbucks search engine, and I also get the guarenteed 3 Swagbucks everyday (toolbar, poll, and surveys…however, I never actually do the surverys). I agree with your review. Swagbucks is great for the casual swagger, but it can be time consuming to do everything.
Description. Earn FREE gift cards faster with the Swagbucks mobile app. Swagbucks lets you earn points called SB for shopping, answering surveys, exploring & discovering what's online. 15 million members have already redeemed their Swag Bucks for over $100 million in free gift cards! The Swagbucks app is the perfect way to extend your earning opportunities wherever you go
Members of the Swagbucks program are able to earn and redeem Swag Bucks in a variety of ways through the SwagBucks website and mobile apps. While a single Swag Buck is generally worth 1 US cent (¢), the value may be greater when used for certain rewards. 1 Hourly Random Winner-Users that are logged in to the site can check the SwagBucks blog every hour. 2  If their username and avatar is displayed in the Hourly Winner section, the user can click Claim Your Swagbucks and may earn 1,000 Swag Bucks. 3  The hourly random winner is now seen in the blog.