Grease each muffin cup with nonstick spray or oil and crack an egg into it. Top the egg with 1 to 2 tablespoons of cream, to prevent it from drying out, or just salt and pepper, and bake in a preheated 325 F oven for about 15 minutes for a firm yolk. If you're cooking breakfast or brunch for a crowd, use a muffin pan to make up to a dozen eggs -- poached, scrambled or hard-boiled -- at once. Prepare eggs en masse in the pan for a week's worth of quick breakfast treats that are a snap to reheat in the morning.
1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Put 1 egg in each of 12 muffin cups. 3  Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes. 4  Plunge baked eggs in a large bowl filled with ice water until cooled completely, about 10 minutes. Ready In. 1 
Directions. 1  Preheat oven 375 degrees. 2  In medium frying pan fry bacon to soft transparent stage. 3  Drain on paper towels. 4  Line each slice around the side of each muffin cup. 5  Ends may overlap. 6  Break egg directly in the center of each muffin cup. 12 cup muffin pan. 7  Slightly salt and pepper. 8  Cook 15 to 20 minutes. 
Instructions. Preheat the oven to 350. 1. Crack eggs into a lightly greased muffin tin. 2. Sprinkle a bit of salt and pepper onto the eggs. 3. Bake at 350 for fifteen minutes. You can scramble the yolk if you’d like, but we prefer them with the yolk still intact. 
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350°. 2  In a large skillet, cook sausage over medium heat until no longer pink; drain. 3  In a large bowl, beat eggs. 4  Add onion, green pepper, salt, garlic powder and pepper. 5  Stir in sausage and cheese. 6  Spoon by 1/3 cupfuls into muffin cups coated with cooking spray. 1
Boiling a lot of eggs at once requires a big pot and attention to the stovetop. Corral them in a muffin tin while they bake in the oven for an easy preparation process. Place 1 whole egg in each tin and bake in a preheated 350 F oven for about 30 minutes. Remove them from the oven and place them into an ice-water bath to cool; then, peel for a quick snack or to use in recipes. If you're cooking breakfast or brunch for a crowd, use a muffin pan to make up to a dozen eggs -- poached, scrambled or hard-boiled -- at once. Prepare eggs en masse in the pan for a week's worth of quick breakfast treats that are a snap to reheat in the morning.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and place a teaspoon of plain water into each muffin cup. Crack an egg into each section and carefully place the eggs in the oven. Bake 11 to 12 minutes for poached eggs that are runny in the center, with a firm white, according to testers at The Kitchn website. If you're cooking breakfast or brunch for a crowd, use a muffin pan to make up to a dozen eggs -- poached, scrambled or hard-boiled -- at once. Prepare eggs en masse in the pan for a week's worth of quick breakfast treats that are a snap to reheat in the morning.
6 large eggs. Heat an oven to 400 degrees. Bring about 2 cups of water to a boil, either on your stove top or in your microwave oven. Pour about 2 tablespoons of boiling water into each tin in a muffin tin pan (regular or large size muffin tins work fine, just depends on the shape you like for your finished egg). Crack a large egg into each tin. Pour about 2 more tablespoons of water on top of each egg. Bake in oven for EXACTLY six minute
All you have to do is set your oven to 350F, grease a muffin tin with non stick cooking spray, and crack your eggs into the tin. Then add some flavor with a little shake of salt and pepper. Bake for about 17 minutes and viola. How to Bake Eggs in the Oven. 
This oven method, of cooking eggs in the shell, is not only fool proof, but the eggs come out absolutely perfect and you can make a ba-jillion at once!! Preheat your oven to 350 and place large size eggs in a mini-muffin pan (large end down). If you don't have a mini-muffin pan, you can use a regular cupcake pan (they they will just roll around a little more). 