To learn more about becoming a licensed foster parent or certified adoptive parent, please attend an orientation meeting in your area. For a list of orientations, click here. The next steps in becoming a foster or adoptive parent include choosing an agency to work with and starting pre-service training. In addition to the preparation of families to provide care for Arizona’s children, it assists in the placement of children in appropriate homes, provides supervision and support for that placement, provides respite care for children, and activities designed to retain families in the program.
Foster Care in Arizona. Arizona’s foster care system manages an unprecedented 18,000 foster children today. Through no fault of their own, children who enter foster care have been removed from their homes due to abuse, neglect, abandonment and/or drug exposure. Once they are in Arizona’s foster care system, they are often scared and confused. Services for Foster Care. 1  We offer support for families caring for a relative’s child through our kinship foster care program. 2  For medically fragile foster children from newborn to 5 years old, we offer a specialized medical foster care program that caters to their individual needs.
Foster Care. In partnership with DES, AzPaC, and its Partner Agencies, recruits, trains, and assesses family’s ability and readiness to become foster parents in Arizona. In addition, the partnership provides services to the family to support in their parenting efforts. In addition to the preparation of families to provide care for Arizona’s children, it assists in the placement of children in appropriate homes, provides supervision and support for that placement, provides respite care for children, and activities designed to retain families in the program.
To become a licensed foster parent in the state of Arizona you must: 1  Be 21 years of age or older. 2  Married or single. 3  Have adequate income to support your own family’s needs. 4  Have adequate living space for a foster child including a separate bed. 5  Provide personal references. 6  Pass a criminal background check. 7  Provide a physician’s statement 8  ... Compl 
DES-full-logo.png. Thank you for your interest in becoming a foster parent. For the safety and benefit of every child in foster care, the foster parent licensing process is very detailed. We want you to understand what is involved throughout the process and help you each step of the way
To be considered for a foster care license, an applicant must: 1  Be at least 21 years of age. 2  Have sufficient income to support themselves without relying on foster care payments. 3  Discipline children in a positive manner without the use of physical punishment. 
Step 6: Attend Training. Parenting a child in foster care in not the same as parenting a child to whom you have given birth. Training provides you with tools and challenges you to grow and develop so you can parent children who have been neglected and abused. People interested in becoming foster parents will be able to select a foster home licensing agency that will assist them in completing their family home study and inspection, foster parent training and explain the other requirements. Step 2: Tell Us About Yourself.
To learn more about some of the children available for foster care or adoption, visit our “Meet the Kids” Gallery to see their photos, bios and videos. If you are interested in becoming a foster parent, please take the next steps to learn more about how you can help a child. Services for Foster Care. 1  We offer support for families caring for a relative’s child through our kinship foster care program. 2  For medically fragile foster children from newborn to 5 years old, we offer a specialized medical foster care program that caters to their individual needs.
Foster Care. There are more than 17,000 children in Arizona’s foster care system and a critical need for more loving foster families to care for them across the state. Arizona’s Children Association recruits, trains and provide necessary support for foster families statewide. Arizona’s Children Association’s foster families must be approved by the state through the foster licensing process, which includes orientation, interviews, required training hours, fingerprinting and home study. This process typically takes 4-6 months to complete. They must also be: