The somatic nervous system is responsible for all voluntary muscle contractions and sensory information processing, while the other portions of the peripheral nervous system control involuntary processes of the body. The somatic nerve system controls all five senses. Heat and pain are all transmitted by afferent neurons. The central nervous system consists of the brain and spinal cord. Afferent neurons carry impulses from sense organs to the brain, while efferent neurons carry impulses from the brain to the muscles.
The somatic nervous system is part of the peripheral nervous system, which is the entire nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. Specifically, the somatic nervous system is responsible for movement of voluntary muscles and the process known as a reflex arc. This system carries nerve impulses back and forth between the central nervous system, which is the brain and the spinal cord, and the skeletal muscles, skin, and sensory organs. One of the most complex systems in the body is the nervous system. In this lesson, you will learn about the somatic nervous system and how important it is to body functions. Examples and illustrations will be provided to assist your understanding of the lesson.
(Answer #1). The body's entire system of nerves and ganglia, excluding the brain and spinal cord, is called the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system is divided into two main parts-the autonomic nervous system and the somatic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system's main job is to adjust and maintain the body's internal environment. These functions occur without us having conscious control of them. Some examples of the somatic nervous system include: the blinking reflex, knee jerk reflex, gag reflex, and the startle reflex and rooting reflex in infants. Michael Ugulini | (Level 2) Educator.
Somatic Nervous System. Sections. The somatic nervous system (SNS) is made up of nerves that are connected to skin, muscles and sensory organs (the eyes, ears, nose, skin, etc.). This system enables our voluntary control of muscles, as well as our reception of sights, sounds, sensations, tastes and smells. While the somatic nervous system deals with our voluntary control of muscles, the autonomic nervous system (ANS) deals with involuntary actions, such as digestion, salivation, heart rate, perspiration and the “fight or flight” response.
The somatic nervous system (SoNS or voluntary nervous system) is the part of the peripheral nervous system associated with skeletal muscle voluntary control of body movements. The SoNS consists of afferent nerves and efferent nerves. Afferent nerves are responsible for relaying sensation from the body to the central nervous system (CNS); efferent nerves are responsible for sending out commands from the CNS to the body, stimulating muscle contraction; they include all the non-sensory neurons connected with skeletal muscles and skin.
The system includes all the neurons connected with muscles, skin and sense organs. The somatic nervous system consists of efferent nerves responsible for sending brain signals for muscle contraction. 
The somatic nervous system (SNS) is the portion of the nervous system responsible for voluntary body movement and for sensing external stimuli. All five senses are controlled by this system. The SNS is a sub-part of the peripheral nervous system. The somatic nerve system controls all five senses. Heat and pain are all transmitted by afferent neurons. The central nervous system consists of the brain and spinal cord. Afferent neurons carry impulses from sense organs to the brain, while efferent neurons carry impulses from the brain to the muscles.
The somatic nervous system is the system that helps the body adjust to the external environment through the voluntary movement of the skeletal system. Some examples of the somatic nervous system include: the blinking reflex, knee jerk reflex, gag reflex, and the startle reflex and rooting reflex in infants. Michael Ugulini | (Level 2) Educator.
Answers. Best Answer: Examples for central nervous system;The central nervous system is made up of the •spinal cord and brain/ The central nervous system is responsible for almost everything we do -- right from something as simple as breathing to something complex, like solving a math problem. The system includes all the neurons connected with muscles, skin and sense organs. The somatic nervous system consists of efferent nerves responsible for sending brain signals for muscle contraction. Examples: (1) Reflexive response-A reflex arc is an automatic reaction that allows an organism to protect itself when an imminent danger is perceived