Oil from the moringa seed has been prized for centuries as a well loved beauty product. Ancient Egyptians used the moringa oil known to them as Behen Oil and believed the natural power of the plant enhanced skin’s beauty and suppleness. Grenera Nutrients Moringa Oil is a 100% natural skin moisturizer. Our moringa oil is derived from the seeds of organic moringa trees. We use cold press system so none of the nutrients are diminished in the process of creating the final product. Our moringa oil won’t go rancid.
Moringa oil is extracted from the seeds of Moringa oleifera, also known as the Drumstick tree. Moringa oil has got a special name, it is Ben oil. It is called so because it has high amounts of behenic acid. Moringa oil has been mentioned as a very useful oil in the medicinal books of Greece and Rome. Even today, this oil is used for a number of industrial applications. Moringa seed oil offers many health benefits when used on the skin and also when taken internally. 1. Excellent Moisturizer Ben oil is one of the best moisturizers for the skin. It should be applied to the skin as a massage oil. It imparts glow to the skin and makes it well moisturized, but not too oiled
Moringa Oleifera, commonly known as Moringa is the most nutritious tree found on the earth. Moringa is considered as the power house of Nutrients because the Moringa leaves contain more than 90 nutrients and 46 antioxidants. Moringa tree grows in tropical conditions and this tree is native to Indian and Africa. 
Because Moringa oil contains powerful antioxidants, can also be used and included in soaps, shampoos, body washes and skin scrubs. Moringa oil absorbs rapidly into the skin, making it is a good choice for beauty products that are rinsed off the skin, such as soaps and shampoos. 1 Moringa oil rejuvenates dull, tired and aging skin. 2  Moringa oil a ntioxidants and nutrients help fight free radical damage that can cause skin tissue damage and lead to the formation of wrinkles. 3  Moringa oil helps improve the appearance of wrinkles and prevents sagging of facial muscles.
Moringa oleifera is the most widely cultivated species of the genus Moringa, which is the only genus in the family Moringaceae. 
Moringa seed has a fairly soft kernel, so the oil can be extracted by hand using a screw press (also known as a spindle or bridge press). The seed is first crushed, 10% by volume of water is added, followed by gentle heating over a low fire for 10-15 minutes, taking care not to burn the seed. 1 Moringa oil rejuvenates dull, tired and aging skin. 2  Moringa oil a ntioxidants and nutrients help fight free radical damage that can cause skin tissue damage and lead to the formation of wrinkles. 3  Moringa oil helps improve the appearance of wrinkles and prevents sagging of facial muscles.
Moringa oil comes from the seeds of the moringa oleifera tree, the most common species of the genus moringa in the flowering plant family moringaceae. The tree is native to India and countries in the Himalayan region. As predicted in 7 Exotic Ingredients That You'll Be Seeing More Of, moringa oil is being praised as the new wonder oil. It's hardly new. It has been used for health and beauty for centuries. The moringa tree is also called the Miracle Tree and Tree of Life because of its many benefits and uses. It is a food source.
Moringa is a plant that is native to the sub-Himalayan areas of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. It is also grown in the tropics. The leaves, bark, flowers, fruit, seeds, and root are used to make medicine. Moringa is sometimes applied directly to the skin as a germ-killer or drying agent (astringent). It is also used topically for treating pockets of infection (abscesses), athlete’s foot, dandruff, gum disease (gingivitis), snakebites, warts, and wounds.
Moringa oil is rich in vitamins and unsaturated fatty acids. Moringa oil contains antiseptic and anti-inflammatory properties, which help heal minor skin complaints such as cuts, bruises, burns, insect bites, rashes and scrapes quickly. 1 Moringa oil rejuvenates dull, tired and aging skin. 2  Moringa oil a ntioxidants and nutrients help fight free radical damage that can cause skin tissue damage and lead to the formation of wrinkles. 3  Moringa oil helps improve the appearance of wrinkles and prevents sagging of facial muscles.