More than 30% of prescription painkiller deaths involve methadone, even though only 2% of painkiller prescriptions are for this drug. Six times as many people died of methadone overdoses in 2009 than a decade before.
Methadone is approved for different indications in different countries. Common is approval as an analgesic and approval for the treatment of opioid dependence. It is not intended to reduce the use of non-narcotic drugs such as cocaine, methamphetamine, or alcohol.
1 Support the use of methadone as a treatment for opioid dependence in opioid treatment programs. 2  Use prescription drug monitoring programs to identify patients who are using methadone or other prescription painkillers for nonmedical purposes.
* Prescription painkiller overdoses refers to deaths from using harmful amounts of opioid or narcotic pain relievers, including drugs such as Vicodin (hydrocodone), OxyContin (oxycodone), Opana (oxymorphone), and methadone. Methadone is frequently prescribed for pain.
Methadone is an opioid medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Methadone reduces withdrawal symptoms in people addicted to heroin or other narcotic drugs without causing the high associated with the drug addiction. Methadone is used as a pain reliever and as part of drug addiction detoxification and maintenance programs and is only available from certified pharmacies.
A: Methadose (methadone) is a narcotic pain reliever similar to morphine. Methadone is prescribed for pain and also drug addiction detoxification. Methadone also is used to reduce withdrawal symptoms in people addicted to heroin or other narcotic drugs without causing the high associated with the drug addiction.
Methadone is a medication used to relieve severe pain. It's also used to prevent withdrawal symptoms in people who are addicted to opiate drugs such as morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, and fentanyl. Dolophine and Methadose are two common brand names for methadone.
Methadone – Drug Facts: Methadone is used to relieve painful withdrawal symptoms suffered by addicts of illegally abused prescription and street drugs, such as heroine. Over 980,000 people are addicted to heroin in the United States.