The uterus is a very important part of a woman. No more than an avocado in size when the women is not pregnant, it holds the baby for the full course of 9 months of pregnancy. The normal size of a uterus may vary from woman to woman, although the general dimension should not exceed 3 inches in long. On the other hand, the normal size of a uterus is something that is difficult to establish in the absence of medical tests. Naturally, many women are caught unaware of their condition, which compounds the problem further. This is riskier if the abnormality in size is due to malignant cysts.
Size after Puberty. The normal length is about 7.6 cm and width is 4.5 cm. The average normal thickness is 3.0 cm and in an adult female, the uterus weights about 60 grams but ranges up to 200 grams depending on various conditions. Pregnancy. This results in the most dynamic changes in uterine size. As the pregnancy progresses beyond 12 weeks, the uterus begins to rise up out of the pelvis. At 20 weeks, the fundus, or top, of the uterus is felt at the level of the belly button.
Re: What is an average size uterus? I was under the impression that the uterus is about the size of your fist. For ps15, I was told that after my hysterectomy, I had lost about 10-12 lbs. My doctor states my uterus was about the size of a 5 month pregnancy.
The Uterus. To gain an understanding of how the reproductive system works, it's really important that you also have a basic understanding of The Uterus and all of it's relevant components. A normal uterus is typically the size and shape of an upside down pear and weighs somewhere around 6 ounces. Its dimensional size is about eight to ten centimeters by six centimeters (roughly 3-4 inches by 2 inches). 
The prepubertal uterus is about 3.5 cm in length and thickness is on average 1 cm. Hormonal stimulation that occurs during puberty will result in rapid growth and changes in the size of the uterus. The normal length is about 7.6 cm and width is 4.5 cm. The average normal thickness is 3.0 cm and in an adult female, the uterus weights about 60 grams but ranges up to 200 grams depending on various conditions. Pregnancy. This results in the most dynamic changes in uterine size. As the pregnancy progresses beyond 12 weeks, the uterus begins to rise up out of the pelvis. At 20 weeks, the fundus, or top, of the uterus is felt at the level of the belly button.
A. From conception to delivery, a woman's uterus can grow from the size of a pear to the size of a watermelon. But pregnancy isn't the only potential reason for an enlarged uterus. An enlarged uterus is common and can be a symptom of a variety of medical conditions, some of which require treatment. 
The uterus (from Latin uterus, plural uteri) or womb is a major female hormone-responsive reproductive sex organ of most mammals, including humans. One end, the cervix, opens into the vagina, while the other is connected to one or both fallopian tubes, depending on the species. The human uterus is pear-shaped and about 3 in. (7.6 cm) long, 4.5 cm broad (side to side) and 3.0 cm thick (anteroposterior). A nonpregnant adult uterus weighs about 60 grams. The uterus can be divided anatomically into four segments: The fundus, corpus, cervix and the internal os.
In inches, the size of my uterus was 6.3 inches (length) x 4.3 inches (width) x 3.9 inches (AP diameter). Because I'm petite, my uterus could be felt above my belly button. I'm 47 and 4 years from the average age of onset of menopause (51). What I do want to point out is that a centimeter (cm) is 10 millimeters (mm). So the size of my uterus in millimeters (mm) before surgery was 160mm x 110mm x 100mm. The anteroposterior (front-to-back or AP) diameter of my uterus was 100mm.
Normal size of a non-pregnant uterus is sort of the size of a pear or maybe an avocado for a bigger girl. It grows to grapefruit size very fast in early pregnancy, then on from there. A very stretchy muscle, and very accomodating of things inside it. What I do want to point out is that a centimeter (cm) is 10 millimeters (mm). So the size of my uterus in millimeters (mm) before surgery was 160mm x 110mm x 100mm. The anteroposterior (front-to-back or AP) diameter of my uterus was 100mm.
I was also wondering what the average size of a normal uterus was. I had my hysterectomy last week-my uterus weighed over 10 pounds. My first visit is tomorrow-I will see the pathology reports then, but one of my fibroids was 8.5 cm and there were 4 or 5 about 6-6.5 cms each. I was under the impression that the uterus is about the size of your fist. For ps15, I was told that after my hysterectomy, I had lost about 10-12 lbs. My doctor states my uterus was about the size of a 5 month pregnancy.