The geological time scale (GTS) is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other Earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth’s history. Millions of Years. This clock representation shows some of the major units of geological time and definitive events of Earth history. The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on Earth; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga (billion years ago).
Proterozoic (Early Life) Era. Well, here we are about 700 million years ago, near the end of the longest time period in geologic history. It began about two billion years after the formation of the earth and lasted about another two billion years! The Precambrian covers almost 90% of the entire history of the Earth. It has been divided into three eras: the Hadean, the Archean and the Proterozoic. Source: Unknown. The Precambrian Era comprises all of geologic time prior to 600 million years ago. The Precambrian was originally defined as the era that predated the emergence of life in the Cambrian Period.
The Geologic Time Scale. The 4.55 billion-year geologic time scale is subdivided into different time periods of varying lengths. All of Earth history is divided into two great expanses of time. The Precambrian began when Earth first formed 4.55 billion years ago and ended about 570 million years ago. The Phanerozoic Eon began 570 million years ago and continues today. This time scale, from the Decade of North American Geology, is widely used in North America
The Precambrian Era began with the formation of Earth around 4600 Ma (million years ago). It extends to the beginning of the Cambrian Period, about 542 Ma, when macroscopic ha … rd-shelled animals first appeared in abundance. The Precambrian is a longer span of geologic time leading up the the Paleozoic era. During the Cambrian period of the Paleozoic era, there was an explosion in the evolution of … life forms. In the Precambrian, life was restricted to the sea. In the Paleozoic, life began on land
Precambrian time covers the vast bulk of the Earth's history, starting with the planet's creation about 4.5 billion years ago and ending with the emergence of complex, multicelled life-forms almost four billion years later. Some three billion years ago the Earth's atmosphere was virtually devoid of oxygen. At about 2.4 billion years ago, oxygen was released from the seas as a byproduct of photosynthesis by cyanobacteria. Levels of the gas gradually climbed, reaching about one percent around two billion years ago.
Paleozoic (Ancient Life) Era This is the first of three geologic eras squeezed into the last 10% of Earth's whole geologic history. But things are really starting to happen! This last 10% of Earth's history is called the Phanerozoic Eon or eon of evident life.. This means that rocks from the Phanerozoic contain fossils, lots of fossils! The Paleozoic period lasted about 325 million years, from about 570 million years ago to about 245 million years ago. So much happened during the Paleozoic that it is divided into seven geologic time periods, shown on the red steps of the Staircase of Time.. 
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons, the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon. The two million year Quaternary period, the time of recognizable humans, is too small to be visible at this scale. Millions of Years. This clock representation shows some of the major units of geological time and definitive events of Earth history. The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on Earth; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga (billion years ago).