Test 2: If the molecule has only one chiral center, then the molecule is chiral. If the molecule has more than one chiral center, it is most likely chiral. The exceptions are meso-compounds, which have chiral centers but are not chiral due to the presence of a place of symmetry. Molecule 3 has a single chiral center (carbon 2). Therefore, this molecule is chiral. (Note that in this depiction, we have not specified if the NH2 group is up or down.
This system labels each chiral center in a molecule (and also has an extension to chiral molecules not involving chiral centers). Thus, it has greater generality than the D/L system, and can label, for example, an (R, R) isomer versus an (R, S) — diastereomers. Pairs of enantiomers are often designated as  right-  and left-handed. Molecular chirality is of interest because of its application to stereochemistry in inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, physical chemistry, biochemistry, and supramolecular chemistry.
This exclusive one-handedness has the important consequence that proteins and DNA are chiral, and that the biological and pharmaceutical activity of many molecules is often directly related to their chirality. Figure: Chirality in the amino-acid alanine. Structures of the two mirror-image forms. More dramatic and crucially important is chirality in many pharmacologically active drug molecules. Examples of well-known chiral drugs are for instance ibuprofen, the anticoagulant warfarin, and several antibiotics (e.g. quinolones and b-lactam), to name but a few.
Conversely, an achiral object, such as an atom, is symmetric; its mirror image is not truly opposite, but rather is indistinguishable from the original. In chemistry, chirality usually refers to molecules. Two mirror images of a chiral molecule are called enantiomers or optical isomers. Pairs of enantiomers are often designated as  right-  and left-handed. Molecular chirality is of interest because of its application to stereochemistry in inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, physical chemistry, biochemistry, and supramolecular chemistry.
The symmetry of a molecule (or any other object) determines whether it is chiral. A molecule is achiral (not chiral) when an improper rotation, that is a combination of a rotation and a reflection in a plane, perpendicular to the axis of rotation, results in the same molecule. For tetrahedral molecules, the molecule is chiral if all four substituents are different. Pairs of enantiomers are often designated as  right-  and left-handed. Molecular chirality is of interest because of its application to stereochemistry in inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, physical chemistry, biochemistry, and supramolecular chemistry.
We call that atom a chiral center, or chirality, center. When two of the groups on a carbon atom are the same, that carbon is not a chiral center. In this molecule, called 2-butanol, carbon two has four different groups: an ethyl group, a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, and a methyl group. Let's compare 2-butanol to butane, where carbon 2 has two hydrogen atoms. At first, it looks like we have a mirror image situation. But look at the third image!
1 Although 2-butanol is a chiral molecule and therefore has two enantiomers, the very similar molecule 2-propanol is achiral and does not exist as an enantiomeric pair. 2  In the illustration, you can see that B slides over onto A with all corresponding groups superimposing perfectly. 3  Many simple molecules are of this kind. 
An achiral object is identical with (superimposable on) its mirror image. Chiral objects have a handedness, for example, golf clubs, scissors, shoes and a corkscrew. Thus, one can buy right or left-handed golf clubs and scissors. Likewise, gloves and shoes come in pairs, a right and a left. Achiral objects do not have a handedness, for example, a baseball bat (no writing or logos on it), a plain round ball, a pencil, a T-shirt and a nail. The chirality of an object is related to its symmetry, and to this end it is useful to recognize certain symmetry elements that may be associated with a given object.
• A chiral molecule contains an asymmetric carbon atom/stereogeniccentre but an achiral molecule does not. • A chiral molecule has a non-superimposable mirror image but an achiral molecule does not. • A chiral molecule and its mirror image are considered as two different molecules called enantiomers, but an achiral molecule and its mirror image is identical. • A chiral molecule has various prefixes added to the chemical name, but achiral molecules do not contain such prefixes. When a molecule is said to be chiral, that molecule and its mirror image are non-superimposable which ideally resembles the case with our left and right hands which cannot be superimposable with their respective mirror images.