Dalits are not allowed to drink from the same wells, attend the same temples, wear shoes in the presence of an upper caste, or drink from the same cups in tea stalls, said Smita Narula, a senior researcher with Human Rights Watch, and author of Broken People: Caste Violence Against India's Untouchables.. Merely walking through an upper-caste neighborhood is a life-threatening offense. Nearly 90 percent of all the poor Indians and 95 percent of all the illiterate Indians are Dalits, according to figures presented at the International Dalit Conference that took place May 16 to 18 in Vancouver, Canada.
COMMENTS. Dindigul, Tamil Nadu: Even after 60 years of Independence, there still exists a side of India that is hard to believe. A Dalit man in Tamil Nadu was forced to eat human excreta because he wore slippers in the presence of upper caste people. They said hereafter no one should come in wearing slippers. Arokiasamy told Anbu to put human excreta into my mouth. 
In as many as 38% of government schools, Dalit children are made to sit separately while eating. In 20 percent schools, Dalits children are not even permitted to drink water from the same source. A shocking 27.6% of Dalits were prevented from entering police stations and 25.7% from entering ration shops. In the name of Untouchability, Dalits face nearly 140 forms of work & descent-based discrimination at the hands of the dominant castes. Here are a few: 1  Prohibited from eating with other caste members. 2  Prohibited from marrying with other caste members. 3  Separate glasses for Dalits in village tea stalls.
Upper caste people throw stones, take away the animal. A Dalit groom had to wear a helmet during his marriage procession at Negrun in the district as upper caste people in the village threw stones at him for riding a horse. They then took away the animal. At least five persons, including an Additional Tahsildar, K.L.
Dalit, meaning oppressed in South Asia, is the self-chosen political name of the castes in SAARC region who were formerly considered untouchable according to the Hindu varna system. While Scheduled Castes (SC) is the legal name for those who were formerly considered untouchable, the term Dalit also encompasses Scheduled Tribes (ST) and other historically disadvantaged communities who were traditionally excluded from the society.
Dalits and similar groups are found throughout South Asia, in India, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. Dalits immigrated to the United States, United Kingdom, Singapore, Malaysia, South Africa, Canada and the Caribbean. While Scheduled Castes (SC) is the legal name for those who were formerly considered untouchable, the term Dalit also encompasses Scheduled Tribes (ST) and other historically disadvantaged communities who were traditionally excluded from the society.
The word “Dalit” comes from the Sanskrit root dal-and means “broken, ground-down, downtrodden, or oppressed.” Those previously known as Untouchables, Depressed Classes, and Harijans are today increasingly adopting the term “Dalit” as a name for themselves. In the name of Untouchability, Dalits face nearly 140 forms of work & descent-based discrimination at the hands of the dominant castes. Here are a few: 1  Prohibited from eating with other caste members. 2  Prohibited from marrying with other caste members. 3  Separate glasses for Dalits in village tea stalls.
33% of public health workers refused to visit Dalit homes, and 23.5% of Dalits still do not get letters delivered in their homes. Segregated seating for Dalits was found in 30.8% of self-help groups and cooperatives, and 29.6% of panchayat offices. In 14.4% of villages, Dalits were not permitted even to enter the panchayat building. In 12% of villages surveyed, Dalits were denied access to polling booths, or forced to form a separate line. In the name of Untouchability, Dalits face nearly 140 forms of work & descent-based discrimination at the hands of the dominant castes. Here are a few: 1  Prohibited from eating with other caste members. 2  Prohibited from marrying with other caste members. 3  Separate glasses for Dalits in village tea stalls.
Image caption Dalits in India still do the most menial jobs. Dalits are at the bottom of the Hindu caste system and despite laws to protect them, they still face widespread discrimination in India, writes Natalia Antelava. As the glass flew across the room and straight into the wall, a dozen or so men stopped drinking their tea. Untouchability helps to lock Dalits, who traditionally do the dirtiest manual jobs, in their occupations. Even if a Dalit scavenger can afford to buy a cow and sell milk or open a shop, for example, upper caste customers are unlikely to buy any of the produce.
An upper class person who is touched by a Dalit or who comes in contact with the shadow of a Dalit must go through elaborate cleansing rituals to undo the “damage” done. Dalits cannot wear shoes in the presence of those in higher castes and still encounter many barriers against practicing religion. Even to this day, untouchables are often chased out of many temples for fear of contamination. In Japan, the Buraku emerged as the lowest caste because of their work. 