Burning Mouth / Burning Tongue Syndrome is a relatively common condition that is characterized by a moderate to severe burning sensation on tongue or other mouth tissues. Patients initially experience a burning, itchy, dry or sticky mouth. In this case the condition is described as Burning Tongue Syndrome. In all cases, however, the mucosa of the mouth clinically appears normal. Other symptoms of Burning Mouth Syndrome include: 1  itchy, dry or sticky mouth. 2  tingling or numbness on the tip of the tongue or in the mouth.
A burning sensation in the mouth can be a symptom of another disease when local or systemic factors are found to be implicated, and this is not considered to be burning mouth syndrome, which is a syndrome of medically unexplained symptoms. If a cause can be identified for a burning sensation in the mouth, then treatment of these underlying factor(s) will be cause related, and the symptom may resolve or persist despite treatment (which confirms a diagnosis of BMS).
Glossodynia: A rare condition where there is a burning sensation in the mouth and tongue. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Glossodynia is available below. 
Other sources refer to a secondary BMS with a similar definition, i.e. a burning sensation which is caused by local or systemic factors, or where oral burning is explained by a clinical abnormality. If a cause can be identified for a burning sensation in the mouth, then treatment of these underlying factor(s) will be cause related, and the symptom may resolve or persist despite treatment (which confirms a diagnosis of BMS).
Burning mouth syndrome (BMS) is a painful, frustrating condition described as a burning or scalding sensation in the tongue, lips, palate, or the entire mouth, usually without clinical and laboratory findings or any detectable reason. Other names for the condition include scalded mouth syndrome and stomatodynia. The most commonly affected part of the mouth is the tongue. When the painful or burning sensation affects only the tongue, the condition is called burning tongue syndrome or glossodynia. In this case the condition is described as Burning Tongue Syndrome. In all cases, however, the mucosa of the mouth clinically appears normal. Other symptoms of Burning Mouth Syndrome include: 1  itchy, dry or sticky mouth. 2  tingling or numbness on the tip of the tongue or in the mouth.
A number of different conditions can result in pain and/or the presence of abnormalities, bumps, ulcers, or sores on the tongue as well as symptoms like pain, swelling, or burning of the tongue. Problems with the tongue can result from infections, tumors, chronic medical conditions, trauma, or toxins. Because soreness or painful lesions on the tongue can have a wide variety of causes, treatment and outlook depend upon the particular condition that is responsible. Depending upon the exact cause, other symptoms and conditions can be associated with a sore tongue, including. 1  dehydration, 2  dry mouth,
Several local and systemic factors can give a burning sensation in the mouth without any clinical signs, and therefore may be misdiagnosed as BMS. Some sources state that where there is an identifiable cause for a burning sensation, this can be termed secondary BMS to distinguish it from primary BMS. If a cause can be identified for a burning sensation in the mouth, then treatment of these underlying factor(s) will be cause related, and the symptom may resolve or persist despite treatment (which confirms a diagnosis of BMS).
Burning Mouth Syndrome (BMS) is a hot feeling or sensation which can affect your tongue, lips, palate, or areas all over your mouth. BMS is sometimes called ‘glossodynia'. You get this feeling when there are changes in the way the nerves in your mouth send messages to your brain-for example, about taste and temperature. When your brain doesn't understand these messages properly it can cause the feeling of pain or burning. 
General Discussion. Burning mouth syndrome (BMS) is characterized by a burning sensation in the mouth and/or tongue. It is often accompanied by dry mouth and/or a bitter or metallic taste in the mouth. It is possible that the main title of the report Burning Mouth Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report