The color Amber is a yellowish-orange color. It got its name from the material known as amber. The amber color is halfway between yellow and orange on the color wheel. The first recorded use of amber as a color name in English was in 1500
'Amber' is a shade of Orange that is 100% saturated and 100% bright. For reference purposes, Amber has the hex value #FFBF00. 
Amber Color The color of amber fossil varies from yellow to dark brown to almost black. Very rarely this gem may be found in green and blue-gray colors and hence green amber can be very rare. In addition, it is dyed in many colors like green, blue, pink etc. 
Amber is fossilized tree resin (not sap), which has been appreciated for its color and natural beauty since Neolithic times. Much valued from antiquity to the present as a gemstone, amber is made into a variety of decorative objects. Amber occurs in a range of different colors. As well as the usual yellow-orange-brown that is associated with the color amber, amber itself can range from a whitish color through a pale lemon yellow, to brown and almost black.
The color amber is a pure chroma color, located on the color wheel midway between the colors of gold and orange. The color name is derived from the material also known as amber, which is commonly found in a range of yellow-orange-brown-red colors; likewise, as a color amber can refer to a range of yellow-orange colors. Sports. 1  In gaelic games Armagh play in a darker Amber color (the amber that is prevalent in the Irish flag), Offaly play in the original colors of the Irish flag (Green, white and Amber) and Kilkenny also play in black and amber, albeit a more yellow amber.
Natural and Rare Baltic Amber Colors. One of the most fascinating aspects of Baltic amber (second to insect, flora, and fauna inclusions) is its wide color spectrum. Most buyers are surprised when they see a display of Baltic amber jewelry from Poland and discover that the gem naturally occurs in 250 colors.
Amber is one of several technically defined colors used in automotive signal lamps. In North America, SAE standard J578 governs the colorimetry of vehicle lights, while outside North America the internationalized European ECE regulations hold force. Sports. 1  In gaelic games Armagh play in a darker Amber color (the amber that is prevalent in the Irish flag), Offaly play in the original colors of the Irish flag (Green, white and Amber) and Kilkenny also play in black and amber, albeit a more yellow amber.
No single color will look as good as amber. Amber is translucid and has many hues. The only way to give the illusion of amber is to mix various yellows and light oranges … on the canvas, add some browns and white for shadows and reflections. What does the color amber look like? Amber is a color between orange and yellow on the color wheel. It is classified as 25% red and 75% yellow, whereas normal orange is 50% of red and yellow both.
Colors Of Amber. The colors of natural, untreated amber and natural Baltic amber when heated. The pictures below show the various colors of amber that are most commonly offered in jewelry. |There are some very rare colors such as red, green and other shades of the rainbow that one occasionally finds. There are many, many color combinations offered that are synthetics and frauds. See counterfeit amber samples.