Ascites is the accumulation of fluid (usually serous fluid which is a pale yellow and clear fluid) in the abdominal (peritoneal) cavity. Ascites Facts. 1  Ascites refers to abnormal accumulation fluid in the abdominal (peritoneal) cavity. 2  The most common cause of ascites is cirrhosis of the liver. 3  Treatment of ascites depends on its underlying cause.
The pathological accumulation of serous fluid in the peritoneal (abdominal) cavity, which common in the decompensated (advanced) liver disease and develops in 50% of those with cirrhosis; patients with cirrhosis who develop ascites have a 50% 2-year survival. Clinical findings. n an abnormal accumulation of serous fluid, containing large amounts of protein and electrolytes, in the peritoneal cavity. Ascites is a complication of cirrhosis, congestive heart failure, nephrosis, malignant neoplastic disease, and various fungal and parasitic diseases.
Ascites is the medical term for fluid accumulation within the abdomen, or more specifically in the peritoneal cavity (intraperitoneal). It is mainly linked to liver disorders (hepatic) such as cirrhosis but can be due to other conditions that do not involve the liver (non-hepatic). Most of the abdominal organs are covered by a double layer sac known as the peritoneum. The visceral peritoneum adheres to the organs while the parietal peritoneum lines the inner wall of the abdomen. Between these two layers is a potential space known as the peritoneal cavity.
Where there is watery (serous) fluid in the chest cavity and/or abdominal cavity and/or diffuse edema, this is due to the accumulation of this fluid in many parts of the body, starting with the chest cavity and progressing to the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissues. This situation is known as diffuse edema. Peritoneal effusion only is also rare in the fetus. Here too, most of the fluid in the abdominal cavity is or will be part of a general condition of edema involving the pleurae and possibly becoming more widespread later. Diffuse edema (ana sacra) is an extreme example of this condition.
ascites. 1. abnormal accumulation of serous (edematous) fluid within the peritoneal cavity. Characterized by distention of the abdomen, a fluid thrill on percussion, a typical ground glass appearance on radiography and a positive result on paracentesis. n an abnormal accumulation of serous fluid, containing large amounts of protein and electrolytes, in the peritoneal cavity. Ascites is a complication of cirrhosis, congestive heart failure, nephrosis, malignant neoplastic disease, and various fungal and parasitic diseases.
Ascites is accumulation of serous fluid in the peritoneal cavity {abdomen}. Its known by several other names: Hydroperitoneum and believe it or not,...Peritoneal Cavity Fluid. The old-time name was Abdominal Dropsy. It can occur due to cancer, liver disease or other conditions. Paracentesis (para = beside + centesis = puncture) is also known as  peritoneocentesis and laparocentesis. The abdominal wall is  punctured and fluid is removed. It is used … to relieve the pressure  of ascites, to diagnose infections or cancer, and to confirm free  blood in the abdominal cavity.
Ascites in Cats. Also known as abdominal effusion, ascites (pronounced ass-eye-tees), is a condition in cats characterised by the accumulation of fluid in the abdominal cavity. 
Ascites (/əˈsaɪtiːz/ ə-SY-teez, from Greek askites, baglike) is a gastroenterological term for an accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity. The medical condition is also known as peritoneal cavity fluid, peritoneal fluid excess, hydroperitoneum or more archaically as abdominal dropsy. 
1 Ascites refers to abnormal accumulation fluid in the abdominal (peritoneal) cavity. 2  The most common cause of ascites is cirrhosis of the liver. 3  Treatment of ascites depends on its underlying cause. Ascites Facts. 1 