Nondeductible traditional IRA contributions are reported on Form 8606, line 1. The amount shown in box 1 of Form 5498 includes all contributions made to a Traditional IRA that were designated as for the previous tax year. Contributions to a Roth IRA are not reported on your tax return. The amount shown in box 10 of Form 5498 reflects all contributions made to a Roth IRA that were designated as for the previous tax year. Contributions to a SEP IRA and SIMPLE IRA are reported on Form 1040, line 28, if you are self-employed.
Contributions. Vanguard reports contributions to all types of IRAs on IRS Form 5498, IRA Contribution Information. For tax year 2014 contributions, we'll mail Form 5498 to you in May 2015, so you have the document for your records.
IRA or Roth IRA-Excess Contributions. If your total IRA contributions (both Traditional and Roth combined) are greater than the allowed amount for the year in your situation, and you have not withdrawn the excess contributions, you must complete Form 5329 to calculate a 6% penalty tax on the excess contribution.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½.
Form 5498: IRA Contributions Information reports your IRA contributions to the IRS. Your IRA trustee or issuer-not you-is required to file this form with the IRS by May 31. When you save for retirement with an individual retirement arrangement, you probably receive a Form 5498 each year.
Fidelity reports any Roth IRA conversion amounts as distributions on Form 1099-R and contributions to the Roth IRA(s) for the tax year on Form 5498.
Form 5498: IRA Contributions Information reports your IRA contributions to the IRS. Your IRA trustee or issuer – not you – is required to file this form with the IRS by May 31. You won't find this form in TurboTax, nor do you file it with your tax return. The copy you receive in the mail is a copy for your records.
Roth IRA contributions are not taxed at the time you contribute the funds to your Roth IRA. However, your contributions come from post-tax income. You pay taxes on your income today, but not in the future.