Basella alba is usually referred to as the  spinach  equivalent of a certain country in English, even though it is not related to the true spinach (Spinacia oleracea). Examples include Malabar spinach, Ceylon spinach, Indian spinach, Surinam spinach, Chinese spinach, or Vietnamese spinach. Description [edit]. Basella alba is a fast-growing, soft-stemmed vine, reaching 10 metres (33 ft) in length. Its thick, semi-succulent, heart-shaped leaves have a mild flavour and mucilaginous texture. The stem of the cultivar Basella alba 'Rubra' is reddish-purple.
Basella alba is native to the Indian Subcontinent, southeast Asia and New Guinea. It is reportedly naturalized in the China, tropical Africa, Brazil, Belize, Colombia, the West Indies, Fiji and French Polynesia. Description [edit]. Basella alba is a fast-growing, soft-stemmed vine, reaching 10 metres (33 ft) in length. Its thick, semi-succulent, heart-shaped leaves have a mild flavour and mucilaginous texture. The stem of the cultivar Basella alba 'Rubra' is reddish-purple.
Alugbati can be used in place of traditional spinach. Alugbati is a common vegetable in the Philippines, and it's also known as malabar spinach, though it isn't spinach at all. The vegetable has heart-shaped leaves that grow along a vivid red stem. A 1-cup serving of alugbati contains 10 calories and 0.34 gram of fat, of which none of it is saturated fat. That low calorie and fat count makes alugbati a healthy addition to your diet, especially if you're trying to lose a few pounds or maintain your current weight.
Bisaya English Translation of. In bisaya english dictionary, alugbati is Ceylon spinach (sc.name: Basella rubra) \Philippine spinach \malabar n. alugbati noun. Ceylon spinach (sc.name: Basella rubra). utanon nga albati noun. Ceylon spinach (sc.name: Basella rubra) \Philippine spinach \malabar nightshade. ag
Scientific name: Basella rubra Linn English: Malabar Night Shade Tagalog: Alugbati. A succulent, branched, smooth, twining herbaceous vine, several meters in length. Stems are purplish or green. Leaves are fleshy, ovate or heart-shaped, 5 to 12 cms long, stalked, tapering to a pointed tip with a cordate base. 
Photo Credit ehaurylik/iStock/Getty Images. Alugbati is also known as basella, Malabar spinach, Indian spinach or vine spinach. It has dark green leaves similar to regular spinach but with green-purple stems. It grows in a vining rather than bush pattern and has a slightly more fibrous texture than regular spinach. Alugbati is a good source of vitamin A, with 764 international units per 1 1/2-cup serving. This is over 100 percent of the recommended intake for women who are not pregnant or lactating, in which case it provides 59 to 99 percent of the recommended dietary allowance.
Alugbati delivers 26 micrograms of vitamin A per 1-cup serving. That translates to 4 percent of the 700 micrograms women should have each day and 3 percent of the 900 micrograms men should have on a daily basis. Vitamin A is crucial for healthy eyesight and also helps keep your bones and teeth strong. A 1-cup serving of alugbati contains 10 calories and 0.34 gram of fat, of which none of it is saturated fat. That low calorie and fat count makes alugbati a healthy addition to your diet, especially if you're trying to lose a few pounds or maintain your current weight.
Alugbati (Basella alba), also called Indian spinach, malabar spinach and vine spinach, is an edible leafy plant popular in the Philippines. It grows best in hot weather, including summertime in Sunset's Climate Zones 3 through 24. 
Scientific name: Basella rubra Linn English: Malabar Night Shade Tagalog: Alugbati A succulent, branched, smooth, twining herbaceous vine, several meters in length. Stems are purplish or green. Leaves are fleshy, ovate or heart-shaped, 5 to 12 cms long, stalked, tapering to a pointed tip with a cordate base. Alugbati, also known as basella rubra linn, vine spinach, Malabar nightshade, Ceylon spinach, arogbati, dundula, grana, ilaibakir, libato and Lo k'uei, is a spinach substitute commonly grown in organic gardens. Alugbati is a good source of vitamins and minerals, helps to reduce inflammation and acts as a laxative.