Pituitary apoplexy or pituitary tumor apoplexy is bleeding into or impaired blood supply of the pituitary gland at the base of the brain. This usually occurs in the presence of a tumor of the pituitary, although in 80% of cases this has not been diagnosed previously. 
Apoplexy may happen when a blood vessel in the brain ruptures or leaks due to the onset of an aneurysm. Apoplexy is also known as a stroke, as it reduces the blood supply that carries oxygen to the brain. A sudden, painful headache is often the first sign of a stroke. View slideshow of images above. Apoplexy can also happen if there is too little blood within the brain. This is an ischemic stroke and results in the death of irreplaceable brain cells. Eighty percent of cases fall within this group. The two most common kinds of ischemic strokes are thrombotic and embolic strokes.
Apoplexy (from Ancient Greek ἀποπληξία, meaning a striking away) is bleeding within internal organs and the accompanying symptoms. The term formerly referred to what is now called a stroke; nowadays, health care professionals typically specify the type of apoplexy, such as cerebral, ovarian and pituitary apoplexy. Informally, apoplexy is associated with being furious, especially as apoplectic.
apoplexy (aˑ·p ·plekˈ·sē) , n reduced circulation in the brain. It occurs when a blood vessel bursts spontaneously or is blocked or by physical injury to the head, arteriosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), atherosclerosis (excess cholesterol in the blood), and high blood pressure. Also called. 
Apoplexy is a condition of sudden unconsciousness when an occlusion or rupture of any blood vessel leads to lack of oxygen supply to the brain. Any such cerebrovascular accident leads to uncontrolled bleeding in the brain causing impulsive unconsciousness. It leads to paralysis of various body parts. Now that we know the answer for what is apoplexy, let us look at the various causes that lead to this condition. The sudden unconsciousness condition of apoplexy occurs due to drastic changes in blood levels of brain. An increase in the levels of blood within brain is due to hemorrhagic stroke.
Apoplexy is uncontrolled bleeding into the brain due to a cerebrovascular accident (CVA), resulting in sudden loss of consciousness and paralysis of various parts of the body. Apoplexy can also happen if there is too little blood within the brain. This is an ischemic stroke and results in the death of irreplaceable brain cells. Eighty percent of cases fall within this group. The two most common kinds of ischemic strokes are thrombotic and embolic strokes.
For example, ovarian apoplexy is bleeding in the ovaries. The term formerly referred to what is now called a stroke; nowadays, health care professionals typically specify the type of apoplexy, such as cerebral, ovarian and pituitary apoplexy. Informally, apoplexy is associated with being furious, especially as apoplectic.
Apoplexy is bleeding within internal organs and the accompanying symptoms. For example, ovarian apoplexy is bleeding in the ovaries. The term formerly referred to what is now called a stroke; nowadays, health care professionals typically specify the type of apoplexy, such as pituitary apoplexy and ovarian apoplexy.
The word apoplexy is defined as a sudden neurologic impairment, usually due to a vascular process. Pituitary apoplexy is characterized by a sudden onset of headache, visual symptoms, altered mental status, and hormonal dysfunction due to acute hemorrhage or infarction of a pituitary gland. An existing pituitary adenoma is usually present
From the late 14th to the late 19th century, apoplexy referred to any sudden death that began with a sudden loss of consciousness, especially one in which the victim died within a matter of seconds after losing consciousness. The term formerly referred to what is now called a stroke; nowadays, health care professionals typically specify the type of apoplexy, such as cerebral, ovarian and pituitary apoplexy. Informally, apoplexy is associated with being furious, especially as apoplectic.