edit Formation and Development of Zygotes. Gamete refers to a haploid sex cell that is a sperm in males and egg (oocyte) in females. Zygote is the diploid cell that results from the fertilization between an egg and a sperm. In mammals, the sperm (male gamete) fertilizes the egg (ovum, the female gamete) and the fertilized egg is called a zygote. The ovum, and therefore the zygote, is much larger than a normal cell.
Let's take it apart: Somatic cell: A somatic cell is any cell in the body other than sperm and egg, the two types of reproductive cells. Reproductive cells are also called germ cells. In mammals, every somatic cell has two complete sets of chromosomes, whereas the germ cells have only one complete set. In SCNT, the egg cell's single set of chromosomes is removed. It is replaced by the nucleus from a somatic cell, which already contains two complete sets of chromosomes. So, in the resulting embryo, both sets of chromosomes come from the somatic cell.
A zygote is a cell formed by two gametes after fertilization.   A zygote is the initial cell formed when two gamete cells are  joined by means of sexual reproduction. In … multicellular organisms,  it is the earliest developmental stage of the embryo. A zygote is the initial cell developed through sexual reproduction and formed when two gametes come together. In other words, a zygote results when the female egg is fertilize … d. After rapid cell division, it eventually becomes an embryo. 20 people found this useful.
A zygote is the resulting single cell that is formed from the  fertilization of a sperm and an ovum. After several divisions, it  implants in the uterus. It keeps dividing, producing more cells and  passes through the stages of embryo and fetus. A zygote is the initial cell developed through sexual reproduction and formed when two gametes come together. In other words, a zygote results when the female egg is fertilize … d. After rapid cell division, it eventually becomes an embryo. 20 people found this useful.
Due to the fusion of the two gametes, a human zygote contains 46 chromosomes (i.e. 23 pairs). However, a large number of species have the chromosomes in their somatic cells arranged in fours ( tetraploid ) or even sixes ( hexaploid ). Thus, they can have diploid or even triploid germline cells. (The gametes of diploid organisms contain only single unpaired chromosomes and are called haploid .) Each pair of chromosomes comprises one chromosome inherited from the father and one inherited from the mother. For example, in humans, somatic cells contain 46 chromosomes organized into 23 pairs.
In fungi, the sexual fusion of haploid cells is called karyogamy. The result of karyogamy is a diploid cell called a zygote or zygospore. This cell may then enter meiosis or mitosis depending on the life cycle of the species. 
A Zygote is the cell formed when two gamete (or sex cells) are joined by sexual reproduction. The zygote develops into the baby. The zygote is only the initial stage of the … development of the offspring. Usually, a zygote if formed by an ovum and sperm. The ovum being the female sex cell and the sperm being the male's. A zygote is the initial cell developed through sexual reproduction and formed when two gametes come together. In other words, a zygote results when the female egg is fertilize … d. After rapid cell division, it eventually becomes an embryo. 20 people found this useful.