Painting the Popcorn Ceiling The paint is most easily applied to the popcorn ceiling with a roller. You can either use a ladder or attach a stick to the roller arm to reach high enough. Begin at the center of the room and work your way to the sides. Make allowances for this absorption of paint and plan to use twice the amount you would use if you were painting an ordinary wall. Step #2. Protecting the Room Before You Start Removing the Popcorn Ceiling Even with the use of paint instead of water, removing a popcorn ceiling is a messy job.
Scrape the Ceiling. Wait 10-15 minutes for the water to soak in and then start scraping it off (Image 1) with a ceiling texture scraper (Image 2). Use a smaller putty knife to scrape the corners and the crown molding. Prepare the Room. Remove furniture and items in the room. Seal off the entire room by hanging two millimeter plastic sheets from the crown molding all the way to the floor (Image 1). Put a window fan in the window for added ventilation. Add a drop cloth with a waterproof backing to the floo
Also, the instructions in this article are for popcorn texture that has not been painted. Painted texture cannot be wetted because it will not absorb water... hence other removal methods are necessary. For example, a professional might use a chemical paint stripper, such as Lemon Peel from FiberLock. For example, popcorn ceilings that are in good condition can usually be painted (spraying is recommended). However, be aware that painting these ceilings may prevent you form safely removing them in the future.
How to Remove Popcorn Texture from a Ceiling that has been Painted Step by Step DIY. Removing the popcorn material off of your ceiling is not a difficult task, but it does require much work and preparation. 4. When the ceiling is finished and all the popcorn material is removed, sand the ceiling smooth and apply a primer coat of paint to seal and make the ceiling uniform. MORE TIPS – Preparation is the vital key and makes the job much easier.
Asbestos-containing ceiling paint: asbestos was used as a filler in popcorn ceiling paint-a nubbled or pebbled surface sprayed onto interior ceilings. This article describes how to recognize, test, and remove, cover, or renovate popcorn style ceiling paints that may contain asbestos. 1 If you must remove textured asbestos ceiling paint, that is, if there were a good reason to remove the paint, you'd probably to do it yourself (which requires specific procedures to protect health and to protect from contaminating the building) or more likely you'd need to use a professional asbestos abatement company.
Continue along the entire surface of the ceiling until the popcorn is gone. If your ceiling texture is painted then scrape off the top of the texture before wetting to expose the underlying surface. Then wet the surface once the painted material is gone. 4. When the ceiling is finished and all the popcorn material is removed, sand the ceiling smooth and apply a primer coat of paint to seal and make the ceiling uniform. MORE TIPS – Preparation is the vital key and makes the job much easier.
Sometimes, it is possible to work around asbestos without removing it. For example, popcorn ceilings that are in good condition can usually be painted (spraying is recommended). However, be aware that painting these ceilings may prevent you form safely removing them in the future.
Removing a popcorn ceiling with paint instead of water will make the project so much easier and simpler. Instead of spraying water until your fingers grow numb, saturate your popcorn ceiling by painting it with a roller soaked in cheap paint. Removing popcorn ceilings is messy, time-consuming and labor-intensive. Make allowances for this absorption of paint and plan to use twice the amount you would use if you were painting an ordinary wall. Step #2. Protecting the Room Before You Start Removing the Popcorn Ceiling Even with the use of paint instead of water, removing a popcorn ceiling is a messy job.
I work for Home Depot. In the paint dept. we have a tool that is made especially for removing popcorn ceilings. You attach a garbage bag to the tool and it collects the ceiling as you scrape it down. It has a scraper on the tool. You can also attach a long handle to the end and saves your arms. Just my two cents worth. I have been removing the popcorn ceilings from my house. Two of the best tools I have found are first, a 4ft scraper, peels the popcorn right off, painted popcorn that is. Second, get a drywall sander that connects to a shop vac.