A test for lactic acid is done to: 1  Check for lactic acidosis. 2  Symptoms of lactic acidosis include rapid breathing, excessive sweating, cool and clammy skin, sweet-smelling breath, belly pain, nausea or vomiting, confusion, and coma. 3  See whether the right amount of oxygen is reaching the body's tissues. Most of it is made by muscle tissue and red blood cells. When the oxygen level in the body is normal, carbohydrate breaks down into water and carbon dioxide. When the oxygen level is low, carbohydrate breaks down for energy and makes lactic acid.
Lactic acidosis: Acidosis (too much acid in the body) due to the buildup of lactic acid in the body. Lactic acidosis occurs when cells make lactic acid (from glucose) faster than it can be metabolized. The key signs of lactic acidosis include unusually deep and rapid breathing, vomiting, and abdominal pain. 
Acidosis occurs when your kidneys and lungs can’t keep your body’s pH in balance. There are two types of acidosis--metabolic and respiratory. Metabolic acidosis occurs when your kidneys can’t get rid of acid buildup or when your body gets rid of too much base. Bases neutralize acids, and vice versa.
An Overview of Metformin and Lactic Acidosis. Lactic acidosis is a life-threatening condition caused by too much lactate in the blood and low blood pH. Low blood pH means that your blood contains too much acid, which can be harmful to the cells of your body. 
1 Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 2  Many things can cause a buildup of lactic acid. 3  These include chronic alcohol use, heart failure, cancer, seizures, liver failure, prolonged lack of oxygen, and low blood sugar. There are two types of acidosis--metabolic and respiratory. Metabolic acidosis occurs when your kidneys can’t get rid of acid buildup or when your body gets rid of too much base. Bases neutralize acids, and vice versa.
Lactic acidosis is a physiological condition characterized by low pH in body tissues and blood (acidosis) accompanied by the buildup of lactate, especially L-lactate, and is considered a distinct form of metabolic acidosis. Lactic acidosis is commonly found in people who are unwell for one of various reasons, such as severe heart and/or lung disease, a severe infection with sepsis, the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) due to another cause, severe physical trauma, or severe depletion of body fluids.
Lactic acidosis is a type of acidosis that occurs when the blood becomes too acidic due to the presence of excess lactic acid in the body. Blood pH is tightly controlled because even slight changes in your pH can have severe effects on many organs. Normally, your blood is slightly basic, or alkaline. Acidosis occurs when the blood becomes more acidic than normal. Lactic acid is created when structures in the cells called mitochondria respond to high-energy demands in cases of relatively low oxygen levels.
1 Both diarrhea and vomiting can cause this type of acidosis. 2  Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 3  Many things can cause a buildup of lactic acid. 4  These include chronic alcohol use, heart failure, cancer, seizures, liver failure, prolonged lack of oxygen, and low blood sugar. There are two types of acidosis--metabolic and respiratory. Metabolic acidosis occurs when your kidneys can’t get rid of acid buildup or when your body gets rid of too much base. Bases neutralize acids, and vice versa.
A lactic acid test is a blood test that measures the level of lactic acid made in the body. Most of it is made by muscle tissue and red blood cells. When the oxygen level in the body is normal, carbohydrate breaks down into water and carbon dioxide. When the oxygen level is low, carbohydrate breaks down for energy and makes lactic acid. Lactic acid levels get higher when strenuous exercise or other conditions-such as heart failure, a severe infection (sepsis), or shock-lower the flow of blood and oxygen throughout