Criselda is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3042 out of 4276, Top 71%) but an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Criselda for girls. Criselda's name origin is Greek, and Criselda means bearing Christ. Criselda is a variant transcription of Chriselda (Greek): elaboration of Chris.
3: vote up - 0: vote down. IT MEANS A WOMEN WARRIOR SOMEONE THAT CAN ACOMPLISH ANYHING A REALLY NOBLE PERSON, BUT IF U HERT HER SHE WILL FIGHT BACK. Thats my name and im cute and very nice smile
Griselda is a very popular first name for women (#1066 out of 4276, Top 25%) but a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Griselda for girls. Also possibly  gray fighting maid or the name may derive from the German word gries, meaning gravel or  stone . Italian author Giovanni Boccaccio's use of the name in a tale about an exceptionally patient wife has made the expression patience of Griselda proverbial. The short form Zelda is much more popular.
Griselda is a feminine given name from Germanic sources that is now used in English, Italian, and Spanish as well. According to the 1990 United States Census, the name was 1066th in popularity among females in the United States. 
German Meaning: The name Griselda is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Griselda is: From the Old German, meaning 'grey battle' or 'Christian battle'. American Meaning: The name Griselda is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Griselda is: From the Old German, meaning 'grey battle' or 'Christian battle'. Latin Meaning: The name Griselda is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Griselda is: Gray; gray-haired
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Griselda in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Griselda in Nautical Flags page. View the Griselda Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Griselda has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Griselda to other names. Variants of the name Griselda include Grisella. The name Grizel is a form of Griselda. Griselda has the diminutive (nickname) Zelda.
Griselda is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Gri-sel-da. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3039 in baby name popularity for girls with 55 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Griselda Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Griselda has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Griselda to other names. Variants of the name Griselda include Grisella. The name Grizel is a form of Griselda. Griselda has the diminutive (nickname) Zelda.
Criselda /cri-sel-da/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Criselda's name origin is Greek, and Criselda means bearing Christ. Criselda is a variant transcription of Chriselda (Greek): elaboration of Chris. Compare surname Crisel
Griselda /gri-sel-da/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced gri-ZELL-dah. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Griselda is  dark battle . Also possibly  gray fighting maid or the name may derive from the German word gries, meaning gravel or  stone . Italian author Giovanni Boccaccio's use of the name in a tale about an exceptionally patient wife has made the expression patience of Griselda proverbial. The short form Zelda is much more popular.
Meaning: The German name Griselda means - gray warrior maid.. 