A mortise lock (mortice lock in British English) is a lock that requires a pocket—the mortise—to be cut into the door or piece of furniture into which the lock is to be fitted. They are widely used in domestic properties of all ages in Europe. The purpose of a mortise lock is to act as a combination of locks. It is dual-action, meaning that it acts as a door knob and a deadbolt.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mortise (Noun). A hole that is made to receive a tenon so as to form a joint. mortise (Verb). To make a mortise. Origin: First attested circa fourteenth century, from mortaise, of uncertain origin. 
2. used as a noun. If two things or people are totally different from each other in some way, you can say that one is the opposite of the other. The opposite of right is wrong. He was the exact opposite of Ariel, of course. You can use the opposite without 'of', if it is clear what you are making a contrast with. Be Careful! You cannot express difference by saying that one thing or person is 'opposite' another. 3. used as an adjective. Opposite can be an adjective either in front of a noun or after a noun, but with different meanings. You use opposite in front of a noun when you are mentioning one of two sides of something. I was moved to a room on the opposite side of the corridor
opposite (a.). Applied to the other of two things which are entirely different; other; as, the opposite sex; the opposite extreme; antonyms have opposite meanings. Opposite (n.). That which is opposed or contrary in character or meaning; as, sweetness and its opposite; up is the opposite of down. 
• OPPOSITE (noun). The noun OPPOSITE has 4 senses: 1. a word that expresses a meaning opposed to the meaning of another word, in which case the two words are antonyms of each other. 2. a relation of direct opposition. 3. a contestant that you are matched against. 4. something inverted in sequence or character or effect.
Save. The ankle joint is made up of two joints: the true ankle joint, which moves the foot up and down, and the subtalar joint, which moves the foot from side to side. The ankle mortise is the hinge that connects the ends of the tibia and fibula to the talus. The true ankle joint is made up of the tibia, which is on the inside, the fibula on the outside and the talus, which is the underneath part of the joint. The subtalar joint consists of the talus on the top and the calcaneus on the bottom.
mor•tise. 1. a notch, hole, or slot made in a piece of wood or the like to receive a tenon of the same dimensions. 2. a deep recess cut into wood for other purposes, as for receiving a mortise lock. 3. to join securely, esp. with a mortise and tenon. 4. to cut or form a mortise in. n. 1. (Building) a slot or recess, usually rectangular, cut into a piece of wood, stone, etc, to receive a matching projection (tenon) of another piece, or a mortise lock. 2. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) printing a cavity cut into a letterpress printing plate into which type or another plate is inserted.
1. mortise-a square hole made to receive a tenon and so to form a joint. mortice. hole-an opening deliberately made in or through something. mortise-and-tenon joint, mortise joint-a joint made by inserting tenon on one piece into mortise holes in the other. n. 1. (Building) a slot or recess, usually rectangular, cut into a piece of wood, stone, etc, to receive a matching projection (tenon) of another piece, or a mortise lock. 2. (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) printing a cavity cut into a letterpress printing plate into which type or another plate is inserted.
The tenon, formed on the end of a member generally referred to as a rail, is inserted into a square or rectangular hole cut into the corresponding member. The tenon is cut to fit the mortise hole exactly and usually has shoulders that seat when the joint fully enters the mortise hole. a kind of mortise and tenon joint that uses a wedge-shaped key to hold the joint together. Teasel (or teazle) tenon. a term used for the tenon on top of a jowled or gunstock post, which is typically received by the mortise in the underside of a tie beam.