Basic Description. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System. Summary of Food Sources. Probably the first food that comes to mind when thinking about potassium is the banana. This is not wrong—by our Rating System, bananas are a good source of potassium. But there are 32 foods on our Rating Chart with more potassium per calorie than the banana. Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Some legumes, fish, and dairy products can also make important contributions to our daily potassium intake; yet, because these foods have more calories, they are not as highly rated by our Nutrient Richness
Some of the best sources of potassium are dark leafy greens such as spinach, which when cooked has more than 800 mg of potassium per cup; bok choy, which contains around 600 mg per cup when boiled, and Swiss chard, which has almost 1,000 mg per cooked cup. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.
Eating more potassium is essential not only for heart health, but for the skeletal and muscle systems as well. The Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) is 4,700 milligrams for both men and women. However, bananas don't even make the top 10 list of superfoods with the most potassium! This root vegetable is the top source of potassium. One potato has 694 milligrams of potassium — about 15% of the daily recommended amount — and just 131 calories.
All of the following foods have potassium values per 1 cup serving greater than 400 milligrams, and many approach 700 milligrams. Root vegetables including potatoes, beets, parsnips, turnips, and rutabagas are the highest in potassium, and are delicious in roasts: a single baked potato with skin has 700 milligrams. Your blood or serum potassium level never gets low. Blood does the best it can to provide potassium to vital systems such as the heart and brain. To do this during the day, the blood borrows slowly but surely, as needed, from blood vessel walls (high blood pressure) and bone.
Squash is a good source of potassium. Beans are a good source of potassium. Avocado is high in potassium. Kiwis are packed with potassium, an essential mineral that helps the body maintain proper levels of hydration and electrolytes. Yogurt is high in calcium and potassium. Your blood or serum potassium level never gets low. Blood does the best it can to provide potassium to vital systems such as the heart and brain. To do this during the day, the blood borrows slowly but surely, as needed, from blood vessel walls (high blood pressure) and bone.
Bananas and avocados are, ounce for ounce, the richest sources of potassium. One banana contains about 467 milligrams (mg) of potassium, and both Florida and California avocados contain over 1,000 mg of potassium. Although avocados are highly caloric because of their high fat content, they are rich in monounsaturated fats, the kind of fat that's good for you. Potassium-rich foods include dark green leafy vegetables, fruits from vines, and root vegetables. Here are a few examples: 1  Potatoes. 2  Winter squash. 3  Prunes. 4  Cantaloupe. 5  Oranges. 6  Apricots.
Aside from energy and potassium, bananas are also a good source of fiber and vitamins B6 and C. For other high-potassium fresh fruits, enjoy cantaloupe, kiwi, oranges, and strawberries. 1  Getty Images Avocado If avocado isn’t a staple in your house yet, you should probably start adding it to your grocery list. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.
Bananas. If you’ve heard about any potassium-rich foods, you probably know that bananas are a good source, containing more than 400 mg of potassium each. Bananas make a healthy high-energy snack – more beneficial to athletes than sports drinks, according to at least one study. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.