Lymph in the lymph vessels eventually reaches a lymph node -- there are about 100 nodes scattered throughout the body. Lymph nodes filter the lymph and also contain large numbers of white blood cells (a big part of the immune system), which remove foreign cells and debris from the lymph. 
Your lymph nodes are small, round, or bean-shaped masses of tissue found throughout your body. They are part of your immune system -- more specifically the lymphatic system -- that helps your body fight infection and disease. 
Lymph nodes are small clumps of immune cells that act as filters for the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system runs throughout the body (like the circulatory (blood) system) and carries fluid and cells. The lymph nodes in the underarm (the axillary lymph nodes) are the first place breast cancer is likely to spread. Figure 4.4 shows the location of the axillary lymph nodes.
Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands throughout the body. They are part of the lymph system, which carries fluid (lymph fluid), nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream. The lymph system is an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease. The lymph nodes filter lymph fluid as it flows through them, trapping bacteria, viruses, and other foreign substances, which are then destroyed by special white blood cells called lymphocytes.
Lymph nodes and what they do. Lymph vessels route lymph fluid through nodes throughout the body. Lymph nodes are small structures that work as filters for harmful substances. They contain immune cells that can help fight infection by attacking and destroying germs that are carried in through the lymph fluid. This fluid may filter through lymph nodes at the elbow, or those under the arm. Fluid from the head, scalp, and face flows down through lymph nodes in the neck. Some lymph nodes are deep inside the body, such as between the lungs or around the bowel, to filter fluid in those areas.
Lymph nodes are found all through the body, and act as filters or traps for foreign particles. They contain white blood cells that use oxygen to process and they are important in the proper functioning of the immune system. Germs, can set up infections anywhere in the body. 
Lymph is clear or white fluid that travels through vessels, moves within tissues and work to keep all the parts of the body clean. After passing through the channels of the lymphatic system they drain into the lymph nodes. The lymph nodes act as filters along the lymphatic system. These nodes trap germs like bacteria, viruses, toxins as well as cancer cells and ensure that these are removed from the body. The lymph is a clear or whitish fluid that flows through the lymph channels. It flows through the tiniest of the blood vessels and lymph channels called capillaries and bathe the cells in the tissues of the body.
Answer: Lymph nodes are filtering stations along the chain of lymph drainage fluid. Lymph drainage fluid drains the excess fluid from all parts of our body; the best example people are aware of of lymph nodes is when they get a strep throat and get swollen glands in their neck. Those glands are really lymph nodes responding to the infection in the throat. And the cancers can grow in those lymph nodes and then continue to spread beyond. Spread to a lymph node is a factor which affects the long term outcome of cancer, by denoting that this cancer has the ability to be able to get into a vessel, to be able to spread, and to be able to grow in a site outside the breast.
Lymph nodes are bean or oval shaped and range in size from a few millimeters to about 1–2 cm long. Each lymph node is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, and inside the lymph node the fibrous capsule extends to form trabeculae. The substance of the lymph node is divided into the outer cortex and the inner medulla. 