The second major line of development within activity theory involves Russian scientists, such as P. K. Anokhin and N. A. Bernshtein, more directly concerned with the neurophysiological basis of activity; its foundation is associated with the Soviet philosopher of psychology S. L. Rubinshtein. Activity theory is most often used to describe actions in a socio-technical system through six related elements (Bryant et al. as defined by Leonti'ev 1981 and redefined in Engestroem engeström) 1987 of a conceptual system expanded by more nuanced: 1  Theories-object-orientedness the objective of the activity.  system
By Ashley Crossman. Definition: Disengagement theory states that in every society, the elderly undergo a process of adjustment in which they leave important public roles and narrow their social world to family and friends. 
Summary: Activity Theory is a framework or descriptive tool for a system. People are socio-culturally embedded actors (not processors or system components). There exists a hierarchical analysis of motivated human action (levels of activity analysis). 
Kuutti formulates activity theory in terms of the structure of an activity. An activity is a form of doing directed to an object, and activities are distinguished from each other according to their objects. Transforming the object into an outcome motivates the existence of an activity. Activity theory is most often used to describe actions in a socio-technical system through six related elements (Bryant et al. as defined by Leonti'ev 1981 and redefined in Engestroem engeström) 1987 of a conceptual system expanded by more nuanced: 1  Theories-object-orientedness the objective of the activity.  system
Full Definition of PLATE TECTONICS. 1. : a theory in geology: the lithosphere of the earth is divided into a small number of plates which float on and travel independently over the mantle and much of the earth's seismic activity occurs at the boundaries of these plates. 2
Activity theory begins with the notion of activity. An activity is seen as a system of human doing whereby a subject works on an object in order to obtain a desired outcome. Activity theory is most often used to describe actions in a socio-technical system through six related elements (Bryant et al. as defined by Leonti'ev 1981 and redefined in Engestroem engeström) 1987 of a conceptual system expanded by more nuanced: 1  Theories-object-orientedness the objective of the activity.  system
“Routine Activity Theory” provides a simple and powerful insight into the causes of crime problems. At its heart is the idea that in the absence of effective controls, offenders will prey upon attractive targets. To have a crime, a motivated offender must come to the same place as an attractive target. 
The activity theory states that optimal aging occurs when individuals participate in activities, pursuits, and relationships. The activity theory and the disengagement theory were the two major theories that outlined successful aging in the early 1960s. The theory was developed by Robert J. Havighurst in 1961.
Activity theory is more of a descriptive meta-theory or framework than a predictive theory. It considers an entire work/activity system (including teams, organizations, etc.) beyond just one actor or user. Activity theory is most often used to describe actions in a socio-technical system through six related elements (Bryant et al. as defined by Leonti'ev 1981 and redefined in Engestroem engeström) 1987 of a conceptual system expanded by more nuanced: 1  Theories-object-orientedness the objective of the activity.  system