Titanium is a component of joint replacement parts, including hip ball and sockets. These may last for 20 years or so. Titanium is used in dental implants because it is able to osseointegrate (an unusual ability by which titanium fuses with bone tissue, perhaps through the titanium oxide layer on tianium metal).
Uses. Titanium is important as an alloying agent with aluminum, molybdenum, manganese, iron, and other metals. Alloys of titanium are principally used for aircraft and missiles where lightweight strength and ability to withstand extremes of temperature are important. Titanium is as strong as steel, but 45% lighter.
Uses of Titanium. Titanium metal is used as an alloying agent with metals including aluminum, iron, molybdenum and manganese. Alloys of titanium are mainly used in aerospace, aircraft and engines where strong, lightweight, temperature-resistant materials are needed. As a result of its resistance to seawater, (see above) titanium is used for hulls of ships, propeller shafts and other structures exposed to the sea. Titanium is also used in joint replacement implants, such as the ball-and-socket hip joint. About 95% of titanium production is in the forum of titanium dioxide (titania).
steel alloys compound body. By far the most important use of titanium is in making alloys. It is the element most commonly added to steel because it increases the strength and resistance to corrosion of steel. Titanium provides another desirable property to alloys: lightness.
Titanium metal is used for alloys with with aluminium, molybdenum, manganese, iron, and other metals. These alloys of titanium are used principally in the aerospace industry, for both airframes and engines, where lightweight strength and ability to withstand extremes of temperature are important.
Uses. Titanium is important as an alloying agent with aluminum, molybdenum, manganese, iron, and other metals. Alloys of titanium are principally used for aircraft and missiles where lightweight strength and ability to withstand extremes of temperature are important. Titanium is as strong as steel, but 45% lighter.