In the posterior two-thirds of the bone the canal is situated nearer the internal surface of the mandible; and in the anterior third, nearer its external surface. It contains the inferior alveolar vessels and nerve, from which branches are distributed to the teeth. Surfaces [edit]. The lateral surface is flat and marked by oblique ridges at its lower part; it gives attachment throughout nearly the whole of its extent to the masseter.
It forms the lower jaw and holds the lower teeth in place. In the midline on the anterior surface of the mandible is a faint ridge, an indication of the mandibular symphysis, where the bone is formed by the fusion of right and left processes during mandibular development. The mandible (from Latin mandibula, jawbone) or inferior maxillary bone is the largest, strongest and lowest bone in the face.
The primary bones of the face are the mandible, maxilla, frontal bone, nasal bones, and zygoma. Facial bone anatomy is complex, yet elegant, in its suitability to serve a multitude of functions. The mandible is a U-shaped bone. It is the only mobile bone of the facial skeleton, and, since it houses the lower teeth, its motion is essential for mastication. It is formed by intramembranous ossification. The mandible is composed of 2 hemimandibles joined at the midline by a vertical symphysis.
The mandibular ramus is a portion of the mandible, or jawbone. As the bone that stretches from the underside of either ear and gives rise to the bottom teeth, the mandible consists of the body, which is the horizontal portion crossing the chin, and the ramus, the vertical section beneath each ear. The mandible is the lower part of the jaw, which moves like a hinge thanks to a network of muscles. The mandibular ramus serves as the bridge attaching the jaw to the temporal bone of the skull via the temporomandibular (TMJ) joint. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow.
Mandible. The mandible is the only bone in the entire cranium that doesn’t articulate with its adjacent skull bones via sutures. When the skull is observed purely as a bony structure, there is nothing anatomically holding the rest of the skull and the mandible together. This bone is also known as the lower jaw and it articulates dentally with the upper jaw or the maxilla in the viscerocranium via the teeth when the mouth is closed. The ramus is the second largest part of the mandible after the body and it extends cranially from the angle of the mandible, away from the body at an angle of 110 degrees.
Mandible. The mandible, or lower jaw, is the bone that forms the lower part of the skull, and along with the maxilla (upper jaw), forms the mouth structure. Movement of the lower jaw opens and closes the mouth and also allows for the chewing of food. The lower set of teeth in the mouth is rooted in the lower jaw
The mandibular ramus serves as the bridge attaching the jaw to the temporal bone of the skull via the temporomandibular (TMJ) joint, the joint that opens and closes the mouth. It also is where the masseter muscle attaches, the large muscle used for mastication, or chewing. The mandible is the lower part of the jaw, which moves like a hinge thanks to a network of muscles. The mandibular ramus serves as the bridge attaching the jaw to the temporal bone of the skull via the temporomandibular (TMJ) joint. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow.
The condylar cartilage is an important growth site in the mandible, contributing to the elongation of the mandibular ramus. The round upper end of the lower jaw, or the movable portion of the joint, is considered secondary cartilage (condylar cartilage). 