DEFINITION of 'Commercial'. Relating to commerce. In the investment field, the term commercial is generally used to refer to a trading entity engaged in business activities that are hedged by positions in the futures or options markets. A commercial plays an active role in the futures and forward markets, ranging from the initial production to the final sales. While the term is also widely used in other areas of finance and everyday life, it generally denotes an activity that pertains to business or one that has a profit motive.
Economic Term. wave off. wave off. v. wave hand as a sign of rejection, disapproval or lack of interest. payday loan. payday loan. n. A small short-term loan, with very high interest rates, that the borrower promises to repay on or near the next payday. euro-commercial paper. n commercial paper issued in a eurocurrency. English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: commercial art, commercial bank, commercial break, commercial college.
1 501-C Non-profit organizations (Note, ACCME screens 501c organizations for eligibility. 2  Those that advocate for commercial interests as a 501c organization are not eligible for accreditation in the ACCME system. Within the context of this definition and limitation, the ACCME considers the following types of organizations to be eligible for accreditation and free to control the content of CME: 1  501-C Non-profit organizations (Note, ACCME screens 501c organizations for eligibility.
Definition of a Commercial Interest A commercial interest is any entity producing, marketing, re-selling, or distributing health care goods or services consumed by, or used on, patients. 
The ACCME does not consider providers of clinical service directly to patients to be commercial interests-unless the provider of clinical service is owned, or controlled by, an ACCME-defined commercial interest. Within the context of this definition and limitation, the ACCME considers the following types of organizations to be eligible for accreditation and free to control the content of CME: 1  501-C Non-profit organizations (Note, ACCME screens 501c organizations for eligibility.
Click here for more information. Source URL: http://www.accme.org/requirements/accreditation-requirements-cme-providers/policies-and-definitions/definition-commercial-interest Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) Page 1 of 1http://www.accme.org/node/5271. http://www.accme.org/node/5271. http://www.accme.org/node/15256. http://www.accme.org/node/5271. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The interest of the company (sometimes company benefit or commercial benefit) is a concept that the board of directors in corporations are in most legal systems required to use their powers for the commercial benefit of the company and its members. 
DEFINITION of 'Commercial Loan'. A debt-based funding arrangement that a business can set up with a financial institution. The proceeds of commercial loans may be used to fund large capital expenditures and/or operations that a business may otherwise be unable to afford. Next Up.
Definition of a Commercial Interest. Printer-friendly version PDF version. A commercial interest is any entity producing, marketing, re-selling, or distributing health care goods or services consumed by, or used on, patients. Within the context of this definition and limitation, the ACCME considers the following types of organizations to be eligible for accreditation and free to control the content of CME: 1  501-C Non-profit organizations (Note, ACCME screens 501c organizations for eligibility.