KAIROS MISSION STATEMENT: The mission of Kairos Prison Ministry International, Inc. is to bring Christ’s love and forgiveness to all incarcerated individuals, their families, and those who work with them, and to assist in the transition to becoming a productive citizen. There are two Greek words for time. One of them, with which we are all familiar, is ‘kronos’ meaning linear time hours, day’s weeks etc. The other is ‘kairos’, used in the sense of time set by God for a particular occurrence.
Updated and approved Kairos Board of Directors April, 2015. Kairos Prison Ministry International, Inc. Policy Statement on Interdenominational Christian Ministry All Kairos Volunteers should know and agree with the Kairos Mission, Vision, Core Values and Statement of Faith. In Kairos, we are Christians who believe in the Holy Trinity and honor and live the teaching of the Bible and our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Kairos is a ministry of persons drawn from a broad range of Christian Churches.
Kairos and Kairos Outside. Kairos is an interdenominational ministry devoted to bringing God's grace and love to incarcerated men, women and youth, and to establish ongoing Christian Communities within correctional facilities.
Kairos is an ecumenical Christian ministry designed for use in state and federal men's and women's correctional institutions in the United States and throughout the world. The International Board of Kairos Prison Ministry, Inc., with headquarters in Winter Park, Florida, governs this ministry. Kairos is conducted in cooperation with the chaplains and wardens of correctional institutions, by teams of laity and clergy who are qualified by their experiences in Christian renewal programs. 
Kairos is interdenominational, with members from all Christian churches (including Assembly of God, Baptist, Catholic, Church of Christ, Disciples of Christ, Episcopalian, Lutheran, Methodist, Pentecostal, and Presbyterian churches) all focusing on common Christian-beliefs for the purpose of Christianizing prisons. History. Kairos is a prison ministry named after a Greek word in the new Testament which means a favorable or decisive point in time.. We refer to it as God's special time..
KAlROS PRISON MINISTRY INTERNATIONAL, INC. is the parent organisation of a body of ministries addressing the spiritual needs of incarcerated men, women and children, to their families and to those who work in the prison environment. It is active in the USA, Australia, Canada and South Africa. There are two Greek words for time. One of them, with which we are all familiar, is ‘kronos’ meaning linear time hours, day’s weeks etc. The other is ‘kairos’, used in the sense of time set by God for a particular occurrence.
Kairos of Alabama operates as a State Chapter and serves in prisons and jails through a contractual agreement with the Warden and Chaplain of each correctional facility. At present, we are in 13 facilities across the State of Alabama. 
Kairos. Kairos is the interdenominational ministry introduced in Louisiana in 1993 at Angola, which now operates in twenty-seven states plus Australia, Canada, England, and the Republic of South Africa. Kairos Outside, which is for female family members of incarcerated men and women, was introduced in the fall of 1999. In 2000 the ministry was extended into Oakdale, a federal prison southwest of Alexandria, and the first Kairos Discipleship Weekends in South Louisiana.
Kairos Prison Ministry Australia is an interdenominational Christian ministry reaching out to incarcerated individuals, their families and those who work with them; to bring sustainable meaning and hope in the place of loneliness, isolation and despair. About Kairoslearn more. What We Do...learn more. 