You also spelled especially wrong. If your name meaning starts out w … ith goddess of... as the name meaning, then it was either derived from the name of a mythological goddess or is the same name as the goddess in a given mythology.or example, if your name is Athena, your name meaning may start out saying that she was goddess of wisdom or goddess of war, which are two of her roles in Greek mythology. The first person who wrote that is really rude. The name rose means Goddess of love. 7 people found this useful.
Read Areeb Meaning in Urdu and English. Areeb is a boys name which start from the alphabetical word of “Alif” in Urdu. Muslim Children who born in the month of March or April from 20th of March to 21st of April, can be named as Areeb. The babies belong to Aries star which is known as “Hamal” in Urdu language.
My name is Areeb Ahmad and i am very happy from my name. My father keeps my name. Do not recommend. 'Arriba' means 'up' in spanish. Be prepared, if a spanish speaker ever comes across the name or you're sitting in spanish class you will get laughed at. If you're in a muslim country, its ok but if you're in the states I'd strongly recommend reconsidering.
Muslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database.
Name Areeb generally means Skillful or Adroit, is of Indian origin, Name Areeb is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Person with name Areeb are mainly Muslim by religion.. Find Rashi, Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Areeb or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday.
You have searched for Areeb meaning in urdu or اریب meaning in english in muslim baby name databasae, remember names selection is very important in the life of every muslim family with new born babies, so choose the best names according to meaning, history and characteristics associated with each name.uslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database.
For example, if your name is Athena, your name meaning may start out saying that she was goddess of wisdom or goddess of war, which are two of her roles in Greek mythology. The first person who wrote that is really rude. The name rose means Goddess of love.7 people found this useful.
The name was first given to 5 or more babies in the year 1993 when it was given to 6 new born babies. The highest recorded use of the name Areeb was in 2005 with a total of 28 babies. According to the 2008 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Areeb is not a popular baby boy's name in California. Imagine that, only 5 babies in California have the same name as you in 2008. Across the entire United States a total of only 23 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Can anybody help me how to pronounce name  Areeb  Planning to give this name to my new born boy. oh, really i am thankfull to my parents whom they named my name Areeb Ahmad Khan. my name is areeb im proud of my name. i m lucky ke mera nam areeb hai. My wife name is areeb and shes just perfect alhamdullilah. 1  1. 2  2.o not recommend. 'Arriba' means 'up' in spanish. Be prepared, if a spanish speaker ever comes across the name or you're sitting in spanish class you will get laughed at. If you're in a muslim country, its ok but if you're in the states I'd strongly recommend reconsidering.
Parents living in foreign locations like USA, UK, Canada, India, and Saudi Arabia can find the relevant details about names from this website. Find Areeb meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Areeb name reviews, Origin, gender, rating and many more about Areeb.o not recommend. 'Arriba' means 'up' in spanish. Be prepared, if a spanish speaker ever comes across the name or you're sitting in spanish class you will get laughed at. If you're in a muslim country, its ok but if you're in the states I'd strongly recommend reconsidering.