As a general rule, seeds will germinate indoors where the soil temperature is held constant. In nature, the soil temperature is usually lower at night. Therefore, an indoor drop in temperature at night of less than 10ºF will not significantly delay seedling emergence. Sowing Seeds Indoors. The average gardener finds the optimal germination temperature for any seed printed on the seed packet or in the seed catalog. Sometimes, the instructions offer only a month to sow outdoors, or the number of weeks before last frost to sow indoors.
For each type of seed — beans, carrots, lettuce — there is a range of temperatures at which that particular type of seed will germinate (see the chart at right). Beans, for example, will only germinate if the soil temperature is above 60 degrees F and no warmer than 95 degrees F. There is also an optimum temperature at which seeds germinate most readily. In the case of beans, that optimum germination temperature is 80 degrees F. In a perfect world, you would wait for the soil in your garden to be 80 degrees F before planting your beans. At that temperature, you could expect nearly every seed to germinate. This is a soil temperature at which gardeners can expect good germination and strong early growth. Germination rates may be at 70 percent rather than 100 percent, but you can just sow the seeds a little more thickly.
The exact temperature needed to kill a seed depends on the species of plant it came from, but in most cases heating seeds to 140 degrees Fahrenheit is sufficient to sterilize them. The most effective way to ensure that you kill all of the seeds is to heat them to a temperature above 140 degrees Fahrenheit. Seeds mixed into compost or topsoil require higher temperatures and longer exposure times than bare, unprotected seeds.
Though some seeds germinate best at a soil temperature of 60 degrees F, and some at 85 degrees, most prefer a temperature of about 78 degrees. If the soil is too cold, seeds may take much longer to germinate, or they may not germinate at all. After germination, most seedlings grow best if the air temperature is below 70 degrees F. If temperatures are too warm (over 75), the seedlings will grow too fast and get weak and leggy. Most seedlings grow fine in air temperatures as low as 50 degrees, as long as soil temperature is maintained at about 65 to 70.
Temperature is key when it comes to getting seeds to germinate. Pepper seeds require the right combination of heat and dampness to get the growing process started. Cold temperatures slow germination and, when too cold, will prevent germination from happening at all. Germination Temperature for Peppers. Pepper seeds require a temperature range between 65 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit. The optimum temperature for germination is 85 degrees Fahrenheit. At the optimum temperature, pepper seeds germinate and sprout within eight days. The best way to control soil temperature when planting pepper seeds is to use a seed starting flat and a heating pad
1 Temperature influence on growth – Seeds of cool season crops germinate at 40°F to 80°F. Warm season crop seeds germinate at 50°F to 90°F. 2  In the spring, cool soil temperatures are a limiting factor for plant growth. 3  In mid-summer, hot soil temperatures may prohibit seed germination. 
That is the fundamental relationship between germination and temperature. For every species of seed, there is an optimal soil temperature for germination, and at that temperature, the maximum number of seeds will germinate and in less time than at any other temperature. Sowing Seeds Indoors. The average gardener finds the optimal germination temperature for any seed printed on the seed packet or in the seed catalog. Sometimes, the instructions offer only a month to sow outdoors, or the number of weeks before last frost to sow indoors.
SEED GERMINATION. A seed contains an embryonic plant in a resting condition, and germination is its resumption of growth. Seeds will begin to germinate when the soil temperature is in the appropriate range and when water and oxygen are available. However, most of your wildflower seeds will only germinate between specific soil temperatures. 