The drainage basin includes both the streams and rivers that convey the water as well as the land surfaces from which water drains into those channels, and is separated from adjacent basins by a drainage divide. Each drainage basin is separated topographically from adjacent basins by a perimeter, the drainage divide making up a succession of higher geographical features (such as a ridge, hill or mountains) forming a barrier.
read more. There are multiple artists with this name: 1. Watershed is a South African band featuring lead singer Craig W. Hinds, who also plays piano and acoustic guitar, alongside Nic Rush (guitar), James Sunney (bass guitar), Peter Auret (drums), and Hylton Brooker (keyboards). 
A watershed is an area of land that drains all the streams and rainfall to a common outlet such as the outflow of a reservoir, mouth of a bay, or any point along a stream channel. 1 However, not all precipitation that falls in a watershed flows out, and a stream will often continue to flow where there is no direct runoff from recent precipitation. 2  Infiltration: When rain falls on dry ground, some of the water soaks in, or infiltrates the soil.
In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area. Each drainage basin is separated topographically from adjacent basins by a perimeter, the drainage divide making up a succession of higher geographical features (such as a ridge, hill or mountains) forming a barrier.
A drainage basin or catchment basin is an extent or an area of land where surface water from rain, melting snow, or ice converges to a single point at a lower elevation, usually the exit of the basin, where the waters join another waterbody, such as a river, lake, reservoir, estuary, wetland, sea, or ocean. Each drainage basin is separated topographically from adjacent basins by a perimeter, the drainage divide making up a succession of higher geographical features (such as a ridge, hill or mountains) forming a barrier.
The actions of the people who live in a watershed affect the overall health of the watershed. That's why the EPA is encouraging citizens and organizations to participate in keeping their watersheds clean by adopting a watershed or by volunteering. Join today — it's free! Watershed protection is a means of protecting a lake, river, or stream by managing the entire watershed that drains into it. Clean, healthy watersheds depend on an informed public to make the right decisions when it comes to the environment and actions made by the community.
Watershed is a South African Pop-Rock band, which was founded in Johannesburg in 1998. Most famous for their signature tune 'Indigo Girl' in 2002, Watershed became a 'natural' success when a German radio DJ heard the single whilst vacationing in South Africa and played it on the air in Germany.
A watershed is an area of land that water flows across as it moves toward a common body of water, such as a stream, river, lake or coast. Explore the Alafia River Watershed ». Discover Your Springs & Springsheds ». Take the Watershed Pledge! ». Watershed Basics. We all live in a watershed and if you live near a spring, you live in a springshed. Watersheds are defined by the way water flows across the land and are shaped by features and elevations on the surface of the land.
A watershed is the area of land where all of the water that falls in it and drains off of it goes to a common outlet. Watersheds can be as small as a footprint or large enough to encompass all the land that drains water into rivers that drain into Chesapeake Bay, where it enters the Atlantic Ocean. 1 However, not all precipitation that falls in a watershed flows out, and a stream will often continue to flow where there is no direct runoff from recent precipitation. 2  Infiltration: When rain falls on dry ground, some of the water soaks in, or infiltrates the soil.