It is not compulsory for Health and Safety Representative to be trained however they should be encouraged to take up their training entitlement to provide them with the skills and knowledge to perform their role effectively. What training are Health and Safety Representatives entitled to? A Health and Safety Representative (HSR) is entitled to attend an initial course of training of five days and have a one day’s refresher training each year, with the first refresher training commencing 1 year after the initial training.
Health and safety training should take place during working hours and it must not be paid for by employees. There are many external trainers who will be able to help you with your training needs but effective training can often be done ‘in house’. For more advice, see HSE’s leaflet Health and safety training: A brief guide. Everyone who works for you needs to know how to work safely and without risks to health. You must provide clear instructions and information, and adequate training, for your employees. Consider how much training is necessary.
2 Organising health and safety training for your workplace Health and safety training is good for business Providing health and safety training is good for business because: n Health and safety training is a sound investment The money you spend on health and safety training saves money in the long term. 12 Organising health and safety training for your workplace What to expect from a good health and safety training program The person providing training programs for your workforce may be the supervisor at work, a TAFE lecturer, a private trainer, a health and safety consultant or a combination of these people.
4 Organising health and safety training for your workplace Types of health and safety training As an employer, it is crucial that the 'training product' you buy For details of each type of formal training course, refer to the next page. T here are many health and safety training courses available. 12 Organising health and safety training for your workplace What to expect from a good health and safety training program The person providing training programs for your workforce may be the supervisor at work, a TAFE lecturer, a private trainer, a health and safety consultant or a combination of these people.
Organising health and safety training for your workplace 3 Health and safety legislation Health and safety legislation aims to ensure that the workplace is safe and healthy and to encourage consultation and cooperation between employers and employees on health and safety matters. 12 Organising health and safety training for your workplace What to expect from a good health and safety training program The person providing training programs for your workforce may be the supervisor at work, a TAFE lecturer, a private trainer, a health and safety consultant or a combination of these people.
Effective safety training is an unofficial phrase used to describe the training materials designed to teach occupational safety and health standards developed by the United States government labor organization, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). Safety training classes help establish a safety culture in which employees themselves help promote proper safety procedures while on the job. It is important that new employees be properly trained and embrace the importance of workplace safety as it is easy for seasoned workers to negatively influence the new hires.
1 Experience-Many of our trainers have come from a health and safety enforcement background. 2  This gives us the advantage of knowing how to deliver the practical safety training that you need, without going over the top. 3  Choice-We deliver a huge range of health and safety training courses, nationally. In summary the COP requires: 1  Fire safety training should form part of the planning; training and monitoring activity. 2  Fire safety training should be continuous, commencing with induction training on the first day of appointment of new staffand continuing in the form of regular refresher training.
The benefits of using RSA include: 1  Experience-Many of our trainers have come from a health and safety enforcement background. 2  This gives us the advantage of knowing how to deliver the practical safety training that you need, without going over the top. In summary the COP requires: 1  Fire safety training should form part of the planning; training and monitoring activity. 2  Fire safety training should be continuous, commencing with induction training on the first day of appointment of new staffand continuing in the form of regular refresher training.