Learn the steps you can take to improve your credit score, from checking your credit reports for errors to opening a secured credit card. There are a number of ways to improve your credit score – from paying down debts to maintaining a low credit utilization ratio. 1 A secured card’s credit limit is tied – dollar for dollar – to the amount of your security deposit, which you can increase by as much as you want whenever you have some extra cash in hand. 2  While the rate your credit score will improve is based on many factors, there are steps that you can take to expedite the process.
If you dig in and work diligently then you should be able to improve your CREDIT---not just your credit score---over the next two to three years. How you use your CREDIT is more important than increasing the credit score. In any event, the credit score will naturally reflect your responsible use of credit. You will want to pen a secured visa and keep the balance at 30% or less. Revolving trade lines make up 30% of your credit score. Dispute any inquiries in which you do not have open accounts with. A deleted inquiry will bump your score 2-5 points.
Unfortunately, the answer is, “It depends.” It depends on what your credit score is now, and why. And it depends on how much you want to improve your credit score. Serious credit problems — foreclosures, collections records, etc. — will stick to your credit report for seven to 10 years. During that time, you’re not likely to achieve a perfect credit score. The simulator is a great tool that can help you figure out how long it will take to improve your credit score. Basically, it lets you simulate various changes to your credit report, so you can see which changes will have the biggest impact.
To figure out how long it will take you to improve your credit score, you need to know where you’re starting from. You can get a free credit report from each of the three credit reporting bureaus once a year, but this report does not include your credit score. The simulator is a great tool that can help you figure out how long it will take to improve your credit score. Basically, it lets you simulate various changes to your credit report, so you can see which changes will have the biggest impact.
The more often you make payments on time, the better your score will be. So start by checking your credit report for past due accounts. If you have several past due accounts, it's time to triage. Accounts that are 90 days late will have a bigger negative impact on your score than those that are 60 or 30 days late. So pay off the most past-due accounts first, and gradually catch up on all your payments. 2. Ask for good faith adjustments
Time Frame. Most lenders report to credit bureaus every 30-90 days. Your credit score will not change quicker than that. Even once the collection has been removed, your score may not improve significantly. It will take a couple of years of making payments month after month to raise the score by 100 points. The exact time frame depends on many factors, including your current credit score and the rest of your credit history. It takes as little as 30 days to destroy your credit score and years to build it back up
On a $165,000 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, that difference could cost you more than $13,378 in interest charges, assuming a 4.5 percent interest rate with a 700 credit score and a 4.875 percent rate on a 698 score. First things first: You can take steps to improve your credit score. The number of variables that play into an individual score make it impossible to say that one particular action will increase a given score by a certain number of points. But there are some good guidelines.
How long it takes to improve a credit score will depend, in part, on how actively you are trying to improve your score. It also depends on the cause(s) of the credit problem. Because of these and other variables, it's hard to put an exact time frame on it. 
Credit Utilization Ratio. Obviously, your usage of available credit will fall to zero once your credit cards are paid off. That's a bonus for you since credit usage makes up 30 percent of your score. Of course, if you did this with a consolidation or home equity loan, your score won't improve at all. In fact, it would actually take a slight dip because you opened a new line of credit. When you finally finish paying off your credit cards, it's natural to wonder when you'll get the big payoff of a better credit score. The reality is, it doesn't happen right away. How long it takes for your credit score to improve depends largely on how well you've managed your debt over time.