The Goldendoodle is a cross between a Golden Retriever and a Poodle (usually a Standard or Miniature). At their best, they are intelligent, friendly, and affectionate. They come in three sizes: miniature (weighing 15 to 30 pounds), medium (30 to 45 pounds), and standard (45 to more than 100 pounds). 
Weight. Goldendoodles come in a variety of sizes. The Standard Goldendoodle should weigh between 50 and 90 pounds and stand 20 to 29 inches tall at the withers. Mini Goldendoodles tip the scales between 25 and 50 pounds and are from 13 to 21 inches high at the shoulder. 
It is now time for your puppy to have regularly scheduled meals. You need to offer 4 meals a day for the first two weeks-breakfast, lunch, dinner, and an evening snack. Your puppy may only nibble at these meals or may not be interested at all in some meals. You should make the meal available for 15 minutes. If the bowl is emptied, offer more.
You may ask how long can a puppy hold their bladder. This depends upon the size of the puppy and age. Generally, at two months a puppy should be able to hold its bladder for two hours. At four months, four hours; six months, six hours; and at seven months, most are able to hold their bladders for eight hours. Ears the Goldendoodles have long fluffy ears. They can be a place for dirt and irritants to collect. Cleaning will keep those ears in great condition. It is safe to stick a cotton gauze soaked in a solution of 40% vinegar and 60% water deep inside the ear to wipe clean.
1 A Goldendoodle in a full coat is abeautiful site to behold.In order to take care of a full coated Goldendoodle properly – and avoid dreadedmats – they need to be groomed every 3 – 4 weeks by a professional groomer orat home. 2  But in between grooming, Goldendoodles with long coats need to bebrushed every day. 1 ****Warning!**** No matter how diligent you are about daily brushing of your Goldendoodle’s coat, it’s very hard to avoid matting when going through the coat change. 2  The coat change will happen when the puppy is 9 – 12 months old.The adult coat grows in to replace the baby coat.
My goldendoodle is 12 weeks old, energetic for short amounts of time, then crashes.. like a typical puppy. Does anyone know how long of a walk you think he will be able to handle. I'm not sure if I should push the limit with a 30-45 min. walk.. I'm afraid he will get bored and get to stubborn to continue. Too this day Mark walks Pemon about 10 minutes, but probably 10 times a day. I mean it. It's always been like that. Rain or shine he wants to go and usually starts asking for his walks about every 1/2 hour.
The first generation (F1) standard size Goldendoodle was the first to be bred. It is the product of a standard Poodle crossed with a Golden Retriever. Most first generation Goldendoodles either don't shed or shed lightly, and are compatible for most families with mild allergies. 
The Miniature Goldendoodle is the result of a Miniature or Toy Poodle crossed with a Golden Retriever. These dogs tend to range in size from 13 to 20 inches in height and 15 to 35 pounds in weight. The average height for a Small Standard Goldendoodle is 17 to 20 inches; the weight is 40 to 50 pounds. The Goldendoodle is a designer dog, a hybrid dog breed resulting from breeding a Poodle with a Golden Retriever. Like all other designer breeds, the Goldendoodle is not truly a breed of its own, but is a crossbreed — and in this case, a cross that is enjoying growing popularity.
Answer by Doctor Mango. Confidence votes 22. The rule of thumb is to walk a dog for around 5 minutes per 4 weeks of its age. So a 12-week-old pup may only need around 15 minutes of exercise, while a 20-week-old may be happier with 25 or so minutes of exercise. However, these are only rough guidelines, as it also depends on how much playing your puppy gets at home. 
From your schedule it sounds like Bella is crated for about 8 hours while you're at work. This is a long time for a 5 month old puppy to be crated without going outside. Ideally if someone can come in mid day at about 11:00 a.m. for a walk and potty time it would be helpful. 