Additionally, chlorine (bleach) disinfection will not remove copper. If the copper in your drinking water is not from the groundwater but from your plumbing, flushing the water system before using the water for drinking or cooking is a practical option. High levels of copper may get into the environment through mining, farming, manufacturing operations, and municipal or industrial wastewater releases into rivers and lakes. Copper can get into drinking water either by directly contaminating well water or through corrosion of copper pipes if your water is acidic.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) first issued the rule in 1991 pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act. EPA promulgated the regulations following studies that concluded that copper and lead have an adverse effect on individuals. Although lead is a known poison, the mechanical and chemical characteristics of the metal continue to keep lead as an important component in many products. In water supply, lead's durability and workability selected it for use as water pipes. Lead alloys (bronze, brass) are used for plumbing fittings.
1 | 2. This is a factsheet about Copper, a chemical that may be found in some public or private drinking water supplies. It may cause health problems if found in amounts greater than the health standard set by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Since copper contamination generally occurs from corrosion of household copper pipes, it cannot be directly detected or removed by the water system. Instead, EPA is requiring water systems to control the corrosiveness of their water if the level of copper at home taps exceeds an Action Level.
Also, because the source of lead and copper is the customer plumbing, lead and copper sampling is specified to be first draw.. Most other water samples are taken by the water supplier's personnel. Trained personnel using consistent procedures generally yield more reliable data. Although lead is a known poison, the mechanical and chemical characteristics of the metal continue to keep lead as an important component in many products. In water supply, lead's durability and workability selected it for use as water pipes. Lead alloys (bronze, brass) are used for plumbing fittings.
The Lead and Copper Rule , or LCR, is a United States federal regulation which limits the concentration of lead and copper allowed in public drinking water at the consumer's tap, as well limiting the permissible amount of pipe corrosion occurring due to the water itself. Although lead is a known poison, the mechanical and chemical characteristics of the metal continue to keep lead as an important component in many products. In water supply, lead's durability and workability selected it for use as water pipes. Lead alloys (bronze, brass) are used for plumbing fittings.
About WRAS. The purpose of WRAS is to contribute to the protection of public health by preventing contamination of public water supplies and encouraging the efficient use of water by promoting and facilitating compliance with the Water Supply (Water Fittings) Regulations and Scottish Water Byelaws. Read more. .. 
Copper is a metal that occurs naturally in rock, soil, plants, animals, and water. Since copper is easily shaped or molded, it is commonly used to make electrical wiring, and household plumbing materials. Copper may be combined with other metals to make brass and bronze pipes and faucets. High levels of copper may get into the environment through mining, farming, manufacturing operations, and municipal or industrial wastewater releases into rivers and lakes. Copper can get into drinking water either by directly contaminating well water or through corrosion of copper pipes if your water is acidic.
Drinking water must be ‘wholesome’ and this is defined in law by standards for a wide range of substances, organisms and properties of water in regulations. There is good agreement amongst worldwide on the science behind the setting of health based standards for drinking water and this expert evidence is documented by the World Health Organisation in the Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality. You can look up all the background information to standards of water safety.