The Library of Congress is the research library that officially serves the United States Congress, but which is the de facto national library of the United States. It is the oldest federal cultural institution in the United States. John J. Beckley, who became the first Librarian of Congress, was paid two dollars per day and was also required to serve as the Clerk of the House of Representatives. The small Congressional Library was housed in the United States Capitol for most of the 19th century until the early 1890s.
Library of Congress. The Library of Congress in the Capitol, 1800-1897. The law creating the Library of Congress, approved on April 24, 1800, called for its books to be housed in a suitable apartment in the Capitol. In 1800 only the north wing of the Capitol was finished. The Jefferson Building of the LIbrary of Congress. Authorized in 1886, the first separate Library of Congress building, the Jefferson Building, was opened to the public in 1897. The Library's design was based on the Paris Opera House and was unparalleled in national achievement.
The Library of Congress was originally built to house books that may be needed by Congress as reference materials. The Library was original in the Capitol building until 1814 when British troops set fire to the building. 4. The Library of Congress was established in 1800 by an act of Congress, and was begun with $5,000. 5. In 1814, the Library, which was then located in the Capitol Building, was destroyed when British troops burned the building and ran off with a bunch of the books. 6. The library was re-established in 1815 when Thomas Jefferson offered his personal collection of 6,487 books to Congress for that purpose
The oldest of the three United States Library of Congress buildings, the Thomas Jefferson Building was built between 1890 and 1897. It was originally known as the Library of Congress Building and is located on First Street SE, between Independence Avenue and East Capitol Street in Washington, D.C. The building opened to the public on November 1, 1897, met with wide approval and was immediately seen as a national monument. The building name was changed on June 13, 1980 to honor former U.S. President Thomas Jefferson, who had been a key figure in the establishment of the Library in 1800.
Library of Congress Building Opens. The Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress, Jim Higgins, photographer. Jefferson's Legacy: A Brief History of the Library of Congress. guidebook, ca. 1897. quoted in John Y. Cole, . The Buildings .. Jefferson's Legacy: A Brief History of the Library of Congress. On November 1, 1897, the new Library of Congress building opened its doors to the public. Previously, the Library had been housed in the Congressional Reading Room in the U.S. Capitol. In the twentieth century, two additional buildings were added to the Library of Congress complex on Capitol Hill. 