A single DNA nucleotide is made up of a base, a phosphate and a deoxyrib … ose sugar. In RNA, the sugar is a RIBOSE sugar, not a deoxyribose. 3. A DNA nucleotide can have 4 different bases (Guanine, Cytosine, Thymine or Adenine) but an RNA nucleotide will have Guanine, Cytosine, Adenine and URACIL instead of Thymine. 4. DNA is only found within the nucleus of the cell. RNA can be found in the cytoplasm of the cell as well as in the nucleus. The sequence of the bases on DNA is copied as a sequence of bases on RNA (messenger RNA). This is finally translated into a sequence of amino acids in the protein which determ … ines the protein's structure and function.
DNA is a doubled stranded structure, while RNA is a single stranded structure. RNA contains the sugar ribose, while DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose. RNA can have 4 nucleoti … des: cytosine, guanine, uracil, and adenine. DNA can have all these nucleotides except for uracil, which is replaced by thymine. Here are some major … differences between RNA and DNA: With the exception of a few viruses, RNA is a single-stranded molecule while DNA is double-stranded. The two DNA chains are connected by hydrogen bonds between nitrogenous bases. DNA can is replicated during cell division; RNA is not.
well the difference is that DNA's bases are thymine guanine cytosine and Ardine. But RNA instead of having thymine has uracil. DNA in most of the time doubled stranded when RNA is normally single stranded. The DNA contains the genetic information and the rna transferes the information into proteins. Here are some major … differences between RNA and DNA: With the exception of a few viruses, RNA is a single-stranded molecule while DNA is double-stranded. The two DNA chains are connected by hydrogen bonds between nitrogenous bases. DNA can is replicated during cell division; RNA is not.
The following distinguishing characteristics can be used to differentiate between DNA and RNA: Pentose sugar-the deoxyribose of DNA has one less oxygen than the ribose of R … NA Nitrogenous bases-DNA contain adenine, thymine, cytosine, guanine; RNA contains adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. Here are some major … differences between RNA and DNA: With the exception of a few viruses, RNA is a single-stranded molecule while DNA is double-stranded. The two DNA chains are connected by hydrogen bonds between nitrogenous bases. DNA can is replicated during cell division; RNA is not.
One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 
DNA is composed of deoxyribose sugar, RNA is composed of ribose sugar. DNA has Thymine as a pairing to Adenine, RNA has Uracil in place of Thymine as a pairing to Adenine. DNA has the chemical code to be transcribed. RNA is the transcribed product. 
Each nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nucleic acid base. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The sugar in RNA is ribose, the same as deoxyribose but with one more OH (oxygen-hydrogen atom combination called a hydroxyl). This is the biggest difference between DNA and RNA. Another difference is that RNA molecules can have a much greater variety of nucleic acid bases
Three of the nitrogenous bases are the same for both RNA and DNA: guanine, adenine, and cytosine. Thymine, the fourth base pair found in DNA, is replaced by uracil in RNA. DNA has deoxyribose sugar while RNA has ribose sugar. The deoxyribose sugar has one less oxygen atom than the ribose sugar. Here are some major … differences between RNA and DNA: With the exception of a few viruses, RNA is a single-stranded molecule while DNA is double-stranded. The two DNA chains are connected by hydrogen bonds between nitrogenous bases. DNA can is replicated during cell division; RNA is not.
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
1 DNA and RNA base pairing is slightly different, since DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine; RNA uses adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. 2  Uracil differs from thymine in that it lacks a methyl group on its ring. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.