Diagram of Marginal Cost. Because the short run Marginal cost curve is sloped like this, mathematically the average cost curve will be U shaped. Initially average costs fall. But, when marginal cost is above the average cost, then average cost starts to rise. Marginal fixed cost is the total fixed cost at one unit of output and is nil for all higher units of output. Average fixed cost is also the total fixed cost at one unit of output but declines in the form of a hyperbola for all higher units of output. Marginal variable costs are the same as average variable costs.
The most striking feature of the total cost curve is its curvature. The total cost curve emerges from the vertical axis at $3, then twists and turns its way to $46. This curve begins relatively steep, then flattens, before turning increasingly steep once again. It is somewhat reminiscent of the total product curve. The total cost curve is frequently used with a total revenue curve to determine the profit maximizing level of production for a firm. However, this curve is perhaps most important as the basis for deriving the average total cost curve and the marginal cost curve.
There are various types of cost curves, all related to each other, including total and average cost curves, and marginal (for each additional unit) cost curves, which are equal to the differential of the total cost curves. Thus marginal cost initially falls, reaches a minimum value and then increases. The marginal cost curve intersects both the average variable cost curve and (short-run) average total cost curve at their minimum points. When the marginal cost curve is above an average cost curve the average curve is rising.
The total cost curve graphically represents the relation between total cost and the quantity of production. This curve can be derived in two ways. One is to plot a schedule of numbers relating output quantity and total cost. The other is to vertically add the total variable cost curve and the total fixed cost curve. The total cost curve is frequently used with a total revenue curve to determine the profit maximizing level of production for a firm. However, this curve is perhaps most important as the basis for deriving the average total cost curve and the marginal
The average fixed cost (AFC) curve will decline as additional units are produced, and continue to decline. The average total cost (ATC) curve initially will decline as fixed costs are spread over a larger number of units, but will go up as marginal costs increase due to the law of diminishing returns. The graph below illustrates the shapes of these curves.Figure 3.8: Cost Curves.
Average Total Cost Curve. As noted above, the average total cost curve is U-shaped. For the first 6 Stuffed Amigos, average total cost declines from over $8 to a low of $3. However, for the production beyond 7 Stuffed Amigos, average total cost increases. The average total cost curve is constructed to capture the relation between average total cost and the level of output, holding other variables, like technology and resource prices, constant. The average total cost curve is one of three average curves.
In economics, a cost curve is a graph of the costs of production as a function of total quantity produced. Thus marginal cost initially falls, reaches a minimum value and then increases. The marginal cost curve intersects both the average variable cost curve and (short-run) average total cost curve at their minimum points. When the marginal cost curve is above an average cost curve the average curve is rising.
Long Run Average Total Cost Curve The long run average total cost curve is made up of a series of short run ATC’S. Each ATC is for a different time period, and represents the average total costs at that point in time, for those outputs. Graphing The Long Run Average Total Cost Curve The long run average total cost curve turns out to be u-shaped. Shape Of The Long Run Average Total Cost Curve Why is the long run average total cost curve initially downwards sloping? Economies of Scale explain the falling costs.
The short-run marginal cost (MC) curve will at first decline and then will go up at some point, and will intersect the average total cost and average variable cost curves at their minimum points. The average total cost (ATC) curve initially will decline as fixed costs are spread over a larger number of units, but will go up as marginal costs increase due to the law of diminishing returns. The graph below illustrates the shapes of these curves.Figure 3.8: Cost Curves.