Hyperlipidemia is the presence of elevated or abnormal levels of lipids and/or lipoproteins in the blood, and is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Blood lipids (or blood fats) are lipids in the blood, either free or bound to other molecules. They are mostly transported in a protein capsule, and the density of the lipids and type of protein determines the fate of the particle and its influence on metabolism
Most people have high levels of fat in their blood because they eat too much high-fat food. Some people have high fat levels because they have an inherited disorder. High lipid levels may also be caused by medical conditions such as diabetes, hypothyroidism, alcoholism, kidney disease, liver disease and stress. The first ways to reduce your lipid levels are (1) eat less fat, (2) exercise regularly and (3) lose weight if you weigh too much. If you smoke, stop smoking. If these steps don't lower your LDL level enough, your doctor may have you take medicine to take the fat out of your blood.
A lipid panel is a blood test that measures lipids-fats and fatty substances used as a source of energy by your body. Lipids include cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) , and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) . This panel measures: 1  Total cholesterol level. 
There are many different types of lipid (also called lipoproteins). Blood tests can measure the level of your lipoproteins. The standard lipid blood tests include a measurement of total cholesterol, LDL (low density lipoproteins) and HDL (high density lipoproteins), and triglycerides. Total cholesterol — A high total cholesterol level can increase your risk of cardiovascular disease. HDL cholesterol — Not all cholesterol is bad. Elevated levels of HDL cholesterol actually lower the risk of cardiovascular disease. A level greater than or equal to 60 mg/dL or 1.55 mmol/L is excellent, while levels of HDL cholesterol less than 40 mg/dL or 1.03 mmol/L are lower than desired.
An Overview of Cholesterol Tests. There are multiple forms of cholesterol circulating in the blood. The various forms of cholesterol and other fats in the blood are together called lipids. Doctors measure and diagnose high cholesterol with a simple blood test, often called a lipid profi le. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level.
Hypercholesterolemia (also spelled hypercholesterolaemia also called dyslipidemia) is the presence of high levels of cholesterol in the blood. It is a form of  hyperlipidemia  (elevated levels of lipids in the blood) and hyperlipoproteinemia (elevated levels of lipoproteins in the blood). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Blood lipids (or blood fats) are lipids in the blood, either free or bound to other molecules. They are mostly transported in a protein capsule, and the density of the lipids and type of protein determines the fate of the particle and its influence on metabolism
High sugar refers to high blood sugar or high blood glucose levels, and the phrase high lipids refers to high blood fat or high cholesterol levels. Glucose and cholesterol are both necessary for the body to function, but in excess high blood sugar can lead to diabetes, and high lipids can lead to heart disease. Having high blood sugar may indicate diabetes or prediabetes, but only a physician can confirm this through medical testing. In the event you have high sugar, you may need to monitor your intake of carbohydrates.
Hyperlipidemia is the presence of elevated or abnormal levels of lipids and/or lipoproteins in the blood. Lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities are extremely common in the general population, and are regarded as a highly modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Blood lipids (or blood fats) are lipids in the blood, either free or bound to other molecules. They are mostly transported in a protein capsule, and the density of the lipids and type of protein determines the fate of the particle and its influence on metabolism