1 Best practice is based on knowledge—not on assumptions—of how children learn and develop. 2  The research base yields major principles in human development and learning. 3  Those principles, along with evidence about curriculum and teaching effectiveness, form a solid basis for decision making in early care and education. 1 The research base yields major principles in human development and learning. 2
Developmentally Appropriate page -2 - Developmentally Appropriate Instruction for Early Childhood The concept of developmentally appropriate practices refers to providing an environment and offering content, materials, activities, and approaches that are coordinated with a child’s level of development and readiness. 
National Association for the Education of Young Children. (2009) Developmentally Appropriate Practice in Early Childhood Programs Serving Children from Birth through Age 8. Washington, DC: National Association for the Education of Young Children. http://www.naeyc.org/files/naeyc/file/positions/PSDAP.pdf. 
[Introduction] Hi, my name is Eva. In this course we will focus on appropriate learning environments for infants and toddlers. This course will help you recognize and develop the tools needed to create a learning environment that meets the developmental needs of infants and toddlers. Let’s begin by looking at the larger picture of space and furnishings, and work our way to a focus on appropriate learning areas. When considering the space and furnishings in an infant or toddler environment, it is important to ensure that the space is not too crowded or too open.
Copyright © 2009 by the National Association for the Education of Young Children ing, their experiences in families and early educa-tion programs have a major influence. Programs can implement evidence-based strategies that will promote positive approaches to learning. Copyright © 2009 by the National Association for the Education of Young Children 7 In the language and literacy domain, vocabu-lary knowledge and other aspects of oral language are particularly important predictors of children’s reading comprehension.
Discussions around developmentally appropriate practice ensure that students understand the physical, social, emotional, cognitive, and language needs of young learners. Students gain an understanding of these needs through a study of major learning and childhood development theories. Learning is demonstrated through designing appropriate learning activities and applying knowledge of theories.
In this course, we will focus on the many aspects of a developmentally appropriate environment. These areas include:  Health and safety,  The physical environment,  Language and literacy,  The social emotional environment,  Schedules and lesson plans, and  Parental involvement. Let’s begin by looking at the larger picture of space and furnishings, and work our way to a focus on appropriate learning areas. When considering the space and furnishings in an infant or toddler environment, it is important to ensure that the space is not too crowded or too open.
OVERVIEW. Developmentally appropriate practice, often shortened to DAP, is an approach to teaching grounded in the research on how young children develop and learn and in what is known about effective early education. Its framework is designed to promote young children’s optimal learning and development. Developmentally appropriate practice is the foundation for all of NAEYC's work including—publications, training programs, conferences, accreditation of child care programs, and more. 3 CORE CONSIDERATIONS OF DAP. • Knowing about child development and learning
From the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). To effectively apply developmentally appropriate practices in teaching and make decisions about children’s learning and development, a practitioner should: 1  Have a strong knowledge and understanding of child development. 