By Richard Nordquist. Definition: The attitude or belief that one variety of a language is superior to others and should be promoted as such. An ardent promoter of prescriptivism is called a prescriptivist or stickler. A key aspect of traditional grammar, prescriptivism is characterized by a concern for good, proper, or correct usage.
Descriptivism is based on the view that the assignment of a superior status to one variety of language is often arbitrary and is more likely to be the result of socio-economic factors than of intrinic linguistic factors.. From Keywords in Language and Literacy. 
Linguistic prescription (or prescriptivism) is the practice of elevating one variety or manner of language use over another. One problem is that prescription has a tendency to favour the language of one particular region or social class over others, and thus militates against linguistic diversity.
Definition of DESCRIPTIVIST. 1. : an advocate of descriptivism. 2. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A nonjudgmental approach to language that focuses on how it is actually spoken and written. Contrast with prescriptivism. See also: 1  Grammar
ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
In the study of language, description or descriptive linguistics is the work of objectively analyzing and describing how language is actually used (or how it was used in the past) by a group of people in a speech community. Depending on the speaker's intent, ambiguity can be desirable (as in jokes and other humor) or not. A linguistic description is considered descriptively adequate if it achieves one or more of the following goals of descriptive linguistics: 1  A description of the phonology of the language in question. 2  A description of the morphology of words belonging to that language
Definition of DESCRIPTIVISM. 1. : a theory of ethics according to which only descriptive or empirical statements are meaningful. 2. : advocacy or use of the methods of descriptive linguistics.