At this time, the Alaska Food Cost Survey data is temporarily unavailable online. Our apologies for any inconvience this may cause. For questions, or to request tables and data from the Alaska Food Cost Survey, please contact: Bret Luick, Foods and Nutrition Specialist. 
USDA Food Plans: Cost of Food report for JUNE 2015 (46.49 KB). Official USDA Alaska and Hawaii Thrifty Food Plans: Cost of Food at Home (FIRST HALF 2015). 
While the processed foods were priced roughly the same as in Anchorage, others were much worse. A single bell pepper cost $2.99, milk was $6 a gallon, and a honeydew melon was $14. We heard tell of $29 watermelon in Kotzebue, a town not far north of Nome. The cheapest items on the lunch/dinner menu are $13 hamburgers. Appetizers like cheesy breadsticks go for $16. A pizza that feeds three people can cost up to $32. Thankfully we budgeted $15 a head per meal.
To see what the current gas prices are in Fairbanks click here Food Fairbanks has competitive chain grocery stores, (Fred Meyer, Safeway, and Wal-Mart), which helps keeps prices low. There is also a large variety of products to choose from, for people who are food enthusiasts. 
Answers. Best Answer: While the price of food in Alaska is a bit more expensive than the lower 48 (The continental US) it's definitely not worth shipping food in. You're going to pay more at the chain fast food places like BK or McDonalds, but there are plenty of independently owned restaurants that use a lot of local ingredients and offer much cheaper prices. Have a great trip. Alaska is truly beautiful and it's sure to be a trip you'll never forget.
Everything costs more in Alaska ! In particular in the Northern part of the state and West. The further away from more densely populated area you go, the higher the prices. All the cost of travel to get the food to you is built into the prices. The fuel, the driving, the delivery, the set-up, etc. $7.99. 2 eggs $ 2.00 (that's right ! $1.00 per egg.)1 bottle of pure olive oil (17 ozs.) $ 19.99.
While the food is excellent, it is expensive. The cheapest items on the lunch/dinner menu are $13 hamburgers. Appetizers like cheesy breadsticks go for $16. A pizza that feeds three people can cost up to $32. Thankfully we budgeted $15 a head per meal.
In other words, the best parts of Alaska are completely free! Grocery costs. It costs roughly $122 to feed a family of four per week in Anchorage, Fairbanks, and the Mat-Su Valley. That’s on par with Portland, Ore., where the weekly family grocery bill is $100. It should be noted, however, that costs in rural Alaska are higher due to the remote locations.
Barrow, Alaska Food Prices. 10 Nov 2014 jskouri 1 Comment. I have recently relocated to Barrow, Alaska: America’s northern most city located several hundred miles inside the Arctic Circle. All food is flown in and as such I’ve been enjoying the cringe worthy and laugh out loud insanity of the food prices.
Laurie Serino, left, talks about the high food prices with Alaska... Photo: Al Grillo, AP. Milk, at just below $10 a gallon, is for sale at a store in Barrow, Alaska. Milk, at just below $10 a gallon, is for sale at a store in Barrow,... Access to fuel in Alaska can be a matter of survival. At a grocery store two blocks from where the ceremonies are held, a loaf of bread goes for $6; a gallon of milk, $10; a dozen eggs, $4.60; a pound of strawberries, $10; a half-pound of lunch meat, $7. Barrow is better off than many Alaskan villages.