The pancreas is a gland organ that is located in the abdomen. It is part of the digestive system and produces important enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level
The pancreas /ˈpaeŋkriəs/ ˈpæŋkriəs is a glandular organ in the digestive system and endocrine system of. vertebrates The pancreas also functions as an exocrine gland that assists the digestive system. It secretes pancreatic fluid that contains digestive enzymes that pass to the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins and lipids (fats) in the chyme.
In the digestive system it works by releasing liquids directly into the small intestine. They enter through the pancreatic duct which connects to the duodenum. Once food reaches the duodenum, the pancreas receives signals that it is time to secrete enzymes. 
1 It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. 2  The pancreas is a 6 to 10 inch organ and is located behind the stomach. 3  It is fish shaped and extends horizontally across the abdomen. The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level
The pancreas is also a digestive organ, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that assist digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids in the chyme. The pancreas also functions as an exocrine gland that assists the digestive system. It secretes pancreatic fluid that contains digestive enzymes that pass to the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins and lipids (fats)
Function: Secreting digestive enzymes and hormones that control blood sugar levels. Digestion. When you eat, your pancreas releases digestive juices through a duct into your duodenum-the first part of your small intestine. This fluid is rich in enzymes that break down fats, proteins and carbohydrates. It also contains sodium bicarbonate which neutralises acid in your stomach. 
The pancreas secretes important digestive enzymes (pancreatic amylase, pancreatic lipase, trypsin, and chymotrypsin) which empty into the duodenum (first part of the small int … estine) to break down the carbohydrates, fats, and proteins we ingest. 15 people found this useful. The pancreas is a gland organ that is part of the digestive and endocrine system. It is responsible for producing hormones such as glucagon and insulin. The pancreas also secr … etes digestive enzymes that pass to the small intestines. 6 people found this useful.
1 The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level