Viruses, bacteria, protists & fungi (just the basics!)- parasites postponed until we discuss them in class.I. Viruses:- A virus is a short piece of DNA or RNA, sometimes with some associated enzymes. 
Bacteria, viruses and protists can be compared and contrasted according to their structure, reproduction and effects. Although both bacteria and viruses are similar in their small shape, bacteria consist of one cell, while viruses are not considered cells, and protists may be unicellular (one celled) or multicellular. Both bacteria and viruses reproduce asexually, protists both asexually and sexually. However, bacteria reproduce by binary fission, whereas viruses reproduce by replication. While bacteria, viruses and protists are similar in that they both cause diseases, bacteria and protists can have some helpful effects. bandmanjoe | Middle School Teacher | (Level 1) Senior Educator.
All three, viruses, protists, and bacteria, reproduce asexually. However, bacteria replicates through binary fission, while viruses reproduce through replication. Similarities: 1.Both are very small (measured in nanometers) 2.Both can cause disease, or are pathogens. Although some bacteria do not cause disease. Differences: 1.Ba … cteria are present everywhere, including the human body. 2.Viruses need a host cell in order to live. They cannot replicate without a host cell
Best Answer: Difference between viruses and bacteria-the method of reproduction. Bacterium is a completely self-contained and self-reproducing unit. A virus, on the other hand, cannot reproduce without a living host. Difference is there between bacteria and protists-distinction is founded on the complexity of a cell's organization. The cellular organization of bacteria is particularly simple-they do not have membranes binding their nuclear material-and for this reason they are also named prokaryotes (before-nucleus). The cellular organization of protists is more complex-they have a membrane-bound nucleus (and other organelles distinct from the cytoplasm)- and they are therefore called eukaryotes (true-nucleus). Animals, plants and fungi, being derived from protists, are also eukaryotes.
Although both bacteria and viruses are similar in their small shape, bacteria consist of one cell, while viruses are not considered cells, and protists may be unicellular (one celled) or multicellular. Both bacteria and viruses reproduce asexually, protists both asexually and sexually. However, bacteria reproduce by binary fission, whereas viruses reproduce by replication. While bacteria, viruses and protists are similar in that they both cause diseases, bacteria and protists can have some helpful effects. Please read: http://www.agu.edu.bh/elun/newsletter-Ap...
Protists vs Bacteria. According to common biological classification, protists are classified under Kingdom Protista, while Bacteria are classified under Kingdom Monera. Unlike the cells of other organisms (plants and animals), protists and bacteria cells have very low level of cell differentiation. Due to this reason, the cells of a single individual are morphologically and functionally similar, thus reduces its adaptations and development capacity. Bacteria. The Bacteria are considered as unicellular prokaryotic organisms. Unlike eukaryotes, bacteria cells lack an organized nucleus, mitochondria, chloroplasts and other membrane bounded organelles. Bacterial cell has only a circular DNA, which does not associate with histone protein.