Overview. The scientific name for Bermuda grass is Cynodon dactylon. It is also known as couch grass, devil grass, wiregrass and dogtooth grass. Bermuda grass creates a vigorous, fast-growing lawn with medium to fine texture. In frost-free climates, Bermuda grass will stay green year-round; otherwise, it turns brown as soon as it freezes.
Also sinisterly known as the Devil's Triangle, the Bermuda Triangle consists of a region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean, and is defined by points in Bermuda, Florida and Puerto Rico. It stretches across less than a thousand miles on any one side. Credit: NOAA View full size image. The Bermuda Triangle (also known as the Devil's Triangle) is an area bounded by points in Bermuda, Florida and Puerto Rico where ships and planes are said to mysteriously vanish into thin air — or deep water.
It is the oldest of all British colonies. Bermuda shorts are well known as proper attire on the island and is probably the most famous piece of men’s attire. They are commonly worn between May 1 st and the beginning of November. It is perfectly fashionable for men to wear Bermuda shorts with knee sox, a jacket or sportscoat, and a tie. 
Destination Bermuda, a virtual travel guide to the archipelago formerly known as the Isle of Devils. This page aims to give you a broad overview of Bermuda's art, culture, people, environment, geography, history, economy and government. 
The apexes of the triangle are generally believed to be Bermuda; Miami, Florida; and San Juan, Puerto Rico, The US Board of Geographic Names does not recognize the Bermuda Triangle as an official name. The term Bermuda Triangle was first used in an article written by Vincent H. Gaddis for Argosy magazine in 1964. In the article, Gaddis claimed that in this strange sea a number of ships and planes had disappeared without explanation. The Bermuda Triangle, if you thought it was a derivative by a Genius Mathematician, then rest assured that it’s not. More complicated than any theorem, it is actually a mystery unsolved by many. Inspiration to many books, songs and dramatic sequences, this devastated place is also tagged as Devil’s Triangle
The Bermuda Triangle, also known as the Devil's Triangle, is a loosely defined region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean, where a number of aircraft and ships are said to have disappeared under mysterious circumstances. The first written boundaries date from an article by Vincent Gaddis in a 1964 issue of the pulp magazine Argosy, where the triangle's three vertices are in Miami, Florida peninsula; in San Juan, Puerto Rico; and in the mid-Atlantic island of Bermuda.
Bermuda /bɜrˈmjuːdə/ , also referred to in legal documents as, fully,  the Bermudas or Somers Isles , is a British Overseas Territory in the North Atlantic Ocean, located off the east coast of North America. Its nearest landmass is Cape Hatteras, United States, about 1,030 kilometres (640 mi) to the west-northwest. It has a subtropical climate. Bermuda is the northernmost point of the Bermuda Triangle, a region of sea in which, according to legend, a number of aircraft and surface vessels have disappeared under supposedly unexplained or mysterious circumstances. The island is in the hurricane belt and prone to severe weather.