Muscle Strains in the Thigh. A muscle strain (muscle pull or tear) is a common injury, particularly among people who participate in sports. The thigh has three sets of strong muscles: the hamstring muscles in the back of the thigh, the quadriceps muscles in the front, and the adductor muscles on the inside. The quadriceps muscles and hamstring muscles work together to straighten (extend) and bend (flex) the leg. The adductor muscles pull the legs together. Hamstring muscles at the back of the thigh. Quadriceps muscles at the front of the thigh. Muscle strains usually happen when a muscle is stretched beyond its limit, tearing the muscle fibers. They frequently occur near the point where the muscle joins the tough, fibrous connective tissue of the tendon.
Thigh pain is any discomfort, soreness or pain in the area lying between the pelvis and knee. In most instances it is due to muscle and tendon pain, but can be associated with any disease or disorder of the ligaments, bone, joints, blood vessels or nerves in the thigh. Sometimes the problem may originate from the pelvis, groin or lower back and radiate to the thigh or cause referred pain to the thigh. The causes of thigh pain have been discussed in terms of the specific structure within the thigh that has been affected like the muscles, ligaments, joints, bones, nerves and blood vessels.
The knee joins the thigh bone (femur) to the shin bone (tibia). The smaller bone that runs alongside the tibia (fibula) and the kneecap (patella) are the other bones that make the knee joint. Tendons connect the knee bones to the leg muscles that move the knee joint. Ligaments join the knee bones and provide stability to the knee: 1  The anterior cruciate ligament prevents the femur from sliding backward on the tibia (or the tibia sliding forward on the femur). 
A strain is an injury to a muscle and/or tendons. Tendons are fibrous cords of tissue that attach muscles to the bone. Strains often occur in your foot, leg (typically the hamstring) or back. Similar to sprains, a strain may be a simple stretch in your muscle or tendon, or it may be a partial or complete tear in the muscle-and-tendon combination.
BONES OF THE KNEE: The femur (thigh bone), tibia (shin bone), patella (knee cap), fibula (smaller bone next to shin bone). Muscles, tendons and ligaments connect the knee bones. The kneecap glides in a groove in the thighbone and adds leverage to the thigh muscles, which are used to extend the leg. The thigh bone and shine bone come together at the knee joint and move on one another when bending or straightening the leg. TENDONS OF THE KNEE: Tendons join muscle to bone. The quadriceps tendon hooks quad muscles to the patella (kneecap); patella tendon connects the patella to the shinbone. The quadriceps tendon and patellar tendon actually connect to form one continuous tendon that covers the patella.
Most cases of thigh pain are due to muscle and tendon strain. In these instances, the pain may only occur or worsen with certain movements of the thigh and lower leg which may provide a better indication of the muscles and tendons that are affected. The causes of thigh pain have been discussed in terms of the specific structure within the thigh that has been affected like the muscles, ligaments, joints, bones, nerves and blood vessels.
Muscles attach to bone and have tendons that stretch across a joint. When a muscle contracts, the joint moves. Major muscle groups that affect leg movement include the buttocks, the quadriceps (in the front of the thigh), the hamstrings (in the back of the thigh), and the gastrocnemius (in the back of the calf). Pain in the legs may be due to injury or inflammation of any of the structures that are found in the leg, including bones, joints, muscles, tendons, ligaments, blood vessels, nerves, and skin. Inflammation of tissues is usually the cause of pain. Pain can also radiate from other parts of the body and be felt in the leg.
The muscles in your thigh are made up of three main groups: the quadriceps (at the front of your leg), the hamstrings (at the back of your leg) and the adductors (at the inside of your leg). 
Your legs are composed of bones, muscles, tendons and ligaments. They all work together to help your legs stretch, bend, flex and perform other general movements. Your leg has seven main, or large groups, of muscle as well as several tendons. Tendons connect your muscles to your bones and act as cables, allowing your bones to move your muscles. Your quadricep muscles, also known as quads, consist of four muscles that compose the front of your leg; hence the name quads, meaning four. Your quads are located on the front, or anterior, part of your leg.