Japan Table of Contents. In the Meiji Constitution, the emperor was sovereign and was the locus of the state's legitimacy. The preamble stated, The rights of sovereignty of the State, We have inherited from Our Ancestors, and We shall bequeath them to Our descendants.. 
The Emperor (天皇, tennō, literally heavenly sovereign) is a symbol of the Japanese nation and the unity of its people. The emperor is the head of the Imperial House of Japan. He is a ceremonial figurehead. In the Japanese constitutional monarchy, the emperor does not have any political power. In world politics, he is the only current emperor. The current emperor is His Imperial Majesty the Emperor Akihito. He has been on the Chrysanthemum Throne since his father Emperor Shōwa (Hirohito) died in 1989. The amount of power belonging to the emperor of Japan has changed a lot throughout Japanese history. The Emperor of Japan has sometimes been a cleric with mostly symbolic powers and sometimes an actual ruler
Japan has emperors because they need a leader of religion. He is the religious leader and has no political power. The Shogun is the  great general. But, there is a cat … ch. The emperor has a say in who they want to either not be or be Shogun. 
The Emperor was, officially, the embodiment of all sovereign power in the realm, from 1889 to 1947, under the Meiji Constitution (and de facto from the end of the shogunate in 1867). His current status as a figurehead dates from the 1947 Constitution, which dissolved the Empire of Japan. History Edit. Although the emperor has been a symbol of continuity with the past, the degree of power exercised by the Emperor of Japan has varied considerably throughout Japanese history. In the early 7th century, the Emperor began to be called Son of Heaven (天子, tenshi　or, 天子様 tenshi-sama) .
The role of the Emperor of Japan has historically alternated between a largely ceremonial symbolic role and that of an actual imperial ruler. Since the establishment of the first shogunate in 1192, the Emperors of Japan have rarely taken on a role as supreme battlefield commander, unlike many Western monarchs. After the Meiji restoration in 1867, the Emperor was the embodiment of all sovereign power in the realm, as enshrined in the Meiji Constitution of 1889. His current status as a figurehead dates from the 1947 Constitution.
Currently, the Emperor of Japan is the only remaining monarch in the world reigning under the title of Emperor. The Imperial House of Japan is the oldest continuing hereditary monarchy in the world. After the Meiji restoration in 1867, the Emperor was the embodiment of all sovereign power in the realm, as enshrined in the Meiji Constitution of 1889. His current status as a figurehead dates from the 1947 Constitution.
The Emperor of Japan is the head of the Imperial Family and is the ceremonial head of state of Japan 's system of constitutional monarchy. According to the 1947 constitution, he is the symbol of the State and of the unity of the people.. After the Meiji restoration in 1867, the Emperor was the embodiment of all sovereign power in the realm, as enshrined in the Meiji Constitution of 1889. His current status as a figurehead dates from the 1947 Constitution.
An emperor (through Old French empereor from Latin : 'imperator') is a monarch, usually the sovereign ruler of an empire or another type of imperial realm. Empress, the female equivalent, may indicate an emperor's wife (empress consort), mother (empress dowager), or a woman who rules in her own right (empress regnant). Both kings and emperors are monarchs, but emperor and empress are considered the higher monarchical titles. In so far as there is a strict definition of emperor, it is that an emperor has no relations implying the superiority of any other ruler, and typically rules over more than one nation.
Although the emperor has been a symbol of continuity with the past, the degree of power exercised by the Emperor of Japan has varied considerably throughout Japanese history. History Edit. Although the emperor has been a symbol of continuity with the past, the degree of power exercised by the Emperor of Japan has varied considerably throughout Japanese history. In the early 7th century, the Emperor began to be called Son of Heaven (天子, tenshi　or, 天子様 tenshi-sama) .