1 Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow. 2  Psychrotrophic bacteria are those that are capable of growing at 32°F - 45°F but their optimum is from 68°F to 86°F. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2 
Microorganisms grow best within certain temperature ranges. Bacteria are classified into three groups, depending on the temperature at which the bacteria grows best. 1  Psychrophilic (cold-liking) bacteria (responsible for food spoilage in refrigerators, grow rapidly at room temp.). - 2  Growth range 32-77°F. 
of Bacteria. Since bacteria grow in many environments from artic oceans to hot springs, it is not surprising that the optimum growth temperatures vary. Bacteria from the human gut grow well at body temperature (37 C) but bacteria from plants may be killed at that temperature. Make 6 identical plates and streak the same 8 bacteria on each plate then incubate each plate at a different temperature. Here are some suggested temperatures. 1  several days at 4 C. 2  2 days at 4 C; then 1 or 2 days at r.t. ( 3 r.t. is room temperature). 4  two days at room temperture. 5  one or two days at 37 C
1 Thermophilic bacteria. 2  These microorganisms grow at higher temperatures such as 110°F - 150°F. 3  Temperature is the most widely used method of controlling bacterial growth. 4  Bacteria grow slowly at temperatures below 45°F and thermal destruction occurs at temperatures above 140°F. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2  Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow.
Psychrophiles. Bacteria that grow at temperatures in the range of -5 o C to 30 o C, with optimum temperatures between 10 o C and 20 o C, are called psychrophiles. These microbes have enzymes that catalyze best when the conditions are cold, and have cell membranes that remain fluid at these lower temperatures. Upper and Lower Values, and Temperature Range Some species of microorganism can grow at temperatures as low as -10 o C, and others at temperatures as high as 100 o C-or higher. These upper and lower values are a function of cell metabolism.
1 These microorganisms grow at higher temperatures such as 110°F - 150°F. 2  Temperature is the most widely used method of controlling bacterial growth. 3  Bacteria grow slowly at temperatures below 45°F and thermal destruction occurs at temperatures above 140°F. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2  Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow.
1 Most pathogenic bacteria grow at these temperatures. 2  Thermophilic bacteria. 3  These microorganisms grow at higher temperatures such as 110°F - 150°F. 4  Temperature is the most widely used method of controlling bacterial growth. 1 However, many bacteria grow under either condition and they are facultative anaerobes. 2  Temperature -- Bacteria in general are capable of growing over a wide range of temperatures and are usually classified according to the temperature at which they grow.
The temperature range in which most bacteria grow is between 40 degrees F (5 degrees C) and 140 degrees F (60 degrees C). Raw and cooked foods should not be kept in this danger zone any longer than absolutely necessary. Undercooking or improper processing of home-canned foods can cause very serious food poisoning. 
What Pathogenic Bacteria Need to Grow. 1  Temperature-Bacteria grow best in the temperature range between 4ºC and 60ºC. 2  Temperature below 4ºC, and temperature between 60ºC and 74ºC, will not kill bacteria, but it will not allow them to multiply enough times to cause an illness. 1