Nuclear Medicine Physicist. Nuclear medicine physicists work with nuclear imaging instrumentation and radiation dosimetry. They are considered experts in dealing with the interactions between ionizing radiation and matter. Many of them also have expertise in computer science and image processing. Nuclear medicine physicists have a master's or doctorate degree in one of the following fields: 1  Physics. 2  Medical Physics. 3  Radiologic Physics. 4  Engineering. 5  Applied Mathematics. 6  Other physical sciences.
Nuclear medicine is a medical specialty involving the application of radioactive substances in the diagnosis and treatment of disease. Nuclear medicine scans are usually conducted by nuclear medicine technologists. The nuclear medicine whole body bone scan is generally used in evaluations of various bone-related pathology, such as for bone pain, stress fracture, nonmalignant bone lesions, bone infections, or the spread of cancer to the bone.
Medical Physics (also called biomedical physics or medical biophysics or applied physics in medicine) is generally speaking the application of physics concepts, theories and methods to medicine or healthcare. In the case of hospital work the term 'Medical Physicist' is the title of a specific healthcare profession with a specific mission statement (see below).
The physicist is a key member of the nuclear medicine team and has specific responsibilities for the scientific and technical aspects of the service. The professional role of a nuclear medicine physicist will fall within some or all of seven main areas. 
Medical Physics is: 1  Defined as the application of physics to the needs of medicine. 2  Launched by 2 Nobel prizes in physics; subsequently 2 Nobel prizes in Medicine or Physiology. 3  Responsible for the technical foundations of radiology, radiation oncology, and nuclear medicine. 
Nuclear Medicine is a fascinating application of nuclear physics. The first ten chapters of this wikibook are intended to support a basic introductory course in an early semester of an undergraduate program. 1 Society of Nuclear Medicine-the main nuclear medicine society in the USA-describes what nuclear medicine is and how it relates to other medical imaging modalities. 2  Career information is also included. 3  American Society of Nuclear Cardiology-the main nuclear cardiology society in the USA.
Medical physics departments may be found in hospitals or universities. In the case of hospital work the term 'Medical Physicist' is the title of a specific healthcare profession with a specific mission statement (see below).
A nuclear medicine physicist with expertise in image reconstruction and data analysis is able to assist in determining the best possible approaches for processing various kinds of nuclear medicine studies. Nuclear medicine physicists have a master's or doctorate degree in one of the following fields: 1  Physics. 2  Medical Physics. 3  Radiologic Physics. 4  Engineering. 5  Applied Mathematics. 6  Other physical sciences.
Nuclear medicine myocardial perfusion scan with thallium-201 for the rest images (bottom rows) and Tc-Sestamibi for the stress images (top rows). The nuclear medicine myocardial perfusion scan plays a pivotal role in the noninvasive evaluation of coronary artery disease. The nuclear medicine whole body bone scan is generally used in evaluations of various bone-related pathology, such as for bone pain, stress fracture, nonmalignant bone lesions, bone infections, or the spread of cancer to the bone.
Nuclear medicine radiologists, also called nuclear radiologists, are physicians who use radioactive materials, called radiopharmaceuticals, to diagnose and treat disease. They employ such techniques as scintigraphy, which uses radiopharmaceuticals to produce images of the body's organs or to visualize certain diseases. Nuclear medicine physicists have a master's or doctorate degree in one of the following fields: 1  Physics. 2  Medical Physics. 3  Radiologic Physics. 4  Engineering. 5  Applied Mathematics. 6  Other physical sciences.