Mammals differ from other vertebrates such as reptiles, birds and amphibians in that they have a single lower jaw bone that attaches directly to the skull. This bone is referred to as the dentary, due to the fact that it holds the teeth of the lower jaw. Hair. Hair is one of the characteristics of a mammal that is unique to mammals—no other animals have true hair and all mammals have hair covering at least part of their body at some time during their life. An individual hair consists of a rod of cells that are reinforced by a protein known as keratin
1 The discovery of Juramaia suggests that the split between placental and marsupial mammals occurred more than 160 million years ago. 2  However, we have not discovered any fossils closely related to these lineages from the time period between 160 and 125 million years ago. Early relatives of placental mammals, like Juramaia (ones that clearly evolved after placentals and marsupials split), were around more than 150 million years ago. Both pieces of evidence lined up and pointed to a placental/marsupial split sometime between 160 and 18
Most of the evidence consists of fossils. For many years, fossils of Mesozoic mammals and their immediate ancestors were very rare and fragmentary; but, since the mid-1990s, there have been many important new finds, especially in China. The first clear evidence of hair or fur is in fossils of Castorocauda, from 164M years ago in the mid-Jurassic. As both extant mammals and Castorocauda have a double coat of hair, with both guard hairs and an undercoat, it may be assumed that their last common ancestor did as well.
The more that we learn about the evolution of specific species lines, the more that these so-called gaps or missing links in the chain of evolution are filled with transitional fossil specimens. One of the first of these gaps to be filled was between small bipedal dinosaurs and birds. 
Although mammary glands are a signature feature of modern mammals, little is known about the evolution of lactation as these soft tissues are not often preserved in the fossil record. The first clear evidence of hair or fur is in fossils of Castorocauda, from 164M years ago in the mid-Jurassic. As both extant mammals and Castorocauda have a double coat of hair, with both guard hairs and an undercoat, it may be assumed that their last common ancestor did as well.
Evolution is the process of change in all forms of life over generations, and evolutionary biology is the study of how evolution occurs. Biological populations evolve through genetic changes that correspond to changes in the organisms ' observable traits. 
There is a continuum of fossil forms from basically primitive reptiles, to primitive synapsid reptiles, to advanced mammal-like reptiles, to primitive reptile-like mammals, to advanced mammals of the kind that survive today. All mammals, living or fossil, have a single bone, the dentary, on each side of the lower jaw, and all mammals, living or fossil, have three auditory ossicles or ear bones, the malleus, incus, and stapes. In some fossil reptiles the number and size of the bones of the lower jaw are reduced compared to living reptiles
Understanding of the evolution of erect limbs in mammals is incomplete — living and fossil monotremes have sprawling limbs. Some scientists think that the parasagittal (non-sprawling) limb posture is limited to the Boreosphenida, a group that contains the therians but not, for example, the multituberculates. The first clear evidence of hair or fur is in fossils of Castorocauda, from 164M years ago in the mid-Jurassic. As both extant mammals and Castorocauda have a double coat of hair, with both guard hairs and an undercoat, it may be assumed that their last common ancestor did as well.