A plant disease is usually defined as abnormal growth and/or dysfunction of a plant. Diseases are the result of some disturbance in the normal life process of the plant. Diseases may be the result of living and/or non-living causes. Biotic diseases are caused by living organisms such as fungi, bacteria, and viruses. 
Viruses cause a number of diseases in eukaryotes. In humans, smallpox, the common cold, chickenpox, influenza, shingles, herpes, polio, rabies, Ebola, hanta fever, and AIDS are examples of viral diseases. Even some types of cancer -- though definitely not all -- have been linked to viruses.
Viruses spread in many ways; viruses in plants are often transmitted from plant to plant by insects that feed on plant sap, such as aphids; viruses in animals can be carried by blood-sucking insects. These disease-bearing organisms are known as vectors. Influenza viruses are spread by coughing and sneezing. Other viruses, such as rabies virus, can infect different species of mammals and are said to have a broad range. The viruses that infect plants are harmless to animals, and most viruses that infect other animals are harmless to humans.
Virus spread control. Viral diseases can be prevented from spreading by vaccinations and the most successful of these is the small pox vaccine that has completely eradicated the disease in 1980. It is hoped that several other viruses, such as polio and measles, will follow. In addition, in order to spread the viruses also need to withstand the immune system. A special category of viruses is those that cause disease only when the immune system is deﬁcient in some way; these are called opportunists, and opportunistic infection is one of the main problems in patients with, for example, AIDS.
Diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and bluetongue are caused by viruses. Companion animals such as cats, dogs, and horses, if not vaccinated, are susceptible to serious viral infections. Canine parvovirus is caused by a small DNA virus and infections are often fatal in pups. Other viruses, such as rabies virus, can infect different species of mammals and are said to have a broad range. The viruses that infect plants are harmless to animals, and most viruses that infect other animals are harmless to humans.
Disease Viruses Humans have known and feared diseases caused by virusesfor thousands of years. Among the diseases that virusescause (table 33.1) are influenza, smallpox, infectious hepati-tis, yellow fever, polio, rabies, and AIDS, as well as manyother diseases not as well known. 
Examples of common human diseases caused by viruses include the common cold, influenza, chickenpox, and cold sores. Many serious diseases such as Ebola virus disease, AIDS, avian influenza, and SARS are caused by viruses. The relative ability of viruses to cause disease is described in terms of virulence. Other viruses, such as rabies virus, can infect different species of mammals and are said to have a broad range. The viruses that infect plants are harmless to animals, and most viruses that infect other animals are harmless to humans.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. There are two main types of influenza (flu) virus: Types A and B. The influenza A and B viruses that routinely spread in people (human influenza viruses) are responsible for seasonal flu epidemics each year. Influenza A viruses can be broken down into sub-types depending on the genes that make up the surface proteins. 
Although viruses are extremely small and simple, they are a major cause of disease. Some viruses infect human beings with such diseases as measles, influenza, and the common cold. Others infect animals or plants, and still others attack bacteria. Viruses produce disease in an organism by damaging some of its cells. However, viruses sometimes live in cells without harming them. Following is the table of some of the viruses which are responsible for many common human diseases such as colds, flu, diarrh a, chicken pox, measles, and mumps. Some viral diseases such as rabies, h morrhagic fevers, encephalitis, polio, yellow fever, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) can result in death.