The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 
7. Water your lawn for at least 30 minutes a day for seven days to make sure the seeds get enough water. Wait as long as you can to mow the tall grass -- at least four to five days -- so the seeds have time to become stable in the soil. Water your lawn for about an hour immediately after you rake
6. Water your lawn for about an hour immediately after you rake. Water your lawn for at least 30 minutes a day for seven days to make sure the seeds get enough water. Wait as long as you can to mow the tall grass -- at least four to five days -- so the seeds have time to become stable in the soil.
Answer by ebu (14). Grass seed will stay good for at least a year and a half to two years, depending on the storage conditions (cool and dry). It will probably stay viable for longer-the only issue is that the germination rate will not be as high as with fresh seed. add a comment. +1 vote! 
Being living organisms, these seeds interact with the surrounding air and moisture, which can change their germination chances. Unopened grass seed may last longer than an opened bag, but how you store them makes a difference in how long the seeds will remain viable. Seeds and Moisture. Seeds naturally exchange moisture with the air, beginning with their initial development. An unopened bag of grass seed lasts longer if it was harvested in dry conditions. With dry air surrounding the seeds in the field, they do not absorb as much moisture as they enter storage.
Submit. Stored properly in a dry, tightly-sealed container, grass seed can last two to three years. Test yours by planting a few kernels in a flower pot. Keywords: grass seed shelf life, planting grass seed, grass seed. About this Author. Sandy Mitchell is an Ohio-based writer, blogger and editor. She writes for The Better Drink and other online publications. Before devoting herself full-time to writing, Mitchell was a travel agent and cruise school instructor for 18 years.
Other grasses, depending on the variety, typically last up to three years in storage. Germination chances are still reduced within the storage period. For example, you need more seed to cover an area, compared to fresh seed, because a certain percentage will fail to sprout over time. Seeds and Moisture. Seeds naturally exchange moisture with the air, beginning with their initial development. An unopened bag of grass seed lasts longer if it was harvested in dry conditions. With dry air surrounding the seeds in the field, they do not absorb as much moisture as they enter storage.
Age – All seeds stay viable for at least a year and most will be viable for two years. After the first year, the germination rates for out-of-date seeds will start to fall. Type – The type of seed can affect how long a seed stays viable. Some seeds, like corn or peppers, will have a hard time surviving past the two year mark. Some seeds, like beans, peas, tomatoes and carrots, can stay viable as long as four years. Seeds like cucumber or lettuce can stay viable up to six years. 
If you have grass seeds that are sealed into a package, they cannot exchange moisture with the surrounding air. With an optimum 13 percent internal moisture level, sealed seeds simply exchange air within their container -- no new moisture is introduced, so humidity levels remain low, with high viability over the years. Seeds and Moisture. Seeds naturally exchange moisture with the air, beginning with their initial development. An unopened bag of grass seed lasts longer if it was harvested in dry conditions. With dry air surrounding the seeds in the field, they do not absorb as much moisture as they enter storage.
If stored in a cool, dry place, grass seed can last for 2-3 years. However, the germination rate (the number of seeds that will grow) will decrease over time, so you may not get the same results you would if you were using fresh seed. For best results, use fresh product and try to plant it within a year. 