1 Hiring an engineer to help design a retaining wall can run about $200-$500 or more, depending on the complexity and extent of the project. 2  Hiring an engineer is strongly recommended for walls over 3 feet high. Shopping for a retaining wall: 1  Hiring an engineer to help design a retaining wall can run about $200-$500 or more, depending on the complexity and extent of the project. 2  Hiring an engineer is strongly recommended for walls over 3 feet high.
Concrete Retaining Wall Prices. Concrete retaining wall prices start around $30 per square foot including materials and installation and can go as high as $45 to $50 per square foot depending on how much prep work is involved in building the forms. Walls higher than four feet typically require a different type of form which will raise the cost. Wood Retaining Wall Prices. Wooden retaining walls start at around $20 per square foot including materials and installation if using cost-effective pressure treated lumber. Hardwoods such as redwood, Cyprus or mahogany will raise the price over $30 per surface square foot but add an element of beauty to your wall.
1 Costs will vary widely. 2  The Wall-for a cast in place (concrete) retaining wall with a vertical face, installed on no more than a 33 degree slope with a level embankment, at 6' high (including excavation and backfill) the cost will be $12,800. For the purpose of this discussion we will consider the costs of building a retaining wall from cast concrete and at a length of 50 linear feet. We will also take into consideration various heights as well, ranging from six, eight and ten feet.
1 When the wall is increased to 8' in height the cost will average at $13,700, and when the height is bumped up to 10' the cost increases to $19,900. 2  Estimates and quotes-like many other major construction projects it is advisable to seek out estimates from a range of providers. For the purpose of this discussion we will consider the costs of building a retaining wall from cast concrete and at a length of 50 linear feet. We will also take into consideration various heights as well, ranging from six, eight and ten feet.
1 Materials and installation for a stone retaining wall start around $25-$40 a square face foot and go up depending on materials, site conditions, and other factors. 2  It costs $1,250-$2,000 or more for a wall 30 inches high and 20 feet long. Shopping for a retaining wall: 1  Hiring an engineer to help design a retaining wall can run about $200-$500 or more, depending on the complexity and extent of the project. 2  Hiring an engineer is strongly recommended for walls over 3 feet high.
1 Do-it-yourself materials cost about $10-$15 a square face foot. 2  ThisOldHouse.com provides a video showing how to build a block wall, calling the project challenging and estimating it will take two people 8-10 hours for a low wall 10-16 feet long. Shopping for a retaining wall: 1  Hiring an engineer to help design a retaining wall can run about $200-$500 or more, depending on the complexity and extent of the project. 2  Hiring an engineer is strongly recommended for walls over 3 feet high.
1 The Wall-for a cast in place (concrete) retaining wall with a vertical face, installed on no more than a 33 degree slope with a level embankment, at 6' high (including excavation and backfill) the cost will be $12,800. For the purpose of this discussion we will consider the costs of building a retaining wall from cast concrete and at a length of 50 linear feet. We will also take into consideration various heights as well, ranging from six, eight and ten feet.
Retaining Wall Cost. Poured retaining walls with elaborate curves require complex formwork and will drive up cost for a wall. The total cost to have a concrete retaining wall installed will be a combination of material and labor prices. For a basic wall you can expect to pay between $30 and $40 per square foot. If you add a decorative finish, curves, steps, lighting or other upgrades, the cost will rise. For Ralston, $39 per square foot is the average cost he charges for a wall under 4 feet tall. For walls below 4 feet, he says his prices are often competitive with finished block. A block wall has to be stuccoed or finished with veneer, while a concrete wall does not need an added finish.
1 Material and labor for a wood retaining wall runs approximately $20-$25 a square face foot (and there's usually a minimum charge for small projects), which would be about $1,000-$1,300 for a 50-square-face-foot wall. Shopping for a retaining wall: 1  Hiring an engineer to help design a retaining wall can run about $200-$500 or more, depending on the complexity and extent of the project. 2  Hiring an engineer is strongly recommended for walls over 3 feet high.