27 Throgmorton Street, City, London EC2N | 2 minutes from Bishopsgate. Empty for four years, the building next to Drapers Hall and behind the Bank of England which used to be Throgmortons became Heroes Grotto of Comedy ... 40 Liverpool Street, City, London EC2M | 5 minutes from Bishopsgate. One of five different restaurants and bars within the confines of the Andaz hotel, the George is a traditional looking pub-not your typical hotel ...
27 Throgmorton Street, City, London EC2N | 4 minutes from St Helen's Church, Bishopsgate. Empty for four years, the building next to Drapers Hall and behind the Bank of England which used to be Throgmortons became Heroes Grotto of Comedy ... 25 St Mary Axe, City, London EC3A | 1 minute from St Helen's Church, Bishopsgate. Pret sells up market fast food, hand made from natural ingredients, to take away or eat on site, in its trademark no nonsense chrome interiors. The ...
38 Threadneedle Street, City, London EC2R | 1 minute from Bishopsgate. Celebrity chef Jamie Oliver indulges the Italian in him with his chain of family-oriented Jamie's Italian restaurants which have sprung up all over the country since ... 40 Liverpool Street, City, London EC2M | 5 minutes from Bishopsgate. One of five different restaurants and bars within the confines of the Andaz hotel, the George is a traditional looking pub-not your typical hotel ...
196 Bishopsgate is ideally located in the heart of the City close to numerous shops, restaurants and cafes at the nearby Broadgate, Leadenhall Market, Petticoate Lane and (needless to say) the West End! 
Welcome to our guide for the area around Bishopsgate in City and County of the City of London. Below we present a selection of upcoming events, local attractions and great places to eat and shop. The nearest station to Bishopsgate is Liverpool Street Tube Station which is about 4 minutes to the North East. Bishopsgate is in the London area of City. 40 Liverpool Street, City, London EC2M | 5 minutes from Bishopsgate. One of five different restaurants and bars within the confines of the Andaz hotel, the George is a traditional looking pub-not your typical hotel ...
196 Bishopsgate, City of London, London, EC2M 4NR, United Kingdom – City of London is a great choice for travelers interested in Food, History and Sightseeing – Check location Show map – Subway Access. Excellent location – rated 9.4/10! Rated by guests after their stay at 196 Bishopsgate. Located in the heart of London's financial district, 196 Bishopsgate offer fully serviced and modern 4-star hotel apartments, across from Liverpool Street train and subway stations. 196 Bishopsgate have a range of accommodations, from Studio to Executive Apartments.
Bishopsgate is one of the 25 wards of the City of London and also the name of a major road (part of the A10) between Gracechurch Street and Norton Folgate in the northeast corner of London 's main financial district. Bishopsgate is named after one of the original eight gates in the London Wall. The site of this former gate is marked by a stone bishop 's mitre, fixed high upon a building located at Bishopsgate's junction with Wormwood Street, by the gardens there and facing the Heron Tower. Since the 1994 (City) and 2003 (ward) boundary changes, almost all of the ward is Without; only a small area surrounding the Leathersellers ' livery hall remains as Bishopsgate Within.
196 Bishopsgate is located in London's financial district, which is a short hop on the tube from the thriving West End, a mere walk to the River Thames, and a stone's throw from the numerous bars and restaurants of London's fashionable Hoxton and Shoreditch districts. 
110 Bishopsgate, City, London EC2N | 1 minute from St Helen's Church, Bishopsgate. When it was completed in March 2011 Heron Tower was the tallest building in the City of London, a title soon snatched from it by the ... 25 St Mary Axe, City, London EC3A | 1 minute from St Helen's Church, Bishopsgate. Pret sells up market fast food, hand made from natural ingredients, to take away or eat on site, in its trademark no nonsense chrome interiors. The ...