1 Temporarily plug a network cable into your laptop and wireless router. 2  When your computer is on, it should automatically connect to the router [source: Microsoft 3  ]. Open Internet Explorer and type in the URL address of your wireless router to access the configuration page.
If you have a wireless router, connect your smart tv to your wireless network in settings. Once your connected to your router choose input list and you will see the name of your computer listed. Choose your computer then search through your computer folders to find file you want to play.
2. Select your network from the list. When you click the Network icon, you will see a list of all of the available networks in your range. Select the network that you want to connect to from the list. 1  If you can’t find your network, check that you set it up properly.
You can connect your laptop to the Internet through a Wi-Fi connection if you have a wireless router connected to broadband Internet and an operating system that fully supports wireless networking, such as Windows 7, Vista or XP. Here's what to do: 1  Temporarily plug a network cable into your laptop and wireless router.
Windows Vista. If you are connecting to XFINITY WiFi for the first time, follow all the steps below to configure your computer to use your private home WiFi network at home and XFINITY WiFi when you are visiting a friend or traveling around town.
To connect a computer to the router, open the Charms menu and click Settings.. Then click the Wi-Fi icon to bring up the networks list and select your wireless router from the list. If you've set a password for the router, Windows prompts you to enter it.
You see a display of wireless networks detected by your laptop. If you hover your onscreen pointer on or near one of the names, you can learn some details of the network, including the strength of the signal and whether the system is protected by password security. Click the network you want to use and click connect.
Enter your wireless password. When you select your network, you will be asked to enter the password if the network is secured. Once you enter the password you will be connected to the network. 1  You can also connect to your wireless network through the Desktop mode. 2  Follow the steps for Windows 7.