Officially the national dance of Peru, Marinera music is an upbeat type of music that is very passionate and alive. The Marinera dance is traditionally very classy and romantic, while still maintaining a bit of passion. Typically, a cajon, guitar, and bugle are used to create this dance music. Although the official origins of Marinera are unknown, it contains obvious signs of African, Spanish, and Peruvian influences.
Andean influences can perhaps be best heard in wind instruments and the shape of the melodies, while the African influences can be heard in the rhythm and percussion instruments, and European influences can be heard in the harmonies and stringed instruments. The charango is member of the lute family of instruments and was invented during the Viceroyalty of Peru by musicians imitating the Spanish vihuela. In the Canas and Titicaca regions, the charango is used in courtship rituals, symbolically invoking mermaids with the instrument to lure the woman to the male performers.
Peru music was first created thousands of years ago, by the ancient Inca civilization. To be precise, recent archaeological research has discovered that Peru music was founded as early as 10,000 years ago. The ancient Incas used local resources to create the Peru music that is widely heard today throughout the world. This article will focus on the ancient music, and it's impact today. Ancient Peruvians used whatever local resources were available to create the ancient Peru music that we hear today on CDs. They used metals, cane, bone, sea shells, and even mud to create the first Peru music. The Marinera dance is traditionally very classy and romantic, while still maintaining a bit of passion. Typically, a cajon, guitar, and bugle are used to create this dance music. Although the official origins of Marinera are unknown, it contains obvious signs of African, Spanish, and Peruvian influences.
Peruvian music is dominated by the national instrument, the charango. It was invented during the Viceroyalty of Peru by musicians imitating the Spanish vihuela. In the Canas and Titicaca regions, the charango is used in courtship rituals. Andean Music. Along the Peruvian Andes, in every town, there are a variety of songs and dances. In Inca times, the word was used taki to refer simultaneously to both the song and the dance, as both activities were not separated from one another. Andean music now is all mixed, even most used instruments in the Andes is mestizo
The wool of the Alpaca, which is native to Peru, is still used today in keeping with tradition on making Peruvian clothing. Along with Peruvian traditions, traditional Spanish and other modern day influences are now being mixed in. Traditional Peruvian clothing generally reflects what village a man or woman comes from. 
Interesting facts about people and society in Peru. Most Peruvians are mestizo , a term that usually refers to a mixture of Amerindians and Peruvians of European descent. Peruvians of European descent make up about 15% of the population. Pure Amerindians are a large segment of the population, 35%
Andean communities have a powerful musical tradition inherited from the Inca Empire. The Inca society was based on collective effort and their success outweighed the individual’s. This is the case of music in the Inca civilization, musicians joined to create music through cooperation and support. The pututu was a trumpet made from a large seashell or a hollow cow horn. It was not used to play music but mostly used for communicating an important arrival and was also used in religious ceremonies. Pinkillo is found throughout the Andes. It is made of cane, bamboo, bone or tree branches.
Peru has an approximate land area of 496,225 square miles (1,285,223 square kilometers) and is located in the central western section of the South American continent. It borders Ecuador and Colombia to the north, Brazil and Bolivia to the east, Chile to the south, and the Pacific Ocean to the west. Peru's capital, Lima, is located on the coast, about 8 miles (13 kilometers) from the Pacific Ocean. Lima is home to almost a third of Peru's total population, with a total of two-thirds of the country's population living in the coastal region. 
1 Carnaval en Amazonas —A dance from the Amazonas region similar to the huayno. 2  Carnavalito —A dance from southern Peru and the Bolivian Altiplano similar to the huayno. 3  Chumaichada —A dance from the Amazonas region with strong Native Peruvian musical influences and strong European dance influences. The charango is member of the lute family of instruments and was invented during the Viceroyalty of Peru by musicians imitating the Spanish vihuela. In the Canas and Titicaca regions, the charango is used in courtship rituals, symbolically invoking mermaids with the instrument to lure the woman to the male performers.