The Three Mile Island accident was a partial nuclear meltdown that occurred on March 28, 1979, in one of the two Three Mile Island nuclear reactors in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, United States. It was the worst accident in U.S. commercial nuclear power plant history. 
Three Mile Island was the most serious accident in U.S. commercial nuclear power plant operating history. Today marks the 35 th anniversary of the worst nuclear accident in U.S. history. On March 28th, 1979 one of the reactors at the The Three Mile Island nuclear power plant in Dauphin County partially melted down. 
In March 1979, a series of mechanical and human errors at the Three Mile Island nuclear generating plant near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, resulted in an accident that profoundly affected the utility industry. An unlikely series of mechanical and human errors in Unit 2 of the nuclear generating plant at Three Mile Island, near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in 1979
America’s worst accident at a civilian nuclear power plant occurred on March 28, 1979. Unbeknown to anyone, half the fuel melted in one of two nuclear reactors on Three Mile Island near Harrisburg, Pa. Large quantities of radioactivity leaked from the reactor, but most of it was contained. In all probability, no one received a harmful amount of radiation.
Susquehanna River: Three Mile Island is located in the Susquehanna river. The river flows south from Otsego Lake near Cooperstown, New York, through the northern and central ranges of the Appalachian Mountains in Pennsylvania. The island is just south of Harrisburg. Middletown, Pennsylvania: Town directly east of Three Mile Island; technically the plant is within the coundaries of the Borough of Middletown. Millirem: A measure of radiation. A millirem is one-thousandth of a rem (Roentgen), the basic
Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire. Three Mile Island Camp is a family-oriented facility of the Appalachian Mountain Club. Located on Lake Winnipesaukee in Meredith, NH, Three Mile Island welcomes AMC members and the general public to summer and fall vacation opportunities. 
Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station (TMI) is a civilian nuclear power plant located on Three Mile Island in the Susquehanna River, south of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Check the Harrisburg link and they can give you the exact address. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Mile_... Asker's rating. Report Abuse. The Three Mile Island accident was a partial core meltdown in Unit 2 (a pressurized water reactor manufactured by Babcock & Wilcox) of the Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania near Harrisburg.
Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station (TMI) is a nuclear power plant located on Three Mile Island in the Susquehanna River, south of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania in Londonderry Township. It has two separate units, TMI-1 and TMI-2. The reactor core of TMI-2 has since been removed from the site, but the site has not been decommissioned. Three Mile Island is so named because it is located three miles downriver from Middletown, Pennsylvania. The plant was originally built by General Public Utilities Corporation, later renamed GPU Incorporated. The plant was operated by Metropolitan Edison Company (Met-Ed), a subsidiary of the GPU Energy division
Three Mile Island: The island on which the nuclear plants (Three Mile Island Units 1 and 2) are located. Unit 2 has been inoperative since the accident. Governor Richard Thornburgh: Former Pennsylvania Governor. He was in his first year of office in March 1979 when the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island occurred. Middletown, Pennsylvania: Town directly east of Three Mile Island; technically the plant is within the coundaries of the Borough of Middletown. Millirem: A measure of radiation. A millirem is one-thousandth of a rem (Roentgen), the basic