Lewis is a form of the name Louis. English form of the French name Louis which is in turn a form of the German name Ludwig. Ludwig is derived from the elements Hlud meaning fame and wig meaning warrior. Lewis falls into the classic name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Lewis Carroll
Lowis or Lewis is the Anglo-French form of the name, and Lowis le Briton was entered in the Red Book of the Exchequer, Essex, in 1166. The surname first appears on record at the beginning of the 13th Century (see below). William Lewys was noted as a witness in the 1267 Fines Court Rolls of Suffolk. 
Lewis is a very prominent first name for males (#180 out of 1220, Top 15%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#26 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Lewis for boys. Lewis /lewis/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced LOO-iss. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Lewis is  famous warrior . Anglicization of Louis. Author Lewis Carroll
French Meaning: The name Lewis is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Lewis is: Famous warrior, from the Old German 'Chlodovech'. Aloysius is the name of the Italian Saint Aloysius of Gonzaga, and common among British Roman Catholics. English Meaning: The name Lewis is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lewis is: English Famous warrior. In Wales, sometimes Lewis is used in place of Llewellyn. Famous Bearer: 19th century writer Lewis Carroll. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Lewis is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Lewis is: King Henry V' The Dauphin. 'King Henry the Sixth, Part III' Lewis XI, King of France. 'King John' Lewis, t
Lewis is a surname in the English language. It has several independent origins. One of origins of the surname, in England and Wales, is from the Norman personal name Lowis, Lodovicus. This name is composed of the Germanic elements hlod and wig, meaning fame and war. The name developed into the Old French Clovis, Clouis, Louis; as well as into the German Ludwig. One such name is Llywelyn in Welsh which has been Anglicised into Lewis, with among the earliest examples being the Lewis family of Glamorgan in the 1540s. Another is the Gaelic surname Mac Lughaidh, meaning son of Lughaidh , which has also been Anglicised as Lewis. The surname Lewis is also an Americanization of several like-sounding Jewish surnames, such as  Levi , and of the Arab form of the name  Elias 
Origin of the name Louis: Derived from the Old French Loeis, which is from the Old High German Hluodowig (famous in war), a compound name composed from the elements hluod (famous) and wīg (war, strife). Var: Lewis, Luis. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
In Wales, the Lewis surname may have derived from an Anglicized form of the personal name Llywelyn. As an Irish or Scottish surname, Lewis can be an Anglicized form of the Gaelic Mac Lughaidh, meaning son of Lughaidh, derived from Lugh 'brightness.'. Lewis is also a common Americanization of several similar sounding Jewish surnames, such as Levy and Lewin. LEWIS Surname Meaning & Origin: The Lewis surname is generally derived from the Germanic given name Lewis (Lowis, Lodovicus), meaning reknowned, famous battle, from the Germanic elements hlod ‘fame’ + wig ‘war’.