You can eat pineapple during pregnancy. The logic behind the myth is that bromelain breaks down proteins and since your newly conceived baby is made up of proteins, consuming bromelain can cause bleeding and miscarriage. Eating 1 cup of fresh fruit in a week is usually safe.
Best Answer: i heard that some Asian use pineapple as a traditional method for abortion! so they believe that pineapple can cause miscarriage so don't eat it especially for fist semester! read this article from: http://www.babysnark.com/ttc-supplements...
The other reason why pineapple is thought to help labour start is that eating large amounts of it stimulates your tummy, which could also stimulate your womb (uterus). This, in turn, could get your labour going. But you may not want to risk a tummy upset, which is the last thing you need when labour is approaching.
1 It said ripe papaya are great for you, and pineapple is fine too! for it to have any effect on your cervix, you have to eat them in EXCESS. 2  Don't go around eating 3 or more by yourself and you will be FINE. 3  I have been eating pineapple my WHOLE pregnancy and I am 20 weeks along, no problems.
44. Eating any fruit in a moderate doesn't cause any harm. you can eat one cup of pineapple in a week. Of course, you should always talk to your doctor before adding anything to your pregnancy diet. This article explains the benefits and risks of eating pineapple during pregnancy http://www.momjunction ....
Yes | No Thank you! I found out from the web that pineapple contains Bromelain, which in large quantities would soften the cervix and increase the risk of miscarriage. But unfortunately, I will have to live with the risk because it's the only thing keeping the morning sickness away (8 weeks pregnant).
Eating any fruit in a moderate doesn't cause any harm. you can eat one cup of pineapple in a week. Of course, you should always talk to your doctor before adding anything to your pregnancy diet.
Eating Pineapple is perfectly safe what is of concern is the core. The core of a pineapple does contain high levels of Bromelain which can cause thinning and contractions if you eat a ton of it. You would have to eat quite a few cores to have this effect. posted 11/23/2012 by a BabyCenter Member. Report answer.
The core of a pineapple does contain high levels of Bromelain which can cause thinning and contractions if you eat a ton of it. You would have to eat quite a few cores to have this effect.