Gene therapy is a treatment that involves altering the genes inside your body's cells to stop disease. Genes contain your DNA — the code that controls much of your body's form and function, from making you grow taller to regulating your body systems. Genes that don't work properly can cause disease. Gene therapy holds promise for treating a wide range of diseases, including cancer, cystic fibrosis, heart disease, diabetes, hemophilia and AIDS. Researchers are still studying how and when to use gene therapy. Currently, in the United States, gene therapy is available only as part of a clinical trial.
All cancers are caused by changes to materials in our bodies called “ genes .” These are units of information in every cell of our bodies. Genes tell our bodies which proteins to make based on the type of cell and its needs. Some genes tell our bodies how to fix damage accumulated over time from normal aging, environmental toxins, sun exposure, dietary factors, hormones, and other influences. These damage-controlling genes can repair cells or tell cells when to stop growing and die if there is too much damage to repair. When genes themselves are damaged, they can develop changes called “ mutations. ” When mutations occur in the damage-controlling genes, cells can grow out of control and cause cancer.
The preferred citation for this PDQ summary is: http://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/overview-pdq. Images in this summary are used with permission of the author(s), artist, and/or publisher for use within the PDQ summaries only. 
Gene therapy is an experimental technique that uses genes to treat or prevent disease. In the future, this technique may allow doctors to treat a disorder by inserting a gene into a patient’s cells instead of using drugs or surgery. Researchers are testing several approaches to gene therapy, including: 
BRCA1: A gene that normally acts to restrain the growth of cells in the breast but which, when mutated, predisposes to breast cancer. The gene's full name is breast cancer 1, early onset. The BRCA1 gene belongs to a class of genes known as tumor suppressor genes. In addition to breast cancer, mutations in the BRCA1 gene also increase the risk of ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, and colon cancer. The BRCA1 gene is located on chromosome 17q21 -- the long (q) arm of chromosome 17 at position 21. The symbol BRCA stands for BReast CAncer
Subscribe to our Living With Cancer e-newsletter to stay up to date on cancer topics. The BRCA gene test is a blood test that uses DNA analysis to identify harmful changes (mutations) in either one of the two breast cancer susceptibility genes — BRCA1 and BRCA2. Having a BRCA gene mutation is uncommon. Inherited BRCA gene mutations are responsible for about 5 percent of breast cancers and about 10 to 15 percent of ovarian cancers.
The BRCA gene test is offered only to people who are likely to have an inherited mutation, based on personal or family history, or who have specific types of breast cancer. The BRCA gene test isn't routinely performed on women at average risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Having a BRCA gene mutation is uncommon. Inherited BRCA gene mutations are responsible for about 5 percent of breast cancers and about 10 to 15 percent of ovarian cancers. From a BRCA gene test, you learn whether you carry an inherited BRCA gene mutation and receive an estimate of your personal risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer
A. BRCA1 (breast cancer 1, early onset) is a human gene that belongs to a class of genes known as tumor suppressors, which maintains gene integrity to prevent uncontrolled proliferation (what causes cancer cells to develop). Variations in the gene have been implicated in a number of hereditary cancers, mainly breast, ovarian and prostate. The BRCA family of genes are known today to give a significant increased risk for breast cancer in families.
BRCA breast cancer gene: One of several genetic mutations linked to breast cancer and ovarian cancer. There is now convincing evidence that every woman with a BRCA mutation is at high risk for breast cancer, irrespective of whether she has a family history of breast cancer or not. (That finding is true for all types of breast cancer, not just cases caused by BRCA mutations.). It is recommended that women with BRCA mutations have frequent mammograms and MRI and ultrasound scans to detect breast cancer early.