antenna complex. (cell and molecular biology). A complex of protein molecules found in the thylakoid membrane of chloroplasts that captures and transfers light energy to the photochemical reaction center. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The light-harvesting complex (or antenna complex) is an array of protein and chlorophyll molecules embedded in the thylakoid membrane of plants, which transfer light energy to one chlorophyll a molecule at the reaction center of a photosystem. Each antenna complex has between 250 and 400 pigment molecules and the energy they absorb is shuttled by resonance energy transfer to a specialized chlorophyll-protein complex known as the reaction center of each photosystem.
Light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis at the thylakoid membrane. Photosystem I (PS I) (or plastocyanin: ferredoxin oxidoreductase) is the second photosystem in the photosynthetic light reactions of algae, plants, and some bacteria. Photosystem I (PSI) is an integral membrane protein complex that uses light energy to mediate electron transfer from plastocyanin to ferredoxin. The PS I system comprises more than 110 co-factors, significantly more than photosystem II. These various components have a wide range of functions.
Figure 4. An Antenna Complex. The array of pigment-protein molecules (e.g., chlorophyll) that absorbs light is referred to as an antenna complex. In this simplified figure, energy is absorbed from a photon of light, and transferred stepwise to the reaction center, P700.
Photons of light photoexcite pigment molecules in the antenna complex. Energy from each photon is transferred to an electron, causing an excited state. Photosystem I (PSI) is an integral membrane protein complex that uses light energy to mediate electron transfer from plastocyanin to ferredoxin. The PS I system comprises more than 110 co-factors, significantly more than photosystem II. These various components have a wide range of functions.
Photosystem II makes use of an antenna complex to collect light energy for the first stages of non-cyclic electron transport. This sketch shows some of the context of Photosystem II in the electron transport process in the thylakoid membrane. When a photon reaches the chlorophyll a in the reaction center, that chlorophyll can receive the energy because it absorbs photons of longer wavelengths than the other pigments.
A Role for a Light-Harvesting Antenna Complex of Photosystem II in Photoprotection. High light (beyond what is needed for maximum photosynthesis) is a major plant stress. The first act of photosynthesis is the absorption of photons by antenna molecules (within femtoseconds), leading to the formation of excited chlorophyll molecules (Chl*).
Antenna Complexes for Photosynthesis. The capture of light energy for photosynthesis is enhanced by networks of pigments in the chloroplasts arranged in aggregates on the thylakoids. These aggregates are called antennae complexes. When a photon reaches the chlorophyll a in the reaction center, that chlorophyll can receive the energy because it absorbs photons of longer wavelengths than the other pigments.