0. The national flag of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is predominantly red with a black strip with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side to the lower fly side. The national flag was designed by the Independence Committee and selected to be used as the National Flag in 1962. 2 Answers. 0. The national flag of the Republic of Trinidad and TobagoThe national flag of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is predominantly red with a black strip with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side to the lower fly side.
The National Birds of Trinidad and Tobago are the Scarlet Ibis (Trinidad-Top Left), and the Cocrico (Tobago-Top Right). The Scarlet Ibis (Eudocimus Ruber) is a species of … ibis that occurs in tropical South America and Trinidad and Tobago. The largest habitat of the Scarlet Ibis is the Caroni Swamp in central Trinidad. This beautiful bird is brown when young and, its colour changes to red when it is mature. The Cocrico (Red tailed Guan or Rufus-tailed Chachalaca) is a native of Tobago and Venezuela, but is not found in Trinidad. It is the only game bird on the island of Tobago, and is referred to as the Tobago Pheasant. The island nation is in the Caribbean Sea, just off the northern coast of Venezuela in South America. Of the two islands, Trinidad is the larger and closer to Venezuela, and h … as substantial oil production. Tobago is primarily a tourism location. 8 people found this useful.
from Britain. The Trinidad and Tobago Flag has a red background with a black band diagonally placed across the upper left corner to the bottom right corner. The black band in the flag has white borders. The black band in the Trinidad and Tobago National Flag represents the industrious and hard-working nature of the people of Trinidad and Tobago. The white color of the borders of the black band stands for the sea surrounding the country.The red color is symbolic of the vitality of the land and also of the people. The flag currently representing Trinidad and Tobago was officially adopted in the year 1962.
Trinidad and Tobago /ˌtrɪnɨdaed ˌtrɪnɨdæd ənd/ , tɵˈbeɪɡoʊ officially The republic Of trinidad And, tobago is a twin island country off the northern edge Of South, america lying just off the coast of Northeastern venezuela and south Of. grenada Trinidad and Tobago is known for its Carnival and is the birthplace of steelpan, limbo, and the music styles of calypso, soca and chutney. Trinidad and Tobago is one of the most biodiverse nations in the Caribbean and has a wide variety of flora and fauna.
Trinidadian flags flying at the University of the West Indies in Saint Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago. The flag of Trinidad and Tobago is red with a white-edged black diagonal band from the upper hoist side to the lower fly side. In blazon, Gules, a bend Sable fimbriated Argent. The flag of Trinidad and Tobago was adopted upon independence from the United Kingdom on August 31, 1962. The flag was chosen by the independence committee of 1962. Red, black and white symbolize fire (the sun, representing courage), earth (representing dedication) and water (representing purity and equality)
The Trinidad and Tobago Flag has a red background with a black band diagonally placed across the upper left corner to the bottom right corner. The flag currently representing Trinidad and Tobago was officially adopted in the year 1962.
Advertiser Links. Trinidad and Tobago Flag Meaning: The red base represents the vigor of the land in Trinidad and Tobago, the friendliness and courage of its people, and the sun. The black represents the unity and strength of the people, as well as the natural wealth of the country. Proportions: 2:3. Trinidad and Tobago Flag Description: The flag of Trinidad and Tobago consists of a red base with an off centered black diagonal stripe originating in the top left corner and running across the flag. The black stripe is bordered on both sides by a thin white stripe