n. the relationship of a person (called the agent) who acts on behalf of another person, company, or government, known as the principal. Agency may arise when an employer (principal) and employee (agent), asks someone to make a delivery or names someone as an agent in a contract. 
agent. n. a person who is authorized to act for another (the agent's principal) through employment, by contract or apparent authority. The importance is that the agent can bind the principal by contract or create liability if he/she causes injury while in the scope of the agency. An agent is an attorney who transacts the business of another attorney. 2. The agent owes to his principal the unremitted exertions of his skill and ability, and that all his transactions in that character, shall be distinguished by punctuality, honor and integrity. Lee's Dict. of Practice.
1 Trends. 2  a person who acts on behalf of another person, group, business, government, etc; representative. 3  a person or thing that acts or has the power to act. 4  a phenomenon, substance, or organism that exerts some force or effect ⇒ a chemical agent. noun. 1  a person who acts on behalf of another person, group, business, government, etc; representative. 2  a person or thing that acts or has the power to act. 3  a phenomenon, substance, or organism that exerts some force or effect ⇒ a chemical agent.
An agent is defined as someone or something that makes something happen. A bee taking pollen from flower to flower is an example of the bee being an agent for pollination. The definition of an agent is a person or group of people that represent another person or that takes action for other people. Someone who schedules appearances for a musical group is an example of an agent.
1 a person who acts on behalf of another person, group, business, government, etc; representative. 2  a person or thing that acts or has the power to act. 3  a phenomenon, substance, or organism that exerts some force or effect ⇒ a chemical agent. noun. 1  a person who acts on behalf of another person, group, business, government, etc; representative. 2  a person or thing that acts or has the power to act. 3  a phenomenon, substance, or organism that exerts some force or effect ⇒ a chemical agent.
agent. n. 1. a person who acts on behalf of another person, group, business, government, etc; representative. 2. a person or thing that acts or has the power to act. 3. a phenomenon, substance, or organism that exerts some force or effect: a chemical agent. 4. the means by which something occurs or is achieved; instrument: wind is an agent of plant pollination. 5. 
Full Definition of AGENT. 1. : one that acts or exerts power. 2. a: something that produces or is capable of producing an effect: an active or efficient cause b: a chemically, physically, or biologically active principle. 3. : a means or instrument by which a guiding intelligence achieves a result. 4. Medical Definition of AGENT. 1. : something that produces or is capable of producing an effect. 2. : a chemically, physically, or biologically active principle—see oxidizing agent, reducing agent.
DEFINITION of 'Agent'. 1. An individual or firm that places securities transactions for clients. 2. A person licensed by a state to sell insurance. 3. A securities salesperson who represents a broker-dealer or issuer when selling or trying to sell securities to the investing public. Next Up. 