Cooking a Beef Tenderloin. Raw tenderloin Photo Credit Lilyana Vynogradova/iStock/Getty Images. In a 425 degree Fahrenheit oven, it will take a beef tenderloin about 45 minutes to cook. An hour before you cook your beef tenderloin, remove it from the refrigerator and allow it to come to room temperature. Place the seasoned beef tenderloin on a roasting rack set inside a shallow pan and carefully place the pan on the upper middle rack of your oven. Roast it until the thickest part of the beef tenderloin registers at 125 F with a kitchen thermometer.
1 Pour soy sauce and melted butter over the tenderloin. 2  Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes, then turn the roast over, and continue cooking 35 to 40 minutes, basting occasionally until the internal temperature of the roast is at 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) for medium. 3  Or, cook to your desired degree of doneness. 1 Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes, then turn the roast over, and continue cooking 35 to 40 minutes, basting occasionally until the internal temperature of the roast is at 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) for medium. 2  Or, cook to your desired degree of doneness. 3  Let meat rest for 10 to 15 minutes before slicing
Place the tenderloin on a roasting rack. Sprinkle generously with kosher salt and sugar, which will deepen the savory flavors. Press the crushed peppercorns all over the surface of the meat. Insert a meat thermometer and place in the oven until the beef registers 120 to 125 degrees F for medium-rare/rare. Beef will probably cook in 20 to 25 minutes depending on its temp before it goes in the oven. 
Roast the tenderloin until an instant-read meat thermometer indicates an internal temperature of 135 degrees for medium rare or 145 degrees for medium. A two to three pound tenderloin will take 30 to 40 minutes to reach medium rare and 45 to 50 minutes to reach medium. Remove the beef tenderloin from the refrigerator 60 to 75 minutes before you roast it. The roast cooks more quickly and evenly when first warmed to room temperature.
Place meat on grill rack over heat. Cover the grill.) Remove steaks from grill; cover and let stand for 5 minutes. For more tenderloin steak recipes, see: Grilled Steak and Peppers Grilled Beef Fillet with Portobello Relish Beef Tenderloins with Wine Sauce Try filet mignon! Our best filet mignon cooking tips. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
Let stand for 15 minutes before slicing. The temperature of the meat will rise during this time (this is reflected in the timings below). Untitled Document Cut Description How to use it Whole tenderloin roast, trimmed This is a long, cylindrical, boneless cut from the loin. Usually about 4 to 6 pounds. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
Start with beef tenderloin steaks cut 3/4 inch to 1 inch thick (1 inch for grilling). Trim fat from steaks. Season as desired. Timings below are based on meat removed directly from the refrigerator. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
It is important that you allow the beef tenderloin plenty of time to rest after cooking and before carving to allow the meat to firm up to the optimal texture. Carving the roast too soon will produce soft and flabby pieces, while giving a long rest of 30 minutes will greatly improve the texture of the finished meat. Place the seasoned beef tenderloin on a roasting rack set inside a shallow pan and carefully place the pan on the upper middle rack of your oven. Roast it until the thickest part of the beef tenderloin registers at 125 F with a kitchen thermometer.
Before you cook a beef tenderloin, all you'll need to season it is a little olive oil, salt and pepper. Rub olive oil onto the tenderloin and sprinkle it with salt and pepper, pressing the seasonings into the meat as you go. While the tenderloin is cooking, prepare a sauce to serve alongside the beef for added flavor. Place the seasoned beef tenderloin on a roasting rack set inside a shallow pan and carefully place the pan on the upper middle rack of your oven. Roast it until the thickest part of the beef tenderloin registers at 125 F with a kitchen thermometer.