The Goldendoodle is a cross between a Golden Retriever and a Poodle (usually a Standard or Miniature). At their best, they are intelligent, friendly, and affectionate. They come in three sizes: miniature (weighing 15 to 30 pounds), medium (30 to 45 pounds), and standard (45 to more than 100 pounds). If you choose to purchase a Goldendoodle, select a breeder who has done the health testing to ensure that her puppies won’t carry the genetic diseases common to Poodles and Golden Retrievers. If you are going to pay several hundred dollars (or even $1,000 or more) for a dog, you should get your money’s worth.
1 According to PuppyFind.com, they have over 600 classifieds that range anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 2  The average puppy here is around 5 to 8 weeks old. 3  BarCKennels.com, located in South Carolina, has goldendoodle puppies available that range from $900 to $1,200 for a F1. 1 Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 2  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 3  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 4  If you do not mind adopting an older dog, they can be adopted for less than $150.
The Goldendoodle is a cross between a Golden Retriever and a Poodle, a cross that originated in North America in the late 1990 s. Poodle crossbreeds are meant to produce a dog with mixed traits and the Poodle s signature nonshedding coat. The Goldendoodle has an average shoulder height of 20-29 in (51-74 cm) and weighs 45-90 lbs (20-40 kg); mixes with Miniature Poodles or Toy Poodles tend to be smaller. As a crossbreed, the Goldendoodle has a wide variety of appearances.
1 Be very wary of cheaper dogs. 2  Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 3  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 4  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 1 Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 2  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 3  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 4  If you do not mind adopting an older dog, they can be adopted for less than $150.
The cost of a Goldendoodle puppy varies depending on the breeder’s locale and whether he has obtained health clearances on the pup’s parents. The puppy you buy should have been raised in a clean home environment, from parents with health clearances. If you choose to purchase a Goldendoodle, select a breeder who has done the health testing to ensure that her puppies won’t carry the genetic diseases common to Poodles and Golden Retrievers. If you are going to pay several hundred dollars (or even $1,000 or more) for a dog, you should get your money’s worth.
RE: how much does a goldendoodle puppy cost? i already know you can adopt one for around 150, but i want to know how much should someone expect to pay, if they don&#39;t adopt, I&#39;m talking the intitial purchase price. Depends on what kind of person you are buying one from. I have neighbors who got 2 of them. The brother bought his for $850 and the sister bought one from another person for $400. The dogs look exactly alike and have very similar tempermants. This was all within 2 weeks of each other.
The Goldendoodle is a cross between a purebred Poodle and a purebred Golden Retriever. Goldendoodles can also be created by breeding a Goldendoodle to a non-related Poodle if the breeder is trying to achieve various coat colors. Shedding is minimal with first generation Goldendoodles. The Golden Retriever/Poodle cross, otherwise known as the Goldendoodle is not a purebred dog. They are a mixture of two breeds, so there is no set standard for sizing when it comes to the dog itself. The best thing to do is to look at the sire and dam of the puppies so view how big they are.
1 On average, a goldendoodle puppy that is under the age of 12 weeks can cost anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 2  According to PuppyFind.com, they have over 600 classifieds that range anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 3  The average puppy here is around 5 to 8 weeks old. 1 Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 2  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 3  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter. 4  If you do not mind adopting an older dog, they can be adopted for less than $150.
Goldendoodles are commonly bred from a golden retriever/standard poodle cross and typically will range in size from 65-75 lbs. There are now breeders who offer a mini-doodle, with the poodle parent being a smaller poodle. The Golden Retriever/Poodle cross, otherwise known as the Goldendoodle is not a purebred dog. They are a mixture of two breeds, so there is no set standard for sizing when it comes to the dog itself. The best thing to do is to look at the sire and dam of the puppies so view how big they are.