The descending colon is located on the left side of the large intestine, extending from the bend below the spleen to the sigmoid colon. The descending colon stores the food to be emptied into the rectum. The colon is held in place by peritoneum, a thin layer of tissue that supports the abdominal organs. Descending colon. The colon is part of the large intestine, the final part of the digestive system. Its function is to reabsorb fluids and process waste products from the body and prepare for its elimination. The colon consists of four parts: descending colon, ascending colon, transverse colon, and sigmoid colon
It is a section of the large intestine. It is a part of the colon that passes down through the left hypochondrium. It also passes through the lumbar areas and along the side of the left kidney ultimately connecting with the sigmoid colon. 
The ascending colon is one of the four major regions of the colon, which is itself one of the parts of our large intestine. The ascending colon carries feces from the cecum superiorly along the right side of our abdominal cavity to the transverse colon. In the ascending colon, bacteria digest the transitory fecal matter in order to release vitamins.
The colon is located in the abdominal cavity and is divided into the following parts: the cecum, the ascending colon, the transverse, the descending colon, the sigmoid, the rectum, and the anus. The right colon includes the cecum and ascending colon. The left colon includes the transverse segment to the sigmoid. 
The colon is also called the large intestine. The ileum (last part of the small intestine) connects to the cecum (first part of the colon) in the lower right abdomen. The rest of the colon is divided into four parts: • The ascending colon travels up the right side of the abdomen. • The transverse colon runs across the abdomen. • The descending colon travels down the left abdomen. • The sigmoid colon is a short curving of the colon, just before the rectum. The colon removes water, salt, and some nutrients forming stool. 
Anatomy The colon is the main portion of the large intestine and is divided into four regions: the ascending, transverse, descending, and sigmoid colon.... Click to read more below. The transverse colon is the longest region of the colon and is located between the ascending colon and descending colon. It is named for the fact that it crosses the abdominal cavity transversely from the right side to left side just below the stomach. 
The ascending colon (or right colon) is the beginning part of the colon. It is usually located on the right side of the body, extending from the cecum upward. Although the colon is a continuous structure, the piece that is considered the ascending colon ends where the colon bends, just below the liver and gallbladder. The colon, also called the large intestine, removes water, some nutrients, and electrolytes from partially digested food. This valve separates the small intestine from the cecum and prevents material from flowing back into the small intestine. At the top of the ascending colon, the colon abruptly bends to the left, forming the right colic flexure (also called the hepatic flexure).
The ascending colon is the part of the colon located between the cecum and the transverse colon. The ascending colon is smaller in caliber than the cecum from where it starts. 
The first and middle parts of the colon. The proximal colon includes the cecum (a pouch that connects the small intestine to the colon), the ascending colon (the right side of the colon), and the transverse colon (the part of the colon that goes across the body between the right and left sides of the colon). PubMed Health Glossary.