Definition of WOLFFIAN DUCT. : the duct of the mesonephros that persists in the female chiefly as part of a vestigial organ and in the male as the duct system leaving the testis and including the epididymis, vas deferens, seminal vesicle, and ejaculatory duct. ADVERTISEMENT. Kaspar Friedrich Wolff
The mesonephric duct (also known as Wolffian duct, archinephric duct, Leydig's duct and nephric duct) is a paired organ found in mammals including humans during embryogenesis. In the female, with the absence of anti-Muellerian müllerian hormone secretion by the sertoli cells and Subsequent muellerian, müllerian Apoptosis the wolffian, duct regresses and inclusions. May persist the Epoophoron'and skene s glands may. be present
The mesonephric duct connects the primitive kidney, the mesonephros, to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs. In the female, with the absence of anti-Muellerian müllerian hormone secretion by the sertoli cells and Subsequent muellerian, müllerian Apoptosis the wolffian, duct regresses and inclusions. May persist the Epoophoron'and skene s glands may. be present
Wolffian ducts develop into male sex organs, and Mullerian ducts develop into female sex organs. Which sex organs develop depends on the presence of a Y chromosome and the male hormone testosterone and anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH). If the embryo has both an X and a Y chromosome and produces the two hormones, then the testosterone will stimulate the Wolffian duct to develop male sex organs, including the vas deferens and the seminal vesicles. If there's no Y chromosome, but two X chromosomes instead, then the embryo is female.
Male development. When the ducts are exposed to testosterone during embryogenesis, male sexual differentiation occurs: the Wolffian duct develops into the rete testis, the efferent ducts, the epididymis, the vas deferens and the seminal vesicles. The prostate is formed separately from the urogenital sinus. In both the male and the female the Wolffian duct develops into the trigone of the urinary bladder.
The Mullerian duct is present in the embryo of both genders. In females, this pair of ducts will develop into the organs of reproduction. In males, these ducts will disappear. However, the adjoining ducts, known as the Wolffian ducts, will develop and help to form the male reproductive organs. The Mullerian duct is a duct, or tube, that is present in the human embryo. This duct extends down the sides of the structure known as the urogenital ridge, a structure that later develops to help form the external genitalia, and ends at the Mullerian eminence, a structure that helps form the urinary and genital organs.
In both the male and the female the Wolffian duct develops into the trigone of urinary bladder, a part of the bladder wall. In the female, with the absence of anti-Muellerian müllerian hormone secretion by the sertoli cells and Subsequent muellerian, müllerian Apoptosis the wolffian, duct regresses and inclusions. May persist the Epoophoron'and skene s glands may. be present
As an embryo develops, it acquires both Wolffian and Mullerian ducts. Wolffian ducts develop into male sex organs; mullerian ducts develop into female sex organs. 
The Wolffian duct (also known as the mesonephric duct) is one of the paired embryogenic tubules that drain the primitive kidney (mesonephros) to the cloaca. In both the male and the female the Wolffian duct develops into the trigone of the urinary bladder.
In a male, it develops into a system of connected organs between the efferent ducts of the testis and the prostate, namely the epididymis, the vas deferens, and the seminal vesicle. The prostate forms from the urogenital sinus and the efferent ducts form from the mesonephric tubules. In the female, with the absence of anti-Muellerian müllerian hormone secretion by the sertoli cells and Subsequent muellerian, müllerian Apoptosis the wolffian, duct regresses and inclusions. May persist the Epoophoron'and skene s glands may. be present