The Department of Energy recommends having your tank-based hot water heater set to 120 degrees Fahrenheit for most people, but if you’ve never adjusted the temperature on your hot water heater, it’s probably set to 140 degrees, which is the default setting from most manufacturers. Annual energy costs for a hot water heater vary from $100 to $200, so this simple change could save you anywhere from $6 to $20 per year. It also keeps you from getting scalded if you accidentally turn up the hot water too much.
Measure the beginning temperature of your hot water using a thermometer at the tap farthest from the water heater. Thermostat dials are often inaccurate. 2.) Mark the setting, then turn down the thermostat. Mark the beginning temperature on your water heater thermostat with a marker, and then turn the thermostat down. 3.) Measure and adjust. Wait a couple of hours, and then measure the water temperature again at the farthest tap from the water heater. 4.) Mark the new temperature. If you are satisfied with the temperature, mark the new temperature on the water heater thermostat with a marker, so that you can make adjustments in the future if necessary. 5.) Turn down or off when away.
Very hot water temperature can cause burns with great rapidity, and as such, care in setting your hot water heater is required. Setting the hot water temperature lower also means a savings in energy bills for heating the home's water in many cases. i work for a hotel that has 70 rooms. i set the temp to 130 and after five or six rooms of use, the water goes cold, leaving the others without hot water and me with having to refund room stays! what is the ideal temp for a hotel this size, that on average, houses 10 to 30 rooms daily.
This is difficult to answer due to variables in pressure, flow rates, diameter of your water pipes, and the incoming water temperature. However, the average home uses 1-3 gallons per minute. It is unusual for any family to use over 3 gallons of water per minute. 
Answer to 1: The amount of gas consumed to set the temperature of your tankless water heater higher is negligible. Unlike a tank water heater, your tankless heater does not consume gas when water is not in demand. Since the draw of hot water is reduced, the amount of gas to heat the smaller flow is also reduced. For washing dishes or laundry, the higher temperature will cost you more money as the temperature may not be offset with cold water.
How much does turning down the temperature save you? Turning down the temperature 10 degrees Fahrenheit on your hot water heater saves 3 to 5 percent on energy costs, so a drop from 140 F to 120 F saves you 6 to 10 percent. Annual energy costs for a hot water heater vary from $100 to $200, so this simple change could save you anywhere from $6 to $20 per year. It also keeps you from getting scalded if you accidentally turn up the hot water too much.
I think the hot water temperature problem at a large institution is more of a heat recovery situation than a thermostat setting problem. If I only have a hot water tank that holds 200 gallons, for example, there's every chance the fifth or sixth bather is going to get nothing but cold water. i work for a hotel that has 70 rooms. i set the temp to 130 and after five or six rooms of use, the water goes cold, leaving the others without hot water and me with having to refund room stays! what is the ideal temp for a hotel this size, that on average, houses 10 to 30 rooms daily.
For a tankless heater, this means that there is a smaller draw of hot water at 125 degrees and a larger draw of cold water. Since the draw of hot water is reduced, the amount of gas to heat the smaller flow is also reduced. For washing dishes or laundry, the higher temperature will cost you more money as the temperature may not be offset with cold water.
Some pediatricians instead suggest setting the hot water temperature at 120° F (48.88° C). With this water temperature, a child would have to run water over the same place for ten minutes prior to receiving a severe burn. i work for a hotel that has 70 rooms. i set the temp to 130 and after five or six rooms of use, the water goes cold, leaving the others without hot water and me with having to refund room stays! what is the ideal temp for a hotel this size, that on average, houses 10 to 30 rooms daily.
Fuel sources can be propane, natural gas or electricity. They are the most common way to heat water in the United States. Residential tank water heaters typically store between 20 and 80 gallons of hot water hot throughout, usually at the factory setting of 120°F. The temperature can be adjusted up or down by a control on the unit