V(rms)=sqrt(P(avg)/R) The true RMS voltage is measured using the following method. P(avg) is the average power dissipated in a resistor R when a RMS voltage V(rms) is applied. The power is measured by a thermistor and the scale of the meter is calibrated as a ratio of temperature to resistance. This is true for any waveform and frequencies. Note that most meters you use are not true RMS meters. If it is not you will get false results from them if the load on a circuit is reactive such as a motor or if the wave shape is not a pure sine wave. True RMS instruments can correctly resolve various phase relationships and wave shapes to give you a true RMS reading of voltage and current.
(March 2010). The root mean square (abbreviated RMS or rms), also known as the quadratic mean, in statistics is a statistical measure defined as the square root of the mean of the squares of a sample. 
Best Answer: To understand the meaning of true Root-Mean Square (RMS) one need to go to its mathematical and a more pragmatic physical definition. Since we are dealing with a changing quantity we need to compute its average value over a period, however it also has its positive and negative components. If it is not you will get false results from them if the load on a circuit is reactive such as a motor or if the wave shape is not a pure sine wave. True RMS instruments can correctly resolve various phase relationships and wave shapes to give you a true RMS reading of voltage and current.
A true root mean square (RMS) multimeter is a measurement device that measures the effective level of alternating current (AC) or voltage. Root mean square is a mathematical term that suggests effective level. Other multimeters may be designed to measure just the average level. The true RMS level is defined as 0.707 of the peak level for a pure sine wave. When the waveform is not a pure sine wave, the relationship between peak and RMS will not be a scale of 1:0.707. Ad. There is a simple relationship between the VDC and the volts root mean square (Vrms).
A true-rms device (rms = root mean square) is one of three tools that can measure alternating current (ac) or ac voltage: 1  True-rms digital multimeters (or clamp meter). 2  Average-responding digital multimeter (or clamp meter). A more sophisticated true-rms meter can accurately measure both pure waves and the more complex nonsinusoidal waves. Waveforms can be distorted by nonlinear loads such as variable speed drives or computers. An averaging meter attempting to measure distorted waves can be up to 40% low or 10% high in its calculations.
RMS stands for root mean square. In electronics, it is the so-called DC equivalent voltage of a sine wave. It is the amount of DC voltage that would be applied to a resistance … heating device to give the same heating as the AC voltage it measures. RMS stands for Root of the Means Squared, and is a mathematical method of defining the operating voltage of a sine wave power source. Typical home lighting and outlet volt … age presently is 120 VAC (volts alternating current), 60 Hz.
AND this is called the Root Mean Square Current or RMS Current. For AC currents that are graphically represented by a sine wave, the RMS current will always be 0.707 times the peak current. With that said, we can calculate current by multiplying peak measurements by 0.707 if the current is a perfect sine wave. Average current values often are 40% less than True RMS values and that could mean the difference between blown circuit breakers, malfunctioning motors, or worst case, potential fire hazards. True RMS multimeters only cost about 20-30% more than the alternative. How much is an accurate current reading worth to you?
The normal alternating current mains power supply comprises a sinusoidal waveform that has symmetrical positive and negative half cycles. The RMS (Root Mean Square) value of an alternating current is measured in terms of the direct (dc) current that produces the same heating effect in the same resistance. The FORM FACTOR of a waveform: = RMS value / Average value. The PEAK or CREST FACTOR of a waveform: = peak or max.value / RMS value. 
Distortion of a waveform. True RMS Multimeter. When measuring the value of an alternating current signal it is often necessary to convert the signal into a direct current signal of equivalent value which is known as the root mean square (RMS) value. The true RMS value is actually proportional to the square root of the average of the square of the curve, and not to the average of the absolute value of the curve.