1 Directly under the outer crust is the mantle, the largest layer of the earth. 2  The mantle is extremely hot, but for the most part, it stays in solid form because the pressure deep inside the planet is so great that the material can't melt. 
The interior of Earth, similar to the other terrestrial planets, is chemically divided into layers. The mantle is a layer between the crust and the outer core. Earth's mantle is a silicate rocky shell with an average thickness of 2,886 kilometres (1,793 mi). The mantle makes up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is predominantly solid but in geological time it behaves as a very viscous fluid. The mantle encloses the hot core rich in iron and nickel, which makes up about 15% of Earth's volume.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There's the comparison of the crust of the earth to an egg, if it was the same size the shell would be much thinner. The mantle lies below the lithosphere, or crust, which is composed of two general types of rocks, basaltic ocean plates and continental, less dense rock
Data about P waves and S waves traveling through the mantle has been used to map out convection in the mantle. Waves tell researchers whether the mantle is more or less dense than average, hotter or cooler than average and whether it is rising and falling. The Earth releases internal heat by convecting. Thanks to earthquakes, the seimic waves they give off and the instruments used to gather data abouth such events, we now know the chemical composition, temperature, density and depth of the layer's of the Earth's inside. The earth is divided in to four layers: CRUST, MANTLE, OUTER CORE and INNER CORE.
The mantle lies between the core below and the crust above. The terrestrial planets (Earth, Venus, Mars and Mercury), Earth's Moon, two of Jupiter 's moons (Io and Europa) and the asteroid Vesta each have a mantle made of silicate rock. The mantle makes up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is predominantly solid but in geological time it behaves as a very viscous fluid. The mantle encloses the hot core rich in iron and nickel, which makes up about 15
Convection currents are caused by the inner core, which is the  Inner layer of the Earth.    Convection currents begin due to the extreme heat of the inner  core. The … inner core heats up the very bottom of the mantle. The  heated up substances within the mantle has a higher temperature  than those higher in the mantle and closer to the surface of the  earth. 
The mantle, sometimes called the asthenosphere, the layer between the solid surface rocks and the molten core acts as a support for the crust and also insulates it from the molten magma below. Best Answer: There's the comparison of the crust of the earth to an egg, if it was the same size the shell would be much thinner. The mantle lies below the lithosphere, or crust, which is composed of two general types of rocks, basaltic ocean plates and continental, less dense rock
Keywords: earth. Hannah Bentham. answered on 18 Jun 2013: The Earth’s interior is made up of 4 basic zones: the Crust (down to about 70 km), the Mantle (70-2981 km), the liquid Outer Core (2891-5154km) and then the solid Inner Core.
The mantle is the thick layer of hot, solid rock between the Earth's crust and the molten iron core. It makes up the bulk of the Earth, accounting for two-thirds of the planet's mass. The mantle starts about 30 kilometers down and is about 2900 kilometers thick. Let's take a look at six different aspects of the mantle. Earth has the same recipe of elements as the Sun and the other planets (ignoring hydrogen and helium, which have escaped Earth's gravity). Subtracting the iron in the core, we can calculate that the mantle is a mix of magnesium, silicon, iron, and oxygen that roughly matches the composition of garnet.