Yogurt. Yogurt is one of the most familiar sources of probiotics -- good bacteria that keep a healthy balance in your gut. Studies suggest that probiotics can help ease lactose intolerance. They also may help tame gas, diarrhea, and other digestive problems. Milk With Probiotics. One of the easiest ways to get probiotics into your diet is by adding acidophilus milk. It's milk that's been fermented with bacteria. Sometimes it's labeled sweet acidophilus milk. Buttermilk -- usually milk that's cultured with lactic acid bacteria -- is also rich in probiotics.
Soy naturally contains some probiotic benefits, but new soy milk products on the market have added extra live cultures. Look for labels that say aâ live and active culturesa culturesâ to. be sure 
Lactose free products are NOT the same as dairy free products. If an acidophilus supplement is called lactose free it means it does not contain any milk sugar, but it may contain isolated, lactose-free milk protein-so it would NOT be dairy free. Differences that can effect your health. A dairy free probiotic means it does not contain either lactose (milk sugars) or milk proteins. So really-the term milk-free' does not really define your needs sufficiently. You need to know if you require dairy free or lactose free. Dairy free is a more encompassing state than simply one not containing lactose. Turtle Mountain's So Delicous dairy free milk does not contain probiotics although they are dairy and lactose free. However the So Delicous soy yogurts and coconut milk yogurts do contain live cultures but they do not contain L. acidophilus. Shame because they sound delicous!
You can also incorporate probiotics into your diet through dairy-free foods. Yogurt and kefir contain live probiotic cultures, such as bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, but dairy-free versions of yogurt and kefir made from almond, soy or coconut milk and can be found at your local supermarket and health food store. Probiotics are good bacteria that help balance bacteria in the colon and can boost overall gastrointestinal health. Probiotics can be taken as supplements and are found naturally in certain foods. If you follow a dairy-free diet, you can still take probiotics.
To ensure you're selecting only probiotic supplements that don't contain dairy or lactose, read the nutrition label carefully. The following words indicate that a product contains lactose, or milk sugar: milk, lactose, whey, curds, milk by-products, dry milk solids and nonfat dry milk powder. Probiotics are good bacteria that help balance bacteria in the colon and can boost overall gastrointestinal health. Probiotics can be taken as supplements and are found naturally in certain foods. If you follow a dairy-free diet, you can still take probiotics.
Where to Find Probiotics. Probiotics are found in yogurt and other fermented dairy products like kefir, naturally aged cheese like Gouda, fermented soybean foods like miso and tempeh, naturally fermented sour pickles and cabbage like sauerkraut and kimchi, sourdough bread, and the fermented tea kombucha, says Newgent.
You don't necessarily need probiotics — a type of good bacteria — to be healthy. However, these microorganisms may help with digestion and offer protection from harmful bacteria, just as the existing good bacteria in your body already do. Prebiotics are nondigestible carbohydrates that act as food for probiotics. When probiotics and prebiotics are combined, they form a synbiotic. Fermented dairy products, such as yogurt and kefir, are considered synbiotic because they contain live bacteria and the fuel they need to thrive. Probiotics are found in foods such as yogurt, while prebiotics are found in whole grains, bananas, onions, garlic, honey and artichoke