muscles of facial expression. Thin muscles that insert into the skin of the face; all are innervated by the facial nerve (CN VII). Scalp: frontalis and occipitalis muscles. Ear: anterior, posterior, and superior auricular muscles. Eye: orbicularis oculi. 
The muscles of facial expression are located in the subcutaneous tissue, originating from bone or fascia, and inserting onto the skin. By contracting, the muscles pull on the skin and exert their effects. 
Structure [edit]. The facial muscles are subcutaneous (just under the skin) muscles that control facial expression. They generally originate from the surface of the skull bone (rarely the fascia), and insert on the skin of the face. When they contract, the skin moves. Damage to the facial nerve results in facial paralysis of the muscles of facial expression on the involved side. Paralysis is the loss of voluntary muscle action; the facial nerve has become damaged permanently or temporarily.
A facial expression is one or more motions or positions of the muscles beneath the skin of the face. According to one set of controversial theories, these movements convey the emotional state of an individual to observers. Facial expressions are a form of nonverbal communication. Facial expressions are vital to social communication between humans. They are caused by the movement of muscles that connect to the skin and fascia in the face. These muscles move the skin, creating lines and folds and causing the movement of facial features, such as the mouth and eyebrows.
Facial expression. A facial expression is one or more motions or positions of the muscles beneath the skin of the face. These movements convey the emotional state of an individual to observers. Facial expressions are a form of nonverbal communication. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: facial expression (Noun). The expression or countenance that seems to an onlooker to be represented by the appearance of a person's face, resulting from specific use of that person's facial muscles.
The facial muscles are a group of striated skeletal muscles innervated by the facial nerve (cranial nerve VII) that, among other things, control facial expression. These muscles are also called mimetic muscles. Damage to the facial nerve results in facial paralysis of the muscles of facial expression on the involved side. Paralysis is the loss of voluntary muscle action; the facial nerve has become damaged permanently or temporarily.
muscles of facial expression. Synonyms: facial muscles. The definition information for muscles of facial expression is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students
These muscles of facial expression are uniques as they generally originate from the skull, however unlike most skeletal muscles which insert to another bone, the muscles of facial expression insert into the superficial fascia and dermis of the skin and as a result when they contract, the skin moves. There are other important muscles located on or in the head such as the muscles of the tongue and throat and the extrinsic muscles of the eyes responsible for controlling the movement of our eyes, which we will not be discussing here. Muscles of Facial Expression.