At the restaurant we dust the ribs up to a day in advance. Place ribs on grill and cook for 1 1/2 to 2 hours. About 10 minutes before you remove the ribs from the grill, mop them with sauce. When you take them off the grill, mop again with sauce and sprinkle some more Magic Dust on them. Serve immediately. Serves 4 very hungry people or you can cut the rack in half to. 
Cook 'Em... 1  Place the ribs on the grill, opposite side of the fire, bone side down, to begin cooking. 2  Avoid the ribs touching. 3  When cooking beef ribs on a charcoal grill, never let the meat overlap the fire. 4  You cannot undo crispy or burnt barbecue beef ribs! 1 To barbecue beef ribs on a charcoal grill, you control the temperature with the bottom/side vents on your grill. 2  Adjust the top vent to half open, and leave it alone. 3  Put a big ol' handful of hardwood chips or chunks (pre-soaked in water for about an hour) on the coals.
Mix well. Place the ribs in a shallow baking dish and pour the marinade over them. Make sure the ribs are evenly coated. Refrigerate for a two to four hours. Preheat grill and prepare for indirect grilling. When the grill is hot remove ribs from marinade and place on grill to cook indirectly. Discard marinade. 
Place the ribs on direct heat and sear on each side for five minutes. Discard the extra marinade. Move the ribs to indirect heat (For a gas grill, turn the heat off on one side and move the ribs to that side. For a charcoal grill, push the coals to one side and move the ribs to the side with no coals.). Close the lid and grill for 30 minutes. Wrap the ribs in foil and continue grilling for 2 hours. If you have a gas grill, this just means turning off the burner(s) on one side. If you have a charcoal grill, you just need to push the coals to one side. First using direct heat, sear the ribs on all sides. Then using indirect heat, let the ribs cook in a covered 275-degree
1 Grill your ribs for 3 hours bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 to 60 minutes. 3  Same as with baby backs, you can an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. 1 Grill the ribs for 2 hours, bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 minutes. 3  Don't be afraid to add an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet.
3. Start cooking the ribs. Put them meat side down in the oven or on the grill and close the door or lid. Cook the ribs for 3 hours without disturbing them. During this time the juices will start to flow and the meat will become succulent and tender. 1  Make sure the temperature stays constant at 225 degrees. 1. Preheat the oven or grill. Beef ribs need to be cooked low and slow, and you can do it either in the oven or on the grill. Preheat to 225 degrees Fahrenheit (107 degrees Celsius). 1  If you're cooking on the grill, you can smoke the ribs by adding applewood chips to the coals. 2  Choose hickory, pecan, sweet maple or cherry
1 Place the ribs on the grill, opposite side of the fire, bone side down, to begin cooking. 2  Avoid the ribs touching. 3  When cooking beef ribs on a charcoal grill, never let the meat overlap the fire. 4  You cannot undo crispy or burnt barbecue beef ribs! 5  Close the lid and... 1 To barbecue beef ribs on a charcoal grill, you control the temperature with the bottom/side vents on your grill. 2  Adjust the top vent to half open, and leave it alone. 3  Put a big ol' handful of hardwood chips or chunks (pre-soaked in water for about an hour) on the coals.