Please take this short, anonymous survey to help us improve the DG home page. Categorized under General. An apical meristem (embryonic tissue), or growing tip, is at the tip of a plant\'s stem or root. Its main function is to begin growth of new cells in young seedlings at the tips of roots and stems. Apical meristems contain several layers. 
meristem. (mĕr`istĕm') , a specialized section of plant tissue characterized by cell division and growth. Much of the mature plant's growth is provided by meristems. Apical meristems found at the tips of stems and roots increase the length of these sections. In one type of lateral meristem, called cambium, or vascular cambium, the cells divide and differentiate to form the conducting tissues of the plant, i.e., the wood wood,botanically, the xylem tissue that forms the bulk of the stem of a woody plant.
A meristem is the tissue in most plants containing undifferentiated cells (meristematic cells), found in zones of the plant where growth can take place. Meristematic cells give rise to various organs of the plant and keep the plant growing. The shoot apical meristem (SAM) gives rise to organs like the leaves and flowers, while the root apical meristem (RAM) provides the meristematic cells for the future root growth. SAM and RAM cells divide rapidly and are considered indeterminate, in that they do not possess any defined end status.
Apical Meristem. Meristems are areas in plants where mitosis occurs, and due to this cell division, it is also where growth occurs. Lateral meristems can be found at the tip of lateral growths in the plant while the apical meristems responsible for vertical growth can be found at the root and shoot (apex) tips. 
Definition of MERISTEM. : a formative plant tissue usually made up of small cells capable of dividing indefinitely and giving rise to similar cells or to cells that differentiate to produce the definitive tissues and organs. — mer·i·ste·mat·ic \ˌmer-əs-tə-ˈma-tik\ adjective. — mer·i·ste·mat·i·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb
Apical meristem. Permanently embryonic tissue involved in cell division at the apices of plant roots and stems, and forming dynamic regions of growth. These apical meri­stems, usually consisting of small, densely cytoplasmic cells, become established during embryo development.
: a meristem at the apex of a root or shoot that is responsible for increase in length. 
Apical meristem is found at the apices, or tips of the plant, both the tip of the shoot and the root and is a region of actively dividing cells. The definition of is easy to remember when you break it down. An apex (plural: apices) is the tip, the very end, of something. Apical meristem causes the plant to grow up and down to get longer. This kind of growth is called primary growth. When a plant grows 'out' or gets thicker, it's called lateral or secondary growth.
meristem-undifferentiated tissue from which new cells are formed, as at the tip of a stem or root. plant tissue-the tissue of a plant. Noun. 1. meristem-undifferentiated tissue from which new cells are formed, as at the tip of a stem or root. plant tissue-the tissue of a plant. 1  Facebook.