“The potential impacts that load shedding will have on business, business confidence and consumers alike is inestimable,” said South Africa Chamber of Commerce and Industry chief Vusi Khumalo. Eskom began rolling blackouts, or load shedding, in Africa’s most advanced economy in 2008, as its crumbling infrastructure has battled to meet ballooning demand since the end of apartheid in 1994. Government was warned as far back as 1998 about a possible system collapse in a policy document presented to parliament.
One thing we do know for sure is that any load shedding, no matter how small or well managed, will have a negative impact on the economy, he says. Eskom has warned that there will be a high probability of load shedding on 62 days in February, March and April — that is 70% of the time. This situation deteriorated to such an extent that the major mining groups shut down their operations on 24 January 2008 due to safety considerations.. Nersa deemed that these 23 days of load shedding had cost the SA economy R50-billion in 2008, or R2.17-billion/day. This estimate was based on a figure of R75 per lost kWh (the so-called cost of unserved energy), which is stipulated in SA’s National Integrated Resource Plan
The Impact of Load Shedding on Mines. The mining industry has a critical need for uninterrupted electricity for continuous production. The deepest mines are most affected by load-shedding, whether asked to decrease by 10 percent, or having to deal with rolling electricity outages from day-to-day. A mining consultant at Cadiz Corporate Solutions, Mr. Peter Major, explained that Eskom’s load shedding practices are “paving the way for an increasingly difficult atmosphere between big mining houses and the government”. He said, “If you cut the air to workers underground, they will asphyxiate.”.
Economic effects of load-shedding hit home. Eugenie du Preez. Eskom's 99 days of load-shedding have limited mining and manufacturing output, causing the economy to behave as if it has 'lost a major industry'. Two factors that could reduce SA's growth forecast further are intensified load-shedding and a strike in the gold sector towards the end of the year. While Eskom has not enforced load-shedding for the past 17 days, the 99 days of load-shedding it has implemented in 2015 so far has caused manufacturing and mining output to decrease, Stats SA figures show.
On the 6th February 2015 Economist Mike Schussler was quoted in MiningReview.com saying, “The current round of load shedding is going to have a dire effect on the South African economy,”. According to the Mining Rreview Schussler has warned that the mining industry will be among the hardest hit. In South Africa the practice of ‘Load shedding’ is when Eskom (South Africa’s largest utilities supplier) interrupts the electricity supply to certain areas as a last resort action to balance electricity supply and demand.
One thing we do know for sure is that any load shedding, no matter how small or well managed, will have a negative impact on the economy, he says. Eskom has warned that there will be a high probability of load shedding on 62 days in February, March and April — that is 70% of the time. By extension, the 62 days of load shedding that Eskom fears are now on the cards could cost the economy over R134bn, or 3% of nominal GDP. The difference, say economists, is that then load shedding came as a shock, even seeming to catch Eskom unawares, and the effects appeared concentrated in mining and manufacturing.
Stephen Grootes looked at the impact of load shedding and how the scheduling functions. Louis Pieterse, the Strategic Executive at City Power spoke to Stephen Grootes who said although there is no load shedding planned for today, there are always options and no specific area target all the time. Illegal mining has had a huge negative impact on the economy and in the mining industry. News this morning were that Harmony Gold has had to shut down a part of their operations, the Kusasalethu mine because of this. Frans Baleni, General Secretary at NUM spoke to Stephen Grootes about the issue.
He says, however, that Eskom has not done any studies to estimate the economic impact of load shedding, nor is the reduction in Eskom’s GDP forecast based on the assumption that there will be a specific number of days of load shedding this year. This situation deteriorated to such an extent that the major mining groups shut down their operations on 24 January 2008 due to safety considerations.. Nersa deemed that these 23 days of load shedding had cost the SA economy R50-billion in 2008, or R2.17-billion/day. This estimate was based on a figure of R75 per lost kWh (the so-called cost of unserved energy), which is stipulated in SA’s National Integrated Resource Plan