Aloe moisturizes the skin without giving it a greasy feel, so it`s perfect for anyone with an oily skin complexion. For women who use mineral-based make-up, aloe vera acts as a moisturizer and is great for the face prior to the application to prevents skin drying. For men: Aloe vera gel can be used as an aftershave treatment as its healing properties can treat small cuts caused by shaving. 3. It treats acne. Here are 8 benefits of using aloe vera gel: 1. It treats sunburn. Aloe Vera helps with sunburn through its powerful healing activity at the epithelial level of the skin, a layer of cells that cover the body. It acts as a protective layer on the skin and helps replenish its moisture.
ALOE Overview Information. Aloe (often called aloe vera) produces two substances, gel and latex, which are used for medicines. Aloe gel is the clear, jelly-like substance found in the inner part of the aloe plant leaf. Aloe latex comes from just under the plant's skin and is yellow in color. But most people use aloe gel topically, as a remedy for skin conditions including burns, sunburn, frostbite, psoriasis, and cold sores. Some people also use aloe gel to help surgical wounds and bedsores heal faster. There is some science supporting these uses.
1 Aloe vera is beneficial for cracked and dry skin. 2  Aloe vera oil can be used on the dry skin to make the skin normal and shiny. 3  Aloe Vera acts as a natural barrier and shields our skin from dangerous toxins. 4  Aloe vera is helpful for frostbite, burns, insect bites, blisters and allergic reactions. 1 Aloe vera oil can be used on the dry skin to make the skin normal and shiny. 2  Aloe Vera acts as a natural barrier and shields our skin from dangerous toxins. 3
Instead of aloe vera you can apply coconut oil on your skin has it has a variety of dermatological benefits. Coconut oil can be used as a skin moisturizer, as a remedy for a condition that causes dry, rough, scaly skin and as an antiseptic. One of the most complete articles on this subject out there. 
People with normal skin can use aloe vera gel without worrying about any side-effects. Use it daily to keep your skin in good health. This is a good pack to keep your skin looking smooth and supple. Also try these fruit face packs for normal skin. Steps: 1  Take one tbsp of aloe vera gel and mix it with one tbsp of gram flour (besan), one tsp of orange peel powder and some curd. 2  Apply this pack on your face and neck, avoiding the area around the eyes. 
The NCCAM lists several conditions which there is insufficient evidence to rate Aloe’s use. They are treatments for burns, frostbite, cold sores, high cholesterol, lowering blood sugars in diabetics, bed sores, ulcerative cholitis, and skin damage caused by radiation treatment for cancer. So be careful! If you’re using a topical Aloe Vera for the treatment of a minor burn, or Psoriasis, then you’re good. If you’re using it for anything else, there might be problems. As I said at the beginning, it really depends on the study you read and who you ask!
Overview. The Aloe vera plant has been used for thousands of years to heal a variety of conditions, most notably burns, wounds, skin irritations, and constipation. It is grown in subtropical and tropical locations, including South Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean
Aloe vera is a very popular herbal remedy. The Aloe vera plant (also called Aloe barbadensis) is unique among plants for its importance in natural skin care. The skin is the largest organ in the human body and it really takes a beating. Aloe Vera can help alleviate this beating. 1 Aloe vera oil can be used on the dry skin to make the skin normal and shiny. 2  Aloe Vera acts as a natural barrier and shields our skin from dangerous toxins. 3  Aloe vera is helpful for frostbite, burns, insect bites, blisters and allergic reactions.
Aloe medications can be taken by mouth or applied to the skin. Aloe gel is taken by mouth for osteoarthritis, bowel diseases including ulcerative colitis, fever, itching and inflammation, and as a general tonic. But most people use aloe gel topically, as a remedy for skin conditions including burns, sunburn, frostbite, psoriasis, and cold sores. Some people also use aloe gel to help surgical wounds and bedsores heal faster. There is some science supporting these uses.
1 Psoriasis. 2  Applying a cream containing 0.5% aloe for 4-8 weeks seems to reduce the skin plaques and decrease the severity of psoriasis. 3  However, using an aloe gel does not seem to improve other symptoms associated with psoriasis, including skin redness. But most people use aloe gel topically, as a remedy for skin conditions including burns, sunburn, frostbite, psoriasis, and cold sores. Some people also use aloe gel to help surgical wounds and bedsores heal faster. There is some science supporting these uses.