Confidence votes 12.6K. The world's largest butterfly is the 'Queen Alexandra's Birdwing' of New Guinea with a wingspan of 12 1/2 inches or 32 cm. The world's smallest butterfly is the 'Western Pygmy Blue' of the southern US with a wingspan of 0.62 inches or 15 mm.
Home / What is the smallest and largest butterfly/moth found at Reiman Gardens. The world’s largest butterfly is the Queen Alexandra’s Birdwing. It has a wingspan of 12 inches and is native to Papua New Guinea. The world’s smallest butterfly is the Western Pygmy Blue. It has a wingspan of 0.5 to 0.75 inch and is native to the western U.S. The world’s largest moth is the Atlas Moth. It has a wingspan of 10 inches and is native to Southeast Asia. The world’s smallest moth is a Nepticulid moth, a leaf miner.
What is the World's Largest Butterfly? The largest butterfly in the world is the Queen Alexandra's Birdwing (Ornithoptera alexandrae). This huge, poisonous butterfly lives in the rain forests of Papua, New Guinea, and is an endangered species with a wing span of 11 inches. Males of the species are much smaller than females. The second-largest butterfly in the world is the Goliath Birdwing and it lives in Indonesian rainforests and has a wingspan up to 11 inches as well.
A: Queen Alexandra's Birdwing is the largest butterfly in the world, with a wingspan up to 1 foot (30 cm). This tropical butterfly is from the Rainforest in northern Papua New Guinea. 
View full size image. The Queen Alexandra Birdwing (Ornithoptera alexandrae) is the largest living butterfly, with a wingspan that stretches almost a foot across. One the rarest butterflies in the world, it's found only in the rain forests of New Guinea. The females, which have a chocolate brown body and wings, boast a wingspan of 11 to 12 inches (28 to 31 centimeters) The males are smaller they grow to only 6.7 to 7.4 inches (17 to 19 cm) but they're much more colorful: they sport a bright yellow abdomen topped with electric green and aquamarine wings.
Atlas moths are considered to be the largest moths in the world in terms of total wing surface area (upwards of c. 400 square cm or 65 square inches). Their wingspans are also amongst the largest, from 25-30 cm (10-12 inches). Females are appreciably larger and heavier. Check out these great pics of the Atlast Moth, the worlds largest butterfly! World's Largest Butterfly. The Atlas moth (Attacus atlas) is a large saturniid moth found in the tropical and subtropical forests of Southeast Asia, southern China, common across the Malay archipelago, Thailand to Indonesia.