Before we go into the details of how does bacteria cause diseases, it is important to understand the difference between 'infection' and 'infectious disease'. When an organism is able to lodge itself in or the tissue of the host and multiply, it is called an infection. However, not every infection leads to a disease. No, not all bacteria cause diseases. You will be surprised to know, less than 1% bacteria have the ability to cause diseases. There are a few beneficial bacteria that help plants, animals as well as humans in various ways.
These toxins can damage your cells. Some bacteria damage your cells directly as they grow. Disease symptoms such as a high temperature, headaches and rashes can be caused by the damage and toxins or by the way your body responds to the damage and toxins produced by the bacteria. 
Bacteria cause disease. Most of these bacteria, like those listed below make their presence felt immediately and may or may not result in death. Some people though, can be infected with a bacterium that normally causes a disease and not show any harmful effects at all, people like this are called carriers. An infectious agent is simply an organism that is capable of getting past your defenses and then living/growing inside or you. Bacteria rarely, if ever, cause disease merely by being present, even the virulence factors they produce to help them invade the body often do little real harm.
The pathogenicity of invasive bacteria, or their ability to cause disease is generally the result of toxins. Substances produced by the bacterial cell, sometimes simply as a by-produce of its normal metabolism, which interact negatively with our body, by interfering with the normal functioning. An infectious agent is simply an organism that is capable of getting past your defenses and then living/growing inside or you. Bacteria rarely, if ever, cause disease merely by being present, even the virulence factors they produce to help them invade the body often do little real harm.
One of the chronic diseases caused due to invasion is tuberculosis. The Mycobacterium tuberculosis invades the cells of the lungs and destroys the cells. However, not all bacteria are able to cause disease in humans. Although they are pathogenic in nature, the body's natural defense prevents them from doing any harm. No, not all bacteria cause diseases. You will be surprised to know, less than 1% bacteria have the ability to cause diseases. There are a few beneficial bacteria that help plants, animals as well as humans in various ways.
Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningitis
Bacteria are known as pathogens as they are able to cause a disease in plants, insects, animals as well as humans. The ability of bacteria to cause disease is called pathogenicity. This pathogenicity is expressed in terms of virulence. No, not all bacteria cause diseases. You will be surprised to know, less than 1% bacteria have the ability to cause diseases. There are a few beneficial bacteria that help plants, animals as well as humans in various ways.
How does bacteria cause diseases in humans is a question one often wonders about. We all know that pathogenic bacteria when given an opportunity, will gladly cause an infection. What exactly takes place on the cellular level that makes us sick, will be discussed in the following article. No, not all bacteria cause diseases. You will be surprised to know, less than 1% bacteria have the ability to cause diseases. There are a few beneficial bacteria that help plants, animals as well as humans in various ways.
The term 'germ' actually refers to any microorganism, especially those microorganisms that cause disease. Included in this category are certain viruses, bacteria, and fungi. Because viruses, bacteria, and fungi cause many well-known diseases, it is common to confuse them, but they are as different as a mouse and an elephant. A look at the size, structure, reproduction, hosts, and diseases caused by each will shed some light on the important differences between these germs.
The vast majority of the bacteria in the body are rendered harmless by the protective effects of the immune system, and some are beneficial. However, several species of bacteria are pathogenic and cause infectious diseases, including cholera, syphilis, anthrax, leprosy, and bubonic plague. 