On the other hand, if you want to continue to scan the text to a picture file, there are a number of picture file types and the best for your purpose would be a .jpg file. It's a compressed file which results in a good picture but with a smaller file size. 
How to reduce size of PDF file created from document scanned on printer using Home Center Software. Published 08/25/2010 11:38 AM | Updated 04/25/2011 12:43 PM | Answer ID 1738. When a document is scanned on a KODAK All-in-One Printer, it is saved uncompressed at the resolution selected in the Home Center. You can lower the scan resolution (dpi), which will result in a smaller file size. However, the ability to compress a PDF file is not a feature of the Home Center Software. There are various third-party applications that feature file compression. Here are some applications that can compress PDF files:
Before covering how to reduce the size of scanned documents in detail, let’s discuss four factors that affect the size of scanned images: 1  Scanning Resolution. 2  A scan at 600 dpi results in a much larger file than at 300 dpi. 3  Color Space. 1 Color and grayscale files result in much larger files than black and white files. 2  Physical dimensions of the scanned page. 3  A legal-size scan will be larger than a letter-size scan, with all other factors being equal. 4  Compression. 5  Raw scan data can be compressed to make it smaller.
1 A scan at 600 dpi results in a much larger file than at 300 dpi. 2  Color Space. 3  Color and grayscale files result in much larger files than black and white files. 4  Physical dimensions of the scanned page. 5  A legal-size scan will be larger than a letter-size scan, with all other factors being equal. 1 Color and grayscale files result in much larger files than black and white files. 2  Physical dimensions of the scanned page. 3  A legal-size scan will be larger than a letter-size scan, with all other factors being equal. 4  Compression. 5  Raw scan data can be compressed to make it smaller.
When you scan a document onto your computer using a flatbed scanner, the size -- in terms of physical dimensions and bit size, or the amount of space the document takes up on the computer's hard drive -- is generally larger than necessary for the document's recipient to make use of the document. You can make scanned documents a smaller bit size to send the documents to others more quickly and easy via email.
Tips for Reducing File Size of Documents To find out the size of your scan, right-click on the thumbnail of your scan in the Document Viewer and select Properties.. Look for the number beside File Size.. If your scan is too large (larger than 1MB), try one or more of the following to reduce the file size. Scan each page of your transcripts separately Scan each page of your transcripts separately to create a separate file for each page; Files containing multiple pages are larger in size. Scan the document to a lower quality file type 1. Follow the instructions to scan a new document. 2. When the window Scanning From The Scan Picture/Document/Film opens, select your preferred File Type. (For more information on different file types see below.) 3. Proceed with the scanning instructions
Save the file as a PDF and reduce the file size in Adobe Acrobat Professional. (Adobe Acrobat Professional 8.0 2. Choose to save your file as an earlier version of Adobe. Scan the document to a lower quality file type 1. Follow the instructions to scan a new document. 2. When the window Scanning From The Scan Picture/Document/Film opens, select your preferred File Type. (For more information on different file types see below.) 3. Proceed with the scanning instructions
1 Scanning Resolution. 2  A scan at 600 dpi results in a much larger file than at 300 dpi. 3  Color Space. 4  Color and grayscale files result in much larger files than black and white files. 5  Physical dimensions of the scanned page. 6  A legal-size scan will be larger than a letter-size scan, with all other factors being equal. 1 Color and grayscale files result in much larger files than black and white files. 2  Physical dimensions of the scanned page. 3  A legal-size scan will be larger than a letter-size scan, with all other factors being equal. 4  Compression. 5  Raw scan data can be compressed to make it smaller.