Common sense and good eye health dictate that you should consult your eye doctor when you need a change in prescription, or at least once every two years. The need for a new pair of reading glasses may be nothing more than the natural aging process at work.
Absolutely! If you already wear prescription eyeglasses or reading glasses, you may be tempted to dismiss the idea of computer glasses. But eyeglasses prescribed for general purpose wearing are often not well-suited for prolonged computer work.
If you were able to read all of the letters above you have 20/20 vision, however you may still need glasses for optimal acuity. If you missed any of the letters in this test, it may be an indication you would fail a driver's license eye examination and therefore need glasses for driving.
Best Answer: Computer glasses are usually made with the same power as your intermediate distance in the progressives. But as a single vision lens, can cause some reading problems when you are presbyopic. Computer glass can also be made as progressives, with the intermediate power on the top, and reading on the bottom. But they are only good for that use.
Computer glasses are prescription glasses that are designed to wear when doing computer work. They allow you to focus your eyes on a computer screen, which is farther away than reading material is normally held.
Also, don't confuse reading glasses with computer eyewear. If you're using reading glasses to try to view your computer screen, it's probably not working very well. For one thing, reading printed matter is done at a closer range than reading text on a computer screen.
Many of us wear glasses to correct some kind of vision problem. But not all glasses are right for all situations. Computer glasses differ from regular glasses in that they are specifically made to help reduce the eye strain associated with computer work.
It all depends on how comfortable you are using your regular progressives for that work. The options of computer glasses are there for those who need them, but not everyone does. It depends a lot on how strong your reading power is as to how limited you will be for computer use with your regular progressives.