Guatemala is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of North America. Countries near Guatemala include Belize, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua. 
Geography. Situated on the Pacific coast of Central America, El Salvador has Guatemala to the west and Honduras to the north and east. It is the smallest of the Central American countries, with an area equal to that of Massachusetts, and it is the only one without an Atlantic coastline. 
RELATIVE LOCATION: El Salvador is positioned in both the northern and western hemispheres. Located in North America on the western edge of the Central America isthmus-a somewhat narrow strip of land that connects North and South America-the country is bordered by Guatemala, Honduras and the Pacific Ocean. 
El Salvador is in Central America, which is part of North America. It is also in Latin America, which consists of Central America and South America. 6 people found this useful. Edit. 1 Top El Salvador Attractions El Salvador is a small country located in Central America; it is somewhat off the beaten path, with only about half the number of visitors as Costa Rica, which is a similar s….
El Salvador is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of North America. Countries near El Salvador include Guatemala, Honduras, Belize and Nicaragua. Its biggest cities and towns include San Salvador, Soyapango, Santa Ana and Mejicanos. 
El Salvador is located in CENTRAL AMERICA. It's neightboring countries are as follows:   North: Honduras   South: Pacific ocean   East: Nicaragua   West: Gua … temala   El Salvador is in Central America, it borders Guatemala and Honduras. 24 people found this useful. 1 Top El Salvador Attractions El Salvador is a small country located in Central America; it is somewhat off the beaten path, with only about half the number of visitors as Costa Rica, which is a similar s….
America-at the north-starts with Canada, then USA, then comes Mexico. Then Central America starts with Guatemala and Belize, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica and Panama. Then the rest of the map down is called South America, the part of the American continent that ends with Argentina and Chile. Best Answer: Seven continents in the world. One of those continents is North America. There are 23 countries in the North American continent, including El Salvador. Many people erroneously associate El Salvador with South America, or state it as being a part of the (non-existent) Central American Continent
Answer by Harish Chebrolu. Confidence votes 1.8K. El Salvador is in Central America, which is part of North America. It is also in Latin America, which consists of Central America and South America. 1 Top El Salvador Attractions El Salvador is a small country located in Central America; it is somewhat off the beaten path, with only about half the number of visitors as Costa Rica, which is a similar s….
Located in the continent of Central America, El Salvador covers 20,721 square kilometers of land and 320 square kilometers of water, making it the 154th largest nation in the world with a total area of 21,041 square kilometers. 