It is the case for the Bolognese (referring to the city of Bologna), or the Bergamasco, which, given its name, most probably sprang from the Bergamo area in the North of Italy, although its exact origin is not clear. The rest of italian dog breeds are not specific to a particular area in Italy. The Bergamasco is a breed of dog which has its origin in the Italian Alps, where it was originally used as a herding dog. The breed's most distinctive feature is the unusual matted coat which is a normal and healthy characteristic of the breed.
The Best Italian Dog Names. Italian dog names sound colorful, captivating, exotic.... and so they should. After all, they originate in Italy-the land of the Romans, world-famous artists, the mafia, good wine and amazing food, a country that's a blend of history, color, flavor and excitement. 
Some of them include the adjective italian in their breed name, like the Spinone Italiano, but not necessarily. Note that Cane Corso does not refer to a dog breed that originated on the island of Corsica. Corso does not mean 'from Corsica' here, but is an adjective of which the true etymology is still unclear. The Bergamasco is a breed of dog which has its origin in the Italian Alps, where it was originally used as a herding dog. The breed's most distinctive feature is the unusual matted coat which is a normal and healthy characteristic of the breed.
RUSSKIY GLADIATOR-kennel of breed Central Asia Shepherd Dog. Central Asia Shepherd Dog. The kennel is engaged in cultivation of dogs of breed CAO (alabay) to Italy, Rome. In our kennel very large and powerful dogs delivered from Russia and Ukraine. Dog Breeders and Kennels in Italy: We breed shar-pei since 1990 we have16 italian and internationl champions, 11 awards of merit and many other titles; Berner Mouintain Dog, kennel in Italy.
Are there any dog breeds in the AKC or FSS that originated in Greece? Most dogs seem to originate in England, Germany, Spain, or Italy. Best Answer: The Neapolitan Mastiff is said to have originated in ancient Greece, and was rediscovered in Italy in 1940: http://www.akc.org/breeds/neapolitan_mas...
Carol King selects 10 dog breeds that originated in Italy that may make for man’s best Italian friend. Bergamasco Shepherd. The Pastore Bergamasco (Bergamasco Shepherd) has its origins in the Italian Alps near Bergamo. A pastoral dog, originally used for herding, it is still used for herding cattle and sheep in the Italian and Swiss Alps. A medium-size dog, the Bergamasco grows to 24 inches in height and can live for up to 15 years
Some of these breeds originated in a specific region or area of Italy, which is still recognizable in their name. The name of the area, or a symbol thereof, forms an integral part of their breeds names, like for the Neapolitan Mastiff (Naples) or the Cirneco dell'Etna (Sicily). Italian Dog breeds (Recognized). The Bergamasco is a breed of dog which has its origin in the Italian Alps, where it was originally used as a herding dog. The breed's most distinctive feature is the unusual matted coat which is a normal and healthy characteristic of the breed.
Italian breeds of dogs. This section is about Italian breeds of dogs, to which Federico Vinattieri, an expert breeder of Neapolitan Mastiff and a student at Pisa University for Veterinary Science, has collaborated. 