If it is taking forever for your laptop to startup then here is how to speed up your laptop startup. You see... The more you use your laptop, the more programs you probably download and install on your laptop. And a lot of these programs are set to automatically load whenever you turn on your laptop. Type in msconfig into the menu. A window will then appear. After that, click on the Startup tab. This will give you a long and detailed list of all of the things that get started up when you turn on your laptop. Go through the list and if you see anything that you don't want started up then uncheck the box.
But by getting rid of a few programs, not only will it speed up your laptop startup, but it will run faster in general. It won't be clogged with all of those extra programs that are running. This is a very simple trick that you can do that will do wonders for your computer. The best thing is it only takes a few minutes. Type in msconfig into the menu. A window will then appear. After that, click on the Startup tab. This will give you a long and detailed list of all of the things that get started up when you turn on your laptop. Go through the list and if you see anything that you don't want started up then uncheck the box.
VIEW ALL PHOTOS IN GALLERY Windows 7 made notable speed improvements over its predecessor, Vista, but it can't compare with the much faster Windows 8. And most people haven't experienced the 15-second boot that Microsoft engineers were shooting for in Windows 7 (and achieved in Windows 8 for many machines). The problem with most speed-up Windows 7 stories is that they tell you to turn off some of the operating system's more charming visual features. The first nine of my dozen tips show you ways you can speed up your Windows 7 system without compromising its appearance.
Cookies and temporary Internet files occupy computer memory which results is slow computer performance. You can go to Internet options under tools on your browser and delete cookies. You can also use my computer section of your computer and right click your C drive and perform disk clean up to remove unwanted files. This is quick way to boost your laptop / PC performance. 
9. One of the most tried and true ways to speed up your boot process is to keep unnecessary programs from starting up with your computer. You can do this in Windows 10 by pressing Ctrl+Alt+Esc to open the Task Manager, and going to the Startup tab. If you’re still running Windows 7, open the Start menu, type msconfig, and press enter. You’ll see all the programs that launch when you boot up your computer.
Below are some of the best tips to speed up your Windows startup. The first and most important thing you could do to speed up Windows startup is remove or disable programs from starting up when you boot Windows. There are two ways to do this manually. Remove Programs from StartUp. 1  Click on the Windows Start button in the left corner of your screen. 2  Type run in the Search field. 3  Type msconfig in the Run command line, this will load the System Configuration tool.
Ignore this : Speed up and make windows 8.1 /windows 8 fast startup boot run max performance. Speed Up windows 8.1 2014. how to get more ram on windows 8 how to increase ram on windows 8. how to make windows 8 faster for gaming. 
This will speed up your computer when accessing files and starting programs because your computer will not have to search all over the hard drive for things that should be located next to one another. Check to see what is on your startup menu by choosing START, RUN and typing in msconfig. Go to the startup tab. Delete any non essential programs set to automatically start when you power on the computer and this should speed up your computer. You can also use a software program that makes the process easier. It is called Autoruns.
Clean Out Programs that Launch at Startup. One of the most tried and true ways to speed up your boot process is to keep unnecessary programs from starting up with your computer. You can do this in Windows 10 by pressing Ctrl+Alt+Esc to open the Task Manager, and going to the Startup tab. If you’re still running Windows 7, open the Start menu, type msconfig, and press enter. You’ll see all the programs that launch when you boot up your computer.
Another way of speeding up your startup is changing your Windows Theme. Find out how to do this in our Change Windows Theme guide. A third method to speed the Windows startup is to remove unnecessary programs from your computer and registry. Remove Programs from StartUp. 1  Click on the Windows Start button in the left corner of your screen. 2  Type run in the Search field. 3  Type msconfig in the Run command line, this will load the System Configuration tool.