Infected hair follicle or folliculitis is a condition wherein the hair follicles are infected with bacteria or fungi resulting to a hard red lump that surrounds the base of the hair. Hair follicles are part of our skin. The growth of the hair follicle is due to the cells that are bundled together. The hair follicle is joined together or attached to the sebaceous gland that produces oil called sebum. The thicker the hair, the more sebum is produced. 
The thicker the hair, the more the number of sebaceous glands there are. Also attached to the follicle is a tiny bundle of muscle fiber, called the arrector pili, which is responsible for causing the follicle lissis to become more perpendicular (upright) to the surface of the skin. Stem cells are at the junction of the arrector and the follicle, and are principally responsible for the ongoing hair production during a process known as the Anagen stage. The average growth rate of healthy hair follicles on the scalp is nearly 0.5 inches (13 mm) per month.
A hair follicle is a part of the skin, which grows a hair by packing old cells together. Stem cells are at the junction of the arrector and the follicle, and are principally responsible for the ongoing hair production during a process known as the Anagen stage. The average growth rate of healthy hair follicles on the scalp is nearly 0.5 inches (13 mm) per month.
Hair is simple in structure, but has important functions in social functioning. Hair is made of a tough protein called keratin. A hair follicle anchors each hair into the skin. The hair bulb forms the base of the hair follicle. In the hair bulb, living cells divide and grow to build the hair shaft. Blood vessels nourish the cells in the hair bulb, and deliver hormones that modify hair growth and structure at different times of life. 
The human hair follicle is an intriguing structure, and much remains to be learned about hair anatomy and its growth. The hair follicle can be divided into 3 regions: the lower segment (bulb and suprabulb), the middle segment (isthmus), and the upper segment (infundibulum). 
A hair follicle is a mammalian skin organ that produces hair. Hair production occurs in phases, including growth (anagen), cessation (catagen), and rest (telogen) phases. The telogen phase is the resting phase of the hair follicle. When the body is subjected to extreme stress, as much as 70 percent of hair can prematurely enter a phase of rest, called the telogen phase. This hair begins to fall, causing a noticeable loss of hair.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. The hair follicle is a structure of the skin from which hair grows. There are hair follicles all over the skin, with the exception of the lips, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet. Hair follicles grow hair by packing old cells together. The hair follicle is supplied with one or more sebaceous glands, which provide sebum, an oily substance that helps lubricate the hair and skin. 
9. Hair bulb. -. The base of the hair follicle is a bulb-shaped structure called the hair bulb. This includes several layers of different types of cells that extend up through the hair follicle, an indentation called the papilla (of the hair) - see below, and a region of cells called the germinal matrix. 10. Hair follicles are the structures from which hairs emerge from the skin. Each hair is a thread of fused (i.e. attached together), dead, keratinized cells. The two main parts of hairs are: 1  The hair shaft is the visible part of the hair that protrudes through the skin.
Hair follicle: A sac from which a hair grows and into which the sebaceous (oil) glands open. The follicle is lined by cells derived from the epidermal (outside) layer of the skin. Each follicle normally goes through a five-year cycle of growth and rest, with about 90% of the follicles growing hair at any one time, averaging about six inches (15 cm) of growth per year. Derived from the Latin word follis, for bag. The human hair follicle is a dynamic structure that generates hair through a complex and exquisitely regulated cycle of growth and remodelling governed by numerous genes, Siobh n A. Jordan has noted in Molecular Medicine Today.