Gregor Mendel is called the father of genetics. He was an Austrian monk, and was born in a small town of Austria on July 22, 1822. He belonged to a poor peasant family, and both his parents were farmers. So, dealing with plants was in his genes right from the start. 
(2) F1 generation. (3) F2 generation. Gregor Mendel, who is known as the father of modern genetics, was inspired by both his professors at the University of Olomouc (Friedrich Franz and Johann Karl Nestler) and his colleagues at the monastery (such as Franz Diebl) to study variation in plants.
Gregor Johann Mendel (20 July 1822 – 6 January 1884) was a German-speaking Moravian scientist and Augustinian friar who gained posthumous fame as the founder of the modern science of genetics. (3) F2 generation. Gregor Mendel, who is known as the father of modern genetics, was inspired by both his professors at the University of Olomouc (Friedrich Franz and Johann Karl Nestler) and his colleagues at the monastery (such as Franz Diebl) to study variation in plants.
Gregor Mendel studied the following characteristics in pea plants: 1. Flower color-purple as dominant, white as recessive 2. Flower position-axial as dominant, terminal a … s recessive 3. Seed color-yellow as dominant, green as recessive 4. Seed shape-round as dominant, wrinkled as recessive 5. 
Synopsis. Gregor Mendel, known as the father of modern genetics, was born in Austria in 1822. A monk, Mendel discovered the basic principles of heredity through experiments in his monastery's garden
The Man, the Monk. Johann Gregor Mendel was born in the Silesian village of Heinzendorf, now Hyncice in the Czech Republic. His parents were peasant farmers and very early on recognized their son's intellect. Mendel was able to stay in school and pursue an academic life. 
Gregor Mendel 1823-1884 Gregor Mendel was an Augustinian monk from Moravia. His contribution to science is in the field of heredity. Although DNA, chromosomes and genetics were unknown concepts at the time, Mendel s experiments focused on the outward effects of the genetic programming (the phenotype). 
Gregor Mendel was an Austrian monk who discovered the basic principles of heredity through experiments in his garden. Mendel's observations became the foundation of modern genetics and the study of heredity, and he is widely considered a pioneer in the field of genetics. Gregor Mendel, known as the father of modern genetics, was born in Austria in 1822. A monk, Mendel discovered the basic principles of heredity through experiments in his monastery's garden
Mendel and His Pea Plants. Gregor Mendel was born in 1822 and grew up on his parents’ farm in Austria. He did well in school and became a monk. He also went to the University of Vienna, where he studied science and math. His professors encouraged him to learn science through experimentation and to use math to make sense of his resul