There are several differences for example; most DNA viruses use the DNA polymerases of of the host cell to synthesize new genomes along the templates provided by the viral DNA … , in contrast to replicate their genomes, RNA viruses use virally encoded polymerases that can use RNA as a template. RNA viruses have RNA (ribonucleic acid) as their genetic material and are usually single stranded, whereas, DNA Viruses have DNA (deoxyribo nucleic acid) as their nucleic acid and are usually double stranded.
Viruses that are made of DNA use the host cell's enzymes to synthesize the RNA needed to synthesize viral proteins. Viruses that contain RNA have an enzyme called reverse tran … scriptase which they can use to synthesize DNA from an RNA template. RNA viruses have RNA (ribonucleic acid) as their genetic material and are usually single stranded, whereas, DNA Viruses have DNA (deoxyribo nucleic acid) as their nucleic acid and are usually double stranded.
RNA viruses are very common. An RNA virus (also known as ribovirus) uses RNA, rather than DNA, for its genetic material. RNA viruses have comparatively high mutation rates. These viruses can be either single or double strands of RNA. The RNA viruses make up four of the six classes of viruses. 
Section 6.3 Viruses: Structure, Function, and Uses. A virus is a small parasite that cannot reproduce by itself. Once it infects a susceptible cell, however, a virus can direct the cell machinery to produce more viruses. Most viruses have either RNA or DNA as their genetic material. The nucleic acid may be single-or double-stranded
DNA viruses. Originally viruses were grouped and named according to the disease they cause, even if they are not closely related. For example Hepatitis A is an RNA virus and Hepatitis B is a DNA virus, but they both cause liver disease. Nowadays, however, viruses are grouped by their shared characteristics in much the same way as plants and animals are. All but one of the DNA virus families use double stranded DNA as their infectious 'code'
A DNA virus is a virus that has DNA as its genetic material and replicates using a DNA-dependent DNA polymerase. The nucleic acid is usually double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) but may also be single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). DNA viruses belong to either Group I or Group II of the Baltimore classification system for viruses. Single-stranded DNA is usually expanded to double-stranded in infected cells
In the appropriate cell, DNA viruses are able to program the cell to replicate the virus using the genes contained within the viral DNA genome. The extracellular form of a virus is known as a virion. For a DNA virus, the virion is composed of a set of DNA genes protected by a proteincontaining coat called a capsid. The coat is often characterized by regularity and symmetry in its structure and is capable of binding to and invading cells. Like all viruses, DNA viruses are small when compared to the cells they infect and as such are obligate intracellular parasites (parasites that can only replicate within cells).
Report Abuse. DNA from DNA viruses needs to be transcribed to RNA, which occurs in the nucleus. There is a chance that viral DNA can integrate into host genome and possibly insert close or into protooncogenes causing cancer. Compare this to RNA viruses, where RNA in the cytoplasm just needs to be translated directly into viral proteins for + stranded RNA viruses or RNA-RNA to proteins for-RNA.
Viruses can be classified based on proteins encoded within the viral genetic material or genome. Viruses with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) genomes are called DNA viruses. Like all viruses, DNA viruses are small when compared to the cells they infect and as such are obligate intracellular parasites (parasites that can only replicate within cells).