Allot between 12 and 25 percent of your income to personal items and activities as well as groceries. This includes entertainment and beauty services such as hair salons and barber shops. Two to 10 percent can be expected for personal expenses while the remaining 10 to 15 percent can be spent on food. Percentage guidelines help with money management. Developing percentage guidelines for your family income is vital to a family budget. This allows you to spend what is needed without going over the allotted amount that you have set for each category of expenses.
Rent to Income. Landlords typically require that your annual income is at least 40 times the monthly rent. For example, if you and your roommate are looking at a $3,000 per month apartment, the landlord would require a combined income of $3,000 × 40, which equals $120,000.
If that new apartment rents for less than 30 percent of your income, you should be in good financial shape. The cost of paying for a place to live is usually the largest single monthly expense for any household, whether you own or rent your home. For example, suppose you earn $50,000 a year, or $4,167 a month. If 35 percent of your income goes to rent, you'll be paying about $1,458 a month. But if only 25 percent goes to rent, the monthly payment is about $1,042 -- a savings of more than $400 a month
Percentage spent on clothing. Experts recommend spending no more than 8 percent of your income on clothing monthly. Percentage spent on groceries and dining out: Experts say you should aim for 18 percent of your income on total food expenses. Percentage spent on entertainment: Experts say you should aim for 5 percent of your income on total recreational expenses.
The Percentages. Most financial experts suggest that no more than 30 percent of your income should be spent on rent. That percentage is not universally recognized, however. Some experts put the ratio at 35 percent, while others say it should be 25 percent to 30 percent. For example, suppose you earn $50,000 a year, or $4,167 a month. If 35 percent of your income goes to rent, you'll be paying about $1,458 a month. But if only 25 percent goes to rent, the monthly payment is about $1,042 -- a savings of more than $400 a month
How Much Rent is Affordable? You might have also heard that you should spend no more than 30% of your annual income on rent. Spending 30% of your yearly income on rent is widely believed to be an affordable amount, leaving enough money for all your other expenses. Landlords typically require that your annual income is at least 40 times the monthly rent. For example, if you and your roommate are looking at a $3,000 per month apartment, the landlord would require a combined income of $3,000 × 40, which equals $120,000.
Once you buy, he says to make your housing costs no more than 25% of your take-home pay. Presumably, he would recommend an even smaller percentage for rent. Answers.com, always a good source for popular beliefs, gives 25% of gross income as the maximum rent. Move.com suggests a range of 25% to 30% . The photo alone makes it worth the click. The post muses, without resolution, on the eternal question of how high is too high. Many personal finance experts say you should spend no more than 35% of your gross income on rent (not including renter’s insurance) whether you live in a high-or low-cost area.
Rent or Mortgage. You should expect to spend between 25 to 30 percent of your net income each month on rent or mortgage. Landlords and property managers typically require you to make at least 2.5 to three times the rent to qualify as a tenant. If your current home takes more than 30 percent of your income, it is time to add to your income, get a roommate or find a cheaper place to live. Percentage guidelines help with money management. Developing percentage guidelines for your family income is vital to a family budget. This allows you to spend what is needed without going over the allotted amount that you have set for each category of expenses.