Wesson cooking oil is a brand of vegetable oil manufactured in Memphis, Tennessee and sold by ConAgra Foods. Historically, Wesson was cottonseed oil, but as of 2009 the products currently sold under the Wesson brand are oil mixtures that may include canola oil, corn oil, soybean oil or sunflower oil. The longtime spokeswoman for Wesson cooking oil was actress Florence Henderson, Although she sang the jingle, the word Wessonality was actually coined by a copywriter named Mark Itkowitz at BBDO New York in 1976.
Cooking what’s in season with what’s on hand is the mantra at Snowdrift Farm, Teton Valley’s biodynamic, organic farm and CSA. Nestled against the steamy green hills in Victor, Idaho, the farm produces eggs, chickens, pork, vegetables, herbs, and flowers for families and restaurants throughout the Tetons. 
1 Combine the sugar with 1/2 cup of the Red Cider in a saucepan and heat until all the sugar is dissolved. 2  Set aside to cool. 3  When cool, pour the sugar/cider syrup and 1 more cup of the Red Cider into an ice cream freezer and freeze as directed. Preparation: 1  Combine the brown sugar and Seckel Perry in a saucepan and heat until all the sugar is dissolved. 2  Set aside to cool. 3  When cool, pour the sugar/perry syrup and 1 more cup of the Seckel Perry into an ice cream freezer and freeze as directed. 4  After a few minutes, this will become a super-cooled syrup.
Thanks, Jazzymoon, for your quick reply and your research. I'll add a note to the old recipe so the youngers reading the family recipes will know what Snowdrift is in today's vernacular. There is also the vegetable oil, which is mainly soy-based oil, but the most popular among the different types is the Best Blend cooking oil that is enriched with the goodness of the Canola Oil. Conagrafoods Hope that helps a little.
Directions. 1  Melt butter, add sugar, lightly beaten eggs and coconut. 2  Cook over low heat until thickened. 3  Remove from heat, add vanilla and cool. 4  Add remaining ingredients, spread in a 9 inch pan and chill. 5  When cooled, frost with cream cheese icing. 1 Remove from heat, add vanilla and cool. 2  Add remaining ingredients, spread in a 9 inch pan and chill. 3  When cooled, frost with cream cheese icing. 4  ICING: Blend the cream cheese, butter and vanilla, beat til smooth and creamy. 5  Add in the icing sugar, more if needed for desired consistency
1 Cook over low heat until thickened. 2  Remove from heat, add vanilla and cool. 3  Add remaining ingredients, spread in a 9 inch pan and chill. 4  When cooled, frost with cream cheese icing. 5  ICING: Blend the cream cheese, butter and vanilla, beat til smooth and creamy. 1 Remove from heat, add vanilla and cool. 2  Add remaining ingredients, spread in a 9 inch pan and chill. 3  When cooled, frost with cream cheese icing. 4  ICING: Blend the cream cheese, butter and vanilla, beat til smooth and creamy. 5  Add in the icing sugar, more if needed for desired consistenc
1 Melt butter, add sugar, lightly beaten eggs and coconut. 2  Cook over low heat until thickened. 3  Remove from heat, add vanilla and cool. 4  Add remaining ingredients, spread in a 9 inch pan and chill. 5  When cooled, frost with cream cheese icing. 6  ICING: Blend the cream cheese, butter and vanilla, beat til smooth and creamy. 1 Remove from heat, add vanilla and cool. 2  Add remaining ingredients, spread in a 9 inch pan and chill. 3  When cooled, frost with cream cheese icing. 4  ICING: Blend the cream cheese, butter and vanilla, beat til smooth and creamy. 5  Add in the icing sugar, more if needed for desired consistenc
Beat shortening with sugar to a cream. Add water little at a time with flour, beat until creamy. Add baking powder, pinch salt and beat. Then stir in ...
The Wesson Oil and Snowdrift are such names in the domain of oil as a cooking medium. Pure cooking oil varieties are available from Wesson that has been preferred in most of the kitchens in most households across the world. There is also the vegetable oil, which is mainly soy-based oil, but the most popular among the different types is the Best Blend cooking oil that is enriched with the goodness of the Canola Oil. Conagrafoods Hope that helps a little.