The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945 after the Second World War by 51 countries committed to maintaining international peace and security, developing friendly relations among nations and promoting social progress, better living standards and human rights. 
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. At its founding, the UN had 51 member states; there are now 193. The headquarters of the United Nations is in Manhattan, New York City, and experiences extraterritoriality. Further main offices are situated in Geneva, Nairobi and Vienna.
Article I of the Charter of United Nations specifies the purposes of the UN. The Charter of United Nations (UN Charter) is the UN's governing document, much like the Constitution of the United States of America. The UN Charter sets out four main purposes: 1  Maintaining worldwide peace and security. 
Overview. The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. Main Organs. The main organs of the UN are the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the International Court of Justice, and the UN Secretariat. All were established in 1945 when the UN was founded.
The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic de … velopment, social progress, human rights and ultimately world peace. The main purpose of the United Nations is to function as a representative assembly so that each membership country of the UN can have a diplomatic voice via its delegates to t … he UN.
To ensure international peace and security.   The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic de … velopment, social progress, human rights and ultimately world peace. 2 people found this useful. The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights and ultim … ately world peace. for a+ prevent war ;) class 2010-2011. + 20 others found this useful.
The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights and ultim … ately world peace. for a+ prevent war ;) class 2010-2011. + 20 others found this useful. The main purpose of the United Nations is to function as a representative assembly so that each membership country of the UN can have a diplomatic voice via its delegates to t … he UN.