A wireless sniffer is a type of packet analyzer. A packet analyzer (also known as a packet sniffer) is a piece of software or hardware designed to intercept data as it is transmitted over a network and decode the data into a format that is readable for humans. Wireless sniffers are packet analyzers specifically created for capturing data on wireless networks. Wireless sniffers are also commonly referred to as wireless packet sniffers or wireless network sniffers. Wireless sniffer tools have many uses in commercial IT environments.
A packet analyzer (also known as a network analyzer, protocol analyzer or sniffer, or for particular types of networks, an Ethernet sniffer or wireless sniffer) is a computer program or a piece of computer hardware that can intercept and log traffic passing over a digital network or part of a network. WireShark Packet Sniffer. Wireshark is a free and open-source packet sniffer. This free network packet sniffer is one of the most popular packet sniffing freeware in the world. It is a cross-platform packet sniffer, and works on both Unix, as well as Windows.
A router with a sniffer, however, may be able to read the data in the packet as well as the source and destination addresses. Sniffers are often used on academic networks to prevent traffic bottlenecks caused by file-sharing applications. The term sniffer is occasionally used for a program that analyzes data other than network traffic. For example, a database could be analyzed for certain kinds of duplication. The generic term may have originated from Sniffer, which is said to be the first packet capture and decode software that was offered for the purpose of network analysis and troubleshooting.
2) Sniffer (with a capital S) is a trademark owned by NetScout. The generic term may have originated from Sniffer, which is said to be the first packet capture and decode software that was offered for the purpose of network analysis and troubleshooting.
1 Packet analyzer (aka network analyzer, protocol analyzer or sniffer), computer software or hardware that can intercept and log traffic passing over a digital network. 2  Allan Clarke (footballer born 1946) , the Leeds Utd, Fulham and England striker known by that nickname. Sniffer may refer to: 1  Packet analyzer (aka network analyzer, protocol analyzer or sniffer), computer software or hardware that can intercept and log traffic passing over a digital network.