The hippocampus (named after its resemblance to the seahorse, from the Greek ἱππόκαμπος, seahorse from ἵππος hippos, horse and κάμπος kampos, sea monster) is a major component of the brains of humans and other vertebrates. Humans and other mammals have two hippocampi, one in each side of the brain. It belongs to the limbic system and plays important roles in the consolidation of information from short-term memory to long-term memory and spatial navigation. The hippocampus is located under the cerebral cortex; and in primates it is located in the medial temporal lobe, underneath the cortical surface. Damage to the hippocampus can also result from oxygen starvation (hypoxia), encephalitis, or medial temporal lobe epilepsy. People with extensive, bilateral hippocampal damage may experience anterograde amnesia —the inability to form and retain new memories.
In other words, the hippocampus might be connecting the memory of your first day at school with information about the physical surroundings, the smells, and the sounds of that event. One way to look at what the hippocampus does in regard to memory is to examine a person with a damaged hippocampus. Many people with damage to the hippocampus have anterograde amnesia: they can remember the distant past but cannot form new memories. They can, however, learn new skills.
The entorhinal cortex is a major source of inputs to the hippocampus. In addition, the cingulate cortex, temporal lobe cortex, amygdala, orbital cortex, and olfactory bulb all have inputs to the hippocampus via the entorhinal cortex. 5.2 Hippocampus. The term hippocampal formation typically refers to the dentate gyrus, the hippocampus proper (i.e., cornu ammonis), and the subicular cortex. A hippocampal formation is located in the temporal lobe of each cerebral cortex, medial to the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle.
Speciﬁcally, the amygdala can modulateboth the encoding and the storage of hippocampal-dependentmemories. The hippocampal complex, by forming episodicrepresentations of the emotional signiﬁcance and interpretationof events, can inﬂuence the amygdala response whenemotional stimuli are encountered. Although these areindependent memory systems, they act in concert whenemotion meets memory. The amygdala’s modulation of consolidation The second stage of hippocampal memory formation isretention or storage. There is also evidence that theamygdala can inﬂuence the storage of memory. Hippo-campal-dependent memories are not stored in an all ornone fashion.
Damage to the hippocampus does not affect some types of memory, such as the ability to learn new skills (playing a musical instrument or solving certain types of puzzles, for example). This fact suggests that such abilities depend on different types of memory (procedural memory) and different brain regions. Damage to the hippocampus can also result from oxygen starvation (hypoxia), encephalitis, or medial temporal lobe epilepsy. People with extensive, bilateral hippocampal damage may experience anterograde amnesia —the inability to form and retain new memories.
The limbic system is a group of brain structures including the amygdala, hippocampus, and hypothalamus that are involved in processing and regulating emotions, memory, and sexual arousal. 
The amygdala and hippocampus are two parts of the limbic system of the brain. Both of these parts have primary functions that relate to memories and reactions to emotional aspects. These two parts, as part of the limbic system as a whole, deal with how the human brain processes these emotions and memories. The amygdala and hippocampus rely on each other to form their individual functions. Responses to stimuli are regulated by the amygdala and those responses are then used by the hippocampus in the formation of both short-term and long-term memories.
Stress, anxiety, and fear may produce responses from the amygdala. The amygdala and hippocampus are two parts of the brain responsible for the processing of memories. Patients with Alzheimer's disease often have damage in the hippocampus. The hippocampus and amygdala are both located under the hypothalamus. The amygdala and hippocampus rely on each other to form their individual functions. Responses to stimuli are regulated by the amygdala and those responses are then used by the hippocampus in the formation of both short-term and long-term memories.