The name Andre is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Andre is: Masculine; manly; brave. American Meaning: The name Andre is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Andre is: Masculine; manly; brave. English Meaning: The name Andre is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Andre is: Brave; Manly. Famous Bearer: Prince Andrew
In Biblical the meaning of the name Andrew is: A strong man. English Meaning: The name Andrew is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Andrew is: Manly; brave. In the bible the first of the twelve apostles chosen. Andrew is patron saint of Scotland and Russia. See also Jedrick and Kendrick. Greek Meaning: The name Andrew is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Andrew is: Manly. St Andrew, an apostle of Jesus Christ, later became patron saint of Scotland. The Scottish city St Andrews is named for him. 
Andrew is a name with Greek origins. The meaning of the name Andrew is manly. Nicknames for the name Andrew include Andy and Drew. There were two American presidents named Andrew: Andrew Jackson and Andrew Johnson. Andrew Wyeth was a renowned artist as was Andy Warhol. 
In 2000, the name Andrew was the second most popular name in Australia. In 1999, it was the 19th most common name, while in 1940, it was the 31st most common name. Andrew was the first most popular boys name in the Northern Territory in 2003 to 2015 and continuing. Andrew was the 16th most popular name for infants in British Columbia in 2004, the 17th most popular name in 2003, and the 19th most popular name in 2002. In 2001, it was the 18th most common name. From 1999 – 2003, Andrew was the sixth most often chosen name for a boy.
PRONOUNCED: AN-droo (English) [key]. Meaning & History. English form of the Greek name ανδρεας (Andreas) , which was derived from ανδρειος (andreios) manly, masculine, a derivative of ανηρ (aner) man. In the New Testament the apostle Andrew, the first disciple to join Jesus, is the brother of Simon Peter.
Origin of the name Andrew: Derived from the Greek andreios (manly). The name is borne by one of the apostles. He was a fisherman, a brother of Simon Peter, a disciple of John the Baptist, and the first disciple of Jesus. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Andrew /an-drew/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Andrew) is pronounced AN-droo. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Andrew is man, warrior. English form of the Greek name Andreas. Biblical: the first chosen of the 12 apostles. Saint Andrew is the patron saint of Scotland and Russia. The Saint Andrew's Cross, representing Scotland, appears on the flag of the United Kingdom.
Other origins for the name Andrew include-English, Biblical, Scottish.The name Andrew is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Manly; brave. In the bible the first of the twelve apostles chosen. Andrew is patron saint of Scotland and Russia. See also Jedrick and Kendrick. English name. In English, the name Andrew means-Manly; brave. In the bible the first of the twelve apostles chosen. Andrew is patron saint of Scotland and Russia. See also Jedrick and Kendrick..
Andrew was the 20th most popular name chosen for male infants in 2005. Andrew was the 16th most popular name for infants in British Columbia in 2004, the 17th most popular name in 2003, and the 19th most popular name in 2002. In 2001, it was the 18th most common name. From 1999 – 2003, Andrew was the sixth most often chosen name for a boy.