1 Visiting the Colosseum in Rome, Italy The Colosseum, located in Rome, Italy, is one of the most visited monuments in Europe. 2  Construction was finished in 80 A.D. At that time, this giant amphitheater was used for….
The Colosseum is an ancient arena located in Rome, Italy. Its original name is the Flavian Amphitheatre, and it was in use from about 80 AD until 1349, when it was severely damaged in an earthquake. It was never rebuilt and is now an archaeological and tourist site.
Considered to be one of the greatest contributions of the Roman Empire to the world, the Colosseum is visited by millions of travelers all across the globe every year. But if you plan to go to this famous landmark, you probably need to know the Colosseum location. The Colosseum is in Rome, Italy. It is located in the central-western part of the Italian Peninsula with a latitude of 42 degrees (North) and longitude of 13 degrees (East). The Leonardo da Vinci Airport is quite a ways from the Colosseum at nearly 22 km away.
1 Visiting the Colosseum in Rome, Italy The Colosseum, located in Rome, Italy, is one of the most visited monuments in Europe.
1 One of the major tourist destinations in Rome is the Colosseum, the ruins of the ancient amphit…. 2  Visiting the Colosseum in Rome, Italy The Colosseum, located in Rome, Italy, is one of the most visited monuments in Europe.
Location: The Colosseum is located in the historic city of Rome, Italy. History: The Colosseum in Rome (70-82) is best known for its multilevel system of vaults made of concrete.
The Colosseum is located just east of the Roman Forum and was built to a practical design, with its 80 arched entrances allowing easy access to 55,000 spectators, who were seated according to rank. The Coliseum is huge, an ellipse 188m long and 156 wide.
1 One of the major tourist destinations in Rome is the Colosseum, the ruins of the ancient amphit…. 2  Visiting the Colosseum in Rome, Italy The Colosseum, located in Rome, Italy, is one of the most visited monuments in Europe.