Lunges are a popular exercise because they can effectively build strength in the major lower body muscles and can be done anywhere. For curtsy lunges to be effective, you’ve got to perform them using correct technique and, in some circumstances, hold weights to provide enough of a stimulus to challenge the muscles. The front curtsy lunge is a safe exercise for building strength and size in your thighs and glutes as long as you use correct technique. Your lead knee should never go beyond the vertical line of your toes, because that places a significant amount of stress on your knee joint.
Type: Legs. The Curtsy Lunge is an effective exercise for developing and strengthening the thigh muscles. This exercise will also help you with your balance, but be careful the first time you perform this, as it may be a little tricky. Below you will find a video tutorial and step by step instructions on how to perform the Curtsy Lunge.
How to Fitness. Curtsy Lunge. Perk up your flat booty with super-effective curtsy lunges. Fitness expert Kristin McGee demonstrates a great, glute-building exercise in this video. 
Gluteals. The curtsy lunge is sometimes called the glute activation lunge. The gluteal muscles include the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius and gluteus minimus. The gluteus minimus muscles also are known as the hip abductors because they are used to pull the leg toward your body. How It Works. To understand how the curtsy lunge tones your lower body, you must first know how to properly perform one. Start by standing with your feet shoulder-width apart and your hands on your hips for stability. Use your left leg to take a large step back and across to the right.
Front curtsy lunges do work; they can build strength or size in your lower body muscles, as long as they’re done at an intensity that challenges your muscles. The front curtsy lunge is a safe exercise for building strength and size in your thighs and glutes as long as you use correct technique. Your lead knee should never go beyond the vertical line of your toes, because that places a significant amount of stress on your knee joint.
Stand with your feet hip-width apart, hands on your hips. Take a big step back with your left leg, crossing it behind your right. Bend your knees and lower your hips until your right thigh is nearly parallel to the floor (shown). Keep your torso upright and your hips and shoulders as square as possible. Return to start.
The front curtsy lunge targets numerous muscles in your lower body. Your gluteus maximus and hamstring muscles extend your hips, which mean they drive your legs back as you come out of the lunge. The front curtsy lunge is a safe exercise for building strength and size in your thighs and glutes as long as you use correct technique. Your lead knee should never go beyond the vertical line of your toes, because that places a significant amount of stress on your knee joint.
Want a more lifted, round, and fuller butt? Curtsy Lunges are a great Exercise to do to build and lift your booty. This is one of bikini model Vicky Justiz favorite exercises. Watch this video to learn good form. Start with no weight then get a barbell, dumbbell or weight vest and try it with weight.
5. Cancel. The curtsy lunge is a type of lunge done with the legs crossed. Learn how to tone your lower body using a bench to add intensity to curtsy lunges in this free health and fitness video lesson on how to get the lean, sexy legs you've always dreamed of! Part of the Video Series: How to Do Leg Exercises. Video Transcript. ALICE MONSAERT: Another variation of the lunge is the curtsey lunge. You know, when somebody does a curtsey, they cross their legs, their legs are crossed and the knees are turned out a little bit more than our regular straight-on lunge. So we're going to use the bench for this.