Step 1: Scroll down to ‘Manual Setup AP’. Step 2: Locate your Wireless Network Name from the 'Select SSID' drop down box. **Windstream recommends creating a unique Wireless Network name before changing your Wireless Password. Click here for steps on ‘How to Change Your Wireless Network Name’. Step 3: In the ‘WPA/WAPI passphrase’ box, enter your preferred new password. Click ‘Click here to display’ to ensure you entered your new password correctly. Step 4: Click ‘Apply/Save’. Your new wireless network password has been saved. 
3. Open the Wireless section. Once you are logged into your router, you will need to find the Wireless section of the configuration page. The exact name changes from manufacturer to manufacturer, but generally you are looking for a Wireless or Wireless Settings/Setup tab or button. If you can't connect via Wi-Fi because you don't know the password, use an Ethernet cable to connect your computer directly to the router. This will bypass the need for the Wi-Fi password. 1  Standard router addresses are. , , , 2  or. ( 3 Apple). 4  Enter the address into your browser's address bar.
If you have a 2wire gateway and need to change your WIFI password. 1  Open a Web browser and enter http://192.168.1.254 into the address bar. 2  When the Gateway's Graphical User Interface screen appears, click on the Wireless icon. 3  Under the Network section, the Wi-Fi Network Name can be found in the Network Name field. 
1. Open your router's configuration page. You can access your router's configuration page through a web browser on a computer connected to your network. If you can't connect via Wi-Fi because you don't know the password, use an Ethernet cable to connect your computer directly to the router. This will bypass the need for the Wi-Fi password. 1  Standard router addresses are. , , , 2  or. ( 3 Apple). 4  Enter the address into your browser's address bar.
1. Press and hold the reset button on the back of your wireless router. You will probably have to hold the reset button from 10 to 30 seconds depending on your brand of router. If you hold it for too short a time it will simply reset the router but won't revert back to its factory default settings. If you didn't lose you router password but just don't know how to change it, you can skip steps 1 and 2 and enter the admin user name and password that you have into step 4. This will allow you to change your wireless router's password without wiping out all your other router's settings.
If you’ve registered your router with mydlink, you may log in to the mydlink web portal at www.mydlink.com to modify your router’s settings. Step 1: Go to https://www.mydlink.com. Step 2: Log in to mydlink with your existing mydlink account and password. Step 3: Choose the router from My Devices. Go to Settings. Step 4: Go to Basic Settings to modify your password. Click the down arrow for the wireless band you wish to change the password for in order to expand the section. Check the Show Password to display the password on your screen
You can locate the the default admin name and password for your specific router by checking the manufacturer's website or by Googling Default Admin Password followed by your router's brand name and model. 5. Click on the Admin page from your router's configuration page and create a strong password. Be sure you enter a strong complex password for your router's admin password. If you ever looe this password you will have to repeat the steps above. If you didn't lose you router password but just don't know how to change it, you can skip steps 1 and 2 and enter the admin user name and password that you have into step 4. This will allow you to change your wireless router's password without wiping out all your other router's settings.
If prompted, enter your router's user name and password, and log into your router. Not all routers will require this step. If your router defaults to requiring a password, it will be listed with the documentation. If so, the default password is generally “admin,” and you may leave the User name field blank. When you set up your wireless network, however, the default name (SSID) is often hard to remember and, not to mention, boring. You may also want to change your SSID to make your network harder to hack into. Often, router manufacturers may name the SSID the name of the company that made it, such as Cisco or Belkin.
Ad. 2. Enter your router's username and password. Every router will require a username and password before you can access the innards. If you never changed this when you first configured the router, chances are the username is admin and the password is admin or password. If you can't connect via Wi-Fi because you don't know the password, use an Ethernet cable to connect your computer directly to the router. This will bypass the need for the Wi-Fi password. 1  Standard router addresses are. , , , 2  or. ( 3 Apple). 4  Enter the address into your browser's address bar.
If prompted enter the username and password and click ok. The default username is admin in lower case and the default password is printed on the back of the router in the lower left corner of the label. The configuration screen will be displayed and you change the password there. 