We cook a New York 1 inch thick steak on a charcoal grill for 20 minutes. We only flip once at about 15 minutes. That gives you a medium well steak. It will vary depending on the thickness of the steak and the temperature of your grill or frying pan. Here's how restaurant chefs decide sear the steak lightly on both sides to brown.
1 Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 2  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 3  Always use tongs to handle steak as they won't pierce the meat, allowing the juices to escape. 1 Rather than oiling the pan, brush the steak with oil to prevent it sticking. 2  Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 3
Once the grill has heated up you can place the steak on it. Cook the steak for four minutes and then flip it over. Cook the back side for four minutes and then check the steak's internal temperature with a meat thermometer. It should read between 125 and 135 degrees Fahrenheit. A medium steak is one that still has some pink in the center, but is not blood red like a rare steak. To make your steak a medium one you must first get the grill heated up. Place the steak on it and time out eight minutes. When the eight minutes is up, you will need to flip the steak and cook it another
6. Cook the steak for anywhere from 3 to 6 minutes per side, depending on thickness and desired doneness. A thicker cut will obviously require longer cooking, while a thinner cut will get cooked quicker. 
A one inch steak at room temperature on a preheated, hot grill should cook 2 min a side for rare, 3.5 min a side for medium rare, 5 min a side for medium and so on.. add a min … ute and half for each degree of doneness. DON'T poke or cut the steak while cooking, you will dry it out. We only flip once at about 15 minutes. That gives you a medium well steak. It will vary depending on the thickness of the steak and the temperature of your grill or frying pan. Here's how restaurant chefs decide sear the steak lightly on both sides to brown.
Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes
The time will vary depending on the cooking method and the thickness of the steak. A normal steak cut is about 3/4 of an inch thick and on average, the cooking temp on a grill … is 300-350of. With these, an average of about 8 minutes per side will leave a bit of red in the center. To be safe, check it a bit early by cutting a small slice in the middle of the steak. We only flip once at about 15 minutes. That gives you a medium well steak. It will vary depending on the thickness of the steak and the temperature of your grill or frying pan. Here's how restaurant chefs decide sear the steak lightly on both sides to brown.
Cook 1 to 2 minutes without moving; turn steaks with tongs, and cook another 1 to 2 minutes. 4. Transfer the pan with the seared steaks to the hot oven. Roast in the center of the oven until the steaks are cooked to your liking, about 3 to 5 minutes. Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness: 
You must cook the steak a little longer than medium in order to achieve this. Get your grill hot and then place your steak on it. Cook the steak for 12 minutes and then flip it over. Time another 12 minutes and then check the internal temperature of the steak. A medium steak is one that still has some pink in the center, but is not blood red like a rare steak. To make your steak a medium one you must first get the grill heated up. Place the steak on it and time out eight minutes. When the eight minutes is up, you will need to flip the steak and cook it another