Rheem air conditioners. Rheem Manufacturing Company was established in the mid-1920s by Richard and Donald Rheem. The company began selling HVAC systems in the 1960s and 1970s. Today it's a leading global producer of efficient heating, cooling and water heating products. Posted on Mar 27, 2013 by | Tags: HVAC, install central A/C, Trane, Rheem. One is more expensive than the other, yet has a better energy rating. Find out which one in this Trane vs Rheem air conditioner guide.
Rheem heat pumps are among the highest-rated in the industry. Rheem makes three lines of heat pumps that meet the heating and cooling needs of a wide range of consumers. In this Rheem heat pumps overview, you’ll learn about the company, its products and their costs. Facts About Rheem. 
Chances are, the last thing you think about is your air conditioner. You just expect to be comfortable. That’s why Rheem is the best choice you can make. We simply offer the finest air conditioning solutions in the business. Top-quality, innovative products with the latest technology, dependable performance, great warranties and excellent service and support. 
Rheem makes residential and commercial central air conditioners, furnaces, heat pumps and water heaters. Rheem is privately held and headquartered in Atlanta. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Paloma Industries, which is part of the Paloma Group, a privately-held company headquartered in Nagoya, Japan. The Paloma Group reports its annual revenue to be approximately $3.0 billion.
The Rheem Manufacturing Company was subsequently organized in 1930 and bought out Pacific Galvanizing and acquired the Republic Steel package company, which also had a plant in Richmond, California. Republic Steel made boilers and tanks, which allowed Rheem to enter the business of water heating. The company is one of the largest manufacturers of both water heating and HVAC equipment in the United States, and also produces and markets products in Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Canada, Iraq, Kuwait, Mexico, New Zealand, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, UAE, and Ukraine. Contents.
The company is named for its founders, brothers Richard and Donald Rheem. The brothers initially began manufacturing galvanized steel drums in 1925 as a co-partnership with Pacific Galvanizing Company in Emeryville, California. The company is one of the largest manufacturers of both water heating and HVAC equipment in the United States, and also produces and markets products in Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Canada, Iraq, Kuwait, Mexico, New Zealand, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, UAE, and Ukraine. Contents.
Buying a heating and air conditioning system for your home is a major financial investment. When comparing Trane vs. Rheem HVAC units, you'll need to look at both outdoor and indoor units. Most outdoor compressor units last between 10 to 15 years, and the lifespan of a furnace is between 15 and 20 years. Posted on Mar 27, 2013 by | Tags: HVAC, install central A/C, Trane, Rheem. One is more expensive than the other, yet has a better energy rating. Find out which one in this Trane vs Rheem air conditioner guide.
This overview of Rheem HVAC equipping will inform you about the split systems and package systems that are available. Split systems are produced by pairing Rheem components such as central air conditioners with gas furnaces. Rheem is one of the most trusted names in the HVAC industry. Since its birth in the 1920s, the company has been an innovator in affordable, efficient heating and cooling products. Here’s an overview of the three series Rheem makes we offer HVAC reviews of most – if not all – of the individual units Rheem makes. Rheem Prestige Series: This top of the line series is very efficient – all units are Energy Star rated. Modulating and two-stage furnaces and 2-stage heat pumps offer outstanding comfort.
Rheem Manufacturing Company is an American privately held manufacturer that produces residential and commercial water heaters and boilers, as well as heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment. The company is one of the largest manufacturers of both water heating and HVAC equipment in the United States, and also produces and markets products in Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Canada, Iraq, Kuwait, Mexico, New Zealand, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, UAE, and Ukraine. Contents.