A Game of Thrones. Alongside his cousin Tyrek, Lancel serves as squire to King Robert Baratheon, and is directly responsible for his death: on the request of Queen Cersei Lannister, he provides the king with a large dose of strongwine as Robert tracks an enormous boar while hunting in the Kingswood. The boar slays Robert. Tyrion Lannister suspects the affair and gets Lancel to admit to it, blackmailing him into spying on Cersei for him. Lancel is present for, and survives, the Riot of King's Landing. Lancel fights in the Battle of the Blackwater, though he is severely injured. For his services, Lancel's uncle and Hand of the King Lord Tywin Lannister names him the new Lord of Darry in the Riverlands, as a sop to his brother and Lancel's father, Ser Kevan Lannister
Lancel Lannister is the son of Ser Kevan Lannister and the nephew of Lord Tywin Lannister and thus the cousin of Jaime, Cersei and Tyrion Lannister. He is King Robert Baratheon's squire. Lancel Lannister: The Hand of the King would like me to tell you to tell the King that... Joffrey Baratheon: If I tell the Hound to cut you in half, he'll do it without a second thought. Tyrion Lannister: That would make me the quarter-man.
Please try again later. Lancel Lannister is the son of Ser Kevan Lannister and the nephew of Lord Tywin Lannister, the head of House Lannister and Lord of Casterly Rock. He is the first cousin of Jaime, Cersei, and Tyrion Lannister. He has the familial blond hair and resembles his cousin Jaime. He is a squire to King Robert Baratheon. 
Lancel Lannister (Eugene Simon) : You’d be forgiven if you didn’t recognize Cersei’s cousin Lancel (Kevan’s son!) without his luxurious blonde hair but he’s the Sparrow (religious zealot) Cersei speaks to at her father’s wake. You might remember that when Jamie was gone, Cersei took Lancel to bed with her. 
Cersei Lannister is the eldest child of Tywin and Joanna Lannister by mere moments, and the twin sister of Jaime Lannister. After Robert's Rebellion she married the new king, Robert Baratheon, and became Queen of the Seven Kingdoms. She is the mother of Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen of House Baratheon of King's Landing. 
841 pages on this wiki. Lancel Lannister is cousin to Cersei and Jaime Lannister, his father Kevan Lannister is the younger sibling of Tywin Lannister. Lancel serves as squire to King Robert Baratheon. Lancel is given very strong wine by Queen Cersei that is several times stronger than Robert is used to and told to give him as much as possible when Robert is hunting in the Kingswood. King Robert is killed by a wild boar.
Cersei Lannister is a major character in the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth seasons. She is portrayed by starring cast member Lena Headey and debuts in the series premiere. Cersei is the widow of King Robert Baratheon and Queen Regent of the Seven Kingdoms. She is the daughter of Lord Tywin Lannister, twin sister of Jaime Lannister and elder sister of Tyrion Lannister. 
Lancel Lannister. Lancel Lannister is the son of Ser Kevan Lannister and the nephew of Lord Tywin Lannister, the head of House Lannister and Lord of Casterly Rock. He is the first cousin of Jaime, Cersei, and Tyrion Lannister. He has the familial blond hair and resembles his cousin Jaime. He is a squire to King Robert Baratheon