Advantages of Rayon Fiber. Rayon’s cellulosic base contributes many properties similar to those of cotton or other natural cellulosic fibers. Rayon is moisture absorbent (more so than cotton), breathable, comfortable to wear, and easily dyed in vivid colors. It does not build up static electricity, nor will it pill unless the fabric is made from short, low-twist yarns. Care of Rayon. The critical element in successful care of rayon is the type of fiber. Regular or viscose rayons usually require dry cleaning for best results, while high wet modulus, high wet strength or polynosic rayons, will normally machine wash and tumble dry satisfactorily (see Fiber Types and Cautions sections).
Best Answer: No, nylon is not breathable. Neither is rayon, polyester, acrylic, spandex, or lycra. The breatheable fabrics are all natural fibers, not man-made: cotton, linen, wool. 
Not as warm as wool, can irritate the skin. Viscose or rayon. Viscose is a viscous organic liquid used to make rayon and cellophane. Viscose is becoming synonymous with rayon, a soft material commonly used in shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear. Viscose rayon has a silky appearance and feel, breathable similar to cotton, inexpensive.
Rayon is defined by the process by which it is made, not the material to make it. Rayon can be made by wood pulp, cotton, and bamboo. Rayon is in fact a “natural” fabric since it does not use man made materials. The process to make rayon, however, can have harmful environmental effects. Many consumers of bamboo buy products made with it because they feel it is organic, natural, and chemical free.
Because rayon is manufactured from naturally occurring polymers, it is considered a semi-synthetic fiber. Specific types of rayon include viscose, modal and lyocell, each of which differs in manufacturing process and properties of the finished product. While rayon may be produced from bamboo as a raw material, and both rayon and bamboo may be used for similar fabrics, rayon is so far removed from bamboo by chemical processing that the two are entirely separate.
Of all the fibers, rayon is probably the most perplexing to consumers. It can be found in cotton-like end uses, as well as sumptuous velvets and taffetas. It may function successfully in absorbent hygiene and incontinence pads and equally well providing strength in tire cords. Rayon is probably the most misunderstood of all fibers. It is not a natural fiber, yet it is not synthetic. It is a fiber formed by regenerating natural materials into a usable form. Rayon fibers and fabrics made from them have many desirable properties.
Rayon is a versatile fiber and is widely claimed to have the same comfort properties as natural fibers, although the drape and slipperiness of rayon textiles are often more like nylon. It can imitate the feel and texture of silk, wool, cotton and linen. The fibers are easily dyed in a wide range of colors. While rayon may be produced from bamboo as a raw material, and both rayon and bamboo may be used for similar fabrics, rayon is so far removed from bamboo by chemical processing that the two are entirely separate.
Although rayon can look like wool, silk, cotton, or linen and is a manufactured fiber like polyester, this does not mean it behaves like or has the same properties or care requirements of these fibers. Rayon is a fiber on its own. Rayon is probably the most misunderstood of all fibers. It is not a natural fiber, yet it is not synthetic. It is a fiber formed by regenerating natural materials into a usable form. Rayon fibers and fabrics made from them have many desirable properties.
Rayon. Rayon is a very versatile fiber with a wide array of applications. It has the same comfort properties as natural fibers and is easily dyed in a wide range of colors. Rayon is breathable and does not insulate body heat, making it ideal for use in clothing worn in hot and humid climates.
Rayon is a manufactured fiber made from regenerated cellulose derived from plant materials such as bamboo. Rayon fabrics are very soft and breathable. As one of the world’s oldest manufactured fibers, rayon is used for a variety of textiles including underwear. Most underwear manufacturers mix with rayon with other fabric blends to achieve a stretchable fit. 