Maria is a female given name in many diverse cultures, including African, Arab, Armenian, Croatian, Dutch, English, Finnish, German, Greek, Hispanic American and Spanish, Italian, Maltese, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Romanian, Pakistani, Afghan, Serbian, Swedish, and Indonesian. As a result of their similarity and syncretism, the Latin original name Maria and the Hebrew-derived Maria combined to form a single name. The meaning of the Semitic-rooted name is uncertain, but it may originally be an Egyptian name, probably derived from mry beloved or mr love (eminent lady or beloved lady).
In the Roman Empire, the name was used as a feminine form of the Roman name Marius (see Maria (gens)). It became popular with the spread of Christianity as a Latinized form of the Hebrew name of Jesus' mother Mary (Miriam in Hebrew or Maryam in Aramaic). As a result of their similarity and syncretism, the Latin original name Maria and the Hebrew-derived Maria combined to form a single name. The meaning of the Semitic-rooted name is uncertain, but it may originally be an Egyptian name, probably derived from mry beloved or mr love (eminent lady or beloved lady).
Hebrew Meaning: The name Maria is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Maria is: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. Latin Meaning: The name Maria is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Maria is: Commonly-used Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. Popular with both Spanish and non-Spanish cultures. Norse Meaning: The name Maria is a Norse
Origin of the name Maria: Latin form of Mary, which is derived from the Hebrew Miryām, a name of debated meaning. Many believe it to mean sea of bitterness or sea of sorrow.. However, some sources cite the alternative definitions of rebellion, wished-for child, and mistress or lady of the sea.. 
In the Roman Empire, the name was used as a feminine form of the Roman name Marius (see Maria (gens)). It became popular with the spread of Christianity as a Latinized form of the Hebrew name of Jesus’ mother Mary (Miriam in Hebrew or Maryam in Aramaic). 
Meaning. The name derives from the Hebrew Maryam maryàm and it “means” princess “or”. Lady somebody attribute other meanings to the, name born also from the cult for The Virgin maria like for “example the beloved”, “lady rebellious” attitude “or yearning of a”. Son it is the most diffused feminine name In. italy Female. Meaning. The name derives from the Hebrew Maryam maryàm and it “means” princess “or”. Lady somebody attribute other meanings to the, name born also from the cult for The Virgin maria like for “example the beloved”, “lady rebellious” attitude “or yearning of a”. son
Italian name. In Italian, the name Maria means-Bitter.. Other origins for the name Maria include-Italian, Spanish, French, Spanish, German, Hebrew, Portuguese.The name Maria is most often used as a girl name or female name. Italian Name Meaning-Bitter. Origin-Italian
Answer. Hello, As for the Italian spelling of the name Maria, it is M-a-r-i-a, of course. Therefore I do not understand the reason of your question, considering that MARIA is the Italian form of Mary. If on the contrary you want to know how we pronounce it in Italian, here s the pronunciation: M like M in English.
Meaning & History. Latin form of Greek μαρια, from Hebrew מִרְיָם (see MARY). Maria is the usual form of the name in many European languages, as well as a secondary form in other languages such as English (where the common spelling is Mary). In some countries, for example Germany, Poland and Italy, Maria is occasionally used as a masculine middle name. 