Magnesium overdose, which is technically known as hypermagnesemia, is when there is too much magnesium in the blood. Although rare, it can occur in those with chronic health conditions.
There is the balance of calcium to magnesium to be kept in the range of 1:1 to 2:1. If you take more magnesium than calcium, then you are going to upset your calcium balance. However, this is not an issue for people whose dairy intake is high. Most people today are getting too much calcium and not enough magnesium. The ratio of minerals and vitamins to each other is important.
A. Both magnesium and potassium are used for many different biological reactions within the body and are vital for life. However, just as other elements and vitamins, there is a range that is important for functioning. Too little, and the body doesn’t function. Too much can cause toxicity issues and side effects.
An easy way to remember foods that are good magnesium sources is to think fiber. Foods that are high in fiber are generally high in magnesium. Dietary sources of magnesium include legumes, whole grains, vegetables (especially broccoli, squash, and green leafy vegetables), seeds, and nuts (especially almonds).
Magnesium is found in a variety of foods, especially those with a lot of fiber. Nuts, leafy greens, legumes, whole grains, and even fish are among the best sources. Some of the specific foods high in magnesium are: 1  almonds. 2  spinach. 3  cashews.
The earliest symptoms of magnesium toxicity are often gastrointestinal. Magnesium acts as a laxative, and diarrhea is frequently the first symptom of too much magnesium intake. Additional gastrointestinal symptoms might also occur, such as stomach upset, nausea, vomiting and abdominal cramping.
However, too much magnesium from nonfood sources, such as magnesium salts, has been shown to cause mild to severe toxicity. Symptoms can range from diarrhea, nausea and abdominal cramps to difficulty breathing, extremely low blood pressure and irregular heartbeat.