It is true that EtG can be detected in chronic drinkers for 80 hours or even up to 5 days. During this period of chronic use, the EtG level can exceed 100,000 ng/mL. Two primary factors to determine the window of detection is based on volume of alcohol consumed and the time between each drink. EtG ALCOHOL TEST-URINE. Alcohol is rapidly eliminated from the body at a rate of approximately one drink per hour. Whether looking for alcohol in breath, blood, saliva or urine, using the standard technology, the rapid elimination limits the detection of alcohol to a matter of hours.
With the EtG Urine Alcohol Test, nevertheless, the presence of EtG in the urine reveals that ethanol alcohol was consumed within the past 80 hours or so (which could mean many hours after the ethanol alcohol has been metabolized by the body). A moment's reflection on what this means will be worthwhile. No, the EtG Urine Alcohol Test cannot show how much alcohol a person ingested, but it can, by way of comparison, detect alcohol consumption after the alcohol has been metabolized by the body.
Best Answer: well, alcohol is a diuretic, causing your body to void urine and flush the system. It's the metabolites of the alcohol that are present in a urine screen for about 12 hours. Which is relevent to the amount of alcohol consumed...the more you drink, 12 hours turns to 24 hours and so on. 
Alcohol (EtOh) can be detected up to 1- 1-1/2 days after consumption. EtG, a byproduct produced in our livers after alcohol is metabolized can be detected for up to 3-4 days a … fter the last drink. Yes it can. I have been doing research about this topic and also I have been hearing this topic during health classes. Some teenagers take the urine tests and they say it is w … rong, but my research indicates that urine tests are 99% accurate.   Also, drugs alcohol can be detected in urine for about 2-3 days. Many factors determine how long a particular drug can be detected in a person, including that person's age, weight, sex, metabolic rate, overall health, amount of drug consumed over what period of time, etc
Different tests are capable of detecting the presence of alcohol for different time periods. Here is a list of alcohol drug tests and the answer to how long is alcohol detectable in urine with each test. Breathalyzer Test: 24 hours. Urine Test: 9-13 hours (if traditional method used). Urine Test: 72-96 hours (if done using EGT (Ethyl Gluconoride) metabolite). So, the question of how long alcohol is detectable in urine or how long does alcohol stay in your system depends on the rate at which your body would break it down. Usually, normal human beings metabolize wine at about the same rate which is around 0.015 BAC per 60 minutes.
Usually, alcohol would stay within your system for around 24 hours after you have had a few drinks and this would be the time period during which it would be detectable in your urine. However, there are a few special tests which can detect its presence in urine for up to 48 hours. So, the question of how long alcohol is detectable in urine or how long does alcohol stay in your system depends on the rate at which your body would break it down. Usually, normal human beings metabolize wine at about the same rate which is around 0.015 BAC per 60 minutes.
Best Answer: EtG is a direct metabolite of beverage alcohol (ethanol). Its presence in urine may be used to detect recent alcohol consumption, even after ethanol is no longer measurable. The presence of EtG in urine is a definitive indicator that alcohol was ingested. EtG is detectable in urine for up to 80 hours after the elimination of alcohol. EtG is only evident when alcohol is consumed and is not produced as a result of fermentation. Source(s): http://www.redwoodtoxicology.com/landing...
With the EtG Urine Alcohol Test, conversely, the presence of EtG in the urine reveals that ethanol alcohol was ingested within the past 3 or 4 days, or roughly 80 hours after the ethanol alcohol has been metabolized by the person's body. No, the EtG Urine Alcohol Test cannot show how much alcohol a person ingested, but it can, by way of comparison, detect alcohol consumption after the alcohol has been metabolized by the body.
ETG can be detected for 3-4 days roughly 80 hours after the body has reached a BAC of 0.00. ETG is used for cases where there is a zero tolerance policy of drinking. Obviously the alcohol has left the system but this test can tell if a person has drank alcohol in the past 80 hours. 