Sushi usually refers to the representative type of Hayazushi, namely edomae nigirizushi. In nigiri-zushi, wasabi (Japanese horseradish) is dabbed onto the fish or shellfish, and placed on top of an oblong of shari, another word for vinegar rice like sushimeshi or sumeshi. This form of sushi emerged during the latter of the Edo Period (1716-1864). The most important point is whether you can gently grasp the whole piece of sushi while making sure that the topping and the rice don’t become spread or not. People who do not like having sticky hands may want to use chopsticks. Sushi was however traditionally eaten by hand and doing so is not rude whatsoever.
Let's start at the beginning. The word sushi is actually a combination of two Japanese words: su, which is the Japanese word for vinegar, and shi, which is a word (suffix) meaning rice. From this it follows fairly obviously that, contrary to popular belief, sushi does not mean raw fish. 
• There are mainly three types of Sushi as Maki Sushi, Nigiri Sushi, and Oshi-Sushi. • Maki is a special type of sushi. It is also referred to as rolled sushi. • When sushi is rolled into a cylindrical shape inside a wrapping of either seaweed, bamboo mat, or even an omlette, Maki is formed. So, it is the presentation method that changes Maki from Sushi.
Sushi is the most popular Japanese dish known worldwide. Sushi is mainly cooked rice with vinegar combined with other ingredients, usually raw fish or other seafood. Sushi is mainly made up of two parts, shari and neta. Shari is the cooked rice with vinegar, while neta refers to the various other ingredients. There are many types of sushi; nigiri-zushi (hand shaped sushi), oshi-zushi (pressed sushi), maki-zushi (rolled sushi) and chirashi-zushi (scattered sushi). Sushi, literally translated means sour tasting, this is mainly because of the vinegar rice and fermented fish, which was originally used to make sushi. 1 Oshizushi – pressed sushi in the shape of a square. 2  Ingredients are topped with rice which is pressed together with the help of a wooden mold. 3  Makizushi – neta (fish and other ingredients) rolled in shari and nori (seaweed) with the help of a bamboo mat (makisu).
Sushi can be prepared with either brown or white rice. It is often prepared with raw seafood, but some common varieties of sushi use cooked ingredients or are vegetarian. Raw fish (or occasionally other meat) sliced and served without rice is called  sashimi . Sushi is often served with pickled ginger (ガリ gari), wasabi, and soy sauce. Makizushi (巻き寿司, rolled sushi), norimaki (海苔巻き,  Nori roll) or makimono (巻物, variety of rolls) is a cylindrical piece, formed with the help of a bamboo mat known as a makisu (巻簾).
Sushi vs Maki. Difference between Sushi can Maki is in what a cook uses to prepare each dish. Sushi is perhaps the best known Japanese food dish to the outside world. It is a recipe that consists of rice and fish with a flavor of vinegar. • Maki is a special type of sushi. It is also referred to as rolled sushi. • When sushi is rolled into a cylindrical shape inside a wrapping of either seaweed, bamboo mat, or even an omlette, Maki is formed. So, it is the presentation method that changes Maki from Sushi.
The original type of sushi, known today as nare-zushi (馴れ寿司, 熟寿司 ,) was first made in Southeast Asia, maybe along what is also known as the Mekong River. Makizushi (巻き寿司, rolled sushi), norimaki (海苔巻き,  Nori roll) or makimono (巻物, variety of rolls) is a cylindrical piece, formed with the help of a bamboo mat known as a makisu (巻簾).
To put it into simple terms, sushi is indeed raw fish over a clump of rice. Sushi is one of the most popular dishes in Japanese cuisine, and is probably the most famous throughout the world. When the raw fish is served without the rice, the dish is referred to as sashimi. However, it should be noted that not all sushi is served raw. Certain sushi dishes, like unagi (eel) or ebi (shrimp), are actually cooked in some form.
== Sushi == There is a range of types, but one of the most popular is tuna. Remember that the word 'sushi' doesn't actually refer to raw fish, but a boiled rice dish. Lots of sushi does not actually contain fish. The concern about eating sushi when pregnant is because of the fish... it's thought that these days, because of pollution, there is enough mercury in ocean-caught fish t … o be a health risk, and this applies to both cooked and raw fish (mercury is a metal and does not cook out).
The sushi chef tends to mainly make sushi with seasonal ingredients. Some sushi is further dressed with a sauce, sprinkled with salt, or decorated with seasonings such as ginger or chives. The most important point is whether you can gently grasp the whole piece of sushi while making sure that the topping and the rice don’t become spread or not. People who do not like having sticky hands may want to use chopsticks. Sushi was however traditionally eaten by hand and doing so is not rude whatsoever.