Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. The mucosa, also known as the mucous membrane, is a soft, moist and pink layer of cells that lines several passages and cavities of the body with openings exposed to the external environment. The glans penis is considered a mucosa. Mucosa is commonly found in the respiratory tract. The mucosa can be found in the body's urinary tracts. Mucosa is commonly found in the body's digestive tract.
Oral mucosa. The oral mucosa is the mucous membrane lining the inside of the mouth and consists of stratified squamous epithelium termed oral epithelium and an underlying connective tissue termed lamina propria. The oral cavity has sometimes been described as a mirror that reflects the health of the individual. 
mucosa (mūkō´sə) , n (mucous membrane), a membrane, composed of epithelium and lamina propria. mucosa, alveolar, n the covering on the alveolar process loosely attached to bone that extends from the mucogingival junction to the vestibular epithelium and from the mandible to the sublingual sulcus. Q. what is fragments of endocervical glandular mucosa with inflammation and squamous metaplasia fragments of endocervical glandular mucosa. A. It means that part of the mucose on the cervix area has changes from a certain kind of mucose cells to another, and that there is a bit of an inflammation around it.
It is associated with lining mucosa. See also mucosa, oral. mucosa, oral, n the mucous membrane lining of the oral cavity, composed of stratified squamous epithelium and the underlying lamina propria. mucosa, palatine, n the mucosa covering the palate. Q. what is fragments of endocervical glandular mucosa with inflammation and squamous metaplasia fragments of endocervical glandular mucosa. A. It means that part of the mucose on the cervix area has changes from a certain kind of mucose cells to another, and that there is a bit of an inflammation around it.
The gastric mucosa is the mucous membrane layer of the stomach which contains the glands and the gastric pits. In humans it is about 1 mm thick and its surface is smooth, soft, and velvety. It consists of epithelium, lamina propria, and the muscularis mucosae. In its fresh state, it is of a pinkish tinge at the pyloric end and of a red or reddish-brown color over the rest of its surface.
(Redirected from Mucosa). A mucous membrane or mucosa (plural, mucosae or mucosas; Latin tunica mucosa) is a lining of mostly endodermal origin. It consists of an epithelium (a layer, or layers of epithelial cells) and an underlying lamina propria of loose connective tissue. They are at several places contiguous with skin: at the nostrils, the lips of the mouth, the eyelids, the ears, the trachea, the stomach, the genital area, and the anus. Mucus prevents pathogens and dirt from entering the body and prevents bodily tissue from losing moisture.
Description of Mucosa. Mucosa: The moist, inner lining of some organs and body cavities (such as the nose, mouth, lungs, and stomach). Glands in the mucosa make mucus (a thick, slippery fluid). Also called mucous membrane. Source: National Institute of Health. Mucosa: mucus-secreting membrane lining all body cavities or passages that communicate with the exterior
A mucous membrane or mucosa (plural, mucosae or mucosas; Latin tunica mucosa) is a lining of mostly endodermal origin. They are at several places contiguous with skin: at the nostrils, the lips of the mouth, the eyelids, the ears, the trachea, the stomach, the genital area, and the anus. Mucus prevents pathogens and dirt from entering the body and prevents bodily tissue from losing moisture.
The intestinal mucosa is another notable type of the mucous membrane. It lines the innermost layer of the body's intestines and is really a combination of three types of tissue: the epithelium, lamina propria and muscularis mucosae. The glans penis is considered a mucosa. Mucosa is commonly found in the respiratory tract. The mucosa can be found in the body's urinary tracts. Mucosa is commonly found in the body's digestive tract.