Talk to a Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. Juvenile courts have a wide range of sentencing options (usually called disposition orders) that they can impose on juveniles or youth offenders who are found to be delinquent (that is, finding that the minor violated a criminal law). 
Goals. The goals of community service are to: 1  Hold offenders accountable for the harm they have caused to the community. 2  Provide communities with human resources that can improve the quality of life in public environments, business, and even individual residences. 3  Help offenders develop new skills through supervised work activities. Community service is effectively used in all 50 states and at the federal level as a component of criminal sentences and juvenile adjudications involving diversion, probation, and parole.
The Juvenile Community Service & Restitution Program. This program works with youth who have committed crimes in Orange County and are assigned community service hours. Young people are placed in nonprofit work sites throughout the county where volunteer supervisors oversee and evaluate their work
Residents in a community can enhance efforts of the criminal and juvenile justice systems by providing meaningful work experiences, volunteering to supervise offenders sentenced to community service, and serving as mentors for adjudicated youth in community service capacities. Community service is effectively used in all 50 states and at the federal level as a component of criminal sentences and juvenile adjudications involving diversion, probation, and parole.
What is Community Service. Community Service is one requirement a court may impose on a juvenile. Community Service provides juveniles a meaningful opportunity to contribute to the community, take ownership, and learn responsibility. Juveniles complete this work during non-school hours. Supervised Work Crew: A work crew composed of a group of juveniles that are under constant supervision of a department Work Crew Supervisor or another approved adult. Administrative Community Service: Community Service that is authorized while not on a supervised work crew.
The Community Services Unit members include but are not limited to Juvenile Court Mediators, Child Protective Services Liaisons, Mental Health Liaisons, Family in Need of Services (FINS) Probation Officers and Juvenile Court Guides. 
There is no guarantee that a request to be placed on juvenile probation or do community service will result in a juvenile not being placed in a detention center. Many juveniles choose not to be placed on juvenile probation or ordered to do community service. They feel that they cannot abide by the restrictions for these sentences. For juvenile probation, these may include curfew, and the requirement to report to a juvenile probation officer regularly. A juvenile who has no way of reaching a location to do community service may not be sentenced to community service. The purpose of the juvenile justice system is to rehabilitate rather than punish. The judge's sentence is an effort to change how the juvenile acts.
The juvenile should state, at the sentencing hearing, that they want to be placed on juvenile probation and do community service to avoid being placed in a juvenile detention center. Judges will not automatically consider these options in sentencing. A juvenile who has no way of reaching a location to do community service may not be sentenced to community service. The purpose of the juvenile justice system is to rehabilitate rather than punish. The judge's sentence is an effort to change how the juvenile acts.