A rabbit that is spayed has is virtually prone to cancers such as ovarian, uterine and others such as mammarian. According to Rabbits.org, a spayed rabbit is calmer, it’s going to love you more and it tends to be more dependable. The cost of spaying your rabbit is going to greatly vary on a few different factors. 1  In your less populated area where the cost of living is relatively low, the prices can range anywhere from $85 to $200. 2  On average, most of your typical clinics are going to charge anywhere from $150 to $300. 
1 For those that live in a higher, populated metro area, the rabbit neutering cost can be anywhere from $175 to $475 due to the higher rent costs and cost of living. A neutering procedure today for a rabbit is relatively safe. Out of every 1,000 rabbits that are neutered, approximately .1% have a mortality rate, and this is widely due to the anesthesia. The pricing for neutering is going to vary on a few different factors
1 The low end for the surgery itself is going to cost anywhere from $100 to as much as $275. 2  For those that live in a higher, populated metro area, the rabbit neutering cost can be anywhere from $175 to $475 due to the higher rent costs and cost of living. 3  In Montana for example, the prices will vary $80 to $125. A neutering procedure today for a rabbit is relatively safe. Out of every 1,000 rabbits that are neutered, approximately .1% have a mortality rate, and this is widely due to the anesthesia. The pricing for neutering is going to vary on a few different factors
While the rabbits have not been neutered yet, it is always advisable to keep them separated. The Average Cost Of Neutering a Rabbit. Neutering a female rabbit is more expensive and the expenses usually depend on your veterinarian. The low end for the procedure alone costs somewhere between $150 to as high as $300. But for those living in a superior, populated metro area, the procedure can cost about $200 to $500 because of the higher cost of living. 
In my neck of the woods it will cost you $140 - $230 at a vet. This is typical. However if you have a clinic or shelter that does low-cost spay/neuter for rabbits then you may pay as little as $50. This is rare but worth the research to find one. I'd suggesting making sure your male is actually a male and your female is a female. If they are over six weeks old then you should be able to tell
Best Answer: It really depends on where you live. If you go to this website http://www.rabbit.org they can give you a listing of vets and then you can call and get their rate. If you adopt from a shelter from now on the cost of a spay/neuter will usually be included in the adoption fee.
What does the surgery cost? Spay/neuter costs vary tremendously in different areas of the country. The low end of the range can be as inexpensive as $50-75 (often in spay/neuter clinics), while vets in major metropolitan areas, where rents and labor costs are very high, often charge several hundred dollars. 1 A knowledgeable rabbit veterinarian can spay or neuter your rabbit with very little risk to a healthy rabbit. 2  Don’t allow a veterinarian with little or no experience with rabbits to spay or neuter your rabbit.
1 Spaying and neutering for rabbits has become a safe procedure when performed by experienced rabbit veterinarians. 2  The House Rabbit Society has had over 1000 rabbits spayed or neutered with approximately .1% mortality due to anesthesia. 1 A knowledgeable rabbit veterinarian can spay or neuter your rabbit with very little risk to a healthy rabbit. 2  Don’t allow a veterinarian with little or no experience with rabbits to spay or neuter your rabbit.
Cost of feline neuter If you have available in your city a LOW COST SPAY & NEUTER CLINIC the cost is anywhere from $15.00 to 25.00. Regular payment approx. $40.00 Another Answ … er: It is usually around $40-60, it depends on where you get it done. Variety of Options, From No-to Low-Cost. The cost of neutering a male cat varies from about fifty to a hundred bucks, depending on the vet you go to. There are also a few organizations depending on your state that wi … ll sometimes do it in a certain period of time in a year for free or at a discount.