Definition: A rollover IRA is a type of retirement account that you can use to hold money transferred from other employer retirement accounts, such as 401(k) accounts or profit-sharing plans. Move the money to a rollover IRA: Of all of these choices, a rollover IRA makes a lot of sense. Each time you move from one job to the next, you can roll your latest 401(k) plan into your rollover IRA and the investments that you choose.
DEFINITION of 'IRA Rollover'. A transfer of funds from a retirement account into a Traditional IRA or a Roth IRA. This can occur either through a direct transfer or by a check, which the custodian of the distributing account writes to the account holder who then deposits it into another IRA account. Next Up.
An Individual Retirement Account or IRA, is a form of individual retirement plan , provided by many financial institutions, that provides tax advantages for retirement savings in the United States. 
IRA rollovers can occur from a retirement account such as a 401(k) into an IRA, or as an IRA to IRA transfer. A rollover can occur into a Roth IRA provided that the individual's adjusted gross income is below a certain level in the tax year in which the rollover occurs. A transfer of funds from a retirement account into a Traditional IRA or a Roth IRA. This can occur either through a direct transfer or by a check, which the custodian of the distributing account writes to the account holder who then deposits it into another IRA account. Next Up.
BREAKING DOWN 'IRA Rollover'. If the transfer is done by check, there will be a 20% withholding penalty applied before the custodian issues the check. To avoid the 20% penalty, the rollover must take place directly from one custodian to another. Many IRAs will only allow one rollover per year on an IRA to IRA transfer. A transfer of funds from a retirement account into a Traditional IRA or a Roth IRA. This can occur either through a direct transfer or by a check, which the custodian of the distributing account writes to the account holder who then deposits it into another IRA account. Next Up.
Normally you pay a penalty for withdrawing money from a 401(k) or IRA before you turn 59 1/2. One exception is when you roll over assets into a different IRA. You can set up an IRA to receive the rollover, or put the money in an established IRA. Withdrawing From Rollover IRAs. If you roll over assets from one of your accounts into an IRA, you treat the rollover account like any other IRA. You can withdraw assets as soon as you turn 59 1/2 -- any earlier and you pay a 10 percent tax penalty on withdrawals.
A Rollover IRA is an IRA that is used to hold assets that have been distributed from an employer's retirement plan, such as a 401(k) or Profit Sharing Plan. There is no limit on the amount of money you can rollover. 
A rollover IRA, sometimes also known as a conduit IRA, is the same as a traditional IRA in all respects. The same rules on withdrawals apply, as do the same tax benefits. Rollover IRAs are created when a person transfers money out of an employer retirement plan like a 401k, 403b or 457 plan. A rollover IRA can be changed to a traditional IRA at any time. The IRS treats all rollover IRA accounts as traditional IRAs.
In fact, a traditional IRA can be used as a rollover, or conduit, IRA. The purpose of a rollover IRA is to segregate retirement funds that may be eligible to be transferred into an employer-sponsored retirement plan, such as a 401k or 403b ,from funds that are not eligible for such transfers. Without this segregation, many retirement plans will not accept incoming transfers from an IRA. Rollover IRAs are created when a person transfers money out of an employer retirement plan like a 401k, 403b or 457 plan. A rollover IRA can be changed to a traditional IRA at any time. The IRS treats all rollover IRA accounts as traditional IRAs.