Diseases Viral diseases Hemorrhagic diseaseHemorrhagic disease is an infectious disease of white-tailed deer, with outbreaks occurring sporadically in Missouri. Hemorrhagic disease (HD) includes both epizootic hemorrhagic disease (EHD) and bluetongue (BTV) viruses.
In 2013, Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease (EHD) has been diagnosed in 7 deer in 6 counties. The laboratory confirmed deer are from Muskegon, Ottawa, Oceana, Ionia, Berrien, and Allegan counties.
Hemorrhagic Disease. Hemorrhagic Disease is the most important infectious disease of white-tailed deer, and outbreaks occur almost every year in the Southeast. It is caused by either of two closely related viruses, epizootic hemorrhagic disease (EHD) virus or bluetongue virus.
Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease Hemorrhagic Disease is the most important infectious disease of white-tailed deer, and outbreaks occur almost every year in the Southeast. It is caused by either of two closely related viruses, epizootic hemorrhagic disease (EHD) virus or bluetongue virus.
Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease (EHD) is a viral disease found in whitetailed deer and in some other ruminants. Unlike Chronic Wasting Disease, EHD is spread by the biting midge not by deer to deer contact. The biting midge is a small, flying insect typically associated with isolated water sources.
Epizootic hemorrhagic disease (EHD) is an acute, infectious, often fatal viral disease of some wild ruminants. This malady, characterized by extensive hemorrhages, has been responsible for significant epizootics in deer in the northern United States and southern Canada.
The result is usually deer suffering from one of two hemorrhagic diseases (HD): epizootic hemorrhagic disease (EHD) or bluetongue virus (BTV).
Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease (EHD) is common to whitetail deer and comes from a virus carried by biting gnats (commonly referred to as No-See-Ums) that live in or near water and wet, muddy areas. The disease is transmitted to deer that frequent such areas in late summer and early fall during the warm, dry weather.