Bail or bond is an amount of money in cash or surety bond for the purpose of making sure that a particular person attends all required court appearances. Bail allows an arrested person (defendant) to be released from jail until his or her case is completed.
General Agents. Because so much is at stake in backing a bail bond, it isn t easy for a new bail agent to obtain the support of a surety company. Until a bail agent acquires the experience necessary to establish a relationship with a surety company, he might need to depend on the support of a general agent (GA).
A GA is a licensed bail agent who is well established in the business and has a strong relationship with his surety company. The surety company qualifies him as a GA, allowing him to sell bonds to other bail agents. The GA acts as an intermediary for the new agent. The GA screens the new bail agent to be sure he is trustworthy and can handle the responsibility. GAs don t work only with new agents.
A surety bail bond agent is a person who is licensed by the Ohio Department of Insurance to sell surety bonds and is authorized to conduct business in the State of Ohio. They are an agent for an insurance company that sells surety bonds. A surety bond is an agreement made between one or more persons and a bond agent where the bond agent agrees to post the necessary bail so that a defendant can be released from jail.
A bail bond is an insurance product that guarantees the appearance of a defendant in court. It involves an legal agreement between the bail agent, insurance company, indemnitor and court that the defendant will show up for all court appearances or be liable for the full amount of the bond to the court.
A surety bond is an agreement made between a person and a bondsman. The bondsman agrees to post the necessary bond so the defendant can be released from jail. This agreement is backed by an insurance company contract signed by the person and the bondsman on behalf of the insurance company.
Bail or bond (in this case, bail and bond mean the same thing) is an amount of money in cash, property, or surety bond for the purpose of making sure that a person attends all required court appearances. Bond allows an arrested person (defendant) to be released from jail until his or her case is completed.