Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl
Directions. 1  Marinate and/or baste salmon with 1/2 of your favorite marinade. 2  Place fish, skin side down in a shallow microwave-safe dish; cover with plastic wrap. 3  Cook, on high, for 7-8 minutes. 4  Remove dish, uncover and baste with the rest of marinade. 5  Recover and cook on medium for 6-7 minutes. 
Microwave the salmon on high for about 1 1/2 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish. Flip the salmon and cook for another 1 1/2 minutes. The salmon is done when it is just beginning to flake. 
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. Pat the salmon dry: Pat the salmon dry with a paper towel. Rub the salmon with oil, salt, and pepper: Drizzle some oil over the top of each salmon — just enough to coat the salmon — and rub it over the salmon with your fingers or a pastry brush. Sprinkle the salmon generously with salt and pepper.
Poached Portions. To cook salmon in liquid, figure on 1 cup of water, wine or broth for every two portions of salmon. After you've put the salmon in a casserole dish or wide, shallow bowl, pour in enough liquid to cover the fish. Float chopped herbs or aromatics into the liquid for extra flavor. Tips. To encourage even cooking when microwaving your salmon, set the thicker parts of the fillets or steaks toward the outer part of the microwave plate or casserole dish. Rearranging or flipping the salmon partway through cooking time can help, especially if you don't have a rotating disk in the microwave.
And you can buy salmon and other fish steaks that say best cooked in microwave. Just put it on a microwave-safe plate, add some lemon juice, soy sauce or a little water, cover it and make sure there are a few holes or a gap in the top. Then cook for 3 - 7 minutes depending on the amount of fish. Place the salmon on a microwaveable plate. You can sprinkle lemon juice, pepper, honey, garlic, onion, soy sauce or anything else that you fancy on it. Cover it with cling film and make sure you pierce a few holes in the cling film. It will then 'steam' cook.
1 Place the salmon skin side down in a microwave save container. 2  Season the salmon with salt and pepper. 3  Set aside. 4  In a small bowl, combine mayonnaise and sriracha sauce. 5  Generously spread the mayonnaise mixture on top of the fillet. 6  Add lemon slices and parsley. 7  Cover the dish tightly with microwave safe plastic wrap. 1 Season the salmon with salt and pepper. 2  Set aside. 3  In a small bowl, combine mayonnaise and sriracha sauce. 4  Generously spread the mayonnaise mixture on top of the fillet. 5  Add lemon slices and parsley. 6  Cover the dish tightly with microwave safe plastic wrap. 7  Microwave the fish for 3.5 minutes.
You will want to rinse the salmon and pat it dry. Season the fish with salt and pepper. Place the salmon in a microwave safe dish and tightly cover it with plastic wrap. Microwave the salmon for 3.5 minutes. Pierce the fish with a fork in the center to check if the salmon is cooked through. If there is no bright flesh in the center, the salmon is ready to eat. 1 Season the salmon with salt and pepper. 2  Set aside. 3  In a small bowl, combine mayonnaise and sriracha sauce. 4  Generously spread the mayonnaise mixture on top of the fillet. 5  Add lemon slices and parsley. 6  Cover the dish tightly with microwave safe plastic wrap. 7  Microwave the fish for 3.5 minutes.