Rodents are a mammal that have insicors in both the upper and lower jaw that grow continuously throughout their life. As such, animals that are classified as rodents include: mice, rats, squirrels, chipmunks, gophers, porcupines, beavers, hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs and the capeobera which can grow to over 40lbs. tiger b · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 3. A rabbit or hare looks like a rodent and the incisors grow continuously like a rodent's teeth, but if you look carefully you can see that it has 6 front incisors instead of 4. Rabbits and hares are pretty close to rodents, and are often lumped in with rodents.
No, rabbits are not considered rodents. They are part of a separate breed called lagomorphs that also includes hares and pikas. Rabbits are actually more closely relat … ed to horses than rats or mice. 
Most animals that does not lay an egg or nest of eggs is mainly considered to be part of the mammal family. Also mammals will usually have fur and/or hair. Humans are one exam … ple of mammals. Other mammals include felines, canines, rodents, Equidie (Horse). Rodentia is an order of mammals also known as rodents, characterized by two continuously-growing incisors in the upper and lower jaws which must be kept short by gnawing. Common rodents include mice, rats, squirrels, chipmunks, gophers, porcupines, beavers, hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs, chinchillas.
Well-known rodents include mice, rats, squirrels, prairie dogs, porcupines, beavers, guinea pigs, hamsters, and capybaras. Other animals such as rabbits, hares and pikas were once included with them, but are now considered to be in a separate order, Lagomorpha. Rodents have been used as food, for clothing, as pets and as laboratory animals in research. Some species, in particular the brown rat, the black rat, and the house mouse are serious pests, eating and spoiling food stored by humans, and spreading diseases.
According to Grandpa, any wild mammal that invades your home or garden is a rodent, often lovingly referred to as a varmint.. This turns out to be not quite so. We know that mice, rats, and hamsters are rodents, but other animals that resemble mice or rats may or may not belong to the order Rodentia. Bats are not rodents. The flying mammals have their own order called Chiroptera. They were once classified in the superorder Archonta which also includes primates, but they are now in the superorder Laurasiatheria along with whales and hoofed animals, but
Animal Info Classification of Animals vertebrates Mammals. Mammals. Mammals are endothermic and are warm blooded animals. Of all the class in the animal world the mammals are considered to be the most advanced and popular class. They are the oldest animals in the world that live from the world of dinosaurs. 
Rodents (from Latin rodere, to gnaw) are mammals of the order Rodentia, which are characterized by a single pair of unremittingly growing incisors in each of the upper and lower jaws. About forty percent of all mammal species are rodents; they are found in vast numbers on all continents except Antarctica. Rodents have been used as food, for clothing, as pets and as laboratory animals in research. Some species, in particular the brown rat, the black rat, and the house mouse are serious pests, eating and spoiling food stored by humans, and spreading diseases.