Compensation is the total amount of the monetary and non-monetary pay provided to an employee by an employer in return for work performed as required. Essentially, it's a combination of your pay, vacation, bonuses, health insurance, and any other perk you may receive, such as free lunches and parking. 
Answers. Best Answer: First check the Current Salary range for that job for freshers and experienced.. Then based on it see what they are offering and then decide based on your requirement If you give a number too low then they might not consider you or put you in a lower position with little room to advance. Too high no consideration. No number then they start at their wage and you have to negotiate upward.
DEFINITION of 'Base Pay'. An employee's initial rate of compensation, excluding extra lump sum compensation or increases in the rate of pay. An employee's base pay can be expressed as a base hourly rate of pay or as an annual salary. Next Up. 
Midpoint, market ratio, mean, median, merit bonus-I don’t know what it is with “m” words in compensation, but there are a lot of them and it can get confusing. Let’s try to simplify things by breaking down the difference between two commonly confused words: mean and median. First, let’s talk about the mean. The mean is the same thing as the average. It is the result of dividing the sum of two or more values by the number of values. So (a+b+c)/3 = the mean or average.
Remuneration is the compensation that one receives in exchange for the work or services performed. Typically, this consists of monetary rewards, also referred to as wage or salary. A number of complementary benefits, however, are increasingly popular remuneration mechanisms. 
People generally think first about their annual wages or salary when asked about earnings. For example, if you earn $45,000 per year, that's what you'll think of as your annual wages or salary. However, your wages or salary doesn't encompass all of your compensation, especially if you work full time and for a large, established company. What you earn for working over the course of a year is made up of a variety of components. Your annual wages or pay -- what you bring home before taxes in your paycheck -- and what you earn in total annual compensation are two very different things, particularly if your company provides significant benefits.
Total Compensation (Salaries & Benefits). Total compensation is about more than salaries. Today it means health care benefits, retirement options, flexible schedules, paid time off, work environment and so much more. The state's total compensation plan emphasizes families and career employment, investing in the growth and retention of good employees. Our compensation package is a combination of salary, benefits, and other employee programs: Salary.
For a $50k job over 2,080 hours (you’re getting 2 weeks paid vacation included in your total compensation), the hourly rate is $24.04 per hour. For a job with no paid time off — meaning if you work 2,000 hours and don’t get the 80 hours free — the hourly rate jumps to $25 per hour. The biggest point that most people get caught up on is the salary. Salary, obviously, is very important. What you are paid by your employer impacts how much take home pay you have, what tax bracket you fall in, and what your standard of living can be without going into debt.
Total Compensation. Total compensation is everything the company provides an employee in exchange for working. It includes base salary, bonuses, benefits, perks and on-site amenities. Total compensation indicates that an employee is making two or three times his base salary. Base Salary. Base salary is what you see on your paycheck. It is the amount per hour or per year that you are paid for performing your job. Base salary does not include any bonuses, benefits or perks associated with the job.