First of all there can sometimes be some pain in the pelvis area, the lower back, or the abdomen. This pain tends to be very similar to the pain of a kidney stone—in fact it is often difficult to tell a phleboliths and a kidney stone apart with just an x-ray. Thrombosis is another symptom of phleboliths which can cause the blood to slow down. It is rare that you would notice this on your own though. Phleboliths can also cause a varicose condition in the veins in your pelvic area. You may also have some noticeable discomfort in your kidney or bladder area. 
OBJECTIVE: On radiographs of the abdomen and pelvis, phleboliths often have a characteristic radiolucent center that helps to distinguish them from ureteral stones. On unenhanced CT, the distinction between pelvic phleboliths and distal ureteral stones can be problematic. 
Phleboliths are masses, deposits or growths which develop in the wall of a vein and are composed of calcium or lime. They are common in the pelvic area and are stationary and harmless; however, they can indicate the presence of more dangerous conditions or diseases. Identification. The pelvic area is the section of the body located at the base of the spine and surrounded by the hips. This area includes the bladder, genitals, prostate and other organs of the lower abdomen. In X-ray imaging, phleboliths appear as rounded white or light-colored spots.
Phleboliths are a small, round calcification that is found inside a vein in the lower pelvis. Tsunami are most often caused by earthquakes that move the seafloor and generate a sudden up shift of a column of water. Other events can also cause them such as underwater la … ndslides or landslides on shore near a large body of water.
A. A phlebolith is a small local, usually rounded, calcification within a vein. These are very common in the veins of the lower part of the pelvis, and they are generally of no clinical importance. Phleboliths are masses, clots or growths that develop in the wall of a vein and are composed of calcium or lime. They are stationary and harmless but can indicate the presence of more dangerous conditions or diseases. Show more Information. If you select Keep me signed in on this computer, you can stay signed in to WebMD.com on this computer for up to 2 weeks or until you sign out. This means that a cookie will stay on your computer even when you exit or close your browser which may reduce your levels of privacy and security.
What are causes of phleboliths? The causes of phleboliths can be due to a variety of medical  conditions, such as varicose veins, liver problems, colorectal  hemangiomas, and stomach cancer. Tsunami are most often caused by earthquakes that move the seafloor and generate a sudden up shift of a column of water. Other events can also cause them such as underwater la … ndslides or landslides on shore near a large body of water.
What are causes of phleboliths? The causes of phleboliths can be due to a variety of medical  conditions, such as varicose veins, liver problems, colorectal  hemangiomas, and stomach cancer. Some other les … s serious causes are  an injury to a vein wall or a straining while making a bowel  movement. Phleboliths are calcified growths found in veins of the  body. They are commonly found in the pelvic region, but they can  also present in the kidneys or stomach.
Phleboliths are literally vein stones, and represent calcification within venous structures. They are particularly common in the pelvis where they may mimic ureteric calculi, and are also encountered frequently in venous malformations. There is an association with Maffucci syndrome. 
Symptoms. Most of the time you will not even know that you have phleboliths but there are times when symptoms manifest in some way, which can include: 1  Pain in the abdomen, lower back, or pelvis area and is similar to kidney stone pain. 2  Thrombosis, which can cause your blood to slow down
Some other les … s serious causes are  an injury to a vein wall or a straining while making a bowel  movement. Phleboliths are calcified growths found in veins of the  body. They are commonly found in the pelvic region, but they can  also present in the kidneys or stomach. 2 people found this useful. Tsunami are most often caused by earthquakes that move the seafloor and generate a sudden up shift of a column of water. Other events can also cause them such as underwater la … ndslides or landslides on shore near a large body of water.