The primary function of hemoglobin (Hb) is to transport oxygen. Since oxygen is not very soluble in water (the major constituent of blood), an oxygen transport protein must be used to allow oxygen to be 'soluble'. The iron is the site of oxygen binding; each iron can bind one O 2 molecule thus each hemoglobin molecule is capable of binding a total to four (4) O 2 molecules.
Unknown quotes | added by: Letting Go quotes Moving On quotes Stop Caring quotes Caring quotes. Letting go does not mean you stop caring. It means you stop trying to force others to. Unknown quotes | added by: Poems quotes Cute Love quotes Teen Love quotes Goodnight quotes I Love You quotes. He wants to say 'I love you' but keeps it at goodnight, cause love would mean some falling, and shes afraid of heights.
This means that there are approximately 150,500,000,000,000,000,000 hemoglobin molecules in 100 ml of whole blood. How many possible binding sites for oxygen are contained in 100 ml of blood? The iron is the site of oxygen binding; each iron can bind one O 2 molecule thus each hemoglobin molecule is capable of binding a total to four (4) O 2 molecules.
Share your Knowledge. Contribute translations, meaning, definition, synonym, sample usage and/or any information for terms, phrases and words that people are finding. Many visitors come here finding for translations for a certain phrases and terms but were unlucky. Maybe you have answer. Help translate the following. 1  kumahon in english. 2  ogaw in english. 3  ruchi in english. 4  suhing pulong sa lumulopyo in english. 5  nagalis in english. 6  tamosan in english. 7  katos in english. 8  pinagbawal in english. 9  nag duhiraw in english. 10  angaj
Hum Bug. a person that begs alot. They usually are cool so u let them in ur clique but u hate to be around them cuz they snakes they lie, sometimes are lame and they beg alot. Jessica is my best friend but she a hum bug. 1) Opportunity derived from circumstance or a random situation. 2) Derived fortune initiated with no conscience effort or conspiracy. 3) Small endeavor that yields significantly greater than expect benefits. ...Spent the last 6 months trying to hit a lick and finally came up on/from a humbug.
Hamburg is a transport hub and is an affluent city in Europe. It has become a media and industrial centre, with plants and facilities belonging to Airbus, Blohm + Voss and Aurubis. The name Hamburg comes from the first permanent building on the site, a castle which the Emperor Charlemagne ordered constructed in AD 808. It rose on rocky terrain in a marsh between the River Alster and the River Elbe as a defence against Slavic incursion, and acquired the name Hammaburg, burg meaning castle or fort.
Heart quotes Caring quotes Love quotes Poems quotes Poetry quotes Finding Love quotes. Somewhere in your heart try to find a place for me. Somewhere in your heart, I don't care where it might be. One little corner May not be mean so much to you but one little corner would be enough to see me through. Unknown quotes | added by: Poems quotes Cute Love quotes Teen Love quotes Goodnight quotes I Love You quotes. He wants to say 'I love you' but keeps it at goodnight, cause love would mean some falling, and shes afraid of heights.
For Tagalog to English:Click on the first letter of the Tagalog word to get its English translation:A B K D E G H I L M N O P R S T U W YFor English to Tagalog:Click on the first letter of the English word to get its Tagalog translation:A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z. 
Full Definition of HUMBUG. 1. a: something designed to deceive and mislead b: a willfully false, deceptive, or insincere person. 2. : an attitude or spirit of pretense and deception. 3. : nonsense, drivel. 4. British: a hard usually mint-flavored candy. — hum·bug·gery \-ˌbə-g(ə-)rē\ noun. 
The word Humbug has is a german word and a synonym for the word Unsinn which means Nonsense. It's a dialect thingie. 1) Opportunity derived from circumstance or a random situation. 2) Derived fortune initiated with no conscience effort or conspiracy. 3) Small endeavor that yields significantly greater than expect benefits. ...Spent the last 6 months trying to hit a lick and finally came up on/from a humbug.