Based on whether you decide to operate a multi-trucking company or a single owner one, you have to make an estimation of the initial investment that will be required. On an average, the start-up costs in opening a trucking business are between $10000 to $50000. Depending on how much you work, you can make profits of around $50000 and above annually. If you don't have the necessary finance, you should consider borrowing from banks and local financial institutions.
For many truck drivers now may be the prime opportunity to start a trucking company as an owner-operator. The demand for trucking is currently on the rise. In fact the US Department of Labor predicts that employment for truck drivers will increase 21% between 2010 and 2020.
Starting your own trucking company gives you more freedom and increased earning potential. Department of Labor statistics indicate that the average yearly salary of an employed trucker is just over $37,000.
Additional Assistance. While there are a number of companies that will help you start your trucking business and apply for grants, the Small Business Administration is an excellent -- and free -- resource. The SBA can help you write your business plan, locate funding and market your business (see Resource section).
Owning a trucking company could substantially increase your income; however, the cost of starting a trucking company can also be substantial. One option for start-up funding is to locate and apply for grants that may help you raise the necessary capital to start your company.
There is a lot to think about when starting your own trucking company. To help you understand all the requirements, get our “Start Your Own Trucking Company” white paper. The white paper includes information about FMCSA, licenses, registrations, taxes, business expenses and more.
How to Calculate Startup Costs for a Trucking Company. Trucking companies can hire independent owner-operators to avoid buying their own trucks. Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. Trucking companies handle ground-based logistics for shippers of a vast range of products -- anything from furniture to live poultry.