Overview. Bumps, itching, redness and other skin conditions are very common, and their cause may not be easily identifiable. Rashes can be caused by many things, including plants (poison ivy, for example), allergic reactions to a medication or a food, or an illness (measles or chickenpox, for example). Eczema and hives, both of which are related to allergies, are two of the most common skin rashes. Atopic dermatitis. Atopic dermatitis is the most common form of eczema, affecting between 10 and 20 percent of children and 1 to 3 percent of adults.
Medicated creams or ointments also can lessen symptoms. Skin rashes can occur from a variety of factors, including infections, heat, allergens, immune system disorders and medications. One of the most common skin disorders that causes a rash is atopic dermatitis (ay-TOP-ik dur-muh-TIE-tis), also known as eczema. 
Contact Dermatitis. Contact dermatitis is a type of allergic skin rash that is triggered by skin exposure to a substance that is capable of inducing a rash-like reaction. Some of these substances include hair dye, metals, cosmetics, dental materials and topical medication treatments. Shares & Saves. Save. The most common types of allergic skin rashes are caused by perfume, soap, detergent and cosmetics reactions, chemicals from latex, elastic or rubber products and chemicals and dyes that are present in clothing. Other People Are Reading
There are three common types of eczema: 1  Atopic dermatitis is chronic skin rash that affects children in families with a history of allergies. 2  The rash is usually dry and itchy; the skin becomes red, irritated, and scaly. 3  Scratching may lead to breaks in the skin, with resultant secondary infection and scarring. Different Types of Rashes. Rashes develop when the skin is irritated by allergic reactions to bacteria, viruses, foods, metals, and other factors. Read about different rashes to prevent and treat them.
1 Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 2  Infections that cause rashes may be fungal, bacterial, parasitic, or viral. 3  Over-the-counter products may be helpful treatments for many skin rashes. 4  Rashes lasting more than a few days that are unexplained should be evaluated by a doctor. Rash facts. 1  Rash is not a specific diagnosis. 2  Instead it means skin inflammation and discoloration that changes the way the skin looks. 3  Common rashes include eczema, poison ivy, hives, and heat rash. 4
Rashes Caused By Allergies. Hives. The most common allergic rash is hives, an extremely itchy rash that consists of raised large welts on the surface of the body, often circular with a pale center. Hives can result from an allergic reaction to medicines, foods, viral infections, or insect stings and bites. Different Types of Rashes. Rashes develop when the skin is irritated by allergic reactions to bacteria, viruses, foods, metals, and other factors. Read about different rashes to prevent and treat them.
A rash is a noticeable change in the texture or color of the skin. The skin may become itchy, bumpy, chapped, scaly, or otherwise irritated. Rashes are caused by a wide range of conditions, including allergies, medication, cosmetics, and various diseases. 1 eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 4  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 5  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp.
Other types of rashes include: 1  eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 4  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 1 eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 4  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 5  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp.