Watch. Most polymers, including poly(ethene) and poly(propene) are not biodegradable, so they may last for many years in rubbish dumps. However, it's possible to include substances such as cornstarch that cause the polymer to break down more quickly. 
Disposal. At the end of almost any product's useful life, it has to be disposed of in some way. How this is carried out can have a significant impact on the environment. A large proportion of electronic products end up in landfill, buried in underground rubbish dumps.
Definition of non-biodegradable adjective from the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary. a substance or chemical that is non-biodegradable cannot be changed to a harmless natural state by the action of bacteria, and may therefore damage the environment opposite biodegradable See related entries: Waste and pollution. We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more.
Answer by Mebgan. Confidence votes 10. BIODEGRADABLE: The waste that breaks down easily by the action of some micro-organism (i.e. bacteria) and also can break down in a non-poisonous form. Biodegradable waste will eventually break down and become part of the earth and soil, like food scraps and paper. Biodegradable substances are those substances which decomposes by the action of micro-organisms. e.g.:- vegetable peel,tea leaves,etc. Non biodegradable substances are those … substances which do not decomposes by the action of micro-organisms. e.g.:- plastic bottle,plastic bags etc
Capable of being broken down (decomposed) rapidly by the action of microorganisms. Biodegradable substances include food scraps, cotton, wool, wood, human and animal waste, manufactured products based on natural materials (such as paper, and vegetable-oil based soaps). See also degradable and photodegradable. 
Biodegradable plastics are plastics that decompose by the action of living organisms, usually bacteria. Under proper conditions, some biodegradable plastics can degrade to the point where microorganisms can completely metabolise them to carbon dioxide (and water). For example, starch-based bioplastics produced from sustainable farming methods could be almost carbon neutral.
Recycling. Recycling means reprocessing a material so that it can be used again. This helps to minimise damage to the environment by reducing the need for new materials. For example, melting plastic parts so that they can be shaped into new products. At the end of almost any product's useful life, it has to be disposed of in some way. How this is carried out can have a significant impact on the environment. A large proportion of electronic products end up in landfill, buried in underground rubbish dumps.
Biodegradability. If it is essential to dispose of a product in landfill, ideally the material should be biodegradable (it will decompose relatively quickly), as opposed to non-biodegradable materials that take many years to break down. At the end of almost any product's useful life, it has to be disposed of in some way. How this is carried out can have a significant impact on the environment. A large proportion of electronic products end up in landfill, buried in underground rubbish dumps.
Biodegradable Plastics. Biodegradable plastic is plastic that decomposes naturally in the environment. This is achieved when microorganisms in the environment metabolize and break down the structure of biodegradable plastic. The end result is one which is less harmful to the environment than traditional plastics. With biodegradable plastic, you get a substance made from natural sources that does not contain these chemical fillers, and does not pose the same risk to the environment. The process of making biodegradable plastics begins with the melting down of all the materials.