Sub-Categories. To choose the proper California catalytic converter or oxygen sensor on this site for any vehicle, you must know basic information about your vehicle and engine. You need to know the make (e.g. Honda), the model (e.g. Civic), the year (e.g. 2000), and the engine displacement (e.g. 1.6L). In addition, you may need to know other basic questions, when asked. These could be the type of transmission (e.g. automatic or standard), the sub-model (e.g. DX or CX), or the door arrangement (e.g. Sedan or Coupe).
1 Engine Family Names One of the pieces of information fleets are required to report to the Air Resources Board (ARB), as part of initial reporting under the off-road diesel vehicle regulation, is the engine family name. The engine family name does not refer to the engine Tier, or the manufacturer’s production ‘family’ of engines, such as the 650 series engines, etc.
Welcome to the Ford Fleet Emissions Guide. This page is designed to help verify emissions standards and certification (i.e.; CFFP, EPAct. LEV, ULEV) on all fuel types offered by Ford Motor Company throughout the United States. Any questions you have may be directed to 1-800-34-FLEET, pick #2. 
P age 2 | 20 Non-Road Diesel Engines in Canada 2 Engine Certification Organization www.enginecert.com  Engines covered by a valid EPA certificate and sold concurrently Concurrent EPA certified engines are subject to declaration. Canada transition engine annual reporting applies only to the portion of these engines imported to Canada.  Type 3 Canada-unique Engines These engines are not listed on a valid EPA certificate and/or not concurrently sold in the USA (excluding Canada TPEM engines).
What is the engine family name? The engine family name is an identifier assigned by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to every engine verified to Tier 1 emission standards or higher. Engine standards were implemented in the mid-1990s. Engines without a standard are considered Tier 0 engines, and will not have an engine family name. The engine family name does not refer to the engine Tier, or the manufacturer’s production ‘family’ of engines, such as the 650 series engines, etc.
INCORRECT If the engine label does not list the EPA-issued engine family name, the manufacturer of your engine may be able to assist you in determining the engine family name if you are able to supply information on the model year and make of the engine, or the engine serial number. The engine family name does not refer to the engine Tier, or the manufacturer’s production ‘family’ of engines, such as the 650 series engines, etc.
Yanmar Diesel Engine Co. Notes: USEPA, Certification Guida= nce for Heavy Duty On-Highway and Nonroad CI Engines, 40 CFR Part 86 and Part= 89, Appendix D-EPA Standard Engine and Evaporative F= amily Names, 1999. 
V1.0 02/08/2010 Page 3 of 8 Locating the EPA Engine Family Name and Engine Specifications The EPA engine family name is a 12 character number/letter designation included on the engine nameplate for all heavy duty truck engines sold in the United States. In general, the nameplate is permanently affixed to the engine. The exact location and appearance of the nameplate varies by engine manufacturer. Examples of nameplates from three major engine manufacturers are included below:Caterpillar Engine Example: Caterpillar Nameplate (2 labels): EPA Family Name – 5CPXH0928EBKEngine Model Year - 2005Engine Horsepower – 475 HP.