Instructions. Clarify your vision for the park. Before you tally the start up costs for a water park, be sure you're clear on the key elements of the park, such as whether it will be indoors or outdoors, an independent park or a franchised park and whether it will be seasonal or open year-round. Figure out which financing options are available to you. How to Calculate Start up Costs for a Water Park; Sport Tourism Marketing; Comments You May Also Like.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The cost of building a water park would be driven by the following factors. Size of Park Location and Access Land costs and Infrastructure Availability Equipment and Theme. Current estimates run at $350 per square foot. So a 3 acre water park can cost around 45 million. This should include the lodging, support services and equipment. These are rough numbers and can vary depending on varies factors.
Final cost on lockers is only $3.00 per day. Lockers are $8.00 a day (including a $5.00 deposit). When you return your key to the ticket office your $5.00 deposit will be refunded back to you. Return your key at the end of the day so that you have unlimited access to your belongings. 
How to Calculate Start up Costs for a Water Park. If your dream is to open a water park, one of the first things you'll need to do is determine the startup costs, whether you're independently wealthy or dependent upon investors. How to Calculate Start up Costs for a Water Park; Sport Tourism Marketing; Comments You May Also Like.
A large indoor institutional pool complex needs 6 to 10 (or more) acres. A Family Aquatic Center can be on as little as 2 to 3 acres plus parking but usually works more easily on 4 to 6 acres plus parking. It is a design bias of our team to incorporate park-like landscapes within the pool site, so space helps. Q: How much does it cost to build? A: Obviously that is a large question. A: For basic services (covering all phases in accordance with one of the standard contract forms) the fee for design services will generally fall in the range of 6% to 8% of construction cost, less on larger projects.
$59.99+tax at the gate every Saturday, $44.99+tax at the gate Sunday-Friday. Once purchased, you can upgrade to a Season Pass for an additional charge before leaving the park on the day your ticket is scanned. Save $5 and time from ticket window lines when you buy your general admission ticket online. 
we want to build a water park and we have access to funds but we need to know approximatley how much it would cost to build an indoor one. this isnt stupid its for school. i promise. Well I could personally advise you if you wish. A water park can be built for as little as 2-4 million. You can build a decent one for 12 million. Send me a message at zuesefl {at} yahoo.com if you are serious. Source(s): I work in the theme park industry, know a few owners of water parks, theme parks, ride makers. Also used to work for Disney and Universal