After neurotransmitters are released from the cell, they bind to receptors on the next cell. In this video, Leslie explains how the two different types of receptors – the ionotropic and metabotropic receptors – work to bring about various responses in the cell.
Binding of acetylcholine to a muscarinic AChR causes a conformational change in the receptor that is responsible for its association with and activation of an intracellular G protein, the latter converting GTP to GDP in order to become activated and dissociate from the receptor.
Two Types of Receptors. There are two types of acetylcholine receptors (AChR) that bind acetylcholine and transmit its signal: muscarinic AChRs and nicotinic AChRs, which are named after the agonists muscarine and nicotine, respectively.
The neurotransmitter acetylcholine is released from the terminals of. in. the sympathetic (orange) and the parasympathetic (blue) divisions of the ANS. There are two categories of cholinergic receptors -- nicotinic and muscarinic.
A number of drugs target acetylcholine receptors, blockade of these receptors is associated with anticholinergic (parasympatholytic) effect, while stimulation causes activation of cholinergic (parasympathomimetic) effects.
These receptors are functionally different, the muscarinic type being G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) that mediate a slow metabolic response via second messenger cascades, while the nicotinic type are ligand-gated ion channels that mediate a fast synaptic transmission of the neurotransmitter.
1 Nicotinic receptors are. 2  found at the neuromuscular junction of skeletal (only) muscles, 3  on the post-ganglionic neurons of the parasympathetic nervous system, and. 4  on many neurons in the brain (e.g. neurons in the hypothalamus whose activation by nicotine suppresses appetite). 5  Nicotine is an agonist (hence the name).
The nicotinic effects of acetylcholine resemble those of nicotine and result from activation of acetylcholine nicotinic receptors, receptor-channels, which, in an activated state, let sodium and calcium enter into cells, thus creating a depolarization.
With the muscarinic receptor, acetylcholine is still the neurotransmitter, so ACh, and that binds to the receptor that activates a G protein. When it activates a G protein, a number of processes happen that cause multiple responses, depending on the type of muscarinic receptor we’re dealing with.
Acetylcholine is released from a presynaptic neuron into the synaptic cleft. Once in the synaptic gap, acetylcholine can: - Bind to presynaptic receptors: presynaptic activation or inhibition leads to automodulation of the presynaptic cholinergic neuron.