November 4, 2011 Grout Cleaning Basics, How to Grout. It is important to know the difference between sanded versus unsanded grout. Both of these types of grout joint compounds come from Portland cement. One type is called sanded or “rough” grout, and the next type is unsanded or “smooth” grout. Now the type of grout you should use does not depend on how you want the tiles to look, and it does not even depend on the type of stone or tile you are installing. It only depends on the width of the grout lines. 
Sanded grout is a dry, Portland cement based grout with silica sand, inorganic aggregates, and chemical. Produces hard, dense joints that resist shrinking, cracking, and wear. Formulated for durability, color consistency, and quick curing. Can be used in joints ranging from 1/8 to 1/2. Sanded grout is a dry, Portland cement based grout with silica sand, inorganic aggregates, and chemical. Produces hard, dense joints that resist ... View Full Description.
The main difference between unsanded and sanded grout is the presence or absence of sand. Unsanded cement-based grout is a smooth mixture of Portland cement, powdered pigments and water. Epoxy grouts are made of resin and hardener. Tile Type. The size of the tile joint usually dictates which type of grout to use, but sometimes the type of tile is the deciding factor. For example, unsanded grout is recommended for highly polished, easily scratched tiles such as marble because the aggregate in sanded grouts may damage these types of tiles.
1 Sanded grout will not properly compact into thinner grout lines. 2  Non-sanded grout used in lines 1/8 or more will slump, crack, and otherwise not provide proper fill. 3  For tile that is easily scratched, such as glass and certain porcelains and ceramics. 4  The sand content in sanded tile grout may damage these surfaces. 1 Non-sanded grout used in lines 1/8 or more will slump, crack, and otherwise not provide proper fill. 2  For tile that is easily scratched, such as glass and certain porcelains and ceramics. 3  The sand content in sanded tile grout may damage these surfaces.
For cementitious grout, joints smaller than 1/8 generally should only be grouted with unsanded grout, and joints of 1/8 and larger should only be grouted with sanded grout. Joints larger that 3/8 usually need a more heavily sanded grout to accommodate the large joint. Generally, sanded and unsanded grout should never be mixed and absolutely never with marble or any other surface that can be scratched by the sand in grout (note: marble is a cut product, manufactured to extremely tight tolerances and usually designed to be installed with 1/16 spacing).
Store SO SKU # 1000114764. Polyblend Sanded Grout is a polymer-modified, cement based grout that produces hard, dense joints that resist shrinking, cracking and wear. Formulated for durability, Polyblend Sanded Grout accommodates 1/8 in. ­ 1/2 in. (3 mm ­ 13 mm) joints for interior or exterior installations. 
1 For grout lines 1/8 or less. 2  Sanded grout will not properly compact into thinner grout lines. 3  Non-sanded grout used in lines 1/8 or more will slump, crack, and otherwise not provide proper fill. 4  For tile that is easily scratched, such as glass and certain porcelains and ceramics. 1 Non-sanded grout used in lines 1/8 or more will slump, crack, and otherwise not provide proper fill. 2  For tile that is easily scratched, such as glass and certain porcelains and ceramics. 3  The sand content in sanded tile grout may damage these surfaces.
The difference between sanded and unsanded grout is that sanded grout has sand in it while unsanded grout does not have sand in it. Sand in the grout reinforces the grout to make it much stronger and less likely to crack. Sanded grout is best used for wider grout joints over 1/8th inch wide while un-sanded grout is best for more narrow grout lines less than 1/8 inch wide. When using sanded grout on these types of tile installations the sand in the grout can actually scratch the surface of the tiles while grouting the tiles. This is particularly evident on some of the softer stones such as marble, limestone and travertine.
With smaller grout joints the sanded grout will not fit into the narrow grout lines. Most standard ceramic shower tile installations with 4 inch or 6 inch tiles will have narrow grout lines requiring unsanded grout. With the narrow grout lines there is not much chance of the grout cracking when using un-sanded grout. When using sanded grout on these types of tile installations the sand in the grout can actually scratch the surface of the tiles while grouting the tiles. This is particularly evident on some of the softer stones such as marble, limestone and travertine.