Stargate Sg-1 was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. A total of 214 episodes of the TV series Stargate: SG-1 were filmed. It's debut started on July 27, 1997 with the pilot episode 'Children of the Gods' and ended on March … 13, 2007 with the episode 'Unending'. 2 people found this useful. Ananda Muhammad.
Stargate: Continuum is the second Stargate film to be released on DVD following the end of Stargate SG-1. 1 All characters who have ever been main characters on Stargate SG-1 appear in this film except for Jonas Quinn. 2  This marks the final appearances of Christopher Judge (Teal'c), Ben Browder (Cameron Mitchell), Claudia Black (Vala Mal Doran) and Beau Bridges (Henry Landry) in the Stargate franchise.
Stargate SG-1 (often abbreviated as SG-1) is an adventure and military science fiction television series and part of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 's Stargate franchise. The show, created by Brad Wright and Jonathan Glassner, is based on the 1994 science fiction film Stargate by Dean Devlin and Roland Emmerich. The first film, Stargate: The Ark of Truth, was released in March 2008 and wraps up the Ori storyline. The second film, Stargate: Continuum, is an alternate time-line time travel story and was released in July 2008.
MGM will run the production side of things, while Warner Bros. Pictures will oversee worldwide distribution. The original Stargate film, starring Kurt Russell and James Spader, set opening box-office records and grossed almost $200 million worldwide. It also spawned many successful TV series spinoffs. Stargate SG-1 debuted in 1997, starring Richard Dean Anderson and Amanda Tapping. 
The plot centers on the premise of a  Stargate , an ancient ring-shaped device that creates a wormhole enabling travel to a similar device elsewhere in the universe. The film's central plot explores the theory of extraterrestrial beings having an influence upon human civilization. The film had a mixed initial critical reception, earning both praise and criticism for its atmosphere, story, characters, and graphic content. Nevertheless, Stargate became a commercial success worldwide. Devlin and Emmerich gave the rights to the franchise to MGM when they were working on their 1996 film Independence Day, and MGM retains the domestic television rights
This article is about the film. For other uses, see Stargate (disambiguation). The whole premise of the Stargate franchise began with the feature film Stargate, released theatrically on October 28, 1994 by MGM. It was directed by Roland Emmerich, written by Emmerich and Dean Devlin and starred Kurt Russell, James Spader and Jaye Davidson. 1 Stargate has the distinction of being the first film to have an official website. 2  In the Stargate movie, the base where the Stargate was located was Creek Mountain, Colorado. 3  It is possible they are one and the same place but the name changed between the movie and SG-1.
Created by Dean Devlin and Roland Emmerich, the film is the first release in the Stargate franchise. Directed by Roland Emmerich, the film stars Kurt Russell, James Spader, Jaye Davidson, Alexis Cruz, Mili Avital, and Viveca Lindfors. The film had a mixed initial critical reception, earning both praise and criticism for its atmosphere, story, characters, and graphic content. Nevertheless, Stargate became a commercial success worldwide. Devlin and Emmerich gave the rights to the franchise to MGM when they were working on their 1996 film Independence Day, and MGM retains the domestic television right
Stargate (French: Stargate, la porte des etoiles) étoiles is a 1994-French american adventure science fiction film released Through-Metro-Goldwyn (MAYER) mgm And Carolco. pictures The film had a mixed initial critical reception, earning both praise and criticism for its atmosphere, story, characters, and graphic content. Nevertheless, Stargate became a commercial success worldwide. Devlin and Emmerich gave the rights to the franchise to MGM when they were working on their 1996 film Independence Day, and MGM retains the domestic television rights.
Template:Infobox Film The whole premise of the Stargate franchise began with the feature film Stargate, released theatrically in 1994 by MGM. It was directed by Roland Emmerich, written by Emmerich and Dean Devlin and starred Kurt Russell, James Spader and Jaye Davidson. 