NEW VIPER2 DIRECT TO GARMENT PRINTER. The all new Viper2 DTG Printer is a revolution in the direct-to-garment printer industry. Making the best use of the newest in print technology with smaller droplet sizes, more precise placement and ever clearer images printing onto light and dark t-shirts. New Features List:
- Easy, easy, no cost set up. A DTG printer doesn't use screens, but prints directly onto the t-shirt(s). - Simple file storag e. Screen printers usually have a store room full of customer screens-you will be able to store all of yours on your computer. - Print 1, print 50. The all new Viper2 DTG Printer is a revolution in the direct-to-garment printer industry. Making the best use of the newest in print technology with smaller droplet sizes, more precise placement and ever clearer images printing onto light and dark t-shirts. New Features List:
Direct-to-Garment (DTG) printing can be incredibly rewarding, and offers many advantages over traditional screen printing. Whether you are a new startup company or an established print shop looking to augment your production capabilities, DTG is definitely worth a second look. 5. DTG printing is not intended to be used on all garment types; in fact, the inks tend to work best when applied to 100% cotton, so it is best to avoid 50/50 blends and other non-cotton fabrics as much as possible.
Whether you are a growing Direct to Garment printer business, already at high-production level, or a screen printer looking towards hybrid apparel decoration, let our extensive print portfolio and full array of services partner with you on your digital print journey. 
Prints from a DTG printer have a softer feel than screen printed prints or transfer prints (although a heavy pretreatment or heavy white ink layer can make the ink feel more noticeable). On light garments where no white ink is used, you may not be able to feel the ink at all. Summit XT DTG Direct to Garment Printers apply special inks directly to the garment. The inks are then permanently bonded to the garment using a heat press. DTG prints have a softer feel than transfers and tend to be more durable. Laser Transfer Printers print your designs to special transfer paper.
Direct to garment printing, also known as DTG printing, digital direct to garment printing, digital apparel printing, and inkjet to garment printing, is a process of printing on textiles and garments using specialized or modified inkjet technology. 
The DTG Brand of Direct to Garment Printers are always at the vanguard of printing technology and has a history of producing reliable, high quality equipment that is designed to help launch your custom T-shirt business and keep it printing successfully over time. 
Also referred to as DTG and inkjet-to-garment printing, direct to garment printing is the printing of digital images from a computer onto a shirt or other garment through the use of an inkjet printer. And while the name may seem vague, the advantages, disadvantages and ideal uses for DTG are quite specific. 
As you can see in the video above, the DTG M2 Direct to Garment Printer will produce 2 dark shirts with large designs on them in approximately 2 1/2 minutes. That is just 1 minute and 15 seconds per shirt! Each shirt needs to be cured under the heat press for 3 minutes and 20 seconds. On the other hand, if you get a large job for a company that just wants a logo on the chest of their company shirts, your t shirt printing machine will output shirts faster than you can take them off the DTG printer! We will use a center chest design that is about 8 high and 10 wide for our ROI calculations.