There are only a couple of problems. Hormone levels measured in saliva are almost never legitimate. There is no physiologic reason to measure most salivary hormone levels and no generally published ranges of normal levels of hormones measured in saliva. The psychiatrist had recommended testing samples of saliva and urine for hormone and neurotransmitter levels, the results of which would likely indicate a need for supplements to correct deficiencies or imbalances.
Menopause™. Menopause™ is a noninvasive salivary hormone test that examines three specimens for levels of β-estradiol, estrone, estriol, progesterone, and testosterone. Results can be used to identify hormone imbalances contributing to menopausal symptoms as well as various systemic disorders. 
Saliva testing is an easy and noninvasive way of assessing your patients hormone balancing needs, and is proving to be the most reliable medium for measuring hormone levels. Unlike serum tests, saliva testing represents only hormones actively delivered to receptors in the body. Only the unbound hormones pass through and into the saliva. What is measured in the saliva is considered the free, or bioavailable hormone, that which will be delivered to the receptors in the tissues of the body. In order for steroid hormones to be detected in serum, they must be bound to circulating proteins.
Appreciating the reliability of saliva testing is based on understanding the difference between steroid hormones in saliva and in serum. This difference is based on whether or not the hormones are bound to proteins in the medium used for testing. Only the unbound hormones pass through and into the saliva. What is measured in the saliva is considered the free, or bioavailable hormone, that which will be delivered to the receptors in the tissues of the body. In order for steroid hormones to be detected in serum, they must be bound to circulating proteins.
Saliva testing is a diagnostic technique that involves laboratory analysis of saliva to identify markers of endocrine, immunologic, inflammatory, infectious, and other types of conditions. 
Saliva testing is much more specific and correctly identifies the level of hormones at the cellular level, in contrast to a serum (blood) test, which measures the level of hormones circulating in the bloodstream. Saliva testing is not helpful, however, to monitor women who are taking hormones in a sublingual (drops or spray) or tansmucosal (lozenge or troche) format. These forms of hormone delivery concentrate the hormones in the salivary glands and the resulting saliva levels are too high to be useful