You can keep them in the refrigerator and add more cooked beets to the liquid when they start to get low. We also add shelled, hard boiled eggs to the juice, and after 2 to 3 days, they are a beautiful purple all the way down to the yolk (and taste divine!).
Boil the beets until they are tender if you are storing them cooked. Peel the beets and remove any remaining stems after cooking. Keep cooked beets in the refrigerator in a sealed container or sealed plastic bag for up to one week. You can also freeze cooked beets in a freezer-safe bag or container.
1 Store in plastic bag in the refrigerator; do not wash before refrigerating. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags.
1 To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags.
Step 4. Boil the beets until they are tender if you are storing them cooked. Peel the beets and remove any remaining stems after cooking. Keep cooked beets in the refrigerator in a sealed container or sealed plastic bag for up to one week. You can also freeze cooked beets in a freezer-safe bag or container.
How to store: Before refrigerating, separate the beets from the leaves. To keep the beets dry, store them and the leaves, unwashed, in separate plastic bags in the vegetable drawer. Shelf life: The leaves will last for only two to three days, but the beets can stay fresh for two to three weeks.
These beets will last a long time in the refrigerator, probably 2 to 3 months. Contact Linda Stradley-By Google. What's Cooking America copyright 2004-2014 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved.
Tips. 1  Store in plastic bag in the refrigerator; do not wash before refrigerating. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags.
Place beets in large heavy pan and cover with water over medium-high heat. Bring just to a boil; reduce heat to medium, cover and cook until fork tender, approximately 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from heat and drain. Let beets cool until you can safely handle them.