Magnesium is the twelfth element of the periodic table. These magnesium facts contain chemical and physical data along with general information and history. Magnesium periodic table tile. Basic Magnesium Facts. Name: Magnesium. Atomic Number: 12. Element Symbol: Mg. Group: 2. Period: 3. Fun Magnesium Facts. 1  Magnesium is a silvery-white alkaline solid at room temperature. 2  Magnesium has a sour taste. 3  Small amounts of magnesium in mineral water gives it that slightly sour flavor. 4  An early name for magnesium was “magnium”. 5  The metallic form of manganese was already known as magnesium.
Joseph Black recognized magnesium as an element in 1755. It was isolated by Sir Humphry Davy (1778-1829) in 1808 almost 200 years after its discovery. He electrolysised mixture of magnesia (magnesium oxide, MgO) and mercuric oxide (HgO). Davy's first suggestion for a name was magnium but the name magnesium is now used. History. In 1618 a farmer by the name of Henry Wicker at Epsom in England attempted to give his cows water from a well. They refused to drink because bitter taste of the water. However the farmer noticed that the water seemed to heal scratches and rashes. The fame of Epsom salts sprea
Magnesium is the eighth-most-abundant element in the Earth's crust by mass and tied in seventh place with iron in terms of molarity. It is found in large deposits of magnesite, dolomite, and other minerals, and in mineral waters, where magnesium ion is soluble. Magnesium ions are sour to the taste, and in low concentrations they help impart a natural tartness to fresh mineral waters. Magnesium is the metallic ion at the center of chlorophyll, and is a common additive to fertilizers.
In 1618 a farmer at Epsom in England attempted to give his cows water from a well. This they refused to drink because of the water's bitter taste. However the farmer noticed that the water seemed to heal scratches and rashes. The fame of Epsom salts spread. Eventually they were recognised to be magnesium sulphate, MgSO 4. Black recognized magnesium as an element in 1755. It was isolated by Davy in 1808 who electrolysed a mixture of magnesia (magnesium oxide, MgO) and mercuric oxide (HgO). Davy's first suggestion for a name was magnium but the name magnesium is now used
The name of the element magnesium was derived from Magnesia which  is a Greek district in Thessaly. This metallic element is one of  the most abundant elements on Earth and … makes up a huge portion of  its mantle. Magnesium is element number 12 on the periodic table. It is an alkaline earth metal. It is interesting, because it is the first metal on the periodic table that you can safely make things out of. Lithium reacts with water, beryllium is extremely toxic, and sodium also reacts with water, the next metal is magnesium.
The name of the element magnesium was derived from Magnesia which  is a Greek district in Thessaly. This metallic element is one of  the most abundant elements on Earth and … makes up a huge portion of  its mantle. Answered. In Elements and Compounds. 
Magnesium is the eighth most abundant element in the Earth’s crust, but does not occur uncombined in nature. It is found in large deposits in minerals such as magnesite and dolomite. The sea contains trillions of tonnes of magnesium, and this is the source of much of the 850,000 tonnes now produced each year. Magnesium is the seventh most abundant element in the Earth's crust, and third most abundant if the Earth's mantle is also taken into consideration because this consists largely of olivine and pyroxene, which are magnesium silicates.
what is the origin of magnesium and the name of the person who discovered it. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service. 