You can add the iTunes credit on the iTunes Gift Card to your remaining iTunes Store account Balance by following the following redeem instructions. You can redeem an iTunes Card via iPhone, iPad or iPod touch in the following way. Open the iTunes Store, Apple Store or iBooks Store on your device.
Then, select the “You can also enter your code manually” option. Then, enter the iTunes Code(s) and select redeem. You can redeem via Mac or PC by opening iTunes and selecting the iTunes Store. Then, click Redeem in the Quick Links section. Then, enter your iTunes Gift Card code and click redeem. Then, your iTunes Store Account Balance is updated and you are able to buy apps, movies, books, music and more.
iTunes Gift Cards. All cards work on the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store, and Mac App Store and for Apple Music memberships. Select a gift card that’s perfect for your recipient. You can include a personal message, and you always get free shipping. Please select a card design.
1 When you redeem an iTunes Store Gift Card, the amount of credit on the card is added to your iTunes Store account. 2  You can use it at any time to buy items in the iTunes Store, App Store, or iBooks Store, pay for in-app subscriptions, or make in-app purchases.
Give the gift of iTunes. When you give iTunes Gift Cards and iTunes Gifts to friends and family, they can choose whatever they want on the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store, and Mac App Store, or even use it toward an Apple Music membership.
iTunes Store Gift Cards: 1  When you redeem an iTunes Store Gift Card, the amount of credit on the card is added to your iTunes Store account. 2  You can use it at any time to buy items in the iTunes Store, App Store, or iBooks Store, pay for in-app subscriptions, or make in-app purchases.
Now you can add money directly to your iTunes or App Store account with iTunes Pass. To get iTunes Pass, go to the iTunes Store on your iOS device, scroll down, and tap the Redeem button. Then go in to any Apple Retail Store 3 and let a Specialist know you want to add money to your account.