NMLS will annually charge a processing fee of $100 per company license, $20 per branch location renewed through the system. Total fees will be $400 per license and $50 per branch location. You will submit a filing (transition) request for your company license and each branch location and pay all associated fees through NMLS. No paper applications or checks for renewal or branch locations will be accepted by the Department.
NMLS Processing Fees for State Licensure. 1  Initial Setup Fee-This fee is incurred each time a company (Form MU1), branch (Form MU3), or mortgage loan originator (Form MU4) uses the NMLS to apply for a new license in a participating state. Merger and Acquisition Fees for Registration. There are two fees for processing mergers and acquisitions in NMLS: 1  M&A Batch Upload base processing fee: $750 Standard fee paid by acquiring institution (MU1R) at initiation of MLO transfer.
 Annual renewal of federal registration: An NMLS processing fee of $30 will be assessed on an annual basis in accordance with federal requirements that mortgage loan originators renew their registrations once a year. 
NMLS is now receiving new application and transition filings for new industry license types for Utah-DFI and Wisconsin. Licensees and new applicants are now able to submit these records through NMLS for the licenses listed below. NMLS is now receiving new application and transition filings for the Arkansas Securities Department Money Transmitter License. Licensees and new applicants are now able to submit these records through NMLS. Click here to review the Money Transmitter License Checklists.
All transition requests should be made between September 2 nd and December 1 st through NMLS to avoid a late fee. Transition requests made between December 2 and December 31st will be assessed a $300 late fee in addition to the $300 annual license fee. You will submit a filing (transition) request for your company license and each branch location and pay all associated fees through NMLS. No paper applications or checks for renewal or branch locations will be accepted by the Department.
NMLS requires a $30 processing fee for each MLO seeking to renew or reactivate a registration. MLOs who are submitted for renewal but did not complete renewal attestation prior to December 31 need to be reactivated, incurring an additional $30 processing fee at the time of reactivation. 
The NMLS processing fees for state licensing and federal registration are listed below. Payment of the fees listed below may be made by credit card or by ACH payment from a bank account (pre-authorizing ACH payment to NMLS is recommended). NMLS does not charge a processing fee for ACH payment. Merger and Acquisition Fees for Registration. There are two fees for processing mergers and acquisitions in NMLS: 1  M&A Batch Upload base processing fee: $750 Standard fee paid by acquiring institution (MU1R) at initiation of MLO transfer.
A licensed company MLO that fails to submit required 2012 mortgage call reports to NMLS will result in the denial of the renewal of that company's MLO license endorsement for 2013. Renewal fees will not be refunded if a MLO renewal filing is denied for failure to submit one or more mortgage call reports. Penalty fees can apply for failure to submit this required notification. Penalties are fifty dollars ($50) per day for the first 30 days the report is not filed and one hundred dollars ($100) per day for every day thereafter not to exceed a maximum of $10,000.
1 Initial Setup Fee-This fee is incurred each time a company (Form MU1), branch (Form MU3), or mortgage loan originator (Form MU4) uses the NMLS to apply for a new license in a participating state. 2  The Initial Set-up Fee is a “per agency/per license.” fee. Merger and Acquisition Fees for Registration. There are two fees for processing mergers and acquisitions in NMLS: 1  M&A Batch Upload base processing fee: $750 Standard fee paid by acquiring institution (MU1R) at initiation of MLO transfer.
• Real Estate Salesperson and Broker license endorsement (MU4) – $300 Cal BRE MLO. license endorsement renewal fee plus $30 NMLS processing fee. • Real Estate Broker Sole-Proprietor Company (MU1) – No CalBRE newal feere, however, there is a $100 NMLS processing fee. • Real Estate Broker Sole-Proprietor Individual (MU4) - $300 CalBRE MLO license endorsement renewal fee plus $30 NMLS processing fee. • Real Estate Corporation Company (MU1) – $300 CalBRE MLO license endorsement renewal fee plus $100 NMLS processing fee. All individual MLO license endorsements expire on December 31 st of each year and must be renewed annually by submitting an individual renewal request/attestation electronically through NMLS along with the appropriate fees, and evidence of completion of 8 hours of NMLS approved. .