Taraxacum /təˈraeksəkʉm/ təˈræksəkʉm is a large genus of flowering plants in the Family asteraceae and consists of species commonly known as. Dandelion they are native To eurasia And North, america and two, Species. t officinale And. t, erythrospermum are found as commonplace wild flowers. worldwide Taraxacum seeds are an important food source for certain birds. Dandelions are also important plants for Northern Hemisphere bees, providing an important source of nectar and pollen early in the season. Dandelions are used as food plants by the larvae of some species of Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths).
This is a new hive in the apiary named after the Dandelion flower and it’s importance as a spring food source for bees. Dandelion pollen is very nutritious for bees and one of the most important for brood rearing. It’s a yellow orange color and is available for the bees to forage in April and May. A bee covered in Dandelion Pollen. Dandelion Hive started from a package, originating in Georgia, on April 14, 2012 and was put into a 10 frame Langstroth hive using deep supers, wooden frames and plastic pierco foundation. This is an outyard hive in a suburban backyard. 
The real boon for bees is the ample supply of pollen. Dandelions produce truckloads of the stuff, and because the flowers close up at night and during bad weather, the pollen is not washed away by dew or rain. The grains are sticky and large, which allows honey bees to pack hunking pellets of it back to their hive. But once I got into bugs, dandelions became a life force. They bloom in the spring, they bloom in the fall, they grow everywhere, and they are loaded with sweet nectar and Day-Glo pollen. If you want to see honey bees, look for a dandelion.
Bee on plum tree with pollen. The term pollen source is often used in the context of beekeeping and refers to flowering plants as a source of pollen for bees or other insects. Bees collect pollen as a protein source to raise their brood. The color of pollen below indicates the color as it appears when the pollen arrives at the beehive. Bees mix dry pollen with nectar and/or honey to compact the pollen in the pollen basket. Dry pollen, is a food source for bees, which contains 16 - 30% protein, 1 - 10% fat, 1 - 7% starch, many vitamins, but little sugar
Symptoms. Hay fever is a collection of allergic symptoms that you experience if you are sensitive to dandelion pollen. You might experience a runny and stuffy nose, sneezing, eye irritation and sore throat. As with other types of allergies, dandelion allergy can range in severity. Pollen is a common allergy trigger, but people are more prone to the pollen produced by ragweed plants, including dandelion. According to the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, 75 percent of Americans’ pollen allergies are triggered by ragweed plants.
Dandelion Allergy Info. Although not airborne for long, the dandelion pollen is abundant close to the ground, where the low-growing plant sheds it. Because dandelion shares the aster family with ragweed, it is likely a cause of allergy when sensitive individuals are very close to the pollen source. Dandelion Genus Details. The dandelion is known for its yellow flower that is actually made up of many small individual flowers. The stem is slender and hollow, with the plant being 1-4 inches tall. The plants are considered invasive weeds by many people but they are also an excellent source of potassium, calcium and vitamin A
You probably know dandelions by their bright yellow flowers. When the flowers mature into puffballs, you can blow off the seeds to make a wish. Dandelion flowers are mainly pollinated by insects. Some of the pollen is also spread by wind.