The Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments in the Algarve, Portugal is one of the leading and award-winning luxury family Resorts in Europe. The Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments are located in the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Resort. For those guests at the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments who are looking for total privacy without missing the perfect service of a five star hotel, we offer Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments of various styles and sizes:
The second phase of the renovation process is scheduled to commence on October 31, 2015. During the closure periods, Sheraton Algarve invites guests to discover the Pine Cliffs Residence, a Luxury Collection Resort & Pine Cliffs Resort properties located within the resort, offering access to available facilities. Experience World-class Service at Sheraton Algarve. This 5-star hotel has a stunning cliff-top location above Portugal’s longest beach, Praia da Falesia. falésia
Sheraton Pine Cliffs Resort is an all integrated resort, managed by Starwood Hotels through its Luxury Collection brand. Guest at the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments enjoy various services provided by the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Resort. For those guests at the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments who are looking for total privacy without missing the perfect service of a five star hotel, we offer Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments of various styles and sizes:
Conceived as a tribute to the Maritime and Moorish Heritage, the Sheraton Algarve, a Luxury Collection Hotel provides guests an intimate retreat in a breath-taking coastal location with unique views of the Atlantic, fused in a world of leisure and gastronomy. 
The Sheraton Pine Cliffs Resort is located just so 20 km from Faro International Airport (FAO) making the transfer time to the resort around 40 minute. The Sheraton Pine Cliffs Resort in the Algarve is approx 7 km from the centre of Albufeira and 10km from Vilamoura. For those guests at the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments who are looking for total privacy without missing the perfect service of a five star hotel, we offer Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments of various styles and sizes:
Influenced by Portugal's Arab heritage, Sheraton Algarve Hotel features a rich cultural history and attentive service. Enjoy Albufeira's surroundings at the exciting Pine Cliffs 9-hole Golf Course or the golf academy or be revitalized by the clear water of one of our swimming pools. The Sheraton Algarve Hotel stands proudly on a cliff-top surrounded by pine trees and overlooks miles of unspoiled beaches edging the clear, blue sea. The serene architecture creates a charming combination of airy interiors, open patios, intimate spaces, and garden
Pine Cliffs Resort, a unique place in the world! The Luxury Collection and Sheraton Hotel as part of Starwood is a guarantee of quality in various types of accommodation and all the services offered at Pine Cliffs Resort. The Pine Cliffs Resort for many is the best kept secret of the Algarve located in an extension of 70 hectares.
The Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments at the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Resort are one of the best luxury apartments to rent in the Algarve. For those guests at the Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments who are looking for total privacy without missing the perfect service of a five star hotel, we offer Sheraton Pine Cliffs Residence Apartments of various styles and sizes:
Pine Cliffs winner for the sixth time at the World Travel Awards. O Sheraton Algarve Hotel, localizado no Pine Cliffs Resort, um Resort de 5 estrelas na costa algarvia, foi distinguido, pela 6ª vez, com o premio prémio “De Melhor Resort familiar Em” portugal Nos World Travel awards (2015). wta 