CraigCole59, You can modify the print scale by going to File/Print and then hitting Page Setup at the bottom of the printer information. I'd try fit to 1 page wide by 1 page tall. Yes with Project 2010 the legend is rather busy. You can delete it entirely from your print by using the Legend tab on the page setup window. Opt for legend on no pages. If you do want a legend but only a reduced set, click on the Format icon on the Format ribbon item.
I have a small project 15 line items that MS Project 2010 wants to print on 4 pages (8.5x11), it should fit on 1, but I can't find a way to make it do that (like Excel Does). Help menu, in this case is no help. Also, the legend at the bottom is huge, and I can't find a way to modify or review it. I'd try fit to 1 page wide by 1 page tall. Yes with Project 2010 the legend is rather busy. You can delete it entirely from your print by using the Legend tab on the page setup window. Opt for legend on no pages. If you do want a legend but only a reduced set, click on the Format icon on the Format ribbon item.
1 On the File tab, click Print, and then click Page Setup. 2  Click the View tab. 3  Click to select the Fit Timescale to End of Page check box. 4  Click OK. 5  On the File tab, click Print, and then click Page. In Microsoft Project, when you print or print preview a Gantt Chart view or a Usage view, task bars or columns of data may be printed on more pages than necessary, or you may see an additional timescale beyond the end of your project.
Add a header or footer. Click File Print. Click Page setup (just below the Settings section). Click the Header or Footer tab. Type your text in the Left, Center, or Right text box. Use the buttons below the text box to format the text or add elements: Page numbers. Time. You can include headers and footers on each printed page. Some views also include a legend of the types of Gantt bars on each printed page. You can add, remove, or change the headers, footers, and legends like this:
1 On the Project menu in Microsoft Project 98through 2007 (or the Tools menu in Microsoft Project versions 4.0 and 4.1), click Filtered For, and then click More Filters. 2  In the More Filters dialog box, click New. 3  In the Name field, type Marked Tasks as the name for your new filter. To create a Marked Tasks filter in Microsoft Project 2010: 1. On the View tab, click the Filter drop-down list, and then click More Filters. 2. In the More Filters dialog box, click New. 3. In the Name field, type Marked Tasks as the name for your new filter. Select the Show In Menu option
1 Click the View tab. 2  Click to select the Fit Timescale to End of Page check box. 3  Click OK. 4  On the File tab, click Print, and then click Page. 5  Click the Page tab. 6  Choose the scaling option you want to use. 7  Print your project. In Microsoft Project, when you print or print preview a Gantt Chart view or a Usage view, task bars or columns of data may be printed on more pages than necessary, or you may see an additional timescale beyond the end of your project.
1 On the File tab, click Print, and then click Page Setup. 2  Click the View tab. 3  Click to clear the Fit timescale to end of page check box. 4  Click OK. 5  If you do not get the result you want, continue to the next step. 6  Click the View tab. In Microsoft Project, when you print or print preview a Gantt Chart view or a Usage view, task bars or columns of data may be printed on more pages than necessary, or you may see an additional timescale beyond the end of your project.
Save as pdf in MS Project 2010. 1  Go to the File menu and Click Save As. 2  In the Save As dialog box enter a File name: and select PDF Files (*.pdf) from the Save as type: drop down menu. 3  Click Save. 4  Select your choices under Include Non-Printing Information and select if you want the PDF to be ISO 19005-1 compliant. Save as pdf in MS Project 2010. 1  Go to the File menu and Click Save As. 2  In the Save As dialog box enter a File name: and select PDF Files (*.pdf) from the Save as type: drop down menu. 3  Click Save. 4  The Document Export Options dialog will pop up.