The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses). Feci is the third principle part of the verb facio, or to do/make. Because it has a t at the end, that means it is in the perfect tense, 3rd person. So fecit means he/she/it m … ade/has made or did/has done. 2 people found this useful.
[ 3 syll. a-ma-tus, am-at-us ] The baby boy name Amatus is pronounced as aa-M AA-TahS †. Amatus is used chiefly in German and its origin is Latin. Amatus is a variant of the name Amadeus (English and German). Amatus is also a variant of the name Amyas (English) in the German language. Amatus is not commonly used as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 
Ancient Tevene Edit. Ancient Tevene is the ancient and dead language of Tevinter Imperium. The annums (annual holidays) in the Thedosian calendar use a high name from Ancient Tevene, and a low name (Trade tongue). 1  Maleficar : One who is depraved..
Amatus Edit. I removed the definition for Amatus as loved as I'm not sure if that is correct. Dorian does refer to the Inquisitor as Amatus if they are in a relationship, but I don't know if it directly translates as loved. It could mean Love or Sweetheart, etc. Unless it's specified somewhere. -- ♫ Kelcat 00:47, December 21, 2014 (UTC).
Amatus /am-a-tus/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Latin derivation, and the meaning of Amatus is God's love. Amatus is a version of Amadeus (Latin). Amat is a common last name. Amatus is also an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Amatus and related names. Amado is the only prominent alternative form of Amatus (not ranked) .
Ama /ama/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced AH-ma. It is of Ghanaian origin, and the meaning of Ama is born on Saturday. Akan name. Kreatif forms: Amaai, Amaau, Auama. Ama is pronounced similarly to Aimy, Amaia, Amaya ▲ , Amee, Amey, Ami ▼ , Amia ▲ , Amiah, Amie ▼ , Amiya ▲ , Amy ▲ , Amya ▼ , Amye, Aymi, Ema, Emma ▲ , Ima ▼ , Oma ▼ , Ooma, Uma and Yuma.
Amathus (Ancient Greek: ἀμαθοῦς) was one of the most ancient royal cities of Cyprus, on the southern coast in front of Agios Tychonas, about 24 miles west of Larnaca and 6 miles east of Limassol. Its ancient cult of Aphrodite was the most important, after Paphos, in Cyprus, her homeland, though the ruins of Amathus are less well-preserved than neighboring Kourion.
The site of the ruins is within the borders of this village, though the expansion of the Limassol tourist area has threatened the ruins: it is speculated that some of the hotels are on top of the Amathus necropolis. Its ancient cult of Aphrodite was the most important, after Paphos, in Cyprus, her homeland, though the ruins of Amathus are less well-preserved than neighboring Kourion.
Amatus is an uncommonly occurring first name for men. Amatus is also an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Amatus and related names. Amado is the only prominent alternative form of Amatus (not ranked) .