Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. Consistent intake of fermentable fiber through foods like berries and other fresh fruit, vegetables, whole grains, seeds, and nuts is now known to reduce risk of some of the world’s most prevalent diseases — obesity, diabetes, high blood cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, and numerous gastrointestinal disorders.
Vegetables. Artichokes are high in dietary fiber, with over 10 grams in a medium-size vegetable. Peas contain a notable amount as well, with nearly 9 grams of dietary fiber in a 1-cup serving. Broccoli and turnips aren’t far behind -- each of these vegetables has 5 grams of fiber in every 1-cup helping. Legumes. Legumes have large amounts of fiber per serving, and they make healthful, filling meals. A cup of cooked split peas has more than 16 grams of dietary fiber, and 1 cup of lentils has over 15 grams. Black beans also have 15 grams of fiber in each cup.
One simple way to increase fiber intake is to power up on bran. Bran from many grains is very rich in dietary fiber. Oat bran is high in soluble fiber, which has been shown to lower blood cholesterol levels. Wheat, corn, and rice bran are high in insoluble fiber, which helps prevent constipation. Bran can be sprinkled into your favorite foods,from hot cereal and pancakes to muffins and cookies. Many popular high-fiber cereals and bars are also packed with bran. 
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 1 Studies also have shown that high-fiber foods may have other heart-health benefits, such as reducing blood pressure and inflammation. 2  Helps control blood sugar levels. 3  In people with diabetes, fiber — particularly soluble fiber — can slow the absorption of sugar and help improve
High-fiber foods. by Anne Harding. Fiber can lower blood sugar, cut cholesterol, and may even prevent colon cancer and help you avoid hemorrhoids. If it were a drug, the world would be clamoring for it. But few people are getting enough. Women should get about 25 grams a day and men at least 35 to 40, but the average person gets just 15 grams a day
Eating fiber-rich whole foodsnot foods that tout added fiberis the best way to increase your fiber intake, says Carolyn Brown, RD, a nutritionist at Foodtrainers, in New York City. Here is a list of high-fiber foodsand tasty recipes that contain them. by Anne Harding. Fiber can lower blood sugar, cut cholesterol, and may even prevent colon cancer and help you avoid hemorrhoids. If it were a drug, the world would be clamoring for it. But few people are getting enough. Women should get about 25 grams a day and men at least 35 to 40, but the average person gets just 15 grams a day
A cup of lima beans provides more than 13 grams of dietary fiber, and 1 cup of vegetarian baked beans has more than 10 grams. Navy beans, kidney beans, chickpeas and black-eyed peas all have more than 8 grams of fiber in each 1-cup serving. Legumes. Legumes have large amounts of fiber per serving, and they make healthful, filling meals. A cup of cooked split peas has more than 16 grams of dietary fiber, and 1 cup of lentils has over 15 grams. Black beans also have 15 grams of fiber in each cup.
Cooked barley has 6 grams of fiber per cup, and bran flakes have more than 5 grams per 3/4-cup serving. A cup of cooked oatmeal has 4 grams of fiber. Air-popped popcorn has 3.5 grams of fiber in every 3-cup serving, and 1 cup of cooked brown rice has 3.5 grams. Legumes. Legumes have large amounts of fiber per serving, and they make healthful, filling meals. A cup of cooked split peas has more than 16 grams of dietary fiber, and 1 cup of lentils has over 15 grams. Black beans also have 15 grams of fiber in each cup.
Legumes consist of seeds that are covered by a pod or shell. This classification of foods, which includes beans, lentils, peanuts and peas, is high in both soluble and insoluble fiber. Black beans, kidney beans and navy beans are especially high in soluble fiber. Each contains at least 2 grams per 1/2-cup serving. 