The following is a list of cuisines. A cuisine is a specific set of cooking traditions and practices, often associated with a specific culture or region. Each cuisine involves food preparation in a particular style, of food and drink of particular types, to produce individually consumed items or distinct meals. Cuisines by region [edit]. 1  Global cuisine – a cuisine that is practiced around the world. 2  A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific region, country or culture.
1. Cuisines reflect the cultural variety of countries regions and their diverse history affected by the civilization. Each country has its own cuisine that differs from other countries and represents the country's customes, traditions and the kinds of foods that its people adore. Middle eastern cuisine encompasses a range of cooking styles from a number of different countries. Arabian, Syrian, Moroccan, Greek, Egyptian, and many other cuisines. The spices and flavors of Middle Eastern food awaken the senses, sparkling against the thicker, richer tastes of the main ingredients.
• Thai Cuisine. Thai food is one of the most popular of world cuisines in recent times. Thai food is different from the Chinese cuisine most of us know and love. Even though the two use many similar ingredients, Thai food uses more noodle dishes, fresh herbs and broths. Unlike Chinese cuisine, there are a great many Thai dishes with vegetables in a thick extra rich source. The food of Japan is probably the cooking that is most unique. Many ingredients used in dishes are simply not found in the food of other countries. The mastery of Japanese food relies on the freshest ingredients meticulously prepared. Seasonality is also a major factor in Japanese cuisine.
1 Global cuisine – a cuisine that is practiced around the world. 2  A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific region, country or culture. 3  To become a global cuisine, a local, regional or national cuisine must spread around the world; it's food served world-wide. Cuisines by region [edit]. 1  Global cuisine – a cuisine that is practiced around the world. 2  A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific region, country or culture.
List Criteria: Distinctive styles of food. This is a list of the favorite types of cuisine, chosen by Ranker users. Whether it's Italian cuisine (real Italian, we're not just talking pizza here), Chinese or something a bit more exotic, like Moroccan food, people are passionate with their palates. 
Search: Switch to Cambridge Pubs. This page lists the different types of cuisine. Click on a category to view the restaurants in that type. Some restaurants serve a variety of dishes from around the globe and therefore do not conform to any single category. 
RE: what are different types of cuisine? i know theres like italian, and mediterranean, american, asian, etc. but could someone tell me what kinds/types of foods u&#39;d get from different cuisines (like i figured u could get pastas, and stuff from itallian cuisine). show more i know theres like italian, and mediterranean, american, asian, etc. but could someone tell me what kinds/types of foods u'
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to cuisines: Cuisine – specific set of cooking traditions and practices, often associated with a specific culture. 
1 A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific region, country or culture. 2  To become a global cuisine, a local, regional or national cuisine must spread around the world; it's food served world-wide. Cuisines by region [edit]. 1  Global cuisine – a cuisine that is practiced around the world. 2  A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific region, country or culture.