The Koala is a marsupial. The Koala phascolarctos cinereus is an arboreal (tree dwelling), herbivorous (plant eating) marsupial. The word 'marsupial' comes from the Latin word marsupium, meaning 'pouch’ – most, but not all, female marsupials have a permanent pouch in which to raise their young. Unlike other arboreal marsupials such as the tree kangaroo, the Koala does not have an external tail, although vestiges of a tail are still present in the skeletal structure of the Koala which indicate that at some time in its evolutionary history an external tail was present. It shares this feature with the wombat.
Marsupials are an infraclass of mammals living primarily in Australasia and the Americas. A distinctive characteristic, common to most species, is that the young are carried in a pouch. Well-known marsupials include kangaroos, wallabies, the koala, possums, opossums, wombats and the Tasmanian devil. Other marsupials include the numbat, bandicoots, bettongs, the bilby, quolls, and the quokka. Marsupials represent the clade originating with the last common ancestor of extant metatherians. Even today, marsupials in many cases have 40 to 50 teeth, which is significantly more in comparison to placental mammals. There is a high number of incisors in the upper jaw, up to ten, and they have more molars than premolars.
Marsupial young are born very undeveloped. Moving purely by instinct, the baby joey (the term for all marsupial young) makes its way to the mother's pouch, where the young joey latches onto a teat, remaining there to continue its growth and development. Moving purely … by instinct, the baby joey (the term for all marsupial young) makes its way to the mother's pouch, where the young joey latches onto a teat, remaining there to continue its growth and development. Many marsupials have the mammary glands enclosed within a protective pouch
A marsupial is a kind of mammal. A kangaroo is a kind of marsupial. Therefore, a kangaroo is both a marsupial and a mammal. Though, they are technically considered a marsupial … , because it is a more specific sub-class than the broad term mammals. Moving purely … by instinct, the baby joey (the term for all marsupial young) makes its way to the mother's pouch, where the young joey latches onto a teat, remaining there to continue its growth and development. Many marsupials have the mammary glands enclosed within a protective pouch
Though often called the koala bear, this cuddly animal is not a bear at all; it is a marsupial, or pouched mammal. After giving birth, a female koala carries her baby in her pouch for about six months. 
- Koalas are not bears. They are not placental or 'eutherian' mammals, but MARSUPIALS, which means that their young are born immature & they develop further in the safety of a pouch. It’s incorrect to call them ‘Koala bears' - their correct name is simply 'Koalas'.
Marsupials have the typical characteristics of mammals, like a fur coat. There are, however, striking differences in addition to a number anatomical features that separate them from the higher mammals (Eutheria). Even today, marsupials in many cases have 40 to 50 teeth, which is significantly more in comparison to placental mammals. There is a high number of incisors in the upper jaw, up to ten, and they have more molars than premolars.
Although a mammal with a pouch is always a marsupial (with the exception of the echidna, which develops a rudimentary pouch during breeding season), not all marsupials have pouches, for example, the numbat of Western Australia. All marsupials are mammals, but not all mammals are marsupials. Moving purely … by instinct, the baby joey (the term for all marsupial young) makes its way to the mother's pouch, where the young joey latches onto a teat, remaining there to continue its growth and development. Many marsupials have the mammary glands enclosed within a protective pouch
Marsupial Mammals. Marsupials are the group of mammals commonly thought of as pouched mammals (like the wallaby and kangaroo at left). They give live birth, but they do not have long gestation times like placental mammals. Instead, they give birth very early and the young animal, essentially a helpless embryo, climbs from the mother's birth canal to the nipples. There. it grabs on with its mouth and continues to develop, often for weeks or months depending on the species. The short gestation time is due to having a yolk-type placenta in the mother marsupial. Placental mammals nourish the developing embryo using the mother's blood supply, allowing longer gestation times.