He is still known as one of the greatest heavyweights to ever step into the ring. Tyson never had a relationship with his father. His mother died when he was just 16 years old. His sister died at age of 24. 
Retired American boxer, Michael Gerard “Mike” Tyson, has an estimated net worth of $1 million. Tyson is a former undisputed heavyweight champion of the world and holds the record as the youngest boxer to win the WBC, WBA and IBF world heavyweight titles, he was 20 years, 4 months and 22 days old. Tyson declared bankruptcy in 2003, despite receiving over US$30 million for several of his fights and $300 million during his career.Same year rapper, 50 Cent bought Mike Tyson ‘s Farmington, Conn., mansion for $4.1 million.
These are the richest athletes in the world! Here you will find a listing of the highest paid players from every sport, including basketball, baseball, football, hockey, tennis and many more. Find out who has the highest net worth at the Top 50 Richest Athletes list. John Isner net worth: John Isner is an American professional tennis player who has a net worth of $4 million.
Cus D'Amato quickly took over Tyson's training responsibilities and would even become Mike's legal guardian when at 16 his mother died. Mike Tyson Net Worth. Mike Tyson Net Worth – The Rise to Fame and Fortune: Tyson's first victory came at the 1982 Junior Olympics where won a silver medal. Mike Tyson Net Worth: Mike Tyson is a retired American boxer who was the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world. Mike Tyson currently has a net worth of $1 million. During the peak of his career, Mike Tyson earned and squandered an entire $300 million fortune
Reports indicate that at the peak of his 20-year career, Mike Tyson net worth stood at about $400 million. However, his admittedly extravagant lifestyle saw his wealth drop astoundingly. In his autobiography The Undisputed Truth, Mike Tyson relays some of his experiences on life's fast lane. 
Boxing promoter Don King lifts new the heavyweight champion after Tyson defeated Trevor Berbick in Las Vegas on November 22, 1986 - Tyson says Don King wreaked his life. 'The problem was that I spent $62 million that year,' Tyson said, including $2.1 million on cars. Sex behind bars with his drug counselor, bankruptcy and telling his wife he had AIDS: Mike Tyson on jail-time (and why he sometimes thinks about killing someone so he can go back for good). 1  Tyson had sex with prison visitors and then with a prison drug counselor after he paid $10,000 to fix her roof.
The Boxers who turned a good fame of the boxing field also has shown good performance, Mike Tyson has also shown appearance in many of the movies and also part of the some big tv shows. Check out we have collected some of Mike Tyson data about acting and skills. 1  Scary Movie 5. Mike Tyson the one fantastic face of Boxing and one of the most powerful man in the Ring. He is a Heavyweight category boxers and there are many fighters whom he defeated.
The retired American boxer currently has an estimated net worth of $1 million. He earned over $300 million during his career but he was good at spending lots of money as he was good at fighting. s_bukley / Shutterstock.com. The boxer had a difficult childhood. He grew up in a dangerous neighborhood and was arrested 38 times by the time he was 13. 