A bruised toenail usually has a dark blue or black coloration on the toenail and can be quite painful. The coloration is due to the collection of blood and fluid beneath the nail. The small blood vessels get bruised when the toenail gets pulled back due to the small size of the shoes which put pressure on the nail. 
The exact amount of time that it will take a bruised toenail to heal will depend on how it became bruised and how severe the bruising is. In severe cases where the nail bed is bruised badly the toenail may fall off. If the bruised toenail does become loose and start to come off do not try to remove it. Let it come off on its own but make sure that you are protecting that toe until it does come off. You do not want to accidentally tear it off and cause other problems.
Toenail bruise: Introduction. Toenail bruise: Injury to underlying tissues or bone in which the skin is not broken, often characterized by ruptured blood vessels and discolorations. See detailed information below for a list of 8 causes of Toenail bruise, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
In this article. A subungual hematoma is a condition in which there is bleeding under the fingernail or toenail. Usually caused by a crush injury, a subungual hematoma can cause symptoms such as intense pain and throbbing as blood collects under the nail. The most common symptom of a subungual hematoma is severe, throbbing pain generated by the pressure of blood collecting between the nail and the nail bed. Other symptoms include: 1  A dark-colored discoloration (red, maroon, or purple-black) under all or part of the affected nail.
A bruised toenail may look like a small thing, but it can be gruelingly painful. Here are some tips that you can take when you bruise your toenail. A bruised toenail, though not a serious condition, can be very bothersome. A person with a bruised toenail, develops a dark blue or black colored spot on the toenail, which can be quite painful in some cases. A black toenail results from the collection of blood and fluids under the nail plate. It is also accompanied by swelling in many cases
bruise under toenail. This weekend, I was removing nail polish that had been on my toenails for a few months and I noticed what looked like a bruise along the left side of one of my big toes. It appears to be under the toenail and not on the surface (picture attached). There is no pain and it is not tender to the touch.
It can take up to three full months for a toenail to grow out completely. That's what the white spot is-damage to the nail. It is nothing to see a doctor about, though. You probably bruised your toe by stubbing it, or maybe by wearing tight or uncomfortable shoes that pressed weirdly on your toe. Best Answer: The bruise has probably healed by now, but when you get a bruise under your nail it stains the nail. You will just have to wait for the toe nail to grow out. The small white spot is probably a little 
Bruised Toenail. If a toenail suffers trauma, blood and fluid can build up underneath and a blue/brown/black mark (bruise) can appear. The mark gradually grows up with the nail. Occasionally as in the photo above a new toenail starts to grow. Long Toenails. If a toenail is too long. Treatment. Generally no treatment is required for a bruised toenail, only time and patience for the bruise to grow out. However if the bruise is severe a small drain hole can be drilled to drain some of the fluid away and relieve the pressure. In extreme cases the removal of the toenail with local anaesthetic is the only option