Transfer-only moves. Suicune can only learn these moves in previous generations. It must be taught the moves in the appropriate game and then transferred to Pokemon Pokémon Omega/Ruby Alpha. Sapphire. Move. Type. Cat. Power. acc Transfer-only moves. Suicune can only learn these moves in previous generations. It must be taught the moves in the appropriate game and then transferred to Pokemon Pokémon Omega/Ruby Alpha. sapphire
Suicune learns the following moves in Pokemon Pokémon/Ruby sapphire at the levels. specified Suicune does not learn any moves by breeding in Pokemon Pokémon/Ruby. sapphire
Transfer-only moves. Suicune can only learn these moves in previous generations. It must be taught the moves in the appropriate game and then transferred to Pokemon Pokémon/X. Y. Move. Type. cat Transfer-only moves. Suicune can only learn these moves in previous generations. It must be taught the moves in the appropriate game and then transferred to Pokemon Pokémon Omega/Ruby Alpha. sapphire
Suicune has a thick, purple mane that resembles the aurora borealis and two white, streamer-like tails that wave forward. It has a long, white snout. Suicune has a large, hexagonal, cerulean blue crest on its forehead that resembles the antlers of a Qilin with two prongs on either side of the base. Along with Raikou and Entei, it is one of the legendary beasts resurrected by Ho-Oh after the burning of the Brass Tower. Of the three legendary beasts, Suicune is said to represent the rains that quenched the flames of the burning
Description. Suicune is sky blue in color, with white rhombuses around the body and a white belly. Suicune has an aquamarine crest on its head which is in the shape of a hexagram. Behind its crest is a purple mane with supposedly thick, smooth fur. Two white, ribbon-like tails sprout out from Suicune's back and constantly flow forward. 
Suicune can only learn these moves in previous generations. It must be taught the moves in the appropriate game and then transferred to Pokemon Pokémon Omega/Ruby Alpha. Sapphire. Move. Type. cat Transfer-only moves. Suicune can only learn these moves in previous generations. It must be taught the moves in the appropriate game and then transferred to Pokemon Pokémon Omega/Ruby Alpha. sapphire
Checks and Counters. Pokemon Immune to Water: Suicune heavily relies on its Water STAB moves to do damage, especially on its CroCune set, where its only source of damage is Scald. Thus, Pokemon immune to Water such as Toxicroak and Gastrodon are very problematic to Suicune, as they can either attack or set up on it. Moves. This set uses Suicune's great defensive capabilities and access to Calm Mind to allow it to function as a boosting wall. Calm Mind boosts Suicune's Special stats, augmenting its special bulk as well as boosting its power.
Suicune is sky blue in color, with white rhombuses around the body and a white belly. Suicune has an aquamarine crest on its head which is in the shape of a hexagram. Behind its crest is a purple mane with supposedly thick, smooth fur. Two white, ribbon-like tails sprout out from Suicune's back and constantly flow forward. Cry. Suicune (Japanese: スイクン Suicun) is a Water-type Legendary Pokemon pokémon that is part of The Legendary beast trio From GENERATION. ii
Suicune is a Standard-type playable character in Pokken. Pokkén moves it can use Include Aurora, Beam Hydro, Pump Mirror, coat And. Blizzard In Burst, form it can use The Burst Attack True Sheer. cold Along with Raikou and Entei, it is one of the legendary beasts resurrected by Ho-Oh after the burning of the Brass Tower. Of the three legendary beasts, Suicune is said to represent the rains that quenched the flames of the burning