Health Benefits: 1. Prevent cancer and heart disease : Honey contains flavonoids, antioxidants which help reduce the risk of some cancers and heart disease. 2. Reduce ulcers and other gastrointestinal disorders. 
Health Benefits: 1. Prevent cancer and heart disease : Honey contains flavonoids, antioxidants which help reduce the risk of some cancers and heart disease. 2. Reduce ulcers and other gastrointestinal disorders. Recent research shows that honey treatment may help disorders such as ulcers and bacterial gastroenteritis. Discover the health benefits of one of the oldest sweeteners on earth, plus some interesting trivia, some great recipes and a few cautions. Bees swallow, digest and regurgitate nectar to make honey; this nectar contains almost 600 compounds.
The benefits of honey don't just stop at satisfying the palate; honey also offers incredible antiseptic, antioxidant and cleansing properties for our body and health, valuable beauty and skin care tips for ladies, and amazing healing properties as a head-to-toe home remedy, from eye infection to athlete foot. Besides its profound medicinal applications, honey also brings great synergistic health benefits when combined with other foods such as bee pollen, cinnamon, ginger and cider vinegar. Discover them, one by one at Honey Cure and Tonic Concoctions and learn what people who have tried them have to say.
Discover the enormous host of honey benefits; the myriad floral tastes and countless health applications. The versatility of honey and the goodness it can bring into your everyday practical life is WOW! Besides its profound medicinal applications, honey also brings great synergistic health benefits when combined with other foods such as bee pollen, cinnamon, ginger and cider vinegar. Discover them, one by one at Honey Cure and Tonic Concoctions and learn what people who have tried them have to say.
It can be used as an antioxidant, it has antimicrobial, antibacterial and anti-fungal properties, it boosts athletic performance, and it is a rich source of vitamins and minerals. Milk and honey are used by many for their skin care benefits. However, the benefits of honey that we get greatly depend on its quality. One can eat honey directly, put it on bread like a jam, mix it with juice or any drink instead of sugar, or mix it with warm water, lime juice, cinnamon and other herbs to make a medicine. It is savored by all due to its taste as well as health benefits, making it extremely useful and versatile.
While the numerous health benefits of honey have made it an important element of traditional medicines such as Ayurvedic treatments, scientists are also researching the benefits of honey in relation to modern medicine, particularly in the healing of wounds. One can eat honey directly, put it on bread like a jam, mix it with juice or any drink instead of sugar, or mix it with warm water, lime juice, cinnamon and other herbs to make a medicine. It is savored by all due to its taste as well as health benefits, making it extremely useful and versatile.
Honey /ˈhʌni/ is a sweet food made by bees using nectar from flowers. The variety produced by honey bees (the genus Apis) is the one most commonly referred to, as it is the type of honey collected by most beekeepers and consumed by people. 
Weight Loss: Though honey has more calories than sugar, when honey is consumed with warm water, it helps in digesting the fat stored in your body. Similarly, honey and lemon juice as well as honey and cinnamon help in reducing weight. Read more about the benefits of honey in weight loss. Energy Source: According to the USDA, honey contains about 64 calories per tablespoon. Therefore, honey is used by many people as a source of energy. On the other hand, one tablespoon of sugar will give you about 15 calories. One can eat honey directly, put it on bread like a jam, mix it with juice or any drink instead of sugar, or mix it with warm water, lime juice, cinnamon and other herbs to make a medicine. It is savored by all due to its taste as well as health benefits, making it extremely useful and versatile.
Honey's often thought of as a healthier sweetener, but you might be surprised to learn that this ingredient has tons of skin and hair benefits, too. Made by the alchemy of bees collecting nectar, pollen, and resins from flowers, honey can help moisturize, fight aging, and fight bacteria. 
The possible health benefits of consuming honey have been documented in early Greek, Roman, Vedic, and Islamic texts and the healing qualities of honey were referred to by philosophers and scientists all the way back to ancient times, such as Aristotle (384 - 322 BC) and Aristoxenus (320 BC). Honey has been consumed for thousands of years for its supposed health benefits. Modern science is finding that many of the historical claims that honey can be used in medicine may indeed be true.