Description [edit]. Its wings feature an orange and black pattern, and over most of its range it is a Muellerian müllerian mimic with the monarch (Butterfly danaus). Plexippus the'viceroy s wingspan is between 53 and 81. mm The viceroy has a lighter color pattern in Georgia in the United States, and it changes to a darker color pattern in the southern part of Florida as they switch from one model to another. The viceroy butterfly is a perfect mimic of its model the monarch (Danaus plexippus) that has chemical defenses.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. the monarch butterfly is bad tasting. the viceroy butterfly mimics the appearance of the monarch butterfly to trick predators into thinking that they are monarch butterflies, hence avoiding being eaten. mimicking other organisms to fool predators is known as MIMICRY. 
A similarly colored butterfly, the Queen, is a close relative of the Monarch that also tastes bad because of its milkweed-eating caterpillar. The Viceroy, on the other hand, is a mimic. It too is an orange-and-black species, but it does not feed on milkweeds and it is probably pretty tasty (to a bird). But because it resembles the Monarch in some parts of its range, and the darker Queen in other parts, birds avoid it, too.
The viceroy and monarch were once thought to exhibit Batesian mimicry where a harmless species mimics a toxic species. Studies conducted in the early 1990's suggest that the viceroy and the monarch are actually examples of Mullerian mimicry where two equally toxic species mimic each other to the benefit of each. A row of white spots edge its wings. Its color and pattern mimics the monarch butterfly's pattern except for a black horizontal stripe that crosses the bottom of its back wings. The viceroy caterpillar is white and olive-brown.
Photo credit: Noah Cole. Mimics are creatures that copy another species, they often take on disguises as a way to hide from predators. Monarch butterflies are poisonous to many animals because of the milkweed plant that they eat, many scientists believe this is why the Viceroy copies their toxic friend’s look. 
Imitation is often described as the sincerest form of flattery, but for the viceroy and monarch butterflies, whose patterns of orange and black wing coloration are remarkably similar, it is a form of survival. But there was another finding that emerged from the 1958 study—the viceroy, though more palatable than the monarch, was still less palatable compared with non-mimetic butterflies. And in fact, as caterpillars, viceroys feed on the leaves of willows and poplars, species that produce noxious chemicals to deter herbivores.
the monarch butterfly is bad tasting. the viceroy butterfly mimics the appearance of the monarch butterfly to trick predators into thinking that they are monarch butterflies, … hence avoiding being eaten.   mimicking other organisms to fool predators is known as MIMICRY. 3 people found this useful. The Vicerey butterfly is very similar to the Monarch but is smaller and has an extra curved line on the bottom wings. Vicorey butterflies are popular because of their mimicry.Monarch butterflies eat milk weed so when a preditor eats it it poisons the preditor.So when preditors see the Vicorey, they don't eat it.
The viceroy (Limenitis archippus) is a North American butterfly that ranges through most of the contiguous United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. The viceroy has a lighter color pattern in Georgia in the United States, and it changes to a darker color pattern in the southern part of Florida as they switch from one model to another. The viceroy butterfly is a perfect mimic of its model the monarch (Danaus plexippus) that has chemical defenses.
It had been long accepted that the viceroy practiced Batesian mimicry, with the monarch and the queen serving as models. Batesian mimicry is a type of defensive behavior in which a palatable species closely resembles unpalatable or toxic species to avoid predation. The viceroy has a lighter color pattern in Georgia in the United States, and it changes to a darker color pattern in the southern part of Florida as they switch from one model to another. The viceroy butterfly is a perfect mimic of its model the monarch (Danaus plexippus) that has chemical defenses.