I am reluctant to call any given transistor power amplifier a best buy or breakthrough.. From my talks with designers and other audiophiles, it is clear that the state of the art in power amplifiers is about to change. From where I stand, the Adcom GFA-555 is the first sample of this new wave. It is so clearly superior to past amplifiers in the low-to mid-priced range—not to mention most amplifiers two to three times its pric—that I can unhesitatingly recommend it for even the most demanding high end system. The Adcom does not lose sweetness and detail as its power goes up. I am normally leery of transistor amplifiers rated much above 100 watts; they too often blur detail and harmonic information, and this sonic price tag is far more costly than the added power is worth.
Wrong, of course. Adcom appears to be having the same problem with their $299.95 GFA-535 amp. Credibility. Now if this amplifier were imported from England and sold for $599.95, then maybe it would be taken seriously. Probably Thiels, tooat least the CS1.2. What it means is you can stretch your speaker budget a bit and get the speakers you really want, then economize by buying an Adcom GFA-535 for $299.95. True, you may be a little power shy, but probably not much. And to say the least, the GFA-535 would make a decent interim amp.
ADCOM is a part of Advantage Group, which imports IT products, tablets and mobiles in India. Advantage Computers (Adcom) was established in 1997. With its head office in New Delhi, Adcom deals in several products-the most recent categories being smartphones. Filters
In its price category, the Adcom GFA-535 is not only an excellent choice; it's the only choice. The real question is whether you should buy one even if $299.95 is much less than you planned to spend for an amp ie, whether you should put the money into a better CD player or pair of speakers instead. Probably Thiels, tooat least the CS1.2. What it means is you can stretch your speaker budget a bit and get the speakers you really want, then economize by buying an Adcom GFA-535 for $299.95. True, you may be a little power shy, but probably not much. And to say the least, the GFA-535 would make a decent interim amp.
The Adcom may even be a legitimate rival to the Krell; it's brighter and more dynamic; and somewhat more open. And, like the Krell, it gives the impression, on really good material, that the amplifier simply isn't there. Nor is the Adcom romantic or sweet, like New York Audio's new Moscodes. The Adcom does not lose sweetness and detail as its power goes up. I am normally leery of transistor amplifiers rated much above 100 watts; they too often blur detail and harmonic information, and this sonic price tag is far more costly than the added power is worth.
A pioneer of the affordable high-end audio genre, Adcom brought the philosophy of efficient, no-frills, high-current designs to the masses. After following up with the GFA -1A, GFA -2, GFP -1 preamplifier, and GFT -1 tuner, Adcom firmly established itself as a high-end audio superpower with the GFA -555, designed by Nelson Pass. Today, Adcom has launched a comeback and is now trying to break back into the affordable high-end audio and home theater market.
Committees & Meeting Materials. How to become a member of an advisory committee, common questions, and the laws, regulations, and guidances that govern the committees. Committee information, charter, meeting materials, committee roster, etc. 1 September 11, 2015: Joint Meeting of the Anesthetic and Analgesic Drug Products Advisory Committee and the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee Meeting Announcement.
You just don't get the solidity and extension you get with a very powerful (and expensive) solid-state amp. Nor do you get the breadth and depth of soundstage that you often find with a very powerful amp. The Adcom GFA-535 sounds a wee bit small, which it is. My only criticism, and it's more of a quibble, is that the speaker connectors are nonstandard and unique (so far as I know). You insert bared speaker wire into a hole and twist the connector tight a quarter turn. Probably Thiels, tooat least the CS1.2. What it means is you can stretch your speaker budget a bit and get the speakers you really want, then economize by buying an Adcom GFA-535 for $299.95. True, you may be a little power shy, but probably not much. And to say the least, the GFA-535 would make a decent interim amp.
After starting in phono cartridges, Adcom made its splash in the audio world with its GFA -1 Amplifier (with 'GF' standing for something sweet and wholesome), a 12-inch cube-shaped design that re-defined price-performance expectations in the category. After following up with the GFA -1A, GFA -2, GFP -1 preamplifier, and GFT -1 tuner, Adcom firmly established itself as a high-end audio superpower with the GFA -555, designed by Nelson Pass. Today, Adcom has launched a comeback and is now trying to break back into the affordable high-end audio and home theater market.