Allergies, cold, and flu can lead to sneezing that may result in broken blood vessels in the eye. • Coughing. When we cough, for any number of reasons, it may be cause for a broken blood vessel. The strain from heavy coughing could make the blood vessels in the eye to break. If you become worried about a broken blood vessel in the eye, you actually need not be concerned. There is usually no pain associated with a broken blood vessel in the eye. A broken blood vessel in the eye can be caused by a few different things.
Waking up to a red patch in the white part of your eye can be troubling, but take a deep breath—your eye isn’t exploding! You simply have a broken blood vessel, and it’s rarely as bad as it looks. The official name for a broken blood vessel in your eye is a subconjunctival (sub-kon-junk-TIH-vul) hemorrhage. Symptoms of this condition include: 1  Bright red patch on the white of the eye. 2  A slight sense of fullness in the eye or under the lid.
Burst a blood vessel in the back of throat, stopped quickly. throat had a red mark that appears to be a small broken blood vessel. It is about the size of a small pea ...I normally have a lot of sinus braining in the back of my throat. I do not have my tonsils ..
You don't mention where this blood vessel is? For instance, a blood vessel may hemorrhage in the white of eye (sclera) when you cough hard or sneeze hard. Blood vessels in the rectum (hemorrhoids) rupture and bleed with straining and hard stools. My throat looks like it's bleeding but not maybe broken blood vessels and throat is sore. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Nothing is wrong.: Quite the contrary, everything is right.
1 87% - Can you break a blood vessel in your nose by coughing too hard? 2  50% - Can hard coughing cause blood vessels in the throat area to break? 3  34% - What causes a blood vessel in throat to bust when coughing in the morning after sleep? at first it was random and now more often but not every morning? 1 57% - Can you burst a blood vessel in your head blood around eye lower ear lobe? 2  37% - Why is there blood on my eyeball? did i pop a blood vessel? 3  71% - Can you pop a blood vessel by vomiting?
1 44% - Blood vessel /bruising on the eye lid how to reduce it? 2  50% - I got a popped blood vessel in my eye from throwing up? 3  56% - When a blood vessel burst in inside your head? 4  47% - When you turn your head really quick and feel a blood vessel pop? 1 57% - Can you burst a blood vessel in your head blood around eye lower ear lobe? 2  37% - Why is there blood on my eyeball? did i pop a blood vessel? 3  71% - Can you pop a blood vessel by vomiting?
Best Answer: Yes it is. But not to worry, it's usually just little blood vessels that have burst from the greatly increased pressure you put on them. Treat the cause of the cough and you will stop bleeding. Yes, TB can cause you to cough up blood but it isn't necessary to cough long and hard in that case. God bles
Hemoptysis (which is pronounced he-MOP-tis-is) is coughing up blood from the respiratory tract. Blood can come from the nose, mouth, throat, the airway passages leading to the lungs, or the lungs. The word hemoptysis comes from the Greek haima, meaning blood, and ptysis, which means a spitting. 
Yes. If you have a respiratory infection, or really any bad cough, you can burst blood vessels in your lung or throat and there will be blood in your phlegm. Or just blood if it's a dry cough. It's usually more likely to be your throat that the blood is coming from and not your lungs. But not to worry, it's usually just little blood vessels that have burst from the greatly increased pressure you put on them. Treat the cause of the cough and you will stop bleeding. Yes, TB can cause you to cough up blood but it isn't necessary to cough long and hard in that case.
1 56% - Can hard coughing cause blood vessels in the throat area to break? 2  43% - When blood vessels in your neck break? 3  48% - Why can i see my blood vessels through my legs? 4  26% - My eyelids look like all the blood vessels broke, what could be wrong and what should i do? 