edit Science and superstition. Medically, some disorders, particularly genetic ugliness could be associated with unibrows. However, the vast majority of persons with a unibrow have no such condition, and the connection to beauty is wildly exaggerated in the popular imagination of those ugly people. By far, the most successful unibrow is Ray Mears'. His monobrow has appeared in films, television, and radio (Wake Up to Wogan). Ray Mears' Unibrow has been named the most influential anatomical feature every year since the awards began. Some of it's quotes are quoted by people. Sometimes.
Researchers at 23andMe have found that people with Parkinson’s disease tend to have certain personality traits and preferences. Parkinson’s disease is a degenerative neurological illness that results in a progressive loss of motor skills. In addition to exploring the genetic basis for the disease, 23andMe researchers have also discovered some interesting characteristics about people suffering from this condition. PCA plot of genetic ancestry with likelihood of Parkinson's disease and basal cell carcinoma. Customer data for Parkinson's disease and basal cell carcinoma (the most common form of skin cancer) are plotted on two-dimensional graphs and distributed based on genetic ancestry.
It cannot be a dominant trait. You probably know of people who had unibrows while their parents didn't. If you have a heterozygous set of genes, meaning one of a kind, and unibrows are dominant, then it would mean you had one. But since the trait must have come from one of your parents, everyone with a unibrow would have a parent with one
You’d be forgiven for assuming your height has nothing to do with the curl of your hair or how flexible you are, but physical traits can sometimes have unexpected connections. It’s not surprising that a single trait — having a unibrow, for instance — might be influenced by any number of different genetic variants. In the case of unibrow, we’ve found more than 50 genetic variants associated with the trait. Last week at the annual meeting of the American Society of Human Genetics in San Francisco, 23andMe’s Principal Scientist and Statistical Geneticist Nick Eriksson presented findings from our database about 300 new genetic associations with various physical traits.
In a rare instance of positive associations with a unibrow in Western Culture, the first pick of the 2012 NBA Draft, Anthony Davis of the University of Kentucky, trademarked the phrases Fear the brow and Raise the brow, which reference Davis' famed unibrow. People in Western cultures may pluck, wax, or use other treatments to rid themselves of this feature. However, in non-Western cultures, this facial hair does not have this stigma, and is seen as a sign of feminine beauty, where connected eyebrows are a sign of virginity and of being unmarried.
A unibrow (or monobrow; called synophrys in medicine) is the presence of abundant hair between the eyebrows, so that they seem to converge to form one long eyebrow. People in Western cultures may pluck, wax, or use other treatments to rid themselves of this feature. However, in non-Western cultures, this facial hair does not have this stigma, and is seen as a sign of feminine beauty, where connected eyebrows are a sign of virginity and of being unmarried.
In some cultures such as in Tajikistan, a unibrow is considered attractive in women. If there is no unibrow present, or if it is weak, it is drawn with kohl liner or a modern kajal pen to simulate a unibrow. People in Western cultures may pluck, wax, or use other treatments to rid themselves of this feature. However, in non-Western cultures, this facial hair does not have this stigma, and is seen as a sign of feminine beauty, where connected eyebrows are a sign of virginity and of being unmarried.
Dominant trait is a genetics term. A dominant trait is one which will be expressed if one of the parents has the gene for that trait. A recessive trait is one that will … be expressed only if both parents carry the trait. You probably know of people who had unibrows while their parents didn't. If you have a heterozygous set of genes, meaning one of a kind, and unibrows are dominant, then it would mean you had one.
They are also the reason why, even if neither of your parents necessarily had an anxiety disorder, one of them may have carried a recessive gene that you received as a dominant gene which predisposed you to anxiety. 
Historically, and in some cultures, for example Tajikistan, the unibrow is viewed as an attractive quality in men and women alike. People in Western cultures may pluck, wax, or use other treatments to rid themselves of this feature. However, in non-Western cultures, this facial hair does not have this stigma, and is seen as a sign of feminine beauty, where connected eyebrows are a sign of virginity and of being unmarried.