Visual identification of nutrient deficiency symptoms can be a practical tool for evaluating the nutrient status of the plant In addition to soil and tissue analysis. In order to correctly identify the nutrient deficiency, one should be familiar with the factors affecting their development. Symptoms such as tip burns, chlorosis or necrosis, which are characteristic to some nutrient deficiencies, can also be associated with other stresses. Here are some examples: Plant disease-some plant disease symptoms might be misinterpreted as nutrient deficiencies.
1 Nutrients are moved inside a plant to where they are most needed. 2  For example, a plant will try to supply more nutrients to its younger leaves than to its older ones. 3  When nutrients are mobile, symptoms of any deficiency become apparent first on the older leaves. 4  However, not all nutrients are equally mobile. Carbon and oxygen are absorbed from the air, while other nutrients are absorbed from the soil. Green plants obtain their carbohydrate supply from the carbon dioxide in the air by the process of photosynthesis. Each of these nutrients is used in a different place for a different essential function.
Micronutrients are thoseelements that plants need in small amounts(sometimes trace amounts), like iron, boron,manganese, zinc, copper, chlorine andmolybdenum. Both macro-and micronutrientsare naturally obtained by the roots from the soil.Plant roots require certain conditions to obtainthese nutrients from the soil. When plants sufferfrom malnutrition, they show symptoms of beingunhealthy. Too little or too much of any onenutrient can cause problems.Plant nutrients fall into 2 categories:macronutrients and micronutrients.Macronutrients are those elements that areneeded in relatively large amounts.
An important characteristic of some nutrients is the ability to move within the plant tissue. In general, when certain nutrients are deficient in the plant tissue, that nutrient is able translocate from older leaves to younger leaves where that nutrient is needed for growth. Nutrients with this ability are said to be mobile nutrients, and include nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, magnesium, and molybdenum.
Symptoms of Nutrient Deficiencies. Plants will usually display definite deficiencies if required nutrients are not present in adequate concentrations. The following symptoms may occur if the level of one mineral nutrient is not high enough to be within the range needed for best plant growth. A plant may exhibit a particular symptom for reasons other than a nutrient deficiency. However, if one of the deficiency symptoms occurs, a lack of the proper nutrient may be suspected, and the amount of that nutrient should be increased.
The mobility of a nutrient in the plant affects the location of the deficiency symptom on the plant. Deficiency symptoms of mobile nutrients will first develop on the older mature leaves. Basically, nutrients are translocated by the plant to its actively growing parts, which are the younger leaves. Symptoms such as tip burns, chlorosis or necrosis, which are characteristic to some nutrient deficiencies, can also be associated with other stresses. Here are some examples: Plant disease-some plant disease symptoms might be misinterpreted as nutrient deficiencies.
Water potential plays a key role in a plants nutrient uptake. If the water potential is more negative within the plant than the surrounding soils, the nutrients will move from the region of higher solute concentration—in the soil—to the area of lower solute concentration: in the plant. Carbon and oxygen are absorbed from the air, while other nutrients are absorbed from the soil. Green plants obtain their carbohydrate supply from the carbon dioxide in the air by the process of photosynthesis. Each of these nutrients is used in a different place for a different essential function.
Plants with potassium deficiencies have leaves that appear to be burned at the edges. A potassium nutrient deficiency will also show up in older leaves first. Secondary NutrientsSulfur, magnesium and calcium are secondary nutrients, also important to plant growth. Calcium Calcium is important in building cell walls within plants. Plants growing in sandy soils, or acidic (low pH) soils have a greater chance of calcium deficiency problems. Nutrient elements bind with parts of the soil. Factors such as the amount of organic matter in the soil, the soil pH, soil moisture content, soil temperature and other weather. Some nutrients are more accessible to plants when the pH is high, others when it is low.
The secondary nutrients, calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg) and sulfur (S), are as important to plant nutrition as the primary nutrients. Deficiency in secondary nutrients, including Ca, can depress plant growth as much as primary nutrient deficiencies do. 