There are no pine trees in Afghanistan, neither are there rattlesnakes, however the tree error can be overcome if the mountains east of Isalmabad or Abbottabad were the location of the target terrorist's hideout, there is foliage on those mountains. 
Afghanistan is a landlocked country in the heart of Asia, bordered by Pakistan to the south and east, Iran to the west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan to the north. There is a short border with China to the far northeast, but in extremely inaccessible terrain. There are a number of roads into Afghanistan: 1  From Peshawar, Pakistan via the Khyber Pass to Jalalabad, in the East. 2  The Torkham Gate serves as the border crossing, there is heavy presence of Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) on the Afghan side. 3  From Quetta, Pakistan to Kandahar, in the South.
Hahahah The book Lone Survivor is just like the movie. It is all a bunch of Hollywood hype. Anyhow that is funny that there is a rattlesnake in the film. I never did see any rattlers in Afghanistan, Just a few Monitors and one cobra, rat snakes too. IMDB finally put my observation in the goofs section for Lone Survivor, although they reworded it considerably from how I submitted it. There are no rattlesnakes in Afghanistan, they are an Americas only species.
While accurate for the film's shooting location in New Mexico, both are obviously wrong for Afghanistan. We all know that rattlesnakes only occur in the Americas and Poison Oak is only found in Western North America. IMDB finally put my observation in the goofs section for Lone Survivor, although they reworded it considerably from how I submitted it. There are no rattlesnakes in Afghanistan, they are an Americas only species.
GHUNDY GHAR, Afghanistan-As night falls on this small hilltop base in the heart of Taliban country in southern Afghanistan, U.S. Army soldiers break out their knives and flashlights and go hunting for some of the country's deadliest inhabitants: snakes and scorpions. U.S. Army Staff Sgt. Aaron Christensen pokes at a camel spider crawling on the ground in Afghanistan's Kandahar province. Christensen's most exciting discoveries have been the world's most dangerous scorpion, the death stalker, and one of Asia 's deadliest snakes, the saw scaled viper.
BRITS face a deadly new foe in Afghanistan-killer snakes. By Deborah Sherwood /. VENOMOUS: There is no antidote for the bite of a sawscaled viper [Kevin Palmer]. Among the species captured at Our Boys and Girls' Kandahar base was a rare diadem that has never before been seen in the wartorn country. Insiders say the previous closest sighting of the diadem snake to Afghanistan was 1,000 miles away in Kazakhstan. The dead specimens will be displayed in the US alongside exhibits collected by Charles Darwin, the 19th Century naturalist. TV wildlife expert Sir David Attenborough said the finds were exciting.
Iraqi Snake Species Identification. Five of the six species of venomous snakes that are known to naturally occur in Iraq are in the family Viperidae (vipers). The sixth species is a member of the family Elapidae (cobras).
Beyond that it just makes them look careless and stupid. Jeremy Westerman wrote: IMDB finally put my observation in the goofs section for Lone Survivor, although they reworded it considerably from how I submitted it. There are no rattlesnakes in Afghanistan, they are an Americas only species.
As night falls on this small hilltop base in the heart of Taliban country in southern Afghanistan, U.S. Army soldiers break out their knives and flashlights and go hunting for some of the country's deadliest inhabitants: snakes and scorpions. Perhaps with the scorpion in mind, one of the soldiers in the platoon, Spc. Jason Purdy, took up a dare from his buddy to eat a large camel spider after slicing off its jaws with a knife.
Rattlesnakes are a group of venomous snakes of the genera Crotalus and Sistrurus of the subfamily Crotalinae (pit vipers). The 36 known species of rattlesnakes have between 65 and 70 subspecies, all native to the Americas, ranging from southern Alberta and southern British Columbia in Canada to Central Argentina. The small proportion (often as few as 20%) of rattlesnakes that make it to their second year are heavily preyed upon by a variety of larger predators including coyotes, eagles, hawks, owls, feral pigs, badgers, indigo snakes, and kingsnakes.