There are indications, however, that silicon deficiency can lead to weakened bones, teeth, and connective tissue, and an increased risk of heart disease. Silicon is primarily found in raw, unprocessed produce, so deficiencies are more likely in the Western world, where cooked and processed food is the norm. Silicon is a mineral associated with youth as the ratio of silicon to calcium in the body is highest when we are young. The highest concentrations of silicon in the body are found in the hair and nails, but it is also associated with healthy skin, bones, and teeth
Background: Increasing evidence suggests that silicon is important in bone formation. The main source of silicon for humans is the diet, but the bioavailability of silicon from solid foods is not well understood. However, because fluids account for only 20–30% of total silicon intake (6– , 8), and because silica in solid foods could be hydrolyzed to orthosilicic acid in the gastrointestinal tract (9, 10), studies should be done to determine whether silicon may be available from foods.
First, we investigated whether silicon was available from a meal of silicon-rich foods that did not include silicon-containing fluids (study 1). Second, we investigated the gastrointestinal uptake of silicon from the major food sources of silicon in the Framingham cohorts (study 2). However, because fluids account for only 20–30% of total silicon intake (6– , 8), and because silica in solid foods could be hydrolyzed to orthosilicic acid in the gastrointestinal tract (9, 10), studies should be done to determine whether silicon may be available from foods.
Beverages, such as beer, coffee and water are the main dietary sources of silicon dioxide for the average person, providing about 55 percent of daily intake, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Other food sources for silicon dioxide include asparagus, Jerusalem artichokes, parsley, sunflower seeds and grain husks, such as from barley, oats, millet and wheat.
Silicon. Silicon is a mineral associated with youth as the ratio of silicon to calcium in the body is highest when we are young. The highest concentrations of silicon in the body are found in the hair and nails, but it is also associated with healthy skin, bones, and teeth
Plant foods tend to contain more silicon than animal foods, so vegetarians often have higher silicon intakes than meat eaters do. Red wine, beer, raisins, whole-grain bread, bran cereal, brown rice, green beans and mineral water are some of the more common sources of silicon. Other common sources are barley, oats, whole wheat, nuts, dried fruit, bananas, root vegetables, spinach, seafood and organ meats. Although beans tend to be lower in silicon, red lentils contain a significant amount of this nutrient. Drinking water may also contain some amount of silicon
Food Sources of Silicon. The Silica is primarily high in the foods that grow underground (Potatoes, Peanuts, Beets). The highest amount of Silica is in the skin (peel). Silica is also present in the fiber like substances in the foods, examples: the fibers emanating from the pit of the mangoes, the fibers in the celery). Silica is found in the bran of whole grains. Apples.
Silicon Rich Food Sources. The main food sources of silicon are apples, oranges, cherries, raisins, almonds, peanuts, raw cabbage, onions, endives, carrots, eggplants, pumpkin, red beets, celery, cucumber, fish, honey, and corn. 
Good whole-foods sources of niacin include meat, poultry, red fishes such as tuna and salmon, and seeds. Milk, green leafy vegetables, coffee, and tea also provide some niacin to the diet. Your liver can also convert tryptophan from high-protein foods like meats and milk into niacin. 