Report Abuse. In plants that undergo alternation of generations, a gametophyte is the structure, or phase of life, that contains only half of the total complement of chromosomes: The sporophyte produces spores, in a process called meiosis.
The gametophyte produces male or female gametes (or both), in a process called mitosis. The fusion of male and female gametes produces a zygote which develops into the sporophyte. In mosses (bryophytes) the gametophyte is the commonly known phase of the plant. An early developmental stage in the gametophyte of both mosses and ferns (immediately following the meiospore) is called the Protonema.
In many lower plants, the gametophyte phase is the dominant plant form; for example, the familiar mosses are the gametophyte form of the plants. The alternate phase of the plant life cycle is the sporophyte, the diploid plant form, with each cell containing two complete sets of chromosomes. For example, in mosses the sporophyte is a capsule atop a slender stalk that grows out of the top of the gametophyte. gametophyte (gəmēˈtəfĪtˌ) [ key ], phase of plant life cycles in which the gametes, i.e., egg and sperm, are produced. The gametophyte is haploid, that is, each cell contains a single complete set of chromosomes, and arises from the germination of a haploid spore.
The gametophyte is haploid, that is, each cell contains a single complete set of chromosomes, and arises from the germination of a haploid spore. In many lower plants, the gametophyte phase is the dominant plant form; for example, the familiar mosses are the gametophyte form of the plants.
The plant life cycle alternates between a multicellular haploid generation, called the gametophyte, and a multicellular diploid generation, called the sporophyte. In plants, meiosis gives rise to haploid spores, which undergo cell proliferation and differentiation to develop into gametophytes.
In bryophytes (mosses and liverworts), the dominant generation is haploid, so that the gametophyte comprises what we think of as the main plant. The opposite is true for tracheophytes (vascular plants), in which the diploid generation is dominant and the sporophyte comprise