Don’t Despair…. A friend of yours paid us to place these pink darlings in your yard. These flamingos will roost on your lawn until this evening when. they will mysteriously migrate to another friend’s (victim’s) lawn. 
All I could think of was somebody's got it in for me and they're gonna have fun, said Sullivan. When Sullivan returned from her birthday dinner, 75 flamingo yard ornaments were placed in her front yard with a big sign that read You've Been Flocked.. The Center for Independence decided to get creative with their fundraising, by enlisting the help of a few pink birds. Instead of sending a birthday card, The Center for Independence suggests you 'flock' a yard.
'You've been flocked' pink flamingo campaign spreading smiles for good cause. 'You've been Flocked' campaign lasts until April 18 (SOURCE: KTRE STAFF). All proceeds of the campaign will benefit the Joseph's House (SOURCE: KTRE STAFF). They're pink and they're bright and they're tacky and they're cute and it will bring a lot of attention and that's what we wanted. We want people to be like ‘hey, come flock us,' said Dawn Armstrong, the head of the paralegal department and member of the Rotaract Club at Angelina College.
A number of companies in locations throughout the country are involved in delivering the flamingo flocking service. Website support by Greencourt Software, Inc. Flamingo flocking refers to a form of lawn greeting. It involves the placement of a flock of plastic pink flamingoes in someone's yard. And of course, anyone can order a flocking for their own yard. Although flocks of flamingoes are commonly used, other creatures may be used, as well as temporary signs to help convey the desired message to the recipients. For example, a stork with appropriate signage can be used to announce the birth of a baby.
Tuesdays are the day that I highlight a particular fundraising event, sale, or process. Today, I am thrilled to bring you “Flamingo Flocking”! I have to admit, this is a variety of fundraiser that I was completely unaware of just a couple of days ago. But, in my pursuit to bring you creative options, I was struck by the audacity and simplicity of this idea and had to share. We are all familiar with the pink flamingo yard ornament. The more creative you get with this, the more fun your group will have. While a flamingo flocking fundraiser is a lot of fun, its potential to raise a large sum of money is limited. If your group managed one flock for thirty straight nights and received an average donation of $20 per night, you’d gross $600. If you spent $100 for the birds, your net is $500
The flocking might be ordered by someone for placement in a friend or family member's yard, as a practical joke, or to wish someone a happy birthday or celebrate some other special occasion. And of course, anyone can order a flocking for their own yard. Although flocks of flamingoes are commonly used, other creatures may be used, as well as temporary signs to help convey the desired message to the recipients. For example, a stork with appropriate signage can be used to announce the birth of a baby.
But just because you've been flocked doesn't mean you have to give. The Rotaract Club are leaving cute, little ransom notes on the neck of the flamingos asking if you want to donate to The Joseph's House. But they say it's perfectly alright if you decide not to and are ready for the flock to move onto its new home. They're pink and they're bright and they're tacky and they're cute and it will bring a lot of attention and that's what we wanted. We want people to be like ‘hey, come flock us,' said Dawn Armstrong, the head of the paralegal department and member of the Rotaract Club at Angelina College.
Every year around this time, if you live on Camp Lejeune, you will notice houses that have a flock of pink flamingos in their yards. And no, they aren't real flamingos. They are the pink plastic kind on metal sticks. And everyone knows what they mean.....You've been flocked!. The OWC holds a fundraiser every year for Relay for Life, which is the signature fundraising activity for The American Cancer Society. They have teams that go out at night and flock people. They leave you with the cute little flamingos and a note letting you know what it's all about.
Pink yard flamingos are either purchased or rented depending on availability, and also whether your group plans on making this an annual event. Once everything is in place, all that remains is to stop talkin' and start flockin'. Next your teams will need lots of pink flamingos, and the bigger your list, the more pink yard flamingos you are going to need. Ideally each team should have between 6 and 12 pairs of birds in order to properly flock someone.