Metamorphic rocks have been modified by heat, pressure and chemical processes, usually while buried deep below Earth's surface. Exposure to these extreme conditions has altered the mineralogy, texture and chemical composition of the rocks. There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure. Non-foliated metamorphic rocks such as hornfels, marble, quartzite, and novaculite do not have a layered or banded appearance. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common types of metamorphic rocks are shown on this page. Hornfels is a fine-grained nonfoliated metamorphic rock with no specific composition.
The original rock that has undergone metamorphism is called the protolith. Protolith can be any type of rock and sometimes the changes in texture and mineralogy are so dramatic that is difficult to distinguish what the protolith was. 1  Note that diagenesis and weathering are also a changes in form that occur in rocks.
Metamorphic rocks are formed when other types of rocks change because of the enormous pressure and heat they experience deep within the earth. 
Pictures of Foliated and Non-Foliated Rock Types. Amphibolite is a non-foliated metamorphic rock that forms through recrystallization under conditions of high viscosity and directed pressure. It is composed primarily of hornblende (amphibole) and plagioclase, usually with very little quartz. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. Non-foliated metamorphic rocks such as hornfels, marble, quartzite, and novaculite do not have a layered or banded appearance. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common types of metamorphic rocks are shown on this page. Hornfels is a fine-grained nonfoliated metamorphic rock with no specific composition.
Metamorphic Rocks. Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) can become a metamorphic rock. If rocks are buried deep in the Earth at high temperatures and pressures, they form new minerals and textures all without melting. If melting occurs, magma is formed, starting the rock cycle all over again. 1 the temperature and pressure conditions (metamorphic environment) in which the rock was formed. 2  the composition of the parent, or original unmetamorphosed, rock. 3  aids in the interpretation of the platetectonic setting in which the metamorphism took place. 4  aids in the reconstruction of the geological history of an area.
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution. 
Pictures of Metamorphic Rocks. Metamorphic rocks are those that form by the effects of heat, pressure and shear upon igneous and sedimentary rocks. Some form during mountain-building by forces of regional metamorphism, others from the heat of igneous intrusions in contact metamorphism. A third category forms by the mechanical forces of fault movements: cataclasis and mylonitization. This is just a starting point to explore the variety in metamorphic rocks.
The protolith may be a sedimentary rock, an igneous rock or another older metamorphic rock. Metamorphic rocks make up a large part of the Earth 's crust and are classified by texture and by chemical and mineral assemblage (metamorphic facies). They may be formed simply by being deep beneath the Earth's surface, subjected to high temperatures and the great pressure of the rock layers above it. Quartzite, a form of metamorphic rock, from the Museum of Geology at University of Tartu collection. Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form.