Application process. Here you'll find answers to questions about applying for a home loan and finding the home loan that's right for you. If you want to talk to a St.George home loan expert, call us on 13 33 30. 
You should contact a reputable local lender. If you have not started the process you will need to go through a pre-approval/pre-qualification, finding a home and then the loan application process. If you have already been through the first stages it should not take long, depending on the type of loan you getting. 
Find out what you can expect from the mortgage process when buying a home, applying for your mortgage and closing on your loan. As part of the mortgage process we also offer an On-time Purchase Closing Guarantee so you have the confidence of knowing you'll close your mortgage on time, or we'll pay you $500. Step 1: Get pre-approved for a mortgage loan. Start the home loan process by applying for a mortgage pre-approval as soon as you decide to start looking for a home to buy. A mortgage pre-approval letter is a great thing to have when shopping for a home. It gives you, and the seller of a property you are interested in, an idea of how much you can spend
Your school will apply the loan funds to your student account balance-what you owe for tuition and fees-and finally, if there is still money left-THEN they would send you a check for the difference. How long would all of that take? It depends on how efficient all of those steps were. 
The length of time between when you apply for a mortgage and when you get the funds for your home can vary widely depending on many factors. For purchases, generally sales contracts are written with a closing date set about 30 days out. Most purchase loans can be completed in 30 days. Often, if all of you numbers are good, such as credit score, debt-to-income, loan-to-value, etc., purchase loans can be completed much faster. Conversely, if your numbers and documentation are not so good, these loans can take longer.
How long does the loan process take?The length of time between when you apply for a mortgage and when you get the funds for your home can vary widely depending on many factors.For purchases, generally sales contracts are written with a closing date set about 30 days out. Most purchase loans can be completed in 30 days. Often, if all of you numbers are good, such as credit score, debt-to-income, loan-to-value, etc., purchase loans can be completed much faster. Conversely, if your numbers and documentation are not so good, these loans can take longer.
The closing can only take place after we receive the letter. If you have a Bank of America home equity loan or line of credit, we'll take care of completing the required Second Lien Release letter. If the second lien is with another lender, you'll have to contact that lender and request a Second Lien Release letter. The lender needs to provide this letter, sign it to indicate that they approve of the offer, and send it to you. If you receive an offer, your agent will need to submit the offer to us. Back.
Bank Financing at Dealers. The process is different if you're taking a loan through a car dealership. Once you've filled out your credit application there, your salesperson takes it to the dealership's finance office. Many banks let you apply for a car loan online. The form is similar to any other loan application: You fill out information about yourself, your credit and your income and assets. Some lenders can give you an approval in a minute or two; others might take a few hours.
Best Answer: I hope you applied to your bank for the loan. Generally, you could say one to two weeks. Your online application will be printed up and pass through various checks such as bankruptcy search, your ability to repay, is the requested sum in keeping with the internal regulations of the Company. 3 days-30 days it all depends on type of loan. somebody will contact you by phone or email. unless it is from a credit card company. loan, then it takes about 24-72 hours.