1 In a large skillet, heat the oil and butter over medium heat until the butter is melted. 2  Add the onion and saute sauté until tender but not, browned about 2. 3  Minutes add the crushed, tomatoes heavy, cream, salt and. 4  Pepper cook for 1, minute stirring.  occasionally What To Do: 1  In a large skillet, heat the oil and butter over medium heat until the butter is melted. 2  Serve immediately over hot cooked pasta and top with grated Parmesan cheese, if desired, or store in a covered container in the refrigerator until ready to reheat and serve.
1 Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. 2  Saute prosciutto, garlic, parsley, basil, salt and pepper until prosciutto is evenly brown. 3  Pour in vodka mixture, and simmer 10 minutes. 4  Crush tomatoes, and stir in with 2 cans of tomato sauce, and 1 (8 ounce) can water. 5  Simmer 15 minutes. 1 Set aside for 1 hour. 2  Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. 3  Saute prosciutto, garlic, parsley, basil, salt and pepper until prosciutto is evenly brown. 4  Pour in vodka mixture, and simmer 10 minutes. 5  Crush tomatoes, and stir in with 2 cans of tomato sauce, and 1 (8 ounce) can water. 6  Simmer 15 minutes.
Simmer the tomato sauce and vodka in a heavy large skillet over low heat until the mixture reduces by 1/4, stirring often, about 20 minutes. Stir the cream into the tomato and vodka sauce. Simmer over low heat until the sauce is heated through. Stir in the Parmesan cheese until melted and well blended. Meanwhile, cook the pasta in a large pot of boiling salted water until al dente, tender but still firm to the bite, stirring occasionally, about 8 minutes. 
1 Add the onion and saute sauté until tender but not, browned about 2. 2  Minutes add the crushed, tomatoes heavy, cream, salt and. 3  Pepper cook for 1, minute stirring. 4  Occasionally add the vodka and continue cooking for 2 minutes or until the vodka evaporates slightly and the sauce, thickens stirring.  occasionally What To Do: 1  In a large skillet, heat the oil and butter over medium heat until the butter is melted. 2  Serve immediately over hot cooked pasta and top with grated Parmesan cheese, if desired, or store in a covered container in the refrigerator until ready to reheat and serve.
What To Do: 1  In a large skillet, heat the oil and butter over medium heat until the butter is melted. 2  Add the onion and saute sauté until tender but not, browned about 2. 3  Minutes add the crushed, tomatoes heavy, cream, salt and.  pepper What To Do: 1  In a large skillet, heat the oil and butter over medium heat until the butter is melted. 2  Serve immediately over hot cooked pasta and top with grated Parmesan cheese, if desired, or store in a covered container in the refrigerator until ready to reheat and serve.
1 In a saucepan saute garlic, shallots and onion in olive oil, about 5 minutes. 2  Add canned tomatoes, fresh tomatoes, crushed red pepper and salt. 3  Stir, breaking up tomatoes and cook on medium to high heat for about 10 minutes. 4  Add heavy cream and vodka; stir. 5  Cook for an additional 5-10 minutes. 1 Add canned tomatoes, fresh tomatoes, crushed red pepper and salt. 2  Stir, breaking up tomatoes and cook on medium to high heat for about 10 minutes. 3  Add heavy cream and vodka; stir. 4  Cook for an additional 5-10 minutes. 5  If the mixture needs thickening, quickly stir in 1 tablespoon flour; cook until thick.
Directions. 1  In a saucepan saute garlic, shallots and onion in olive oil, about 5 minutes. 2  Add canned tomatoes, fresh tomatoes, crushed red pepper and salt. 3  Stir, breaking up tomatoes and cook on medium to high heat for about 10 minutes. 4  Add heavy cream and vodka; stir. 5  Cook for an additional 5-10 minutes. 1 Add canned tomatoes, fresh tomatoes, crushed red pepper and salt. 2  Stir, breaking up tomatoes and cook on medium to high heat for about 10 minutes. 3  Add heavy cream and vodka; stir. 4  Cook for an additional 5-10 minutes. 5  If the mixture needs thickening, quickly stir in 1 tablespoon flour; cook until thick.
(August 2011). Vodka sauce is an Italian sauce made from a smooth tomato sauce, vodka, typical Italian herbs and heavy cream, which gives the sauce its distinctive pink coloration. It gained popularity in the 1970s, when a variation won a national recipe contest in Italy. 
What To Do: 1  In a large skillet, heat the oil and butter over medium heat until the butter is melted. 2  Add the onion and saute sauté until tender but not, browned about 2. 3  Minutes add the crushed, tomatoes heavy, cream, salt and. 4  Pepper cook for 1, minute stirring.  occasionally What To Do: 1  In a large skillet, heat the oil and butter over medium heat until the butter is melted. 2  Serve immediately over hot cooked pasta and top with grated Parmesan cheese, if desired, or store in a covered container in the refrigerator until ready to reheat and serve.