Physicians specializing in anesthesiology must spend a substantial number of years completing education and training requirements, including 4 years of undergraduate school, 4 … years of medical school, and 3 to 8 years of residency. Education and training. Formal education and training requirements for physicians are among the most demanding of any occupation-4 years of undergraduate school, 4 years of medical school, and 3 to 8 years of internship and residency, depending on the specialty selected.
It typically takes about 12 years to become a neurologist. 4 years are spent as an undergraduate working toward a bachelor's degree, and then another 4 years are spent in medical school. After medical school, graduates will then undertake a one year internship, followed by a 3 year residency program. 
Earning a bachelor's degree is the first step toward becoming a neurologist. There is no specific major required for undergraduate study; however, aspiring neurologists may benefit from concentrating their studies in biological sciences, chemistry, physics or pre-med to meet admission requirements for medical school. Learn how to become a neurologist. Research the education requirements, training and licensure information, and experience required for starting a career in neurology. View 10 Popular Schools ».
3. Complete a residency in neurology. During medical school you learn much of the science needed to become a neurologist, but after medical school is where most neurologists receive the majority of their hands-on training in the field. These residencies typically last about three years. 
A neurologist is a physician who specializes in the human nervous system. Neurologists treat a variety of problems, including spinal cord injuries and diseases such as epilepsy. If you want to become a neurologist, be prepared to complete an extensive education. Fellowship — One to Eight Years. A fellowship is not mandatory to become a neurologist, but fellowships offer additional training in a neurology sub-specialty and the opportunity to work with research teams. Most fellowships last between one and two years, but some can last for as many as eight years
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A neurologist is a physician specialty. You need a 4 year degree (can be anything but bio or chem will help you more in medical school). Then, you take the MCAT, apply to medical school, and hopefully get in. A neurologist is a doctor, so they have to go through 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school, and 4 years as a resident. Princess · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
Attending medical school is the first step of specialized medical training to become a neurologist. On average, medical school takes four years to complete, with the first two focusing on coursework and the last two spanning rotations through medical specialties. An undergraduate degree, especially one with a scientific focus, will prepare a potential neurologist for admission medical school. A pre-med undergraduate will spend about four years at university, depending on the requirements of the individual school and the student's course load.
Step 2: Complete a Medical School Program. Aspiring neurologists are required to earn a Doctor of Medicine degree by attending medical school. Most medical school programs last four years, with the first two years typically covering the basics of human anatomy and physiology. Courses may also delve into nutrition, immunology and ethics. Learn how to become a neurologist. Research the education requirements, training and licensure information, and experience required for starting a career in neurology. View 10 Popular Schools ».