And even that is not going to be easy... Gene Therapy – Attempts to Cure Genetic Disease. The only real option right now to fix genetic diseases is to use gene therapy. In gene therapy, the good version of a gene is introduced into a patient's DNA. The hope is that this healthy copy of the gene will overcome the problems of the disease version. Note that we aren't fixing the gene. But sadly, I can't. Genetic diseases, such as Cystic Fibrosis and Huntington's disease, are caused by small differences in the DNA that we get from each of our parents. These differences affect how we use a particular gene, and that leads to disease. So we can't really get rid of a gene to cure a disease.
For example, a genetic disorder associated with a heart defect might be treated with surgery to repair the defect or with a heart transplant. Conditions that are characterized by defective blood cell formation, such as sickle cell disease, can sometimes be treated with a bone marrow transplant. Bone marrow transplantation can allow the formation of normal blood cells and, if done early in life, may help prevent episodes of pain and other future complications. 
Gene Therapy for Diseases. Gene Therapy has made important medical advances in less than two decades. Within this short time span, it has moved from the conceptual stage to technology development and laboratory research to clinical translational trials for a variety of deadly diseases. Among the most notable advancements are the following: Phase I clinical trials for these neurodegenerative disorders have been, or will soon be, launched. Other acquired diseases The same gene therapeutic techniques have been applied to treat other acquired disorders such as viral infections (e.g. influenza, HIV, hepatitis), heart disease and diabetes, among others.
Gene therapy is hoped to cure or improve treatment of genetic disorders by replacing the mutated or malfunctioned gene, manipulating or turning off the gene causing the disease or stimulate other bodily functions to fight the disease. 
Gene therapy is using genes as medicine. It is an experimental approach to treating genetic disease where the faulty gene is fixed, replaced or supplemented with a healthy gene so that it can function normally. Most genetic diseases cannot be treated, but gene therapy research gives some hope to patients and their families as a possible cure. 
Gene Therapy was initially meant to introduce genes straight into human cells, focusing on diseases caused by single-gene defects, such as cystic fibrosis, hemophilia, muscular dystrophy (see video 2) and sickle cell anemia (see also Wiley database on indications addressed by gene therapy clinical trials). Infectious diseases, such as HIV. Among the most notable advancements in gene therapy are the following. See also Major developments in gene therapy, Gene Therapy: Medicine of the 21st Century and Individualized Drugs & Gene Therapy (video 6) .
Neurodegenerative Diseases Recent progress in gene therapy has allowed for novel treatments of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's Disease and Huntington's Disease, for which exciting treatment results have been obtained in appropriate animal models of the corresponding human diseases. Phase I clinical trials for these neurodegenerative disorders have been, or will soon be, launched. Other acquired diseases The same gene therapeutic techniques have been applied to treat other acquired disorders such as viral infections (e.g. influenza, HIV, hepatitis), heart disease and diabetes, among others.
The first somatic treatment that produced permanent genetic change was performed in 1993. Gene therapy could be a way to fix a genetic problem at its source. The polymers are either expressed as proteins, interfere with protein expression, or possibly correct genetic mutations. Gene therapy is the therapeutic delivery of nucleic acid polymers into a patient's cells as a drug to treat disease. Until September 1990, it had never been successfully done, and it is still an experimental and emerging medical technology.
Overall, the experience with gene therapy in primary immunodeficiency diseases has demonstrated that it is possible to cure the disease by inserting a normal copy of the gene into the patient’s HSC. However, there are some risks that need to be overcome and safer vectors need to be developed. 
Concept of Gene Therapy. 1) Somatic gene therapy entails the transfer of a gene or genes into body cells other than germ (egg or sperm) cells with effect only on the patient. The new genetic material cannot be passed on to offspring. Examples of Somatic gene therapy have already proven to be clinically effective. The first successful treatments of adenosine deaminase deficiency took place in 1990 in 1991 with two patients aged 4 and 11. Both are thriving with continuing treatment. 