Farmers reported that a variety of wildlife species were responsible for the crop damage they experienced during the past two years. The majority of crop damage was attributed to these species: white-tailed deer (damage reported by 94% of farmers). rabbits (10%). The evidence farmers used to determine which species were responsible for damage included: visual observations of the animals in or near crop fields (80%), observations of tracks or scat (56%), observation of damage to plants (43%), and digging or rooting in crop fields (25%).
Section E: Damage 1.ou have monetary estimates for damage to private property? Do y Alabama – There are no accurate monetary estimates for damage to private property by feral hogs in Alabama to my knowledge. Arkansas – No. Florida – Estimated row crop losses in northern Florida of $1,824,675. Georgia – $57 million. 
Wildlife provides a variety of benefits for private landowners. Many landowners are willing to spend time and money to enhance habitat for wildlife on their property, with deer often the primary focus of these efforts. Because deer are valued economically and recreationally by many hunters, some private landowners are tolerant of a certain degree of damage from this species. rabbits (10%). The evidence farmers used to determine which species were responsible for damage included: visual observations of the animals in or near crop fields (80%), observations of tracks or scat (56%), observation of damage to plants (43%), and digging or rooting in crop fields (25%).
Damage to archeological sites resulted in a $48,000 restoration cost. Estimates of all direct, rehabilitation, indirect, and additional costs for the Canyon Ferry fire complex exceeded $18 million. Suppression costs accounted for approximately 53 percent of the total. Rehabilitation costs were generated from immediate post-fire expenditures, and then projected out over three years for a total cost of $139 million. Indirect costs, including loss of sales tax revenue and job losses in the tribal community amounted to $8.1 million.
The survey contained 15 questions regarding the types of crops damaged by wildlife during 2009 and 2010, the severity of crop depredation, the species responsible for this damage, and the actions producers took to prevent this crop damage. rabbits (10%). The evidence farmers used to determine which species were responsible for damage included: visual observations of the animals in or near crop fields (80%), observations of tracks or scat (56%), observation of damage to plants (43%), and digging or rooting in crop fields (25%).
In 2007 it cost $1,559,932 to care for Gainesville’s public urban forests or approximately $10.57 per public tree (assuming approximately 3 million trees larger than 1 inch in diameter). National estimates for tree costs range from $12.87 to $65 per tree (McPherson et al. 
Social trends, such as increased urbanization, increased populations of certain wildlife species, and finite government resources have combined to provide the opportunity for more involvement from the private sector in the prevention and control of wildlife damage and nuisance situations. As development occurs:1. Less land is available to wildlife. Natural habitat, like older woodlots with hollow trees, may not be readily available for wild animals. The lack of traditional den sites may cause wild animals to use chimneys and attics as alternate shelter or den sites (this is common for species such as squirrels and raccoons).
In addition to suppression costs, other direct costs include private property losses (insured and uninsured), damage to utility lines, damage to recreation facilities, loss of timber resources, and aid to evacuated residents. Most of these costs are incurred during or immediately following the fire. The suppression costs accounted for only 7.9% of the total wildfire costs while nearly 39% of the cost was attributed to other direct costs such as private property losses (insured and uninsured), damage to utility lines, damage to recreation facilities, loss of timber resources, and aid to evacuated residents.