Potassium is pronounced as poh-TASS-ee-em. History and Uses: Although potassium is the eighth most abundant element on earth and comprises about 2.1% of the earth's crust, it is a very reactive element and is never found free in nature. Metallic potassium was first isolated by Sir Humphry Davy in 1807 through the electrolysis of molten caustic potash (KOH). 
Potassium. The name is derived from the english word potash. The chemical symbol K comes from kalium, the Mediaeval Latin for potash, which may have derived from the arabic word qali, meaning alkali. Potassium is a soft, silvery-white metal, member of the alkali group of the periodic chart. The chemistry of potassium is almost etirely that of the potassium ion, K + . Applications. Most potassium (95 %) goes into fertilizers and the rest goes mainly into making potassium hydroxide (KOH), by the electrolysis of potassium chloride solution, and then converting this to potassium carbonate (K 2 CO 3).
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (derived from Neo-Latin, kalium) and atomic number 19. It was first isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, from which its name is derived. Potassium is the eighth or ninth most common element by mass (0.2%) in the human body, so that a 60 kg adult contains a total of about 120 g of potassium. The body has about as much potassium as sulfur and chlorine, and only calcium and phosphorus are more abundant.
potassium (pətăsˈēəm) [ key ], a metallic chemical element; symbol K [Lat. kalium = alkali]; at. no. 19; at. wt. 39.0983; m.p. 63.25°C; b.p. 760°C; sp. gr. .862 at 20°C; valence +1. Potassium is a soft, silver-white metal. Physically and chemically it resembles the other alkali metals in Group 1 of the periodic table. It is extremely reactive, more so than sodium.
1 The Potassium Atom Potassium is a chemical element with the atomic number 19. 2  It is the seventh most abundant metal on Earth and makes up almost two percent of the Earth's crust. 3  In its pure fo…. 1 Everyone knows that without…. 2  The Potassium Atom Potassium is a chemical element with the atomic number 19. 3
Split and merge into it. Answer by McRitchie11. Confidence votes 86. Potassium wouldn't have a chemical formula as its not a compound, its an element by itself, represented by the symbol K. A chemical formula with potassium in it would be something like potassium iodide (KI) or potassium oxide (K20). The chemical symbols of gold, copper, potassium, silver, platinum,  and Iron are Au, Cu, K, Ag, Pt, and Fe respectively.
Potassium wouldn't have a chemical formula as its not a compound, its an element by itself, represented by the symbol K. A chemical formula with potassium in it would be somet … hing like potassium iodide (KI) or potassium oxide (K20). 3 people found this useful. 1 Everyone knows that without…. 2  The Potassium Atom Potassium is a chemical element with the atomic number 19. 3  It is the seventh most abundant metal on Earth and makes up almost two percent of the Earth's crust.
In the Periodic table, potassium is one of seven elements in column (group) 1 (alkali metals): they all have a single valence electron in their outer electron shell, which they readily give up to create an atom with a positive charge-a cation, and combine with anions to form salts. Potassium is the eighth or ninth most common element by mass (0.2%) in the human body, so that a 60 kg adult contains a total of about 120 g of potassium. The body has about as much potassium as sulfur and chlorine, and only calcium and phosphorus are more abundant.
Potassium permanganate has the chemical formula KMnO4, where the 4 is a subscript below oxygen. It is a common oxidizing agent often used in titrations due to its color and redox potential. When reduced by another chemical, it loses its distinctive pink-purple color and becomes colorless. Chemical Components of the Formula. Given the formula for potassium permanganate, KMnO4, its constituent elements are potassium (K), manganese (Mn), and oxygen (O). The formula indicates that there is 1 mole K, 1 mole Mn, and 4 moles O per mole of KMnO4.