We warm the formula because we think the baby likes it but if you teach you baby to take it a room temperature you will never be in a position of refusal if it is not warmed. Has nothing to do with digestion as someone desired. In newborn nurseries the formula is not warmed and newborns do fine. If you have to warm it for piece of mind then do it under warm running tap water and never warm it in the microwave due to the potential of un eveness and burns.
Best Answer: You don't have to warm formula. If it is room temperature water mixed with power then that is fine. If it is a ready to feed can that is at room temperature that is fine as well. The only time that the chill should be take out is if it come from the fridge. In newborn nurseries the formula is not warmed and newborns do fine. If you have to warm it for piece of mind then do it under warm running tap water and never warm it in the microwave due to the potential of un eveness and burns.
Whether or not you warm your baby’s formula is entirely up to you and your baby’s liking. Your baby may show a preference for cold, room temperature, or heated milk. If you plan on transitioning from breast milk to formula, serving the formula at a temperature similar to fresh breast milk can make the transition easier. Boiling the water used to make your baby’s formula has long been an important part of the bottle preparation process. Boiling tap or well water can help to remove any impurities or harmful bacteria that can be in the water; this distillation is why boiling the water has been recommended.
6. It's fine to give your baby room temperature or even cold formula. If your baby prefers warm formula: 1  Place a filled bottle in a bowl or pan of hot, but not boiling, water and let it stand for a few minutes — or warm the bottle under running water. 2  Shake the bottle after warming it. Warm the formula, if needed. It's fine to give your baby room temperature or even cold formula. If your baby prefers warm formula: 1  Place a filled bottle in a bowl or pan of hot, but not boiling, water and let it stand for a few minutes — or warm the bottle under running water. 2  Shake the bottle after warming it.
Lane France. pediatrician. No. There's no medical reason to warm up formula. Your baby may prefer it warm, at room temperature, or even chilled, and all of those options are just fine. How to mix and store formula Watch a pediatrician demonstrate how to make baby formula and store it safely. What about the iron t... How much formula your baby needs. Learn how much formula to feed your baby based on age, weight, signs of hunger, and other clues, and what to do if you’re...
It is okay for the formula to be cool or room temperature. If your baby seems to prefer warm formula, you can put the filled bottle in a container of warm water and let it stand for a few minutes. Check the temperature of the formula on your skin before feeding it to your baby, to be sure it isn't too hot. 
How to Warm My Baby’s Bottle. If your baby prefers a warm bottle, there are a few methods to heat your baby’s formula in a safe manner: 1  Run your baby’s bottle under a hot tap for several minutes. 2  Heat a small pot of water on the stove and place your baby’s bottle in it for a few minutes. 3  Use an electronic bottle warmer. Boiling the water used to make your baby’s formula has long been an important part of the bottle preparation process. Boiling tap or well water can help to remove any impurities or harmful bacteria that can be in the water; this distillation is why boiling the water has been recommended.
Warming. Baby formula shouldn't be warmed in an open pan or made with warm water. Instead, the Ohio State University Medical Center suggests the safest option is heating the formula when in the baby's bottle. Place the bottle in a pot of warm water or run it directly under a hot tap as soon as it's mixed and ready. Baby formula does not need to be warmed, according to experts from North Dakota State University. Nonetheless, your baby may prefer the taste and temperature of warmed formula. Newborns may reject cold milk or show signs of stomach upset after feeding on cold formula