Feed your rabbit an amount of rabbit pellets appropriate for its weight, along with free-fed grass hays (timothy, orchard, oat). Fresh, raw, organic (pesticide-free) vegetables can also make up part of the rabbit's rations, if you like. Go really easy on fruits as treats. Rabbits like to chew a lot. 1 If you choose to feed people-food, you can increase your rabbit’s intake of veggies at adulthood-up to a cup a day. 2  If so, you can cut the pellet ration by 1/3 to 1/2, always aiming to maintain the rabbit's weight at the ideal and ensure optimal nutrition and immune system health.
Rice. Silverbeet. Nuts. Make sure your rabbit eats plenty of hay and greens a day a rabbit 3 kilos and over should have 1 cup of greens a day and for rabbits 3 kilos and under should have half a cup a day no more or it can be hazardous. 
No, rabbits can't eat cat food. Rabbits will eat cat food but that doesn't mean it's okay: rabbits will nibble on many dangerous things including electric wires. Cat food is … full of good things for cats, like protein and animal fats, but it does not have the necessary nutrition for a rabbit to be healthy. Rabbits can eat some human foods: dry bread, cheerios, fruits and veggies in limit … ed amounts can be fed to your rabbit as treats. A rabbit needs a well rounded diet that includes hay, grains, fruit and veggies. A good rabbit pellet, water and salt will do well.
Apart from fruits and veggies, rabbits CAN NOT eat human food. Espesially things like chips. Rabbits can eat some human foods: dry bread, cheerios, fruits and veggies in limit … ed amounts can be fed to your rabbit as treats. A rabbit needs a well rounded diet that includes hay, grains, fruit and veggies. A good rabbit pellet, water and salt will do well.
Wild rabbits Wild rabbits spend much of their time foraging in meadows and fields eating wild grasses, herbs, flowers, leaves, and twigs. They also consume some fruits, vegetables, and grains as they come across them, but these do not make up a large part of their diet. They get much of the water they need from the fresh leaves and grasses they eat. Rabbits mostly eat lettuce, carrots and vegetables. Rabbits eat grass because they don't have sharp teeth. Pet rabbits Pet bunnies require a special diet high in fibre, moderate in proteins, low in fats, calcium, and sugar, and with the right mix of vitamins and nutrient
Rabbits also need water, it keeps them going, and if they don't have any food or water they are most likely to die. Rabbits should not eat any dairy, meat products or bi-products, grains, nuts, seeds, or processed human foods (cereals, crackers, cookies, etc). Avoid giving your rabbit any plants that have fertilizers on them, pesticides, or parasites left by other animals. They also consume some fruits, vegetables, and grains as they come across them, but these do not make up a large part of their diet. They get much of the water they need from the fresh leaves and grasses they eat. Rabbits mostly eat lettuce, carrots and vegetables. Rabbits eat grass because they don't have sharp teeth.
What Do Bunnies Eat. In order to raise your bunnies properly, you’ve to make sure that they get the best food. As a general rule, 1 cup fresh green vegetables (in 24 hours) are offered to the 4 lbs bunny. Choose different types of greens including mustard greens, leafy lettuce, parsley, and chard. (1) Apple, Blueberries, Melon, Orange (be sure to remove the peel as it can harbor pesticides), Papaya, Peach, Pear, Pineapple, Plums (1). Vegetables | What Do Rabbits Eat. Vegetables, especially those containing high quantity of fiber are good for your bunnies health.
Rabbits need to eat a rabbit diet, which includes lots of hay, fresh greens, and rabbit pellets. Treats for rabbits includes fresh fruits and veg. Never feed cat food to your rabbit, not even as a treat. Rabbits can eat some human foods: dry bread, cheerios, fruits and veggies in limit … ed amounts can be fed to your rabbit as treats. A rabbit needs a well rounded diet that includes hay, grains, fruit and veggies. A good rabbit pellet, water and salt will do well.
Rabbits will also eat bark on trees, tender twigs and sprouts, fruits, seeds and other nutritious foods in much small amounts. This is important to know when we decide what is a healthy diet for our house rabbits. Avoid foods in the onion family such as leeks, chives and onions because eating these foods could cause blood abnormalities. A good amount of “other” vegetables (non leafy greens) to feed your rabbit would be about 1 tablespoon per 2 lbs of body weight per day in one meal or divided into two or more.