1 Jutland, Denmark Jutland, Denmark's peninsula is where Scandinavia meets mainland Europe. 2  This area is divided into the regions North, South, East, and West Jutland. Two states are represented on the Jutland Peninsula; Denmark and Germany-out of those Denmark is the clearly smallest country/nation, but Denmark hold the majority of Jutlan … d's surface area. 6 people found this useful.
Popular in Jutland. Aarhus, is the main city on the Jutland peninsula in Denmark. With a population of just over 300,000 people it also holds the titles of Denmark's second largest city and the city with the youngest population. Loading photos…. Jutland is a large peninsular stretching northwards towards Scandinavia. It's the only part of Denmark connected to the European continent, and hence sometimes known as mainland Denmark, although the capital is on the island of Zealand.
Jutland is a peninsula surrounded by the North Sea to the west, the Skagerrak to the north, the Kattegat and Baltic Sea to the east, and Germany to the south. Contemporary Danish Jutland is divided into three administrative regions: North Denmark Region, Central Denmark Region, and Region of Southern Denmark. These three regions have a total area of 29,775 km 2 (11,496 sq mi) and a population of 2,528,129 (2008). Population density is 84 per km 2 (218 per sq.mi.).
Andorra, Portugal and Spain are on the Iberian Peninsula. Denmark is on the Jutland Peninsula; Italy, San Marino and Vatican City are on the Italian Peninsula. Albania, Bosnia … , Bulgaria, Greece, Kosovo, Macedonia and Montenegro are on the Balkan Peninsula. Turkey is on the Anatolian Peninsula. North and South Korea share the Korean Peninsula. Two states are represented on the Jutland Peninsula; Denmark and Germany-out of those Denmark is the clearly smallest country/nation, but Denmark hold the majority of Jutlan … d's surface area.
Denmark travelers should definitely know where the Jutland peninsula in Denmark is, before they travel to their Danish destination. Let's find out what and where Jutland is... Answer: Jutland is part of Denmark. On the map, it is the large western part of Denmark-the peninsula that borders on Germany in the south. (The island on the right is Zealand .). Jutland is a large peninsula separating the North Sea from the Baltic Sea. 
Most of Denmark is on the Jutland Peninsula, as is a part of northern Germany. Two states are represented on the Jutland Peninsula; Denmark and Germany-out of those Denmark is the clearly smallest country/nation, but Denmark hold the majority of Jutlan … d's surface area. 6 people found this useful.
The coastline is indented by many fjords, with LimFjord (in the north) the largest. In addition to the Jutland Peninsula, the country includes over 440 named islands; Zealand is the largest, followed by Funen, Lolland, Falster and Bornholm, an island located in the Baltic Sea to the east of Zealand. For the most part Denmark consists of flat lands with very little elevation, except for the hilly central area on the Jutland Peninsula. Its average height above sea level is only 31 meters (101 feet) and the highest natural point is Mollehoj, at 170.86 meters (560.6 ft).