PauuletHohn/iStock/Getty Images. Potassium is an essential element for plant growth. It is commonly applied to gardens, lawns and orchards as part of a regular fertilizer program. Garden potassium, usually in the form of potash, helps plants use water and resist drought as it regulates overall plant growth and health. Potassium is especially important to edible crops and enhances the size and quality of fruits and vegetables. When plants do not have enough potassium, they have symptoms such as stunted growth, poor flower development and lower quality fruit or vegetable harvests. Plant leaves may look scorched and curl at the tips.
Uses of potassium nitrate. Potassium nitrate is used in agriculture, industry, solar energy plants, food and pharma. Agriculture. In agriculture, potassium nitrate is used as a water-soluble and virtually chloride-free source of nitrate-nitrogen and potassium nutrients. Due to the product‘s specific characteristics and benefits, target markets are related to high-value crops such as vegetables, fruits and flowers. 
Well, let's take a look. Nitrogen is used by plants for lots of leaf growth and good green color. Phosphorous is used by plants to help form new roots, make seeds, fruit and flowers. It's also used by plants to help fight disease. Potassium helps plants make strong stems and keep growing fast. It's also used to help fight disease. Fertilizer is one of the many garden tools that is used in making good gardens great gardens
Both people and plants need potassium. In plants it is essential for water uptake and for synthesizing plant sugars for use as food. It also is responsible for crop formulation and quality. Commercial bloom foods contain high amounts of potassium to promote more flowers of better quality. Potash in soil is the initial source for the uptake in plants.
Potassium is considered second only to nitrogen, when it comes to nutrients needed by plants, and is commonly considered as the “quality nutrient.”. It affects the plant shape, size, color, taste and other measurements attributed to healthy produce. Plants absorb potassium in its ionic form, K+. 1 Protein and starch synthesis in plants require potassium as well. 2  Potassium is essential at almost every step of the protein synthesis. 3  In starch synthesis, the enzyme responsible for the process is activated by potassium.
Many foods are high in potassium, including avocados, bananas, oranges, potatoes, fruit juice, tomatoes, beans, green leafy vegetables, fish, squash, oats, clams, oysters, pumpkins, dates, raisins, figs, berries, apricots, almonds, walnuts, peanuts, apples, flax seed and yogurt. Potassium is needed in the body for the brain and nerves to function. It's used to maintain the body's fluid balance, send nerve impulses, keep cells alive, and contract muscles. Potassium can lower blood pressure, reducing the risk of heart disease.
Unavailable Potassium: Depending on soil type, approximately 90-98% of total soil K is found in this form. Feldspars and micas are minerals that contain most of the K. Plants cannot use the K in this crystalline-insoluble form. Over long periods of time, these minerals weather (break down) and K is released. Readily Available Potassium: Potassium that is dissolved in soil water (water soluble) plus that held on the exchange sites on clay particles (exchangeable K) is considered readily available for plant growth. The exchange sites are found on the surface of clay particles.
1 In Photosynthesis, potassium regulates the opening and closing of stomata, and therefore regulates CO2 uptake. 2  Potassium triggers activation of enzymes and is essential for production of Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP). 3  ATP is an important energy source for many chemical processes taking place in plant issues. 1 Protein and starch synthesis in plants require potassium as well. 2  Potassium is essential at almost every step of the protein synthesis. 3  In starch synthesis, the enzyme responsible for the process is activated by potassium.
1 Potassium triggers activation of enzymes and is essential for production of Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP). 2  ATP is an important energy source for many chemical processes taking place in plant issues. 3  Potassium plays a major role in the regulation of water in plants (osmo-regulation). 1 Protein and starch synthesis in plants require potassium as well. 2  Potassium is essential at almost every step of the protein synthesis. 3  In starch synthesis, the enzyme responsible for the process is activated by potassium.