Physician assistants (PAs) work closely with doctors and handle duties that range from taking medical histories to setting simple fractures. They are allowed to prescribe medications in some states. Many PAs specialize in a particular area of medicine, such as pediatrics. In some cases, a physician assistant will refer the patient to a medical doctor or make arrangements for transferring the patient to a hospital or clinic.
What Physician Assistants Do. Physician assistants, also known as PAs, practice medicine on a team under the supervision of physicians and surgeons. They are formally educated to examine patients, diagnose injuries and illnesses, and provide treatment. As more physicians retire or enter specialty areas of medicine, more physician assistants are expected to take on the role of primary care provider. Furthermore, the number of individuals who have access to primary care services will increase as a result of federal health insurance reform.
Read More... A physician assistant (PA) is a licensed medical professional and caregiver. who typically works in a clinic, doctor's office, or hospital. The PA can perform many of the routine work that doctors might otherwise perform, thus allowing the physician to spend more time with non-routine cases and patients. A Physician Assistant (PA) earns an average salary of $86,619 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. A skill in Emergency Medicine is associated with high pay for this job.
Physician assistants provide diagnostic, therapeutic, and preventive healthcare services, as delegated by a physician. Physician assistants, also known as PAs, practice medicine on a team under the supervision of physicians and surgeons. As more physicians retire or enter specialty areas of medicine, more physician assistants are expected to take on the role of primary care provider. Furthermore, the number of individuals who have access to primary care services will increase as a result of federal health insurance reform.
A physician assistant (PA) practices medicine under the direction of a physician. As members of healthcare teams, PAs: 1  take medical histories, 2  examine and treat patients, 3  make diagnoses, 4  prescribe medications, 5  assist in surgery, 6  counsel patients and. 
Physician assistants work in all areas of medicine, including primary care and family medicine, emergency medicine, and psychiatry. The work of physician assistants depends in large part on their specialty and what their supervising physician needs them to do. For example, a physician assistant working in surgery may close incisions and provide care before and after the operation. As more physicians retire or enter specialty areas of medicine, more physician assistants are expected to take on the role of primary care provider. Furthermore, the number of individuals who have access to primary care services will increase as a result of federal health insurance reform.
What Physician Assistants Do. Physician assistants, also known as PAs, practice medicine on a team under the supervision of physicians and surgeons. They are formally educated to examine patients, diagnose injuries and illnesses, and provide treatment. The work of physician assistants depends in large part on their specialty and what their supervising physician needs them to do. For example, a physician assistant working in surgery may close incisions and provide care before and after the operation.
Physician assistants work under the supervision of a physician or surgeon; however, their specific duties and the extent to which they must be supervised differ from state to state. Physician assistants work in all areas of medicine, including primary care and family medicine, emergency medicine, and psychiatry. The work of physician assistants depends in large part on their specialty and what their supervising physician needs them to do. For example, a physician assistant working in surgery may close incisions and provide care before and after the operation.
Not to be confused with medical assistant. A physician assistant (US) or physician associate (UK) is a healthcare professional who is licensed to practice medicine as part of a team with physicians and other providers. 