Getting adequate nutrition can be a challenge as you get older. With age, the number of calories you need begins to decline. Every calorie you consume must be packed with nutrition in order to hit the mark. Even then, you may fall short. Older people whose diets don’t include a lot of fruits and vegetables or fortified breakfast cereals may be falling short. How to hit the mark: Now that breakfast cereals are fortified with folate, deficiencies are less common.
Proper elderly nutrition includes eating carbohydrates, protein, fluids and healthy fats. All of these are types of nutrients, or substances that provide the nourishment needed for living. Healthy eating-and proper elderly nutrition-is having a balanced diet where a person eats a variety of foods. Elderly often require less calories as their bodies age, usually related to doing less physical activity, but the need for essential nutrients does not change. Now it is shown that fats are an essential part of the diet and elderly nutrition-but the TYPE of fat is very important to consider. Healthy fats supply your body with energy and give a protective coating to your cells.
Getting older doesn't change the vitamins and other nutrients needed for health. An 80 year old needs the same nutrients as an 18 year old. The difference is in how much of those nutrients you need. 
Elderly may even need more of some nutrients such as vitamin D, vitamin B6, folate and calcium. Because of this, proper elderly nutrition becomes more important to get all the nutrients needed without extra calories and weight gain. Now it is shown that fats are an essential part of the diet and elderly nutrition-but the TYPE of fat is very important to consider. Healthy fats supply your body with energy and give a protective coating to your cells.
Vitamins are nutrients that your body needs in small amounts to stay healthy. The amount you need depends on the vitamin. Because your body can only make limited amounts of vitamins for itself, the rest must come from a nutritious diet. Minerals are other nutrients that your body needs to function properly. Examples of minerals include iron, calcium and zinc. Using Vitamins and Minerals. Before starting any vitamin or mineral supplements, you should talk to your doctor to determine if it is appropriate.
It is therefore important that older people choose a nutrient-dense diet, including foods which contain protein, vitamins and minerals such as milk and dairy products, meat, eggs, fish, bread, cereals, and fruit and vegetables. Although requirements for calcium do not change as we become more elderly, it is still important that calcium requirements are met through the diet. Milk and dairy products are the main providers of dietary calcium in UK diets and consuming them can help us meet our calcium requirements.
Vitamins don't supply us with energy. We need protein, carbohydrates, and fats for that. What vitamins do is to help the carbohydrates, fats, and proteins release energy. These vital compounds are very important and they are required for all sorts of complex chemical reactions in our bodies. As most people get older, they tend to eat less due to a loss of appetite. As a result, many elderly individuals do not take in adequate amounts of vitamins and other nutrients as they did when they were younger.
1 Include a variety of high-fiber foods every day, such as raw fruits and vegetables and whole grains. 2  These foods help cut down on constipation; provide the vitamins, minerals, fiber, and nutrients that you need for healthy aging; help maintain your weight; and reduce your risk of heart problems. 
As we get older, the body becomes less efficient at absorbing some key nutrients , says Katherine Tucker, RD, PhD, chair of the department of health sciences at Northeastern University in Boston. In addition, the ability to taste food declines, blunting appetite. Older people whose diets don’t include a lot of fruits and vegetables or fortified breakfast cereals may be falling short. How to hit the mark: Now that breakfast cereals are fortified with folate, deficiencies are less common.
Your doctor might suggest that, like some older adults, you need extra of a few vitamins, as well as the mineral calcium. It is usually better to get the nutrients you need from food, rather than a pill. That’s because nutrient-dense foods contain other things that are good for you like fiber. Dietary Supplements. Dietary supplements are substances you might use to add nutrients to your diet or to lower your risk of health problems. They might contain vitamins, minerals, fiber, amino acids, herbs or other plants, or enzymes.