Expand. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is a law that charges the Department of Health and Human Services to establish regulations for the handling of protected health information (PHI). Security and privacy have become increasingly important in our electronic age of healthcare. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contains regulations for maintaining the security of EPHI through the use of administrative, physical and technical security measures.
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is Federal legislation that created national standards to protect the privacy of patients’ medical records and other personal health information. Security and privacy have become increasingly important in our electronic age of healthcare. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contains regulations for maintaining the security of EPHI through the use of administrative, physical and technical security measures.
HIPAA compliance is the state of being in alignment with guidelines set by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, including data privacy and security provisions designed to safeguard medical information. 
HIPAA stands for Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.. Bill Clinton signed the bill into law on August 21, 1996. It is said to be the most significant act of Federal legislation to affect the health care industry since Medicare and Medicaid were rolled out in 1965. The HIPAA law also addresses the exchange of health information between health care providers, pharmacies, health insurance companies, employers, and patients. With the advent of technology and ease of information transfer, it's really easy to breach a patient's privacy---whether intentionally or otherwise.
Function. The HIPAA law is a combination of regulations aimed at reducing waste, fraud and abuse in the health care industry. It is intended to simplify the industry as a whole. HIPAA ensures continued insurance coverage for American workers and their families as they change jobs. The HIPAA law also addresses the exchange of health information between health care providers, pharmacies, health insurance companies, employers, and patients. With the advent of technology and ease of information transfer, it's really easy to breach a patient's privacy---whether intentionally or otherwise.
Features. The HIPAA law also addresses the exchange of health information between health care providers, pharmacies, health insurance companies, employers, and patients. With the advent of technology and ease of information transfer, it's really easy to breach a patient's privacy---whether intentionally or otherwise.
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 is set of statutes designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the US health care system: For more about HIPAA and the HITECH Act, see these US Health and Human Services pages: 1  HIPAA Administrative Simplification Statute and Rules. 2  Summary of the HIPAA Privacy Rule. 3  Summary of the HIPAA Security Rule. 4  HITECH Act Enforcement Interim Final Rule.
Welcome to HIPAA 101. HIPAA, which stands for the American Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, is a set of rules to be followed by doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. 
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA; Pub.L. 104–191, 110 Stat. 1936, enacted August 21, 1996) was enacted by the United States Congress and signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996. These rules apply to covered entities as defined by HIPAA and the HHS. Covered entities include health plans, health care clearinghouses, such as billing services and community health information systems, and health care providers that transmit health care data in a way that is regulated by HIPAA.
HIPAA: Acronym that stands for the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, a US law designed to provide privacy standards to protect patients' medical records and other health information provided to health plans, doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. 