A habitat is not necessarily a geographic area—for a parasitic organism it is the body of its host, part of the host's body such as the digestive tract, or a cell within the host's body. The monotypic habitat occurs in botanical and zoological contexts, and is a component of conservation biology. In restoration ecology of native plant communities or habitats, some invasive species create monotypic stands that replace and/or prevent other species, especially indigenous ones, from growing there.
Full Definition of HABITAT. 1. a: the place or environment where a plant or animal naturally or normally lives and grows b: the typical place of residence of a person or a group c: a housing for a controlled physical environment in which people can live under surrounding inhospitable conditions (as under the sea). 2
Habitat for Humanity is a Christian non-profit organization dedicated to helping poor families build homes of their own. It was founded by Millard and Linda Fuller in 1976, and has already built around 400,000 homes all over the world. Each Habitat for Humanity affiliate is a non-profit organization itself. They are based in a particular community and coordinate its activities with the international organization. These activities may include finding the right location for building homes, fund-raising efforts, and/or servicing of mortgage payments.
habitat. n. 1. (Biology) the environment in which an animal or plant normally lives or grows. 2. (Sociology) the place in which a person, group, class, etc, is normally found. [C18: from Latin: it inhabits, from habitāre to dwell, from habēre to have]. hab•i•tat. 1. the natural environment of an organism; place that is natural for the life and growth of an organism: a jungle habitat. 2. the place where one is usu. found. 3. a special environment for living in over an extended period, as an underwater research vessel.
n. 1. a. The natural environment in which a species or group of species lives: good coyote habitat; managing wildlife habitat. b. A particular kind of natural environment: woodland and prairie habitats. c. An artificial environment created for an animal to live in: the lion habitat at the zoo. hab•i•tat. 1. the natural environment of an organism; place that is natural for the life and growth of an organism: a jungle habitat. 2. the place where one is usu. found. 3. a special environment for living in over an extended period, as an underwater research vessel.
The first step to understanding individual animals is to understand their environment. The environment in which an animal lives in is referred to as its habitat. A habitats is a place where living things live and how they survive in that area. Habitats are homes, and everyone needs one! Animals have basic needs for air, water, food, shelter, and space. 
A habitat is an ecological or environmental area that is inhabited by human, a particular species of animal, plant, or other type of organism. A place where a living thing lives is its habitat. It is a place where it can find food, shelter, protection and mates for reproduction. It is the natural environment in which an organism lives, or the physical environment that surrounds a species population. The monotypic habitat occurs in botanical and zoological contexts, and is a component of conservation biology. In restoration ecology of native plant communities or habitats, some invasive species create monotypic stands that replace and/or prevent other species, especially indigenous ones, from growing there.
1. a. The natural environment in which a species or group of species lives: good coyote habitat; managing wildlife habitat. b. A particular kind of natural environment: woodland and prairie habitats. c. An artificial environment created for an animal to live in: the lion habitat at the zoo. 2. 1. the natural environment of an organism; place that is natural for the life and growth of an organism: a jungle habitat. 2. the place where one is usu. found. 3. a special environment for living in over an extended period, as an underwater research vessel. 4. habitation (def. 1).