The Oldest Tree in the World: Old Tjikko (9,550 Years Old). The oldest individual clonal tree in the world is believed to be 9,550 years old (carbon-dated)! This Norway Spruce is located on the Fulufjaellet Fulufjället mountain Of dalarna province In sweden and was discovered by a professor Of Physical, Geography Leif. kullman The Tallest Tree in the World: Hyperion (115.6 meters/379' 4). Hyperion was discovered on August 25, 2006 by naturalists Chris Atkins and Michael Taylor in a very remote region of Redwood National and State Parks (California, USA) and is believed to be approximately 700-800 years old.
The next oldest tree on the list is a national monument in Iran: The Zoroastrian Sarv (Sarv-e-Abarkooh), estimated to be about 4,000 years old, or older. This Mediterranean cypress tree (Cupressus sempervirens), which is in Abarkuh, Yazd, Iran, may well be the oldest living thing in Asia. © LiveScience Photo. Until 2013, the oldest individual tree in the world was Methuselah, a 4,845-year-old Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva) in the White Mountains of California.
View full size image. Until 2013, the oldest individual tree in the world was Methuselah, a 4,845-year-old Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva) in the White Mountains of California. And on the other side of the world, in an Andes Mountains grove in Chile, we have a 3,642-year-old Patagonian cypress (Fitzroya cupressoides). The ancient specimen, which is sometimes called the Alerce (alerce is a common Spanish name for F. cupressoides), is the third-oldest tree to have its exact age calculated.
A clonal colony can survive for much longer than an individual tree. A colony of 47,000 quaking aspen trees (nicknamed  Pando ), covering 106 acres (43 ha) in the Fishlake National Forest of Utah, is considered one of the oldest and largest organisms in the world. Pando, an 80,000-year-old colony of quaking aspen, is the oldest known clonal tree, located in Utah, United States. This is a list of the oldest known trees, as reported in reliable sources. Definitions of what constitutes an individual tree vary
The tree has not yet been named. The next oldest tree on the list is a national monument in Iran: The Zoroastrian Sarv (Sarv-e-Abarkooh), estimated to be about 4,000 years old, or older. This Mediterranean cypress tree (Cupressus sempervirens), which is in Abarkuh, Yazd, Iran, may well be the oldest living thing in Asia. And on the other side of the world, in an Andes Mountains grove in Chile, we have a 3,642-year-old Patagonian cypress (Fitzroya cupressoides). The ancient specimen, which is sometimes called the Alerce (alerce is a common Spanish name for F. cupressoides), is the third-oldest tree to have its exact age calculated.