Tax preparation fees. You can deduct on Schedule C or C-EZ the cost of preparing that part of your tax return relating to your business as a sole proprietor or statutory employee. You can deduct the remaining cost on Schedule A (Form 1040) if you itemize your deductions. You can deduct contributions you make to the plan for your employees on line 19 of Schedule C. If you are a sole proprietor, you can deduct contributions you make to the plan for yourself on line 28 of Form 1040. You can also deduct trustees' fees if contributions to the plan do not cover them.
IRS Publication 529 - Miscellaneous Deductions covers all the things that can be legitmately claimed. It clearly states, You can usually deduct tax preparation fees on the return for the year in which you pay them. Thus, on your 2010 return, you can deduct fees paid in 2010 for preparing your 2009 return. 
Only your itemized deductions over $1,500 ($75,000 x 2%) are deductible. If your tax return preparation fee is your only miscellaneous itemized deduction, you get no tax deduction for the fees you pay. However, if your tax return preparer allocates 75% of the fee to your business, you can deduct $900 ($1,200 x 75%). This will save you about $345 in tax. Savings of self-employment tax: Amount of deduction $900. Total savings $345. Furthermore, if the Internal Revenue Service audits your tax return, and the main focus is your business, you can deduct your accountant’s fees. Also, if you receive any governmental notices concerning your business, you can deduct the fees you pay your accountant to resolve the matter.
Accounting and legal fees. You can deduct reasonable accounting fees you paid for help to prepare and file your income tax and benefit return. You can deduct legal fees you paid in the year to collect or establish a right to collect salary or wages. You can also deduct legal fees you paid in the year to collect or establish a right to collect other amounts that must be reported in employment income even if they are not directly paid by your employer.
Starting a Business. Legal and accounting fees that you pay to start a business are deductible only as business start-up expenses. You can deduct $5,000 of start-up expenses the first year you’re in business and any excess amounts over 180 months. The same holds true for incorporation fees or fees that you pay to form a partnership or LLC. Accounting Fees. You can deduct any accounting fees that you pay for your business as a deductible business expense —for example, fees you pay an accountant to set up or keep your business books, prepare your business tax return, or give you tax advice for your business.
A client may deduct financial planning and asset management fees only if they itemized deductions on Schedule A of IRS Form 1040. Moreover, these fees are deductible only to the extent that they, plus other miscellaneous fees and expenses, exceed 2% of the clients AGI. 
If you started your business in 2011, had startup costs of $50,000 or less, and incurred startup and/or organizational expenses after October 22, 2004, you can deduct up to $5,000 in business startup costs on your 2011 tax return. 
You can usually deduct tax preparation fees on the return for the year in which you pay them. Thus, on your 2014 return, you can deduct fees paid in 2014 for preparing your 2013 return. These fees include the cost of tax preparation software programs and tax publications. If you are a qualified performing artist, you can deduct your employee business expenses as an adjustment to income rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction. If you are an employee, complete Form 2106 or Form 2106-EZ. See Publication 463 for more information.
You can claim the amount of expenses that is more than 2% of your adjusted gross income. You figure your deduction on Schedule A by subtracting 2% of your adjusted gross income from the total amount of these expenses. Your adjusted gross income is the amount on Form 1040, line 38, or Form 1040NR, line 37. If you are a qualified performing artist, you can deduct your employee business expenses as an adjustment to income rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction. If you are an employee, complete Form 2106 or Form 2106-EZ. See Publication 463 for more information.