Perfectly cooked Pork Chops with Balsamic Roasted Vegetables and Gorgonzola. Whether you’re cooking boneless or bone-in pork chops, whether you’re grilling, sauteing, sautéing, roasting, broiling or-pan, frying the rule for pork chops is to cook them to an internal temperature of°. 145 
Today's pork can be safely enjoyed when cooked to an internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming. Use cooked pork within two hours (one hour if air temperature is above 90 °F) or refrigerate it at 40 °F or less in shallow, covered containers. Eat within 3 to 4 days, either cold or reheated to 165 °F (hot and steaming). It is safe to freeze ready prepared pork dishes. For best quality, use within 3 months.
The length of time stuffed pork chops cook in the oven will vary  slightly depending on their thickness. On average, the oven should  be set to a temperature of 350 degrees … Fahrenheit, and the chops  should cook for between 45 and 60 minutes. Temperatures should be taken at the thickest portion of the food. Meat should be firm, not mushy; juices should be clear, not pink. This requirement does not apply to cured foods such as bacon or ham, or USDA-inspected fully cooked products such as lunch meats containing pork or summer sausages.
Cook all raw pork steaks, chops, and roasts to a minimum internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming. Use cooked pork within two hours (one hour if air temperature is above 90 °F) or refrigerate it at 40 °F or less in shallow, covered containers. Eat within 3 to 4 days, either cold or reheated to 165 °F (hot and steaming). It is safe to freeze ready prepared pork dishes. For best quality, use within 3 months.
The length of time stuffed pork chops cook in the oven will vary  slightly depending on their thickness. On average, the oven should  be set to a temperature of 350 degrees … Fahrenheit, and the chops  should cook for between 45 and 60 minutes. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pork and Pork Products CURFFL Section 113996(a)(3) Unless a customer requests a food to be cooked other than thoroughly, all pork or foods made with pork must be cooked to an minimum internal temperature of at least 145° F for 15 seconds. Some pork contains parasitic worms and harmful bacteria
That could be pork’s new slogan after the United States Department of Agriculture on Tuesday said it was lowering its safe cooking temperature to 145 degrees, from the longtime standard of 160. The new recommendation is in line with what many cookbook authors and chefs have been saying for years. The same temperature guidelines already apply to whole cuts of beef, lamb and veal. Other recommendations are unchanged. Ground pork, beef, lamb and veal should be cooked to 160 degrees, the agency said, and poultry should be cooked to 165 degrees.
Cooking method is immaterial. All meats should be cooked to their safe internal temperature, then rested for about five minutes to insure the entire portion temp stabilizes. Temperatures should be taken at the thickest portion of the food. Meat should be firm, not mushy; juices should be clear, not pink. This requirement does not apply to cured foods such as bacon or ham, or USDA-inspected fully cooked products such as lunch meats containing pork or summer sausages.
I would recommend cooking boneless pork chops to about 140*F. That is the temperature that most of the recipies i use call for and I always have nice juicy chops.   A … s far as i know, bone in chops should be cooked to the same temperature, they may just take longer to get there. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pork and Pork Products CURFFL Section 113996(a)(3) Unless a customer requests a food to be cooked other than thoroughly, all pork or foods made with pork must be cooked to an minimum internal temperature of at least 145° F for 15 seconds. Some pork contains parasitic worms and harmful bacteria
“The new guidelines will help consumers enjoy pork at its most flavorful, juicy – and safe – temperature.”. The revised recommendation applies to pork whole-muscle cuts, such as loin, chops and roasts. Ground pork, like all ground meat, should be cooked to 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Regardless of cut or cooking method, both the USDA and National Pork Board recommend using a digital cooking thermometer to ensure an accurate final temperature. “Pork cooked to this temperature will be juicy and tender. The foodservice industry has been following this pork cooking standard for nearly 10 years.”. The new recommendation reflects advances in both food safety and nutritional content of pork in recent years.