Overdominance leads to stabilizing selection that maintains both alleles in a population. A) The allele frequency converges to an equilibrium value irrespective of the initial frequency. In the example, w11 = 0.9, w12 = 1 and w22 = 0.8 and the equilibrium frequency of allele A is 0.667. Selection against a dominant allele present at an initial frequency of 0.70 in a population. The change in frequency of the allele over 100 generations is shown for three different selection coefficients. If s=1.0, the allele is eliminated in one generation.
Natural selection, genetic drift, and gene flow are the mechanisms that cause changes in allele frequencies over time. In this scenario, the deleterious allele will remain at an intermediate equilibrium frequency that reflects the balance between gene flow and natural selection. The common conception of evolution focuses on change due to natural selection. Natural selection is certainly an important mechanism of allele-frequency change, and it is the only mechanism that generates adaptation of organisms to their environments
The generalized model of natural selection is based on one locus with two alleles, and is applicable to diploid plants and diploid fungal pathogens (oomycetes and basidiomycetes). It is used to predict how fast allele or genotype frequencies will change as a result of natural selection. Selection against a dominant allele present at an initial frequency of 0.70 in a population. The change in frequency of the allele over 100 generations is shown for three different selection coefficients. If s=1.0, the allele is eliminated in one generation.
9 Calculate the frequencies of alleles subjected to selection pressure over five generations. 9 Draw a graph that demonstrates the changes of allele frequencies over five generations. 9 Describe how natural selection can affect allele frequencies over time. MATERIALS: colored pencils (2) paper bag graph paper pinto beans white navy beans PROCEDURE: Assume that the pinto beans represent alleles that produce normal-colored gray rabbits and that gray fur is dominant to white fur. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Natural selection can increase the frequencies of alleles if they are advantageous to a species' survival and reproductive abilities. If they somehow produce a phenotype that is not a selective advantage, their frequency will decrease. Alleles that give an organism a better chance of survival in their environment, better chance of reproduction, will become more frequent in a population. EX. There are dark and light moths in an environment. A factory is erected nearby and the environment becomes darker due to soot
Best Answer: natural selection acts like a filter, removing alleles that negatively effects the population, and keeping the alleles that positively or neutrally effect the population. Source(s): evirustheslaye · 6 years ago. 
Through natural selection the frequency of people with the sickle cell allele will increase because they survive and are able to pass on their gene. More people will die who do not have the allele, so they are unable to pass on their genes. Confidence votes 48. Natural selection is the process where individuals of a population are deemed unfit to survive or that more than one variation of individuals are deemed fit to survive and prosper. Depending on the situation, the allele frequency may be reduced or increased.