Prime Rib Roast is a specialty in many countries and is served at many holiday gatherings. To determine the size you need for your meal, plan for about 8-10 oz. per adult. 3-4 garlic cloves, minced. Olive oil (as desired). 3 tbsp NorthStar Seasoning or your favorite seasoning mix or rub. Instructions. Coat thawed or fresh roast with olive oil and cover with garlic and seasoning. Wrap with foil and marinate in the refrigerator for 12-24 hours. Take out of refrigerator and remove foil 1 hour before putting in oven. Set EGG for indirect cooking at 500°F/260C. Place meat on a Half-Moon Cast Iron Griddle or a flat cookie shee
1 For a bone-in prime rib, figure 2 servings per rib bone or 1 pound (450 g) per person (you should have leftovers). 2  For seasoning, use 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 ml) of kosher salt and 1/4 teaspoon (a pinch) black pepper per rib bone if you’re seasoning just 2 hours before cooking the roast. Either way, 2 hours before cooking the roast you’ll mix together the melted butter, black pepper, garlic, coriander and rosemary in a small bowl. If you haven’t already rubbed down the roast with salt 24 hours before, then also add the 2 teaspoons of salt to the mixture. Rub down the roast with the seasoning mixture.
So after 2 weeks of owning the Big Green Egg I decided that I really wanted to try to make prime rib, or a rib roast. Coincidentally (I swear), one of my favorite BBQ sites, AmazingRibs.com, actually updated his recipe for a rib roast so I decided to follow it but modified it slightly for my tastes and the Egg. 
It's also called a standing rib roast or beef rib roast. [Click here for my 20 Tips for Beef Rib Roasts ]. This year I cooked a USDA choice boneless rib roast for Christmas and I used the reverse sear method on my Big Green Egg. I have cooked rib roasts a variety of ways (high temp roast, low temp roast, sear/roast) and in my opinion, a reverse sear gives the most tender and evenly cooked rib roast. 
Set up your Big Green Egg for indirect cooking and preheat your egg to a temperature of 250*. Place your rib roast on the Big Green Egg and cook to an internal temperature of 110*. Once you get to 110* raise the temperature of the Big Green Egg to 450* and continue to cook until you get to 130*. After you remove let the rib roast rest for 15min tented with foil. Hope you enjoy. 
Lower the EGG temperature to 200°F/93°C and allow meat to cook for approximately 40 minutes. Use a meat thermometer to check internal temperature. 140°F/60°C internal temp will be rare. Remove roast and let set for 15 minutes before cutting and serving. Note: A standing Rib Roast will take a little longer to cook. 3-4 garlic cloves, minced. Olive oil (as desired). 3 tbsp NorthStar Seasoning or your favorite seasoning mix or rub. Instructions. Coat thawed or fresh roast with olive oil and cover with garlic and seasoning. Wrap with foil and marinate in the refrigerator for 12-24 hours. Take out of refrigerator and remove foil 1 hour before putting in oven. Set EGG for indirect cooking at 500°F/260C. Place meat on a Half-Moon Cast Iron Griddle or a flat cookie sheet
The Big Green Egg is a perfect oven for this. So here is what I do. 1) I air dry my standing rib roast. Get a pan (I use pyrex dish), and a rib roast rack. Wrap your rib roast in a clean towel or cheese cloth and set on an elevated rack over the pyrex dish. Set that in the fridge for a day or two. 2) I set out the rib roast on a kitchen counter about 2 or 3 hours before I plan to cook it. This brings the temp of the meat up to room temp rather than fridge temp and will shorten the time needed in the oven. We want to keep this tender. At the end of this use some Kosher or Sea Salt on the outside of the roast