If you are planning a 2 storey extension the upper floor would be an additional half of the £ per m². This is because much of the building work required for 1 storey is only needed once no matter if is 1 storey or more, such as the foundations and roof.
In most cases, when you are extending your home you will be able to keep all the original cladding on your house and simply add the same style of cladding to your addition so it blends in perfectly. Painting the exterior of an average sized, single-storey house with a one-room extension is likely to cost around $15,000.
Extensions are more expensive: RICS gives a guide cost of between £1,260 and £1,680 per square metre for an extension with plastered finish. So a 20-square metre single-storey extension will range from £25,200 to £33,600 – before you've put down flooring or installed a kitchen.
As a rough idea you can typically say that it will cost at least £1000 per m 2 or 93 per ft 2 including basic plumbing and electrician work. This price is per unit area of internal floor space and so a 5x4m single floor extension will have a total floor area of 20m 2 and a double storey will have 40m 2.
If you plan to buy most of the raw materials and undertake much of the work yourself, Channel 4 estimates that a single storey (20 metre square) extension will cost £15,900 (or £795 per square metre) whilst a two storey (40 metre square) extension will cost £28,040 or (£701 per square metre).
With the extension cost calculator you can get a quick, free, rough estimate of at least some of the costs involved in building extra room(s) for your house.
The best way to find out the cost of building an extension in your your area is to Post an Enquiry for home extension costs. You will get up to four house extension prices to compare and you are under no obligation whatsoever to accept any of them.
A same level house extension in New Zealand will cost approximately $60,000 to $200,000+. Adding a room or extending your living area on the ground floor are affordable ways of creating more space. Here are some key points to consider that will help you keep your renovation costs in check.
House extension costs vary significantly from project to project. Depending on size, complexity and location, an extension can cost anything from a few thousand pounds to a six figure sum. House extensions in the UK increase the living space in your home and can add a significant amount to the value of your property.