The algae used to make nori grows on the surface of the sea and is farmed using huge nets. In fact, 230 square miles of the Japanese coastline are dedicated solely to the production of nori, and over 300,000 tons is made every year! Items 1 to 30 of 35 total. Show. Nori's origins can be traced back all the way to ancient China and Japan around the 8th century. It is usually used as a wrap for sushi but it can also be found paired with various Asian dishes such as onigiri (a Japanese triangle shaped rice ball), miso soup, or just eaten plain as a snack.
Nori (海苔) is the Japanese name for edible seaweed species of the red algae genus Porphyra, including P. yeeziensis and P. tenera. Nori is familiar in the United States and other countries as an ingredient of sushi, being referred to as nori (as the Japanese do) or simply as seaweed. Finished products are made by a shredding and rack-drying process that resembles papermaking. A common secondary product is toasted and flavored nori (ajitsuke-nori), in which a flavoring mixture (variable, but typically soy sauce, sugar, sake, mirin, and seasonings) is applied in combination with the toasting process. It is also eaten by making it into a soy sauce-flavored paste, nori no tsukudani (海苔の佃煮).
Recipe by: ROSEYCAT. This recipe started as something I found off the back of a seaweed package, but has been adapted several times so that it can be made quickly with ingredients from most large grocery stores-or a local Asian grocery if you prefer. Nori is the Japanese word for dried sheets of seaweed.. 
Nori (Porphyra teneraor or yezoensis), also called Laver, is one of the most common seaweeds known for its use in making sushi. Popularized in Japan, where it grows abundantly, this classification of red seaweed has been used for centuries in Japan, China, and Korea, but also other countries around the world. 
Pin it. You probably know nori best as the paper-like dark green wrapping that keeps pieces of sushi neatly -- and deliciously! -- contained. Crisp sheets of this mild grassy-tasting seaweed last forever in the pantry and can come in handy when you just need a little something extra to perk up a weeknight meal. Nori is made by shredding edible seaweed and then pressing it into thin sheets -- much like the process for making paper. You can find packages of it at any Asian grocery store, Whole Foods, and more and more frequently these days, regular grocery stores. 
It's Strangely Addictive! SeaSnax is a nutrient-packed roasted seaweed snack which is vegan, gluten free and Non-GMO Project verified. It is made with sustainably-grown organic seaweed, using 100% organic extra virgin olive oil and just a pinch of sea salt. 
Nori is not sold in a fresh, harvested state. It is always made into sheets. Nori Production. When harvested it is first washed with fresh water and then fed into a shredding machine which reduces it to pieces about .5 x 1 cm in size. It is rolled up in a seaweed sheet typically 7 to 7 1/2 inches by 8 to 8 1/2 inches in size. It is also toasted before packaging and has to be stored in an air-tight container after opening to reduce air exposure and prevent it from absorbing moisture as it will lose its crispiness if it is not.
It is the Japanese name for dried edible seaweed sheets made from a species of red algae called Porphyra, including Porphyra yezoensis and Porphyra tenera. It is probably most popularly know for its use in making Sushi, but it is used in many other applications too. So Many Uses... Take a look at the images above. It is rolled up in a seaweed sheet typically 7 to 7 1/2 inches by 8 to 8 1/2 inches in size. It is also toasted before packaging and has to be stored in an air-tight container after opening to reduce air exposure and prevent it from absorbing moisture as it will lose its crispiness if it is not.