While calcium is necessary to build and maintain strong bones, it's vitamin D that aids in it's absorption. If you're not getting enough vitamin D, your bones could become weak, brittle, and even misshapen. A combination of vitamin D and calcium is necessary to prevent osteoporosis in older adults. Sunlight helps produce vitamin D in your body and the NIH suggests as little as 10-15 minutes of sun exposure just 3 times a week will give you adequate amounts. Kick The Soda Habit.
Bones contain a lot of calcium. It is important to get enough calcium in your diet. You can get calcium through foods and/or calcium pills, which you can get at the grocery store or drug store. Getting calcium through food is definitely better since the food provides other nutrients that keep you healthy. 
So here are the three tips on how you can prevent osteoporosis: 1. Load Up On Calcium. Calcium is your bone’s best friend. It also helps in maintaining body weight, keep your teeth healthy, protect the heart, and lessen severe PMS or pre-menstrual syndrome. Lack of calcium may result to developing osteoporosis. Osteoporosis Signs and Symptoms. In order to understand how to prevent osteoporosis, you must know the signs and symptoms that go along with it. In fact, there are many determinants on the causes of osteoporosis. One of them is the gender.
A bone density test measures a small part of one or a few bones to evaluate the strength of your bones and potential risk for osteoporosis. The bones most commonly measured by a bone density test include the hip, the spine, and the heel. The most widely used bone density test is the DXA test of the hip and lower spine. 
You can build strong bones and help prevent osteoporosis with weight-bearing exercise and a diet rich in calcium and vitamin D. Young women in particular need to be aware of their risk for osteoporosis. They can take steps early to slow its progress and prevent complications. 
Exercise is always a good way on how to prevent osteoporosis, or any medical condition in general. When you have a regular workout plan, the movement of the body helps prevent bone loss and can actually help make your bones stronger with age. Osteoporosis Signs and Symptoms. In order to understand how to prevent osteoporosis, you must know the signs and symptoms that go along with it. In fact, there are many determinants on the causes of osteoporosis. One of them is the gender.
1 Calcium and vitamin D intake. 2  A diet low in calcium and vitamin D makes you more prone to bone loss. 3  Medication use. 4  Some medicines increase the risk of osteoporosis. 5  Activity level. 6  Lack of exercise or long-term bed rest can cause weak bones. 7  Smoking. 8  Cigarettes are bad for bones, and the heart, and lungs, too. Many risk factors can lead to bone loss and osteoporosis. Some of these things you cannot change and others you can. Risk factors you cannot change include: 1  Gender. 2  Women get osteoporosis more often than men. 3  Age. 4  The older you are, the greater your
If you are using HT to prevent osteoporosis, be sure to talk to your doctor so that you can weigh the benefits of HT against your personal risk for heart attack, stroke, blood clots, and breast cancer. If needed, your doctor can prescribe different treatments to prevent osteoporosis and fractures. 1 Vitamin D. 2  Your body uses vitamin D to absorb calcium. 3  Being out in the sun for a total of about 20 minutes every day helps most people’s bodies make enough vitamin D. You can also get vitamin D from eggs, fatty fish like salmon, cereal and milk fortified with vitamin D, as well as from supplements.
1 If you get enough calcium from your diet, don’t take calcium supplements unless recommended by your doctor. 2  Too much calcium may have unpleasant side effects, including the possibility of kidney stones. 3  Magnesium is an important mineral for bone and overall body health. There are some risk factors for osteoporosis, such as age and ethnicity, that you can’t change. Fortunately, there are many ways you can take action to help slow down bone loss and prevent osteoporosis.
1 This eating disorder can lead to osteoporosis. 2  Calcium and vitamin D intake. 3  A diet low in calcium and vitamin D makes you more prone to bone loss. 4  Medication use. 5  Some medicines increase the risk of osteoporosis. 6  Activity level. 7  Lack of exercise or long-term bed rest can cause weak bones. Many risk factors can lead to bone loss and osteoporosis. Some of these things you cannot change and others you can. Risk factors you cannot change include: 1  Gender. 2  Women get osteoporosis more often than men. 3  Age. 4  The older you are, the greater your