Best Answer: The sporangia of the bread mould Rhizopus are Asexual structures that produce haploid spores. Hence, the correct answer is a...!! b. asexual structures that produce diploid spores. c. sexual structures that produce haploid spores. d. sexual structures that produce diploid spores. e. vegetative structures with no role in reproduction. Add your answer. Source.
Rhizopus is a cosmopolitan filamentous fungus frequently isolated from soil, decaying fruit and vegetables, animal feces, and old bread. Aside from being known as common contaminants, Rhizopus species are also occasional causes of serious, and often fatal, infections in humans. 
There are multiple species of Rhizopus, but Rhizopus stolonifer earned this species name because it is a black mold that grows on bread and its spores float around in the air. Rhizopus stolonifer also uses rhizoids as a way to anchor itself to the vast array of substrates it can come in contact with. The kingdom Fungi consists of organisms that are heterotrophic. Rhizopus stolonifer is a mold that lacks chlorophyll, is non-motile, filamentous, and a decomposer of organic material.
Black bread mold (Rhizopus stolonifer) is a widely distributed thread-like mucoralean mold. Commonly found on bread surfaces, it takes food and nutrients from the bread and causes damage to the surface where it lives. Asexual spores are formed within pinhead-like sporangia, which break to release the spores when mature. Germination of these spores forms the haploid hyphae of a new mycelium
(molds on food): An article from: Medical Update [HTML] (Digital) Bread Mold Fungus is a member of the Zygomycota. As with other members of the Zygomycota, under certain conditions the hyphae, which come in positive and negative mating strains, come together and form sexual structures. The picture at the right, believe it or not, shows one of the most common fungi in the world, the Bread Mold Fungus, Rhizopus stolonifer.
Posted on January 17, 2013 by Ayesha Batul. Molds are the common fungi found on the surface of stale food. The very acquainted mold appearing on bread is Rhizopus Stolonifer. Molds are fungi that grow in the form of translucent multicellular filaments called hyphae and a network of these hyphae is known as mycelium. 
Brief Summary. Learn more about this article. This is one of the important species in genus Rhizopus. It is recognized as black bread mold also because it generally attacks the bread and produces the black colored sporangium and spore. In fact it has the whole mycelium of black color. Rhizopus stolonifer was first established in 1818 by the (Ehthrenberg) Vuillemin
A. A Filamentous Fungus: Rhizopus (Black bread mold). 1  On an amenable medium, Rhizopus can be seen with the naked eye, appearing as a fuzzy white mat growing all over the surface. ( 2 And down into the medium. 3  And even over the top of the petri dish sometimes.) This is the mycelium, or body of a fungus. 1 On an amenable medium, Rhizopus can be seen with the naked eye, appearing as a fuzzy white mat growing all over the surface. ( 2 And down into the medium. 3  And even over the top of the petri dish sometimes.) This is the mycelium, or body of a fungus. 4  Each strand is called a hypha (plural, hyphae).