COPD doesn’t have to be the end. Do some research and ask your doctor everything you can about this progressive disease. If you or a loved one suffers from COPD and want to learn more about treatment options, contact us or call (855) 469-5864. To be honest, there is no universal answer to this question. COPD is a condition that occurs at different ages and effects everyone. The sad truth is that anyone can get this disease at some point in their life.
During your 40’s and 50’s, the signs and symptoms of COPD typically start to appear. Shortness of breath, chronic cough and tightness of the chest are the symptoms most often reported by COPD sufferers. COPD in your 60’s and beyond is when the disease does the most damage. Patients require oxygen support and lose over 50 percent of lung function, making breathing that much harder. To be honest, there is no universal answer to this question. COPD is a condition that occurs at different ages and effects everyone. The sad truth is that anyone can get this disease at some point in their life.
Lifestyle changes and treatments, however, can slow it down. In 2000, 3.9% of the U.S. population between the ages of 25–44 were living with COPD; that number was 7.7% for those between ages 55–64, and 9.5% in people over 74 years of age. While smoking is a major risk factor, more than 15% of people who develop COPD have never smoked. A diagnosis of COPD is rare at this age. “Although we dont see COPD in children, we do realize now that children who have asthma may be at risk of COPD later in life because of the [lung changes] that result from asthma,” explains Dr. Schachter.
If you're in your 20s or 30s. A diagnosis of COPD is rare at this age. “Although we dont see COPD in children, we do realize now that children who have asthma may be at risk of COPD later in life because of the [lung changes] that result from asthma,” explains Dr. Schachter.
COPD & Age. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) makes up a group of lung disorders that cause blocked airways. The most common forms are chronic bronchitis and emphysema. According to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), COPD is the third most common cause of death in the United States. It takes several years for COPD to develop. The Mayo Clinic states that most people are at least 35 to 40 years old when COPD first shows signs. The NHLBI reports that the disease develops most often in people who are 40 or older. While rare, it’s not entirely impossible to develop COPD as a young adult.
The diagnosis of COPD should be considered in anyone over the age of 35 to 40 who has shortness of breath, a chronic cough, sputum production, or frequent winter colds and a history of exposure to risk factors for the disease. Spirometry is then used to confirm the diagnosis. 
Most people with emphysema are at least 40 years old or around middle age when symptoms start. It is unusual, but possible, for people less than 40 years old to have emphysema symptoms. 
According to Health magazine, in the year 2000, 3.9 percent of the U.S. population between the ages of 25 to 44 were living with COPD, 7.7 percent between the ages of 55 to 65 and 9.5 percent of people over the age of 74. To be honest, there is no universal answer to this question. COPD is a condition that occurs at different ages and effects everyone. The sad truth is that anyone can get this disease at some point in their life.
COPD can be diagnosed in adults as early as their 20's and 30's, but COPD diagnosis in people in their 40's is on the rise, says Dr. Neil Schachter, medical director of respiratory care at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. 1 More than 12 million people in the United States have COPD. 2  Another 12 million have COPD but go undiagnosed. 3  COPD is the fourth leading cause of death in the U.S. and the only one in the top ten on the rise. 4  It is estimated that 80-90% of COPD cases are due to smoking.
COPD—the number 3 killer in the nation—is almost always caused by smoking. Smoking accounts for as many as 9 out of 10 COPD-related deaths. COPD most often occurs in people age 40 and older with a history of smoking (either current or former smokers). However, as many as one out of six people with COPD never smoked. Smoking during childhood and teenage years can slow how lungs grow and develop. This can increase the risk of developing COPD in adulthood. 