There are two types of container transportation methods which can be used, Less than Container Load (LCL) and Full Container Load (FCL). It is important to use the correct shipping method in order to maximise profitability for your business. 
The respective meaning of the terms FCL and LCL is as follows: FCL. -----. full container load;full carload. LCL. -----. less than container load;loose container load;less than carload;loose carload. FCL versus LCL. The word carload relates to the rail car. The FCL and LCL are differentiated, in practice, on whether the 'whole container' or 'not the whole container' is intended for the consignee. The FCL means the load reaches its allowable maximum (or full) weight or measurement. 
FCL – full container load for shipping goods. Transportation in ocean containers (if the length of the boat does not exceed 19 feet). FCL-an abbreviation for Full Container Load. The term used to describe ocean freight, when the shipper has the exclusive right to use a lot of multi-modal ocean cargo container.
There are two kinds of ocean shipments: LCL and FCL. FCL = Full Container Load LCL = Less Container Load An LCL container has more than one company's goods in it, so it's more expensive to ship because the freight company has to do more work. 
FCL is an abbreviation for Full Container Load. FCL term is used in ocean freight service describing full container shipipng from on one place to another. FCL usually associates one shipper and one consignee. Full container shipping usually brings lower cost, than equivalent size and weight of cargo bulk. You may find FCL sea freight service compared with LCL (Less than Container Load) to be more efficient, cost-effective, and convenient for you. For sizable ocean freight shipping FCL is the most appropriate choice for you ocean cargo transportation.
Worldwide LCL, LTL and FCL Transportation. Crowley offers a full suite of worldwide logistics services for both full-and less-than-container/trailer-load cargo (LCL/LTL). We specialize in serving the United States, Central America and the Caribbean markets. Our logistics team can also help you with your full container load (FCL) shipments to markets in the Caribbean Basin and beyond. Our LCL / FCL services include: 1  U.S. inland trucking. 2  Freight forwarding. 3  Crowley managed and employed warehousing / distribution center network.
full container load (FCL). A standard (twenty or forty-foot) container that is loaded and unloaded under the risk and account of the shipper or consignee. In general, a full container load attracts lower freight rates than an equivalent weight of loose (break bulk) cargo. 
FCL. Full Container Load (FCL). Full Container Load means that all goods in the container are listed on a single Bill of Lading, and as such are owned by a single party. It does not matter how full the container is. Payment is made on the basis of a full container. More about activity.