Preheat oven to 220°C. Using a sharp knife, score pork skin at 1cm intervals. Roll up pork. Tie with cooking string to secure. Rub skin with oil and sea salt. Place pork onto a rack in a large greased baking dish. Roast for 30 minutes. Season well with salt and pepper. Arrange apples in roasting pan with pork. Roast apples with pork for a further 20 to 30 minutes or until pork is just cooked through and skin is golden and crispy.
Rub the rind with 1/2 of the olive oil. Flip the loin over and rub the flesh side with the remaining olive oil. Place the garlic, thyme, and rosemary up against the flesh. Using butcher's twine, tie the herbs to the loin. Place the loin on a rack in a roasting pan and roast for 30 minutes. 
1 Sprinkle with salt, again make sure it is down into the slits. 2  Place the pork into a large roasting tin. 3  Tuck the two onion halves under the meat, this will help keep the meat upright as well as adding flavour to the meat. 4  Cook for 1 hour and 40 minutes. 1 Remove the onion from the pan, then place the pan on the stove top over a high heat until the meat juices begin to bubble but not burning. 2  Add the flour, and stir to blend into the meat juices. 3  Pour in the cider or wine and scrape all the juices from the bottom of the pan, reduce to a sticky glaze.
1 Remove the pork from the fridge and use a sharp knife to score the skin of the pork at 1cm intervals. 2  This does require assertive use of the knife, or get your butcher to do it. 3  Rub the oil into the skin and then the sea salt and black pepper. 4  Make sure you push some salt into the slits. method. 1 
1 Put the pork on a trivet or rack in a roasting tray and roast in the hot oven for 30 minutes. 2  Turn the heat down to 200°C/fan180°C/gas 6 and roast for a further 50 minutes to 1 hour or until the pork is cooked through, basting the pork halfway through with the pan juices. 
1 Place loin roast onto a rack inside a baking dish and rub the rind with olive oil and flaked salt. 2  Roast the pork loin in the pre-heated oven at 220°C for 30 minutes then reduce oven temperature to 180°C for a further 45 minutes. 3  Remove from oven and allow rest for 10-15 minutes prior to slicing. 1 Pre-heat oven to 220°C. 2  Lay pork loin roast flat rind side down on a wooden board. 3  Combine the lemon zest and lemon, lemon thyme, sage leaves, olive oil, salt and pepper together in a mortar and pestle to a rough paste. 4  Spread the mixture over the surface of the pork, roll and string in a log shape.
Lightly spray apples with oil. Season well with salt and pepper. Arrange apples in roasting pan with pork. Roast apples with pork for a further 20 to 30 minutes or until pork is just cooked through and skin is golden and crispy. Transfer pork and apples to a carving plate. Stand for 10 minutes
Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Dry the pork thoroughly with kitchen towels and rub all over with salt. Place the pork and any trimmings into a roasting tin. Peel the shallots, cut them in half lengthways and add them to the tin. Pour 250ml/9fl oz dry cider into the tin. Stir thoroughly. When the pork is cooked, remove it from the oven and allow it to rest for at least 15 minutes. Pour any juices from the pork into your sauce. To serve, remove the crackling in one piece (if it's not crispy enough then return it to the oven for 5-10 minutes). Cut the loin off the bone in one piece. Carve the meat into thick slabs and serve a good piece of crackling and some shallot with each one. Pour over the sauce and garnish with fresh sage leaves
Now place the pork in a tin, skin-side up, halve the onion and wedge the two pieces in slightly underneath the meat. Now take about 1 tbsp of crushed salt crystals and sprinkle it evenly over the skin, pressing it in as much as you can. Place the pork on a high shelf in the oven and roast it for 25 minutes. Turn the heat down to 190C/375F/Gas 5, and calculate the total cooking time allowing 35 minutes to the pound, then deduct the initial 25 minutes cooking time. In this case it would be a further 2½ hours. Preparation method. Pre-heat the oven to 240C/475F/Gas 9. While the oven is preheating, score the skin of the pork. It will be scored already, but it's always best to add a few more lines.