Telcagepant (INN) (code name MK-0974) is a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist which was an investigational drug for the acute treatment and prevention of migraine, developed by Merck & Co. Telcagepant acts as a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor (CRLR) antagonist and blocks this peptide. It is believed to constrict dilated blood vessels within the brain.
CGRP is produced in both peripheral and central neurons. It is a potent peptide vasodilator and can function in the transmission of pain. In the spinal cord, the function and expression of CGRP may differ depending on the location of synthesis. Conversely, CGRP is derived from dorsal root ganglion when synthesized in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and may be linked to the transmission of pain. In the trigeminal vascular system, the cell bodies on the trigeminal ganglion are the main source of CGRP.
Abstract. The neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) has long been postulated to play an integral role in the pathophysiology of migraine. While clinical findings are consistent with such a role, the specific pathogenic mechanisms of CGRP in migraine have remained speculative until recently. CGRP IN MIGRAINE. CGRP is postulated to be involved in several of the pathophysiological processes, including dilation of cerebral and dural blood vessels, release of inflammatory mediators from mast cells, and transmission of nociceptive information from intracranial blood vessels to the nervous system.
A gene on chromosome 11p15.2 that encodes peptide hormones calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and katacalcin, by tissue-specific alternative RNA splicing of gene transcripts and cleavage of inactive precursor peptides. 
Calcitonin Gene Related Peptide (CGRP) Antibody Description. Background. CGRP antibody recognizes Calcitonin Gene Related Peptide or CGRP which is a 37 amino acid peptide and is the most potent endogenous vasodilator currently known. CGRP is primarily produced in nervous tissue, however, its receptors are expressed throughout the body. A BLAST analysis was used to suggest cross-reactivity with CGRP from most mammalian sources based on very high homology with the immunizing sequence. Calcitonin Gene Related Peptide antibody also recognizes rat beta-CGRP and human alpha-CGRP (10-fold less sensitivity compared to rat alpha-CGRP).
Regulation of the calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) gene is in part controlled by the expression of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) signaling pathway, cytokines such as TNFα and iNOS. Conversely, CGRP is derived from dorsal root ganglion when synthesized in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and may be linked to the transmission of pain. In the trigeminal vascular system, the cell bodies on the trigeminal ganglion are the main source of CGRP.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) is a member of the calcitonin family of peptides, which in humans exists in two forms, α-CGRP and β-CGRP. α-CGRP is a 37- amino acid peptide and is formed from the alternative splicing of the calcitonin/CGRP gene located on chromosome 11. Conversely, CGRP is derived from dorsal root ganglion when synthesized in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and may be linked to the transmission of pain. In the trigeminal vascular system, the cell bodies on the trigeminal ganglion are the main source of CGRP.