It may take three to four weeks for bruised ribs to heal. However, severe injuries may take a lot longer to heal, extending up to about ten weeks. Consult a doctor if you experience the symptoms mentioned to avoid complication and delayed healing. A bruise or a contusion can occur on the ribs, just like other parts of the body. 1  An injury to the chest or upper abdominal area can result in a bruised rib. 2  A strong impact can cause the ribs to push against the muscles surrounding them, causing a bruise to develop.
The most likely cause of bruised ribs is a blow to the chest. This pushes the ribs against the surrounding muscles and the impact may bruise the ribs. While the injury is referred to as bruised ribs, the majority of the pain is caused by injuries to the surrounding muscles and rib cage cartilage. You have 24 ribs (seven sets) that protect your internal organs and help you breathe. A direct blow to the chest can cause ribs to bruise, break, or separate from the breastbone. While bruised ribs are extremely painful, in most cases they heal completely. Medioimages/Photodisc / Thinkstock.
2. Ice the injured area. Icing your rib will help reduce pain and swelling, so that the bruised tissue can heal more quickly. Stick to ice for the first 72 hours after an injury, and resist the urge to break out a heating pad instead. 1 You're experiencing increasing pain in your chest, abdomen, or shoulder. 2  You develop a cough or fever. 3  The pain in your chest is intense, but you can twist to look over your shoulder without a marked increase in pain. 4  A bruised rib will feel worse with twisting your torso; something more serious will not.
Bruised ribs are notorious for their long healing time. Unfortunately, unlike other bones of the body, ribs cannot be placed in a cast, which is why we need to wait for them to heal on their own. Typical healing time for bruised ribs is anywhere between 3 to 6 weeks. However, some may take even longer. The actual healing time required will vary depending on the severity of the bruise and muscle injury. Bruised ribs indicate an injury to the muscles surrounding the ribs rather than the ribs themselves. Bruised ribs heal on their own, and only small measures to promote healing can be undertaken.
Introduction. Broken (fractured) or bruised ribs are usually caused by a fall or blow to the chest, or occasionally by severe coughing. They can be very painful, but will normally improve within about three to six weeks. If you think you've injured your ribs, you'll often be able to look after yourself at home. Ribs can't be easily splinted or supported like other bones, so they're usually left to heal naturally. Broken and bruised ribs are generally treated in the same way, so it's not usually necessary to have an X-ray to determine what your exact injury is.
Best Answer: yeah, theyre bruised. They would hurt when your breathed and coughed if they were cracked. If the bones themselves are bruised it can take a few weeks for them the heal completely, although the pain and sorness stick around for much longer.
Make sure you don't have broken ribs. A rib that's bruised or cracked is damaged, but still in its place in the rib cage. A broken rib, however, is dangerous because it's been dislodged from its normal position, and could potentially puncture a lung or another organ. 1 You're experiencing increasing pain in your chest, abdomen, or shoulder. 2  You develop a cough or fever. 3  The pain in your chest is intense, but you can twist to look over your shoulder without a marked increase in pain. 4  A bruised rib will feel worse with twisting your torso; something more serious will not.
Bruised Ribs Healing Time. Bruised ribs indicate an injury to the muscles surrounding the ribs rather than the ribs themselves. Bruised ribs heal on their own, and only small measures to promote healing can be undertaken. They take about 3-6 weeks to heal completely
Overview. You have 24 ribs (seven sets) that protect your internal organs and help you breathe. A direct blow to the chest can cause ribs to bruise, break, or separate from the breastbone. While bruised ribs are extremely painful, in most cases they heal completely. Medioimages/Photodisc / Thinkstock.
The immediate treatment of bruised ribs is to take a complete rest and reduce one's activities. Other ways to help heal rib bruises include: 1  Taking pain killers and anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen. 2  Some doctors may prescribe narcotic pain medications. A bruise or a contusion can occur on the ribs, just like other parts of the body. 1  An injury to the chest or upper abdominal area can result in a bruised rib. 2  A strong impact can cause the ribs to push against the muscles surrounding them, causing a bruise to develop.