A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan uses magnets and radio waves to capture images inside your body without making a surgical incision. The scan allows your doctor to see the soft tissues of the body, such as muscles, without your bones obstructing the view. The Risks of a Pelvis MRI Scan. Since the test does not use radiation, there are few risks from an MRI scan. However, there are risks for those who have implants containing metal. The magnets used in an MRI can cause problems with pacemakers or cause implanted screws or pins to shift in the body.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive medical test that physicians use to diagnose and treat medical conditions. MRI uses a powerful magnetic field, radio frequency pulses and a computer to produce detailed pictures of organs, soft tissues, bone and virtually all other internal body structures. MRI does not use ionizing radiation (x-rays).
slide 1 of 5. There are many times, a pelvic MRI or a pelvic CT scan need to be used to diagnose medical conditions or abnormalities. These two diagnostic testing tools both produce images that can be used to diagnose medical conditions. Many medical conditions of the pelvis can be diagnosed using two imaging methods, a pelvic MRI and a CT scan of the pelvic area.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Guide. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a test that uses a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy to make pictures of organs and structures inside the body. In many cases, MRI gives different information about structures in the body than can be seen with an X-ray, ultrasound, or computed tomography (CT) scan. 1 Sometimes contrast material is used to see the blood vessels more clearly. 2  Abdomen and pelvis. 3  MRI can find problems in the organs and structures in the belly, such as the liver, gallbladder, pancreas, kidneys, and bladder.
Ultrasound-Pelvis. Ultrasound imaging of the pelvis uses sound waves to produce pictures of the structures and organs in the lower abdomen and pelvis. There are three types of pelvic ultrasound: abdominal, vaginal (for women), and rectal (for men). These exams are frequently used to evaluate the reproductive and urinary systems. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a test done with a large machine that uses a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy to make pictures of organs and structures inside the belly. In many cases MRI gives information about structures in the body that cannot be seen as well with an X-ray, ultrasound, or CT scan. For an MRI test, you are placed inside the magnet so that your belly is inside the strong magnetic field. MRI can find changes in the structure of organs or other tissues.
While an MRI can be done on any part of your body, a pelvis MRI scan specifically helps your doctor to see the bones, organs, blood vessels, and other tissues in your pelvic region—the area between your hips that holds your reproductive organs. The Risks of a Pelvis MRI Scan. Since the test does not use radiation, there are few risks from an MRI scan. However, there are risks for those who have implants containing metal. The magnets used in an MRI can cause problems with pacemakers or cause implanted screws or pins to shift in the body.
A pelvic CT scan can allow doctors to properly diagnose medical conditions using a CT machine. This machine uses x-ray equipments and computers to produce images of the inside of the body. The machine produces cross-sectional images that can be used to diagnose medical conditions. Pelvic CT scans allow doctors to see bones, blood vessels, organs, and soft tissues inside the pelvic area. Many medical conditions of the pelvis can be diagnosed using two imaging methods, a pelvic MRI and a CT scan of
1 Abdomen and pelvis. 2  MRI can find problems in the organs and structures in the belly, such as the liver, gallbladder, pancreas, kidneys, and bladder. 3  It is used to find tumors, bleeding, infection, and blockage. 4  In women, it can look at the uterus and ovaries. 1 Sometimes contrast material is used to see the blood vessels more clearly. 2  Abdomen and pelvis. 3
Pelvis MRI Scan. A pelvis MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) scan is a imaging test that uses a machine with powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the area between the hip bones. This part of the body is called the pelvic area. Structures inside and near the pelvis include the bladder, prostate and other male reproductive organs, female reproductive organs, lymph nodes, and pelvic bones. An MRI does not use radiation. Single MRI images are called slices.