The central processor of a computer is also known as the CPU, or central processing unit.. This processor handles all the basic system instructions, such as processing mouse and keyboard input and running applications. Most desktop computers contain a CPU developed by either Intel or AMD, both of which use the x86 processor architecture. Mobile devices, such as laptops and tablets may use Intel and AMD CPUs, but can also use specific mobile processors developed by companies like ARM or Apple.
Part of the Microprocessors glossary: CPU (central processing unit) is an older term for processor and microprocessor, the central unit in a computer containing the logic circuitry that performs the instructions of a computer's programs. This was last updated in April 2005. Posted by: Margaret Rouse.
Full Definition of PROCESSOR. 1. 2. a (1) : computer (2) : cpu b: a computer program (as a compiler) that puts another program into a form acceptable to the computer. 3. : food processor. See processor defined for English-language learners. See processor defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Stands for Central Processing Unit.. The CPU is the primary component of a computer that processes instructions. It runs the operating system and applications, constantly receiving input from the user or active software programs. 
CPU (pronounced as separate letters) is the abbreviation for central processing unit. Sometimes referred to simply as the central processor, but more commonly called processor, the CPU is the brains of the computer where most calculations take place. In terms of computing power, the CPU is the most important element of a computer system.
Computer Software Definition. Software is a generic term for organized collections of computer data and instructions, often broken into two major categories: system software that provides the basic non-task-specific functions of the computer, and application software which is used by users to accomplish specific tasks. 
Processor. A processor, or microprocessor, is a small chip that resides in computers and other electronic devices. Its basic job is to receive input and provide the appropriate output. While this may seem like a simple task, modern processors can handle trillions of calculations per second. Most desktop computers contain a CPU developed by either Intel or AMD, both of which use the x86 processor architecture. Mobile devices, such as laptops and tablets may use Intel and AMD CPUs, but can also use specific mobile processors developed by companies like ARM or Apple.
Eurotech, File Hosts. A CPU is a central processing unit, the core of a computer&#039;s functionality. The CPU is the main part of a computer that processes the mathematical calculations necessary for a computer&#039;s functions. CPUs are commonly called the brains of a computer because it cannot function without its CPU component. A computer central processing unit (CPU) is the brain of the computer. This chip runs all processes on a computer. A CPU... 1  Definition of Processor Speed.
Part of the Microprocessors glossary: A processor is the logic circuitry that responds to and processes the basic instruction s that drive a computer. The term processor has generally replaced the term central processing unit (CPU). The processor in a personal computer or embedded in small devices is often called a microprocessor. quad-core processor. - A quad-core processor is a chip with four independent units called cores that read and execute central processing unit (CPU) instructions such as add, move data, and branch.