Antigua Guatemala has a large variety of typical dishes, this is due to large fusions of two great cultures in Food in Guatemala. Typical Saucer Pepian in Antigua Guatemala. The pepian pepián is one of many typical dishes that are In, guatemala you can taste this dish when you visit the city Of Antigua. Guatemala the pepian pepián has different flavors around. the world
Rellenitos of Platano an exquisite Temptation. Antigua Guatemala has a large variety of typical dishes, this is due to large fusions of two great cultures in Food in Guatemala. Among these dishes highlight Rellenitos of platano, this is a mass of filler Banana Beans, fried and sugary weathers. Typical Saucer Pepian in Antigua Guatemala. The pepian pepián is one of many typical dishes that are In, guatemala you can taste this dish when you visit the city Of Antigua. Guatemala the pepian pepián has different flavors around. the world
Food. Guatemala does not have a standout national dish, but several foods feature in everyday diets. Almost all dishes include some form of black beans, white rice and corn tortillas. Breakfast often combines the aforementioned elements with scrambled eggs and fried plantains. Meats typically come sauteed in chili sauce or boiled in savory stews. For instance, pepian is a thick meat and vegetable stew prepared in the highland town of Antigua. Traditional Guatemalan snack foods come in the form of tamales and empanadas. These fried pastries usually consist of corn meal, potatoes and meat. Fresh fruits from the rain forest are also popular as cheap and healthy snack food
Traditional Guatemalan Food. Foods were introduced by both Mayans and the Spanish conquerors. The Mayans grew maize (corn) as their main source of food. Corn was more than just a crop to the Mayans. It was believed that when the Mayan gods wanted to create man, none of the materials like wood or clay worked well. Today, the majority of meals include corn in some form, most commonly corn tortillas [source: Maya Paradise ]. While Guatemala was under Spanish rule from 1524 to 1821, the Spaniards introduced dishes like enchiladas, guacamole, tamales and tortillas [source: Food In Every Country ].
Guatemalan Food and Recipes. Guatemalan food and drink is primarily influenced by the country's Mayan and Spanish cultures. Corn, beans, rice, cheese and tortillas form the backbone of most Guatemalan meals. Meat stews (caldos) and soups (sopas) are also popular dishes. Extremely poor Guatemalans sometimes eat little more than corn, beans, and fruit. 
Many traditional foods in Guatemalan cuisine are based on Maya cuisine and prominently feature corn, chilies and beans as key ingredients. There are also foods that are commonly eaten on certain days of the week. Black and red tamales in Guatemala. There are reportedly hundreds of varieties of tamales throughout Guatemala. The key variations include the ingredients in the masa or dough (corn, potatoes, rice), in the filling (meat, fruits, nuts), and what it is wrapped with (leaves, husks).
Varieties of Guatemalan tamales [edit]. Black and red tamales in Guatemala. There are reportedly hundreds of varieties of tamales throughout Guatemala. The key variations include the ingredients in the masa or dough (corn, potatoes, rice), in the filling (meat, fruits, nuts), and what it is wrapped with (leaves, husks).
Fiambre is a traditional food from Guatemala eaten on November 1 and 2. Guatemala, like many other Catholic countries, celebrates the Day of the Dead (Dia día de Los) muertos and The All Saints (Day dia día De). los santos Black and red tamales in Guatemala. There are reportedly hundreds of varieties of tamales throughout Guatemala. The key variations include the ingredients in the masa or dough (corn, potatoes, rice), in the filling (meat, fruits, nuts), and what it is wrapped with (leaves, husks).
Fiambre is a traditional food from Guatemala eaten on November 1 and 2. Guatemala, like many other Catholic countries, celebrates the Day of the Dead (Dia día de Los) muertos and The All Saints (Day dia día De). Los'santos it s a chilled salad that may be made from over. 50 ingredients Black and red tamales in Guatemala. There are reportedly hundreds of varieties of tamales throughout Guatemala. The key variations include the ingredients in the masa or dough (corn, potatoes, rice), in the filling (meat, fruits, nuts), and what it is wrapped with (leaves, husks).