Best Answer: If the pomegranate white tea is real tea, and not a commercially sweetened and bottled product, then it can have many fine health benefits. Pomegranate is high in the beneficial antioxidants, and may well contribute with vitamins to the tea. White tea in itself is the healthiest tea there is, with three times as much antioxidants as green tea. So a white tea flavored with pomegranate could be both delicious and healthy
Green tea and pomegranate polyphenol antioxidants offer potential anti-aging benefits in conjunction with intermittent fasting, according to a study published in the April 2012 issue of the journal Biochimica et Biophysica Acta.. Pomegranate juice decreased arterial plaque formation and improved heart health in a study published in the July 2012 issue of Free Radical Biology and Medicine.. The participants were undergoing blood dialysis for chronic heart disease.
Heart Health. Pomegranates are good for the heart. The website Pomepure reports that drinking pomegranate juice and tea daily can prevent blood platelets from clumping together, the same response as if you were taking a daily aspirin. Pomegranates are rich in antioxidants, substances that help the body fight and prevent our cells from aging. According to the ACAI Health and Nutrition Resource Center, antioxidants, such as those found in pomegranates, are shown to boost the immune system, fight and lower the risk of cancer and prevent diabetes.
100% NATURAL INGREDIENTS: Green tea, chamomile, hibiscus flowers, orange peel, citric acid, pomegranate flavor, raspberry flavor and Japanese matcha. BREWING: To savor the full flavor of our teas, bring fresh water to a rolling boil. Pour hot water directly over the tea bag in a pre-heated pot or cup. 
Rated 5 out of 5 by dega5856 from Great taste! The only green tea I like and the only green tea I will drink. I am not a green tea fan but this flavor combination is great, you taste the cranberry pomegranate flavors. Date published: 2013-12-01. Rated 5 out of 5 by Carol from Hot or Cold no sugar keeps the Kidneys Happy This product helps curb that sugar graving.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If the pomegranate white tea is real tea, and not a commercially sweetened and bottled product, then it can have many fine health benefits. White tea is a delicate sort of tea that is well suited to adding flavor to, and pomegranate might give it a fresh, acidic note. Pomegranate is high in the beneficial antioxidants, and may well contribute with vitamins to the tea. White tea in itself is the healthiest tea there is, with three times as much antioxidants as green tea. So a white tea flavored with pomegranate could be both delicious and healthy
The pomegranate, a fruit native to the Middle Eastern parts of the world, is actually considered a berry. Behind its thick red rind that resembles an orange or grapefruit peel is a white, fleshy pulp filled with little red seeds or berries. Pomegranates are rich in antioxidants, substances that help the body fight and prevent our cells from aging. According to the ACAI Health and Nutrition Resource Center, antioxidants, such as those found in pomegranates, are shown to boost the immune system, fight and lower the risk of cancer and prevent diabetes.
Green tea and pomegranate might help forestall the aging process. Green tea, along with black and oolong teas, is made from the indigenous Chinese tea plant Camellia sinensis. Tea is consumed daily by much of the world's population. Pomegranate, a fruit native to Iraq, Iran and Pakistan, is now cultivated in many subtropical areas of the world. Green tea and pomegranate offer particular health benefits. Pomegranate juice decreased arterial plaque formation and improved heart health in a study published in the July 2012 issue of Free Radical Biology and Medicine.. The participants were undergoing blood dialysis for chronic heart disease.