Hemoglobin is present in red blood cells and is an essential chemical which carries oxygen from lungs to other parts of the body. It is metalloprotein having quarternary structure which contains iron and performs the important function of transporting oxygen via RBCs in blood in mammals as well as other animals. The name hemoglobin is made from the blend of heme and globin. Globin is the globular protein in which heme-an iron atom is embedded which is the main chemical binding oxygen. The common type of hemoglobin consists of four subunits: 1  Two alpha (α) subunits or globins.
Hemoglobin refers to a protein, found in red blood cells, that is responsible for carrying oxygen from the lungs to all other tissues of the body. Red blood cells circulate th … rough the lungs and the hemoglobin in these cells pick up (bind with) oxygen. About 70 percent of your body's iron is found in the red blood cells of your blood called hemoglobin.iron is a component of certain proteins, essential for respiration and energy metabolism so it is also a source of iron compound.
Answer   Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues … to the lungs. The iron contained in hemoglobin is responsible for the red color of blood.   Answer   your red blood count. Red blood cells circulate through the lungs and the hemoglobin in these cells pick up (bind with) oxygen. These cells carry the oxygen, in a form called oxyhemoglobin, out to the tissues and cells of the body.
Hemoglobin is an iron-protein compound in red blood cells that gives blood its red color. Hb is a conjugated protein present in RBCs. It carries oxygen from the lungs to the tissue cells, and carbondioxide-the gaseous waste-from the cells to the lungs. About 70 percent of your body's iron is found in the red blood cells of your blood called hemoglobin.iron is a component of certain proteins, essential for respiration and energy metabolism so it is also a source of iron compound.
Hemoglobin is the main protein in mature red blood cells. Each RBC contains over 600 million hemoglobin molecules. It is tetramer, that is, one molecule of hemoglobin in adult is composed of four globin chains, 2 alpha and 2 beta. These chains are derived from chromosome, mainly chromosome 16 and 11. Heme Structure of Hemoglobin.
Hemoglobin is also found outside red blood cells and their progenitor lines. Other cells that contain hemoglobin include the A9 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, macrophages, alveolar cells, and mesangial cells in the kidney. In these tissues, hemoglobin has a non-oxygen-carrying function as an antioxidant and a regulator of iron metabolism.
Answer   Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues … to the lungs. The iron contained in hemoglobin is responsible for the red color of blood.   Answer   your red blood count. About 70 percent of your body's iron is found in the red blood cells of your blood called hemoglobin.iron is a component of certain proteins, essential for respiration and energy metabolism so it is also a source of iron compound.
Hemoglobin in the blood carries oxygen from the respiratory organs (lungs or gills) to the rest of the body (i.e. the tissues). There it releases the oxygen to permit aerobic respiration to provide energy to power the functions of the organism in the process called metabolism. Other cells that contain hemoglobin include the A9 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, macrophages, alveolar cells, and mesangial cells in the kidney. In these tissues, hemoglobin has a non-oxygen-carrying function as an antioxidant and a regulator of iron
Hemoglobin refers to a protein, found in red blood cells, that is responsible for carrying oxygen from the lungs to all other tissues of the body. Red blood cells circulate through the lungs and the hemoglobin in these cells pick up (bind with) oxygen. These cells carry the oxygen, in a form called oxyhemoglobin, out to the tissues and cells of the body. Once at the proper destination, the oxy hemoglobin releases the oxygen and becomes hemoglobin again
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. Each globulin chain contains an important central structure called the heme molecule. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood.