Brazil Flat. The Cariris Brazil Flat, made of the most comfortable and long lasting rubber, will go perfectly with your outfit as you wear them. With the Brazilian flag on the strap you can strut down the sidewalk knowing your in style with these wholesale flip flops.
Most other flip flops on the market are made from EVA or PVC plastic, so they are hard on the feet, make feet sweat and can dry up and crack. But Cariris are made from rubber, so they bend and breathe. They work with you, not against you. Our Catalogue for South East Asia. 
Welcome to the Cariris Flip-Flops World. Since 1963 making many feet happy! The 2014 Cariris Collection recently launched has an incredible array of new screen prints, patterns and colors. It is being sold worldwide spreading like wild fire, becoming known by many as the new phenomenon in the flip-flop world. 
CARIRIS RUBBER FLIP-FLOPS-MADE IN BRAZIL - 100% Rubber. Lowest price guarantee at www.inbop.com. Looking for solid color flip-flops to embellish them? We got in flats, wedge and more... 
10 Facts about the World’s Best Rubber Flip-Flops: 100% RUBBER. The Cariris Flip-Flops are made of 100% RUBBER. Most sandals on the market today are made from different forms of plastic, foam(EVA) due to its cheaper price. ENDURANCE. The Cariris Flip-Flops will last at least 20 times longer when compared to other flip-flops in the market made of EVA or mixed eva & rubber formulas. The Cariris Flip-Flops are machine washable
FREE Flip-flops hangers upon request! Brazil Flat – Real Rubber flip-flops made in Brazil. The Cariris Flip-flops are Made in Brazil by INBOP since 1963. The distribution center in the US is located in Florida, sold through www.inbop.com or www.cariris.com. Here are some helpful Videos: 1  Tips on how to decorate, fix, reshape flip-flops straps. Sale! The Cariris Brazil Flat, made of the most comfortable and long lasting rubber, will go perfectly with your outfit as you wear them. With the Brazilian flag on the strap you can strut down the sidewalk knowing your in style with these wholesale flip flops.
Summary. Cariris is a brand of genuine rubber flip-flops (footwear). They are made in Brazil by the manufacturer INBOP who has been making rubber sandals since 1963. Severino Duarte started the business and still functions as the CEO. The Cariris Flip-flops are made in Brazil since 1963 by INBOP with a production in excess of 11.5 million yearly. - Lowest price: We guarantee the lowest price for the Cariris Flip-flops in the USA & Canada. - Shipping: Within 1 business day. - Minimum Order: 25 pairs of any style, size and color of your choice.
Welcome to INBOP-The Manufacturer of the CARIRIS FLIP-FLOPS, the world's finest rubber Flip-Flops. Our EXCLUSIVE distribution center is located in Florida. We specialize in high quality beach sandals since 1963. Our sandals are made only from the best materials. 