For other uses, see Fairy (disambiguation) . A fairy (also fay, fae, fair folk; from faery, faerie, realm of the fays ) is a type of mythical being or legendary creature in European folklore, a form of spirit, often described as metaphysical, supernatural, or preternatural. The concept of fairy in the narrow sense is unique to English folklore, conflating Germanic elves with influences from Celtic and Romance (French) folklores, and later made diminutive according to the tastes of Victorian era  fairy tales  for children.
1 Ikiryph-in Japanese lore, an evil spirit created by a person's bad thoughts and feelings. 2  Jack-in-irons-in English folklore, a tall ghost in chains that haunts the roads of Yorkshire. 3  Jack-o-lantern-in British lore, a wandering ghost seen as a light that, if followed, will cause a person to become lost. 1 Kere-in Greek folklore, the spirit of a dead person that bothers the living. 2  Knocker-in Cornwallish folklore, a spirit that dwells in mines and can either be a help or hindrance. 3  Kobold-in Germanic lore, a spirit that can be pesky or even malevolant.
1 Control-the spirit of someone who has died that acts as a go-between for a psychic medium and the spirit realm. 2  Dames blanches-in French folklore, female spirits that live near caves. 3  Deogen-in Belgian lore, a ghost whose shape is seen as a fog that haunts the Sonian Forest accompanied by lesser shadow ghosts. 1 Kere-in Greek folklore, the spirit of a dead person that bothers the living. 2  Knocker-in Cornwallish folklore, a spirit that dwells in mines and can either be a help or hindrance. 3  Kobold-in Germanic lore, a spirit that can be pesky or even malevolant.
The name poltergeist is derived from the German Polter (rumble) + Geist (spirit). Tuyul. Tuyul or toyol is a spirit in the mythology of South-East Asia that includes Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Singapore. A tuyul is a small child spirit invoked by a shaman or witch doctor from a dead human foetus. The Holy Ghost or Holy Spirit is the third person of the Holy Trinity: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The term Holy Ghost was used in the King James Version of the Bible and was the common name for the Holy Spirit in English before the 20th century.
1 Bhut-in Indian lore, usually an evil ghost of a dead man who died through tragedy or execution (aka bhoot). 2  Black shuck-in British lore, a large, black, spectral dog that portends death. 3  Bogey-in English folklore, evil spirits that travel alone or together to do mischief. 1 Kere-in Greek folklore, the spirit of a dead person that bothers the living. 2  Knocker-in Cornwallish folklore, a spirit that dwells in mines and can either be a help or hindrance. 3  Kobold-in Germanic lore, a spirit that can be pesky or even malevolant.
One of the most well-known aspects of Japanese folklore is the oni, which has traits of demons and ogres, usually depicted with red, blue, brown or black skin, two horns on its head, a wide mouth filled with fangs, and wearing nothing but a tigerskin loincloth. It often carries an iron kanabo or a giant sword. It carries the meanings of monster, ghost, or spirit, and the literal meaning is the spirit of a thing or strange thing. This word is used to blame any unexplainable event on, and both inanimate objects and spirits of humans and other creatures can be called mononoke.
List of Demons, Devils, Tricksters and other Evil Spirits. This section is a study in the world of perceptions of evil beings.. Throughout these pages, you'll find descriptions of different demons.. I realize that some of these demons can be considered gods or mythological beings. 
A demon is an evil spirit, or devil, in the ordinary English usage of the term. This definition is, however, only approximate. In polytheistic religions the line between gods and demons is a shifting one: there are both good demons and gods who do evil. 
1 Knocker-in Cornwallish folklore, a spirit that dwells in mines and can either be a help or hindrance. 2  Kobold-in Germanic lore, a spirit that can be pesky or even malevolant. 3  Konakijijii-in Japanese folklore, the ghost of a baby left for dead in a forest. 1 Kere-in Greek folklore, the spirit of a dead person that bothers the living. 2  Knocker-in Cornwallish folklore, a spirit that dwells in mines and can either be a help or hindrance. 3
In the Jerusalem Talmud notions of shedim (demons or evil spirits) are almost unknown or occur only very rarely. As opposed to this, in the Babylon Talmud there are many references to shedim (demons or evil spirits) and magical incantations. As referring to the existence or non-existence of shedim (Hebr. for demons, spirits) there are converse opinions in Judaism. There are practically nil roles assigned to demons in the Jewish Bible.