These are all third-party materials purchased by the rig builder and assembled onsite or at another location. The drilling equipment package is the largest equipment expenditure, and typically costs $20 to $70 million for jackups and $100 to $200 million for floaters (or on the order of 10 to 30% of total costs). Contracts for rig construction are denominated in US dollars, but costs at international shipyards may be in US dollars, euros, Chinese yuan, South Korean won, or Singaporean dollars.
The exploration was based on oil stains found. But the well turned out to be a dry hole with no oil. Little wonder then that oil drilling is risky and expensive. According to Arizona Geological Survey, Oil drilling in Arizona costs between $400,000 to $1,000,000, depending on the depth of the hole and its location. A rig capable of drilling most exploratory holes typically costs $8,000-15,000 per day. 
The price of oil rigs for land drilling in the United States typically starts at around $18 million to $20 million and goes up to around $25 million, but it can be nearly twice that amount depending on the specific rig purchased. International land rigs, designed to meet a wider range of specifications that vary from one country to another, generally range from $25 million to $40 million. The average cost for offshore rigs can be as much as 15 to 20 times greater than the average cost for land rigs. The least-expensive offshore rigs typically cost nearly $200 million. The average price for offshore oil-drilling rigs is approximately $650 million. The Brazilian energy company Petrobas, in a plan to replace leased U.S. and European rigs with its own fleet of offshore floating rigs, recently began producing offshore rigs estimated to cost up to $900 million each
Oil and natural gas prices, combined with full capacity world wide in the offshore rig market -- and competition for these fleets -- is hurting the back side of international oil companies, with drilling and production costs more than doubling in recent years. Expect $600,000 day rates to become more common. Last month, Brazilian Petrobras awarded Norway's SeaDrill with contracts for three deepwater rigs worth up to $4.1 billion, with day rates in excess of $600,000.
Swamp barge: 10 to 100 millions $ Jack up (shallow offshore) : 75 to 175 millions Semi submersible (deep offshore) : from 100 for an old one to 400 millions $ to build a new one Drillship: 300 to 500 millions $ to build a new one. This is to build or buy. I buy used offshore rigs for salvage. It is a very difficult business. You can purchase a 100 million dollar decommissioned rig for 3 million to 5 million cash. Now that is just the beginning.
Average costs vary widely between different types of oil rigs, starting at around $20 million and ranging as high as close to $1 billion. The cost of oil rigs and drilling equipment invariably represents a very large capital expenditure for an oil producer. International land rigs, designed to meet a wider range of specifications that vary from one country to another, generally range from $25 million to $40 million. The average cost for offshore rigs can be as much as 15 to 20 times greater than the average cost for land rigs. The least-expensive offshore rigs typically cost nearly $200 million. The average price for offshore oil-drilling rigs is approximately $650 million. The Brazilian energy company Petrobas, in a plan to replace leased U.S. and European rigs with its own fleet of offshore floating rigs, recently began producing offshore rigs estimated to cost up to $900 million each
In the aggregate, the top five drilling companies (Transocean, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Noble, SeaDrill, and Ensco International) operate about 95 deepwater rigs -- some out-of-service for repairs -- are making for an increasingly tough exploration environment, according to ODS-Petrodata. Expect $600,000 day rates to become more common. Last month, Brazilian Petrobras awarded Norway's SeaDrill with contracts for three deepwater rigs worth up to $4.1 billion, with day rates in excess of $600,000.
An oil platform, offshore platform, or (colloquially) oil rig is a large structure with facilities to drill wells, to extract and process oil and natural gas, or to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing. Jack-up Mobile Drilling Units (or jack-ups), as the name suggests, are rigs that can be jacked up above the sea using legs that can be lowered, much like jacks. These MODUs (Mobile Offshore Drilling Units) are typically used in water depths up to 120 metres (390 ft), although some designs can go to 170 m (560 ft) depth.
Then there is the original cost of the ship, which can be anywhere from $600 to close to $1 billion. These rigs usually last 30-35 years, which works out to a per-day cost of $59k (again, shows up as depreciation). Current day rates for these types of ships are running around $550k/day. This is the cost to the oil company to rent the ship from the owner, companies like Transocean or Noble Corporat