The Enterprise CAL Suite includes all of the components of the Core CAL Suite. This means customers interested in the components unique to the Enterprise CAL Suite do not need to license both the Core CAL Suite and the Enterprise CAL Suite. Customers can acquire the Enterprise CAL Suite upfront or as a step-up from the Core CAL Suite. This means the customer licensing the Enterprise CAL Suite is not required to also maintain a separate Core CAL Suite unlike the customer who is licensing the same products under individual licenses. All Enterprise CAL Suite components can be licensed independently from
Customers can get the In-Place Archive and In-Place Hold features through Exchange Online Archiving for Exchange Server, and they can get advanced security through Exchange Online Protection. All other premium features are only available in the Enterprise CAL or E-CAL Suite. 
Summary. Microsoft offers two Client Access License (CAL) Suites, the Microsoft Core CAL Suite and the Microsoft Enterprise CAL Suite, which provide access rights to a number of server products and online services. The Enterprise CAL Suite includes all of the components of the Core CAL Suite. This means customers interested in the components unique to the Enterprise CAL Suite do not need to license both the Core CAL Suite and the Enterprise CAL Suite. Customers can acquire the Enterprise CAL Suite upfront or as a step-up from the Core CAL Suite.
The Microsoft Enterprise CAL Suite provides an outstanding opportunity for customers to use their existing investments in the Microsoft core platform. Furthermore, the Microsoft Enterprise CAL Suite provides a significant cost savings compared to the purchase of individual CALs. Customers considering investments in just two of the products included in the suite will find that the economic value of the Microsoft Enterprise CAL Suite becomes compelling.
4 Summary Microsoft offers two Client Access License (CAL) Suites, the Microsoft Core CAL Suite and the Microsoft Enterprise CAL Suite, which provide access rights to a number of server products and online services. This means the customer licensing the Enterprise CAL Suite is not required to also maintain a separate Core CAL Suite unlike the customer who is licensing the same products under individual licenses. All Enterprise CAL Suite components can be licensed independently from the Enterprise CAL Suite.
Summary. The Microsoft Enterprise Client Access Licence (CAL) Suite brings together 11 of the latest Microsoft products to provide your people with the newest innovations in compliance, real-time collaboration, security, communication, desktop management, and more. 1  Overview. Furthermore, the Microsoft Enterprise CAL Suite provides a significant cost savings compared to the purchase of individual CALs. Customers considering investments in just two of the products included in the suite will find that the economic value of the Microsoft Enterprise CAL Suite becomes compelling.
A Client Access License (CAL) is a software license distributed by software companies to allow clients to connect to its server software and use the software's services. 
Note that many Core CAL components are “base CALs” while certain components of Enterprise CAL Suite are “additive CALs” for which base CALs are a prerequisite. For more information about base and additive CALs, refer to the Microsoft Volume Licensing Brief Base and Additive Client Access Licenses: An Explanation. This means the customer licensing the Enterprise CAL Suite is not required to also maintain a separate Core CAL Suite unlike the customer who is licensing the same products under individual licenses. All Enterprise CAL Suite components can be licensed independently from the Enterprise CAL Suite.
Core CAL/ BackOffice Server. BackOffice Server has been discontinued and licenses for BackOffice Server and BackOffice CALs are no longer available for purchase. A new client access license (CAL) suite is now available through volume licensing-the Core CAL. The Core CAL includes CALs for: The Core CAL offers a convenient way to license basic server components across desktop computers. In addition, it reduces the overall complexity of managing CALs for server software for IT professionals.
The Enterprise CAL Suite, a superset of the Core CAL Suite, adds Enterprise CALs for Exchange and SharePoint, giving clients the right to access the high-end capabilities of both products that are not licensed by their respective Standard CALs. Shown here are the licenses included in the Core and Enterprise CAL Suites, the new Core and Enterprise CAL Suite Bridges for Office 365, and the Office 365 E3 plan, the most comprehensive plan that will be available at launch later this year.