A Trilobite is a fossil. The fossilised remains of a type of animal  called an arthropod that lived in the sea between 521 and 250  million years ago. They are now extinct. …   They are called trilobites because their body shapes have 3  lobes. They looked a bot like woodlice.   I have made a link to a picture of a trilobite below. Scientists believe that trilobites reproduced sexually. These  prehistoric and extinct creatures were a type of arthropod that  probably laid eggs. Trilobites lived about 25 … 0
Trilobites make up one of the most fascinating and diverse groups in the fossil record. Over the course of their long history — which dates back to near the beginning of the Cambrian period, around 520 million years ago — they have inhabited a wide range of marine environments, from reefs to abyssal depths. 
Trilobites. The trilobites (Phylum Arthropoda, Class Trilobita) first appear in the fossil record in the Lower Cambrian some 540 million years ago. They persisted for the next 270 million years, always finding a way to survive as marine environments and predators challenged. 
Since there are so many types of trilobites, they came in a wide array of sizes. Some, such as the Perenopsis trilobites, grew to only a few millimeters in size, and look like flakes of pepper on a rock. The largest, Isotelus rex, from the Upper Ordovician of Manitoba, Canada grew over two feet in length. Age: Trilobites are one of the most successful animals to live on Earth. They were already here before the Cambrian explosion, survived numerous mass extinctions and lived until the end Permian extinction event, the end of the Paleozoic age.
Trilobites finally disappeared in the mass extinction at the end of the Permian about 250 million years ago. The trilobites were among the most successful of all early animals, roaming the oceans for over 270 million years. Trilobite fossils are found worldwide, with many thousands of known species. Because they appeared quickly in geological time, and moulted like other arthropods, trilobites serve as excellent index fossils, enabling geologists to date the age of the rocks in which they are found.
Trilobites had many life styles; some moved over the sea-bed as predators, scavengers or filter feeders and some swam, feeding on plankton. Most life styles expected of modern marine arthropods are seen in trilobites, with the possible exception of parasitism (where there are still scientific debates). Trilobite fossils are found worldwide, with many thousands of known species. Because they appeared quickly in geological time, and moulted like other arthropods, trilobites serve as excellent index fossils, enabling geologists to date the age of the rocks in which they are found.
Although some types of trilobites were blind, most had well developed eyes with very sophisticated lenses that had a great depth of field. Some species had eyes on stalks and these are believed to have buried themselves in the mud, with only their eyes sticking out like periscopes. Scientific name: Trilobita. Trilobites. Palaeontologists have identified more than 20,000 different trilobites, an amazingly diverse group of animals. They all lived in the sea: some burrowed in the mud, some crawled on the surface of the seabed and others swam about in open water or inhabited reefs.
The earliest trilobites known from the fossil record are fallotaspids, and redlichiids (both order Redlichiida) and bigotinids (order Ptychopariida, superfamily Ellipsocephaloidea) dated to some 540 to 520 million years ago. Trilobite fossils are found worldwide, with many thousands of known species. Because they appeared quickly in geological time, and moulted like other arthropods, trilobites serve as excellent index fossils, enabling geologists to date the age of the rocks in which they are found.
Trilobita is the most species-rich entirely extinct arthropod group. In trilobites, the hard exoskeleton covering the dorsal body surface and its well marked segmentation (for example, the jointed segments of the thorax) are classic arthropod features. Before the first trilobite with its legs fossilised was described in 1870, it was already well established that Trilobita belonged to the Arthropoda. Arthropods are the most species-rich animal phylum living today, and have been the most diverse group of multicellular animals since the Early Cambrian.
Trilobites are an extinct group of arthropods (jointed-legged animals) known from more than 10,000 fossil species. The group Trilobita existed from early in the Cambrian Period (520 million years ago) until the end of the Permian Period (250 million years ago). The name Trilobita is derived from the three (tri-) lobed structure of the exoskeleton, which has a raised central lobe (or axis) and a pair of side lobes, called pleurae. Before the first trilobite with its legs fossilised was described in 1870, it was already well established that Trilobita belonged to the Arthropoda. Arthropods are the most species-rich animal phylum living today, and have been the most diverse group of multicellular animals since the Early Cambrian.