Add turkey legs and boil for 30 minutes or until the turkey legs register 165 degrees F. Put turkey legs on the grill, season with House Seasoning and brush with honey. Grill over medium heat for about 15 minutes, rotating occasionally as needed. The turkey legs should be crispy and golden brown when done. 
Place turkey legs in pan. 9. Roast legs at 350 degrees for one hour and twenty minutes. CAUTION: Do not over bake and since ovens are different, start checking on the turkey leg temperature after one hour. Turkey temperature should be 175 degrees when you take it from the oven. 10. When ready, take turkey legs from oven and let rest 15 minutes to redistribute the juices. 11. Taste your broth. If it's to your liking, spoon on turkey legs. If not, add salt, pepper and a little butter and warm, then spoon over turkey legs.
Pour chicken broth into pan around the turkey legs. Roast for 1 hour and 30-40 minutes until meat thermometer registers 175 degrees F. Remove from oven, cover with foil, and let stand 10 minutes, then serve. You can serve whole legs, or slice the meat off the bones and serve it that way. 
If your turkey legs are not smoked or precooked, then you have to add some salt and sugar to warm water, allow the mixture to cool down to room temperature and then add the turkey legs to the mixture. Refrigerate the turkey legs in the water for twelve hours. Take the turkey legs and put them in the pan. The legs should not touch one another. If you are using large turkey legs, then you should cook two drumsticks at a time, not more. Cover the pan with the aluminum foil. Make sure the foil holds onto the pan firmly and that there is no leak or vent whatsoever.
Step 5. Place the turkey leg in the bottom of a baking dish or roasting pan and brush it all over with the olive oil and butter mixture. Season the turkey leg with sea or kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Step 8. Use a meat thermometer to test the internal teperature of the turkey leg. Remove the turkey leg from the oven. Allow the meat to rest on a serving plate for 10 minutes so that its natural juices can redistribute throughout the meat before serving.
1 Place the turkey legs in the mixture, and bring to a boil. 2  Cook 30 to 45 minutes, until the turkey has reached an internal temperature of 180 degrees F (80 degrees C). 3  Remove onion slices from the mixture, and arrange on the prepared grill. 
Turn them over and cook for another 45 minutes. Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the meat. They are ready when the internal temperature reaches 180ºF/82ºC. 1  To ensure that the turkey stays juicy, you can baste it every 20 minutes with a turkey baster or spoon. Cover the drumsticks with chicken broth. The liquid is necessary to flavor the turkey and help it cook evenly and slowly in the slow cooker. Fill up the slow cooker until the turkey legs are completely submerged. 1  For extra flavor, add a packet of onion soup mix to the pot. 2  Or add the following: 1 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon pepper, and 1 teaspoon garlic powder
Smear butter onto meat on both sides of the leg. 3. Sprinkle meat with poultry seasoning and salt & pepper. 4. Secure skin back over the leg. 5. Cover legs on both side with lemon or orange zests. 6. Place foil in the bottom of a long rectangular pan. If you wish, dice carrots and celery and add to pan. 7. Add chicken broth to pan. Turkey temperature should be 175 degrees when you take it from the oven. 10. When ready, take turkey legs from oven and let rest 15 minutes to redistribute the juices. 11. Taste your broth. If it's to your liking, spoon on turkey legs. If not, add salt, pepper and a little butter and warm, then spoon over