Osteomas are tumor growths that are most commonly found in children. Ablation procedures to remove an osteoma are typically done under local anesthetics or sedation, allowing patients to remain awake during the procedure. Osteoma tumors frequently occur on the bones of the hands. Osteomas may be present in the spine. Frequently, the tumors are fairly easy to remove, and most of these tumors occur on the thighbone or on the bones of the hand. A more serious version of the tumor can develop if an osteoma is present in the spinal column.
Forehead Osteoma Removal. Forehead osteomas are a relatively common and benign condition where a knob of normal bone forms under the skin. They can occur at birth, develop over many years or develop quickly. There is not distinct cause although I have seen it be hereditary. 
Background: Bony raised bumps on the forehead are not rare and are known as osteomas. They occur due to the development of normal bone under the periosteum of the non-hair bearing forehead. They are benign overgrowths of bone that are non-mobile. Large frontal osteomas that are more than just a bump on the forehead are rare. But they present differently due to their size and their association with other symptoms such as pain. A CT scan will show that the osteoma is more aggressive as it extends deeper into the skull bone and is a truly expansile bone lesion.
An osteoid osteoma is a benign (noncancerous) bone tumor that usually develops in the long bones of the body such as the femur (thighbone) and tibia (shinbone). Although osteoid osteomas can cause pain and discomfort, they do not spread throughout the body. 
Most benign osteomas involve only the outer portion of the skull and are not at risk for perforation deeper into the skull or brain. I always perform a CT scan to make sure that there is no unusual plunging or deep extension of the lesion. They can occur at birth, develop over many years or develop quickly. There is not distinct cause although I have seen it be hereditary. The bony knob can be single or multiple and can occur just about anywhere on the skull or face. Forehead osteomas frequently occur between the hairline and the eyebrows.
Forehead Osteomas and Their Treatment. Forehead osteomas are a relatively common and benign condition where a knob of normal bone forms under the skin. They can occur at birth, develop over many years or develop quickly. There is not distinct cause although I have seen it be hereditary. The bony knob can be single or multiple and can occur just about anywhere on the skull or face. Forehead osteomas frequently occur between the hairline and the eyebrows.
It is a benign tumor. When the bone tumor grows on other bone it is known as homoplastic osteoma; when it grows on other tissue it is called heteroplastic osteoma. Osteoma represents the most common benign neoplasm of the nose and paranasal sinuses. The cause of osteomata is uncertain, but commonly accepted theories propose embryologic, traumatic, or infectious causes. Osteomata are also found in Gardner's syndrome. 
An osteoma is a benign growth that is most commonly found in the skull when new bone grows on old bone or on tissue. When an osteoma grows on bone it is called a homoplastic osteoma and when it grows on tissue it is called a heteroplastic osteoma. The cause of osteoma is not known, but they have been linked to trauma and also to infection. Osteoma is also a symptom of Gardner’s syndrome.
Osteomas are the most common benign bony growth within the nasal passages and the sinuses. An osteoma is the focus of very dense bony deposit that might form within the paranasal sinuses. At the present time we do not know what causes osteomas to form, and what regulates their growth rate. Most osteomas of the paranasal sinuses are benign in presentation, and do not need any special care.
Introduction and Definition: Osteoma is a benign bony outgrowth of membranous bones. They are found mostly on skull and facial bones. Large osteomas may develop on the clavicle, pelvis, and tubular bones (parosteal osteomas). Soft tissue osteomas may occur in the head, eye,and tongue,or in the extremities. 