Report Abuse. A ribosome is an organelle in cells that assembles proteins. Ribosomes are composed of ribosomal RNA and ribosomal proteins (known as a Ribonucleoprotein or RNP). It translates Messenger RNA (mRNA) into a polypeptide chain (e.g., a protein). It can be thought of as a factory that builds a protein from a set of genetic instructions. Ribosomes can float freely in the cytoplasm (the internal fluid of the cell) or bind to the endoplasmic reticulum, or to the nuclear envelope.
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. The ribosomal subunits of prokaryotes and eukaryotes are quite similar. The unit of measurement is the Svedberg unit, a measure of the rate of sedimentation in centrifugation rather than size. This accounts for why fragment names do not add up: for example, prokaryotic 70S ribosomes are made of 50S and 30S subunits.
Its basic function is to make proteins. Amino acids bind to the ribosome and the ribosome binds them together, thus forming long chains of these amino acids and forming protei … ns. Ribosomes are so essential that they are present in organisms within all of the the 3 domains of taxonomy: bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. 
The subunits of ribosomes are produced in the nucleolus, which is located in the nucleus of the cell. Ribosomal proteins enter the nucleolus and combine with four rRNA strands to produce the two subunits. The subunits leave the nucleus through the nuclear pores and combine in the cytoplasm. It is so small that it is only visible with an electron microscope. Ribosomes are found in the cytoplasm of a cell. They are either free floating or bound to the endoplasmic reticulum. Groups of ribosomes stuck together are called polysomes. Most cells contain thousands of ribosomes, while a few specialized cells contain millions
Although ribosomes are called organelles, they don't have a membrane that holds the contents of the ribosome in one cohesive structure. Ribosomes are composed of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and protein. Sixty percent of the structure is rRNA and 40 percent is protein. There are two subunits: a large subunit and a small subunit. They are labeled as 60s and 40s after the Svedberg values. It is so small that it is only visible with an electron microscope. Ribosomes are found in the cytoplasm of a cell. They are either free floating or bound to the endoplasmic reticulum. Groups of ribosomes stuck together are called polysomes. Most cells contain thousands of ribosomes, while a few specialized cells contain million
Best Answer: ribosomes, basically, is the machinery that helps build proteins. Ribosomes are found outside the cell's nucleus and work with mRNA and tRNA to form protiens from amino acids. mRNA fits within the ribosome, and each codon (a set of three ribonucleic acids) code for a specific amino acid. The tRNA attaches the amino acid to the last on the chain and then leaves. Ribosomes read the information encoded in mRNA and translate it into proteins. They are the macromolecular complex that synthesizes all cellular proteins from the information encoded in the genes. They utilize tRNA molecules to help read the mRNA and transfer the amino acids into the synthetic process.
Ribosomes are organelles that synthesize proteins for the cell and send protein to the nucleus. Ribosomes can be free floating in the cytoplasm, or can be attached to the oute … r surfaces of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and are known as bound ribosomes. They use amino acids to create the protein when the nucleus sends out messenger RNA to tell the ribosomes to make the protein.
Ribosomes are either floating in the cytoplasm or attached to membranes. In general, free-floating ribosomes produce proteins that are used inside the cell, and membrane-attached ribosomes manufacture proteins for use outside the cell. Ribosomes can be free floating in the cytoplasm, or can be attached to the oute … r surfaces of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and are known as bound ribosomes. They use amino acids to create the protein when the nucleus sends out messenger RNA to tell the ribosomes to make the protein.
Ribosomes are organelles that synthesize proteins for the cell and send protein to the nucleus. Ribosomes can be free floating in the cytoplasm, or can be attached to the outer surfaces of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and are known as bound ribosomes. They use amino acids to create the protein when the nucleus sends out messenger RNA to tell the ribosomes to make the protein. Ribosomes can be free floating in the cytoplasm, or can be attached to the oute … 