Madelung's deformity is usually characterized by malformed wrists and wrist bones, accompanied by short stature and is often associated with Leri-Léri weill. Dyschondrosteosis it has only been recognized within the past hundred. years Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis is a pseudo autosomal dominant disorder which occurs more frequently in females and is due to a mutation, deletion or duplication of the SHOX gene. The SHOX gene plays a particularly important role in the growth and maturation of bones in the arms and legs.
Madelung disease is a rare benign entity clinically characterized by the presence of multiple and symmetric, non-encapsulated masses of fatty tissue, usually involving the neck and the upper region of the trunk. It should not be confused with the Madelung deformity of the wrist. Madelung disease is most commonly seen in the Mediterranean population with a male to female ratio of 15:1. The commonest age of onset is between the third and fifth decades.
Background. Madelung deformity (MD) of the wrist is characterized by a growth disturbance in the volar-ulnar distal radial physis that results in a volar and ulnar tilted distal radial articular surface, volar translation of the hand and wrist, and a dorsally prominent distal ulna.
Madelung disease: A disorder characterized by painless symmetrical diffuse deposits of fat beneath the skin of the neck, upper trunk, arms and legs. The condition is thought to be genetic although its exact mode of inheritance is uncertain; it may be a mitochondrial DNA disease. 
Madelung’s disease is characterized by massive deposits of fatty tumors (lipoma) located symmetrically around the neck, and on the shoulders, upper arms and upper trunk. These abnormal fat deposits may grow rapidly over the course of months or more slowly over a period of years. Related Disorders. Dercum disease. Dercum Disease is a rare disorder characterized by multiple, painful fatty deposits (lipomas), primarily on the trunk, forearms, and lower legs. It is associated with pain that may be caused by these deposits pressing on nearby nerves. This disorder usually occurs in obese females between the ages of 45 and 60
Madelung's disease is a disorder of fat metabolism (lipid storage) that results in an unusual accumulation of fat deposits around the neck and shoulder areas. Related Disorders. Dercum disease. Dercum Disease is a rare disorder characterized by multiple, painful fatty deposits (lipomas), primarily on the trunk, forearms, and lower legs. It is associated with pain that may be caused by these deposits pressing on nearby nerves. This disorder usually occurs in obese females between the ages of 45 and 60
General Discussion. Madelung's disease is a disorder of fat metabolism (lipid storage) that results in an unusual accumulation of fat deposits around the neck and shoulder areas. Adult alcoholic males are most often affected, although women and those who do not drink alcohol can also get Madelung's disease. It is possible that the title of this topic is not the name you selected. Please check the Synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and Disorder Subdivision(s) covered by this report. This disease entry is based upon medical information available through the date at the end of the topic.
Madelung's deformity is usually characterized by malformed wrists and wrist bones, accompanied by short stature and is often associated with Leri-Léri weill. dyschondrosteosis Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis is a pseudo autosomal dominant disorder which occurs more frequently in females and is due to a mutation, deletion or duplication of the SHOX gene. The SHOX gene plays a particularly important role in the growth and maturation of bones in the arms and legs.