Question and answer. Which of the following is considered a primary function of state government Select one of the options below as your answer: A. enforcement of laws regarding the public safety B. regulation of. political parties and the media C. supervision of federal government elected officials D. all of the above. Enforcement of laws regarding the public safety is considered a primary function of state government.
Under the Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, all powers not granted to the federal government are reserved for the states and the people. All state governments are modeled after the federal government and consist of three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial. The U.S. Constitution mandates that all states uphold a republican form of government, although the three-branch structure is not required. State & Local Government. Powers not granted to the federal government are reserved for states and the people, which are divided between state and local governments. Most Americans have more daily contact with their state and local governments than with the federal government.
The primary functions of a state, or government, are six in number.1. Foreign Relations-Diplomacy and Defense. 2. Incubate special research, business and development, such as small businesses, space research, job training, unemployment insurance and more. 3. Protect and regulate the sustainable use of natural resources. A state is a political unit in the United States that occupies a definite territory and has an organized government with the power to make laws and enforce those laws without … approval from any higher authority.
The primary functions of local governments are to provide services...such as schools, libraries, and police and fire departments. another function of local governments is to … provide and enforce laws. 40 people found this useful. In 1786 Shay's rebellion showed Americans that they needed a stronger national government. Many knew this would be necessary anyway because if America was going to be on the w … orld stage as a nation they would have to have a military and state department and so on.
A state government (provincial government in Canada) is the government of a country subdivision in a federal form of government, which shares political power with the federal or national government. Their governments, which are also provincial governments, are not the subject of this article. The United States and Australia are the main examples of federal systems in which the term state is used for the subnational components of the federation. In addition, the Canadian provinces fulfil a similar role.
The primary functions of local governments are to provide services...such as schools, libraries, and police and fire departments. another function of local governments is to … provide and enforce laws. 40 people found this useful. Answered. In History, Politics & Society. A state is a political unit in the United States that occupies a definite territory and has an organized government with the power to make laws and enforce those laws without … approval from any higher authority.
The U.S. Constitution is the supreme law of the land in the United States. It creates a federal system of government in which power is shared between the federal government and the state governments. 
Main article: State law (United States). See also: State governments of the United States. Under the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, all governmental powers not granted to the Federal government of the United States nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people. Their governments, which are also provincial governments, are not the subject of this article. The United States and Australia are the main examples of federal systems in which the term state is used for the subnational components of the federation. In addition, the Canadian provinces fulfil a similar role.
Any government in a federal republic, whether state, federal, or local has the function of preserving and upholding its constitution. For states, this would be the state constitution. 