A registered agent (or resident agent or statutory agent) is a person or company which the LLC designates in its formal filings with the state as a agent to receive certain types of notices and legal filings. 
Florida Registered Agent. A Florida Registered Agent is required when you form your LLC in Florida. They serve as a point of contact in case legal papers need to be sent to your LLC and the state of Florida has been unsuccessful in contacting you. Consider your Florida Registered Agent as an “emergency contact.”. 
A registered agent receives important legal and tax documents on behalf of a business -- corporation or LLC. They also can receive services of process (SOP) when a business entity is a party in a legal action, like a lawsuit or summons. 
The registered agent's address may also be where the state sends the paperwork for the periodic renewal of the business entity's charter (if required). The registered agent for a business entity may be an officer or employee of the company, or a third party, such as the organization's lawyer or a service company. Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a company negatively. For the role of process agent in the UK, see Process agent. In United States business law, a registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process (SOP) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons.
A registered agent is an individual or entity designated by a Corporation or Limited Liability Company to accept official documents on behalf of the corporation. Most states require businesses to maintain a registered agent in the formation state, individual, or entity designated by your corporation or LLC, to accept legal and official documents on behalf of your business.
The registered agent of an LLC is responsible for keeping the company's articles of organization and operating agreement. These documents must be kept at the registered agent's address listed in the LLC's articles of organization. LLCs must provide a forwarding address to the company's registered agent. An LLCs registered agent may be a person or a business. If an LLC selects a person as its registered agent, the individual must be at least 18 years of age. If a business is selected as an LLC's registered agent, the company must be authorized to conduct business transactions in the state where the LLC is organized. In addition, a third-party company may be hired to provide registered agent services to an LLC
A registered office is the business office address of the registered agent and may be the same as the entity’s place of business. It cannot, however, be a post office box that is part of a commercial mail or message service unless that commercial enterprise is the registered agent. 
When incorporating a business or registering an existing company to transact business in any state (also called foreign qualification), you are required to have a registered agent in the state of incorporation or qualification. The term registered agent is one that most new business owners have never heard. 1 In states that do not require a company’s legal address the formation or qualification documents, the registered agent’s address is the only address on file with the state for that company. 2  Acting as a registered agent. 3  Individuals can act as a registered agent for a business.