It is the airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms. Helps with air flow. The Trachea, more commonly known to be the Wind pipe basically serves as a pathway to your lungs. The air we breath passes through here and to the lungs for oxygenation. The trachea is what is also known as the windpipe.
The trachea, also known as windpipe, is a strong muscular tube located in front of the esophagus. It connects the nose and mouth to the lungs. It is an important part of the respiratory system. At the lower end, it splits into the left and right bronchi that enter in
The trachea (or windpipe) is a wide, hollow tube that connects the larynx (or voice box) to the bronchi of the lungs. It is an integral part of the body’s airway and has the vital function of providing air flow to and from the lungs for respiration.
The trachea is part of you resportory system and is used to breathe to get air into your lungs. It is just a fancy way of saying yo windpipe! It provides part of the open passageway through which air can reach the lungs from the outside. the trachea is the tube that connects your mouth to your lungs. It is also known as your windpipe. You can feel it if you touch the front of your throat. It looks similar to a vaccum cleaner hose in that it has ridges. These ridges keep the shape of the thrachea as you breath since there is air moving in and out of it.
5. Trachea. The trachea is a cartilage tube and represents the initial part of the lower respiratory tract. It connects the pharynx and larynx to the lungs and allows normal passage of the air to and from the lungs. This tube is approximately 3.9 to 6.3 inches long and its inner diameter is around 0.83 to 1.1 inches.
The trachea, commonly known as the windpipe, is a tube about 4 inches long and less than an inch in diameter in most people. The trachea begins just under the larynx (voice box) and runs down behind the breastbone (sternum). The trachea then divides into two smaller tubes called bronchi: one bronchus for each lung.