See also Warning section. Promethazine is used to prevent and treat nausea and vomiting related to certain conditions (such as before/after surgery, motion sickness). It is also used to treat allergy symptoms such as rash, itching, and runny nose. See also Warning section. Before taking promethazine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to any other phenothiazines (such as prochlorperazine); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Promethazine is a neuroleptic medication and first-generation antihistamine of the phenothiazine family. The drug has strong sedative and weak antipsychotic effects. It also reduces motion sickness and has antiemetic and anticholinergic properties. In some countries it is prescribed for insomnia when benzodiazepines are contraindicated. It is available in many countries under many brand names.
Instead, they prevent histamine from binding and stimulating the cells. Promethazine also blocks the action of acetylcholine (anticholinergic effect), and this may explain its benefit in reducing the nausea of motion sickness. It is used as a sedative because it causes drowsiness as a side effect. The FDA approved promethazine in 1951. PRESCRIBED FOR: Promethazine is prescribed for treating nausea or vomiting, motion sickness, and allergic reactions and for sedation prior to or after surgery.
Antihistamines such as promethazine compete with histamine for one of the receptors for histamine (the H1 receptor) on cells; however, when antihistamines bind to the receptors they do not stimulate the cells. Instead, they prevent histamine from binding and stimulating the cells. Promethazine also blocks the action of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter that nerves use to communicate with one another, on its receptors (anticholinergic effect), and this may explain its benefit in reducing the nausea of motion sickness. It is used as a sedative because it causes drowsiness as a side effect. 
Diana Levine, a woman suffering from a migraine, was administered Wyeth 's Phenergan via IV push. The drug was injected improperly, resulting in gangrene and subsequent amputation of her right forearm below the elbow. It also reduces motion sickness and has antiemetic and anticholinergic properties. In some countries it is prescribed for insomnia when benzodiazepines are contraindicated. It is available in many countries under many brand names.
It is a sedating antihistamine that belongs to a group of medications known as phenothiazines. Brand-name Phenergan tablets, syrup, and suppositories were once made by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc. but are no longer being manufactured. Brand-name Phenergan injection is made by Baxter Healthcare Corporation. Generic versions are made by various manufacturers. Generic Phenergan products come in the form of tablets, rectal suppositories, syrup, and an injection, and are made by a number of different drug companies.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Each tablet of Phenergan contains 12.5 mg, 25 mg, or 50 mg promethazine HCl. The inactive ingredients present are lactose, magnesium stearate, and methylcellulose. Each dosage strength also contains the following: 12.5 mg-FD&C Yellow 6 and saccharin sodium; 25 mg-saccharin sodium; 50 mg-FD&C Red 40.
Each rectal suppository of Phenergan contains 12.5 mg, 25 mg, or 50 mg promethazine HCl with ascorbyl palmitate, silicon dioxide, white wax, and cocoa butter. Phenergan (promethazine) Suppositories are for rectal administration only. Each tablet of Phenergan contains 12.5 mg, 25 mg, or 50 mg promethazine HCl. The inactive ingredients present are lactose, magnesium stearate, and methylcellulose. Each dosage strength also contains the following: 12.5 mg-FD&C Yellow 6 and saccharin sodium; 25 mg-saccharin sodium; 50 mg-FD&C Red 40.
1 To combat moderate to severe morning sickness and hyperemesis gravidarum: In the UK, promethazine is drug of first choice, being preferred as an older drug with which there is a greater experience of use in pregnancy (second in line being metoclopramide or prochlorperazine). It also reduces motion sickness and has antiemetic and anticholinergic properties. In some countries it is prescribed for insomnia when benzodiazepines are contraindicated. It is available in many countries under many brand names.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Promethazine is a phenothiazine in the same drug class as chlorpromazine (Thorazine) and trifluoperazine (Stelazine). However, unlike the other drugs in this class, promethazine is not used as an anti-psychotic. It used as an anti-histamine, sedative, and antiemetic (anti-nausea). The FDA approved promethazine in 1951. PRESCRIBED FOR: Promethazine is prescribed for treating nausea or vomiting, motion sickness, and allergic reactions and for sedation prior to or after surgery.