NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage (40°F). Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
1 How long does egg salad last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; egg salad should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 
Best Answer. Dump it. I never keep uncooked chicken in the fridge more than 2 days and cooked more than 3 days. Chicken salad stored tight maybe 4.. Best Answer. don't give it to the cat because the cat most probably is not into chicken salad. Best Answer. No. I wouldn't do that to my cat. He only eats dry food anyway
Eating leftovers saves time and money, but food spoils if you leave it in the refrigerator too long. In general, refrigerated chicken leftovers are safe to eat for three to four days. However, proper storage and handling of leftover food is necessary to prevent dangerous bacterial growth. Leftover cooked chicken, fried chicken and restaurant or convenience store chicken keeps in a freezer for about four months. Use frozen chicken broth or gravy within two to three months, and eat frozen chicken casserole or soup within four to six months.
Refrigerated Leftovers. Cooked chicken, chicken broth, fried chicken, chicken soup, chicken casseroles and cooked chicken leftovers from a restaurant or convenience store can be safely refrigerated for three to four days, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. Leftover cooked chicken, fried chicken and restaurant or convenience store chicken keeps in a freezer for about four months. Use frozen chicken broth or gravy within two to three months, and eat frozen chicken casserole or soup within four to six months.
Chicken salad can last in the refrigerator for three to five days  after it is prepared. It is not recommended this food be frozen. Commercially prepared mayo is very stable and safe. It's the other things in the salad that you ha … ve to watch out for. The salads should be unrefrigerated for no more than 2 hours. Less if the ambient temperature is quite warm.
Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
How long can chicken soup go unrefrigerated? You should refrigerate chicken soup within 2 hours of cooking it.  If you keep it in a covered container, the soup should stay fresh  in the fridge for 3-4 days. It can be s … tored in the freezer for 4-6  months. Robin Harris. Commercially prepared mayo is very stable and safe. It's the other things in the salad that you ha … ve to watch out for. The salads should be unrefrigerated for no more than 2 hours. Less if the ambient temperature is quite warm.
1 How long does chicken salad last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken salad should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 