The dingo's habitat ranges from deserts to grasslands and the edges of forests. Dingoes will normally make their dens in deserted rabbit holes and hollow logs close to an essential supply of water. The dingo is suspected to have caused the extinction of the thylacine, the Tasmanian devil and the Tasmanian nativehen from mainland Australia, since a correlation in space and time is found between the arrival of the dingo and the extinctions of these species.
The dingo has physical characteristics that are quite different to the domestic dog. The dingo is equipped with strong jaws, a large head, alert, almond-shaped eyes, erect ears, narrow chest and shoulders, a proportionate body and a bottle-shaped tail for balance. In all, the characteristics for a successful hunter.
From harsh deserts to lush rainforests, the highly adaptable dingo is found in every habitat and state of Australia except Tasmania. Dingoes favour edges of forests next to grasslands. In deserts, access to drinking water determines where the animal can live. Dingoes hold a significant place in the spiritual and cultural practices of some Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. As an iconic Australian species, the chance to observe a dingo in its natural habitat is also considered an exciting opportunity and privilege.
Australia’s Wild dog, the Dingo can be found in any state of Australia except for Tasmania. They live in deserts, mountains forests but usually in inhabit areas where they are close to water sources and areas with small populations of people. Structural adaptations: 
Dingoes are found through most of mainland Australia, but are absent from Tasmania. Dingoes are found in all habitat types ranging from alpine, woodland, grassland, desert and tropical regions. There are many different cross breeds of Dingo/dog so it is very common to see Dingo-like dogs even in suburbia. Truly pure Dingoes are extremely rare. Dingoes are Australia's wild dog. They arrived in Australia about 5,000 years ago-brought to Australian shores by Indonesian Seafarers. Dingoes do not bark, but howl like wolves. (Canis lupus dingo). The Dingo is a medium sized dog weighing between 13-24kg, with males usually heavier than the females.
Animal Species: Dingo. The Dingo is Australia's wild dog. It was probably introduced to Australia by Asian seafarers about 4,000 years ago. Its origins have been traced back to a south Asian variety of Grey Wolf (Canis lupus lupus). Its dog-like appearance with a relatively broad head and erect ears, makes the Dingo Australia's largest mammal carnivore. With canine teeth longer than those of a domestic dog, the dingo's muzzle is also longer and tapered. Shoulder height: 440-620mm, Body length: 860-1230mm, Tail: 260-380mm, Body mass: 12-24kg.
Dingoes and wild dog hybrids are found throughout the continent of Australia, with. the exception of Tasmania. Habitat includes alpine, woodland, grassland, desert and coastal habitats. The dingo is a much closer cousin to the original wolf that roamed Eurasia about a million years ago than the modern domestic dog. The dingo arrived in Australia about 5,000 years ago from the Asian mainland. The dingo is equipped with strong jaws, a large head, alert, almond-shaped eyes, erect ears, narrow chest and shoulders, a proportionate body and a bottle-shaped tail for balance. In all, the characteristics for a successful hunter.
Mammal. The dingo is a wild dog, thought by scientists to be the descendent of a domestic dog brought to Australia five thousand years ago from what is now Indonesia. Dingoes are the largest land-dwelling carnivores in Australia. When hunting, they only kill enough to feed their packs. 
Its exact ancestry is debated, but dingoes are generally believed to be descended from semi-domesticated dogs from East or South Asia, which returned to a wild lifestyle when introduced to Australia. As such, it is currently classified as a subspecies of the grey wolf, Canis lupus. The dingo is suspected to have caused the extinction of the thylacine, the Tasmanian devil and the Tasmanian nativehen from mainland Australia, since a correlation in space and time is found between the arrival of the dingo and the extinctions of these species.