The Constitutional Powers of Government The Constitution delegates certain powers to the national government and the states retain all other powers. Each branch of the federal government has some power to limit the actions of the other two branches. In 1824, in Gibbons v. Ogden, the Supreme Court held that commerce within the states could also be regulated by the federal government as long as the commerce concerned more than one state. In 1995, the Supreme Court held for the first time, in U.S. v. Lopez, that there was a limit to the reach of the commerce clause.
For example, the U.S. Supreme Court expanded the powers of the federal government when it construed federal powers to include those “necessary and proper” to effect the legislation passed by Congress. McCulloch v. Maryland, 17 U.S. 316 (1819). Primary tabs. Federalism is a system of government in which the same territory is controlled by two levels of government. Generally, an overarching national government governs issues that affect the entire country, and smaller subdivisions govern issues of local concern.
Article II of the Constitution establishes the presidency and the executive branch of government. The powers of the President are not as clearly enumerated as those of the Congress. He is vested with the executive power by section 1. Specific provisions of the Constitution protect the rights of the individual from interference by the federal and state governments. The first ten amendments, called the Bill of Rights, were ratified in 1791, providing a check on the new federal
Although, for all practical purposes (as proved by the fact of the U.S. Civil War), the federal government does not actually govern by the consent of the states, some of the more important powers reserved by the states to themselves in the Constitution are: 
Local Government Authority. The Constitution of the United States does not mention local governments. Instead, the Tenth Amendment reserved authority-giving powers to the states. It is not surprising, then, that there is a great diversity in state-local relations between, as well as within, states. 
Tenth Amendment. In this 1789 draft of the Bill of Rights, the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution appears as Article the Twelfth, reserving to the states or to the people powers not delegated to the federal government. The Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads: The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States, respectively, or to the people.
Constitution. For example, a state constitution cannot deny accused criminals the right to a trial by jury, as assured by the U.S. Constitution's 6th Amendment. Under the U.S. Constitution, both the national and state governments are granted certain exclusive powers and share other powers. Exclusive Powers of the National Government. Under the Constitution, powers reserved to the national government include: 1  Print money (bills and coins)
1 Exercise powers neither delegated to the national government or prohibited from the states by the U.S.Constitution (For example, setting legal drinking and smoking ages.). Under the U.S. Constitution, both the national and state governments are granted certain exclusive powers and share other powers. Exclusive Powers of the National Government. Under the Constitution, powers reserved to the national government include:
Known as police powers, such authority is reserved to the states under the Tenth Amendment. Conversely, no state may enter into a treaty with a foreign government because such agreements are prohibited by the plain language of Article I to the Constitution. The Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads: The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States, respectively, or to the people.