The seven continents are: North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia/Oceania, and Antarctica. The United States is located on the continent of North America. Oceans make up most of the world's surface area.
AFRICA itself is a continent. It is actually one the largest in the world. it contains create natural resources. e.g Botswana which is located in the southern part exports diamond, south Africa (a country on its on) has gold and Nigeria has oil. Africa is also one of the most beautiful places ever.
Africa is the second largest and the second most populous continent of the world. This is the continent of wonder and the place for evolution of human history. Africa is a continent with diverse culture, uncountable languages and immense natural resources.
Africa is the world's second-largest and second-most-populous continent. At about 30.2 million km 2 (11.7 million sq mi) including adjacent islands, it covers six percent of Earth 's total surface area and 20.4 percent of its total land area.
Africa is a continent with 54 different countries that it supports. The largest black continent in the world and home to more than 1 billion people in the world hence 1 in 7 of any human on earth is an African.
Africa, known for safaris, wild animals, and the extreme poverty, is the second largest continent of the 7 continents in the world. It is rich in history, language, culture, and geographic diversity. Africa plays host to some of the most incredible deserts, mountains, animals, reptiles, birds, insects on planet earth.
Africa, the Americas, Antarctica, Asia, Australia together with Oceania, and Europe are considered to be Continents. The term continent is used to differentiate between the various large areas of the earth into which all the land surface of Earth is divided.
Africa is the name of the continent! Africa is the second largest continent with the second largest population and the most diverse wildlife in the entire world. Unless you me … ant Countries of Africa.