A Juggalo (male or female) or Juggalette (more commonly used for a female) is a member of the group that has grown up around the fanbase of the Michigan rap/horrorcore group Insane Clown Posse (ICP), and related recording artists at Psychopathic Records.
The Gathering of the Juggalos (The Gathering or GOTJ) is an annual festival put on by Psychopathic Records, featuring performances by the entire label as well as numerous well-known musical groups and underground artists. It was founded by Robert Bruce, Insane Clown Posse, and their label in 2000.
Juggalo (feminine Juggalette, or Juggala in Spanish speaking countries) is a name given to fans of the group Insane Clown Posse or any other Psychopathic Records hip hop group. Juggalos have developed their own idioms, slang and characteristics.
The Juggalos, a subculture of fans devoted to the music group Insane Clown Posse, announced Wednesday that they are suing the government for violating...
A Juggalo is part of the fan base led by Detroit, MI rap group Insane Clown Posse (ICP) and related recording artists at Psychopathic Records, the label founded by ICP members Violent J and Shaggy 2 Dope.
Claim that you don't have to like ICP, or even psychopathic records to be a juggalo. This statement, in and of itself, is absolutely moronic. Since ICP coined the term juggalo to refer to their fans, I doubt that die-hard Shania Twain fans are going to be calling themselves juggalos anytime soon.
20 Words related to juggalo. 1  icp. 2  juggalette. 3  insane clown posse. 4  juggalos. 5  twiztid. 6  faygo. 7  clown. 8  ninja. 9  dark carnival. 10  psychopathic records. 11  family. 12  psychopathic. 13  violent j. 14  juggalettes. 15  hatchet. 16  shaggy 2 dope. 17  insane. 18  dark lotus. 19  hatchetman. 20  juggalo/
juggalo. For the most part, an uneducated, pathetic excuse for a human being who listens to the group ICP who are bold enough to actually consider themselves musicians. People you see wearing hatchet-man accesories. They should not be allowed to reproduce, because that is too cruel to future generations.