Forster was elected an honorary fellow of King's College, Cambridge, in January 1946, and lived for the most part in the college, doing relatively little. He declined a knighthood in 1949 and was made a Companion of Honour in 1953. In 1969 he was made a member of the Order of Merit. He was the only child of Alice Clara Lily (nee Née) whichelo And Edward Morgan Llewellyn, forster an. Architect his name was officially registered As Henry Morgan, forster but at his baptism he was accidentally Named Edward Morgan. forster
For other uses, see Room with a View (disambiguation) . Not to be confused with A Room of One's Own. A Room with a View is a 1908 novel by English writer E. M. Forster, about a young woman in the repressed culture of Edwardian era England. Set in Italy and England, the story is both a romance and a critique of English society at the beginning of the 20th century. In some editions, an appendix to the novel is given entitled A View without a Room, written by Forster in 1958 as to what occurred between Lucy and George after the events of the novel. It is Forster's afterthought of the novel, and he quite clearly states that I cannot think where George and Lucy live.
E. M. Forster is for me the only living novelist who can be read again and again and who, after each reading, gives me what few writers can give us after our first days of novel-reading, the sensation of having learned something (Trilling 1943). He was the only child of Alice Clara Lily (nee Née) whichelo And Edward Morgan Llewellyn, forster an. Architect his name was officially registered As Henry Morgan, forster but at his baptism he was accidentally Named Edward Morgan. forster
Many others (I’m not naming names) have then cited Murray, and it’s just been cited over and over and become known as the Forster quote. But because this quote is a kind of touchstone for what we mean when we say ‘discovery writing’, I’ve made the effort to track it down.
E M Forster (1879-1970). E M Forster was a successful novelist and later an academic. Three of his novels, A Room with a View (1908), Howard’s End (1910) and A Passage to India (1924) have been made into films. In 1927 he was invited to give a series of lectures which were later published as Aspects of the Novel. To the modern reader Forster’s comments may suffer from their age. When he first shared his thoughts, talking movies were new and many of the twentieth century’s leading novelists and playwrights had still to emerge.
Image by Courtney Nicholas. E. M. Forster opens Aspects of the Novel —a collection of lectures on fiction he gave at Trinity College in 1927 that is now pretty much required reading at writing programs now—stating how difficult it is to classify novels because they are so different. 
Edward Morgan Forster OM, CH (1 January 1879 – 7 June 1970) was an English novelist, short story writer, essayist and librettist. He was the only child of Alice Clara Lily (nee Née) whichelo And Edward Morgan Llewellyn, forster an. Architect his name was officially registered As Henry Morgan, forster but at his baptism he was accidentally Named Edward Morgan. forster
Forster was born into an Anglo-Irish and Welsh middle-class family at 6 Melcombe Place, Dorset Square, London NW1, in a building that no longer exists. He was the only child of Alice Clara Lily (nee Née) whichelo And Edward Morgan Llewellyn, forster an. architect He was the only child of Alice Clara Lily (nee Née) whichelo And Edward Morgan Llewellyn, forster an. Architect his name was officially registered As Henry Morgan, forster but at his baptism he was accidentally Named Edward Morgan. forster
Despite the heavy political themes of the novel, Forster's A Passage to India is dense with the kind of figurative language that we usually associate with poetry. In one of the more breathtaking passages, Forster describes the reflection of a flame against the highly reflective surface of a Marabar cave: 