New York Weather. Watkins Glen, NY climate is mild during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 60's and very cold during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 20's. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be moderate during summer with a difference that can reach 24 degrees Fahrenheit, and fairly limited during winter with an average difference of 19 degrees Fahrenheit.
The highest average temperature in Watkins Glen is July at 69.3 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Watkins Glen is February at 25.4 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Watkins Glen occurs in August with 4.3 inches. The Watkins Glen weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The Watkins Glen, NY air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Watkins Glen, NY air quality index is 29.8% less than the New York average and 39.7% less than the national average.
15.57 mph. U.S. 16.93 mph. * The temperature, snow fall, and precipitation information on this page were calculated from the historical data of 18,000+ U.S weather stations for the period of time from 1980 to 2010. They were calculated based on the average temperate and duration of the hot and cold days for the area. Please note, the actual heating cost and cooling cost are also dependent on other factors specific to individual residences such as the size of the house, the insulation condition, and the equipment efficiency, etc.
Cold Front to bring colder temperatures to much of the Plains and Midwest. A strong cold front is expected to push through the Plains Thursday morning and through the Midwest by Thursday night. Freeze warnings and frost advisories are in effect for portions of the Central Plains while critical fire weather conditions will be possible from Wyoming to South Dakota, Iowa and southwest Minnesota. A chance of rain and snow showers between 8am and 2pm, then a chance of rain showers after 2pm. Mostly sunny, with a high near 45. Chance of precipitation is 30%.
Watkins Glen, New York, gets 34 inches of rain per year. The US average is 37. Snowfall is 48 inches. The average US city gets 25 inches of snow per year. The number of days with any measurable precipitation is 93. On average, there are 159 sunny days per year in Watkins Glen, New York. The July high is around 81 degrees. The January low is 15. Our comfort index, which is based on humidity during the hot months, is a 53 out of 100, where higher is more comfortable. The US average on the comfort index is 44.
Watkins Glen, NY Weather. Watkins Glen, NY climate is mild during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 60's and very cold during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 20's. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be moderate during summer with a difference that can reach 24 degrees Fahrenheit, and fairly limited during winter with an average difference of 19 degrees Fahrenheit.
Most / Least Educated Cities in NY. The average temperature of Watkins Glen is 47.04°F, which is lower than the New York average temperature of 48.17°F and is much lower than the national average temperature of 54.45°F. They were calculated based on the average temperate and duration of the hot and cold days for the area. Please note, the actual heating cost and cooling cost are also dependent on other factors specific to individual residences such as the size of the house, the insulation condition, and the equipment efficiency, etc.
Flooding Rains Continue in Parts of the Southeast. Excessive rainfall will continue Saturday into Saturday night across a large part of the southeastern U.S. Additional rainfall accumulations of 5 to 10 inches, with locally higher amounts, can be expected in much of South Carolina and parts of surrounding states. 