Many Theories, No Proof. Dinosaurs roamed the earth for 160 million years until their sudden demise some 65.5 million years ago, in an event now known as the Cretaceous-Tertiary, or K-T, extinction event. The Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction event, or the K-T event, is the name given to the die-off of the dinosaurs and other species that took place some 65.5 million years ago.
The Mesozoic began 245 million years ago and ended 64.6 or 65 million years ago. Contrary to what most people believe, dinosaurs didn't become extinct just by a meteor impact, there are more reasons: -A change in the polarity of Earth's magnetic field-Multiple meteor impacts. 
Dinosaurs lived between 230 and 65 million years ago, in a time known as the Mesozoic Era. This was many millions of years before the first modern humans, Homo sapiens, appeared. Scientists divide the Mesozoic Era into three periods: the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous. 
Answer: Dinosaurs lived on Earth for over 160 million years, from the late Triassic period (about 230 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous period (about 65 mill … ion years ago). At the end of the Cretaceous an extinction event caused the death of most dinosaur species. Dinosaurs were extinct 65 million years ago. Dinosaurs were on Earth for 180 million years, but dinosaurs are still here but as birds.
While non-avian dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago, birds, which scientists now classify as dinosaurs, live on to this day and were certainly around 100 … years ago. Dinosaurs were extinct 65 million years ago. Dinosaurs were on Earth for 180 million years, but dinosaurs are still here but as birds.
We have viewed the evidence and have decided to present our own theory. Dinosaur Extinction: The Premise Dinosaur extinction -- Most scientists believe that dinosaurs went extinct about 50 to 65 million years ago. Most scientists agree that man’s conception of dinosaurs has been limited to the past 180 years or so (the word itself wasn’t even coined until 1841). 
The K-T extinction was not the first such massive die-off in history, nor was it the largest. The Permian-Triassic extinction event, known as the Great Dying, occurred 251.4 million years ago and eradicated 96 percent of all marine species and 70 percent of all terrestrial vertebrates species on earth. The Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction event, or the K-T event, is the name given to the die-off of the dinosaurs and other species that took place some 65.5 million years ago.
The Bible teaches that God made the heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them in the six days of creation. That answers the question as to how long the dinosaurs have been on this earth. They did not appear on this earth 225 million years ago and then die out some 65 million years ago. God created them during the same week He created all the other animals, and the same week that He created man. The dinosaurs were evidently created on the fifth and sixth days. They believe that dinosaurs disappeared from the earth some 65 million years ago, long before man came along. They make these statements as if it were a known, proven scientific fact that dinosaurs were long gone by the time men appeared on the earth.
Answer: Dinosaurs lived on Earth for over 160 million years, from the late Triassic period (about 230 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous period (about 65 mill … ion years ago). At the end of the Cretaceous an extinction event caused the death of most dinosaur species. They lasted for over 160 million years until they became extinct as a result of the Earth being struck by a meteor about 65 million years ago..