Ratchet Girl Anthem is a video created to show some women that the way that they carry themselves isn't always cute. Ratchet Girl Anthem-The Single w/ Lyrics in The Description. Now Available on iTunes-http://bit.ly/GI9hj9. epHudson Store-http://store.ephudson.com/. Lyrics: 
One of Beyonce’beyoncé s skills is-trend, spotting and indeed ratchet has been all over popular culture in the past. YEAR Ll Cool j released a single “ Named ” ratchet Last, november using the word as an adjective to describe a woman who is only after a’man s. money While she recognizes that the expression, when used to describe a person, is often pejorative, she has also sees women embracing “ratchet … as an attempt to de-pathologize it” and to celebrate both its edginess and its roots in the southern working class.
No Tabs. The meaning of the slang word 'Ratchet' is subjective. Ratchet has been used by many artists in their songs, and the meaning tends to differ from artist to artist. It’s mostly used in the hip hop culture, some have used ‘ratchet’ as a positive word, and others as a defamatory word. The word is often mistaken as coming from the word ‘wretched’ which means someone who’s miserable and has poor character. Though different artists put different meaning behind the word ratchet in their songs, majority of the public uses the word in more of a defamatory way to describe any women whom are deemed to be ghetto, lack values and morals, dirty, annoying, etc..
Then something happened. Ratchet happened. In 2001, Jay-Z’s album “The Blueprint” introduced me to a world of clever wordplay, catchy hooks and a sound that was reminiscent of the days of Al Green and The Jackson 5. While its popularity can be backed by its position on the charts, ratchet’s appeal is a little more convoluted. There is definitely an intangible factor that makes a great ratchet song; otherwise, there wouldn’t be suburban kids present at the shows.
Ratchet is not just a song. Ratchet is a movement, Mandigo said. The term was first used in Lava House's 1999 single Ratchet as a derogatory term to describe someone as jealous, trashy, having little to no morals or someone who claims to be something they're not. 
Ratchet Girl Anthem is a video created to show some women that the way that they carry themselves isn't always cute. Ratchet Girl Anthem-The Single. Now Avaliable on iTunes-http://bit.ly/GI9hj9. epHudson Store-http://store.ephudson.com/. Vote Now-http://www.bet.com/shows/106-and-park... 
'Ratchet' is the new fad in rap music Anthony Nathan The State Hornet. In 2001, Jay-Z’s album “The Blueprint” introduced me to a world of clever wordplay, catchy hooks and a sound that was reminiscent of the days of Al Green and The Jackson 5. While its popularity can be backed by its position on the charts, ratchet’s appeal is a little more convoluted. There is definitely an intangible factor that makes a great ratchet song; otherwise, there wouldn’t be suburban kids present at the shows.
Ratchet [is] used to describe someone means nasty, ghetto or trifling. —Janet Ratchet also means a situation or process that is perceived to be deteriorating or changing steadily in a series of irreversible steps. It is used as a term for something low class or deteriorated. Similar to how we use the term ghetto. Ratchet [is] used to describe someone means nasty, ghetto or trifling. —Janet.
You don’t have to take what they’re saying as a serious thought,” said junior business major Vohn Dumdumaya. Ratchet is not new to hip-hop and it is certainly not new to music-the word just happens to be “in” with young people and rap enthusiast. While its popularity can be backed by its position on the charts, ratchet’s appeal is a little more convoluted. There is definitely an intangible factor that makes a great ratchet song; otherwise, there wouldn’t be suburban kids present at the shows.
When ratchet is used in hip hop, it can also mean cool, sloppy, sleek, or flashy. When Azealia Banks name-checks the word, as she often does on Twitter — “Ratchet bitches make the world go around” was one recent tweet — it’s hard to figure out exactly what she means, but it definitely has positive connotations. While she recognizes that the expression, when used to describe a person, is often pejorative, she has also sees women embracing “ratchet … as an attempt to de-pathologize it” and to celebrate both its edginess and its roots in the southern working class.