This will improve soil drainage and fertility. Plant marigold seeds in the soil 1/4 inch deep and water the area deeply. The appropriate spacing for marigolds depends on the mature size of the plant. French marigolds (Tagetes patula) are smaller plants and can be spaced 6 to 9 inches apart. The larger African marigolds (Tagetes erecta) need around 18 inches of space between plants. Marigolds take around 45 to 50 days to flower after you plant seeds, so seeds sown in early April should flower by May.
1 Marigolds need lots of sunshine. 2  Though they grow in almost any soil, marigolds thrive in moderately fertile, well-drained soil. 3  Sow them directly into the garden once the soil is warm, or start seeds indoors about a month to 6 weeks before the last spring-frost date. 1 Though they grow in almost any soil, marigolds thrive in moderately fertile, well-drained soil. 2  Sow them directly into the garden once the soil is warm, or start seeds indoors about a month to 6 weeks before the last spring-frost date. 3  The seeds germinate easily, but watch out for damping off if you start them inside.
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehowgarden. The length of time it will take marigolds to flower from a seed will commonly be printed right on the packaging. Find out how long it will take marigolds to flower from seed with help from a longtime and experienced gardener in this free video clip. Expert: Kathy Martin. Bio: Kathy Martin began growing her own food nearly 40 years ago, as a teenager. Filmmaker: Alan Mack. 
How Long Until Marigolds Flower From Seed. Marigolds are a simple grow-it-yourself project for new gardeners of all ages. The humble, common marigold (Tagetes spp) is the sturdy workhorse among annual bedding flowers that provide a steady infusion of color for a single growing season. Planting Plan. Choose a sunny location for fastest flowering; marigolds do fine in up to 20 percent shade, but take longer to bloom. Use a small garden rake to break up soil, and remove any weeds or rocks. Place seeds 6 inches apart. Cover with 1/4 inch of fine soil. Tamp down lightly, and soak gently so that seeds aren't displaced
Marigolds are flowers that can be planted in a flower patch with the Farming skill using marigold seeds. They are used as the protection payment for growing hammerstone hops. Planting marigolds in a Farming flower plot will protect potato, onion, and tomato allotments from disease. 
A Marigold seed is used in the Farming skill to grow Marigolds. They can be planted in a flower patch, and requires level 2 Farming. When fully grown, it protects potatoes, onions, and tomatoes from disease. [view] • [talk]. A Marigold seed is used in the Farming skill to grow Marigolds. They can be planted in a flower patch, and requires level 2 Farming. When fully grown, it protects potatoes, onions, and tomatoes from disease. A nearby gardener will not watch over your growing marigolds.
Sowing Seeds. When it's time to plant marigold seeds, amend the soil in the area with organic matter, like peat moss or compost. Do this by spreading a 1- to 2-inch layer of organic matter over the surface of the soil, then work the organic matter into the soil with a rake or garden hoe. Marigolds take around 45 to 50 days to flower after you plant seeds, so seeds sown in early April should flower by May.
Depending on the variety, marigolds can grow 8 to 40 inches tall, and develop blooms that can range in size from 1 to 5 inches. For germination within about five to 10 days, start the seeds indoors six weeks before the last spring frost and expose them to ideal conditions. Start marigold seeds in a seed-starting flat that's filled up until 3/4 inch from the top with sterile, moist, seed-starting mix. Sprinkle the seeds on top of the medium and sow them at a depth that equals two to four times the diameter of the seeds.