Port Focus. A popular Western Caribbean port of call for Royal Caribbean, Cozumel is an island located on the eastern shore of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. 1 Most excursions, both from Royal Caribbean or via third party, are within a 15 minute taxi ride of the dock, with a few excursions across the Yucatan Channel in nearby Playa del Carmen. 2  Favorite excursion: Tulum Mayan Ruins Excursion. 3  Diving: Cozumel is well known around the world for its scuba diving and snorkeling.
Royal Caribbean and the port city of Cozumel, Mexico are enjoying good relations, according to Royal Caribbean vice president of government relations Michael Ronan. The passengers, from Royal Caribbean's Liberty of the Seas, were in Cozumel, Mexico and died while in a sand buggy accident. Royal Caribbean did not identify the two victims, but did say they were a 43-year-old man and a 31-year-old woman. News media report the two as Jim Melillo and his girlfriend Susan Borges.
Cozumel, Mexico. Cozumel features great diving, snorkeling and beaches, marine-life encounters, botanical gardens, trails and shopping in the town of San Miguel. The nearby mainland is home to Tulum, Mayan cliffside ruins overlooking the Caribbean. Other Fun Things to Do. 1  Explore the underwater world of Chankanaab on a deep-sea adventure aboard the Atlantis Submarine. 2  Discover what makes a dolphin so magical as you play and interact with these amazing creatures in Chankanaab National Marine Park.
Cozumel Cruise Excursions recommends excursions for Allure of the Seas passengers for your visit to Cozumel Mexico based on the arrival times, departure time of your the Royal Caribbean Cruises Allure of the Seas as well as the length of your visit out our Port. Capacity: 3634 Persons. We warmly welcome all Royal Caribbean Cruises Allure of the Seas Cruise Ship Passengers to Cozumel, Mexico. We hope you enjoy your visit to the Port of Cozumel. Cozumel offers an abundance of excursions and activities to delight Allure of the Seas cruisers of all ages and activity levels.
Cozumel is the most popular port in the Western Caribbean. On average, cruise passengers will enjoy between 8 and 9 hours on shore in Cozumel. In 2015, Cozumel is slated to host 3,039,000 passengers sailing on 1,021 ships, down 3% and 4%, respectively, from 2014. There are three cruise ship piers and one passenger ferry pier on Cozumel Island. The Punta Langosta Pier is located in the center of San Miguel's downtown area, and is a short walk to the town's restaurants, bars and shops. The TMM International Pier is about 5 miles south of San Miguel's downtown area
Royal Caribbean Cruises Allure of the Seas-Cozumel Cruise Excursions. Royal Caribbean Cruises Allure of the Seas Cruise Ship. Capacity: 3634 Persons. We warmly welcome all Royal Caribbean Cruises Allure of the Seas Cruise Ship Passengers to Cozumel, Mexico. We hope you enjoy your visit to the Port of Cozumel. Cozumel offers an abundance of excursions and activities to delight Allure of the Seas cruisers of all ages and activity levels.
*Prices shown above are representative. Dates, times, and prices are subject to change and may not be available for your sailing. To purchase a Royal Caribbean International Shore Excursion, you must already have a reservation number for a cruise and have made a payment towards that reservation. Shore Excursions must be purchased in the same currency as your cruise reservation. 
Royal Caribbean ships will dock at the International Pier, which is located south of San Miguel and is about a 5 minute taxi ride away. Royal Caribbean ships dock in Cozumel and as you disembark the ship, you will walk into a small port shopping area. The shops, restaurants and bars in the port area are open when ships are present in port and offer many souvenirs that can be found around the island. The passengers, from Royal Caribbean's Liberty of the Seas, were in Cozumel, Mexico and died while in a sand buggy accident. Royal Caribbean did not identify the two victims, but did say they were a 43-year-old man and a 31-year-old woman. News media report the two as Jim Melillo and his girlfriend Susan Borges.
Many Royal Caribbean ships call on Cozumel as part of their Western Caribbean itineraries and if you are trying to decide what to do in Cozumel, here is your guide. The passengers, from Royal Caribbean's Liberty of the Seas, were in Cozumel, Mexico and died while in a sand buggy accident. Royal Caribbean did not identify the two victims, but did say they were a 43-year-old man and a 31-year-old woman. News media report the two as Jim Melillo and his girlfriend Susan Borges.