Various types of wheat are milled into a wide range of flours that are used for specific purposes: 1  Hard wheat varieties, including hard white, hard red winter, and hard red spring wheat have a high protein content (ranging from 10 to 14 percent), which means the gluten forming capacity is also higher. Farina is a type of flour or meal made from almost any type of grain, nut, or starchy root, but is most often made from wheat. It is usually boiled in water to create a bland tasting hot breakfast cereal or it can be used as an ingredient in other dishes.
Types of Flour: Flour that is used in baking comes mainly from wheat, although it can be milled from corn, rice, nuts, legumes, and some fruits and vegetables. The type of flour of flour used is vital at getting the product right. When making yeast bread recipes, there is not enough gluten in barley flour to properly develop the bread, and it is recommended swapping only one quarter of all-purpose flour for barley flour in yeast bread recipes. Great in quick breads and pancakes. Bread Flour is white flour made from hard, high-protein wheat.
1 Type 45 is often called pastry flour, and is generally from a softer wheat (this corresponds to what older French texts call farine de gruau). 2  Some recipes use Type 45 for croissants, for instance, although many French bakers use Type 55 or a combination of Types 45 and 55. Flour that does not have a leavening agent is called plain or all-purpose flour. It is appropriate for most bread and pizza bases. Some biscuits are also prepared using this type of flour. Bread flour is high in gluten protein, with 12.5-14% protein compared to 10-12% protein in
Pastry Flour also is made with soft wheat and falls somewhere between all-purpose and cake flour in terms of protein content and baking properties. Pastry flour (also known as cookie flour) has a protein (gluten) of 9% to 10%. Use pastry flour for making biscuits, pie crusts, brownies, cookies and quick breads. When making yeast bread recipes, there is not enough gluten in barley flour to properly develop the bread, and it is recommended swapping only one quarter of all-purpose flour for barley flour in yeast bread recipes. Great in quick breads and pancakes. Bread Flour is white flour made from hard, high-protein wheat.
This flour can also be used to replace corn starch (use 2 tablespoons tapioca flour for each 1 tablespoon corn starch). Teff Flour. Whole-Wheat Flour (Low Gluten) - Also called graham flour. It is made from the whole kernel of wheat and is higher in dietary fiber and overall nutrient content than white flours. When making yeast bread recipes, there is not enough gluten in barley flour to properly develop the bread, and it is recommended swapping only one quarter of all-purpose flour for barley flour in yeast bread recipes. Great in quick breads and pancakes. Bread Flour is white flour made from hard, high-protein wheat.
Other Types of Flour. Specialty flours: Specialty flours, such as whole wheat or graham, rye, oat, buckwheat, and soy, generally are combined with all-purpose flour in baked products because none has sufficient gluten to provide the right amount of elasticity on its own. Wheat Flours When referring to flour, most people mean wheat flour, unless they say otherwise. Flours made from other foods include amaranth, barley, buckwheat, millet, oats, soy, quinoa, rice, rye, and triticale. Wheat flours are classified by the amount of protein they contai
Standard wheat flours range from type 405 for normal white wheat flour for baking, to strong bread flour types 550, 812, and the darker types 1050 and 1700 for wholegrain breads. There is also a type 1600 which fits between white wheat flour and whole wheat flour, it will give you a darker white bread. 
Types of Flour. Most of us would describe flour as fine powder, made from wheat, which we use in cooking. However, depending on the wheat and the blending processes used by millers, it is now possible to buy different types of flour, each with a different purpose. 
Tortilla Flour. Tortilla flour is a type of wheat flour that is most often used for quick breads, such as muffins, biscuits, and dumplings, and flatbreads such as chapatis and tortillas. Whole-Wheat Flour. Whole-wheat flour is produced from grinding the full wheat berry (kernel). Farina is a type of flour or meal made from almost any type of grain, nut, or starchy root, but is most often made from wheat. It is usually boiled in water to create a bland tasting hot breakfast cereal or it can be used as an ingredient in other dishes.