Timing is very important. Joints should be sawed as soon as the concrete will withstand the energy of sawing without raveling or dislodging aggregate particles. For most concrete mixtures, this means sawing should be completed within the first six to 18 hours and never delayed more than 24 hours. The soils or granular fill supporting the slab in service must be either undisturbed soil or well compacted. In addition, contraction joints should be placed to produce panels that are as square as possible and never exceeding a length to width ratio of 1.5 to 1 (Figure 1).
For this reason control joints are cut into the slab every 10' or so that there is a weak spot for the crack to find. A rule of thumb is to cut 1/5th of the slab thickness so normally a 4 slab is cut at a depth of 1. When the slab wants to crack it will find the weakest spot and crack right beneath the control joint. Walk-behind saws do require a bit of room behind the blade to place the saw on. In order to cut this last 4' piece you'll have to turn the saw around later on to finish up the last 4'. If you are cutting short runs, such as control joints on a sidewalk, you will be better off with a hand-held saw.
Generally, contraction joints for a 4-inch-thick slab are placed 8 to 10 feet on center maximum in both directions. A 20-foot by 40-foot drive should be divided into eight to 10 equal pieces, one joint lengthwise and three to four joints perpendicular to the length. Then, when the concrete cracks, these cracks will occur at the bottom of the control joints where they can't be seen. If sawcutting is the selected approach, the slab should be cut to a depth of one-fourth of the thickness, for example, a 4-inch slab will need a 1-inch deep cut.
1 For more information, read about Where to Place Control Joints. 2  For an unreinforced slab, control joints should be spaced in feet 2 to 3 times the slab thickness in inches. 3  In other words, for a 4-inch slab, space the joints 8 to 12 feet apart. 4  The spacing is highly dependent on the concrete mix's shrinkage potential. Both isolation and construction joints are formed before the concrete is poured; contraction joints (or control joints) are placed in the fresh concrete before it has a chance to create its own joints—also known as cracks.
Thesejoints are typically not as deep as those ob-tained by the conventional saw-cut process,but should be a minimum of 1 inch [25 mm] indepth.• Conventional saw-cut joints should be runwithin 4 to 12 hours after the concrete hasbeen finished.d. 
Contraction/Control Joints. Contraction/control joints are placed in concrete slabs to control random cracking. A fresh concrete mixture is a fluid, plastic mass that can be molded into virtually any shape, but as the material hardens there is a reduction in volume or shrinkage. The soils or granular fill supporting the slab in service must be either undisturbed soil or well compacted. In addition, contraction joints should be placed to produce panels that are as square as possible and never exceeding a length to width ratio of 1.5 to 1 (Figure 1).
1 For an unreinforced slab, control joints should be spaced in feet 2 to 3 times the slab thickness in inches. 2  In other words, for a 4-inch slab, space the joints 8 to 12 feet apart. 3  The spacing is highly dependent on the concrete mix's shrinkage potential. Both isolation and construction joints are formed before the concrete is poured; contraction joints (or control joints) are placed in the fresh concrete before it has a chance to create its own joints—also known as cracks.
Grooving tools cut joints in fresh concrete. Saw cutting cuts joints as soon as the concrete is hard enough that the edges abutting the cut don't chip from the saw blade. Cutting joints soon enough. In hot weather, concrete might crack if joints are not cut within 6-12 hours after finishing concrete. In this condition, if you don't want to use a grooving tool to cut joints, there are early-entry dry-cut lightweight saws that can be used almost immediately after finishing. Control joints are planned cracks which allow for movements caused by temperature changes and drying shrinkage. In other words, if the concrete does crack-you want to have an active role in deciding where it will crack and that it will crack in a straight line instead of randomly. Space joints properly.