Red mercury is a hoax substance of uncertain composition purportedly used in the creation of nuclear bombs, as well as a variety of unrelated weapons systems. 
MERCURY MAGNET™ SPILL CLEAN-UP POWDER. MERCURY MAGNET powder is the remedy for the fumes released by spills of mercury metal. Concentrations of mercury vapor greater than 0.1 mg/m3 are prohibited by law. Concentrations of up to 20 mg/m3 can go unoticed for long periods of time, creating a serious health hazard. Sprinkle the powder over the mercury spill. Wet powder with water to form a paste. Ensure contact by scrubbing with a plastic scouring pad. Reaction is complete when all mercury is solidified and no drops of liquid mercury are observed.
Quick Facts: Mercury is a silvery-white poisonous metallic element. Mercury is liquid at room temperature and used in thermometers, barometers, fluorescent lighting, batteries and in the preparation of chemical pesticides. Mercury is also sometimes called quicksilver or liquid silver. The chemical symbol for Mercury is Hg. Mercury was named after the Roman god.
Best Answer: Mercury is a liquid metal at room temp, never a solid or powder. However, it can be combined with other things to form an alloy, such as with silver, or a chemical like the disinfectant Mercurochrome, which are solids and can be made into powders. Im guessing it is mercury (metal which is liquid at room temp) which has been cooled below its freezing point and then crushed to make powder Ps.
Report Abuse. Im guessing it is mercury (metal which is liquid at room temp) which has been cooled below its freezing point and then crushed to make powder Ps. Above note: Almost everything has a liquid, solid and gas form! perhaps the one exeption to this is dry ice! yes, mercury can be solid, liquid and/or gas. Im guessing it is mercury (metal which is liquid at room temp) which has been cooled below its freezing point and then crushed to make powder Ps
Designed for a quick response to leaks, spills or infectious wastes. Mercury Magnet™ powder is the ideal solution for the proper decontamination and clean up of mercury spills. Engineered for a quick response, Mercury Magnet is environmentally friendly allowing for the treated mercury to be properly recycled. MERCURY MAGNET™ powder is the remedy for the fumes released by spills of Mercury metal. MERCURY MAGNET™ turns liquid mercury into a solid non-vaporizing form. This is EPA Best Available Technology for treating mercury spills. This solidified amalgam can be easily picked up using a common magnet
1 Mercury is a liquid similar to Ant, because powders can lay on its surface and will not sink. 2  However, mercury does so because it is more dense, while ant does so because ant and powder are of the same density. 3  Mercury is the same color in BG-Grey as in the other backgrounds. 1 This makes a mercury thermometer impossible in Powder Game unless clone and wind were involved. 2  In-game mercury does not freeze. 3  This could, however, be possible due to the lowest possible temperature being at about 0°C (indicated by ice), while the freezing point of mercury is near -39°C.
A heavy, silvery d-block element, mercury is the only metallic element that is liquid at standard conditions for temperature and pressure; the only other element that is liquid under these conditions is bromine, though metals such as caesium, gallium, and rubidium melt just above room temperature. Mercury occurs in deposits throughout the world mostly as cinnabar (mercuric sulfide). The red pigment vermilion, a pure form of mercuric sulfide, is mostly obtained by reaction of mercury (produced by reduction from cinnabar) with sulfur.