The average SAT score composite at Syracuse University is a 1730. This score makes Syracuse University Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1560, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 1900. In other words, a 1560 places you below average, while a 1900 will move you up to above average.
Newhouse admissions are very competitive. Our incoming students, on average, have a 3.8 GPA, SAT scores in the 1290 range (without the writing), and ACT scores between 28 and 30. (Note: the SAT II is not required for admission). 1 2. 2  Your cumulative GPA (which includes all courses taken at Syracuse University) must meet the GPA cut-off for admission to Newhouse. 3  This varies depending upon the number of spaces available and the strength of the applicants in a given semester, but averages around 3.5 or above.
Discussion of Syracuse's Admissions Standards: About 60% of applicants to Syracuse University don't get in. Successful applicants will need grades and standardized test scores that are at least a little above average. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students. Most admitted students had a high school average of B or better, a combined SAT score of 1600 or higher, and an ACT composite score of 22 or higher. The higher those grades and scores, the better your chance of receiving an acceptance letter
Average GPA: 3.6. The average GPA at Syracuse University is 3.6. This makes Syracuse University Strongly Competitive for GPAs. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.6, Syracuse University requires you to be above average in your high school class. You'll need a mix of A's and B's, with a leaning toward A's. If you took some AP or IB classes, this will help boost your weighted GPA and show your ability to take college classes
Request more information now. Information about Syracuse University GPA average, as well as practice test questions, and career training courses. As the admission's office has to analyze a large number of applications, your goal is to stand out in a good way
The average GPA at Syracuse University is 3.6. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.6, Syracuse University requires you to be above average in your high school class. You'll need at least a mix of A's and B's, with more A's than B's. You can compensate for a lower GPA with harder classes, like AP or IB classes. This score makes Syracuse University Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1560, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 1900. In other words, a 1560 places you below average, while a 1900 will move you up to above average.
We were able to estimate the Syracuse University (SU) average GPA (3.28 - 3.57) of admitted students by applying sampled GPA data on over 150 schools. SU accepts about 50% of students applying. Of those that are accepted, around 25% of students registered for enrollment. Using acceptance rate data from previous years, we can project that the Syracuse University (SU) acceptance rate in 2015 is going to be around 52%.
The average ACT score composite at Syracuse University is a 26. The 25th percentile ACT score is 23, and the 75th percentile ACT score is 28. In other words, a 23 places you below average, while a 28 will move you up to above average. With a GPA of 3.6, Syracuse University requires you to be above average in your high school class. You'll need a mix of A's and B's, with a leaning toward A's.