Best Answer: The soreness is called DOMS (delayed onset of muscle soreness), delayed because you feel it the day after you work out. It's caused by the tears in your muscles that happen when you work out, and mostly by the build up of lactic acid.
Typically, muscle soreness is the result of lactic acid that builds up in the muscles during a workout. If you fail to stretch properly before and after a workout, this lactic acid stays in the muscles and, soon after, causes muscle soreness.
Slight muscle soreness comes with the territory when working out, and the benefits you gain from working out far exceed the discomfort you experience. A better understanding of what your muscles go through and how they respond to your workouts will help you see soreness in a whole new light.
Some guys who work out say the muscle soreness is actually worse the second day after working out. This pain is caused by minute tears in the fibers of the connective tissues in your body—the ligaments that connect bones to other bones, and the tendons that connect muscles to bones.
We've all been there: You've crushed a tough workout only to be rewarded with stiff, aching muscles the morning after. Turns out that uncomfortable feeling, otherwise known as delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), is actually a pretty normal side effect of the muscle rebuilding process.
Report Abuse. you get microscopic tears in your muscle fibers when working out. your muscles heal the tears over a couple days and build them back bigger and stronger to prevent future damage. its a good thing to be sore. nickname · 6 years ago.
It's normal to have sore muscles after you work out, play sports, or even do housework, especially if: 1  You did something you're not used to, like running a marathon when you normally jog just a few miles. 2  You suddenly kicked up your exercise intensity level or increased the length of your workout.
If you feel muscle soreness immediately after a workout, it probably means that you didn't stretch enough. So stretch out your muscles to get some relief. If you worked out yesterday and your muscles are sore, try using a heating pad or a hot shower to loosen up your muscles.