1. liquid inside the cell, mostly water. 2. made of lipids & proteins, it is the boundary of the cell; it controls what substances enter or leave the cell. 3. control center of the cell where genetic material (DNA) is found. 4. nonliving border that surrounds plant cells, made of cellulose. #3 - the plasma membrane in a plant cell is just inside the cell wall. #4 - cytoplasm is cytoplasm, everything else floats around in it. #5 - outermost boundary in a plant cell, looks like a picture frame. it is nonliving, not very flexible, and made of a polysaccharide called
It would be the Golgi Body, or Golgi Apparatus. The primary function of the Golgi apparatus is to process and package macromolecules, such as proteins and lipids, after their … synthesis and before they make their way to their destination; it is particularly important in the processing of proteins for secretion. 
It modifies, sorts, & packages molecules made for transport. GOLGI BODY (APPARATUS). Give the function for the GOLGI APPARATUS. Modifies, sorts, & packages molecules the cell makes for transport. Sac of digestive enzymes that breaks down food, unwanted cells, or cell parts. LYSOSOMES. Give the function for LYSOSOMES. Sac of digestive enzymes to break down food or unwanted cells or cell parts. Storage space for water, food, waste, & enzymes that is larger in plant cells and smaller in animal cells. CYTOSKELETON. Give a function for cytoskeleton. give cell shape, support, move structures within cell. Many, short hair-like structures made of microtubules that are attached to the outside of cells which help move the cell or move things past the cell.
The Golgi Apparatus. The Golgi apparatus (GA), also called Golgi body or Golgi complex and found universally in both plant and animal cells, is typically comprised of a series of five to eight cup-shaped, membrane-covered sacs called cisternae that look something like a stack of deflated balloons. In addition, the Golgi apparatus manufactures a variety of macromolecules on its own, including a variety of polysaccharides. The Golgi complex in plant cells produces pectins and other polysaccharides specifically needed by for plant structure and metabolism.
The Golgi apparatus is often considered the distribution and shipping department for the cell's chemical products. It modifies proteins and lipids (fats) that have been built in the endoplasmic reticulum and prepares them for export outside of the cell or for transport to other locations in the cell. In addition, the Golgi apparatus manufactures a variety of macromolecules on its own, including a variety of polysaccharides. The Golgi complex in plant cells produces pectins and other polysaccharides specifically needed by for plant structure and metabolism.
The Golgi apparatus is often found in close proximity to the ER in cells. Protein cargo moves from the ER to the Golgi, is modified within the Golgi, and is then sent to various destinations in the cell, including the lysosomes and the cell surface. © 2009 Nature Publishing Group Xu, D. & Esko, J. D. A Golgi-on-a-chip for glycan synthesis. Nature Chemical Biology 5, 612–613 (2009)
The Golgi processes proteins made by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) before sending them out to the cell. Proteins enter the Golgi on the side facing the ER (cis side), and exit on the opposite side of the stack, facing the plasma membrane of the cell (trans side). Protein cargo moves from the ER to the Golgi, is modified within the Golgi, and is then sent to various destinations in the cell, including the lysosomes and the cell surface.
It would be the Golgi Body, or Golgi Apparatus. The primary function of the Golgi apparatus is to process and package macromolecules, such as proteins and lipids, after their … synthesis and before they make their way to their destination; it is particularly important in the processing of proteins for secretion. The Golgi body (also know as Golgi apparatus, Golgi complex) has the same purpose in plants as in animals; it organises, packages, and distributes organic compounds (proteins, … carbohydrates). 1 person found this useful.
The cell organelle that packages molecules into vesicles for  distribution is the Golgi apparatus. The Golgi apparatus is  flattened stacks of membranes where unprocessed pr … oteins enter and  are packaged and exported near the membrane. Answered. In Biology. The Golgi body (also know as Golgi apparatus, Golgi complex) has the same purpose in plants as in animals; it organises, packages, and distributes organic compounds (proteins, … carbohydrates). 1 person found this useful.
Just like in animal cells, plant cell vacuoles are used for storage of water, salts and other molecules. The difference between plant and animal vacuoles is that plant cells have much larger ones. This is because plants need a lot more water than animal cells. Organelles and Their Functions. The nucleus is arguably the most important organelle in the cell. It is the control center, telling all of the other organelles what to do and when to do it. The nucleus also contains all of the cell's genetic material, or its DNA.