he slashes the canvas, and the knife pierces his own heart. Because Lord Henry is responsible for influencing Dorian Gray, he. is partly the cause of the death of Dorian (5810). While Lord Henry is indirectly the cause of Dorian's death, he. too causes his own downfall. for human life, separates individuals like Wilde's Dorian Gray from. humanity and makes monsters of them (West 5831). W.H. Auden feels that the story is specifically structured to. provide a moral. He compares the story to that of a fairy tale, complete with a princess, a wicked witch, and a fairy godmother.
Dorian Gray. At the opening of the novel, Dorian Gray exists as something of an ideal: he is the archetype of male youth and beauty. As such, he captures the imagination of Basil Hallward, a painter, and Lord Henry Wotton, a nobleman who imagines fashioning the impressionable Dorian into an unremitting pleasure-seeker. Lord Henry Wotton. Lord Henry is a man possessed of “wrong, fascinating, poisonous, delightful theories.” He is a charming talker, a famous wit, and a brilliant intellect. Given the seductive way in which he leads conversation, it is little wonder that Dorian falls under his spell so completely.
Dorian Gray is the subject of a full-length portrait in oil by Basil Hallward, an artist who is impressed and infatuated by Dorian's beauty; he believes that Dorian’s beauty is responsible for the new mode in his art as a painter. The Picture of Dorian Gray begins on a beautiful summer day in Victorian era England, where Lord Henry Wotton, an opinionated man, is observing the sensitive artist Basil Hallward painting the portrait of Dorian Gray, a handsome young man who is Basil's ultimate muse.
And, indeed, the whole book seemed to him to contain the story of his own life, written before he had lived it. Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray is a clear representative of the Gothic genre. In this genre, the concept of the doomed self, or the inevitability of fate, is ever-present. Yet, all that this tells us is that nobody but Dorian's own tendencies are responsible for his choices and therefore, for his end. Concisely, Dorian comes out as a doomed antihero whose fate is sealed from the beginning, and whose naturally evil flaws lead him to his own, chaotic destiny.
The Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde is the story of. moral corruption by the means of aestheticism. In the novel, the. well meaning artist Basil Hallward presets young Dorian. Gray with a portrait of himself. for human life, separates individuals like Wilde's Dorian Gray from. humanity and makes monsters of them (West 5831). W.H. Auden feels that the story is specifically structured to. provide a moral. He compares the story to that of a fairy tale, complete with a princess, a wicked witch, and a fairy godmother.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is a philosophical novel by the writer Oscar Wilde, first published complete in the July 1890 issue of Lippincott's Monthly Magazine. The magazine's editor feared the story was indecent, and without Wilde's knowledge, deleted roughly five hundred words before publication. The Picture of Dorian Gray begins on a beautiful summer day in Victorian era England, where Lord Henry Wotton, an opinionated man, is observing the sensitive artist Basil Hallward painting the portrait of Dorian Gray, a handsome young man who is Basil's ultimate muse.
Because Lord Henry is responsible for influencing Dorian Gray, he is partly the cause of the death of Dorian (5810). While Lord Henry is indirectly the cause of Dorian’s death, he too causes his own downfall. Lord Henry changes Dorian with the belief that morals have no legitimate place in life. He gives Dorian a book about a man who seeks beauty in evil sensations. The Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde is the story of moral corruption by the means of aestheticism.