Job Description for a Web Chief Technology Officer (CTO). Here is a job description for the work I’ve done as a chief technology officer for web startups. I'm happy to say the job description is very popular and has been copied widely. It's now available on its own site here: Job Description for a Chief Technology Officer (CTO). Why I wrote this: A web startup client recently asked me for a CTO job description to paste into a business plan.
(Redirected from Chief Technology Officer). A chief technology officer (CTO), sometimes known as a chief technical officer, is an executive-level position in a company or other entity whose occupant is focused on scientific and technological issues within an organization. The focus of a CTO may be contrasted with that of a chief information officer (CIO). A CIO is likely to solve organizational problems through acquiring and adapting existing technologies (especially those of an IT nature), whereas a CTO principally oversees development of new technologies (of various types).
Role of the Chief Technology Officer. A chief technical officer or chief technology officer (abbreviated as CTO) is an executive position whose holder is focused on scientific and technical issues within an organization. Essentially, a CTO is responsible for the transformation of capital – be it monetary, intellectual, or political – into technology in furtherance of the company’s objectives. The size and type of the organization heavily influences the responsibilities of a CTO.
Check Point easy2Comply. A Chief Technology Officer (CTO) is the individual within an organization who oversees current technology and creates relevant policy. A CTO should have the business knowledge necessary to align technology-related decisions with the organization's goals. In April 2009, President Barack Obama named Aneesh Chopra the first Chief Technology Officer of the United States. The particular focus of the first national CTO was to use applied technology to stimulate job creation, improve healthcare and security systems, and also to increase broadband access.
The Chief Technology Officer must be able to do the following task in their job function: 1  The Chief Technology Officer with a team of Information Technology decision makers, are responsible for building the IT framework, policy and safeguards of a business unit. The CTO works with all facets of the business and has cross functional responsibilities for IT and Management as well as external partners in making sure that the information technology infrastructure and digital property is fully operational.
Chief Technology Officer Job Description The following is a full job description for Chief Technology Officer. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Chief Technology Officer along with statistics.
CTO Duties. A Chief Technology Officer, or CTO, may be responsible for research and development, support of technology infrastructure or company operations. The CTO holds a unique position, both as top-level manager and as the person setting strategic goals for all business technology. 
Job Duties. CTOs generally report to the chief executive officer. They are responsible for establishing a company’s technical vision and leading all aspects of technology development, according to its strategic direction and growth objectives. Becoming a chief technology officer may be an objective for individuals with technical and leadership skills, as well as a firm grasp on the challenges businesses face today.
DEFINITION of 'Chief Technology Officer-CTO'. An executive who is responsible for the management of an organization's research and development (R&D) and technological needs. A chief technology officer (CTO) examines the short-and long-term needs of an organization, and utilizes capital to make investments designed to help the organization reach its objectives. The CTO usually reports directly the chief executive officer (CEO) of the firm. Next Up.