Purpose The purpose of the TExES™ Bilingual Education Supplemental test is to measure the requisite knowledge and skills that an entry-level educator in this field in Texas public schools must possess. The test is a requirement for candidates seeking a Bilingual Education Supplemental certificate. 6 Test Framework Field 164 – Bilingual Education Supplemental Competency 003 The beginning bilingual education teacher has comprehensive knowledge of the development and assessment of literacy in L1 and the development and assessment of biliteracy.
Contrary to popular belief, the TExES Bilingual Education test is not a measure of your academic performance, which is why test takers with perfect grades in college don't always pass the TExES Bilingual Education test. In our opinion, these are the 6 criteria you should always look for in a study guide for the TExES Bilingual Education test: One: The guide must be written by writers who have painstakingly researched the topics and concepts needed to succeed on
Typically, 60 multiple-choice questions are scored and 10 multiple-choice questions are used for pilot-testing purposes and do not contribute to the examinee's score. Score Scale: The Bilingual Education Supplemental test is scored on a 100-300 scale, with a passing score of 240. Test Structure. On each test date, the Bilingual Education Supplemental test is administered as a full-session test during the morning and afternoon sessions. Each session is five hours long. Copyright © 2011 by Texas Education Agency (TEA). All rights reserved.
Typically, 60 multiple-choice questions are scored and 10 multiple-choice questions are used for pilot-testing purposes and do not contribute to the examinee’s score. Score Scale: The Bilingual Education Supplemental test is scored on a 100-300 scale, with a passing score of 240. 6 Test Framework Field 164 – Bilingual Education Supplemental Competency 003 The beginning bilingual education teacher has comprehensive knowledge of the development and assessment of literacy in L1 and the development and assessment of biliteracy.
Each session is five hours long. Scoring Results are reported as scaled scores in a range from 100 to 300, with a passing score of 240. Thetotal test score is based on an examinee’s performance on the entire test. English as a Second Language Supplemental (ESL) (154) Purpose The purpose of the English as a Second Language Supplemental (ESL) test is to measure therequisite knowledge and skills that an entry-level educator in this field in Texas public schools mustpossess.
164 TExES Bilingual Education Supplemental Exam Practice Questions. Sample Study Notes. 1. Describe some strategies to create an effective bilingual learning environment. Answer: Studies show the most successful methods to create an effective bilingual learning environment incorporate several approaches. The exam-taker will have two and ½ hours to complete the exam and the exam will be scored on a scale of 100 – 300 with 240 set as the minimum score considered as passing for the exam.
Test and retest with hundreds of incredibly realistic TExES exam questions!! TExES™ Bilingual Education Supplemental, exam #164, formerly named Bilingual Education Supplemental EC-12, tests your knowledge on one domain: (1) Bilingual Education. Within each domain the content of the test is further defined by a set of competencies. It is the place where you can gauge your progress over time. This snapshot shows the score results of a test-taker that submitted to three practice exams; failing on the first try with a score of 201 and succeeding the next two attempts with scores of 261 and 297.
2 Test Framework Field 164 – Bilingual Education Supplemental Scoring Results are reported as scaled scores in a range from 100 to 300, with a passing score of 240. 6 Test Framework Field 164 – Bilingual Education Supplemental Competency 003 The beginning bilingual education teacher has comprehensive knowledge of the development and assessment of literacy in L1 and the development and assessment of biliteracy.
1 Students may register for one Practice Exam per test session. 2  If a Practice Exam is not listed below, then it is not required for state exam eligibility. 3  EC-6 Bilingual Generalist students are required to take the EC-6 Generalist and Bilingual Supplemental Practice tests. Practice Exam scores will be available on Banner ASAP two business days after the exam is given. Scores are reported in percentiles with 80% overall considered passing. There is not a passing score requirement on Practice Exams, but students are expected to demonstrate competence when taking a Practice Exam.
Methods to Effectively Teach Material in Two Languages for a Variety of Subjects. The exam-taker will have two and ½ hours to complete the exam and the exam will be scored on a scale of 100 – 300 with 240 set as the minimum score considered as passing for the exam. The registration fee for the Bilingual Education Supplemental Exam is $82 and the exam is only administered in a paper-based format