English language learners are instructed in the use of the English language. ESOL-English for Speakers of Other Languages. ELL-English Language Learner-Students whose first language is not English. and who are in the process of learning English. 
Rell. Gerrell Gaddis, better known by his stage name Rell, is an American R&B recording artist and songwriter from Bowman, South Carolina. He was the first male R&B singer to sign to New York City-based label Roc-A-Fella Records, where he recorded with artists such as Kanye West, Jay-Z, Consequence, and Young Gunz
RELL – Reclassified English Language Learner (also referred to as reclassified English Learner (REL)). An RELL is a student who has exited the ESOL program within the last two years. REL Plan – The REL Plan is an accommodations documentation for ELLs who have exited the ESOL program within the last two years. It is required in Grades 2-12 for all RELLs. TOEFL-Test of English as a Foreign Language. A curriculum has been adopted for the beginning and intermediate levels of ESOL for middle school and high school. ESOL – English for Speakers of Other Languages. This term is used to identify the programs, staff and students served by the Division of ESOL/Bilingual Programs.
Within TESOL, the following terms are used: 1  Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL): TESL involves teaching English to speakers of other languages and it most often interchanged with the term ESL teaching/teachers. 1 ELL students are referred to as such in both ESL specific classes and regular content area classes that they are integrated into. 2  ELL is a universally accepted term for English language learners in the K-12 setting, as well as among adult non-native English speakers who in the process of learning English.
ESOL stands for English for Speakers of Other Languages. TESOL stands for Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages. These abbreviations could render EFL-ESL differences irrelevant on paper, but the differences are still important to the teacher preparing his or her English lesson plans.
#2 03-Aug-2003, 05:17. ESL = English as a Second Language EFL = English as a Foreign Language TESL = Teacher of English as a Second Language TEFL = Teacher of English as a Foreign Language TESOL = Teacher of English as a Second or Other Language ESOL = English as a Second or Other Language 8). Senior Member. 1  Join Date: Apr 2003. 2  Posts: 519. 
The ESOL Program at Northwood. The ESOL Program has expanded to keep pace with the growing student population at Northwood. Some basics: ESOL stands for English for Speakers of Other Languages. It is the name of our instructional department and the MCPS program. We generally refer to our students as ELLs, English Language Learners. 
ESOL  A program designed to help students that speak another language other than English  Students in K-3 have one segment of ESOL for 30 minutes per day.  Students in grades 4-5 can have up one segment for 30-40 minutes per day. 
Because TESOL’s acronym is the same as the acronym for the field as a whole, it may also help to explain what the association is not: ♣ TESOL is not a school and does not provide English-language classes or teacher-education programs. When an organization or a certificate has the acronym TESOL in its name, it refers to the field as a whole and does not indicate that it is affiliated with the association. TESOL does not endorse or lend its name or logo to any organization.
TEFL stands for Teaching English as a Foreign Language. TESL stands for Teaching English as a Second Language. An English teacher who teaches English to speakers of other languages in a non-English speaking country is teaching EFL. For example, an American living and teaching English in Spain is an EFL teacher. TESOL stands for Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages. These abbreviations could render EFL-ESL differences irrelevant on paper, but the differences are still important to the teacher preparing his or her English lesson plans.