A. Canela molida is not a different species. It's simply the Spanish words for ground cinnamon.. Cinnamon has been the fuzzy focus of factious fluster for centuries, as the spice trade offered several different products as cinnamon and as new classification systems named and renamed various plant species. It further states that this is not the biblical cinnamon, which is C. cassia. On the other hand, the McCormick company labels its cinnamon canela molida, obviously
Cassia cinnamon is a plant. People use the bark and flower for medicine. Cassia cinnamon is used for many conditions, but so far science has not confirmed that it is effective for any of them. Research does show, however, that it is probably not effective for lowering blood sugar in type 1 or type 2 diabetes. In addition to diabetes, Cassia cinnamon is used for gas (flatulence), muscle and stomach spasms, preventing nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, infections, the common cold, and loss of appetite
McCormick Cinnamon (Canela Molida), Ground 5 lb (2.26kg) Cinnamon is the dried, inner bark of tropical evergreen trees native to Indonesia, Sri Lanka, and India. The taste of McCormick Cinnamon has a characteristic woody, musty, and earthy flavor and aroma. Cinnamon is warming to taste. 
Is this the sugested cinnamon to use when adding 1/2 to 1 tsp to a Type 2 Diabetic goprram (using Metformin & a glyburide medication). Many thanks. GB. Re-post: Canela Molida are the words printed under CINNAMON by McCormick Brand-Most Common in the US and available in almost all supermarkets, etc. Most of the research with cinnamon has been with people with Type 2 diabetes. One study looked at cinnamon in adolescents with Type 1 diabetes, and there was really no effect on glycemic control. My guess is that cinnamon would have little effect in Type 1 diabetes.
There are lots of different cinnamon varieties, but the two most common are: 1  Cinnamomum zeylanicum or Cinnamomum Verum- -commonly known as Ceylon cinnamon. 2  Cinnamomum cassia or Chinese cinnamon or Cassia cinnamon. Cassia Cinnamon isn’t fake, it’s just a different species of cinnamon bark from a different tree. Just as there are different types of mint. Ceylon isn’t more real than Cassia and the term “real cinnamon” is always in quotes when people recommend it as such, because it’s their personal opinion.
Editor’s Note (added after article was published): My friend, Jeanie Zak, pointed out that Ceylon is the “true cinnamon” that gives the most benefits. I did a little research and found that my McCormick Cinnamon; which says, “Canela Molida” (means “ground cinnamon”) is actually the cassia type. My research unveiled that cassia is cheaper and more common. And, there’s two main types of cinnamon: Ceylon and Cassia (Chinese cinnamon). Mankind has been consuming the spice for at least 4,000 years! For more than 1,000 years, cinnamon has been used for it’s medicinal value and doctors have given it to cure many ailments.
True cinnamon is the bark of a tree native to Sri Lanka (formerly Ceylon), the most prevalent species names of which are Cinnamomum verum (true cinnamon) and C. zeylanicum (Ceylon cinnamon), of which C. seylanicum is a variant spelling. In Europe, the word cinnamon is limited to this species. It further states that this is not the biblical cinnamon, which is C. cassia. On the other hand, the McCormick company labels its cinnamon canela molida, obviously a different species.
Tones Ground Cinnamon (Canela Molida) in foodservice package with dual flip-top lid. Tones Ground Cinnamon is Freeze-Ground for Superior Flavor and Aroma. Ground Cinnamon comes from the bark of selected cassia trees. It is a traditional spice for baking and desserts. 
There are two types of cinnamon: Ceylon and cassia, both derived from the bark of evergreen trees. Ceylon cinnamon is grown in South America, Southeast Asia, and the West Indies, while cassia cinnamon is grown in Central America, China, and Indonesia. Most of the research with cinnamon has been with people with Type 2 diabetes. One study looked at cinnamon in adolescents with Type 1 diabetes, and there was really no effect on glycemic control. My guess is that cinnamon would have little effect in Type 1 diabetes.
The increasing loss of this ritual coincides with the rise in diabetes. (photo by Amber Cole) Traditionally Te de Canela is served in Mexico as a morning tea. The increasing loss of this ritual coincides with the rise in diabetes for cinnamon has powerful antidiabetic effects. Mexico is one of the largest importers of cinnamon in the world. Cinnaomomum verum, is originally from Sri Lanka, and belongs to the Lauraceae family.