Glacial Mass Reduction: A Recipe. Drifting snowfall and avalanches cause accumulation, while sublimation, melting and calving cause ablation not just in the zone of ablation but anywhere on a glacier where mass loss occurs. Calving occurs when ice breaks off from part of a glacier. Accumulation happens on a glacier's upper regions in the accumulation zone. Composed mainly of ice with very little new snow, the ablation zone lies at lower altitudes where the glacier is melting, sublimating, or calving, resulting in mass loss.
The boundary between these two zones, the equilibrium line, is the transition where accumulation equals ablation. The accumulation zone has three major layers. The top layer is snow that thickens further up glacier. The next layer is the firn, or a transitional form between the snow and solid ice below. The ablation zone is located in the lower part of the the glacier where more snow is lost than accumulates. In late summer, when the seasonal snow has melted away from the surrounding valley walls, bare ice of the ablation zone is exposed.
Every glacier has an accumulation zone and an ablation zone. Between them lies an equilibrium line where accumulation occurs as fast as ablation. Not only do these zones vary in size, but it's possible for one zone, such as the zone of ablation, to cover an entire glacier; that could happen in a warm year. Accumulation happens on a glacier's upper regions in the accumulation zone. Composed mainly of ice with very little new snow, the ablation zone lies at lower altitudes where the glacier is melting, sublimating, or calving, resulting in mass loss.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ablation zone or ablation area refers to the low-altitude area of a glacier or ice sheet below firn with a net loss in ice mass due to melting, sublimation, evaporation, ice calving, aeolian processes like blowing snow, avalanche, and any other ablation. The ablation zone often contains meltwater features such as supraglacial lakes, englacial streams, and subglacial lakes. Sediments dropped in the ablation zone forming small mounds or hillocks are called kames. Kame and kettle hole topography is useful in identifying an ablation zone of a glacier.
Definition: The part of the glacier where the annual snow increase exceeds the ice loss. As opposed to the Zone of Ablation, which is the part of the glacier where annual ice loss (e.g., from melting and sublimation) exceeds the annual snow increase. 1  All Terms. 
Two processes, accumulation and ablation, influence a glacier's properties. Accumulation is an increase in mass and ablation is a decrease in mass. The location on a glacier where mass decreases-- where it loses ice-- is the all-important zone of ablation. Accumulation happens on a glacier's upper regions in the accumulation zone. Composed mainly of ice with very little new snow, the ablation zone lies at lower altitudes where the glacier is melting, sublimating, or calving, resulting in mass loss.
The down-valley part of a glacier is the ____, where melting, evaporation, and calving take place. zone of ablation. The boundary between the zone of accumulation and the zone of ablation is an irregular line called the _____. equilibrium line. A(n) _______ is a mass of ice that is not restricted to a valley but covers large areas of land. ice sheets. If all ice sheets were to melt, sea level would _____. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. On a glacier, the accumulation zone is the area above the firn line, where snowfall accumulates and exceeds the losses from ablation, (melting, evaporation, and sublimation). The annual Glacier equilibrium line separates the accumulation and ablation zone annually. The accumulation zone is also defined as the part of a glacier’s surface, usually at higher elevations, on which there is net accumulation of snow, which subsequently turns into firn and then glacier ice. Part of the glacier where snow builds up and turns to ice moves outward from there.