The kidneys ensure that the make-up and volume of the fluids in the body is correct. They help control the chemical balance of the blood and regulate the body’s level of sodium, potassium and calcium. The kidneys remove waste products and excess water from the body and so help to regulate blood pressure. They activate vitamin D, which helps to maintain strong bones, and produce erythropoietin, a hormone that is vital for the production of red blood cells. Each kidney contains 1.0-1.5 million small tubes called nephrons. The kidneys filter blood through a network of small blood vessels called the glomerulus. 
Erythropoietin (EPO). Erythropoietin is a glycoprotein. It acts on the bone marrow to increase the production of red blood cells. Stimuli such as bleeding or moving to high altitudes (where oxygen is scarcer) trigger the release of EPO. People with failing kidneys can be kept alive by dialysis. Calcitriol. 1  calciferol (vitamin D 3) which is synthesized in skin exposed to the ultraviolet rays of the sun. 2  precursors (vitamin D) ingested in the diet. 3  calciferol is converted in the liver into 25[OH] vitamin D 3. 4  this is carried to the kidneys (bound to a serum globulin) where it is converted into calcitriol.
Hormone, erythropoietin: Erythropoietin is a substance produced by the kidney that leads to the formation of red blood cells in the bone marrow. Abbreviated: EPO. The kidney cells that make EPO are specialized and are sensitive to low oxygen levels in the blood coming into the kidney. These cells release erythropoietin when the oxygen level is low in the kidney. Erythropoietin stimulates the bone marrow to produce more red blood cells which in turn increases the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood. EPO is the prime regulator of red cell production
The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands. 
1 Erythropoietin (EPO) is a hormone produced by the kidney. 2  Erythropoietin promotes the formation of red blood cells by the bone marrow. 3  The erythropoietin hormone level can be detected and measured in the blood (the EPO test). These cells make and release erythropoietin when the oxygen level is too low. A low oxygen level may indicate a diminished number of red blood cells (anemia), or hemoglobin molecules that carry oxygen through the body.
Feedback Regulation Loops. The endocrine system plays an important role in homeostasis because hormones regulate the activity of body cells. The release of hormones into the blood is controlled by a stimulus. For example, the stimulus either causes an increase or a decrease in the amount of hormone secreted. 1 To identify and example of two organ systems working together to maintain homeostasis. 2  To summarize the role of the endocrine system in homeostasis. 3  To outline the result of a disturbance in homeostasis of a body system.
The endocrine system plays an important role in homeostasis because hormones regulate the activity of body cells. The release of hormones into the blood is controlled by a stimulus. For example, the stimulus either causes an increase or a decrease in the amount of hormone secreted. 