Ionizing radiation includes electromagnetic waves, such as gamma rays and x-rays, and particulate radiation, the alpha and beta rays. Ionizing radiation impacts tissues with higher energy and therefore is more likely to present a health hazard. All materials emit some radiation. X-rays are a form of electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength ranging from 10 to 0.01 nanometers (billionths of a meter) and energies between 120 and 120,000 eV (electron-volts). Electromagnetic radiation is absorbed by different types of materials at different rates.
Sheena Macmillan, by email. Older CRT type televisions and monitors used to emit very low energy X-Rays, which are distantly related to Gamma radiation, but it only happened when they were switched on. Since the 1960s emissions of this type have been very strictly regulated but as far as I am aware it was never shown to be harmful. 
A gamma ray is highly energetic form of electromagnetic radiation, and gamma ray photons result from changes in atomic nuclei. This type of radiation is ionizing radiation, an … d it is highly penetrating. Additionally, it will easily break chemical bonds in organic (and other) compounds. This results in tissue damage. In a short answer: Yes. Gamma rays are the most powerful form of electromagnetic radiation. A gamma ray is a photon or ray that can have an energy level of 10 exahertz or more … . The groups of radiation include radio waves, microwaves, infra-red, visible light, ultraviolet, X-ray, and gamma ray radiation
As the wavelengths of light decrease, they increase in energy. X-rays have smaller wavelengths and therefore higher energy than ultraviolet waves. We usually talk about X-rays in terms of their energy rather than wavelength. This is partially because X-rays have very small wavelengths. It is also because X-ray light tends to act more like a particle than a wave. It doesn't hurt at all-you can't feel X-rays. Because your bones and teeth are dense and absorb more X-rays then your skin does, silhouettes of your bones or teeth are left on the X-ray film while your skin appears transparent.
X-rays aren't emitted by the black hole itself. Rather, gases that are accelerated at the event horizon generate X-rays. In the accretion disc, material is collecting and being sped up as it begins its fall into the gravity well. It is possible to detect black holes by the X-rays emitted at the event horizon. That's one way to see them. It's tricky, but the tools of the modern astronomer are nothing … short of astonishing. Let's take a walk.
To the right is an image of a real X-ray detector. This instrument is called the Proportional Counter Array and it is on the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) satellite. It looks very different from anything you might see at a dentist's office! To the right is an image of a real X-ray detector. It doesn't hurt at all-you can't feel X-rays. Because your bones and teeth are dense and absorb more X-rays then your skin does, silhouettes of your bones or teeth are left on the X-ray film while your skin appears transparent.
Radiation is the emission (sending out) of energy from any source. There are many types of radiation. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is a form of electromagnetic radiation. The main source of UV radiation (rays) is the sun, although it can also come from man-made sources such as tanning beds and welding torches. Radiation exists across a spectrum from very high-energy (high-frequency) radiation – like x-rays and gamma rays – to very low-energy (low-frequency) radiation – like radio waves. UV rays have more energy than visible light, but not as much as x-rays.