Protect yourself in the event of a weather disaster with affordable flood insurance. R Tinker Insurance has years of experience providing flood insurance to residents in Houston, Harris County, Friendswood, Pearland, all along the Gulf Coast and inland Texas regions. Flood insurance can be purchased through us or the NFIP directly. There is a 30-day waiting period before coverage under a new policy takes effect. Please let us know if you would like to discuss this often overlooked coverage.
The City of Pearland is currently using the FEMA floodplain maps with Harris County (2007), Brazoria County (1989 & 1999), and Fort Bend County (1997 & 2000). The updated maps for Brazoria County are expected to be completed within the next year. Since the City of Pearland participates in FEMA's Community Rating System, you are entitled to a premium discount. For more information on federal insurance and the premium discount, call your insurance company and refer them to this webpage or our annual Floodplain and Outreach notices.
The flood zoning really varies by area and no, the entire region is not in a flood hazard. The following link has a newsletter published from the City of Pearland regarding flooding http://www.cityofpea...3A2ABEFB2E}.PDF. Many of the areas around Clear Creek are prone more to flood, but the newer developments have built in detention ponds and better drainage systems to reduce risk. I think a lot of the older sections of Pearland are plagued by poor drainage.
Definition/Description. Flood hazard areas identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map are identified as a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). SFHA are defined as the area that will be inundated by the flood event having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. The 1-percent annual chance flood is also referred to as the base flood or 100-year flood. SFHAs are labeled as Zone A, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zones A1-A30, Zone AE, Zone A99, Zone AR, Zone AR/AE, Zone AR/AO, Zone AR/A1-A30, Zone AR/A, Zone V, Zone VE, and Zones V1-V30.
The Engineering Division is responsible for the maintenance and enforcement of the City's floodplain and floodway ordinances as mandated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Since the City of Pearland participates in FEMA's Community Rating System, you are entitled to a premium discount. For more information on federal insurance and the premium discount, call your insurance company and refer them to this webpage or our annual Floodplain and Outreach notices.
The purpose of this page is to define a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), a commonly used term in floodplain management. 
I heard from an insurance expert that the entire Pearland region is a Flood Hazard Zone A, which supposedly designates an area that is at high risk, and that flood insurance is required in the area. Many of the areas around Clear Creek are prone more to flood, but the newer developments have built in detention ponds and better drainage systems to reduce risk. I think a lot of the older sections of Pearland are plagued by poor drainage.
Pearland is a city in the U.S. state of Texas, within Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land metropolitan area. Most of the city is in Brazoria County, with portions extending into Fort Bend and Harris counties. West Pearland has a lot of suburban development, while East Pearland has older houses and, according to Maggie Galehouse of the Houston Chronicle, Pearland's rural roots still show in the east side. Pearland's main east-west corridor is Farm to Market Road 518 /Broadway.
The 100-year floodplain is the land that will be covered by the 100-year flood. The 100-year flood is a standard used by the NFIP for floodplain management and to determine the need for flood insurance. Since the City of Pearland participates in FEMA's Community Rating System, you are entitled to a premium discount. For more information on federal insurance and the premium discount, call your insurance company and refer them to this webpage or our annual Floodplain and Outreach notices.
Using our flood maps and property maps, can help you determine if a portion of your property is in the floodplain of Clear Creek, Cowart Creek, Hickory Slough, Mary's Creek and Corrigan Ditch or one of the smaller streams. Call the City's Floodplain Administrator to ask for a site visit to discuss flood hazards and what you can do to reduce future damage. Depending on the severity of flooding, you might be able to retrofit some aspects of your house. or take a simple, permanent step such as raising your heat pump on an elevated platform.