The term gross is used in medicine to mean the opposite of microscopic (eg, gross anatomy is the study of anatomy at the level of whole organs and muscles, etc., whereas microscopic anatomy uses special instruments to study the cells and tissues that make up organs). If you read the phrase on a biopsy report, you might consider asking your doctor what exactly that was referring to. It means that there wasn't anything abnormal found on exam. Grossly unremarkable means everything looked good during the exam that was done
The term “unremarkable” is a shortcut for the description of an imaging study or imaging finding. The term “normal” is a complete evaluation. 
Gross in medical terminology means able to see with the unaided eye, as in without a microscope, and negative means that they didn't find anything. So if something is grossly … negative, then they looked at it and nothing looked abnormal to them. 5 people found this useful. If you read the phrase on a biopsy report, you might consider asking your doctor what exactly that was referring to. It means that there wasn't anything abnormal found on exam. Grossly unremarkable means everything looked good during the exam that was done
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Unremarkable in medical terms means nothing seen out of the ordinary. For example, when doctors perform a physical exam your medical report would read: Head and neck: unremarkable. Ears, nose and throat: unremarkable. Unremarkable means that that specific test result was negative and nothing significant was found. It's like getting a X-ray of your knee because you complained of pain, but there were no torn ligaments or other areas that would have contributed to your pain. Source(s): I am an RN. SouthernCharm · 3 years ago.
What does unremarkable mean in medical terms? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What do you think it is about Sirens that resonates with viewers? What does grossly unremarkable mean in medical terms? What does pulmonary vascular is unremarkable mean? What does unremarkable for age ... When a radiologist says the posterior fossa is unremarkable it  means that everything looks normal. Posterior means back, fossa is  an anatomical pit of the skull, and unrem … arkable means nothing  stands out as being different. 4 people found this useful.
Best Answer: That is medical terms. You want to hear layman's terms. Unremarkable is good. It means everything's normal. Remarkable means there's something there that maybe shouldn't be. 1 We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 2  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 3  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 4  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 5  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
Unremarkable is what you want to hear if you are a patient. It means nothing unusual was found in the medical imaging or testing process. Remarkable means something stands out as not normal. BSherman · 6 years ago. 1 We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 2  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 3  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 4  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 5  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
adj. unremarkable - 1. Lacking distinction; ordinary.2. found in the ordinary course of events; a placid everyday scene; it was a routine day; In medical practice, when n … othing UNUSUAL found, occured or happened, its UNREMAKABLE. 49 people found this useful. When a radiologist says the posterior fossa is unremarkable it  means that everything looks normal. Posterior means back, fossa is  an anatomical pit of the skull, and unrem … arkable means nothing  stands out as being different. 4
The term gross is used in medicine … to mean the opposite of microscopic (eg, gross anatomy is the study of anatomy at the level of whole organs and muscles, etc., whereas microscopic anatomy uses special instruments to study the cells and tissues that make up organs). When a radiologist says the posterior fossa is unremarkable it  means that everything looks normal. Posterior means back, fossa is  an anatomical pit of the skull, and unrem … arkable means nothing  stands out as being different. 4 people found this useful.
In medical terminology the term gross means able to be seen with the naked eye, as in gross anatomy. So when a doctor says that something was grossly unremarkable, it means th … at they examined it without magnification, and didn't detect anything wrong with it. On the converse when a doctor says grossly abnormal, they looked at it ans were able to dect abnormal changes without needing to use a microscope. If you read the phrase on a biopsy report, you might consider asking your doctor what exactly that was referring to. It means that there wasn't anything abnormal found on exam. Grossly unremarkable means everything looked good during the exam that was done