English. The Arabic language is one of the most widely spoken languages all over the world. It is the means of communication for over 422 million people, mainly in North Africa, the Middle East and what is known generally as the Arab World. The Arabic language is also frequently used in the surrounding areas of Turkey, Chad, Mali, Senegal, and Eritrea.
Egyptian Arabic, also known as Egyptian Spoken Arabic, Masri, Massry, Normal Egyptian Arabic and Egyptian Colloquial Arabic, is a variety of Arabic which belongs to the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family. It is spoken by 52,500,000 people in Egypt (Ethnologue). It also serves as a second language in many other countries of the Middle East, e.g., in Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen (Ethnologue).
The language that is spoken by the native speakers of Arabic is usually referred to as dialect لـَهْجة. The numerous dialects are purely spoken and are used in parallel to another form of the language that is primarily written but is also spoken in the media today. Culture. History of the Arabic Language تاريخ اللغة العربيّة. The Arabic language is spoken today by over 250 million people in the Middle East and North Africa. A number of other native languages are also spoken in this part of the world such as Kurdish, Berber, and Mahri.
1 Arabic is today spoken by more than 200 million people in the Arab World, and it is an official language in 22 countries. 2  Arabic is also an important language in many countries bordering on the Arab World, like Mali, Niger, Chad, Eritrea, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Somalia. 1 Arabic is also an important language in many countries bordering on the Arab World, like Mali, Niger, Chad, Eritrea, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Somalia. 2  There are also Arabic-speaking populations in parts of southern Turkey and southwestern Iran.
Arabic is the official language of Algeria, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Western Sahara, and Yemen as well as one of the six official languages of the United Nations. 
Arabic is written with the Arabic alphabet, which is an abjad script and is written from right-to-left although the spoken varieties are sometimes written in ASCII Latin from left-to-right with no standardized forms. Arabic has influenced many languages around the globe throughout its history. If considered separate languages, the most-spoken variety would most likely be Egyptian Arabic with 89 million native speakers —still greater than any other Afroasiatic language. Arabic also is a liturgical language of 1.6 billion Muslims.
Arabic is the official language of the 22 countries which form the Arab League: It’s the native language of over 200m people residing in this geographical region, which stretches from Southwest Asia to Northwest Africa and is also known as the Arab World. 
Arabic is one of the world's great languages. Its graceful script, magnificent style and rich vocabulary give the language a unique character and flavour. Arabic is the largest member of the Semitic language family, which also includes languages like Hebrew and Aramaic. 1 Arabic is also an important language in many countries bordering on the Arab World, like Mali, Niger, Chad, Eritrea, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Somalia. 2  There are also Arabic-speaking populations in parts of southern Turkey and southwestern Iran.