Here is a short 6 minutes documentary that shows the events that lead to the fall of the Berlin Wall and beyond. I recently this video material recently and thought that some of it is spectacular. 
Print. View/Post Comments. The Berlin Wall fell 20 years ago today. It’s hard to believe it has been 20 years ago since we sat awestruck as the Berlin Wall, symbol of Soviet tyranny in the Eastern Bloc, was destroyed and the gates to freedom were opened. 
August 13 marks the 50th anniversary of the initial construction of the Berlin Wall, which cut off West Berlin from East Berlin and East Germany until its fall on November 9, 1989. First made of barbed wire and later of concrete, the guarded barrier was one of the most iconic and powerful symbols of the Cold War. And on the night of August 12-13, the East Germans sealed the border all the way around West Berlin so that no one from East Berlin or East Germany could get to West Berlin without permission from the East German authorities.
Nov. 9 marks the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, the iconic barrier that completely enclosed West Berlin from 1961 to 1989 and symbolized the height of Cold War tensions. Around the world, the international German community and others are marking the milestone with celebrations and shared memories. 
The Berlin Wall: The Fall of the Wall. On November 9, 1989, as the Cold War began to thaw across Eastern Europe, the spokesman for East Berlin’s Communist Party announced a change in his city’s relations with the West. Starting at midnight that day, he said, citizens of the GDR were free to cross the country’s borders. For 30 years, the Berlin Wall was the defining symbol of the Cold War, separating families and keeping the people from jobs and opportunity in the west. 1  Contents. 2  The Berlin Wall: The Partitioning of Berlin. 3  The Berlin Wall: Blockade and Crisis.
Now, we're talking about the fall of the wall, 20 years ago today, with Carol Guzy, staff photographer for the Washington Post who was there, J.D. Bindenagel, then the deputy chief of mission at the U.S. embassy in Berlin, Peter Schneider, a German writer and with John Sununu, then the White House chief of staff. Twenty years ago today — on Nov. 9, 1989 — crowds swelled at the barrier that divided East and West Berlin as the wall that stood as a symbol of the Cold War came down.
Before the Wall's erection, 3.5 million East Germans circumvented Eastern Bloc emigration restrictions and defected from the GDR, many by crossing over the border from East Berlin into West Berlin; from which they could then travel to West Germany and other Western European countries. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, French President Francois François mitterrand Warned thatcher that a Unified germany could make more ground Than Adolf hitler ever had and That europe would have to bear the. consequences
Soon the wall was gone and Berlin was united for the first time since 1945. “Only today,” one Berliner spray-painted on a piece of the wall, “is the war really over.”. The reunification of East and West Germany was made official on October 3, 1990, almost one year after the fall of the Berlin Wall. For 30 years, the Berlin Wall was the defining symbol of the Cold War, separating families and keeping the people from jobs and opportunity in the west. 1  Contents. 2  The Berlin Wall: The Partitioning of Berlin. 3  The Berlin Wall: Blockade and Crisis.
Deconstructing History: Berlin Wall. For 30 years, the Berlin Wall was the defining symbol of the Cold War, separating families and keeping the people from jobs and opportunity in the west. 1  Contents. 2  The Berlin Wall: The Partitioning of Berlin. 3  The Berlin Wall: Blockade and Crisis.
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, French President Francois François mitterrand Warned thatcher that a Unified germany could make more ground Than Adolf hitler ever had and That europe would have to bear the. consequences