The guitar is a popular musical instrument classified as a string instrument with anywhere from 4 to 18 strings, usually having 6. The term guitar is descended from the Latin word cithara but the modern guitar itself is generally not believed to have descended from the Roman instrument. Many influences are cited as antecedents to the modern guitar.
Guitar-like instruments have existed since ancient times (see the Guitar Museum), but the first written mention of the guitar proper is from the 14th century. In its earliest form it had three double courses (pairs) of strings plus a single string (the highest). 
The guitar actually has a mixed heritage, but the origins of the modern instrument can be traced back to Spain. In fact, the word guitar is derived from the Spanish word gu … itarra.. The first ever guitar is said to have had two necks-one with 18 strings and the other with 12. The whole piece was the size of a cello, but was still rested on the knee in the most common position we know today. The English word guitar comes from the Spanish, who invented the modern instrument. Their word is guitarra, pronounced gee-TA-rra, with a rolled R. The Spanish word came from … an ancient Arabic and ancient Greek word for a stringed instrument, pronounced key-THAY-ra, which is also where the word zither is derived.
Before the development of the electric guitar and the use of synthetic materials, a guitar was defined as being an instrument having a long, fretted neck, flat wooden soundbo … ard, ribs, and a flat back, most often with incurved sides. The English word guitar comes from the Spanish, who invented the modern instrument. Their word is guitarra, pronounced gee-TA-rra, with a rolled R. The Spanish word came from … an ancient Arabic and ancient Greek word for a stringed instrument, pronounced key-THAY-ra, which is also where the word zither is derived.
The first electric guitarist of note to use a seven-string guitar was jazz guitarist George Van Eps, who was a pioneer of this instrument. Solid body seven-strings were popularized in the 1980s and 1990s in part due to the release of the Ibanez Universe guitar, endorsed by Steve Vai. The term guitar is descended from the Latin word cithara but the modern guitar itself is generally not believed to have descended from the Roman instrument. Many influences are cited as antecedents to the modern guitar.
The guitar was originally from the Greeks... but their model was impoved by the Spanish. The word Guitar originated from Greece, however the Guitar itself first originated in Spain-Andalusia. In the year 711 Arabic nations conquered Spain and with them they brought a stringed instrument called the Ud. The Ud is one of the worlds oldest known stringed instruments. it originated in America from a Swiss Immigrant named Adolph Rickenbacker's company. The first electric guitar was nicknamed the frying pan and was invented by two key peopl … e Adolph Rickenbacher and George Beauchamp.
The guitar's roots are in Spain. Realistically, it cannot be traced back further than the 15th Century. It is thought to have been invented by the people of Malaga. This early instrument was a 'four course' guitar, from which the ukulele is derived. The first guitars were very small, and were originally strung with four pair of strings. Each pair was call a course. During the Renaissance, the guitar never had the respect the lute enjoyed
Answers. Best Answer: The earliest electric guitars were hollow bodied acoustic instruments with tungsten pickups made by the Rickenbacker company in 1931. While one of the first solid-body guitars was invented by Les Paul, the first commercially successful solid-body electric guitar was the Fender Telecaster (1946). Source(s): D28Guy · 7 years ago. 