He was sentenced to three years and three months in jail, after reaching a deal with prosecutors,. He could have faced a 10-year prison sentence if he had gone to trial. Gucci Mane has been in custody for 11 months, so he will serve 28 months from the rest of his sentence, E! News reports. “Mr. Davis went in knowing, and has known for months now, so he is okay with the amount of time,” Gucci’s lawyer, Drew Findling, from Findling Law Firm, told HollywoodLife.com.
By Atlanta's Hottest Hip Hop. A Fulton County judge has just sentenced Gucci Mane to an additional 3 years in prison after the incarcerated ATL rapper pleaded guilty Monday (September 15) to assaulting a fan at a nightclub. 
“D.A. nailed me, watch them jail me…” -Gucci Mane, “Classical”. In September 2008, Gucci Mane was arrested yet again. This time it was for completing only 25 hours out of the 600 hours he was assigned for his conviction on the 2005 assault charges. He was sentenced to a year in jail, but ended up only serving six months for good behavior. Last Friday, Gucci “Guwop” Mane was released from jail. He announced his freedom with the following tweet: https://twitter.com/gucci1017/status/330177390179409921. Gucci had been incarcerated for smashing a champagne bottle over the head of a fan who asked him for a photograph.
Each felony gun possession charge carries a maximum punishment of 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. This is the second time Gucci Mane has been arrested for gun-related issues with the first occurring in 2005. 
On September 12, 2008, Gucci Mane receives a sentence of one year in jail for failing to complete his 600 hours of community service. (He had only completed 25 hours at the time.) He serves six months at Fulton County Jail and is released on March 13, 2009. 
Gucci pleaded guilty Tuesday to possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. The charge carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in jail, but under Gucci's plea deal, he's only expected to face 39 months ... minus 10 months credit for time served. Gucci will officially be sentenced in July. 
The rapper has already been in custody for 11 months. Gucci Mane, 34, whose real name is Radric Davis, will serve the remaining 28 months of his 39 month sentence after pleading guilty to a gun charge. Gucci Mane has been in custody for 11 months, so he will serve 28 months from the rest of his sentence, E! News reports. “Mr. Davis went in knowing, and has known for months now, so he is okay with the amount of time,” Gucci’s lawyer, Drew Findling, from Findling Law Firm, told HollywoodLife.com.
Rapper Gucci Mane has just been released from jail in Georgia after spending nearly three weeks behind bars, TMZ has learned. As we reported, Gucci was arrested April 13th for a probation violation. He's been in jail since. 
Rapper Gucci Mane was sentenced to 39 months in jail after pleading guilty to a federal gun possession charge. Gucci Mane, 34, whose real name is Radric Davis, will serve the remaining 28 months of his 39 month sentence after pleading guilty to a gun charge. Gucci Mane has been in custody for 11 months, so he will serve 28 months from the rest of his sentence, E! News reports. “Mr. Davis went in knowing, and has known for months now, so he is okay with the amount of time,” Gucci’s lawyer, Drew Findling, from Findling Law Firm, told HollywoodLife.com.
On October 13 2008, Gucci Mane was sentenced to 1 year in jail for violating conditions of his parole! report this answer. 