Virus latency (or viral latency) is the ability of a pathogenic virus to lie dormant (latent) within a cell, denoted as the lysogenic part of the viral life cycle. A latent viral infection is a type of persistent viral infection which is distinguished from a chronic viral infection. Latency is the phase in certain viruses' life cycles in which, after initial infection, proliferation of virus particles ceases. However, the viral genome is not fully eradicated. More serious ramifications of a latent infection could be the possibility of transforming the cell, and forcing the cell into uncontrolled cell division. This is a result of the random insertion of the viral genome into the hosts own gene and expression of host cellular growth factors for the benefit of the virus.
Viral diseases are extremely widespread infections caused by viruses, a type of microorganism. There are many types of viruses that cause a wide variety of viral diseases. The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosi
In general, each type of virus tends to infect only a certain type of cell in the body. (For example, the viruses that cause the common cold only infect the cells lining the nose and throat.). Several viruses are linked with cancer in humans. While HPV infections are very common, cancer caused by HPV is not. Most people infected with HPV will not develop a cancer related to the infection. HPV infections of the mucous membranes can cause genital warts, but they usually have no symptoms.
DNA viruses usually enter the nucleus and alter the DNA in order to produce new viral particles so I guess the answer is any DNA virus. It then injects its nucleic acid (DNA/RNA) int … o the host to replace the host's genetic material. This is a step in the lytic cycle, see the related question below for more details of this entire viral replication process. More: Enveloped and non-enveloped viruses enter a host cell in two ways. The capsid or viral envelope can fuse with the host cell membrane and release the viral material into the host cell, or the virus can trick the host cell
1 The Most Common Types of Viral Infections Viral infection is one of the most common causes of disease. 2  There is a huge variety of different viruses with a range of effects, from mild to very severe in nature. 3  Some vi…. It then injects its nucleic acid (DNA/RNA) int … o the host to replace the host's genetic material. This is a step in the lytic cycle, see the related question below for more details of this entire viral replication process. More: Enveloped and non-enveloped viruses enter a host cell in two ways. The capsid or viral envelope can fuse with the host cell membrane and release the viral material into the host cell, or the virus can trick the host cell
In endocytosis, the virus tricks the host cell by attaching to surface molecules, usually receptors that bind molecules essential to the cell's function, and are then passively carried into the cell. With both methods, the virus is able to penetrate the cell's membrane and enter the cell. It then injects its nucleic acid (DNA/RNA) int … o the host to replace the host's genetic material. This is a step in the lytic cycle, see the related question below for more details of this entire viral replication process. More: Enveloped and non-enveloped viruses enter a host cell in two ways. The capsid or viral envelope can fuse with the host cell membrane and release the viral material into the host cell, or the virus can trick the host
Other viruses can also cause hepatitis (hepatitis A virus, for example), but only HBV and HCV can cause the long-term (chronic) infections that increase a person’s chance of liver cancer. In the United States, less than half of liver cancers are linked to HBV or HCV infection. While HPV infections are very common, cancer caused by HPV is not. Most people infected with HPV will not develop a cancer related to the infection. HPV infections of the mucous membranes can cause genital warts, but they usually have no symptoms.
Viral Infection Types. Animal viruses cause various types of infection. In lytic infections, the virus will break open or lyse the host cell, resulting in the destruction of the host cell. Other viruses may cause persistent infections. In this type of infection, the virus may go dormant and be reactivated at a later time. The host cell may or may not be destroyed. Some viruses can cause persistent infection in different organs and tissues at the same time. Viruses gain entry into host cells via several sites such as the skin, gastrointestinal tract, and respiratory tract. Once an infection has occurred, the virus may replicate in host cells at the site of infection or they may also spread to other locations.