Polybutylene is simply a type of plumbing material that was manufactured between the late 70's and early 90's. It is thought that it was installed in over 6 million homes during that time period. Polybutylene was originally thought to be a versatile and inexpensive product to use.
Polybutylene is a plastic water supply piping that hit the market in the mid to late 1970's and was used in the residential marketplace all the way through the mid 1990's. Typically it is gray in color and it was marketed as the pipe of the future.
Polybutylene is a plastic resin used to make water pipes. Polybutylene Pipe, (a Polymer) was manufactured for installation in the United States from the late 1978 to 1995. Polybutylene was the next big wonder product; cheap to produce, easy to install and no maintenance.
Email. Polybutylene piping is a form of plastic resin and was commonly used for plumbing U.S. homes built between 1978 and 1995. Due to its inexpensive production cost and ability to withstand high water pressure, it was widely seen as a better, cheaper alternative to copper plumbing.
Most are shown with pipe attached. Figure (4) is a new fitting. The piping systems were used for underground water mains and as interior water distribution piping. Industry experts believe it was installed in at least 6 million homes, and some experts indicate it may have been used in as many as 10 million homes.
The most effective way of identifying polybutylene pipe is to have your plumbing inspected by a licensed professional. While inspectors generally cannot determine if there is deterioration in poly piping, licensed plumbers can confirm if you have poly piping installed in your home.
Polybutylene Piping Polybutylene piping is a low-cost piping formed of plastic resin. It is commonly gray, white, or sometimes black in color. Poly piping is employed as a substitute for copper piping in both underground water mains and interior plumbing.
Shell Oil Company was, from 1977 to 1996, the sole producer of polybutylene resin, which was the raw material for the piping.* It is a saturated polymer that, in resin form, can be molded into a number of shapes and forms.