The word riad comes from the Arabian term for garden, ryad. The ancient Roman city of Volubilis provides a reference for the beginnings of riad architecture during the rule of the Idrisid Dynasty. An important design concern was Islamic notions of privacy for women inside residential gardens.
Find and book a riad in Marrakech. Marrakech is Morocco's tourist capital and riads in Marrakech are abundant. Considered as the riads’ Mecca, the red city has more than 800 guesthouses divided amongst its different districts.
A riad is a traditional Moroccan house, located within an ancient medina (walled city), which is designed around a central courtyard and/or garden. As most riads are quite small, the hospitality is intimate. It is not unusual for the riad’s owner or manager to greet you upon arrival and for the staff to offer you a welcoming glass of mint tea…only a few examples of the warm Moroccan hospitality you will experience during your riad stay.
Riads and dars which embody the architectural essence of Moroccan traditional houses are located in Moroccan Kingdom’s medinas. If the word “Dar” is simply translated by house, the term “riad” (or ryad) embodies the idea of a garden on top of that. Invisible for travelers who are walking around the old town, this houses, closed from outside, don’t let show their charm.
Looking into the courtyard. Styles of riads vary, as each riad is decorated to the satisfaction of the owner. The majority of Moroccan riads today blend the beloved traditional design elements of zeliej (tile work), plasterwork, and cedar features with Art Deco era or more modern accents. As most riads are quite small, the hospitality is intimate. It is not unusual for the riad’s owner or manager to greet you upon arrival and for the staff to offer you a welcoming glass of mint tea…only a few examples of the warm Moroccan hospitality you will experience during your riad stay.
A riad (ryad) is an urban house situated in the medina (old city). Moroccan architecture is more inward looking and given to isolation and intimacy rather than showing off. 
The cooling effect of the Riad Laksiba courtyard is no accident. A water feature at the base of a riad courtyard serves two purposes. The ancient Roman city of Volubilis provides a reference for the beginnings of riad architecture during the rule of the Idrisid Dynasty. An important design concern was Islamic notions of privacy for women inside residential gardens.
RIAD is the International Association of Legal Protection Insurers and was founded in 1969 in Rome as “Rencontres Internationales des Assureurs Defense” défense in order to, promote as an independent, organisation the interests of specialists in legal protection of 8 european. countries 
Riads and dars which embody the architectural essence of Moroccan traditional houses are located in Moroccan Kingdom’s medinas. If the word “Dar” is simply translated by house, the term “riad” (or ryad) embodies the idea of a garden on top of that. 
A riad (Arabic: رياض ‎) is a traditional Moroccan house or palace with an interior garden or courtyard. The ancient Roman city of Volubilis provides a reference for the beginnings of riad architecture during the rule of the Idrisid Dynasty. An important design concern was Islamic notions of privacy for women inside residential gardens.