A. Most cases of meningitis are caused by microorganisms, such as viruses, bacteria, fungi, or parasites, that spread into the blood and into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Non-infectious causes include cancers, certain drugs and more. The most common cause of meningitis is viral, that is usually less severe. 
Pathogenic bacteria Heterotrophic bacteria could be divided into saprophytes and parasites. Saprophytes normally do not cause any disease and they survive on dead or decaying materials present in the environment. However, these opportunistic organisms can cause infection when resistance of the host is lowered.
1. Many of the ancient phototrophic and heterotrophic bacteria lived in colonial associations known as A. stalagtites B. stalagmites C. stromatolites D. none of the above 2. The earliest cell fossils are about _______ years old. A. 10 billion B. 3.8 billion C. 4... 
Scoring criteria. 1  Strep throat is caused by streptococcus bacteria. 2  Some bacterial infections are known as staph infections. 3  Not all bacteria cause infections in your body. 4  Use Google to search the Internet for Cyanidium caldarium. 5  Copy this bacteria picture and then label the parts. Day 3 What does the bacteria that causes strep throat look like? Some Diseases Caused by Bacteria Bacterium Disease Symptoms Clostridium tetani Tetanus Muscle spasms; death possible Rickettsia rickettsii Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever Chills, fever, leg & joint pain Salmonella sp.
5.2.2 Yersinia Yersinia is a genus of heterotrophic bacteria with 11 recognized species, some of which cause disease in humans, and both pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains of Yersinia have been found in surface water and unchlorinated drinking-water (Lassen 1972; Caprioli et al. 1978; Cafferkey et al. 1993). 
An infectious disease is a disease that is caused by the invasion of a host by agents whose activities harm the host's tissues (that is, they cause disease) and can be transmitted to other individuals (that is, they are infectious). Together with bacteria, fungi fulfill the indispensable role of decomposers in the environment. Many fungi also infect plants and animals. Examples of diseases caused by fungi are ringworm and histoplasmosis (a mild to severe lung infection transmitted by bat or bird droppings).
Many heterotrophic bacteria also cause diseases such as strep throat, rheumatic fever, cholera, gonorrhea, syphilis, and toxic shock syndrome. Bacteria can cause disease by destroying cells, releasing toxins, contaminating food, or by the reaction of the body to the infecting bacteria. Salmonella is a genus of rod-shaped bacterium whose species cause typoind fever and similar illnesses. The bacteria of this genus are widespread in animals, especially in poultry and pigs. Environmental sources of the organism include water, soil, insects, kitchen surfaces, feces, and raw meat, seafood, and poultry.
Most bacteria live off other organisms. Most of these are saprobes, bacteria that live off dead organic matter. The bacteria that cause disease are heterotrophic parasites. There are also many non-disease-causing bacterial parasites, many of which are helpful to their hosts. These include the normal flora of sprouts or the human body. Animal diseases caused by bacteria include tuberculosis, cholera, syphilis, typhoid fever, and tetanus. Among bacterial plant diseases that affect sprouts are Erwinia Carotovora and Pseudomonas Fluorescents. Some bacteria attack the tissues directly; others produce poisonous substances called toxins.
A. Most cases of meningitis are caused by microorganisms, such as viruses, bacteria, fungi, or parasites, that spread into the blood and into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Non-infectious causes include cancers, certain drugs and more. The most common cause of meningitis is viral, that is usually less severe. 
The vast majority of the bacteria in the body are rendered harmless by the protective effects of the immune system, and some are beneficial. However, several species of bacteria are pathogenic and cause infectious diseases, including cholera, syphilis, anthrax, leprosy, and bubonic plague. If bacteria form a parasitic association with other organisms, they are classed as pathogens. Pathogenic bacteria are a major cause of human death and disease and cause infections such as tetanus, typhoid fever, diphtheria, syphilis, cholera, foodborne illness, leprosy and tuberculosis.