Snake Charmer spotted in India. Ancient Egypt was home to one form of snake charming, though the practice as it exists today likely arose in India. It eventually spread throughout Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa. In previous eras, snake charming was often the charmer's only source of income. This is less true today, as many charmers also scavenge, scrounge, sell items such as amulets and jewelry, or perform at private parties to make ends meet.
Snake charmer in Jaipur (India) in 2007. Snake charming is the practice of pretending to hypnotise a snake by playing an instrument. A typical performance may also include handling the snakes or performing other seemingly dangerous acts, as well as other street performance staples, like juggling and sleight of hand. In previous eras, snake charming was often the charmer's only source of income. This is less true today, as many charmers also scavenge, scrounge, sell items such as amulets and jewelry, or perform at private parties to make ends meet.
Snake charmer may refer to: 1  Snake charming, the practice of hypnotizing snakes. 2  Snake Charmer (EP) , an EP by Jah Wobble, The Edge and Holger Czukay. 3  Snakecharmer (album) , an album by Sort Sol. 4  Snakecharmer, a band and their eponymous debut album headed by Micky Moody.  5 Snake Charmer (song) , a song by Panjabi MC. 
SNAKE CHARMING Wildlife SOS 2014-09-11T14:00:33+00:00. Although banned by the Indian Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, the practice of snake charming is still active in rural parts of India. Every year, thousands of snakes are poached from the forests by certain tribes for snake charming. The most commonly used snakes by snake charmers are Cobras, Pythons, Sand-Boas and Rat Snakes. The endless cycle of snake-charming is one of the major reasons of disappearance of snakes from the Indian forests. Wildlife S.O.S requests you to NEVER pay to watch snake charming. It is an illegal practice.
Snake charming, in fact, may be most dangerous of all to the seemingly “charmed” life of the cobra. “While this crude “training” is probably not particularly cruel, the treatment received by the cobras in many cases is,” says Wolfgang Wuster. 
Snake charming is a very old tradition followed for centuries now. Earlier, it was believed that snakes could hear the charmer’s music and therefore dance according to the tune. However, this myth was later busted when scientists established that snakes do not have ears to hear. So what instrument do snake charmers use, you may wonder. Well, they make use of the famed pungi, which is nothing but a wind instrument that makes tunes according to the manner in which it is blown by the owner. This is widely used in India.
A Snake charm is an item that players use in the two quests The Feud and Port Sarim 's part of Rat Catchers and in the minigame Pyramid Plunder. Players obtain this item by putting a coin into Ali the Snake Charmer 's money pot (players must remove the coin from their money pouch, then use on the money pot). 
Ancient Egypt was home to one form of snake charming, though the practice as it exists today likely arose in India. It eventually spread throughout Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa. Despite a sort of golden age in the 20th century, snake charming is today in danger of dying out. Their venom is like that of a snake, like a deaf serpent that does not hear, that does not respond to the magicians, or to a skilled snake-charmer.. Snake charming as it exists today probably originated in India.
One of the earliest records of snake charming appears in the Bible in Psalm (58:3–5): The wicked turn aside from birth; liars go astray as soon as they are born. Their venom is like that of a snake, like a deaf serpent that does not hear, that does not respond to the magicians, or to a skilled snake-charmer.. Snake charming as it exists today probably originated in India.
Snake charming is the practice of pretending to hypnotise a snake by playing an instrument called pungi or bansuri. A typical performance may also include handling the snakes or performing other seemingly dangerous acts, as well as other street performance staples, like juggling and sleight of hand. Their venom is like that of a snake, like a deaf serpent that does not hear, that does not respond to the magicians, or to a skilled snake-charmer.. Snake charming as it exists today probably originated in India.