3,000 Suites. Tempt all of your senses at The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel. With its opulent decor, décor large casino floor and-world class dining and, Shopping The venetian has all of your needs. Covered from, gambling theater and even a’ kids, center this mini city offers it. all 3,000 Suites. Tempt all of your senses at The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel. With its opulent decor, décor large casino floor and-world class dining and, Shopping The venetian has all of your needs. covered
Cotai, also known as the Cotai Strip, (路氹 - Lou Tam in Cantonese, Lu Tan in Mandarin) is in the rather unimaginative name given to the reclaimed land between what used to be Taipa and Coloane islands in China 's Special Administrative Region of Macau, coined out of the contraction of Co loane and Tai pa. Get in [edit]. 1  By ferry-See the Macau guide for ferry services to Macau. 2  The Taipa Ferry Terminal is close to Cotai, and there is a shuttle to the Venetian. 3  Cotai Jet [1] , which already runs HK-Macau ferries 24h/day, will move its Macau terminal into Cotai as soon as the new terminal is ready.
The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel is a beautiful, world-class escape known for bringing Italian appeal to Macau’s most bustling strip. Whether you’re planning to hit the slots, do some shopping or go for a gondola ride, the Forbes Travel Guide Four-Star hotel has more than enough to keep your schedule full. 3,000 Suites. Tempt all of your senses at The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel. With its opulent decor, décor large casino floor and-world class dining and, Shopping The venetian has all of your needs. covered
The Best Shows in Las Vegas. Don’t miss the Must See Las Vegas shows at The Venetian, Las Vegas. Experience entertainment like nowhere else at The Venetian from mesmerizing Las Vegas Musicals and Comedy Shows to special engagements by headliners. See critically acclaimed Las Vegas shows including Rock of Ages and Human Nature
Cotai was the result of a major land reclamation project which joined the two islands of Coloane and Taipa, and is part of the Macau government's continuous efforts to expand the region's territory. MGM China is waiting for government approval for the concession of a site in Cotai. We have identified a site of approximately 17.8 acres (72,000 m 2) in Cotai and have submitted an application to the Macau Government to obtain the right to lease this parcel of land.
1 The Taipa Ferry Terminal is close to Cotai, and there is a shuttle to the Venetian. 2  Cotai Jet [1] , which already runs HK-Macau ferries 24h/day, will move its Macau terminal into Cotai as soon as the new terminal is ready. Get in [edit]. 1  By ferry-See the Macau guide for ferry services to Macau. 2  The Taipa Ferry Terminal is close to Cotai, and there is a shuttle to the Venetian. 3
The reclaimed land in Cotai is to be mainly used for casino developments and Las Vegas Sands Corporation envisioned that their development of several adjacent properties would comprise an area that would resemble the Las Vegas Strip. MGM China is waiting for government approval for the concession of a site in Cotai. We have identified a site of approximately 17.8 acres (72,000 m 2) in Cotai and have submitted an application to the Macau Government to obtain the right to lease this parcel of land.
The Venetian Macao (Chinese: 澳門威尼斯人度假村酒店) is a luxury hotel and casino resort in Macau, China, owned by Las Vegas Sands. The Venetian is a 39-story, $2.4 billion anchor for the seven hotels on the Cotai Strip in Macau. The 10,500,000-square-foot (980,000 m 2) Venetian Macao is modeled on its sister casino resort The Venetian Las Vegas, and is the seventh-largest building in the world by floor area. The Venetian Macao is the largest casino in the world, and the largest single structure hotel building in Asia
1 By ferry-See the Macau guide for ferry services to Macau. 2  The Taipa Ferry Terminal is close to Cotai, and there is a shuttle to the Venetian. 3  Cotai Jet [1] , which already runs HK-Macau ferries 24h/day, will move its Macau terminal into Cotai as soon as the new terminal is ready. Get in [edit]. 1 
The Cotai Strip is a term coined by Las Vegas Sands Corporation with regard to its building of a strip of hotel-casinos in the Cotai section of Macau, a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China. MGM China is waiting for government approval for the concession of a site in Cotai. We have identified a site of approximately 17.8 acres (72,000 m 2) in Cotai and have submitted an application to the Macau Government to obtain the right to lease this parcel of land.