Drug-induced liver diseases are diseases of the liver that are caused by physician-prescribed medications, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, hormones, herbs, illicit (recreational) drugs, and environmental toxins. 
Hepatitis Overview. Viral hepatitis, including hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C, are distinct diseases that affect the liver and have different hepatitis symptoms and treatments. Other causes of hepatitis include recreational drugs and prescription medications. Hepatitis type is determined by laboratory tests. 
(See Chronic hepatitis) Sinusoidal obstruction syndrome. Medications that injure non-parenchymal and endothelial cells in the liver can cause a sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, also known as veno-occlusive disease. This form of drug induced liver injury is rare but can be severe and result in acute liver failure. Medications can cause a subtle injury to the liver that leads to regenerative nodules with minimal or no fibrosis, but resulting in portal hypertension and liver dysfunction. This form of drug induced liver disease is rare and occurs largely with long term use of cytotoxic agents.
Toxic hepatitis occurs when your liver develops inflammation because of exposure to a toxic substance. Toxic hepatitis may also develop when you take too much of a prescription or over-the-counter medication. One of the liver's roles involves removing and breaking down most drugs and chemicals from your bloodstream. Breaking down toxins creates byproducts that can damage the liver
Therefore, many different medications can cause liver problems. The symptoms are similar to those of viral hepatitis, which include a yellowish skin tone (jaundice), nausea, vomiting, and white or clay-colored stools. Some patients may have no symptoms. Some medications can interfere with the flow of bile, which can also lead to liver inflammation. These include erythromycin, oral contraceptives, chlorpromazine, and anabolic steroids. Usually, drug-related hepatitis subsides within days or weeks after the offending drug is stopped.
Viral hepatitis is the most common cause of hepatitis worldwide. Other common causes of non-viral hepatitis include toxic and drug-induced, alcoholic, autoimmune, fatty liver, and metabolic disorders. Less commonly some bacterial, parasitic, fungal, mycobacterial and protozoal infections can cause hepatitis. A large number of medications and other chemical agents can cause hepatitis. In the United States acetaminophen, antibiotics, and central nervous system medications are among the most common causes of drug-induced hepatitis.
This inflammation can be caused by contagious diseases such as viral infections. Hepatitis can also be caused by exposure to alcohol, certain medications, chemicals, poisons, and other toxins, or by other diseases. hepatitis C (HCV) is one of the many viruses that can cause inflammation of the liver. Inflammation of the liver caused by infection with HCV is referred to as hepatitis C. 1  If the infection does not resolve, it becomes chronic (ongoing, long term) and can cause chronic liver disease, which can be serious or even fatal.
Acute hepatitis can be self-limiting (healing on its own), can progress to chronic hepatitis, or, rarely, can cause acute liver failure. Chronic hepatitis may have no symptoms, or may progress over time to fibrosis (scarring of the liver) and cirrhosis (chronic liver failure). A large number of medications and other chemical agents can cause hepatitis. In the United States acetaminophen, antibiotics, and central nervous system medications are among the most common causes of drug-induced hepatitis.
Worldwide, viral hepatitis is the most common cause of liver inflammation. Other causes include autoimmune diseases and ingestion of toxic substances (notably alcohol), certain medications (such as paracetamol), some industrial organic solvents, and plants. A large number of medications and other chemical agents can cause hepatitis. In the United States acetaminophen, antibiotics, and central nervous system medications are among the most common causes of drug-induced hepatitis.