Reflex actions. When a receptor is stimulated it sends a signal to the central nervous system, where the brain coordinates the response, but sometimes a very quick response is needed, one that does not involve the brain: this is a reflex action.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: No. Reflex actions do not involve the brain. Reflex actions are controlled by the spinal cord. What a bunch of low info you got racked up! I bet those guys missed the 'reflex' part! Any reflex action is a result of the spinal cord. The brain usually controls all voluntary actions i.e actions that you want to do.
A reflex arc is a neural pathway that controls a reflex action. In higher animals, most sensory neurons do not pass directly into the brain, but synapse in the spinal cord. There are two types of reflex arc: autonomic reflex arc (affecting inner organs) and somatic reflex arc (affecting muscles).
Some reflex arcs can include a coordination centre within the spinal cord or brain prior to stimulation of the motor nerve. Reflex arcs can involve single or multiple segments up and down the body, although reflex arcs do not require brain input in order to function. However, the brain can act to modulate reflexes. 
Reflex Action. A deliberate action, such as raising a spoon to the mouth, involves consciousness. We decide to raise the spoon, then we do it. Most reflexes, however, do not involve the brain; they are fast, involuntary responses that travel over what is known as a reflex arc. A reflex arc consists of a stimulus, for example extreme heat, which creates an impulse that travels along sensory nerves and neurons to the spinal cord. 
Reflex arc is the path followed by nerve impulses to produce the reflex action. It usually includes receptor organ, afferent nerve, nerve center, efferent nerve, effector organ or a muscle. ex-. Reflex actions are sudden responses, which do not involve any thinking. REFLEX ACTION. The involuntary functioning or movement of any organ or body part in response to a particular stimulus which occurs in very short duration of time(within a second usually) and does not involve will or any thinking of brain is called reflex action. ex-.
Best Answer: Monosynaptic reflexes such as the patellar reflex do not involve the brain since no intermediate (relay) neurone is involved. Other polysynaptic reflexes do involve the brain since a relay neurone is involved in the reflex arc which connects with longitudinal neurones running to and from the brain. You cannot suppress a monosynaptic reflex but you can suppress a polysynaptic reflex due the involvement of the brain. Source(s): Report Abuse. No it is not! The reflex arc works from the sensory neuron to the spinal cord, then directly to a motor neuron to perform the 'reflex.' The brain has no idea until the message then travels from the reflex action through another sensory neuron back to the brain to inform it of what just happened.
When a reflex arc consists of only two neurons in an animal (one sensory neuron, and one motor neuron), it is defined as monosynaptic. Monosynaptic refers to the presence of a single chemical synapse. There are two types of reflex arc: autonomic reflex arc (affecting inner organs) and somatic reflex arc (affecting muscles).