These polyps are not generally thought to increase the risk for colorectal cancer. Other benign polyps are sometimes referred to as “pre-cancerous.” These polyps are not malignant, themselves, but have a chance of becoming cancerous if not removed. Examples include adenomatous and hamartomatous polyps. Adenomatous polyps that have tubular or villous characteristics have a higher chance of becoming cancerous. Adenomatous and hamartomatous polyps are also the types of polyps that are usually associated with hereditary colorectal cancer syndromes. 
Hyperplasia is considered to be a physiological (normal) response to a specific stimulus, and the cells of a hyperplastic growth remain subject to normal regulatory control mechanisms. (May 2015). Hyperplasia (from ancient Greek ὑπέρ huper, over + πλάσις plasis, formation), or hypergenesis, is an increase in the amount of organic tissue that results from cell proliferation. It may lead to the gross enlargement of an organ and the term is sometimes confused with benign neoplasia or benign tumor. Hyperplasia is a common preneoplastic response to stimulus. Microscopically, cells resemble normal cells but are increased in numbers. Sometimes cells may also be increased in size (hypertrophy)
Hyperplastic polyps are benign tumors of the small bowel, which in most cases grow slowly and remain asymptomatic. More rarely, the tumors might grow at a more rapid rate or grow larger than normal, causing symptoms such as pain and digestive problems. Endoscopies commonly identify hyperplastic polyps. Removal of polyps may be achieved through an endoscopy. In rare cases, hyperplastic polyps can cause intestinal pain. The presence of multiple hyperplastic polyps may increase one's risk of colon cancer.
Hyperplastic polyps refer to benign tumors of the small bowel. Endoscopies commonly identify hyperplastic polyps. Removal of polyps may be achieved through an endoscopy. In rare cases, hyperplastic polyps can cause intestinal pain. The presence of multiple hyperplastic polyps may increase one's risk of colon cancer.
A polyp is a projection (growth) of tissue from the inner lining of the colon into the lumen (hollow center) of the colon. Different types of polyps look different under the microscope. Polyps are benign (non-cancerous) growths, but cancer can start in some types of polyps. 
A colorectal polyp is a polyp (fleshy growth) occurring on the lining of the colon or rectum. Untreated colorectal polyps can develop into colorectal cancer. Colorectal polyps are often classified by their behaviour (i.e. benign vs. malignant) and/or etiology (e.g. as a consequence of inflammatory bowel disease). Although thought to exhibit no malignant potential it has been shown that hyperplastic polyps on the right side of the colon do exhibit a malignant potential. This occurs through multiple mutations which affect the DNA-mismatch-repair pathways.
hyperplastic polyp. n. A benign small sessile polyp of the large bowel with lengthening and cystic dilation of mucosal glands. Also called metaplastic polyp. 
They may be benign (e.g. hyperplastic polyp), pre-malignant (e.g. tubular adenoma) or malignant (e.g. colorectal adenocarcinoma). Although thought to exhibit no malignant potential it has been shown that hyperplastic polyps on the right side of the colon do exhibit a malignant potential. This occurs through multiple mutations which affect the DNA-mismatch-repair pathways.
Adenomatous polyps — Two-thirds of colon polyps are adenomas. Most of these polyps do not develop into cancer, although they have the potential to become cancerous. Adenomas are classified by their size, general appearance, and their specific features as seen under the microscope. The tissue covering a polyp may look the same as normal colon tissue, or, there may be tissue changes ranging from subtle color changes to ulceration and bleeding. Some polyps are flat (sessile) and others extend out on a stalk (pedunculated). Colonoscopy is the best test for the follow-up examination of polyps.