Teeth are the hardest part of the human body and although dental x-rays have been the standard of care for over a hundred years, they cannot see it all. There are two reasons for that. First of all, if a cavity is in the middle of a tooth, there is a lot of solid tooth structure that can obscure the area of decay. It is like looking at a bagel from the side. You can not see the hole, even a big one in the middle. All dental x-rays are taken from the side.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Johnellishartford. Confidence votes 24.8K. X-rays locate cavities in teeth. Dentists... holes and your dentist who uses special tools. X-rays are used to locate cavities in teeth. X-rays are also often useless in detecting decay on the surface of the tooth directly facing the x-ray. If you doubt your dentist, please get a second opinion. Its your right, and its your mouth! 1 person found this useful.
Dental cavities (caries) are holes in the two outer layers of a tooth called the enamel and the dentin. The enamel is the outermost white hard surface and the dentin is the yellow layer just beneath enamel. Both layers serve to protect the inner living tooth tissue called the pulp, where blood vessels and nerves reside. The acid plaque produced by these bacteria cause the hard inorganic layers of the enamel and dentin to soften. The softened layers are then dissolved by saliva, leaving a hole (cavity) in the tooth. Unless filled by a dentist, the cavity can continue to erode and damage the inner pulp of
Cavities are what you get from tooth decay -- damage to the tooth. Tooth decay can affect both the outer coating of a tooth (called enamel) and the inner layer (called dentin). This exposes the roots of your teeth to plaque. And if you eat a lot of sugary or high-carb foods, you’re more likely to get cavities. Older adults sometimes get decay around the edges of fillings. Seniors often have a lot of dental work because they didn't get fluoride or good oral care when they were kids.
While we suggest that our patients avoid sugar and brush and floss to avoid cavities, let’s face it, for most people, some cavities are a part of life. In fact, dental cavities are the most common disease known to mankind. There are two reasons for that. First of all, if a cavity is in the middle of a tooth, there is a lot of solid tooth structure that can obscure the area of decay. It is like looking at a bagel from the side. You can not see the hole, even a big one in the middle. All dental x-rays are taken
A Dr. William M. Litaker, Dentist, answered. Cavities are detected and diagnosed by a dentist. Your dentist will use visual inspection, tactile inspection, and x-rays to diagnose cavities. A dark spot or hole in your tooth could be a sign of a cavity. Regular dental visits are important to diagnose and prevent cavities. When visiting your dentist there are several methods he or she may use to detect cavities. First is visual inspection of the teeth looking for discoloration, enamel destruction, or holes in the teeth. Secondly, your dentist may use a probe or dental explorer to check the crevices of your teeth for decay.
its actually pretty simple:cavities are caused by bits of food left in your teeth over night. the food form plaque, which turns into acids that drill a hole to your teeth. bas … ically, the best way to avoid it is to floss and brush your teeth after each meal, and especially before you go to bed. X-rays are also often useless in detecting decay on the surface of the tooth directly facing the x-ray. If you doubt your dentist, please get a second opinion. Its your right, and its your mouth! 1 person found this useful.