1 The price range for service dogs can be anywhere from $3,000 to $25,000, which greatly depends on the type of the dog as well as the type of training that the dog has received. 2  Service dogs can cost more than the regular pet dogs since they are specifically trained to assist a person that has a disability. 1 The Colorado Service Dogs is a company that offers service dogs on a monthly basis or within 2 years. 2  They offer the service dogs anywhere from $1,500 to $2,000 for 2 years. 3  This will include several perks such as food and visits to the vet
There is a $50.00 application fee. When an applicant has been approved to receive a Hearing Dog and is ready to be placed on the waiting list, we require a $500.00 Good Faith deposit, which is returned after the person and the Hearing Dog have been together for one year. 
Hearing Dogs. Hearing dogs are a type of service dog individually trained to alert their deaf or hard of hearing handler to a variety of environmental sounds such as: the doorbell, door knock, timers, smoke alarms, horns, emergency vehicles, a baby crying, a person calling to the handler, etc. 
Best Answer: It depends on where they come from. Most programs have some sort of charitable donations to offset at least part of the cost. The actual cost of training a service dog is typically somewhere from $20,000 to $50,000, depending on how much the dog is trained to do. Some programs (such as many guide dog programs) place their dogs at no charge. Most charge at least a few hundred dollars to $7,000. You can't get a service dog for your grandma. 
1 Kellynnabozny.com is a site that mentions that the cost to get a service dog can be anywhere from $7,500 to $15,000. 2  The price includes harnesses as well as different equipment that dog uses to play around. 1 The Colorado Service Dogs is a company that offers service dogs on a monthly basis or within 2 years. 2  They offer the service dogs anywhere from $1,500 to $2,000 for 2 years. 3  This will include several perks such as food and visits to the vet
At 4 Paws For Ability, the cost to train and place a service dog with a disabled child starts at $22,000. However, our families engage in fundraising activities as volunteers for 4 Paws to qualify for a free service dog. Each family is asked to help raise at least $15,000. When using shelter dogs, more than 75% of them became flunkies and went on to be the pet dogs they were meant to be. With our purpose breeding program, less than 5% of all dogs bred are dropped from service work and adopted out into pet or therapy dog homes.
Golden Ears' Hearing Dog Training is a 1 to 2 year program. Sixty (60) hours of in class training is required. This can depend on the level of skills the dog and partner have accomplished and the training the dog and their human partner need to have to complete qualifications. Currently the minimum age for a teen to qualify for a hearing dog is 18 years old, depending on the maturity of the child. We do not train for children under the age of 18. The person receiving the dog must be able to be completely responsible for the care and ongoing needs of the dog themselves.
How long does it take to get a hearing dog? Training a hearing dog in basic obedience, public behavior, and sound work can take from 6 months to 1 year. Most programs do not start formal training until the dog is at least 6 months old. Most of the best training programs have a waiting list of one year or more from the time you start the application process. Most dogs are 18 months to 3 years of age when they are placed with a human partner. A few programs will charge the full cost of training a dog for you, which can be $20,000 or more, but most training programs are operated by nonprofit organizations which use donations to defray their expenses. You will usually be asked to pay an application fee.