Tides affect the earth's rotation in two sharply contrasting ways. One way, caused by tidal friction, produces an extremely slow secular change in rotation. The other way, caused by the continual movements of the tides about the planet, produces very small but very rapid changes in rotation. 
You could say that there is a high tide on the side nearest the Moon because the Moon pulls the water away from the Earth, and a high tide on the opposite side because the Moon pulls the Earth away from the water on the far side. The tidal effects are greatly exaggerated in the sketches. Even though the Sun is 391 times as far away from the Earth as the Moon, its force on the Earth is about 175 times as large. Yet its tidal effect is smaller than that of the Moon because tides are caused by the difference in gravity field across the Earth.
Tides are caused by the gravitational pull of the sun and the moon  upon the oceans of the earth. The sun has the greatest pull. The  tides are greatest during a new moon wh … en the sun and the moon are  pulling from the same direction. The gravitational attraction of the moon causes the oceans to bulge out in the direction of the moon. Another bulge occurs on the opposite side, since the Earth is also being pulled toward the moon (and away from the water on the far side). Ocean levels fluctuate daily as the sun, moon and earth interact.
Together, the gravitational effects of the moon and the sun affect the Earths tides on a monthly basis. Click the image to see an animation. The moon is a major influence on the Earths tides, but the sun also generates considerable tidal forces. Solar tides are about half as large as lunar tides and are expressed as a variation of lunar tidal patterns, not as a separate set of tides. The elliptial orbits of the moon around the Earth and the Earth around the sun have substantial effects on the earths tides. Click the image for a larger view. Just as the angles of the sun, moon and Earth affect tidal heights over the course of a lunar month, so do their distances to one another.
The Moon is the main cause of the tides on Earth, by the force called gravity. The Moon pulls the waters in the oceans and seas towards it through gravity. As the Earth rotat … es this bulge of water causes a high tide on the Earth roughly under the Moon. The gravitational attraction of the moon causes the oceans to bulge out in the direction of the moon. Another bulge occurs on the opposite side, since the Earth is also being pulled toward the moon (and away from the water on the far side). Ocean levels fluctuate daily as the sun, moon and earth interact.
The tidal force is a secondary effect of the force of gravity and is responsible for the tides. It arises because the gravitational force exerted by one body on another is not constant across it; the nearest side is attracted more strongly than the farthest side. 
Earth tide or body tide is the displacement of the solid Earth 's surface caused by the gravity of the Moon and Sun. 
Sun's Tidal Effect. Even though the Sun is 391 times as far away from the Earth as the Moon, its force on the Earth is about 175 times as large. Yet its tidal effect is smaller than that of the Moon because tides are caused by the difference in gravity field across the Earth.
Cause and Effect of Tides Causes: Tides are caused mainly by the gravitational pull of the Moon on the waters of the ocean. The Moon revolves around the Earth in the exact same direction as the Earth rotates on its axis, but they travel at different speeds.
The Moon affects tides on Earth through gravity. The Sun also affects Earth's tides, but not as much due to its greater distance from the Earth. It's not the simple force of attraction that makes the tides, but the difference in the attractive force on the opposite sides of the Earth. The gravitational attraction of the moon causes the oceans to bulge out in the direction of the moon. Another bulge occurs on the opposite side, since the Earth is also being pulled toward the moon (and away from the water on the far side). Ocean levels fluctuate daily as the sun, moon and earth interact.