Blueprint paper is a specially-coated paper that turns blue where it is exposed to light, while areas kept in the dark remain white. Blueprints were one of the first ways to make copies of plans or drawings. Here's how to make blueprint paper yourself. Make Blueprint Paper. 1  In a very dim room or in the dark: pour the potassium ferricyanide and iron(III) ammonium citrate solutions together into a petri dish. 2  Stir the solution to mix it.
[ TOP ]. Examinations are constructed using an examination blueprint — a widely accepted tool used within professions to design examinations. The blueprint, also referred to as the test specifications, identifies the content areas covered on the examination
A ready reference / an array of nature of questions of a question paper is called Blue Print of the question paper.A lay out of nature of questions in respect of Knowledge, Understanding, Application, Marks, Topics, Estimated Difficulty Level etc is called Blue Print of the Question Paper. Ref: An architect's plan for a building is often called a blueprint, and they actually were, at one point, produced with white lines on blue paper.
Architectural drawing, Canada, 1936. A blueprint is a reproduction of a technical drawing, documenting an architecture or an engineering design, using a contact print process on light-sensitive sheets. Introduced in the 19th century, the process allowed rapid and accurate reproduction of documents used in construction and industry. In the early 1940s, cyanotype blueprint began to be supplanted by diazo prints, also known as whiteprints, which have blue lines on a white background; thus these drawings are also called blue-lines or bluelines. Other comparable dye-based prints are known as blacklines.
Various base materials have been used for blueprints. Paper was a common choice; for more durable prints linen was sometimes used, but with time, the linen prints would shrink slightly. To combat this problem, printing on imitation vellum and, later, polyester film (Mylar) was implemented. In the early 1940s, cyanotype blueprint began to be supplanted by diazo prints, also known as whiteprints, which have blue lines on a white background; thus these drawings are also called blue-lines or bluelines. Other comparable dye-based prints are known as blacklines.
Often a recommendation of the external examiners and the accreditation board is the blueprinting of undergraduate examination questions. A blueprint of examination on individual assessment tool reports the students’ learning outcome. It produces a link between test items and students learning objective. 1 Blueprint of examination is the widely used assessment tool that provides list of information about: 1. Type of measurement tools and proportion of each question format in assessment shown in respective weighting colunm. 2  2. 3  Topics and the level of training for each topic and the relevant learning objectives.
For each content area, the blueprint outlines the weighting of the area, the topics, levels of competence, and learning objectives and competencies (level 4 and PACE) examined. The blueprint also provides information on the proportion of each question type presented in the examination (for example, , short-answer). Examinations are constructed using an examination blueprint — a widely accepted tool used within professions to design examinations. The blueprint, also referred to as the test specifications, identifies the content areas covered on the examination
Report Abuse. blueprint of a question paper is the pattern of quedtion paper in which it is given that a each lesson carry how many marks.how many long answer in a q paper.short answer and very short answer etc and each carry how many marks. Bilal · 2 years ago. Thumbs up. 
A blueprint used to consist of white lines on a blue background. A more recent process uses blue lines on a white background. The term blueprint is usually used to describe two printing methods, the blueprint and the diazotype. Blueprinting is the older method, invented in 1842. The drawing to be copied, drawn on translucent paper, is placed against paper sensitized with a mixture of ferric ammonium citrate and potassium ferricyanide.