It is renewable! It is considered ' Renewable Energy ' because... The technology used to convert the sun's power into electricity does not produce smoke (carbon dioxide and other air pollutants). Tapping the sun's energy does not usually destroy the environment. Solar panels do not generate electricity directly. Instead they heat up water directly. A pump pushes cold water from a storage tank through pipes in the solar panel. The water is heated by heat energy from the Sun and returns to the tank.
Turning the energy of the ocean's waves and tides into power that we can use is a new and unproven technology. However, the potential is there for a significant renewable and environmentally clean energy source. There are also three main ways that tidal energy is harnessed: 1  Tidal Barrages-A tidal barrage works like a dam. 2  When the tide goes high, the reservoir fills up. 3  When the tide drops the dam lets the water out. 4  In both directions the moving water can spin the blades of turbines to create electricity.
Some people think tidal energy is a very good source of renewable, clean energy and that we should use it in as many places as we can. Other people think that since tidal energy plants can only produce electricity for about ten hours every day, it is not worth the danger to plants, animals, and ecosystems. Benefits of Tidal Energy. Tidal energy is a good source of alternative energy because it does not create any pollution of any kind. It is completely safe for our environment. It is also good because a high amount of energy can be captured using the tides and it does not cost much to turn it to electricity.
We asked Paul Alivisatos, deputy laboratory director at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California and a leader of their Helios solar energy research project, to explain how people capture energy from sunlight and how we can do it better. 
Nuclear reactions energize stars, including our Sun. The energy we capture for use on Earth comes largely from the Sun or from nuclear forces local to our own planet. Sunlight is by far the predominant source, and it contains a surprisingly large amount of energy. 
The Sun. Most of the energy we capture for use on Earth originates in the nuclear reactions powering our Sun. Coal, oil, natural gas, biomass, and even the wind and hydropower we harness to generate electricity, originally derive their energy content from the Sun. Learn how our local star is the ultimate energy source
Play Power Up! Play Power Up! Capture clean energy from the wind and the Sun to produce enough electricity to run the town. Move your wind turbine up and down to keep it in the strongest, fastest winds. Keep your solar panels in the bright sunlight and out of the rain. See if you can light up the whole town. 
Solar power is energy from the sun. Solar is the Latin word for sun and it's a powerful source of energy. Without it, there will be no life. Solar energy is considered as a serious source of energy for many years because of the vast amounts of energy that is made freely available, if harnessed by modern technology. Solar panels do not generate electricity directly. Instead they heat up water directly. A pump pushes cold water from a storage tank through pipes in the solar panel. The water is heated by heat energy from the Sun and returns to the tank.
Electricity can be produced using several kinds of renewable resources. Wind energy can produce electricity in regions where steady winds blow. Giant wind turbines capture the wind’s energy and use it to power generators. Biomass is material that is formed from living organisms, such as wood or agricultural wastes. Biomass can be burned to produce electricity, or be converted to a gas and used for fuel. Geothermal energy uses hot water or steam from deep beneath the earth’s surface to produce electricity. Hydroelectric power plants use the energy of falling water to spin generator turbines. 