Prunes. Prunes act as a natural laxative and they contain fiber so including prunes or prune juice in your diet may help to manage constipation. Everyone responds to dietary changes differently so you may need to experiment with how much you need to get relief. 
Report Abuse. Prune juice and dried prunes work well as natural laxatives. Prunes are actually dried plums; in 2001 the FDA changed their name from prunes to dried plums. Prunes work as laxatives because they contain sorbitol, which is often used as a sweetner and which can cause loose stools
Although prunes are a good source of fiber, the fiber is filtered out of prune juice before it is bottled. Prune juice laxative works, because prunes and prune juice contain sorbitol. Sorbitol is a simple sugar. Like glucose, it has a 6-carbon backbone with hydrogen atoms and hydroxyl attached to that backbone. Prune juice laxative is made from plumbs, but it does not contain the fiber that plumbs have. Sorbitol in prune juice laxative is responsible for its laxative effect. It is also responsible for the diarrhea and intestinal gas that can result from prune juice laxative. References:
Firstly, prune juice is rich in a substance known as dihydrophenylisatin, which is a laxative that aids muscle contractions. Secondly, it contains a number of different sugars like sucrose, fructose and sorbitol that help in drawing fluid into the intestines, thus helping the passage of waste out of the body. a€¢ â if you are suffering from chronic, constipation or have not passed bowels for two to three, days then try this combination recipe of prune juice and apple. Juice drink two to three glasses of prune juice first thing in the morning on an empty. Stomach after half an, hour top this up with a glass of apple. juice
• Sorbitol Is an Osmotic Laxative. Prune juice laxative is a natural remedy for constipation. Prune juice laxative is made from plumbs, but it does not contain the fiber that plumbs have. Sorbitol in prune juice laxative is responsible for its laxative effect. It is also responsible for the diarrhea and intestinal gas that can result from prune juice laxative. References:
Both plums and prunes contain fiber, a natural laxative. Prune juice has no significant fiber, but it does retain the sorbitol from the plums. Sorbitol is a natural osmotic agent.Calories, sugar or iron aside, prune juice for constipation can be a beneficial, natural option. References: Both prunes and plums are high in fiber which acts as a natural laxative. Even though prune juice is made from high fiber prunes, it is not a significant source of fiber. Prune juice is derived from steamed prunes.
Prune juice acts as natural laxative, and has apparently been used for a good long time for constipation, not only because prunes have some insoluble fiber (the kind that helps you pass food through your digestive system), but prunes contain sorbitol and dihydrophenylisatin which are natural laxatives. 
Prunes, now officially named “dried plums,” and prune juice are great options for relieving constipation and helping you to stay regular. Even better, they help your body function in a variety of ways and can even prevent the onset of certain conditions. Eating prunes, or dried plums, can alleviate constipation. According to a study in Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition, dried plums and their derivatives, such as prune juice, can prevent constipation and even possibly colon cancer.
Another reason why people who have used prune juice for constipation may have had very good reasons to do so, is the discovery of another compound in prunes and prune juice that acts as a chemical laxative. But the benefits of prune juice as well as prunes don't stop at constipation. As with most fruits, prunes contain generous amounts of a variety of vitamins, minerals and other healthful compounds. In fact, they're a concentrated source of energy because they lose water during the drying process.
For starters, prunes, also called dried plums, are high in insoluble fiber, which is perhaps one of the reasons they help prevent constipation. And because it's incredibly absorbent, insoluble fiber soaks up large amounts of water, making stools larger and easier to pass, decreasing transit time. But the benefits of prune juice as well as prunes don't stop at constipation. As with most fruits, prunes contain generous amounts of a variety of vitamins, minerals and other healthful compounds. In fact, they're a concentrated source of energy because they lose water during the drying process.