The programme takes three years to complete. The first year is the full-time PGCE year. The next two years are studied part-time. During the part-time years participants complete Masters level modules. Most participants in years 2 and 3 are full-time teachers, although this is not a requirement.
Master's-level study is now a well established component of PGCE courses and this new edition of the best selling student guide offers a clear and concise overview of Master's level aspects in teacher education. Doing your PGCE at M level is a valuable guide designed to enable students to achieve success. Its approach, using clear explanations and case studies enable trainees to engage at a critical level and understand the potential benefits this can bring to them personally and professionally
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) is a one-year higher education course in England, Wales and Northern Ireland which provides training in order to allow graduates to become teachers within maintained schools. This left the PGCE with a rather inappropriate name as a postgraduate certificate is a lower level than the postgraduate diploma, requiring only half the amount of work. As a result, the PGCE in Scotland were renamed to Professional Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE).
The MA Education is an innovative qualification for those completing a Masters level PGCE course at Durham University. In 2000 the PGCE became masters level enabling students to accumulate masters credits as part of the programme. The first year is the full-time PGCE year. The next two years are studied part-time. During the part-time years participants complete Masters level modules. Most participants in years 2 and 3 are full-time teachers, although this is not a requirement.
The PGCE is a one-year course for existing degree holders, and the most common postgraduate route into teaching. It is based at and coordinated by a university or other higher education institution, though students spend a large proportion of the course working in placement schools. Qualified teacher status (QTS) is required in England and Wales to work as a teacher of children in state schools under local authority control, and in special education schools. A similar status exists under a different name in Scotland and Northern Ireland.
By the end of the course you will have a PGCE (PCET) the full award for teaching in the post-compulsory education and training sector: PTLLS (Preparing to Teach in the Lifelong Sector) and DET (Diploma in Education and Training). The PGCE (PCET) is popular with graduates whose degree subjects are not widely taught in secondary schools, such as law, nursing, psychology and dance.
The PGCE sits at Level 7 of the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications, while the Professional Certificate in Education sits a Level 6. The PGCE is not a postgraduate degree, it is instead an advanced but non-degree qualification (as it is directly related to a career, it is considered vocational). This left the PGCE with a rather inappropriate name as a postgraduate certificate is a lower level than the postgraduate diploma, requiring only half the amount of work. As a result, the PGCE in Scotland were renamed to Professional Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE).
The PGCE is the main postgraduate route for teacher training in England and Wales, but there are a number of other ways to gain QTS. See Qualified Teacher Status#Routes to QTS. This left the PGCE with a rather inappropriate name as a postgraduate certificate is a lower level than the postgraduate diploma, requiring only half the amount of work. As a result, the PGCE in Scotland were renamed to Professional Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE).