If the employer requires the employee to work 42 hours in a given week, the extra two hours are paid at time-and-a-half and the employee earns a total of $430 for the week (40 hours x $10 per hour, plus 2 overtime hours x $15 per hour). The pay for these employees is generally stated as a gross, hourly rate, such as $13.52 per hour.. Again, the gross amount refers to the pay an employee would receive before withholdings are made for such things as taxes, contributions, and savings plans. Employees receiving wages are often paid weekly or biweekly.
In Salary and Pay Rates. Depends on what state you live in and if its a fixed salary or hourly salary, for instance, in MA (time + 1/2 for overtime by law) if you get paid $10 per hour and work more t … han 40 hours in a week, every hour over that you will get paid $15. Do salaried employees get paid overtime? Depends on what state you live in and if its a fixed salary or hourly salary, for instance, in MA (time + 1/2 for overtime by law) if you get paid $10 per hour and work more t … han 40 hours in a week, every hour over that you will get paid $15.
Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed. In fact, a 2009 study of employees indicated that those who negotiated salary saw an average increase of $4,913 from their original salary offer. In addition, the employer is able to feel more confident that they have hired an employee with strong interpersonal skills and the ability to deal with conflict.
(If the manager is paid bi-weekly, the gross pay would be $1,846.15 for each of the 26 pay periods.) A salaried employee's work period usually ends on payday; for example, a paycheck on January 31 usually covers the work period of January 16-31. The pay for these employees is generally stated as a gross, hourly rate, such as $13.52 per hour.. Again, the gross amount refers to the pay an employee would receive before withholdings are made for such things as taxes, contributions, and savings plans. Employees receiving wages are often paid weekly or biweekly.
Since salaried employees earn a specified annual amount, it is likely that their gross pay for each pay period is the same recurring amount. For example, if a manager's salary is $48,000 per year and salaries are paid semi-monthly, the manager's gross pay will be $2,000 for each of the 24 pay periods. The pay for these employees is generally stated as a gross, hourly rate, such as $13.52 per hour.. Again, the gross amount refers to the pay an employee would receive before withholdings are made for such things as taxes, contributions, and savings plans. Employees receiving wages are often paid weekly or biweekly.
Monthly. If you are paid on a monthly basis, you are paid once a month. Your pay date is usually at the end of the month, and you are paid 12 times per year. This pay structure is usually the least preferred among hourly employees. You may not consider how often your paycheck will come, but it is an extremely important aspect of budgeting and job transition. In most places, state law dictates how often you must be paid at a minimum, but companies are able to pay more frequently if they would like.
Since salary constitutes wages at straight time for all hours worked, the employer owes an additional half-time for the hours in excess of 40 in a week. An example follows: Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. 
A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week. In fact, a 2009 study of employees indicated that those who negotiated salary saw an average increase of $4,913 from their original salary offer. In addition, the employer is able to feel more confident that they have hired an employee with strong interpersonal skills and the ability to deal with conflict.