I've been taught the following distinction: 1  Use Yours sincerely when you know the person you are addressing, i.e. 2  Mr. Smith. 3  Use Yours faithfully when you are starting your letter with Dear Sir/Madam, or a similar construction. 1
If the letter begins with Dear Sir, Dear Sirs, Dear Madam, or Dear Sir/Madam, the COMPLIMENTARY CLOSE should be  Yours faithfully . If the letter begins with a personal name, e.g. Dear Mr James, Dear Mrs Robinson, or Dear Ms Jasmin, it should be  Yours sincerely . 1 Use Yours faithfully when you are starting your letter with Dear Sir/Madam, or a similar construction.
Yours truly is also used in professional correspondence when writing to a client by his name, but signing the letter in the name of the firm where neither Yours faithfully or Yours sincerely would be appropriate e.g. Dear Mr. Brown ................Yours truly, Polaski & Jones. 
Use “yours faithfully” in more formal settings, and “yours sincerely” in less formal ones. An example could be, use “yours sincerely” when you began the letter by addressing the recipient by his or her name. Instead, if you began your letter by saying something like “Dear Sir,” then you should say “yours faithfully.”. 
Should the 's' in sincerely be a capital letter or not. I did this at school but just want to... show more Hi Ive been reading different things about when it is appropriate to use yours faithfully and yours sincerely, i.e it is different for people you know and people you dont. Can anyone give me a definite answer? Should the &#39;s&#39; in sincerely be a capital letter or not. I did this at school but... 
With slight variations between British and American usage, these forms are still in use. If you don’t know the name of the recipient…. Yours faithfully is British usage. It is used when the recipient is not addressed by name, as in a letter with a “Dear Sir” salutation. I have never seen it in correspondence between Americans. That’s not to say it won’t catch on. I’ve come across letter-writing guides on the web that imply that it is standard American usage.
Yours faithfully or Yours sincerely; Dear Sir or Dear Mr. On this page we look at important phrases for writing letters and emails, such as when to use Yours faithfully and Yours sincerely, Dear Sir, Dear Madam, and so forth. You know how important it is to speak good English in an international working environment. 10 good opening lines. We need an opening line in a business letter or professional email: to make reference to previous correspondence; to say how we found the recipient’s name/address; to say why we are writing to the recipient. 1  With reference to your letter of 8 June, I … .
1 Use Yours sincerely when you know the person you are addressing, i.e. 2  Mr. Smith. 3  Use Yours faithfully when you are starting your letter with Dear Sir/Madam, or a similar construction. 1
I was taught that if you know the person you are writing to, you use yours sincerely at the end, and if not, you use yours faithfully. But, a few days ago, I found a sample cover letter on the official BBC website where they started with dear Sir and ended with yours sincerely. In school, I was taught yours faithfully for informal letters and yours sincerely for formal letters. This is of course nonsense, I don't know anyone who would sign a letter to a friend or family member with
Best Answer: Formally yours sincerely or yours faithfully, according to whether you are writing to a named person or not, as previous answers say. Report Abuse. If you know the person to whom you're writing, you write 'Dear .......' and sign off 'Yours sincerely' If you don't know the person you write 'Dear Sir' or 'Dear Madam' or 'Dear Sir/Madam' or 'To Whom It May Concern' and always sign off 'Yours faithfully'.