The essential components of the human cardiovascular system are the heart, blood and blood vessels. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated; and the systemic circulation, a loop through the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood. The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein.
The red blood cells release carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide enters the air in … the lungs and is exhaled. They the red blood cells take oxygen from air you breath in and then the oxygen-rich blood cells go back to the left side of the heart. It travels for the liver through the hepatic [liver] vein to the vena cava [the main vein carrying … blood leaving the body], into the right heart [first the right atrium, then the right ventricle], and then through the pulmonary [lung] artery to the lungs.
The blood also carries carbon dioxide from the cells of the body back to the lungs, where it is exhaled. Different animal species have developed different kinds of circulatory systems to accomplish this task, but the lungs and heart play a central role in all of them. The blood that travels back to the heart and lungs is dark red. It has picked up carbon dioxide from the body cells, and it has left most of its oxygen with the cells. We can think of the dark colored, carbon dioxide-rich blood as used blood. This is the blood that the heart pumps into the lungs.
The heart pumps oxygenated blood to the body and deoxygenated blood to the lungs. In the human heart there is one atrium and one ventricle for each circulation, and with both a systemic and a pulmonary circulation there are four chambers in total: left atrium, left ventricle, right atrium and right ventricle. The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein.
Systemic circulation carries oxygenated blood from the left ventricle, through the arteries, to the capillaries in the tissues of the body. From the tissue capillaries, the deoxygenated blood returns through a system of veins to the right atrium of the heart. Pulmonary Veins. The veins that return the oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart. Superior Vena Cava. The large vein that carries blood from the head, neck, arms, and chest to
The blood flows from the right ventricle, through the lungs, to the left atrium, i.e. from the right to the left side of the heart. This circulation is responsible for oxygenation of blood. In pulmonary circulation, the blood passes through the lungs where Carbon dioxide is eliminated and Oxygen is added to blood. In this way, the pulmonary circulation makes sure that systemic circulation remains effective.
The red blood cells release carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide enters the air in … the lungs and is exhaled. They the red blood cells take oxygen from air you breath in and then the oxygen-rich blood cells go back to the left side of the heart. + 17 others found this useful. It travels for the liver through the hepatic [liver] vein to the vena cava [the main vein carrying … blood leaving the body], into the right heart [first the right atrium, then the right ventricle], and then through the pulmonary [lung] artery to the lungs. 2 people found this useful.
The blood brings oxygen to the body cells and takes away their carbon dioxide. The blood that travels back to the heart and lungs is dark red. It has picked up carbon dioxide from the body cells, and it has left most of its oxygen with the cells. 
Capillary. A type of blood vessel that provides body cells with blood and connects arteries (arterioles) with veins (venules). The exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide takes place there. 