Martinsville to install tire barriers: After a full track evaluation by NASCAR and International Speedway Corporation (ISC), Martinsville Speedway will add to its existing barrier system in advance of the STP 500 weekend March 27-29. My Martinsville program will reward Martinsville Speedway's most loyal fans: Martinsville Speedway has announced a new fan-loyalty program that rewards ticket renewal customers with exclusive benefits and allows them to show off their pride in being one of Martinsville Speedway's most loyal fans.
Martinsville Speedway is an International Speedway Corporation-owned NASCAR stock car racing track located in Henry County, in Ridgeway, Virginia, just to the south of Martinsville. It is also the only race track that has been on the NASCAR circuit from its beginning in 1948. Along with this, Martinsville is the only NASCAR oval track on the entire NASCAR track circuit to have asphalt surfaces on the straightaways, then concrete to cover the turns.
ITL No Title No Image. Founded in 1947 by the late H. Clay Earles, Martinsville Speedway is only track which has hosted NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races every year since the division’s inception in 1949. At .526 miles in length, Martinsville Speedway is the shortest track on the Sprint Cup circuit. D H M S. Founded in 1947 by the late H. Clay Earles, Martinsville Speedway is only track which has hosted NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races every year since the division’s inception in 1949.
H. Clay Earles built Martinsville Speedway in 1947 as a dirt track before the formation of NASCAR. The first race was run on September 7, 1947 and Robert Red Bryon won $500 out of a $2,000 purse. The track hosted the sixth race in the NASCAR series (Strictly Stock) that eventually became the Sprint Cup Series. D H M S. Founded in 1947 by the late H. Clay Earles, Martinsville Speedway is only track which has hosted NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races every year since the division’s inception in 1949. At .526 miles in length, Martinsville Speedway is the shortest track on the Sprint Cup circuit
At slightly more than half a mile, Martinsville Speedway is the shortest track on the NASCAR Sprint Cup Circuit, but it's one of the biggest when it comes to action. It has 800-foot straights, turns banked at only 12 degrees and has been called two drag strips with a turnaround on each end.. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Martinsville Speedway is an International Speedway Corporation-owned NASCAR stock car racing track located in Henry County, in Ridgeway, Virginia, just to the south of Martinsville. At 0.526 miles (0.847 km) in length, it is the shortest track in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. It is also the only race track that has been on the NASCAR circuit from its beginning in 1948. Along with this, Martinsville is the only NASCAR oval track on the entire NASCAR track circuit to have asphalt surfaces on the straightaways, then concrete to cover the turns.
Martinsville, VA 24148. Since the very beginning, Martinsville Speedway has been the biggest little track in racing. But to get to the beginning of this track’s history, you have to back a very long way. There was a Martinsville Speedway before there was NASCAR, in fact. On Sept. 7, 1947, H. Clay Earles opened his .526-mile dirt track for modified stock cars.