The language. The official language of Iceland is Icelandic. Icelandic has been spoken in Iceland since the country was settled, in the 9 th century, and has changed little since then. It is, mostly, the language that the Nordic people spoke in the Middle Ages throughout most of the Nordic countries as well as within certain regions of England, Ireland, Scotland (along with the Shetland Islands, the Orkney Islands and the Hebrides), some parts of France and Russia and as far south as Constantinople.
Confidence votes 525. There are no other official languages in Iceland, but like all the Scandinavian countries, they speak English and usually at a very good level. Some Icelandic people may speak Norwegian, Danish or Swedish, but it all depends. --. The only languages spoken in Iceland, *besides Icelandic* are only languages you might expect from immigrants, about 7% of the population, in 2008. A large portion of these immigrants were non-permanent workers of some sort mainly from Poland, Lithuania or Thailand
280,000 speakers. Icelandic is spoken in Iceland, where it is the official language. Icelandic is based on the Latin alphabet, with the addition of þ, ð, ae, æ, a, á, e, é i í. O ó u ú and Oe ö icelandic developed into a. distinct scandinavian language around the 12th century Icelandic is part of the North Germanic branch of languages, and so is most closely related to Norwegian, Swedish, Danish and Faroese. 280,000 speakers. Icelandic is spoken in Iceland, where it is the official language. Icelandic is based on the Latin alphabet, with the addition of þ, ð, ae, æ, a, á, e, é i í. o ó u ú and oe ö
Language. Icelandic is the official language of Iceland. It is an Indo-European language, belonging to the sub-group of North Germanic languages. It is closely related to Norwegian and Faroese, although there are slight traces of Celtic influence in ancient Icelandic literature.
Icelandic /aɪsˈlaendɪk/ (aɪsˈlændɪk (islenska·íslenska)) help info Is A north, germanic language the Language. Of iceland it Is-An indo european language belonging To The north Germanic or nordic branch Of the. germanic languages The language of the sagas is Old Icelandic, a western dialect of Old Norse. Danish rule of Iceland from 1380 to 1918 had little effect on the evolution of Icelandic, which remained in daily use among the general population.
Icelandic is a language also part of the North Germanic languages, and is related to Swedish, Norwegian, Danish/Faroese. Unfortunately, there are only 290,000 speakers nowadays. Icelandic is Iceland's official language. Icelandic uses the Latin alphabet, plus þ, ð, ae, æ, a, á, e, é i í. o ó u ú and oe ö The languages spoken in Scandinavia are called North Germanic languages, and include Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Faroese. These languages are generally sorted into the East- (Danish, Swedish) and West-Scandinavian (Norwegian, Icelandic) languages. Finnish belongs to the Finno-Ugric language family.
Icelandic is the official language of Iceland. It is an Indo-European language, belonging to the sub-group of North Germanic languages. It is closely related to Norwegian and Faroese, although there are slight traces of Celtic influence in ancient Icelandic literature. 
Icelandic /aɪsˈlaendɪk/ (aɪsˈlændɪk (islenska·íslenska)) help info Is A north, germanic language the Language. Of iceland it Is-An indo european language belonging To The north Germanic or nordic branch Of the. Germanic, languages historically it was the westernmost Of-The indo european languages prior to the colonisation Of. the americas The language of the sagas is Old Icelandic, a western dialect of Old Norse. Danish rule of Iceland from 1380 to 1918 had little effect on the evolution of Icelandic, which remained in daily use among the general population.
Icelandic is the de facto national language of Iceland where it is spoken by all of Iceland’s 319,000 citizens. Icelandic is the medium of education, although some education is available in other languages. It is the language of government, business and the media. There are a number of Icelandic newspapers, magazines and radio stations in addition to several TV channels.