Hairline Fractures. Hairline fractures are nondisplaced fractures, which do not cause bone deformity. If they are seen on X-rays taken soon after the injury, they appear as a faint line. In seven to 14 days, bone is reabsorbed during fracture healing. Hairline fractures that were not initially visible show up as a clear line on X-rays. If a scaphoid fracture does not heal, the carpal bones will collapse. Possible hairline fractures of the scaphoid are treated with a cast that includes the thumb. X-rays are repeated at 10 to 14 days to determine whether a fracture exists. Casting continues until the fracture heels.
Hairline fractures are sometimes so small, it may be difficult to  be detected on an x-ray. You will need to give the fracture two to  three weeks to calm down and after t … hat time, you will notice the  bruising and swelling reducing. After that, expect to make a full  recovery in three to six weeks. Skull fractures take a few months to heal. When fracturing the skull the healing process takes a lot longer than any other fracture, like a fracture in the wrist or foot. Beca … use of how much was damage and depending on the area of the fracture and the extent of the damage, the healing process could take up to a year, and in some cases even longer
A CT Scan or MRI can then be used to detect an occult fracture. Fractures can, at best, take between 6 and 12 weeks to heal with casting. Some of these fractures can, however, take 6 months or more in a cast, and some may not heal at all. The scaphoid has an unusual internal circulation pattern. 
A Colles' fracture -- or distal radius fracture -- is often called a ''broken wrist.'' Technically, it's a break in the larger of the two bones in your forearm. The bone breaks on the lower end, close to where it connects to the bones of the hand on the thumb side of the wrist. 
The length of time it will take to heal will depend on the type of fracture, whether it's damaged the surrounding tissues, and the person's age. For example, a young child who's cracked their wrist will need to wear a cast or removable splint for just two to three weeks. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. Go to your nearest accident and emergency (A&E) department if you think you or your child has broken a bone.
Introduction. A broken arm or wrist is usually caused by a fall onto an outstretched arm. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. Go to your nearest accident and emergency (A&E) department if you think you or your child has broken a bone.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: i've done a hairline fracture on my ulna bone and in my foot and they both took 6 weeks. Where you broke yours, I did simple fracture and mine took 4 1/2 weeks to heal. It really depends on your body. But remember, don't stick anything in your cast to itch yourself! You can cause the skin to break open and have an infection. Good luck and don't break any more bones :). Report Abuse. most fractures take about four to six weeks. I had fractures and broken bones from all the sports I've play over the years. What I know Is that after the cast comes off. You still need more time to get the strength back. That may take a while depending on may factors.
A useful rule of thumb is that the time taken for the bone to regain full strength is usually the same as the time it takes for the fracture to heal. That is, if you’ve been in plaster for six weeks, it will take six weeks to regain full strength. It's important not to get a plaster cast wet. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. Go to your nearest accident and emergency (A&E) department if you think you or your child has broken a bone.