Malaria is a serious disease that causes a high fever and chills. You can get it from a bite by an infected mosquito. Malaria is rare in the United States. It is most often found in Africa, Southern Asia, Central America, and South America. Malaria is caused by a bite from a mosquito infected with parasites. But some malaria parasites may survive because they are in your liver or they are resistant to the medicine. Get medical help right away if you have been in an area where malaria is present, were exposed to mosquitoes, and get symptoms that are like the flu. These include a high fever, chills, and muscle pain.
Malaria. Malaria is a tropical disease. It is spread by mosquitoes infected with malaria parasites. In this video, an expert explains how malaria attacks different areas of the body, and what you can do to avoid getting infected. Media last reviewed: 31/01/2014. 
Treatment Overview. Medicine can prevent malaria and is needed to treat the disease. Several things influence the choice of medicine, including: 1  Whether the medicine is being used to prevent or to treat malaria. 2  Your condition (such as your age or whether you are pregnant). 3  How sick you are from malaria. 
In many malaria-endemic countries, malaria transmission does not occur in all parts of the country. Even within tropical and subtropical areas, transmission will not occur. 1  At very high altitudes. 2  During colder seasons in some areas. 3  In deserts (excluding the oases). 
Malaria parasites belong to the genus Plasmodium (phylum Apicomplexa). In humans, malaria is caused by P. falciparum, P. malariae, P. ovale, P. vivax and P. knowlesi. Among those infected, P. falciparum is the most common species identified (~75%) followed by P. vivax (~20%). The parasites travel to the liver where they mature and reproduce. Five species of Plasmodium can infect and be spread by humans. Most deaths are caused by P. falciparum because P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae generally cause a milder form of malaria. The species P. knowlesi rarely causes disease in humans.
INFECTIOUS AGENT. Malaria in humans is caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Plasmodium: Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale, or P. malariae. In addition, P. knowlesi, a parasite of Old World (Eastern Hemisphere) monkeys, has been documented as a cause of human infections and some deaths in Southeast Asia. 
Some Anopheles species are poor vectors of malaria, as the parasites do not develop well (or at all) within them. There is also variation within species. In the laboratory, it has been possible to select for strains of An. gambiae that are refractory to infection by malaria parasites. Diagram of Adult Female Mosquito. Larger Picture. Malaria is transmitted among humans by female mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles. Female mosquitoes take blood meals to carry out egg production, and such blood meals are the link between the human and the mosquito hosts in the parasite life cycle.
ANSWER. Malaria is found throughout the world’s tropical and sub-tropical areas, and mainly in Central and South America, Africa, Asia and the Indo-Pacific region. 
Malaria is an infectious disease that is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium. You get it from the bite of a type of female mosquito that carries the parasite. Malaria is an infection that can cause serious illness and may be life-threatening. You get malaria from the bite of a type of infected female mosquito called Anopheles. They carry a parasite called Plasmodium, which is carried to your liver and then infects your red blood cells