Skeletal muscle is the largest organ in the body. Skeletal muscles are primarily characterized by their mechanical activity required for posture, movement, and breathing, which depends on muscle fiber contractions. However, skeletal muscle is not just a component in our locomotor system. Recent evidence has identified skeletal muscle as a secretory organ.
Recent evidence has identified skeletal muscle as a secretory organ. We have suggested that cytokines and other peptides that are produced, expressed, and released by muscle fibers and exert either autocrine, paracrine, or endocrine effects should be classified as myokines.. The muscle secretome consists of several hundred secreted peptides. This finding provides a conceptual basis and a whole new paradigm for understanding how muscles communicate with other organs such as adipose tissue, liver, pancreas, bones, and brain.
The Liver: Introduction and Index. The liver is the largest gland in the body and performs an astonishingly large number of tasks that impact all body systems. One consequence of this complexity is that hepatic disease has widespread effects on virtually all other organ systems.
Only the organs specifically used for the excretion are considered a part of the excretory system. In the narrow sense, the term refer to the urinary system. However, at excretion involves several functions that are only superficially related, it is not usually used in more formal classifications of anatomy or function. Humans have two kidneys and each kidney is supplied with blood from the renal artery. The kidneys remove from the blood the nitrogenous wastes such as urea, as well as salts and excess water, and excrete them in the form of urine. This is done with the help of millions of nephrons present in the kidney.
Skeletal muscle is a secretory organ. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), interleukin (IL)‐4, IL‐6, IL‐7, and IL‐15 promote muscle hypertrophy. Myostatin inhibits muscle hypertrophy and exercise provokes the release of a myostatin inhibitor, follistatin, from the liver. Skeletal muscles are primarily characterized by their mechanical activity required for posture, movement, and breathing, which depends on muscle fiber contractions. However, skeletal muscle is not just a component in our locomotor system. Recent evidence has identified skeletal muscle a
Noun. 1. secretory organ-any of various organs that synthesize substances needed by the body and release it through ducts or directly into the bloodstream. gland, secreter, secretor. green gland-one of a pair of glands (believed to have excretory functions) in some crustaceans near the base of the large antennae. 
As most healthy functioning organs produce metabolic and other wastes, the entire organism depends on the function of the system. Breaking down on one of more of the systems is a serious health condition, like renal failure. Humans have two kidneys and each kidney is supplied with blood from the renal artery. The kidneys remove from the blood the nitrogenous wastes such as urea, as well as salts and excess water, and excrete them in the form of urine. This is done with the help of millions of nephrons present in the kidney.
Noun. 1. exocrine gland-a gland that secretes externally through a duct. duct gland, exocrine. gland, secreter, secretor, secretory organ-any of various organs that synthesize substances needed by the body and release it through ducts or directly into the bloodstream. oil gland-a gland that secretes oil. 
Tears are secreted by the lacrimal glands. tears The secretions of the lacrimal gland are more commonly known as TEARS. The lacrimal gland is what produces the tears that lubr … icate and clean your eye. Tears. 1 person found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 
Muscle as a secretory organ. Pedersen BK(1). Author information: (1)The Centre of Inflammation and Metabolism at Department of Infectious Diseases, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. bkp@rh.dk. Skeletal muscle is the largest organ in the body. Skeletal muscles are primarily characterized by their mechanical activity required for posture, movement, and breathing, which depends on muscle fiber contractions. However, skeletal muscle is not just a component in our locomotor system. The muscle secretome consists of several hundred secreted peptides. This finding provides a conceptual basis and a whole new paradigm for understanding how muscles communicate with other organs such as adipose tissue, liver, pancreas, bones, and brain.