The American Dental Association recommends getting a new toothbrush (or brush head, if you use an electric type) about every three months — more because of the wear on the bristles than germs. And that depends on the brusher and not the brush, Price emphasizes. If you have a heavy hand, the bristles might wear out sooner. Remember that the key determinant is not the calendar but the shape the bristles are in. “You need to replace your toothbrush when the bristles spew in different directions,” Price says.
You should replace your toothbrush every 3 to 4 months. Using a toothbrush with frayed or worn bristles will mean that your teeth get a less effective cleaning. Some people will wear down the bristles more quickly and will need to replace their toothbrush more often. Since toothbrushes can harbor so many bacteria, it is recommended that you change your toothbrush every 3-4 months. Don’t wait until the bristles fray or your brush develops mold!!! Yes…this can happen. Here are also other times when you want to change your toothbrush.
If you use an electric toothbrush, it is important to practice safe use with the head of the electric toothbrush. Replace the head every three months or sooner if it begins to fray. If you’re not sure which type of toothbrush is best suited for your oral hygiene needs, talk with your dentist for recommendations. 
You can also develop the habit of changing your toothbrush with every check-up (provided you see your dentist every six months) and then again midway before the next appointment. Or try timing the change to the first day of every season — and remember: To every toothbrush, there is a season. Last Updated: 10/28/2011. And that depends on the brusher and not the brush, Price emphasizes. If you have a heavy hand, the bristles might wear out sooner. Remember that the key determinant is not the calendar but the shape the bristles are in. “You need to replace your toothbrush when the bristles spew in different directions,” Price says.
What are the benefits of changing toothbrush. 1  When you change your toothbrush to a new one, the new toothbrush removes up to 30 percent more plaque than one that’s 3 months old. 2  The effect of long term use toothbrushes are that the bristles fray and wear out, leading to ineffective brushing and finally tooth decay. This is a Oral B Toothbrush with blue indicator bristles. How often should you change your toothbrush. Some people can use their toothbrush repeatedly until they misplace it. The average American only change their brushes 1.9 times a year. The American Dental Association recommends that you change your toothbrush at least four times a year, approximately 3 months and every time you are sick. If the bristles of your toothbrush start flaring before three to four months, then you are using too much pressure to brush your teeth
You may also need to replace children's toothbrushes more often than adults' toothbrushes. Talk to your dentist if you have any questions about how often you should replace your toothbrush based on your individual needs and brushing habits. Since toothbrushes can harbor so many bacteria, it is recommended that you change your toothbrush every 3-4 months. Don’t wait until the bristles fray or your brush develops mold!!! Yes…this can happen. Here are also other times when you want to change your toothbrush.
1 When you change your toothbrush to a new one, the new toothbrush removes up to 30 percent more plaque than one that’s 3 months old. 2  The effect of long term use toothbrushes are that the bristles fray and wear out, leading to ineffective brushing and finally tooth decay. This is a Oral B Toothbrush with blue indicator bristles. How often should you change your toothbrush. Some people can use their toothbrush repeatedly until they misplace it. The average American only change their brushes 1.9 times a year. The American Dental Association recommends that you change your toothbrush at least four times a year, approximately 3 months and every time you are sick. If the bristles of your toothbrush start flaring before three to four months, then you are using too much pressure to brush your teeth
Replace your toothbrush every three or four months, or sooner if the bristles become frayed. A worn toothbrush will not do a good job of cleaning your teeth. Children's toothbrushes often need replacing more frequently than adults because they can wear out sooner. Since toothbrushes can harbor so many bacteria, it is recommended that you change your toothbrush every 3-4 months. Don’t wait until the bristles fray or your brush develops mold!!! Yes…this can happen. Here are also other times when you want to change your toothbrush.
Based upon our research studies, the toothbrush should be changed every 2 weeks; at the beginning of an illness, when you first feel better, and when you feel well; and when you return from travel. It takes 2 weeks for the toothbrush to become contaminated to the point that it cannot be disinfected. Since toothbrushes can harbor so many bacteria, it is recommended that you change your toothbrush every 3-4 months. Don’t wait until the bristles fray or your brush develops mold!!! Yes…this can happen. Here are also other times when you want to change your toothbrush.