Type of fat —- Recommendation. Saturated Fats — Up to 10% of total daily calories. Dietary Cholesterol — Max 300 milligrams per day. USDA and HHS recommended that the intake of trans fat be as low as possible, although did not yet set the upper limit for trans fats. On the other hand, the American Heart Association has established an upper limit for trans fat-maximum 1% of total daily calories.
Limit to 7 percent to further reduce your risk of heart disease. Based on a 2,000-calorie-a-day diet, a 10 percent limit amounts to about 22 grams of saturated fat a day, while 7 percent is about 15 grams. Saturated fat intake counts toward your total daily allowance of fat. Trans fat. No specific amount is recommended, but the guidelines say the lower the better.
For a 2,000-calorie diet, the daily saturated fat limit is 22 grams. For 1,500-calorie and 2,500-calorie diets, the limits are 17 grams and 28 grams, respectively. If you have high cholesterol or heart disease, reduce your saturated fat limit to 7 percent of your total daily calories. Fat contains nine calories per gram, so divide each number of the fat-calorie range by nine to determine your daily fat grams. For a 2,000-calorie per day diet, the recommended daily fat intake is 44 to 78 grams.
1 If you are healthy, consume no more than 300 mg of cholesterol a day. 2  If you have diabetes, high cholesterol or heart disease, limit the daily cholesterol intake to no more than 200 mg a day. When deciding whether to include eggs in your diet, consider the recommended daily limits on cholesterol in your food: 1 
The USDA recommends consuming no more than 300 mg of cholesterol a day. While a deep-fried Twinkie at the county fair is an obvious no-no, other high cholesterol culprits may be sneaking into your diet. Check out what that number looks like in terms of everyday food items. 
Multiply your daily total calorie intake by the recommended percentage of fat intake. Divide that total by 9, which is the number of calories in a gram of fat. For example, here's how a 7 percent saturated fat limit looks if you eat 2,000 calories a day. Based on a 2,000-calorie-a-day diet, a 10 percent limit amounts to about 22 grams of saturated fat a day, while 7 percent is about 15 grams. Saturated fat intake counts toward your total daily allowance of fat. Trans fat. No specific amount is recommended, but the guidelines say the lower the better.
Eating saturated fat,and trans fat raises your blood cholesterol level even further. For adults who would benefit from lowering their LDL cholesterol, the American Heart Association recommends: 1  Reducing saturated fat to no more than 5 to 6 percent of total calories. 2  For someone eating 2,000 calories a day that’s about 11 to 13 grams of saturated fat. The American Heart Association recommends that adults who would benefit from lowering LDL cholesterol reduce their intake of trans fat and limit their consumption of saturated fat to 5 to 6%
For a man or woman on a 2,000-calorie diet, the target fat-calorie range is 400 to 700 calories. Fat contains nine calories per gram, so divide each number of the fat-calorie range by nine to determine your daily fat grams. For a 2,000-calorie per day diet, the recommended daily fat intake is 44 to 78 grams.
Government guidelines advise that total blood cholesterol levels be kept below 200 mg/dL, and that LDL cholesterol be kept below 100 mg/dL. On a day to day basis, this means you should limit your average cholesterol intake to less than 300 milligrams per day. But, if you have been diagnosed with heart disease, this should be reduced further to an intake of less than 200 milligrams per day. 
These changes increase your risk for heart disease. It is best to avoid trans fats whenever possible. The American Heart Association recommends that you limit your daily intake of trans fats to no more than 1 percent of your total daily calories. For a 2,000 calorie per day diet, the trans fat limit is 2 grams daily. Fat contains nine calories per gram, so divide each number of the fat-calorie range by nine to determine your daily fat grams. For a 2,000-calorie per day diet, the recommended daily fat intake is 44 to 78 grams.