2.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis The recommended dose of HUMIRA for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), or ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is 40 mg administered every other week. HUMIRA is dispensed in a carton containing 6 alcohol preps and 6 dose trays (Pediatric. Starter Package). Each dose tray consists of a single-use, 1 mL prefilled glass syringe with a. fixed 27 gauge ½ inch needle, providing 40 mg/0.8 mL of HUMIRA.
The recommended dose of HUMIRA for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 160 mg (given as four 40 mg injections on Day 1 or as two 40 mg injections per day on Days 1 and 2), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Begin 40 mg weekly dosing two weeks later (Day 29). Adult Crohn's Disease. The recommended HUMIRA dose regimen for adult patients with Crohn's disease (CD) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15).
The recommended dose of HUMIRA for adult patients with plaque psoriasis (Ps) is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. The use of HUMIRA in moderate to severe chronic Ps beyond one year has not been evaluated in controlled clinical studies. Adult Crohn's Disease. The recommended HUMIRA dose regimen for adult patients with Crohn's disease (CD) is 160 mg initially on Day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15).
Sometimes people with rheumatoid arthritis who are not also taking methotrexate get an injection every week. For those with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, the usual initial dose of Humira is 160 mg on the first one or two days of treatment, followed two weeks later by 80 mg. Humira is the brand name for the drug adalimumab, an injectable medicine used to treat adults with inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis. Humira is also used to treat juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) in children over age 4.
The recommended Humira dose for these conditions is 40 mg injected every other week. Some people with rheumatoid arthritis, especially those not taking methotrexate (Rheumatrex ®) with Humira, may need to take Humira 40 mg every week. For psoriasis treatment, the recommended dose is Humira 80 mg for the first dose, followed by Humira 40 mg every other week (starting the week after the first dose).
A: Humira (adalimumab) is used alone or with other medications to relieve the symptoms of certain autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's. Adalimumab injection is in a class of medications called tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors. Humira is the brand name for the drug adalimumab, an injectable medicine used to treat adults with inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis. Humira is also used to treat juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) in children over age 4.
Humira Dosing for Crohn's Disease or Ulcerative Colitis. The recommended Humira dose for Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis is Humira 160 mg for the first dose (taken as four separate injections over one or two days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later, then 40 mg every other week, starting two weeks later. Humira Dosing for Plaque Psoriasis. For psoriasis treatment, the recommended dose is Humira 80 mg for the first dose, followed by Humira 40 mg every other week (starting the week after the first dose).
2.7 Hidradenitis Suppurativa The recommended dose of HUMIRA for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 160 mg (given as four 40 mg injections on Day 1 or as two 40 mg injections per day on Days 1 and 2), followed by 80 mg two weeks later (Day 15). Begin 40 mg weekly dosing two weeks later (Day 29). HUMIRA is dispensed in a carton containing 6 alcohol preps and 6 dose trays (Pediatric. Starter Package). Each dose tray consists of a single-use, 1 mL prefilled glass syringe with a. fixed 27 gauge ½ inch needle, providing 40 mg/0.8 mL of HUMIRA.