• DCD Sq. Ft. Cost Analysis New Hospital. The outlook is strong for health care construction due to the constant aging of our population. In this building cost analysis we look at the cost of a 4-floor, 234,000 square foot new hospital with EIFS/Brick exterior and a membrane roof. This analysis is based on an average of hospitals featured in the DCD Archives. In this issue's sq.ft. cost analysis we look at a new office building certified LEED Platinum. The office is 24,084 square feet and two floors. The project is based on the projects featured in the DCD Archives online at DCD.COM.
show more I would like to know how much a tilt up concrete building would cost to build the concrete superstructure only assuming average labor and material costs. The design would be a 4 story building with 12 foot ceilings. No fancy architectural features, just plain square concrete and economical windows and doors. No roof. 
For a building of this size, the fixed or open the door costs of a tilt-up construction project (like the rental of a large crane, for example) make it more expensive than steel, even though concrete is usually a less expensive raw material. The fact that builders in earthquake-prone California now use tilt-up construction for 90% of their single-story commercial projects indicates that concrete buildings are cost-competitive and extremely durable. The intended use for a building will also influence whether steel or concrete is the best choice.
As projects become larger than 50,000 square feet, however, the lower price of concrete starts to offset tilt-up construction's fixed costs and this method becomes cost-competitive with a metal building. The fact that builders in earthquake-prone California now use tilt-up construction for 90% of their single-story commercial projects indicates that concrete buildings are cost-competitive and extremely durable. The intended use for a building will also influence whether steel or concrete is the best choice.
However, as projects become larger than 50,000 square feet, the lower price of concrete starts to offset tilt-up construction's fixed costs and this method becomes cost-competitive with a metal building. According to the Tilt-up Concrete Association, at least 10,000 buildings are constructed annually that enclose more than 650 million square feet. Tilt-up concrete construction is not new; it has been in use for well over a century.
According to Brown’s research, in most suburban markets, the tilt-up office product averages $7 to $10 per square foot less for the exact project built conventionally. Typical office construction for “class A” space includes a steel or concrete frame with veneer cladding and perimeter columns. The first school measures 49,000 square feet and was constructed in 1996 using conventional brick and masonry construction for the exterior wall. The second school measures 55,000 square feet and was constructed by SiteCast in 1999 using insulated tilt-up concrete wall panels.
Buildings by experienced contractors cost about .5-4% more than wood frame structures of the same design. Typical new U.S. buildings cost $60-100 per square foot. Building walls of ICFs adds $1.00-$4.00 to this figure. But since ICF buildings are more energy-efficient, the heating and cooling equipment can be smaller than in a frame structure. This can cut the cost of the final building by an estimated $.75 per square foot. This means lower energy costs, to the tune of $200 to $300 per year for a typical building. When planning a building, you can estimate that experienced crews will add $.25-$3.25 per square foot for the cost of building the walls from concrete with ICFs.
Ft. Cost AnalysisTilt-Up Construction This issue's cost analysis looks at tilt-up construction. Concrete and the total project SF cost are shown for educational, civic, com-mercial, medical and re-ligious projects. 
The Building Cost Per Square Foot Analysis is compiled from actual medical new construction projects published by Design Cost Data magazine. This guide will provide DCD readers a quick comparison of building construction costs on similar size projects. In this issue's sq.ft. cost analysis we look at a new office building certified LEED Platinum. The office is 24,084 square feet and two floors. The project is based on the projects featured in the DCD Archives online at DCD.COM.