1 NUCLEIC ACIDS MADE UP OF... 2  Nucleic Acids are chains (polymers) made of monomers. 3  Nucleic acids are made up of Nucleotide Chains Which are nitrogen bases…something we will learn more about when we study DNA. 4  77. 5  The shape of a nucleic acid is: DNA is a double helix RNA is a single strand. 6  78. 1 PROTEINS MADE UP OF... 2  Proteins are made of long chains (polymers) made of monomers. 3  All proteins are made of the monomer… AMINO ACID. 4  53. 5  The shapes of proteins are like a balled up piece of string Amino Acid chain All wound up. 6  54.
A macromolecule is a very large molecule commonly created by polymerization of smaller subunits (monomers). They are typically composed of thousands or more atoms. First, it is normally double-stranded, so that there are a minimum of two copies of the information encoding each gene in every cell. Second, DNA has a much greater stability against breakdown than does RNA, an attribute primarily associated with the absence of the 2'-hydroxyl group within every nucleotide of DNA.
• NUCLEIC ACID (noun). The noun NUCLEIC ACID has 1 sense: 1. (biochemistry) any of various macromolecules composed of nucleotide chains that are vital constituents of all living cells. Familiarity information: NUCLEIC ACID used as a noun is very rare. Holonyms (nucleic acid is a part of...): deoxyribonucleic acid; desoxyribonucleic acid; DNA ((biochemistry) a long linear polymer found in the nucleus of a cell and formed from nucleotides and shaped like a double helix; associated with the transmission of genetic information).
Summary of Proteins  Subunits are amino acids  Amino acids are joined by condensation reactions that form peptide bonds  The amino acid sequence is a protein’s primary structure. The primary structure can also be called a polypeptide. Carbohydrates  Made mostly of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen  Small carbohydrates are called monosaccharides, single or simple sugars.  Most common monosaccharide is glucose: C 6 H 12 O 6  In cells, glucose looks like: C 6 C5 C4 C1.
Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses The two DNA strands are known as polynucleotides since they are composed of simpler units called nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of a nitrogen-containing nucleobase —either cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A), or thymine (T)—as well as a monosaccharide sugar called deoxyribose and a phosphate group.
Many of these components of the cell are made up of macromolecules, which simply means large molecules formed by linking together small molecules. The major macromolecules within the cell include proteins, nucleic acids like DNA and RNA, carbohydrates, and lipids. 
Why, in RNA, does A≠U and G≠C? RNA-type of nucleic acid consisting of nucleotide monomers with a ribose sugar and the nitrogen bases adenine, cytosine, guanine, and uracil; usually single stranded; functions in protein synthesis, gene regulation, and as the genome of some viruses. 
These are known as macromolecules. Most macromolecules are polymers, which are long chains of subunits called monomers. These subunits are often very similar to each other, and for all the diversity of polymers (and living things in general) there are only about 40 - 50 common monomers. Phospholipids are like fats but they have two fatty acids and a phosphate group joined to glycerol. The fatty acid tails are hydrophobic but the phosphate part is hydrophilic. This is an important feature of these molecules. More about phospholipids when we cover membrane structure.
Best Answer: It's a nucleic acid, made up of monomers called nucleotides. A nucleotide consists of three parts: a) A sugar-deoxyribose (ribose in RNA) b) An organic base-adenine, cytosine, guanine and thymine (in DNA. In RNA, there is uracil instead of thymine) c) A phosphate group I hope that helps. :) ILoveMaths07
1 76. 2  NUCLEIC ACIDS MADE UP OF... 3  Nucleic Acids are chains (polymers) made of monomers. 4  Nucleic acids are made up of Nucleotide Chains Which are nitrogen bases…something we will learn more about when we study DNA. 5  77. 6  The shape of a nucleic acid is: DNA is a double helix RNA is a single strand. 7  78. 1 PROTEINS MADE UP OF... 2  Proteins are made of long chains (polymers) made of monomers. 3  All proteins are made of the monomer… AMINO ACID. 4  53. 5  The shapes of proteins are like a balled up piece of string Amino Acid chain All wound up. 6  54.