The illustration below is of the remains of an extinct Pierre Shale squid known as Tusoteuthis. This 'cuttle-bone' shows close similarities to some extant (living) squids. Although specimens are rare, the evidence is present to show us that rapid-moving shell-less cephalopods existed with ammonites and nautilus. The cuttle-bone of a fossil squid is the only evidence of these creature's existence in the Western Interior's Late Cretaceous seas. In some areas of the Pierre Shale and Fox Hills Formation, the remains are quite plentiful.
Subclass Coleoidea, or Dibranchiata, is the grouping of cephalopods containing all the various taxa popularly thought of as soft-bodied or shell-less, i.e., octopus, squid and cuttlefish. 
The class now contains two, only distantly related, extant subclasses: Coleoidea, which includes octopuses, squid, and cuttlefish; and Nautiloidea, represented by Nautilus and Allonautilus. In the Coleoidea, the molluscan shell has been internalized or is absent, whereas in the Nautiloidea, the external shell remains. 
The more modern cephalopods of the subclass called Coleoideado not have an external shell like the other molluscs. Only members of the most ancient cephalopod groups, the subclass Nautiloideawith its only recent genus Nautilus, still swim the ocean with a shell resembling that of a snail. The rest of the cephalopods have an inner shell. That of the cuttlefish for instance is called cuttlebone, though it is neither bone nor skeleton, but a shell rest. Cuttlebones are known to the bird keeper to provide the bird with something to sharpen its beak.
• SUBCLASS DIBRANCHIA (noun). The noun SUBCLASS DIBRANCHIA has 1 sense: 1. comprising all living cephalopods except the family Nautilidae: the orders Octopoda (octopuses) and Decapoda (squids and cuttlefish). Familiarity information: SUBCLASS DIBRANCHIA used as a noun is very rare.
Squid are cephalopods of the order Teuthida, which comprises around 304 species. Like all other cephalopods, squid have a distinct head, bilateral symmetry, a mantle, and arms. Squid, like cuttlefish, have eight arms arranged in pairs and two, usually longer, tentacles. Squid are members of the class Cephalopoda, subclass Coleoidea, order Teuthida, which has two major suborders, Myopsina and Oegopsina (including giant squid such as Architeuthis dux). Teuthida is the largest cephalopod order with around 300 species classified into 29 famili
They have flexible arms and a siphon. Cephalopods even have a large brain with ganglia located inside of a cranium. If there is a shell present, it is divided by septa. Other members of the Cephalopoda include: the squid, nautilus, and cuttlefish. Subclass: Coleoidea These cephalopods have an internal shell which is greatly reduced in size or is nonexistent. Squid and other octopuses are also included in this grouping. 
These are the common modern cephalopods, mostly squids, cuttlefish, and octopi. Being predators, they are adapted for speed. The loss of external shell presumably allowed an increase in speed and was, therefore, advantageous. This order is characterized by ten arms and an internal shell. The best modern representative of this order is Sepia, the cuttlefish, whose shell is often found in parrots' cages. In the fossil record, one group of decapods, the belemnoids have left as a common fossil, numerous cigar shaped internal skeleta.
• SUBCLASS DIBRANCHIATA (noun). The noun SUBCLASS DIBRANCHIATA has 1 sense: 1. comprising all living cephalopods except the family Nautilidae: the orders Octopoda (octopuses) and Decapoda (squids and cuttlefish). Familiarity information: SUBCLASS DIBRANCHIATA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.