Corporate Information. Laminex Australia is the leading marketer, distributor and manufacturer of premium decorative surfaces in Australia. We have a strong portfolio of brands including Formica and essastone, as well as Laminex, which is Australasia’s leading brand for decorative surfaces. Laminex Australia has an extensive national distribution network in Australia with dedicated centres specialising in customer service and design selection. There are also over 8,000 independent marketing and information display centres across the country.
Laminex Australia. Laminex Australia is the leading marketer, distributor and manufacturer of decorative surfaces throughout Australia and New Zealand. We produce a complete and varied range for both residential and commercial spaces through our brands Formica, Laminex and essastone. Visit website
Laminex is the brand name of one of the world’s most popular kitchen benchtop and splashback surfacing products. For benchtops, textured laminate is preferable to a smooth surface because it hides scratches, but for vertical surfaces that aren’t scratch-prone, a smooth or gloss finish may be preferable. Laminex, Wilsonart and Formica are the world’s largest manufacturers of plastic laminate.
The Laminex product range is so popular, in fact, that the word is often used in place of the more generic plastic laminate and the even longer technical name for all plastic laminate products -- high pressure decorative laminate (HPDL). For example, Laminex or a similar product is now used on bowling alleys because it looks like natural timber, but does not shrink, dent or expand as readily as natural timber. Aside from being available in an enormous range of colours, patterns and styles, Laminex also comes in a variety of textures. For benchtops, textured laminate is preferable to a smooth surface because it hides scratches, but for vertical surfaces that aren't scratch-prone, a smooth or gloss finish may be preferable
Laminex is the brand name of one of the world's most popular kitchen benchtop and splashback surfacing products. For example, Laminex or a similar product is now used on bowling alleys because it looks like natural timber, but does not shrink, dent or expand as readily as natural timber. Aside from being available in an enormous range of colours, patterns and styles, Laminex also comes in a variety of textures. For benchtops, textured laminate is preferable to a smooth surface because it hides scratches, but for vertical surfaces that aren't scratch-prone, a smooth or gloss finish may be preferable
The Laminex product range is so popular, in fact, that the word is often used in place of the more generic “plastic laminate” and the even longer technical name for all plastic laminate products — high pressure decorative laminate (HPDL). For benchtops, textured laminate is preferable to a smooth surface because it hides scratches, but for vertical surfaces that aren’t scratch-prone, a smooth or gloss finish may be preferable. Laminex, Wilsonart and Formica are the world’s largest manufacturers of plastic laminate.
Laminex Australia is a leading manufacturer and distributor of decorative surface solutions for the Australian and. New Zealand markets. To complement our domestic Sales and Marketing team Laminex Australia operates an Export Department to market our extensive range of products worldwide. Laminex Australia has an extensive national distribution network in Australia with dedicated centres specialising in customer service and design selection. There are also over 8,000 independent marketing and information display centres across the country.
Whether you call it Laminex, plastic laminate or high pressure decorative laminate, the key word is laminate.. All HPDL products are manufactured in a similar way, from layers of paper saturated with melamine and bound together with phenolic resins. For example, Laminex or a similar product is now used on bowling alleys because it looks like natural timber, but does not shrink, dent or expand as readily as natural timber. Aside from being available in an enormous range of colours, patterns and styles, Laminex also comes in a variety of textures. For benchtops, textured laminate is preferable to a smooth surface because it hides scratches, but for vertical surfaces that aren't scratch-prone, a smooth or gloss finish may be preferable