Canadian passports. Find out how to apply for a Canadian passport, check processing times for passport applications, find service locations, learn about new requirements, and see what to do if your passport is lost, stolen or damaged. Follow: Passport security. What to do if your passport is lost or stolen, how to protect yourself from identity theft, and information for Canadian law enforcement.
1. Visit the Passport Canada website to obtain a passport application. If you are 16 years or older, you need form PPTC 153. If you are under the age of 16, you need form PPTC 155. A simplified renewal form, PPTC 054, is also available on the Passport Canada website. Apply for your Canadian passport. 1  Apply by mail. 2  Apply in person by visiting a Passport Canada regional office, a participating Service Canada Center, or a participating Canada Post Office.
Once your application has been approved and your passport is issued, it will be delivered to the mailing address specified in your application. The Service Canada Receiving Agent service is free of charge and available in these Service Canada Centers. Certain Canada Post locations offer the service for a fee. You can pay your application fees at a Service Canada Centre by: 1  certified cheque or money order (postal or bank) made payable to the Receiver General for Canada; 2  credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express); 3  debit card; or.
1 Can I apply at a Regional office of Passport Canada? 2  Yes. 3  If you submit an application in person, or if an application is submitted on your behalf by an acceptable third party at a Passport Canada office in Canada, Passport Canada will courier the passport to your U.S. address. 1 Yes. 2
Proof of Identity for Canadian Passport Application. You must submit at least one document to support your identity and the name to appear in your Canadian passport. This document must be issued by a federal, provincial, or municipal government. It must be valid and must include both your name and signature. 1 Get your guarantor to sign Section 2 of the passport application form, to sign the back of one photograph, and to sign any photocopies (both sides) of documents. 2  Be sure that you sign and date all three pages of the passport application form. 3  The application form must be dated within the last 12 months.
On July 1, 2013, new passport fees came into effect. You can pay your application fees at a Service Canada Centre by: 1  certified cheque or money order (postal or bank) made payable to the Receiver General for Canada; 2  credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express); 3  debit card; or. 4  cash (exact change only)
Find out if you can renew your passport. If you already have an adult passport, you may be able to renew it. Renewing a passport is simpler than applying for a new one. Answer a few questions or read the eligibility requirements to f
8. Apply for your Canadian passport. 1  Apply by mail. 2  Send the documents and fee to: Passport Canada, Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada, Gatineau QC K1A 0G3. 3  If you are sending your application by courier, send it to Passport Canada, 22 de Varennes Street, Gatineau, QC J8T 8R1. Apply for your Canadian passport. 1  Apply by mail. 2  Apply in person by visiting a Passport Canada regional office, a participating Service Canada Center, or a participating Canada Post Office.
Passport Applications. You need a Canada passport application form if you need to get your first Canadian passport, renew your Canadian passport or replace a lost or stolen Canadian passport. 