Full Definition of CHIMICHANGA. : a tortilla wrapped around a filling (as of meat) and deep-fried. See chimichanga defined for English-language learners. See chimichanga defined for kids. 
A chimichanga is a burrito that has been deep-fried. This tortilla-based dish can also be called a chivichanga. It is often served in Tex-Mex, Southwestern, or Mexican restaurants. A chimichanga is generally easy to prepare and inexpensive to buy. Chimichangas are made just like the traditional burrito. It begins with a large tortilla filled with shredded meat or seafood.
5. chimichanga. While more commonly known as a declicious burrito-like Mexican food, a chimichanga has been used as far back as 2002 in the New York City region as slang for a unit of time equivalent to approximately 8 minutes. The specific unit of time a chimichanga designates is the subject of debate, as its origin lies in the fact that it takes 1 stoned undergraduate about 8 minutes to consume 1
You'll need about 5 cups of the shredded meat mixture for the chimichangas. Spoon it evenly over the tortillas. Roll up each tortilla, tucking in the ends to make a secure fat tube that resembles an overgrown Chinese egg roll. Secure the rolls with toothpicks. Shortly before you plan to eat the chimichangas, warm at least 4 inches of oil in a Dutch oven or other large heavy pan to 375 degrees F. Fry the chimichangas one or two at a time until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Turn the chimis to fry them evenly.
Heat oil to 375 to 400 degrees F. Fry the chimichangas (1 or 2 at a time), approximately 3 minutes or until golden brown. Remove from oil, drain, and place on serving plates. Top with Cheddar cheese, lettuce, green onions, and any optional ingredients that you prefer. Makes 6 chimichangas. Contact Linda Stradley-By Google What's Cooking America copyright 2004-2014 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved.
Chimichanga (/tʃɪmiˈtʃaeŋɡə/ ; [tʃɪmiˈtʃæŋɡə]) tʃimiˈtʃaŋɡa is a-deep fried burrito that is popular In Southwestern.U. s cuisine and The mexican states Of sinaloa And. sonora The dish is typically prepared by filling a flour tortilla with a wide range of ingredients, most commonly rice, cheese, machaca, carne adobada, or shredded chicken, and folding it into a rectangular package. It is then deep-fried and can be accompanied with salsa, guacamole, sour cream, and/or cheese.
Woody Johnson, founder of Macayo's Mexican Kitchen, claims he invented the chimichanga in 1946 when he put some burritos into a deep fryer as an experiment at his original restaurant Woody's El Nido. The dish is typically prepared by filling a flour tortilla with a wide range of ingredients, most commonly rice, cheese, machaca, carne adobada, or shredded chicken, and folding it into a rectangular package. It is then deep-fried and can be accompanied with salsa, guacamole, sour cream, and/or cheese.
A chimichanga is a burrito prepared with a choice of meat, vegetables, and spices. deep-fried to a golden perfection, and served on a bed or lettuce with cheese and mild sauce. The residents of Tucson take their chimis very seriously and prefer large, overstuffed versions. Remove from oil, drain, and place on serving plates. Top with Cheddar cheese, lettuce, green onions, and any optional ingredients that you prefer. Makes 6 chimichangas. Contact Linda Stradley-By Google What's Cooking America copyright 2004-2014 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved.
Debate over the origins of the chimichanga is ongoing: The words chimi and changa come from two Mexican Spanish terms: chamuscado, (past tense of the verb chamuscar) that means burned, and changa, related to chinga, (chingá present tense of the vulgar verb), chingar a rude expression for the unexpected or a small. insult The dish is typically prepared by filling a flour tortilla with a wide range of ingredients, most commonly rice, cheese, machaca, carne adobada, or shredded chicken, and folding it into a rectangular package. It is then deep-fried and can be accompanied with salsa, guacamole, sour cream, and/or cheese.