Bacillus thuringiensis (or Bt) is a Gram-positive, soil-dwelling bacterium, commonly used as a biological pesticide. The Bt genes engineered into crops and approved for release include, singly and stacked: Cry1A.105, CryIAb, CryIF, Cry2Ab, Cry3Bb1, Cry34Ab1, Cry35Ab1, mCry3A, and VIP, and the engineered crops include corn and cotton.
Definition of BT. : a preparation of a bacterium (Bacillus thuringiensis) often modified by genetic engineering for use as a biopesticide against insects and especially lepidopteran larvae; also: the bacterium itself. ADVERTISEMENT. Tweet
Bt can be found almost everywhere in the world. Surveys have indicated that Bt is distributed in the soil sparsely but frequently worldwide. Bt has been found in all types of terrain, including beaches, desert, and tundra habitats. Bt is largely used in agriculture, especially organic farming. Bt is also used in urban aerial spraying programs, and in transgenic crops. To learn more about each of these topics, click on the corresponding link on the left.
Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) is a bacteria that produces proteins which are toxic to insects. Bt’s extreme toxicity comes at no surprise. It’s in the same family of bacteria as B. anthracis, which causes anthrax, and B. cereus, which causes food poisoning. Research has shown that the Bt toxin persists in the gastrointestinal tract of human-flora-associated rats weeks after exposure. Research has shown that Bt has a toxic effect on the lungs and other organs. In rare cases, Bt can even wreak havoc on the eyes, causing severe irritation and even blindness.
Bt is toxic to many of the insects that can disrupt a farming operation. It’s widely used as a biological pesticide and, in fact, Bt is the most widely used biological pesticide in the world. Research has shown that the Bt toxin persists in the gastrointestinal tract of human-flora-associated rats weeks after exposure. Research has shown that Bt has a toxic effect on the lungs and other organs. In rare cases, Bt can even wreak havoc on the eyes, causing severe irritation and even blindness.
Bt belongs to the family of bacteria, Bacillus cerus (B. cerus). B. cerus strains produce toxins that cause gastroenteritis (food poisoning) in humans. Bt is differentiated from B. cerus because it contains a plasmid (flash animation) that produces the protein crystals that are toxic to insects. Bt is largely used in agriculture, especially organic farming. Bt is also used in urban aerial spraying programs, and in transgenic crops. To learn more about each of these topics, click on the corresponding link on the left.
Bt stands for the naturally occurring bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis. Bt lives in the soil and is found all over the world. Some types of Bt produce a protein crystal that is toxic to insects. These protein crystals have been used in organic farming for over 50 years to control insects. Insect resistance is one of the biggest concerns with Bt. Up till now, resistance in the field have been very rare. But laboratory studies have shown that insects are capable of developing resistance. It is only a matter of time when insects in the field develop resistance to Bt.
Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) is a spore forming (flash animation) bacterium that produces crystals protein (cry proteins), which are toxic to many species of insects. Bt is largely used in agriculture, especially organic farming. Bt is also used in urban aerial spraying programs, and in transgenic crops. To learn more about each of these topics, click on the corresponding link on the left.
Bt. n. A soil bacterium (Bacillus thuringiensis) that produces proteins toxic to certain insects. It has been used as an insecticide, and genes for the toxins have been incorporated into genetically modified crop plants to control insect pests. [From New Latin. 