Water Hardness. Water Hardness The amount of dissolved calcium and magnesium in the water. The simple definition of water hardness is the amount of dissolved calcium and magnesium in the water. Hard water is high in dissolved minerals, both calcium and magnesium.
Hard Water Definition. Hard water is water that contains high amounts of Ca 2+ and/or Mg 2+ . Sometimes Mn 2+ and other multivalent cations are included in the measure of hardness. Note water may contains minerals and yet not be considered hard, by this definition. According to the USGS, the hardness of water is determined based on the concentration of dissolved multivalent cations: 1  soft water - 0 to 60 mg/L (milligrams per liter) as calcium carbonate. 2  moderately hard water - 61 to 120 mg/L.
Definition. Natural or treated water that does not contain a significant amount of dissolved minerals such as compounds of calcium or magnesium. It produces copious lather with a little amount of SOAP or detergent and does not form scales in boilers, heaters, and kettles. Show more usage examples... You should try to work with soft water in your factory if at all possible so that you aren't having extra minerals involved. 9 people found this helpful. My friend informed me that this was soft water and not the typical water that I was used to and that interested me a lot.
Hard vs soft water explained (Continued). Chore-doers will love using soft water, as tasks can actually be performed more efficiently with it. Soap will lather better and items will be left cleaner. Glasses will sparkle and hair will look healthy. 1 | 2. Chore-doers will love using soft water, as tasks can actually be performed more efficiently with it. Soap will lather better and items will be left cleaner. Glasses will sparkle and hair will look healthy. The shower curtain will be scum-free. Clothes and skin are left softer.
I'm trying to watch the sodium in my diet. Regular tap water contains very little sodium. The amount of sodium a water softener adds to tap water depends on the hardness of the water. Hard water contains large amounts of calcium and magnesium. 
See also: Water softening. Soft water is surface water that contains low concentrations of ions and in particular is low in ions of calcium and magnesium. Soft water naturally occurs where rainfall and the drainage basin of rivers are formed of hard, impervious and calcium poor rocks. Because soft water has few calcium ions, there is no inhibition of the action of soaps and no soap scum is formed in normal washing. Similarly, soft water produces no calcium deposits in water heating systems. Water that is not soft is referred to as hard water.
Soft Water. Either pure water or water containing salts that do not react with soap to form insoluble soap scum. Before the use of water-softening chemicals, the primary source of soft water was from rain, and rainwater was often caught and saved in washtubs or barrels. Thesaurus AntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend:
Water Softening. Soft water and hard water are common terms used in households across Pennsylvania. If you asked someone what these terms meant, you would probably get a definition based on how well the water cleans when used with detergents or soaps or what is left behind in tea kettles. Hard Water/Soft Water. Whether a water supply is labelled “soft” or “hard” is dependent on the presence of two highly soluble minerals, calcium and magnesium. From a health standpoint, these minerals have no adverse effects and are, in fact, essential daily nutrients.