Scabies, known as the seven-year itch, is a contagious skin infestation by the mite Sarcoptes scabiei. The most common symptoms are severe itchiness and a pimple-like rash. Occasionally tiny burrows may be seen in the skin. When first infected, usually two to six weeks are required before symptoms occur. 
Scabies is an infestation of the skin by the human itch mite (Sarcoptes scabiei var. hominis). The microscopic scabies mite burrows into the upper layer of the skin where it lives and lays its eggs. The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent
191 Followers. A. Scabies is an itchy, highly contagious skin disease caused by an infestation by the itch mite Sarcoptes scabiei. Mites are small eight-legged parasites (in contrast to insects, which have six legs)
Scabies is a contagious skin infection which itches intensely. It is caused by tiny mites called Sarcoptes scabiei, which burrow into the skin. A GP talks about the causes, symptoms and treatment. Scabies is a contagious skin condition caused by tiny mites that burrow into the skin. The main symptom of scabies is intense itching that's worse at night. It also causes a skin rash on areas where the mites have burrowed. Read more about the symptoms of scabies.
Scabies is spread by prolonged skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies sometimes also can be spread by contact with items such as clothing, bedding, or towels that have been used by a person with scabies, but such spread is very uncommon unless the infested person has crusted scabies. The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes.
Introduction. Scabies is a contagious skin condition caused by tiny mites that burrow into the skin. The main symptom of scabies is intense itching that's worse at night. It also causes a skin rash on areas where the mites have burrowed. Read more about the symptoms of scabies.
Scabies is contagious. However, it usually requires fairly long skin-to-skin contact with an infested person (for example, carrying a person, sleeping with the person, or sexual partners). Human scabies is caused by the human itch mite (Sarcoptes scabiei, variation or subtype hominis). This itch mite burrows into the upper layers of skin and lays its eggs in the skin.
1 Scabies is a contagious skin condition caused by a small mite. 2  The mite lays eggs in human skin, which hatch and grow into adult mites. 3  This means that symptoms of the condition can last for months or even years. 4  Scabies causes generalized itching and is sometimes called the seven year itch.. Scabies Overview. 1 