People who shaped South Africa's History: Jan van Riebeeck, Paul Kruger, Daniel Francois François, Malan Oliver, Tambo Hendrik, Verwoerd Steve, Biko. P. W, Botha. F. w De, Klerk Joe, Slovo Chris, Hani Winnie, Mandela Eugene, Terreblanche Mangosuthu, Buthelezi Nelson, Mandela Desmond. tutu
Located in sub-Saharan Africa, West Africa is defined by a series of elongated countries that border the Atlantic Ocean, with an exception of Burkina Faso. The countries are small in area compared to the other parts of Africa.
The cities of Mali became important trading centers for all of West Africa as well as famous centers of wealth, culture, and learning. Timbuktu, an important city in Mali, became one of the major cultural centers not only of Africa but of the entire world. Vast libraries and Islamic universities were built.
The country is famous for its abundance of mineral resources, accounting for a significant proportion of world production and reserves, and South African mining companies are key players in the global industry.
In its heyday, Timbuktu was an important trading hub for two of Africa's most important items of commerce: salt and gold. The wealth of the city is evident from the quotation above. But Timbuktu also became an important city for Islamic scholarship.
GHANA Ghana was the first great African empire of the western Sudan. Historians believe that a group of people called the Soninke founded Ghana as early as the year 300 and it thrived until around 1200. Ghana became known for its rich culture, wealth, organization, and power. The name Ghana means both “warrior king” and “king of gold.” These were good names for an empire with an army who ruled with iron spears and an incredible supply of wealth derived from their control of the gold trade in West Africa.
With South Africa s economy built on gold and diamond mining, the sector is an important foreign exchange earner, with gold accounting for more than one-third of exports. In 2009, the country s diamond industry was the fourth largest in the world. South Africa is also a major producer of coal, manganese and chrome. Given its history and mineral wealth, it is no surprise that the country s mining companies are key players in the global industry.