Save for later Saved. Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman Loera, seen here after his 1993 arrest, escaped from a maximum security federal prison in 2001 and continues to be a fugitive. On Feb. 14, Chicago announced that Guzman, the head of Mexico's Sinaloa crime cartel, is their new Public Enemy No. 1. 
Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman was nabbed in a U.S.-backed raid on a resort condo in Mazatlan, after his former bodyguards pointed Mexican officials to the elusive kingpin's compound of seven homes in the Pacific coast town of Culiacan. 
TWEET SHARE. Update July 12, 2015: El Chapo has fooled Mexican justice again by escaping from the maximum security prison of Altiplano. Fusion aired a documentary titled “El Chapo Guzman, GUZMáN ceo Of” crime In november. 2013 El chapo was born in the Small sinaloa town Of La tuna and is the oldest of seven. children Update July 12, 2015: El Chapo has fooled Mexican justice again by escaping from the maximum security prison of Altiplano. Fusion aired a documentary titled “El Chapo Guzman, GUZMáN ceo Of” crime In november. 2013
[xoaˈkin artʃiˈβaldo ɡuzˈman loˈeɾa] ; born either 25 December 1954 or 4 April 1957; disputed) is a Mexican drug lord who heads the Sinaloa Cartel, a criminal organization named after the Mexican Pacific coast state of Sinaloa where it was formed. Known as  El Chapo Guzman  (Guzmán The Shorty, guzman guzmán When he was a teenager, however, his father kicked him out of his house, and he went to live with his grandfather. It was during his adolescence that Guzman guzmán earned the Nickname El, Chapo mexican slang For, shorty for his.1 68 (m 5., ft 6.) in stature and stocky physical. appearance
Caption Donald Trump on escaped drug lord 'El Chapo': 'You can't be intimidated'. Donald Trump is in a war of words with Mexican drug lord Joaquin El Chapo Guzman, who escaped from prison. Donald Trump is in a war of words with Mexican drug lord Joaquin El Chapo Guzman, who escaped from prison. Tracy Wilkinson Contact Reporter. 
Or at least that's what everyone is saying after Joaquin El Chapo Guzman Guzmán loera escaped from A mexican maximum security prison for the second time On, sunday sending social media accounts into a. Frenzy'we ve heard this story, before. Though this'isn t the first Time El chapo escaped from a maximum security. prison 
A week after his capture in the resort city of Mazatlan, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman sits in a cell in Mexico's highest-security prison, a sprawling complex surrounded by barbed-wire fences outside of Mexico City where he is held along with other high-profile drug traffickers. ' 1 El Chapo,' drug kingpin, charged in Mexico. Joaquin El Chapo Guzman, the commission said that day, was far more menacing than even Capone. What Al Capone was to beer and whiskey during Prohibition, Guzman is to narcotics, said Art Bilek, the commission's executive vice president.
The forces were following yet another tip about the whereabouts of one of the world’s most wanted drug kingpins, Joaquin Joaquín Guzman — guzmán loera Known As, el chapo “Which” — means shorty who had eluded such raids for 13 years since escaping, from prison by many accounts in a. laundry cart “The takedown of Chapo Guzman guzmán is a thorn in the side of The Sinaloa, cartel but not a dagger in its,” heart Said George, grayson a professor at The college Of william And mary who studies the drug. War over, time as he eluded, capture his legend and the mystery of his whereabouts. grew
Joaquin El Chapo Guzman, already a nearly mythical character in Mexico, added to his legend over the weekend by escaping from prison yet again. After his last escape, in 2001 in a laundry cart, he eluded authorities for more than a dozen years. I think there's a false narrative that says El Chapo is kind of this benevolent businessman, he said. Guzman is known for not hesitating to use force when he needs to, and for bribing officials who get in his way, Stewart said.