Definition of ASSAY. 1. archaic: trial, attempt. 2. : examination and determination as to characteristics (as weight, measure, or quality). 3. : analysis (as of an ore or drug) to determine the presence, absence, or quantity of one or more components; also: a test used in this analysis. 
Assay: An assay is an analysis done to determine: 1  The presence of a substance and the amount of that substance. 2  Thus, an assay may be done for example to determine the level of thyroid hormones in the blood of a person suspected of being hypothyroid (or hyperthyroid). 3  The biological or pharmacological potency of a drug. Assay: An assay is an analysis done to determine: 1  The presence of a substance and the amount of that substance. 2  The biological or pharmacological potency of a drug.
A metallurgical assay is a compositional analysis of an ore, metal, or alloy. Some assay methods are suitable for raw materials; others are more appropriate for finished goods. Raw precious metals (bullion) are assayed by an assay office. In the bullion fire assay process, a sample from the article is wrapped in a lead foil with copper and silver. The wrapped sample, along with prepared control samples, heat at 1650 F (temperature varies with exact method) in a cupel made of compressed bone ash or magnesium oxide powder.
Fire assaying is the quantitative determination in which a metal or metals are separated from impurities by fusion processes and weighed in order to determine the amount present in the original sample. For fire assaying ores, usually fluxes, materials such as borax, soda, silica are added to the ore. The amounts of each chemical added to the flux mixture depends upon the elements present in the particular ore, such as sulfur and iron.
DEFINITION of 'Assay'. The process of analyzing a physical sample to determine its composition. In financial markets, the term assay usually refers to the chemical analysis of a mineral or ore sample to ascertain its content of precious metals or minerals, such as gold, copper, or uranium.
(third-person singular simple present assays, present participle assaying, simple past and past participle assayed). 1  To attempt (something). [ 2 from 14th c.]. ( 3 archaic, intransitive) To try, attempt (to do something). [ 4 14th-19th c.]. 5  To analyze or estimate the composition or value of (a metal, ore etc.). verb. An assay is defined as the finding of how much metal is in an alloy. An example of an assay is a scientific look into the compilation of a substance that is believed to have gold in it.
An assay is an investigative (analytic) procedure in laboratory medicine, pharmacology, environmental biology and molecular biology for qualitatively assessing or quantitatively measuring the presence or amount or the functional activity of a target entity (the analyte). The analyte can be a drug or biochemical substance or a cell in an organism or organic sample. The measured entity is generally called the analyte, or the measurand or the target of the assay.
The definition of assay is to test or survey, especially to determine the quantity of metal that a mixture has or to test a medicine. 1  An example of the word assay is when a teacher observes her classroom to determine what the students are doing. verb. An assay is defined as the finding of how much metal is in an alloy. An example of an assay is a scientific look into the compilation of a substance that is believed to have gold in it.