When a virus enters a cell, the cell decreases production of proteins through a kinase reaction to block creation of new viruses. VP35 blocks this cell reaction and instead stimulates increased protein production. Ebola, with only seven genes, is able to manipulate many complex cellular processes. How all of this can be accomplished with only 9 genes is not clear. Now the very intelligent Ebola virus takes front and center, with a complex, very deadly lifestyle and only 7 genes. Ebola virus builds a huge vessel for travel and uses many different attachment techniques for each human cell type.
Ebola virus disease (EVD; also Ebola hemorrhagic fever, or EHF), or simply Ebola, is a viral hemorrhagic fever of humans and other primates caused by ebolaviruses. Signs and symptoms typically start between two days and three weeks after contracting the virus with a fever, sore throat, muscular pain, and headaches. It is believed that between people, Ebola disease spreads only by direct contact with the blood or body fluids of a person who has developed symptoms of the disease. Body fluids that may contain Ebola viruses include saliva, mucus, vomit, feces, sweat, tears, breast milk, urine and semen.
Visitors to the Kitum cave on top of Mt. Elgon have contracted Marburg, while Ebola has been isolated from monkeys in Uganda, within 60 miles of Mt. Elgon. Many residents of Central Africa (between 2% and 7% of the population tested) have antibodies to Ebola virus. Description. An acute, infectious, hemorrhagic viral fever. Ebola is the second member of the family Filoviridae, or thread viruses. It is an enveloped, single-stranded, unsegmented, negative-sense RNA virus.
Electron micrograph of ebola (CDC) . Ebola Ebola Zaire Ebola Sudan Ebola Reston Ebola-Tai or Ebola Ivory-Coast Also known as: Green monkey fever. . . . . . . Description. An acute, infectious, hemorrhagic viral fever. Ebola is the second member of the family Filoviridae, or thread viruses. It is an enveloped, single-stranded, unsegmented, negative-sense RNA virus. It has the characteristic filamentous structure of a thread virus: it can appear shaped like a U, a 6, or coiled like a snail; and can sometimes be branched
Ebola virus does an incredible amount with its 7 genes. Unlike other viruses that rapidly mutate, such as HIV, the genetic material from each of Ebola’s five subtypes has been extremely stable over 40 years. How all of this can be accomplished with only 9 genes is not clear. Now the very intelligent Ebola virus takes front and center, with a complex, very deadly lifestyle and only 7 genes. Ebola virus builds a huge vessel for travel and uses many different attachment techniques for each human cell type.
From 1976 (when it was first identified) through 2013, the World Health Organization reported 1,716 confirmed cases. The largest outbreak to date is the ongoing 2014 West Africa Ebola virus outbreak, which has caused a large number of deaths in Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia. It is believed that between people, Ebola disease spreads only by direct contact with the blood or body fluids of a person who has developed symptoms of the disease. Body fluids that may contain Ebola viruses include saliva, mucus, vomit, feces, sweat, tears, breast milk, urine and semen.
Ebola virus has a mere 7 protein-encoding genes, but the RNA that is its genetic material holds hidden information. One key gene (GP, for glycoprotein) has an overlapping reading frame so that an alternate form harbors a stretch of added adenines. BACK TO THE GENES. A human body overwhelmed with Ebola virus is like a castle whose defenses fail, from the inside out, all orchestrated by that puzzling handful of genes. GP targets the virus to certain cell types, deforms the endothelium, and destroys antigen presentation.
Ebola virus (/ɛˈboʊlə/ ; EBOV, formerly designated Zaire ebolavirus) is one of five known viruses within the genus Ebolavirus. Four of the five known ebolaviruses, including EBOV, cause a severe and often fatal hemorrhagic fever in humans and other mammals, known as Ebola virus disease (EVD). In one study, mice with one copy of the NPC1 gene removed showed an 80 percent survival rate fifteen days after exposure to mouse-adapted Ebola virus, while only 10 percent of unmodified mice survived this long.
I hope it is only a matter of time until researchers deduce how variations of the 20,000-gene human genome or its expression resist the 7-gene genome of Ebola virus, and figure out how to replicate the response. BACK TO THE GENES. A human body overwhelmed with Ebola virus is like a castle whose defenses fail, from the inside out, all orchestrated by that puzzling handful of genes. GP targets the virus to certain cell types, deforms the endothelium, and destroys antigen presentation.
With only 7 genes, Ebola has many ways to avoid and fight antibodies. When Ebola virus is able to kill blood cells, then there aren’t many antibodies produced. The large size of the virus filaments, which are filled with stable glycoproteins, is a big obstacle for antibodies. How all of this can be accomplished with only 9 genes is not clear. Now the very intelligent Ebola virus takes front and center, with a complex, very deadly lifestyle and only 7 genes. Ebola virus builds a huge vessel for travel and uses many different attachment techniques for each human cell type.