Although the word arthritis means joint inflammation, the term is used to describe around 200 rheumatic diseases and conditions that affect joints, the tissues that surround the joint, and other connective tissue.5. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis. The term arthritis is used to describe numerous rheumatic diseases and conditions that affect joints. Some forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, can affect multiple organs and cause widespread symptoms.
ar·thri·tis. n. Any of several diseases of the joints, such as osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, characterized by pain, swelling, and often stiffness, and usually involving inflammation. ar·thrit′ic (-thrĭt′ĭk) adj. & n. ar·thrit′i·cal·ly adv. (ɑrˈθrɪt ɪk). adj. n. 
Full Definition of ARTHRITIS. : inflammation of joints due to infectious, metabolic, or constitutional causes; also: a specific arthritic condition. See arthritis defined for English-language learners. See arthritis defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Rheumatoid arthritis: An autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation of joints. Rheumatoid disease can also involve inflammation of tissues in other areas of the body, such as the lungs, heart, and eyes. 
Arthritis (from Greek arthro- , joint + -itis, inflammation; plural: arthritides) is a form of joint disorder that involves inflammation of one or more joints. There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. Pain is often a constant and may be localized to the joint affected. The pain from arthritis is due to inflammation that occurs around the joint, damage to the joint from disease, daily wear and tear of joint, muscle strains caused by forceful movements against stiff painful joints and fatigue.
Arthritis: Inflammation of a joint. When joints are inflamed they can develop stiffness, warmth, swelling, redness and pain. There are over 100 types of arthritis. (see osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, lupus, gout, pseudogout).
While the word arthritis is used by clinicians to specifically mean joint inflammation it is used in public health to refer more generally to more than 100 rheumatic diseases and conditions that affect joints, the tissues which surround the joint and other connective tissue. 