Rube Goldberg Process. By definition a Rube Goldberg machine is a machine that performs a very simple task in a very complicated and over-engineered manner. A chain reaction occurs where one element triggers the next element and so on, ultimately triggering the final element-the task of the machine. 
The self-operating napkin is a famous cartoon that sums up what Rube Goldberg machines are all about: creating a machine (or contraption or invention or device or apparatus) that uses a chain reaction to accomplish a very simple task in a very complicated manner. There are annual National Rube Goldberg Machine Contests, where people submit their own machines to see which one is the most complex. Maybe you could take part in that one day! Have a Marvelous Monday!
The Rube Goldberg machines you build are different from the machines people are used to seeing. A good Rube Goldberg machine incorporates the everyday machines people are used to seeing and connects them in ways that may seem idiotic or ingenious. History of the Rube Goldberg machine contest. Rube Goldberg Machine Contests bring Goldberg's cartoons to life in a way that pulls students away from traditional ways of looking at problems and sends them spinning into the intuitive, chaotic realm of imagination.
Using the character, he would illustrate inventions that later become known as the “Rube Goldberg Machine”. A “Rube Goldberg Machine” is an extremely complicated device that executes a very simple task in a complex, indirect way. This is now used as an expression to describe any system that's confusing or complicated and came about from Goldberg's illustrations of absurd machines. The first illustration depicting a “Rube Goldberg Machine” was an Automatic Weight Reducing Machine in 1914 using components such as a donut, bomb, wax, balloon and hot stove to trap an obese person in a sound and food proof prison, who had to lose weight before wriggling free.
Rube Goldberg: The father of inventions. | The popular board game Mousetrap is an example of a Rube Goldberg-inspired machine, a contraption that contains elaborate mechanisms with a vast array of moving parts to perform a simple function. Mo Rocca visits the Rube Goldberg Machine Contest, where less is never more. 
He is the inspiration for various international competitions, known as Rube Goldberg Machine Contests, which challenge participants to make a complicated machine to perform a simple task. He is best known for a series of popular cartoons depicting complicated gadgets that perform simple tasks in indirect, convoluted ways, similar to Heath Robinson devices in the UK, as well as the Storm P devices in Denmark.
Something for nothing (1940). A Rube Goldberg machine is a contraption, invention, device or apparatus that is deliberately over-engineered to perform a simple task in a complicated fashion, usually including a chain reaction. The expression is named after American cartoonist and inventor Rube Goldberg (1883–1970). For example, news headlines include Is Rep. Bill Thomas the Rube Goldberg of Legislative Reform? and Retirement 'insurance' as a Rube Goldberg machine.