Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan in New York City, in addition, many francophone black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance. The Movement also included the new African-American cultural expressions across the urban areas in the Northeast and Midwest United States affected by the Great Migration (African American) , of which Harlem was the largest. The Harlem Renaissance was considered to be a rebirth of African American arts.
Lesson Summary. The Harlem Renaissance was an African-American cultural movement that flourished throughout the 1920s and into the 1930s. Called the 'New Negro Movement' during its time, Harlem Renaissance artists, writers and musicians developed new ways to express African-American pride. Central to the Harlem Renaissance was the concept that the time had come for African-Americans to take their rightful place in society and contribute to culture in meaningful ways. Although the movement peaked throughout the late 1920s, its impact continued into the 1930s and beyond.
Ms. Angelou talked about the poetry of the Harlem Renaissance and its impact on racial identity and culture. Her remarks were part of an annual festival honoring Zora Neale Hurston where she received an award for poetry and efforts on behalf of African-Americans. close. 
'The New Negro Movement,' as it was called during its time, the Harlem Renaissance was essentially the flowering of a unique African-American culture. African-American writers, poets, artists, musicians and intellectuals found new ways to express pride in their race and culture. Central to the Harlem Renaissance was the concept that the time had come for African-Americans to take their rightful place in society and contribute to culture in meaningful ways. Although the movement peaked throughout the late 1920s, its impact continued into the 1930s and beyond.
The Harlem Renaissance was a movement that spanned the 1920s. The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem, New York. During the time, it was known as the  New Negro Movement , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke. The Movement also included the new African-American cultural expressions across the urban areas in the Northeast and Midwest United States affected by the Great Migration (African American) , of which Harlem was the largest. The Harlem Renaissance was considered to be a rebirth of African American arts.
Harlem would see new black writers in the years to come. Musicians, poets, and artists would continue to make their home there, but it never again served as the focal point of a creative movement with the national and international impact of the Harlem Renaissance. Certainly Harlem is central to the Harlem Renaissance, but it serves more as an anchor for the movement than as its sole location. In reality, the Harlem Renaissance both drew from and spread its influence across the United States, the Caribbean, and the world.
The Harlem Renaissance. The Harlem Renaissance was an African-American artistic and intellectual movement that flourished throughout the 1920s. The movement was based in Harlem, New York, but its influence extended throughout the nation and even the world. Central to the Harlem Renaissance was the concept that the time had come for African-Americans to take their rightful place in society and contribute to culture in meaningful ways. Although the movement peaked throughout the late 1920s, its impact continued into the 1930s and beyond.
This African-American cultural movement became known as The New Negro Movement and later as the Harlem Renaissance. Although it was short lived the Harlem Renaissance changed the face of black America forever. The literary movement during the Harlem Renaissance was a raging fire that brought about new life for the African American writer; its flame still burns today through the writings of contemporary African American writers.... 
The Harlem Renaissance. The Savoy Ballroom in Harlem in 1926 was The Place and Lindy Hop was The Dance! It was time for a cultural celebration. African Americans had endured centuries of slavery and the struggle for abolition. The end of bondage had not brought the promised land many had envisioned. The results were phenomenal. The artists of the Harlem Renaissance undoubtedly transformed African American culture. But the impact on all American culture was equally strong. For the first time, white America could not look away.
The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem between the end of World War I and the middle of the 1930s. During this period Harlem was a cultural center, drawing black writers, artists, musicians, photographers, poets, and scholars. 