Under the NHL's realignment for the 2013-14 season, Jonathan Toews, far left, and the Blackhawks will play in the same division as Andrew Ladd, second from left, and the Jets. Same goes for Henrik Zetterberg, second from right, and the Red Wings and goalie Carey Price, far right, and the Canadiens. Now, there are 16 teams on one side, 14 on the other and 16 playoff spots to divvy up. This is how the teams would be seeded in their new divisions based on last year's performance. Because they'll play out-of-conference games this season, comparisons to last season are fairly inapplicable.
With this new alignment came a new playoff system. Under the current NHL “pod-playoff format,” 16 teams still make the playoffs like under the old alignment, eight from each conference. The three teams with the most points in each of the league’s four divisions qualify for the playoffs. The team with the highest point-total in each division wins their division
With the NHL playoffs about to start, time to take a refresher on how teams are ranked this year, the first under the league's new post-season format.​. First, a brief recap of regular-season realignment: instead of 15 teams in each conference, there were 16 teams in the East and 14 in the West. Just like under the old system, eight teams from each conference make the playoffs, but it's no longer a simple matter of the top eight teams in the conference qualifying. The top three teams in each division automatically get in, accounting for 12 of the league's 16 playoff berths.
In 1924 the NHL playoffs expanded from two to three teams (with the top team getting a bye to the two-game total goal NHL finals), but because the first-place Hamilton Tigers refused to play under this format, the second and third place teams played for the NHL championship in a two-game total goals affair. The Stanley Cup playoffs (French: Les series séries eliminatoires éliminatoires De La) coupe stanley is an elimination tournament In The National hockey league consisting of four rounds-of-best of. Seven series eight teams from each of the two conferences qualify for the playoffs based on regular season. points totals
16 teams will qualify for the Stanley Cup Playoffs. The format is a set bracket that is largely division-based with wild cards. The top three teams in each division will make up the first 12 teams in the playoffs. The remaining four spots will be filled by the next two highest-placed finishers in each conference, based on regular-season record and regardless of division
Eight teams in each conference qualify for the playoffs. In the playoff series format instituted in 2014, the first, second, and third place team in each of the four divisions qualify for the playoffs automatically. The Stanley Cup playoffs (French: Les series séries eliminatoires éliminatoires De La) coupe stanley is an elimination tournament In The National hockey league consisting of four rounds-of-best of. Seven series eight teams from each of the two conferences qualify for the playoffs based on regular season. points totals
Gone is the simple format that sees the top eight teams in each conference gain Stanley Cup playoff spots. Now, there are 16 teams on one side, 14 on the other and 16 playoff spots to divvy up. This is how the teams would be seeded in their new divisions based on last year's performance. Because they'll play out-of-conference games this season, comparisons to last season are fairly inapplicable.
Under the new postseason system, the top three teams in each division make the playoffs, with two wild-cards in each conference (for a total of eight playoff teams from each conference). The format is division-based, similar to the 1981–82 system. The Stanley Cup playoffs (French: Les series séries eliminatoires éliminatoires De La) coupe stanley is an elimination tournament In The National hockey league consisting of four rounds-of-best of. Seven series eight teams from each of the two conferences qualify for the playoffs based on regular season. points totals
For the first time in 20 years, the NHL's playoff format is primarily based on divisions, not conferences. No more 1 vs. 8, 2 vs. 7, etc. Change is hard, and sure, the new way is a little bit complicated. 