Similarly, prototype in psychology refers to what is perceived to be a complete image of something with all expected qualities and characteristics present. In cognitive science, prototype theory refers to graded categorization where some members of a category are more central, or more perfect, than others. 
Cognitive Psychology: Attention · Decision making · Learning · Judgement · Memory · Motivation · Perception · Reasoning · Thinking-Cognitive processes Cognition-Outline Index. Prototype Theory is a model of graded categorization in Cognitive Science, where all members of a category do not have equal status. For example, chair is more prototypical of the concept furniture, than, say, lamp. These combinations pose a lesser problem in terms of prototype theory. In situations involving adjectives (e.g. tall), one encounters the question of whether or not the prototype of [tall] is a 6 feet tall man, or a 400 feet skyscraper [Dirven and Taylor 1988].
However, the specifics of the two theories are different. Prototype theory suggests that a new stimulus is compared to a single prototype in a category, while exemplar theory suggests that a new stimulus is compared to multiple known exemplars in a category. Exemplar Theory is a proposal concerning the way humans categorize objects and ideas in psychology. It argues that individuals make category judgments by comparing new stimuli with instances already stored in memory. The instance stored in memory is the “exemplar” 
Prototype theory, in linguistics, provides an explanation for the way word meanings are organized in the mind. It is argued that words are categorized on the basis of a whole range of typical features. For example, a prototypical bird has feathers, wings, a beak, the ability to fly and so on. 
Prototype theory is a mode of graded categorization in cognitive science, where some members of a category are more central than others. For example, when asked to give an example of the concept furniture, chair is more frequently cited than, say, stool. Recently, Peter Gaerdenfors (gärdenfors) 2000 has elaborated a possible partial explanation of prototype theory in terms of-multi dimensional feature spaces Called Conceptual, spaces where a category is defined in terms of a conceptual. Distance more central members of a category are between the peripheral. members
Thus instead of a definition based model-e.g. a bird may be defined as elements with the features [+feathers], [+beak] and [+ability to fly], prototype theory would consider a category like bird as consisting of different elements which have unequal status-e.g. a robin is more prototypical of a bird than, say a penguin. Recently, Peter Gaerdenfors (gärdenfors) 2000 has elaborated a possible partial explanation of prototype theory in terms of-multi dimensional feature spaces Called Conceptual, spaces where a category is defined in terms of a conceptual. Distance more central members of a category are between the peripheral. members
In cognitive psychology, prototype theory describes how people categorize things. A prototype is considered a central member (or the central member) of a category. Prototype theory was developed as an alternative to the classical theory. Categories and concepts, according to this theory, are probabilistic rather than definitional in nature. They are radially structured, with some members more central than others.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. The prototype theory is a cognitive science theory developed by Eleanor Rosch in the early 1970s, with help from other experts in the field of cognitive psychology. In Rosch's theory, people categorize items and concepts based on a prototype or ideal representation of that category. Under prototype theory, experts believe that a person's first experience with a particular stimulus later defines the prototype associated with that category of stimuli. As experiences are gained and a person is more exposed to a particular category, the prototype evolves into a central representation for