1 Upfront planning, design and commissioning. 2  These cots account for a significant portion of the upfront costs of building a data center, expect 20 to 25% of the total upfront construction cost. 3  Base building, shell and property. 1 Base building, shell and property. 2  Forrester estimates that the cost of building the data center shell, including the physical security is $200 per square foot. ( 3 Note: Property cots are greatly variable by region.).
• Tier III data center (99.982% availability—about 1.6 hours of downtime per year): $900 per square foot. • Tier IV data center (99.995% availability—about 0.4 hours of downtime per year): $1,100 per square foot. These costs, again, are estimates, but they can provide a starting point at least. These estimated construction costs are as follows (from the Anixter white paper). • Tier I data center (99.671% availability—about 28.8 hours of downtime per year): $45
(c) 2014 Data Centre Realty Inc. All Rights Reserved. The logos and marks displayed on this site are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. Data Centre Realty (DCR) a Canadian based data center real estate development firm which provides data center design / build construction services.
We are organizing historical data and collecting data center design and construction cost information from organizations who have commissioned new data center space in recent years, or those organizations currently in the throes of a project. There is currently a distinct lack of comprehensive data center construction and commissioning cost data. There are plenty of numbers kicking around if you search the web, but they are estimates and averages.
In other words, instead of saying that average cost is $1200 per square foot, let’s see detail on real estate, architecture, construction, MEP, etc. Plus, let’s factor in redundancy level for fun. There is currently a distinct lack of comprehensive data center construction and commissioning cost data. There are plenty of numbers kicking around if you search the web, but they are estimates and averages. This type of data is not actionable for decision making
Actionable, fact-based insight into data center construction costs is the best way to avoid risks inherent in data center projects. We focus on factual data, along with insight into best practices, for thoughtful and informed decision making. There is currently a distinct lack of comprehensive data center construction and commissioning cost data. There are plenty of numbers kicking around if you search the web, but they are estimates and averages.
BACKGROUND One of the most troublesome parts of producing a budget for the design and relocation of a data center is budgeting for the construction of the computer room and supporting equipment yard portion of the project. 
1 Power. 2  The greatest expense of a data center is power, which accounts for 70% to 80% of the overall cost of running a data center facility. 3  Again, highly variable, Forrester estimates the average industrial power rate of $00677 per kWh in the United States. 4  Data center staffing. 1 Base building, shell and property. 2  Forrester estimates that the cost of building the data center shell, including the physical security is $200 per square foot. ( 3 Note: Property cots are greatly variable by region.).
The costs will vary depending on the level of resilience built into it, as more resillient data centers have more equipment to reduce the chance of failure. Bitterlin said kitting out a data center can cost £17,000 per KW for a Tier 2 site, £21,000 per KW for a Tier 3 site and £28,000 for a Tier 4 site. And on top of this, of course, you have to buy or rent the building. 
In a recent NORLINX facility project, the data center delivery cost, once complete, was in excess of $38K per Kilowatt. The Uptime Institute provides guidance that estimates data center construction costs at between $25K and $50K per Kilowatt of UPS capacity. This range is meant to accommodate the resiliency level of the data center.