Since Pasteur's work, several types of microorganisms (including yeast and some bacteria) have been used to break down pyruvic acid to produce ethanol in beer brewing and wine making. The other by-product of fermentation, carbon dioxide, is used in bread making and the production of carbonated beverages. Pasteur's finding showed that there are two types of fermentation: alcoholic and lactic acid. Alcoholic fermentation occurs by the action of yeast; lactic acid fermentation, by the action of bacteria.
Yeast in bread making. Yeast is used for the leavening of bread. Yeast uses the sugars and oxygen in dough to produce more yeast cells and carbon dioxide gas. This is called multiplication. The carbon dioxide makes the dough rise which gives the bread a light and spongy texture. Yeast also works on the gluten network. Instead it ferments carbohydrates (sugars) to produce carbon dioxide and alcohol which gives bread it's texture, colour and aroma. There are several types of yeasts but the important ones for the baking industry are those belonging to the genus Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which means sugar eating yeast.
Baker's yeast is of the species Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which is the same species (but a different strain) commonly used in alcoholic fermentation, which is called brewer's yeast. Baker's yeast is also a single-cell microorganism found on and around the human body. Gradation marks are 1 µm apart. Baker's yeast is the common name for the strains of yeast commonly used as a leavening agent in baking bread and bakery products, where it converts the fermentable sugars present in the dough into carbon dioxide and ethanol.
Yeasts are eucaryotic single celled fungi which reproduce by budding or fission. In brewing, Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the Genus and Species that is of the most significance. 
How to Grow Yeast. Two Methods: Growing Yeast from a Bread Starter Growing Brewer's Yeast Cultures. Yeast is a single-celled organism vital to most bakers and brewers all over the world, due to its ability to turn sugars into carbon dioxide and alcohol. You can create your own yeast-filled bread starter, or sourdough starter, with nothing more than flour, water, and regular maintenance. 
Yeasts do not form a single taxonomic or phylogenetic grouping. The term yeast is often taken as a synonym for Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but the phylogenetic diversity of yeasts is shown by their placement in two separate phyla: the Ascomycota and the Basidiomycota. The budding yeasts (true yeasts) are classified in the order Saccharomycetales. The word yeast comes from Old English gist, gyst, and from the Indo-European root yes- , meaning boil, foam, or bubble'. Yeast microbes are probably one of the earliest domesticated organisms.
MORE ABOUT YEAST Yeast are simple, unicellular fungi. The most common forms of yeast -- baker's and brewer's yeast -- are strains of the species Saccaromyces cerevisiae. Yeast is often taken as a vitamin supplement because it is 50 percent protein and is a rich source of B vitamins, niacin, and folic acid.
By fermentation, the yeast species Saccharomyces cerevisiae converts carbohydrates to carbon dioxide and alcohols – for thousands of years the carbon dioxide has been used in baking and the alcohol in alcoholic beverages. The word yeast comes from Old English gist, gyst, and from the Indo-European root yes- , meaning boil, foam, or bubble'. Yeast microbes are probably one of the earliest domesticated organisms.
Yeast. This basic ingredient is a living organism that eats and “breathes” just as we do. It’s this breathing (actually, the process of fermentation) that gives off carbon dioxide gas, which is in turn trapped by the gluten in the flour, causing bread to rise. 