Abnormal enlargement or bulging of the aorta, the largest blood vessel of the body, is not an unusual condition. Medical professionals refer to this as aneurysm of the great vessel, or aortic aneurysm. The enlargement usually affects only a small part of the vessel, so bulge is a more accurate description. Almost every artery in the body branches off of the aorta. These arteries supply blood to the brain, other vital organs (liver, stomach, small and large bowel, spinal cord) and nerves, bones, muscles, and cells that allow the body to function. 1  Damage to the aorta can threaten vital functions.
The aorta is the largest artery in the body. Arteries are vessels that carry blood away from the heart. The aorta arises from the left ventricle of the heart, forms an arch, then extends down to the abdomen, where it branches off into two smaller arteries. The aorta carries and distributes oxygen rich blood to all arteries
The aorta (/eɪˈɔrtə/) is the main artery in the human body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and extending down to the abdomen, where it splits into two smaller arteries (the common iliac arteries). The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body through the systemic circulation. 
Ruptured aneurysms require emergency surgery to stop the bleeding. The aorta has many layers. Aortic dissection is a tear that develops in the inner layer of the aorta, causing blood to flow between the layers. The layers then separate, interrupting the blood flow and possibly causing the arterial wall to burst.
The arch of the aorta is the second major anatomical region of the aorta; it curves above the heart between the ascending and descending aorta. All of the blood delivered from the heart to the systemic tissues of the body passes through the aorta, making it the largest artery in the human body. As the aorta extends from the heart, it begins as the ascending aorta before turning 180 degrees towards the body’s left side in the aortic arch. From the arch the aorta passes posterior to the heart and descends through the thorax and abdomen as the descending aorta....
All rights reserved. The aorta is the largest artery in the body. The aorta begins at the top of the left ventricle, the heart's muscular pumping chamber. The heart pumps blood from the left ventricle into the aorta through the aortic valve. Three leaflets on the aortic valve open and close with each heartbeat to allow one-way flow of blood. The aorta is a tube about a foot long and just over an inch in diameter. The aorta is divided into four sections:
Anatomy of the Aorta. The aorta stems from the heart, arches upward, and then extends down behind the heart and through the chest (thorax) and the abdomen areas. The aorta then branches out and becomes the iliac arteries, which provide blood to the pelvis and legs. By Healthwise Staff.
Aorta, arising from the left ventricle, ascending, arching, then descending through the thorax to the abdomen, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. abdominal aorta the distal part of the descending aorta, below the diaphragm; it is continuous with the thoracic aorta. Consists of four parts: the ascending aorta, the arch of the aorta, the thoracic portion of the descending aorta, and the abdominal portion of the descending aorta. Gives rise to the common carotid and subclavian arteries on the left side and to the brachiocephalic artery on the right side.
aorta. the great artery arising from the left ventricle, being the main trunk from which the systemic arterial system proceeds. It has four divisions: the ascending aorta, the aortic arch, the thoracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta. See Appendix of Arteries and see circulatory system. Consists of four parts: the ascending aorta, the arch of the aorta, the thoracic portion of the descending aorta, and the abdominal portion of the descending aorta. Gives rise to the common carotid and subclavian arteries on the left side and to the brachiocephalic artery on the right side.
Aorta: The largest artery in the body, the aorta arises from the left ventricle of the heart, goes up (ascends) a little ways, bends over (arches), then goes down (descends) through the chest and through the abdomen to where ends by dividing into two arteries called the common iliac arteries that go to the legs. Anatomically, the aorta is traditionally divided into the ascending aorta, the aortic arch, and the descending aorta. The descending aorta is, in turn, subdivided into the thoracic aorta (that descends within the chest) and the abdominal aorta (that descends within the belly).