Punctuated equilibrium (also called punctuated equilibria) is a theory in evolutionary biology which proposes that once species appear in the fossil record they will become stable, showing little net evolutionary change for most of their geological history. This state is called stasis. 
Natural selection is the result of violation of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, a state of stability in a population where allele frequencies do not change. A population stays in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium when five assumptions (or prerequisites) are maintained: 
Weegy: Biochemistry, sometimes called biological chemistry, is the study of chemical processes in living organisms, including, but not limited to, living matter. Biochemistry governs all living organisms and living processes. 
Why do you think species remain in a stage of stasis? A. A stable ecological niche leads to absence of selection pressure, which in turn causes species to remain unmodified or in stasis. B. An unstable ecological niche leads to various selection pressures, which in turn causes the species to remain in a stage of stasis. C. A stable ecological niche leads to various selection pressures, which in turn causes species to remain unmodified or in stasis. Killer_Sweetness97.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A species remains in the stage of stasis because it has fully adapted to its environment and is able to thrive successfully without further evolutionary changes. The species has the necessary traits in order to survive. 
An unstable ecological niche leads to various selection pressures, which in turn causes the species to remain in a stage of stasis. c. A stable ecological niche leads to various selection pressures, which in turn causes species to remain unmodified or in stasis. This Question is Closed. Why do you think species remain in a stage of stasis? a. A stable ecological niche leads to absence of selection pressure, which in turn causes species to remain unmodified or in stasis. b.
A species remains in the stage of stasis because it has fully  adapted to its environment and is able to thrive successfully  without further evolutionary changes. The speci … es has the necessary  traits in order to survive. It is the condition of changelessness and/or motionlessness.   Stasis can mean a lot of things actually.   My favorite definition is … the Science Fiction one. Stasis means a process of putting your body into a state of suspended animation... basically a puse button for your life.