Generally, the levels of AST ranges from 5 to 43 or 45 units per liter and of ALT from 7 to 56 or 60 units per liter. The upper level tends to be lower in females. A. The serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT), now referred to as aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (SGPT), called alanine aminotransferase (ALT) are enzymes whose levels are tested to detect liver damage from any cause. They also rise in muscle and heart disease. 
191 Followers. A. The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. This answer should not be considered medical advice... 
Normal Levels. The normal range for SGOT in the blood for an adult is 6- 34 IU/L for women and 8/40 IU/L for men. Higher levels than this indicate that something is wrong somewhere, frequently in the liver. In addition to the liver, SGOT is also found in the heart, kidneys, skeletal muscles, and brain. The normal range for SGOT in the blood for an adult is 6- 34 IU/L for women and 8/40 IU/L for men.
1 Read 68 Stories. 2  Share Your Story. 3  The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 4  The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is about 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. 1 The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 2
The normal levels of SGOT is in between 5 and 40 units per liter of serum and the normal levels of SGPT in between 7 and 56 units per liter of serum. 
The normal range for SGPT levels is 10 to 40 international units per liter. 1  Values are significantly higher (greater than 15 times the upper limit of normal) in cases of hepatitis, and is moderately higher (5-15 times the ULN) in cases of severe burns, cirrhosis, obstructive jaundice, and liver tumors. It is present in different tissues such as the liver, skeletal muscles and heart, but is found with the highest concentration in the liver. When the liver is damaged, SGPT leaks out of the cells and into your blood. Normal SGPT level ranges from 7 to 56 units per litre of blood.
What Are Normal Levels of AST and ALT? The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum.