Origin of the name Cassandra: Derived from the Greek Kassandra, the mythological daughter of Priam and Hecuba who had the power of prophesy. Var: Casaundra, Kasandra, Kassandra, Kasaundra. Short: Cass, Kass, Sandra, Saundra. Pet: Cassi, Cassie, Cassy, Kassi, Kassie, Sandi, Sandie, Sandy. 
Look up Cassandra in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Cassandra is a Greek given name. In Greek mythology, Cassandra was the daughter of King Priam and Queen Hecuba of Troy; she had the gift of prophecy but the curse that her prophecies would never be believed.
English Meaning: The name Cassandra is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cassandra is: Cassandra was a Trojan prophetess, daughter of King Priam. This name became popular in medieval Britain, and fashionable in the USA in the mid-2Oth century. Greek Meaning: The name Cassandra is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Cassandra is: Unheeded prophetess. Cassandra was a Trojan prophetess, daughter of King Priam. In Homer's 'The Iliad' Cassandra's prediction of the fall of Troy was unheeded.
[ 3 syll. cas-san-dra, ca-ssand-ra ] The baby girl name Cassandra is pronounced as Kah-S AE N-DRah (English) or Kah-S AE N-DRah or Kah-S AH N-DRah †. Cassandra is used mostly in the English and German languages, and it is of Old Greek origin. The name is of the meaning shining upon man; protrude, man. Cassandra was a Trojan princess and daughter of King Priam in Greek mythology and in Homer 's Iliad; her prediction of the fall of Troy was unheeded, due to a curse placed upon her by Apollo after she rejected his advances. She was later captured as a concubine of Agamemnon and eventually murdered by his jealous wife.
It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Cassandra is shining upon man. Perhaps a version of Alexander, which originally was a feminine name, a byname for Hera, queen of the Olympian gods. Literary: Cassandra was a Trojan princess blessed with the gift of prophecy in Homer's Iliad. She foretold the fall of Troy but was unheeded. The name was occasionally used from the Middle Ages until the 18th century. Kreatif forms: Carsandra, Cassanda.
Other origins for the name Cassandra include-English, Greek, Greek.The name Cassandra is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Cassandra was a Trojan prophetess, daughter of King Priam. This name became popular in medieval Britain, and fashionable in the USA in the mid-2Oth century. Meaning of Cassandra. English name. In English, the name Cassandra means-Cassandra was a Trojan prophetess, daughter of King Priam. This name became popular in medieval Britain, and fashionable in the USA in the mid-2Oth century..
Definition of CASSANDRA. 1. : a daughter of Priam endowed with the gift of prophecy but fated never to be believed. 2. : one that predicts misfortune or disaster. ADVERTISEMENT. 