It takes a few weeks to a month or more to recover physically from a miscarriage. Your recovery will depend on how far along you were into the pregnancy. Some women experience the following physical effects: 1  Vaginal bleeding, similar to a menstrual period, may last up to a week after a miscarriage. 2  Light bleeding, or spotting. 3  Depending on your menstrual cycle, normal periods should resume in 3-6 weeks.
The normal physical symptoms after miscarriage also include lower back pain and nausea. The woman may also experience abdominal cramping for a while after the miscarriage as the uterus works on regaining its normal size and structure.
Surviving a pregnancy loss can be very difficult. After a miscarriage you may experience a roller coaster of emotions, as well as physical symptoms, as your body recovers.
Physical Symptoms after a miscarriage. Hi everyone I had a miscarriage recently I was a very early pregnancy I didn't even know for sure if I was pregnant. I went to the doctors as I have been having this weird achey feeling over my pelvis and I had a weird bleed she said I had been pregnant but not anymore.
1 Although bleeding is often the first sign of a miscarriage, first-trimester bleeding may also occur with a normal pregnancy. 2  But bleeding with pain is a sign that miscarriage is more likely. 3  Pain. 4  You may have pelvic cramps, belly pain, or a persistent, dull ache in your lower back.
In rare cases, women miscarry after diagnostic tests, such as chorionic villus sampling (CVS) or amniocentesis. Most of the time, a specific cause for miscarriage is not identified. Many women learn about a miscarriage at a routine prenatal visit before experiencing any physical symptoms.
Symptoms of a miscarriage include: 1  Vaginal bleeding that may be light or heavy, constant or irregular. 2  Although bleeding is often the first sign of a miscarriage, first-trimester bleeding may also occur with a normal pregnancy. 3  But bleeding with pain is a sign that miscarriage is more likely.