The rate of filtration from the glomerulus to the Bowman's capsule is determined (like in systemic capillaries) by the Starling equation 1  : GFR is the glomerular filtration rate. 2  K f is the filtration coefficient – a proportionality constant. 3  P gc is the glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure. Blood enters the capillaries of the glomerulus by a single arteriole called an afferent arteriole and leaves by an efferent arteriole. The capillaries are lined by a layer of cells (an endothelium) that has a unique structure, allowing blood components to be filtered, and resulting ultimately in the formation of urine.
You should know that the blood running through your glomerular capillaries, as well as the filtrate in Bowman's space, has two main forces. One of these forces is called hydrostatic pressure. In our case, this is the pressure exerted by fluid on the capillary walls of the glomerulus or the walls of the Bowman's capsule. The hydrostatic pressure in the glomerular capillaries is essentially the blood pressure in the glomerulus. As our blood pressure in the glomerulus goes up, hydrostatic pressure in the glomerulus goes up as well. Basically, whereas higher hydrostatic pressure in the glomerulus favors an increased glomerular filtration rate, higher hydrostatic pressure in the Bowman's capsule favors a decreased glomerular filtration rate.
In practice, when you have vasoconstriction of the glomerular capillaries and subsequently an increase in blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate increases. The afferent arteriole is in red, and the efferent arteriole in blue. The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) depends on the pressure difference between the two, which affects the hydrostatic pressure at the glomerulus.
Contraction or relaxation of the artery can affect the pressure of capillaries in the glomerulus, and consequently the filtration of blood. Sympathetic nervous system action as well as hormones can also impact glomerular filtration rate by modulating afferent arteriole diameter. Blood enters the capillaries of the glomerulus by a single arteriole called an afferent arteriole and leaves by an efferent arteriole. The capillaries are lined by a layer of cells (an endothelium) that has a unique structure, allowing blood components to be filtered, and resulting ultimately in the formation of urine.
Hydrostatic Pressure. The hydrostatic pressure is much higher in the glomerulus than in ordinary capillaries. This high hydrostatic pressure enables about 20% of the plasma that flows through the glomerulus to be filtered into the Bowman's capsule. This filtrate is called the “filtration fraction”. 
In contrast, constriction of the efferent arteriole decreases blood flow out of the glomerulus, and this increases the glomerular hydrostatic pressure and leads to an increase in GFR. Both the afferent and efferent arterioles are regulated through hormones (and drugs that inhibit the hormones). The afferent arteriole is in red, and the efferent arteriole in blue. The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) depends on the pressure difference between the two, which affects the hydrostatic pressure at the glomerulus.
All else equal, as the blood pressure increases, the glomerular filtration rate increases, and hence, the amount of filtrate, including water and solutes, entering the Bowman's capsule increases as well. Likewise, as glomerular hydrostatic pressure decreases, the glomerular filtration rate decreases as well. Basically, whereas higher hydrostatic pressure in the glomerulus favors an increased glomerular filtration rate, higher hydrostatic pressure in the Bowman's capsule favors a decreased glomerular filtration rate.
Constriction of the afferent arteriole decreases the blood flow into the glomerulus and thus the glomerular hydrostatic pressure, which leads to a decrease in GFR. The afferent arteriole is in red, and the efferent arteriole in blue. The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) depends on the pressure difference between the two, which affects the hydrostatic pressure at the glomerulus.
The figure illustrates the forces that determine the filtration rate. The pressure in the glomerular capillaries, PGC, favors filtration. Opposing filtration is the osmotic pressure due to the blood proteins (πGC) and the hydrostatic pressure in Bowman's space (PBS). The net glomerular filtration pressure is the sum of these forces. The pressure in the glomerular capillaries (P GC) is high because of the resistance to flow provided by the __________. 2. A blockage in urine outflow (perhaps due to nephrolithiasis) causes an increase in the pressure in Bowman s space.
1. The pressure in the glomerular capillaries (P GC) is high because of the resistance to flow provided by the __________. 2. A blockage in urine outflow (perhaps due to nephrolithiasis) causes an increase in the pressure in Bowman s space.