Social Processes: Methodology · Types of test. In psychometric psychology, fluid and crystallized intelligence (abbreviated gF and gC, respectively) are factors of general intelligence identified by Raymond Cattell (1971). Fluid intelligence is the ability to find meaning in confusion and solve new problems
Lesson Summary. In summary, the psychologist Cattell suggested two different forms of intelligence. Fluid intelligence is defined as the ability to solve new problems, use logic in new situations, and identify patterns. In contrast, crystallized intelligence is defined as the ability to use learned knowledge and experience. Fluid vs. Crystallized. All the way back in 1963, a psychologist named Raymond Cattell noticed that there are two distinct forms of intelligence that he wanted to identify and study. The first type is what he called fluid
As mentioned, fluid intelligence represents the ability to think on your feet, think outside the box, and develop creative approaches in new situations. As an example of fluid intelligence in action, think of your favorite modern luxury. Maybe it's the airplane or possibly something newer like Facebook. Fluid intelligence refers to the ability to develop solutions to problems using new approaches and thinking critically. Having an open mind and high level of awareness are key aspects of fluid intelligence abilities.
Fluid and crystallized intelligence are thus correlated with each other, and most IQ tests attempt to measure both varieties. For example, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) measures fluid intelligence on the performance scale and crystallized intelligence on the verbal scale. Standardized IQ tests such as those used in psychoeducational assessment also include tests of fluid intelligence. In the Woodcock-Johnson Tests of Cognitive Abilities, Gf is assessed by two tests: Concept Formation (Test 5) in the Standard Battery and Analysis Synthesis (Test 15) in the Extended Battery.
the name of the form of intelligence that comprises all of our fluid abilities. See fluid crystallised intelligence theory. FLUID INTELLIGENCE: Fluid intelligence comprises our fluid abilities.. No related posts. 
Raymond Cattell first coined the terms fluid intelligence and crystallized intelligence as a means of distinguishing between the varieties of intelligence types. Fluid intelligence refers to the ability to develop solutions to problems using new approaches and thinking critically. Having an open mind and high level of awareness are key aspects of fluid intelligence abilities.
Instructor: Chris Clause. In this lesson, you will learn to define fluid intelligence and give examples of its use in everyday situations. Following the lesson, you will have a chance to test your new knowledge with a short quiz. Fluid intelligence refers to the ability to develop solutions to problems using new approaches and thinking critically. Having an open mind and high level of awareness are key aspects of fluid intelligence abilities.
Fluid intelligence is the capacity to think logically and solve problems in novel situations, independent of acquired knowledge. Fluid intelligence involves the ability to identify patterns and relationships that underpin novel problems and to extrapolate these findings using logic. Hampshire wanted to teach us fluid intelligence and emphasized the importance of every individual filtering crystallized information through his or her very unique lens and connecting the dots in new and original ways. Fluid intelligence is directly linked to creativity and innovation.
According to psychologist Raymond Cattell, who developed the concept in the 1980s to explain intelligence, crystallized intelligence comprises the skills and knowledge acquired through education and acculturation. Cattell believed that crystallized intelligence interacts with fluid intelligence. Many psychologists believe that crystallized intelligence increases with age, as people learn new skills and facts; however, researchers disagree about the precise relation between crystallized intelligence and age.
Within the corporate environment, fluid intelligence is a predictor of a person's capacity to work well in environments characterised by complexity, uncertainty, and ambiguity. The Cognitive Process Profile (CPP) measures a person's fluid intelligence and cognitive processes. Standardized IQ tests such as those used in psychoeducational assessment also include tests of fluid intelligence. In the Woodcock-Johnson Tests of Cognitive Abilities, Gf is assessed by two tests: Concept Formation (Test 5) in the Standard Battery and Analysis Synthesis (Test 15) in the Extended Battery.