Sedimentation Rate (Sed Rate). The sedimentation rate (sed rate) blood test measures how quickly red blood cells (erythrocytes) settle in a test tube in one hour. The more red cells that fall to the bottom of the test tube in one hour, the higher the sed rate. Test Overview. The sedimentation rate (sed rate) blood test measures how quickly red blood cells (erythrocytes) settle in a test tube in one hour.
The normal sedimentation rate (Westergren method) for males is 0-15 millimeters per hour, females is 0-20 millimeters per hour. The sedimentation rate may normally be slightly higher in the elderly. Medically reviewed by a Board Certified Family Practice Physician. The sedimentation rate is also called the erythrocyte sedimentation rate because it is a measure of the red blood cells (erythrocytes) sedimenting in a tube over a given period of time.
Test Overview. The sedimentation rate (sed rate) blood test measures how quickly red blood cells (erythrocytes) settle in a test tube in one hour. The more red cells that fall to the bottom of the test tube in one hour, the higher the sed rate. When inflammation is present in the body, certain proteins cause red blood cells to stick together and fall more quickly than normal to the bottom of the tube.
Normal Sedimentation Rates. The normal sedimentation rate (Westergren method) for males is 0-15 millimeters per hour, for females it is 0-20 millimeters per hour. The sedimentation rate can be slightly elevated in the elderly. Falsely low sedimentation rates can occur in the blood from persons with leukemia or polycythemia rubra vera. 
The sedimentation rate is simply how far the top of the RBC layer has fallen (in millimeters) in one hour. The sedimentation rate increases with more inflammation. The normal sedimentation rate (Westergren method) for males is 0-15 millimeters per hour, and for females is 0-20 millimeters per hour. 
The sedimentation rate (sed rate) blood test measures how quickly red blood cells (erythrocytes) settle in a test tube in one hour. The more red cells that fall to the bottom of the test tube in one hour, the higher the sed rate. When inflammation is present in the body, certain proteins cause red blood cells to stick together and fall more quickly than normal to the bottom of the tube.
The sedimentation rate (sed rate) blood test measures how quickly red blood cells (erythrocytes) settle in a test tube. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. High sedimentation rates may be caused by: 1  Autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Cancer, such as lymphoma or multiple myeloma. 3  Chronic kidney disease. 4  Infection, such as pneumonia, pelvic inflammatory disease, or appendicitis.