Vitamin B12 in the vegetarian diet. Lacto-ovo-vegetarians will have a reliable source of vitamin B 12 in their diet, provided they consume adequate amounts of dairy products and eggs, although their intake is likely to be lower than in meat eaters. As vitamin B 12 is produced by bacteria in the large intestines of animals, plant-based foods are generally not a source of vitamin B 12. It is therefore a nutrient of concern for vegetarians and particularly for vegans who choose an entirely plant-based diet.
Food. Vitamin B12 is naturally found in animal products, including fish, meat, poultry, eggs, milk, and milk products. Vitamin B12 is generally not present in plant foods, but fortified breakfast cereals are a readily available source of vitamin B12 with high bioavailability for vegetarians [ 5, 13-15 ]. Some nutritional yeast products also contain vitamin B12.
The only reliable vegan sources of B12 are foods fortified with B12 (including some plant milks, some soy products and some breakfast cereals) and B12 supplements. Vitamin B12, whether in supplements, fortified foods, or animal products, comes from micro-organisms. Most vegans consume enough B12 to avoid anemia and nervous system damage, but many do not get enough to minimize potential risk of heart disease or pregnancy complications. 1 Eat fortified foods two or three times a day to get at least three micrograms (mcg or µg) of B12 a day or. 2  Take one B12 supplement daily providing at least 10 micrograms or. 3  Take a weekly B12 supplement providing at least 2000 micrograms.
Vitamin B12, also known as cyanocobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin that is part of the B vitamin family. B vitamins help support adrenal function, help calm and maintain a healthy nervous system, and are necessary for key metabolic processes. People over 50 years of age should consume vitamin B12-fortified foods, or take a vitamin B12 supplement - 25-100 mcg per day has been used to maintain vitamin B12 levels in older people.
A 3-ounce hamburger contains the daily recommended amount of vitamin B-12. Vitamin B-12 is only found in animal products. Good sources include oysters, crab, fish, pork, poultry, eggs, milk, yogurt, and cottage cheese. 
Consume 25 mcg of vitamin B12 as a supplement. Even though food contains B12, a substance secreted by the stomach -- active intrinsic factor -- must be present if B12 from food is to be absorbed. Unfortunately, production of this factor decreases with age. Crystalline B12 in supplements does not require this intrinsic factor for absorption. Therefore, you should take B12 as a supplement, and you won't be reliant on the presence of intrinsic factor.
It shouldn't be difficult for vegetarians, including vegans, to get the Vit B12 RDA (Recommended Daily Allowance) for adults. Besides animal products, many fortified vegan foods and supplements include B12. Separate B12 supplements are inexpensive and effective. 
Supplements of vitamin B12 are often recommended for people who consume few animal products in their diet (such as vegetarians or vegans), because the vitamin is found naturally only in foods from animal sources, including meat, poultry, fish, eggs and dairy products. Unfortunately, production of this factor decreases with age. Crystalline B12 in supplements does not require this intrinsic factor for absorption. Therefore, you should take B12 as a supplement, and you won't be reliant on the presence of intrinsic factor.
Q. I currently follow a strict vegetarian diet and consume no animal products at all. Since vitamin B12 is missing from the vegan diet, I wonder how many micrograms of it I should take. I’ve seen B12 pills of up to 1500 micrograms each in my food co-op, but the daily requirement is just 3 micrograms. A. Vitamin B12 deficiency is far more common than most people realize. Vegans (who eat no eggs, dairy or other animal products) are frequently lacking in this essential nutrient. Older people and those who take powerful acid-suppressing drugs may also be low.