Hula Pie. Okay, its time you know about the Kimo’s Original Hula Pie®. Billed as “this is what the sailors swam ashore for in Lahaina” this dessert that was developed at Kimo’s long ago and has been pleasing even the heartiest of dessert eaters ever since. Hula Pie is made with Kimo’s favorite macadamia nut ice cream piled high on a chocolate cookie crust and topped with chocolate fudge, whipped cream, and more macadamia nuts. It is sized for sharing, but rarely goes unfinished! Come on in and enjoy a slice.
Kimo is an uncommonly occurring first name for men and an equally uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of Kimo and corresponding names. The more fashionable boy names in this list are Diego (#129) , Jacob (#4) , Jaime (#468) , Jameson (#159) and Jamison (#440) , and there is also a rekindling in birth name usage for Diego and Jacob. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Lahaina, HI 96761. On the water in the heart of historic Lahaina Town, Kimo’s offers a casual, quintessentially Maui dining experience. This landmark restaurant is renowned for its fresh Hawaiian fish, prime rib, prime steaks and Original Hula Pie. Kimo’s has been regarded as a Maui “must do” for over 35 years. 
Kimo has 32 related forms via James, Jim: Diego ▲ , Diogo, Giacomo, Hamish, Iago, Jacob ▲ , Jacques ▼ , Jago, Jagu, Jaime ▲ , Jaimey, Jaimie, Jame, Jameson ▲ , Jamey ▼ , Jamie ▼ , Jamison ▲ , Jascha, Jayme, Jaymes, Jaymie, Jem, Jemmy, Jim ▼ , Jimbo, Jimi, Jimmee, Jimmey, Jimmie ▼ , Jimmy ▲ , Jimson and Seamus. The more fashionable boy names in this list are Diego (#129) , Jacob (#4) , Jaime (#468) , Jameson (#159) and Jamison (#440) , and there is also a rekindling in birth name usage for Diego and Jacob. (2014 Birth Statistics).
First and or middle names are often traditional ancient Hawaiian names. Hawaiian names are popular amongst both Hawaiian and non-Hawaiian Americans. The 1860 Act to Regulate Names forced Hawaiians to take their father's given name as their surnames and to give all new children Christian given names. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kimo in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kimo in Nautical Flags page.
KILIKINA f Hawaiian. Hawaiian form of CHRISTINA. KIMO m Hawaiian. Hawaiian form of JAMES. KOA m Hawaiian. Means warrior, koa tree in Hawaiian. KONANI m & f Hawaiian. Means bright in Hawaiian. LANI f Hawaiian. Means sky, heaven, royal, majesty in Hawaiian. Means pearl lei or pearl child from Hawaiian lei flowers, lei, child and momi pearl. MAILE f Hawaiian. From the name of a type of vine that grows in Hawaii and is used in making leis.
Kimo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ki-mo. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 8433 in baby name popularity for boys with 9 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Kimo Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kimo has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kimo to other names. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kimo in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kimo in Nautical Flags page.
The word Hawaii is most properly spelled Hawai'i, where the apostrophe (called an 'okina in the Hawaiian language) between the final two i's stands for the glottal stop, w … hich is a consonant in Hawaiian. Hawaiian as a language is descended from Common Polynesian, spoken about 2000-1500 years ago. The term Hawai'i comes from a Common Polynesian root Havaiki, meaning simply homeland.. It was also sometimes used to refer to the land of the dead or the afterlife in Polynesian religion and mythology. 
Kimo Leopoldo (born 4 January 1968), or simply Kimo, is a retired American mixed martial artist. He made his MMA debut at UFC 3 in 1994 losing to Royce Gracie by submission. He was credited with a black belt in Taekwondo in his Ultimate Fighting Championship debut at UFC 3. Kimo is well known for his Christian beliefs: he sports many religious tattoos, and entered the arena at UFC 3 carrying a large cross on his back.