Yes. In 1981, the Great Barrier Reef gained international recognition through its inscription on the World Heritage List. The Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area is the wor … ld's largest and is one of only a few World Heritage Areas that satisfy all four natural World Heritage Criteria. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The reason for it being a world heritage site is because it holds so many beautiful features like fish, coral and mammals. The Great Barrier Reef is UNESCO World Heritage listed because it is the largest coral reef in the world. By having World Heritage designation, the Great Barrier Reef is acknowledged to be of value to all people and is to be preserved
UNESCO first threatened to list the Great Barrier Reef as a World Heritage site in danger in a highly anticipated report released in June 2012. The report into the management of the reef said the Federal Government needed to implement a strategic assessment before considering future developments around the reef. 
The Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area is the largest World Heritage Area in the world and one of just a few that meet all four natural World Heritage criteria: 1  An example of a major stage in the earth's evolutionary history. World Heritage. Natural and cultural properties considered to be of 'outstanding universal value' and which meet the strict criteria of the World Heritage Convention may be entered on the list compiled by the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO.
A Natural Wonder. The Great Barrier Reef is one of the seven wonders of the natural world, and pulling away from it, and viewing it from a greater distance, you can understand why. It is larger than the Great Wall of China and the only living thing on earth visible from space. Welcome to the Great Barrier Reef. One of Australia's most remarkable natural gifts, the Great Barrier Reef is blessed with the breathtaking beauty of the world's largest coral reef.
Image courtesy of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. The Great Barrier Reef is the only living organic collective visible from Earth's orbit. The Great Barrier Reef, off the east coast of Australia, is one of the wonders of the natural world-it is the world's largest coral reef ecosystem. It was declared a World Heritage area in 1981 and added to the National Heritage List in 2007
The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef system composed of over 2,900 individual reefs and 900 islands stretching for over 2,300 kilometres (1,400 mi) over an area of approximately 344,400 square kilometres (133,000 sq mi). The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland, Australia. The Great Barrier Reef can be seen from outer space and is the world's biggest single structure made by living organisms. This reef structure is composed of and built by billions of tiny organisms, known as coral polyps. It supports a wide diversity of life and was selected as a World Heritage Site in 1981
Great Barrier Reef (UNESCO/TBS). The Great Barrier Reef is a site of remarkable variety and beauty on the north-east coast of Australia. It contains the world’s largest collection of coral reefs, with 400 types of coral, 1,500 species of fish and 4,000 types of mollusc. 
The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest reef system, composed of roughly 3,000 individual reefs and 900 islands that stretch for 2,600 kilometres (1,616 mi) and cover an area of approximately 344,400 square kilometres (133,000 sq mi). 
Sprawling off the east coast of Queensland, Australia, the Great Barrier Reef is not a single reef but a group of more than 2,800 distinct entities. It stretches over 1,250 miles (2,000 kilometers) north to south and covers some 135,000 square miles (350,000 square kilometers) in total. 