Most firms practice the selling concept when they have overcapacity. Their aim is to sell what they make rather than make what the market wants. The Marketing Concept. This is a business philosophy that challenges the above three business orientations. The Marketing Concept focuses on the needs of the buyer. 2. The Sales Concept is preoccupied with the seller s need to convert his/her product into cash. The Marketing Concept is preoccupied with the idea of satisfying the needs of the customer by means of the product as a solution to the customer s problem (needs).
An oil refinery or petroleum refinery is an industrial process plant where crude oil is processed and refined into more useful products such as petroleum naphtha, gasoline, diesel fuel, asphalt base, heating oil, kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas. Following the desalter, the crude oil is further heated by exchanging heat with some of the hot, distilled fractions and other streams. It is then heated in a fuel-fired furnace (fired heater) to a temperature of about 398 °C and routed into the bottom of the distillation unit.
The Marketing Concept represents the major change in today s company orientation that provides the foundation to achieve competitive advantage. This philosophy is the foundation of consultative selling. The Marketing Concept has evolved into a fifth and more refined company orientation: The Societal Marketing Concept. This concept is more theoretical and will undoubtedly influence future forms of marketing and selling approaches. The Marketing Concept focuses on the needs of the buyer. 2. The Sales Concept is preoccupied with the seller s need to convert his/her product into cash. The Marketing Concept is preoccupied with the idea of satisfying the needs of the customer by means of the product as a solution to the customer s problem (needs).
If we include indirect users of petroleum products, the number of consumers runs into the billions. Refined product markets are different from crude oil markets (see Petroleum Online module titled, “ Marketing & Trading of Crude Oil ”) in a number of ways. You will also learn the practical aspects of product marketing through interviews with the senior executives of two major products marketing and distribution companies in the Northeast region of the United States.
You've searched your soul. Now it's time to refine your business concept. One of the best ways to do that is to be able to present your business plan in 30 seconds or less — a pitch short enough to deliver to a prospect during an elevator ride.
The crude oil feedstock has typically been processed by an oil production plant. There is usually an oil depot (tank farm) at or near an oil refinery for the storage of incoming crude oil feedstock as well as bulk liquid products. Following the desalter, the crude oil is further heated by exchanging heat with some of the hot, distilled fractions and other streams. It is then heated in a fuel-fired furnace (fired heater) to a temperature of about 398 °C and routed into the bottom of the distillation unit.
Refined Concepts is a multimedia design and marketing boutique with a focus on using cutting edge business solutions to help our clients stand out. We look forward to helping you with your next project. 
All of the fractions are processed further in other refining units. Raw or unprocessed crude oil is not generally useful in industrial applications, although light, sweet (low viscosity, low sulfur) crude oil has been used directly as a burner fuel to produce steam for the propulsion of seagoing vessels. Following the desalter, the crude oil is further heated by exchanging heat with some of the hot, distilled fractions and other streams. It is then heated in a fuel-fired furnace (fired heater) to a temperature of about 398 °C and routed into the bottom of the distillation unit.
DEFINITION of 'Sale'. 1) In general, a transaction between two parties where the buyer receives goods (tangible or intangible), services and/or assets in exchange for money. 2) An agreement between a buyer and seller on the price of a security. Next Up.