There are many symbols that represent strength in the tattoo world.  Some people get the word strength tattooed, some get tarot cards  that represent strength. There are als … o tribal patterns that  represent strength as well as ethnic symbols. EAGLE-A symbol of strength, an eagle shown perched in a pine- … tree is a suitable gift for an older man, wishing him strength of an Eagle and longevity of a pine-tree. An eagle on a rock in the sea symbolizes-Hero who fights a lone battle.
Adinkra Symbols-Adinkra is visual symbols used in Ghana West Africa. The symbols that represent the strength and courage are Okodee Mmowere-represents an eagle, Dwennimmen – represents a ram, and Akofena-show up in form of crossed swords. They have many other symbols that depict different forms and the complete idea can be found at Adinkra index. These are also known as African Symbols.
Celtic Boar symbol for Strength To view the following symbols of strength see Ancient-Symbols.com at http://www.ancient-symbols.com/strength_... 1. Ancient African Symbol (called Tabono the 'paddles'--which is a symbol that represents strength and perseverence. 2. Japanese Kanji Symbol for Strength 3. Chinese Symbol for Strength Another Chinese symbol of strength can be viewed at http://chinesecalligraphystore.com/catal..
You need strength and courage symbols to keep you motivated and at same time take pride in your ambitions and goals. You might want these symbols of strength and courage pasted on your desk, places where they clearly visible or even engraved as a tattoo in your body. The symbols that represent the strength and courage are Okodee Mmowere-represents an eagle, Dwennimmen – represents a ram, and Akofena-show up in form of crossed swords. They have many other symbols that depict different forms and the complete idea can be found at Adinkra index. These are also known as African Symbols.
Japanese Kanji Symbol for Strength Celtic Boar symbol for Strength Chinese Symbol for Strength Okodee Mmowere Symbol-This is the Akindra Symbol For Strength Chinese Symbol for Strength Griffin-The Griffin is a legendary creature with the body of a lion and the head and wings of an eagle. In celtic traditions the griffin symbol was synonimous with strength. Lion Symbol-The Lion is an important symbol for strength for buddhists. Scarabs often represented strength for Egyptians Japanese symbol for Strength The Jaguar is one of the most important symbols for Strength used by the Mayan civilization.
EAGLE-A symbol of strength, an eagle shown perched in a pine- … tree is a suitable gift for an older man, wishing him strength of an Eagle and longevity of a pine-tree. An eagle on a rock in the sea symbolizes-Hero who fights a lone battle. 
Strength Symbols Sometimes in this life you need strength symbols to encourage you and keep focused on your goals. You need strength and courage symbols to keep you motivated and at the same time take pride in your ambitions and the directions you want to take in life. In celtic traditions the griffin symbol was synonimous with strength. Lion Symbol-The Lion is an important symbol for strength for buddhists. Scarabs often represented strength for Egyptians Japanese symbol for Strength The Jaguar is one of the most important symbols for Strength used by the Mayan civilization.
Buddhism Symbols-Lion is the Buddhism Symbol for Strength whereas Precious Elephant is a symbol of strength of mind. Both represent a deep meaning in themselves and are used to represent many other forms eg-Buddhism teachings are known as Lion Roar which is itself represent the strength. The symbols that represent the strength and courage are Okodee Mmowere-represents an eagle, Dwennimmen – represents a ram, and Akofena-show up in form of crossed swords. They have many other symbols that depict different forms and the complete idea can be found at Adinkra index. These are also known as African Symbols.
Power Symbols Power can mean a lot of things. It may symbolize strength, control, influence, rule, supremacy, energy and a whole bunch of other words. With these many definitions to this word, many power symbols came into being as well. Here are some interesting symbols of power that every person should know about.