American wisteria (Wisteria frutescens) grows as a wildflower in your area, and can grow 6 feet to 45 feet. Flower racemes can grow 2 to 10 inches long. Chinese and Japanese wisteria, which have naturalized, are both listed as a threat in South Carolina because they are invasive. To rejuvenate overgrown wisteria, you can prune back hard (prune all shoots off the main trunk down to 3 or 5 buds, or instead, about 3 feet below where you want the mature length to be. Cut the main branches back to 4 to 6 feet. Remove all suckers).
Wisteria grows best if planted in the ground, and adapts well to a sturdy fence in full or part sun. But, it can be grown in a planter, too. Plant the wisteria vine in a container that’s 2 to 4 times the size of the one it originally came in. Water and feed regularly. The vine needs to be pruned to a manageable size when it starts growing and you may need to transplant it to a larger pot later in the year. To rejuvenate overgrown wisteria, you can prune back hard (prune all shoots off the main trunk down to 3 or 5 buds, or instead, about 3 feet below where you want the mature length to be. Cut the main branches back to 4 to 6 feet. Remove all suckers).
How to Propagate Wisteria Vines. Learning how to propagate wisteria vines is easy; however, doing so by way of seed is not a good idea. If choosing to propagate from seed, soak them overnight and plant. The seeds should sprout within a few weeks but keep in mind that blooming may not occur for 10-15 years, if ever.
Wisteria grows best if planted in the ground but it can be grown in a container. Plant the wisteria vine in a container that’s 2 to 4 times the size of the one it originally came in. Water and feed regularly. To rejuvenate overgrown wisteria, you can prune back hard (prune all shoots off the main trunk down to 3 or 5 buds, or instead, about 3 feet below where you want the mature length to be. Cut the main branches back to 4 to 6 feet. Remove all suckers).
Pruning. Proper pruning techniques are essential for maintaining wisteria. Without pruning, wisteria vines can grow 100 feet or more. Any blooms the plant produces will be too high up to see. Wisteria should be pruned in midsummer to shorten the new lateral branches back to 6 inches. In late winter, it should be pruned again to the same effect. Fertilizer. Wisteria, like many legumes, doesn't require a lot of fertilizer. In fact, too much fertilizer can delay or prevent blooming. Young wisteria plants benefit from an application of a balanced 10-10-10 fertilizer in the spring at a rate of 1/2 cup per plant.
Overview. Wisteria is a fast-growing, deciduous vine which, according to the National Gardening Association, can grow 10 feet or more in one year. They are noted for their fragrant flowers, which resemble clusters of grapes. Wisteria are very versatile and can be grown as shrubs, vines or even trees. 
The vines require strong support to keep up with their fast growth. Wisteria can grow up to 10 feet a year, especially once it's established in the proper environment. It performs best in deep, moist, but well-drained soils that are neutral to slightly alkaline. 
How to Grow Wisteria Seeds. If you know how to grow wisteria, you know how to grow wisteria seeds. All you need to know when thinking about how to grow wisteria seeds is that if you have established wisteria plants, you will have seed pods in no time. These seed pods carry lots of seeds inside them, and so long as you have established wisteria vines, you will get plenty of seed pods. Advertisement.
Wisteria (also spelled Wistaria or Wysteria) is a genus of flowering plants in the pea family, Fabaceae, that includes ten species of woody climbing vines native to the Eastern United States and to China, Korea, and Japan. Wisteria, especially Wisteria sinensis, is very hardy and fast-growing. It can grow in fairly poor-quality soils, but prefers fertile, moist, well-drained soil. They thrive in full sun. Wisteria can be propagated via hardwood cutting, softwood cuttings, or seed.