Since 1835, Lea & Perrins has been the one truly authentic brand of Worcestershire sauce. Lea & Perrins combines the finest ingredients sourced from around the world and ages them to perfection to produce a flavor unmatched for over 175 years. 
Worcestershire Tour and Travel Information Guide. Worcestershire mainly lies between the majestic Malvern Hills and the mellow Cotswolds and does include the village of Broadway, known as the Jewel of the Cotswolds and the northern gateway to the Cotswolds. The easiest airport for travelling to Worcestershire & the Cotswolds is Birmingham, a one hour drive away from Broadway in the south of Worcestershire and 30 minutes from the northern part of the county.
In 1838 the first bottles of Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce were released to the general public. On 16 October 1897, Lea & Perrins relocated manufacturing of the sauce from their pharmacy to a factory in Aston on Midlands Road where it is still manufactured. The use of similar fermented anchovy sauces in Europe can be traced back to the 17th century. The Lea & Perrins brand was commercialised in 1837 and has continued to be the leading global brand of Worcestershire sauce.
Worcestershire sauce (/ˈwʊstərʃər/), sometimes shortened to Worcester sauce (/ˈwʊstər/), is a fermented liquid condiment of complex mixture, of British origin from Worcester and popularised by Lea & Perrins, based on an older Greco-Roman sauce. The use of similar fermented anchovy sauces in Europe can be traced back to the 17th century. The Lea & Perrins brand was commercialised in 1837 and has continued to be the leading global brand of Worcestershire sauce.
Towns in the county include Redditch, Bromsgrove, Stourport-on-Severn, Droitwich, Evesham, Kidderminster and Malvern. The north-east of Worcestershire includes part of the industrial West Midlands; the rest of the county is largely rural. Administratively the county is divided into six districts: Worcester, Redditch, Wychavon, Malvern Hills, Wyre Forest and Bromsgrove. The county is home to Worcestershire County Cricket Club, traditionally first stop on for the touring national side's schedule in England. Formed officially in 1865, the Club initially played in Boughton Park, before moving to its current New Road ground, which today can host 5,500 spectators, in 1895.
Worcestershire Sauce, from the south Midland region of England, is world famous and is not really a sauce but a flavoring. It originated when Lord Sandys, a native of the city of Worcester, returned from a tour of duty as Governor of Bengal. 
detailed map of Worcester and near places. Welcome to the Worcester google satellite map! This place is situated in Worcestershire County, West Midlands, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 52° 12' 0 North, 2° 12' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Worcester. 
Worcestershire (/ˈwʊstəʃə/ WUUS-tə-shə or /ˈwʊstəʃɪər/ WUUS-tər-sheer; abbreviated Worcs) is a county in the West Midlands of England. Between 1974 and 1998, it was merged with the neighbouring county of Herefordshire as Hereford and Worcester. The county is home to Worcestershire County Cricket Club, traditionally first stop on for the touring national side's schedule in England. Formed officially in 1865, the Club initially played in Boughton Park, before moving to its current New Road ground, which today can host 5,500 spectators, in 1895.
Upton upon Severn. Upton upon Severn is a picturesque little riverside town in the county of Worcestershire, situated near the Malvern Hills and about 11 miles from the main City of Worcester. It is..... 