He is the author of over 55 marketing books, including Principles of Marketing, Kotler on Marketing: How to Create, Win, and Dominate Markets, and Marketing 3.0: From Products to Customers to the Human Spirit. He links the profit motive to the satisfaction of consumer wants and society's well-being. In order to market effectively, Kotler believes the marketing purpose of elevating consumer well-being has to be put at the heart of company strategy and be practiced by all managers.
Philip Kotler is the S.C. Johnson & Son Distinguished Professor of International Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He received his Masters degree at the University of Chicago and his Ph.D. at MIT, both in economics. My recent book with Milton Kotler, Winning Global Markets, is chosen as one of the 5 top marketing books of the year. On February 18 they will announce who is in 1st place. Check the other participating books at below link: http://www.marketingbookoftheyear.org/and-the-winner-is.
Dr. Philip Kotler is the S.C. Johnson & Son Distinguished Professor of International Marketing at the Northwestern University Kellogg Graduate School of Management in Chicago. Publications. Dr. Kotler is known to many as the author of what is widely recognized as the most authoritative textbook on marketing: Marketing Management, now in its 13th edition. He has also authored or co-authored dozens of leading books on marketing. A list of books by Dr. Kotler is available here
Kotler is also the founder of the World Marketing Summit, whose annual conferences are dedicated to finding ways to improve human conditions and the quality of life. He also co-established the world's first Museum of Marketing (3.0) in Ubud, Bali, Indonesia. . He links the profit motive to the satisfaction of consumer wants and society's well-being. In order to market effectively, Kotler believes the marketing purpose of elevating consumer well-being has to be put at the heart of company strategy and be practiced by all managers.
Biography of Philip Kotler, PhD. Philip Kotler is the S.C. Johnson & Son Distinguished Professor of International Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Professor Kotler has consulted for such companies as IBM, General Electric, AT&T, Honeywell, Bank of America, Merck and others in the areas of marketing strategy and planning, marketing organization and international marketing.
Professor Philip Kotler, the world's foremost authority on marketing, is not only a superstar in the field he helped create but also an inspiring, wonderful human being to whom I owe a personal debt of gratitude. 
In 1967, Kotler published Marketing Management: Analysis, Planning, and Control, now in its 14th edition, and the world's most widely adopted textbook in graduate schools of business. He links the profit motive to the satisfaction of consumer wants and society's well-being. In order to market effectively, Kotler believes the marketing purpose of elevating consumer well-being has to be put at the heart of company strategy and be practiced by all managers.
1 Dr. Philip Kotler defines marketing as “the science and art of exploring, creating, and delivering value to satisfy the needs of a target market at a profit. 2  Marketing identifies unfulfilled needs and desires. 3  It defines, measures and quantifies the size of the identified market and the profit potential. 1 Marketing is meeting the needs and wants of a consumer. 2  Andrew Cohen – President, The A Team (Disclaimer: I’m not related to Andrew.). 3  In line with the firm’s business goals, marketing attracts consumers’ scarce resources, attention and disposable income, to drive profitable revenues.
In 2003, the Financial Times cited Kotler's three major contributions to marketing and to management: First, he has done more than any other writer or scholar to promote the importance of marketing, transforming it from a peripheral activity, bolted on to the more important work of production. He links the profit motive to the satisfaction of consumer wants and society's well-being. In order to market effectively, Kotler believes the marketing purpose of elevating consumer well-being has to be put at the heart of company strategy and be practiced by all managers.