The study, “Elephant-to-Human Transmission of Tuberculosis, 2009,” appears in the March issue of the CDC journal Emerging Infectious Diseases. It describes the 2009 outbreak of tuberculosis skin test conversions among eight employees at an elephant refuge in Tennessee. Therefore, guidelines for the control of TB in elephants rely on test results as well as the elephant’s history of exposure to TB.”. TB bacteria can often live in a person’s body without causing illness because the body is able to fight the bacteria to keep it from growing.
In African elephants, related forms of these viruses, which have been identified in wild populations, are generally benign, occasionally surfacing to cause small growths or lesions. However, some types of EEHV can cause a highly fatal disease in Asian elephants, which kills up to 80% of severely affected individuals. The disease can be treated with the rapid application of antiviral drugs, but this has only been effective in around a third of cases. The affected animals are mostly young Asian elephants that had been born in captivity,with half the cases in North America being between the ages of one and four years (and three-quarters between one and eight years old).
Lyme disease is spread through the bite of an infected tick (vector). Wild mammals, especially small rodents and deer, can carry the bacteria in nature. Ticks get the bacteria when they feed (bloodmeal) on infected wildlife. 
Cancer is a disease of aging, and elephants can live up to 70 years. Over the course of a life that long, elephants grow a lot — burgeoning from 200-pound babies to 12,000-pound giants. All that growth involves cell division, a process that provides opportunities for potentially lethal genetic mistakes. According to everything we know about cancer, elephants should be hit hard by the disease. Over the course of a life that long, elephants grow a lot –
“There are culture methods and blood tests to detect TB in elephants but these methods often produce false negative results,” Murphree said. “This means TB infection, or active disease, can’t be ruled out if the test is negative. Therefore, guidelines for the control of TB in elephants rely on test results as well as the elephant’s history of exposure to TB.”. TB bacteria can often live in a person’s body without causing illness because the body is able to fight the bacteria to keep it from growing. When it does activate and begin multiplying, the TB disease can be very contagious and life threatening for both humans and elephants
Elephant endotheliotropic herpesviruses (EEHV) are a type of herpesvirus, which can cause a highly fatal hemorrhagic disease when transmitted to young Asian elephants. The affected animals are mostly young Asian elephants that had been born in captivity,with half the cases in North America being between the ages of one and four years (and three-quarters between one and eight years old).
(Out of 18 elephants in a European circus, 11 became infected and one died.) Elephant pox, which is related to the human disease smallpox, can be contracted by humans. Asian elephants are more susceptible to pox virus infection than are African elephants. Treatment: 1  Immediately separate the elephant from other animals in the herd. 2  Take the elephant to a shady, clean, and quiet place. 3  Feed the elephant with highly nutritious food that is easy to swallow, such as ripe bananas or other fresh fruit.
Tuberculosis is a chronic disease of the respiratory system that usually enters the body through the trunk, the windpipe [trachea], and the lungs. Tuberculosis is a bacterial disease (Mycobacterium spp.) that can infect both elephants and humans. Treatment: 1  Immediately separate the elephant from other animals in the herd. 2  Take the elephant to a shady, clean, and quiet place. 3  Feed the elephant with highly nutritious food that is easy to swallow, such as ripe bananas or other fresh fruit.
Elephant foot disease (or filariasis elephantiasis) is the disease by a filaria worm be transmitted through different types of mosquitoes. After get bitten by mosquitoes, is spreading a parasite (larvae), and then aim the network system of Lympa Berkembanglah, in the disease. These diseases are chronic (chronic) and if it receives no treatment, can lead that disabilities residing in the form of the extension of the legs, arms, and genitals of both men and women. Elephant foot disease is not a deadly disease, but for sufferers something that felt shame can interfere with everyday activities.
For this reason, filariasis can be transferred very quickly. Signs and symptoms of diseases of the feet of an elephant. Someone with the disease is infected is, at the foot of the elephant age started in childhood, that is for a long time (years) felt his his development. For the acute symptoms that occur can, include: Over and over again for 3-5 days fever, fever may be lost if the break and appeared again working weight. These diseases are chronic (chronic) and if it receives no treatment, can lead that disabilities residing in the form of the extension of the legs, arms, and genitals of both men and women. Elephant foot disease is not a deadly disease, but for sufferers something that felt shame can interfere with everyday activities.