The Red Angus breed had its beginning in Europe, like most other beef breeds today. In the eighth-century Norsemen raiding the coasts of England and Scotland brought with them a small, dun-colored hornless cattle, which interbred with black native Celtic cattle of inland Scotland, which had upright horns. 
The Brangus breed was developed to the superior traits of Angus and Brahman cattle. Their genetics are stabilized at 3/8 Brahman and 5/8 Angus. The combination results in a breed which unites the traits of two highly successful parent breeds. A Brangus is a hardy and popular breed of beef cattle, a cross between an Angus and a Brahman. An animal eligible for registration as a Brangus cattle is 5/8 Angus and 3/8 Brahman.
On May 17, 1873, George Grant brought four Angus bulls, without any cows, to Victoria, Kansas. These were seen as unusual as the normal American cattle consisted of Shorthorns and Longhorns, and the bulls were used only in crossbreeding. The main use of Angus cattle is for beef production and consumption. The beef can be marketed as superior due to its marbled appearance. This has led to many markets, including Australia, Japan and the United Kingdom to adopt it into the mainstream.
The breed of Red Angus originally began in Europe, and was introduced to England and Scotland during raids. However, in Europe at this time, there was need for a heavier cow to be used for pulling draughts. English Longhorns, a large breed of cattle and red in colour were brought in and bred with the black polled breeds native to Scotland. This resulted in the red colouration of the Aberdeen Angus. Red Angus have all of the characteristics of Black Angus. The cows are hardy, and all grow quickly. They produce marbled meat like that of the Black Angus, and their meat is also highly desired in butchers, supermarkets, restaurants, and in the home.
The native colour is black, but more recently red colours have emerged. The UK registers both in the same herd book, but in the US they are regarded as two separate breeds – Red Angus and Black Angus. Black Angus is the most common breed of beef cattle in the US, with 324,266 animals registered in 2005. The main use of Angus cattle is for beef production and consumption. The beef can be marketed as superior due to its marbled appearance. This has led to many markets, including Australia, Japan and the United Kingdom to adopt it into the mainstream.
One of the most successful English breeds of cattle, the Angus has long been the cattle “business” breed. Its black color is highly sought after in crossbreeding programs as a potential seal of Angus quality. Perhaps the most represantitve breed in cowherds, the Angus holds a well earned spot amongst all beef breeds. In the latter half of the 18th century, the cattle of the Aberdeen – Angus counties of northeast Scotland were being heavily used for the improvement of other regional cattle herds.
These breeds are the Aberdeen-Angus, the Galloway, and the red polled Norfolk and Suffolk breed that is found in England. Polled cattle apparently existed in Scotland before recorded history because the likeness of such cattle is found in prehistoric carvings of Aberdeen and Angus. Breeds of Livestock-Angus Cattle. In the northeastern part of Scotland lie the four counties of Aberdeen, Banff, Kincardine, and Angus. These counties touch the North Sea and all extend inland and have some high or mountainous country.
This breed is a popular breed now in countries like Australia, and is famous for its beef. Red Angus are now a popular breed of cattle, and was ranked 9th on the U.S. list of registered cattle in 1990. Red Angus have all of the characteristics of Black Angus. The cows are hardy, and all grow quickly. They produce marbled meat like that of the Black Angus, and their meat is also highly desired in butchers, supermarkets, restaurants, and in the home.
The Angus cattle or Aberdeen Angus have commonly been bred for their use in the production of beef. Originally developed in the country of Aberdeen and Angus Scotland the breed has been typically referred to as the Aberdeen Angus cattle by many countries all over the globe. The Angus breeds found in the United States have been easily identified as two specific breeds of either the Red or Black Angus with the Black Angus observed as the more common of the two breeds used for its production of beef with a registered number of over three hundred thousand cows.
Angus cattle, known as Aberdeen Angus in most parts of the world, are a breed of cattle commonly used in beef production. They were developed from cattle native to the counties of Aberdeenshire and Angus in Scotland. Angus cattle are naturally polled and solid black or red although the udder may be white. The main use of Angus cattle is for beef production and consumption. The beef can be marketed as superior due to its marbled appearance. This has led to many markets, including Australia, Japan and the United Kingdom to adopt it into the mainstream.