Many health insurance companies pay for the cost of all three shots. HPV vaccination is included in the Vaccines for Children Program for boys and girls up to the age of 18. Each shot costs $130 to $150, for a total of around $390 to $450 for the series. Some providers also will charge a fee to administer th
It protects against HPV strains 6, 11, 16, and 18; almost 70 percent of cervical cancer cases and 90 percent of genital warts cases are linked to those four strains of HPV. The vaccine is given in three shots over eight months. 
Routine Vaccination. 1  HPV vaccine is routinely recommended for girls 11 and 12 years of age. 2  The HPV4 vaccine (the type recommended for prevention of genital warts in girls) may also be given in three doses to boys aged 9 to 26. Routine Vaccination. 1  HPV vaccine is routinely recommended for girls 11 and 12 years of age. 2  Doctors may give it to girls as young as 9 years. 3
The HPV vaccine is a series of three shots given over 6 months. For the vaccine to work best, all three shots must be given. The vaccine doesn't treat an HPV infection. But it may protect a person against types of the HPV virus other than the one causing the infection. 
Most pediatricians recommend routine vaccination against HPV for girls, and to a lesser extent, for boys (the CDC made a permissive recommendation regarding boys and the HPV vaccine. It can be given to them between 9 and 26 years old, but it need not be routine, partly because of the vaccine's high cost). Here's what you need to know about meningitis prevention. There are two HPV vaccines: Gardasil and Cervarix. Gardasil, which protects against four HPV types (6, 11, 16, and 18), is approved by the FDA for use by females aged 9-26 to help prevent cancer of the cervix, vagina, and vulva; genital warts, and anal cancer. It's also approved for males aged 9-26 to help prevent genital warts and anal cancer
HPV vaccine is important because it protects against cancers caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. HPV is a very common virus; nearly 80 million people—about one in four—are currently infected in the United States. About 14 million people, including teens, become infected with HPV each year. All kids who are 11 or 12 years old should get the three-dose series of HPV vaccine to protect against HPV. Teen boys and girls who did not start or finish the HPV vaccine series when they were younger should get it now.
The HPV vaccine is a series of three shots given over 6 months. It is recommended for preteen and teen boys and girls to protect them from the human papillomavirus (HPV) and the serious health problems that the virus can cause, including certain cancers and genital warts. The vaccine will protect them from the most common types of HPV. There are about 40 different types of HPV. Girls can get the vaccine through age 26, and most boys can get the vaccine through age 21. The HPV vaccine is also recommended for gay and bisexual men (or any man who has sex with men).
Additional costs: 1  The HPV vaccination requires three shots. 2  The second shot is given two months after the first, and the final shot is given six months after the first. 3  The vaccine is almost 100 percent effective in protecting against the four targeted strains of HPV. Shopping for human papillomavirus vaccine: 1  Eligible children 18 and younger can get the HPV vaccination for free through the Vaccines for Children program. 2  Check with your child's pediatrician or your family doctor. 3  Genital HPV is spread through sexual contact, so it is best for females to get vaccinated before they become sexually active. 4  HPV ...
1 For patients not covered by health insurance, the cost of HPV vaccination typically includes: shot administration fees and the cost of the three required doses of the vaccine at about $125 each, for a total of $400 to $500. Shopping for human papillomavirus vaccine: 1  Eligible children 18 and younger can get the HPV vaccination for free through the Vaccines for Children program. 2  Check with your child's pediatrician or your family doctor. 3  Genital HPV is spread through sexual contact, so it is best for females to get vaccinated before they become sexually active. 4  HPV ...