The judicial branch decides what amendments are unconstitutional as well as acts of the president. However, if the judicial branch were to declare an act of the president unconstitutional, it would mean that Congress agreed to this act.
Within the separation of powers, each of the three branches of government has “checks and balances” over the other two. For instance, Congress makes the laws, but the President can veto them and the Supreme Court can declare them unconstitutional.
The judicial branch decides what amendments are unconstitutional as well as acts of the president. However, if the judicial branch were to declare an act of the president unco … nstitutional, it would mean that Congress agreed to this act.
The Judicial Branch can declare an Executive Order (a Presidential Order) unconstitutional if it is presented to the court as part of a case or controversy.
The Judicial Branch can declare a Presidential Order (called an Executive Order) unconstitutional. While the US Supreme Court is the final arbiter of constitutionality, even US District Courts can overturn an Executive Order, as was the case with President Obama's moratorium on deep water drilling in the Gulf.
The U.S. Constitution separates the U.S. government into legislative, executive and judicial branches. Each branch has its own set of powers and responsibilities. The legislative branch passes laws; the executive branch -- headed by the President of the United States -- can either sign or veto laws passed by Congress.
Checks and Balances. The U.S. government is designed such that the three branches of the federal government have a number of built-in checks and balances. The judicial branch can declare laws passed by Congress or executive acts by the President of the United States unconstitutional, thus legally voiding them. However, all federal judges are nominated by the president and approved by the Senate. Additionally, Congress can remove a federal judge from office by impeachment.
The Judicial Branch has the power to declare unconstitutional a law  enacted by Congress. The Supreme Court of the U.S. heads the  judicial branch.