After my floors are refinished, how long should I wait before walking on or placing furniture on them? Typically, 24 hours after the last coat is applied your floors should be dry enough to walk on and place furniture on. Even though the floors are dry, it will take the finish about 21 days to fully cure. 
Water based polyurethane dries faster. 1  4-6 hrs before you can walk on the floors. 2  Hours 6-24, you can walk on the floors with socks. 3  Avoid shoes and bare feet. 4  And, make sure your pets don't walk on the floors during this interval. 5  1 hrs you can walk on it with shoes. 6  After 2 days, you can move furniture back. 1 After 4 days, you can move furniture back on to the floors. 2  It's ideal to wait 1-2 weeks before dogs walk on the floors (unless they use doggie socks). 3  It takes a full 30 days for the floors to cure, so it's ideal to wait 30 days before putting area rugs on the surface.
The finish will be dry overnight, but polyurethane needs time to cure and harden. The rule of thumb is that wood floor finishes are 80% cured by the end of two weeks; the floor will be completely cured and hardened after a full year. A: You can clean your hardwood floor by damp mopping it with a well wrung out mixture of 10% ammonia or vinegar to 90% water. After you damp mop it then dry it with a dry towel (Treat the polyurethane on your floor as you might windows and mirrors-it is a clear finish over your natural wood).
1 24 hrs before you can walk on the floors. 2  Hours 24-48, you can walk on the floors with socks. 3  Avoid shoes and bare feet. 4  And, make sure your pets (who usually have bare feet) do not walk on the floors during this time. 5  48 hrs you can walk on it with shoes. 6  After 4 days, you can move furniture back on to the floors. 1 After 4 days, you can move furniture back on to the floors. 2  It's ideal to wait 1-2 weeks before dogs walk on the floors (unless they use doggie socks). 3  It takes a full 30 days for the floors to cure, so it's ideal to wait 30 days before putting area rugs on the surface.
Q. When can we walk on the floors? On average, you can walk on the floors approximately 24 hours after the application of the final coat. We recommend that for hours 24-48 that you wear socks only-no shoes, no bare feet. Click here for more info on How long does it take to refinish hardwood floors.
Oil based polyurethane takes longer to dry than water based poly. 1  24 hrs before you can walk on the floors. 2  Hours 24-48, you can walk on the floors with socks. 3  Avoid shoes and bare feet. 4  And, make sure your pets (who usually have bare feet) do not walk on the floors during this time. 5  48 hrs you can walk on it with shoes. 1 After 4 days, you can move furniture back on to the floors. 2  It's ideal to wait 1-2 weeks before dogs walk on the floors (unless they use doggie socks). 3  It takes a full 30 days for the floors to cure, so it's ideal to wait 30 days before putting area rugs on the surface.
A: Typically 24 hours after the last coat is applied your floors should be dry enough to walk on and place furniture on. Even though the floors are dry the finish will still be soft therefore you must wait 10 to 14 days before you place any area rugs down. This will ensure your floor cures properly. Polyurethane won t dry in the cold so be certain your heat is set and functioning. Depending on how much sanding they ve already had will depend on how many more sandings it can withstand. Depression flooring (flooring installed in the 1930 s) is much thinner and often can t be refinished but once.
We recommend that you not put your area rugs back down for three weeks after the job is complete. This allows ample time for the floor to cure. Q. When can we walk on the floors? On average, you can walk on the floors approximately 24 to 36 hours after the application of the third finish coat. Q. When can our pet walk on the floors? Pets can walk on floors one to two days after finish is dry, depending on the size of the animal. Q. How long does it take to cure the floors? It will take approximately 2 to 3 weeks for oil-based finish to cure and one week for water based finish, depending on the weather conditions inside and outside the home. Q. How long will the finish last? The lifestyle of the home determines how long the finish will last