Pinot Gris. Pinot gris (or pinot grigio, as it is known in Italy) probably is the best-known variant-clone of Pinot Noir. Although gris translates to grey, ripe pinot gris grapes may be described as having colors from light pinkish brown to deep bluish grey
While Italy’s Pinot Grigio wine is now one of the world’s most asked-for wines, the grape originated as a mutation of Pinot Noir in Alsace, France, where it’s called Pinot Gris. So let’s break down Pinot Gris vs. Pinot Grigio. 
Today Pinot Gris/Pinot Grigio grapes are planted all over the world in almost every wine-growing region. For the most part these countries are making the more fashionable Pinot Grigio style, which is typically easy-drinking and destined for early consumption. Personally, I find these qualities most prevalent in the Pinot Grigio wines from Alto Adige in Northern Italy, where the wines show great purity, and are delicately aromatic with great intensity and depth of flavor. As for the Pinot Gris style, I am truly an ardent Alsace fan.
Pinot Gris Pinot gris (or pinot grigio, as it is known in Italy) probably is the best-known variant-clone of Pinot Noir. Although gris translates to grey, ripe pinot gris grapes may be described as having colors from light pinkish brown to deep bluish grey. Clusters with a variety of berry colors are not unusual.
The wines produced from this grape also vary in color from a deep golden yellow to copper and even a light shade of pink, and it is one of the more popular grapes for orange wine. The clone of Pinot gris grown in Italy is known as Pinot grigio. Pinot gris is grown around the globe with the spicy full-bodied Alsatian and lighter-bodied, more acidic Italian styles being most widely recognized.
Perhaps you already know that Pinot Gris and Pinot Grigio are the same wine. What’s surprising is that the gray-red grape that makes these wines is a mutation of Pinot, the mysterious mother grape to all ‘Pinot’ wines (e.g. Pinot Noir, Pinot Blanc, Pinot Gris etc). Pinot Gris is famous for its refreshing citrus flavor and zesty acidity.
Pinot gris or Grauburgunder is a white wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. Thought to be a mutant clone of the Pinot noir variety, it normally has a grayish-blue fruit, accounting for its name (gris meaning gray in French) but the grapes can have a brownish pink to black and even white appearance. Pinot gris is grown around the globe with the spicy full-bodied Alsatian and lighter-bodied, more acidic Italian styles being most widely recognized.
Also called Pinot Gris, this grape varietal produces a light, acidic white wine. Italy is the biggest producer, specifically Lombardy and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, but Pinot Grigio is also grown and produced in in the Alsace region of France, Australia, Oregon and California, among other places. The grape is a mutation of the also well-known Pinot Noir, which results in a red wine. Pinot Grigio wines vary in taste. Generally they qualify as a dry white wine, however some are more fruity, and they tend to be clean and light.
Pinot Gris Wine. Pinot Gris is a white-wine grape originally from the vineyards of Burgundy, but now found in wine regions all over the world. When produced in the pale, light style popularized in late 20th-Century Italy, the variety and its wines are typically referred to by the Italian name Pinot Grigio. 
Pinot Gris (aka Pinot Grigio). Pinot Gris, called Pinot Grigio in Italy, is a noble variety that, unfortunately, doesn't always produce highly refined wine. At its best, in Alsace, where it's usually called Tokay Pinot Gris, the wines are extremely rich and honeyed, in either a dry, or just off-dry style.