DTH is a digital satellite service that provides television viewing services directly to subscribers through satellite transmission anywhere in the country. In this a dish is placed outside a home which helps in receiving the signals and broadcasting the transmission onto a television. The signals are digital by nature and are received directly from the satellite. The digital signals provide optimum quality in all features and make viewing an absolute pleasure.
Direct-broadcast satellite (DBS) is a type of artificial satellite which usually sends satellite television signals for home reception. As of 2013, India has the most competitive direct-broadcast satellite market with seven operators (six private DTH and one Govertment-owned FTA DTH) vying for more than 110 million television homes.
The Direct-To-Home (DTH) service is a digital satellite service that provides television services direct to subscribers anywhere in the country. 
The way DTH reaches a consumer's home is different from the way cable TV does. In DTH, TV channels would be transmitted from the satellite to a small dish antenna mounted on the window or rooftop of the subscriber's home. So the broadcaster directly connects to the user. The way out of this is to use a set-top box so that it will be clear how many households are actually using cable or going for DTH where broadcasters directly connect to consumers and can actually grow revenues with a growth in the subscriber base.
At the user end, there will be a small dish antenna and set-top boxes to decode and view numerous channels. On the user's end, receiving dishes can be as small as 45 cm in diametre. DTH is an encrypted transmission that travels to the consumer directly through a satellite. DTH transmission is received directly by the consumer at his end through the small dish antenna. A set-top box, unlike the regular cable connection, decodes the encrypted transmission. The way out of this is to use a set-top box so that it will be clear how many households are actually using cable or going for DTH where broadcasters directly connect to consumers and can actually grow revenues with a growth in the subscriber base.
DTH may refer to: 1  The Daily Tar Heel, a student newspaper at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 2  Dance Theatre of Harlem, New York City. 3  Danmarks Tekniske Hoejskole, højskole a previous name for The Technical university Of. 4  Denmark, decatherm measurement unit for: heat 10, 1,000,000 1000000.  btu 
With DTH, you will also be able to view High Definition (HD) channels, more number of dth channels and you can customize the package as per your choices. High Definition is another path-breaking technology in television viewing. In this a dish is placed outside a home which helps in receiving the signals and broadcasting the transmission onto a television. The signals are digital by nature and are received directly from the satellite. The digital signals provide optimum quality in all features and make viewing an absolute pleasure.
Direct to home (DTH) television is a wireless system for delivering television programs directly to the viewer's house. In DTH television, the broadcast signals are transmitte … d from satellites orbiting the Earth to the viewer's house. It is also an abbreviation for Direct-to-home when referring to Dish TV broadcasting, Detroit Edison class H stocks, and the airport code for Death Valley, California. Since this was originally posted in Graduate Degrees, I have no idea if any of these is the answer you were looking for.
The type of satellite television which uses direct-broadcast satellites is known as direct-broadcast satellite television (DBSTV) or direct-to-home television (DTHTV). As of 2013, India has the most competitive direct-broadcast satellite market with seven operators (six private DTH and one Govertment-owned FTA DTH) vying for more than 110 million television homes.
At the user end, there will be a small dish antenna and set-top boxes to decode and view numerous channels On the user's end, receiving dishes can be as small as 45 cm in diametre.   DTH is an encrypted transmission that travels to the consumer directly through a satellite. DTH transmission is received directly by the consumer at his end through the small dish antenna. A set-top box, unlike the regular cable connection decodes the encrypted transmission. 4 people found this useful. It is also an abbreviation for Direct-to-home when referring to Dish TV broadcasting, Detroit Edison class H stocks, and the airport code for Death Valley, California. Since this was originally posted in Graduate Degrees, I have no idea if any of these is the answer you were looking for.