They have a lifespan of about 80 – 90 years. Some have even lived up to 100 years. Macaws are found in South America, Mexico, and Caribbean. Now you can well imagine how long do parrots live! The larger the size is, the longer the expected lifespan of the parrot. Since these birds are mostly kept under captivity they are generally expected to live a longer life as compared to other wild birds. Parrots are considered to be one of the most intelligent birds. These birds are generally found in the tropical and subtropical regions including Australia, Southeast Asia, South America, Philippines, New Guinea, Mexico, Europe and Bahamas.
Depends enormously on the species-budgies can often live into their teens, large parrots, such as amazons, macaws, cockatoos, greys, can live for over 50 years, on occ … asion to over 70. An African Grey, with the right care, can live 60+ years. Most parrots are very long-lived, with even budgies living to more than 15 years. an African grey parrot can live for … 100 years. 5 people found this useful.
Ring neck doves can live up to 15 years or longer if well taken care of.   My pet white ringneck dove just died. I have had him for 32 years, 3 months. I don't know how ol … d he was when we got him from the pet store. His mate died over ten years ago. An African Grey, with the right care, can live 60+ years. Most parrots are very long-lived, with even budgies living to more than 15 years. an African grey parrot can live for … 100 years. 5 people found this useful.
1 The cost of a ringneck will often depend upon the age of the bird, the breeder selling it, the species of parrot, and the geographical location. 2  On average, the cost of this type of parrot can range anywhere from $100 to as much as $1,200 for a rarer species or color. 1 A rarer ringneck such as the violets and cleartails can cost more than $1,000 each. 2  On a forum thread on the website ParrotForums.com, users claimed that they could find ringnecks that range anywhere from $50 to as much as $1,000.
Parrots are the longest-lived order of birds: cockatoos and Amazonian parrots can reach the age of 75 or older. Even budgerigars live for 15‑25 years, which is an exceptionally long life for such small animals. 
Life Expectancy. In the wild, Indian ringnecks have been documented to live up to 50 years, with 20 to 30 being more the norm. Caged ringnecks typically live between 15 and 25 years. Ringnecks love to fly, so buy a cage at least 36 inches high, 18 inches deep and 24 inches wide. Make sure its bars are made of stainless steel or steel covered with non-chipping paint so your pets don't ingest paint and become ill. Indian ringnecks need a healthy diet to live a long time.
Macaws are the largest family of parrots, and some can grow as tall as three feet and weigh up to 4 pounds. Since they are the largest parrots, macaws also have the longest life expectancies. If a young macaw joins your family, it probably will outlive you, as healthy macaws can survive 60 to 80 years. Even the smaller macaws, like the Hahns macaw, can live up 60 years. Amazons are smaller parrots than macaws or cockatoos, but they are still large enough to be a lifetime companion. Most Amazons are are about the size of a pigeon and many are very colorful. Amazons parrots can be very intelligent, talkative and playful. The average life expectancy of an Amazon parrot is 50 to 70 years.
Proper care will help them live a long time. In the wild, Indian ringnecks have been documented to live up to 50 years, with 20 to 30 being more the norm. Caged ringnecks typically live between 15 and 25 years. Ringnecks love to fly, so buy a cage at least 36 inches high, 18 inches deep and 24 inches wide. Make sure its bars are made of stainless steel or steel covered with non-chipping paint so your pets don't ingest paint and become ill. Indian ringnecks need a healthy diet to live a long time.
It depends on the type of parrot. Some parrot species can live up to 80 years, but smaller species may live only 15 to 20 years. An African Grey, with the right care, can live 60+ years. Most parrots are very long-lived, with even budgies living to more than 15 years. an African grey parrot can live for … 100 years. 5 people found this useful.