A demarc extension is the process of connecting your organization’s network to a data line–such as a T1, DSL, or POTS–provided by the telephone company or another vendor.
What is the demarcation point? The demarcation point, or demarc, is the point at which the telephone company's wiring ends and the customer's wiring begins. This point may vary depending on what country you are in, but in the U.S. the demarc is typically on the customers premise.
Also called point of demarcation (POD), demarc extension, or demarc, it is the physical point at which the public network of a telecommunications company (i.e., a phone or cable company) ends and the private network of a customer begins-this is usually where the cable physically enters a building.
The demarcation point (or demarc or Network Interface Device (NID) for short) serves several purposes: •It is the point that defines the end of the telephone company's wiring, and the beginning of your wiring. •It defines where the telephone company's responsibility for maintenance ends, and your responsibility begins.
•It allows you to temporarilly disconnect your wiring from the telephone company's wiring for troubleshooting purposes. Generally, the demarc is located on the exterior of your home in a grey or black box.
These diagrams and terminology will accelerate fault isolation and communications between parties when a demarc extension is suspect for circuit issues. It is recommended to test from the interface side of the access provider's demarcation point to isolate the telecom circuit from the demarc extension.
A demarc (an abbreviation for demarcation point) marks the point where communications facilities owned by one organization interface with that of another organization. In telephone terminology, this is the interface between customer-premises equipment and network service provider equipment.
The Demarc Pre-Wire is not interfaced into the local access providers's side of the Demarcation Point and thus is not a demarc extension. Patch Cord Testing. A demarc extension by definition is a complete channel, which can include patch cords or cross connects.