Definition: Deposition of calcium into the blood vessel structures. Excessive calcification of the vessels are associated with ATHEROSCLEROTIC PLAQUES formation particularly after MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION (see MONCKEBERG MEDIAL CALCIFIC SCLEROSIS) and chronic kidney diseases which in turn increase VASCULAR STIFFNESS. Examples Monckeberg Medial Calcific Sclerosis.
Vascular Calcification. Vascular calcification refers to accumulation of calcium in the vascular structures. Given below is some information on the risks associated with the accumulation of calcium in the blood vessels. Advertisement. Vascular calcification, which refers to the formation of hardened calcium deposits in the blood vessels, could be indicative of a vascular condition called atherosclerosis. Given below is some information on the circumstances under which calcium may get accumulated in the blood vessels
Calcification is a gradual accumulation of calcium in an area of your body tissue. Most of the calcium absorbed by your body ends up in your bones and teeth, where it is most needed. Calcification can be the body’s protective response to injury, as well as part of a natural inflammatory reaction to infection, trauma, or autoimmune disorders. Also, tumors (cancerous or noncancerous) can result in calcification within the tumor tissue. Calcification becomes a problem when its location, shape or size interferes with the organ function, such as calcifications that harden and block blood vessels in the heart, brain and kidney
Calcification of soft tissue (arteries, cartilage, heart valves, etc.) can be caused by vitamin K2 deficiency or by poor calcium absorption due to a high calcium/vitamin D ratio. This can occur with or without a mineral imbalance. It normally occurs in the formation of bone, but calcium can be deposited abnormally in soft tissue, causing it to harden. Calcifications may be classified on whether there is mineral balance or not, and the location of the calcification.
This is a problem that occurs mostly in the elderly because of aging. However, older people can get vascular calcification because of end stage renal failure, cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular problems or atherosclerosis. This in turn can be quite risky because the chances of getting heart attacks, heart failure or any other heart-related problems increase. As mentioned earlier that vascular calcification is quite prevalent in elder and senior people.
Calcification is the process in which calcium builds up in body tissue where there normally isn’t any calcium. Over time, the buildup can harden and disrupt your body’s normal processes. Calcium is transported through the bloodstream, so calcification can occur in almost any part of the body. According to the Institute of Medicine, about 99 percent of calcium in the body is transported to teeth and bones. The remaining 1 percent is in the blood, muscles, fluid outside the cells, and other body tissu
If an elderly person has vascular calcification, it basically refers to stiffening of the muscles that line the blood vessels. This means that the heart has to work harder to pump the blood through the blood vessels and can lead to the enlargement of the chambers of the heart. This in turn can be quite risky because the chances of getting heart attacks, heart failure or any other heart-related problems increase. As mentioned earlier that vascular calcification is quite prevalent in elder and senior people.
Calcification is the accumulation of calcium salts in a body tissue. It normally occurs in the formation of bone, but calcium can be deposited abnormally in soft tissue, causing it to harden. Calcifications may be classified on whether there is mineral balance or not, and the location of the calcification.