Wales, otherwise known as Cymru, is part of the United Kingdom and a country known for its rich history and culture. Here are some facts about this fascinating place. 1. Mount Everest was named after Welshman Sir George Everest from Gwernvale, Breconshire. Only 21% of the entire Welsh population of Wales can speak the native language. 3. Wales is believed to have more castles per square mile than anywhere else in the world. 4. Welshman Pryce Jones from Newtown Montgomeryshire created the first Mail Order business in the World. 5.
The governments of the United Kingdom and of Wales almost invariably define Wales as a country. The Welsh Government says: Wales is not a Principality. Although we are joined with England by land, and we are part of Great Britain, Wales is a country in its own right.. The title Prince of Wales is still conferred on the heir apparent to the British throne, currently Prince Charles. Wales is a generally mountainous country on the western side of central southern Great Britain. It is about 170 miles (270 km) north–south and 60 miles (97 km) east–west. The oft-quoted ' size of Wales ' is about 20,779 km 2 (8,023 sq mi).
17. The population sheep in Wales is four times greater than the Welsh population of humans. 18. Famous people from Wales include Richard Burton, Sir Anthony Hopkins, Tom Jones, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Shirley Bassey, Timothy Dalton and Charlotte church. 19. Saint David (in Wales “Dewi Sant”) was a Welsh Bishop during the 6th century, later regarded as a saint and regarded as the Patron Saint of Wales. 20. Only 21% of the entire Welsh population of Wales can speak the native language. 3. Wales is believed to have more castles per square mile than anywhere else in the world. 4. Welshman Pryce Jones from Newtown Montgomeryshire created the first Mail Order business in the World. 5.
Ivor Novello hailed from Cardiff, and Dylan Thomas is also well known around the world for his beautiful and poetic descriptions of welsh life, whilst the father of the British National Health Service was a Welshman, Aneurin (Nye) Bevan. A truly beautiful land, Wales boasts mountains and valleys which still occasionally ring to the sound of singing, or the delicate blend of instruments in brass bands. The Welsh Male Voice Choirs (famously Treorchy Male Voice-Cor Meibion Treorci), and the Brass Bands (T.
Wales is a country that is part of the United Kingdom. Constitutionally, the UK is a de jure unitary state, its parliament and government in Westminster. In the House of Commons – the lower house of the UK government – Wales is represented by 40 MPs (of 650) from Welsh constituencies. Wales is a generally mountainous country on the western side of central southern Great Britain. It is about 170 miles (270 km) north–south and 60 miles (97 km) east–west. The oft-quoted ' size of Wales ' is about 20,779 km 2 (8,023 sq mi).
Wales (/ˈweɪlz/ ; Welsh: Cymru [ˈkəm.rɨ]. ) is a country that is part of the United Kingdom and the island of Great Britain, bordered by England to its east, the Irish Sea to its north and west, and the Bristol Channel to its south. Wales is a generally mountainous country on the western side of central southern Great Britain. It is about 170 miles (270 km) north–south and 60 miles (97 km) east–west. The oft-quoted ' size of Wales ' is about 20,779 km 2 (8,023 sq mi).
Wales is famous for Rugby football, male voice choirs, Snowdonia, sheep, rain and people talking (sometimes in Welsh) in a sing-song voice.   Owen Glendower, Henry VII, Cha … rlotte Church, Lloyd George, Ryan Giggs, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Tom Jones, Richard Burton, Catherine Jenkins, my wife and many, many more. A truly beautiful land, Wales boasts mountains and valleys which still occasionally ring to the sound of singing, or the delicate blend of instruments in brass bands. The Welsh Male Voice Choirs (famously Treorchy Male Voice-Cor Meibion Treorci), and the Brass Bands (T.
Although Wales was never conquered by England, - nor ideed by the Romans-it has always been sadly oppressed by the english, and the adoption by the English royal family (who are technically Germans) of the title Prince of Wales for Prince Charles and many others before him, has never been well received in some quarters. A truly beautiful land, Wales boasts mountains and valleys which still occasionally ring to the sound of singing, or the delicate blend of instruments in brass bands. The Welsh Male Voice Choirs (famously Treorchy Male Voice-Cor Meibion Treorci), and the Brass Bands (T.
The leek. Staple fruits of the land include oats, barley, wheat and vegetables, including the famous Welsh leek – an enduring symbol of Wales and found in traditional dishes from Glamorgan Sausage to the hearty broth known simply as cawl. 