In an exclusive distribution agreement, the supplier appoints the distributor as its only distributor in a particular marketplace. The supplier agrees not to distribute the products in the market or appoint any third party to distribute the products in the market. 
Lets look at each word. When the word exclusive is used to describe something you immediately picture something that is expensive and not readily available to everyone. Distribution is the method a business uses to move its product from its warehouse to retailers and ultimately to you, the customer. There are many factors involved in deciding to use an exclusive distribution strategy and determining if exclusive distribution is right for the supplier's product. A supplier needs to understand: 1  What type of product they will be distributing.
In an exclusive distributor agreement, the supplier and wholesaler-distributor agree that the wholesaler-distributor will deal exclusively with the supplier for certain products. Such agreements foreclose the supplier's competitors from accessing the marketplace through the exclusive distribution network. 
Exclusive distribution is an agreement between a supplier and a retailer granting the retailer exclusive rights within a specific geographical area to carry the supplier's product. There are many factors involved in deciding to use an exclusive distribution strategy and determining if exclusive distribution is right for the supplier's product. A supplier needs to understand: 1  What type of product they will be distributing.
The setup and arrangement we had with the supplier was for exclusive distribution, we had worked out all of the details. 7 people found this helpful. This was an exclusive distribution agreement, so it had some rules in it that the people had to follow at all times. 6 people found this helpful. We have an exclusive distribution deal with this company, so all of our copy machines are going to be sold through them. 7 people found this helpful.
Definition. Situation where suppliers and distributors enter into an exclusive agreement that only allows the named distributor to sell a specific product. For example, Apple had an exclusive distribution deal with AT&T to provide the iPhone to consumers. This was an exclusive distribution agreement, so it had some rules in it that the people had to follow at all times. 6 people found this helpful. We have an exclusive distribution deal with this company, so all of our copy machines are going to be sold through them. 7
Exclusive distribution is an agreement between a supplier and retailer that grants the retailer exclusive rights within a specific geographic area to carry the supplier's product. There are many factors involved in deciding to use an exclusive distribution strategy. There are many factors involved in deciding to use an exclusive distribution strategy and determining if exclusive distribution is right for the supplier's product. A supplier needs to understand: 1  What type of product they will be distributing.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Exclusive distribution is a situation in which only certain dealers are authorized to sell a specific product within a particular territory. The legality of an exclusive distribution agreement can vary depending on the specifics of the case. If a firm can show that an exclusive distribution agreement harms competition in some way, it may be able to argue that the agreement is not legal. This type of distribution agreement is usually seen with high end and luxury products.
Exclusive distribution takes place when a supplier grants a distributor exclusivity of the sale of the contract goods or services within a territory, or to a specific group of customers. In exchange, the distributor will usually agree to sell goods or services of the supplier’s competitors. Exclusive distribution falls within the category of non-price vertical restraints. The Rationale Behind Exclusive Distributorships. Exclusivity is often used for the distribution of high quality or technically complex products that require a relatively high level of expertise.
Agreed-to restriction allowing a specific seller/marketer/distributor to represent a particular line of goods of services to a specific market or retail area. An example is an new line of clothing being marketed in a particular city by a specific marketer. 