Confidence votes 30.7K. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airtight container. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge. 2 people found this useful.
Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 50 people found this useful.
I wouldn't keep or use any meats that are left around any longer than your usual leftovers. I would say(no expert here) 5-7 days would be a safe maximum, if its kept cold and not out on the counter or at room temp at all. I rarely leave it in my fridge more than 2-3 days, than if there is any left, It goes into vac sealer and then freezer. I won't keep poultry around(cooked of course) for more than 1-3 days. Reply.
Cooked meat only keeps 3 days in the fridge:   http://www.canfightbac.org/cpcfse/en/cookwell/ask/where_how/#218   If you've got leftovers that you might not want t … o eat that quickly-freeze them on the day you cook them (chill first). You can always defrost them tomorrow if you need them then. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge. 2 people found this useful.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 50 people found this useful.
Food tends to keep longer than people think it does. As long as it doesn't look, smell, or taste odd, it is most likely fine. My rule for food is I usually use it within five days of when it was cooked, or I toss it. I make exceptions if I'm starving, and the food in question appears totally fine. 
Answers. Best Answer: Shelf life for pork at any restaurant I worked at has a life of 5 days after cooked. I do this as a job though, and we do not want to take any chances on getting people sick serving old food. If you would like to chance it, that is on you. 5 day shelf life. Source(s): sous chef. 
How long can I keep my fresh pork in the refrigerator? Sealed, pre-packed fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping the raw, fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. How long can I store ham or other smoked products in the refrigerator? Whole smoked ham and whole ham slices can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days or the use by date on the label. The best way to defrost pork is in the refrigerator in its wrapping. Follow these guidelines for defrosting pork in the refrigerator: 1  Small roast will take 3-5 hours per pound. 2  Large roast will take 4-7
Sealed, prepackaged, fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. Q. How long can I store ham or other smoked products in the refrigerator? Whole smoked ham and whole ham slices can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or until the use by date on the label. Smoked bacon and sausages can be kept for up to 7 days.