All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. The number of mitochondria in a cell can vary widely by organism, tissue, and cell type. For instance, red blood cells have no mitochondria, whereas liver cells can have more than 2000. The organelle is composed of compartments that carry out specialized functions.
The function of the mitochondria in a plant cell is to support the  function of the cell and the structure. The mitochondria usually  has a membrane which has folds that are … stretched to provide a  wider surface area for cellular activities. Confidence votes 21.0K. They do have mitochondria, though it is not as much of a power source for the plant-during the Daytime - , because chloroplasts do that job.
Mitochondria derive energy for all cells, plant or animal, in which they reside. They are the aerobic energy-derivers of eukaryotic cells. Plants require energy for multitudin … ous cellular processes just like animals and that is what the mitochondria are for. Confidence votes 21.0K. They do have mitochondria, though it is not as much of a power source for the plant-during the Daytime - , because chloroplasts do that job.
Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes. Plant and animal cells are both eukaryotic cells, so they have several features in common, such as the presence of a cell membrane, and cell organelles, like the nucleus, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum.
There are mitochondria in all plant and animal Cells; otherwise the Cells would not be able to respire aerobically-during the Nighttime - , and they would obtain very little Atp from each glucose molecule. It is also found in the animal Cell, as well. Confidence votes 21.0K. They do have mitochondria, though it is not as much of a power source for the plant-during the Daytime - , because chloroplasts do that job.
Plant cells have a rigid cell wall that surrounds the cell membrane. Animal cells do not have a cell wall. When looking under a microscope, the cell wall is an easy way to distinguish plant cells. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes. Plant and animal cells are both eukaryotic cells, so they have several features in common, such as the presence of a cell membrane, and cell organelles, like the nucleus, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum.
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division. Therefore, power-hungry cells have more mitochondria than cells with lower energy needs. For example, repeatedly stimulating a muscle cell will spur the production of more mitochondria in that cell, to keep up with energy demand.
3. Best Response. You've already chosen the best response. Hi, Plant cells have mitochondria for the same reason that we do-to produce energy (more efficiently!) Specifically, mitochondria allow for a more extensive breakdown of glucose, which results in more ATP for the cell. 