Complete blood count (CBC) test. A complete blood count (CBC) test is a common laboratory blood test we use to detect cancer and monitor cancer treatment. A CBC measures the number of blood cells circulating in the bloodstream. 
A complete blood count is a common blood test that's done for a variety of reasons: 1  To review your overall health. 2  To diagnose a medical condition. 3  To monitor a medical condition. 4  To monitor medical treatment. 5  Definition. 6  How you prepare. 
Guide. A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. A CBC also helps him or her diagnose conditions, such as anemia, infection, and many other disorders. A CBC test usually includes: 1  White blood cell (WBC, leukocyte) count. 2  White blood cells protect the body against infection. 3  If an infection develops, white blood cells attack and destroy the bacteria, virus, or other organism causing it. 4  White blood cells are bigger than red blood cells but fewer in number
Complete Blood Count (CBC) Overview. The complete blood count (CBC) is one of the most commonly ordered blood tests. To understand this test, it is important to know that blood consists of two major parts: plasma and cellular elements. The plasma is the part of the blood that is liquid which allows the blood to flow easily. 
The complete blood count (CBC) is one of the most commonly ordered blood tests. The complete blood count is the calculation of the cellular (formed elements) of blood. These calculations are generally determined by special machines that analyze the different components of blood in less than a minute. A major portion of the complete blood count is the measure of the concentration of white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets in the blood.
A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. Definition. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. 2  White blood cells, which fight infection.
The complete blood count (CBC) is often used as a broad screening test to determine an individual's general health status. It can be used to: 1  Screen for a wide range of conditions and diseases. 2  Help diagnose various conditions, such as anemia, infection, inflammation, bleeding disorder or leukemia, to name just a few. 1 The platelet count is the number of platelets in a person's sample of blood. 2  Mean platelet volume (MPV) may be reported with a CBC. 3  It is a calculation of the average size of platelets. 4  Platelet distribution width (PDW) may also
The complete blood count (CBC) is a test that evaluates the cells that circulate in blood. Blood consists of three types of cells suspended in fluid called plasma: white blood cells (WBCs), red blood cells (RBCs), and platelets (PLTs). 
A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test that is commonly ordered by doctors. A CBC is often ordered as part of a complete physical or when your doctor thinks you might have a certain condition, such as an infection. A CBC may also be done to check on levels of prescribed medications in the body. 