Muscle relaxants are commonly indicated for the treatment of two different types of conditions: spasticity from upper motor neuron syndromes and muscular pain or spasms from peripheral musculoskeletal diseases or injury such as low back pain. 
Muscle relaxants are medicines that are used to prevent and reduce muscle spasms and spasticity. Muscle spasms occur when there is an uncontrolled (involuntary) contraction of a group of muscles. The muscles usually shorten (contract) suddenly; this is often painful. Muscle relaxants are sometimes used to treat other conditions-for example, diazepam is sometimes used to treat difficulty with sleeping (insomnia). The rest of this leaflet only discusses the use of baclofen, dantrolene, diazepam, tizanidine, and cannabis extract when they are used as muscle relaxants.
For treating muscle spasms due to conditions like back or neck pain, muscle relaxants are typically used on an as-needed, short-term basis. Although these medications are sometimes given long-term for treating these kinds of conditions, there is little evidence to show that chronic use actually improves symptoms. Get an overview, full report, and cost comparison of 21 muscle relaxant options. The skeletal muscle relaxants are a diverse set of drugs that are used for treating muscle spasticity or spasms, which can cause pain and interfere with your functional ability.
Muscle relaxants are just one of the many types of medications that can be used to treat spasticity or spasms. Other medications that are sometimes used as muscle relaxants but don't carry FDA approval for this purpose include benzodiazepines, such as diazepam (Valium and generics), and botulinum toxin (Botox). Get an overview, full report, and cost comparison of 21 muscle relaxant options. The skeletal muscle relaxants are a diverse set of drugs that are used for treating muscle spasticity or spasms, which can cause pain and interfere with your functional ability.
Medications for Back Pain Video. Muscle relaxants are not really a class of drugs, but rather a group of different drugs that each has an overall sedative effect on the body. These drugs do not act directly on the muscles; rather they act centrally (in the brain) and are more of a total body relaxant. 1 Carisoprodol (Soma) . 2  This drug's dosage is 350mg every eight hours as needed for muscle spasm. 3  Soma is typically prescribed on a short-term basis and may be habit-forming, especially if used in conjunction with alcohol or other drugs that have a sedative effect. 4  Also see Pain Killer Addiction Treatment.
Muscle relaxant: Muscle relaxant is a term usually used to refer to skeletal muscle relaxants (drugs), which act on the central nervous system (CNS) to relax muscles. These drugs are often prescribed to reduce pain and soreness associated with sprains, strains, or other types of muscle injury. Some examples of commonly prescribed skeletal muscle relaxant medications include carisoprodol (Soma), cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril), and metaxalone (Skelaxin), which are taken in tablet form. Muscle relaxant drugs are only available by prescription in the U.S.
Typically, muscle relaxants are prescribed early in a course of back pain, on a short-term basis, to relieve low back pain associated with muscle spasms. There are several types of muscle relaxant medications that are commonly used to treat low back pain. 1  See: Pulled Back Muscle and Lower Back Strain. 1 Carisoprodol (Soma) . 2  This drug's dosage is 350mg every eight hours as needed for muscle spasm. 3  Soma is typically prescribed on a short-term basis and may be habit-forming, especially if used in conjunction with alcohol or other drugs that have a sedative effect. 4  Also see Pain Killer Addiction Treatment.
Muscle relaxants, which are also known as skeletal muscle relaxants, are a type of medication that is typically used to reduce or prevent muscle spasms or muscle spasticity that occurs as the result of some upper motor neuron syndromes. This group of medications do not actually act on the muscles themselves. Tizanidine. Tizanidine is another type of muscle relaxant that acts on the central nervous system. This medication is used to treat the acute symptoms of muscle spasms, as well as chronic muscle spasticity.