Phenylketonuria (PKU), or phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) deficiency, is a lifelong, inborn error of metabolism that causes an amino acid, known as phenylalanine (Phe) to build up in the blood. 
Phenylketonuria (commonly known as PKU) is an inherited disorder that increases the levels of a substance called phenylalanine in the blood. Phenylalanine is a building block of proteins (an amino acid) that is obtained through the diet. It is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners. The most severe form of this disorder is known as classic PKU. Infants with classic PKU appear normal until they are a few months old. Without treatment, these children develop permanent intellectual disability. Seizures, delayed development, behavioral problems, and psychiatric disorders are also common.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a condition in which the body cannot break down one of the amino acids found in proteins. PKU is considered an amino acid condition because people with PKU cannot break down the amino acid called phenylalanine. If left untreated, PKU can cause brain damage or even death. However, if the condition is detected early and treatment is begun, individuals with PKU can lead healthy lives.
Phenylketonuria (commonly known as PKU) is an inherited disorder that increases the levels of a substance called phenylalanine in the blood. Phenylalanine is a building block of proteins (an amino acid) that is obtained through the diet. The signs and symptoms of PKU vary from mild to severe. The most severe form of this disorder is known as classic PKU. Infants with classic PKU appear normal until they are a few months old. Without treatment, these children develop permanent intellectual disability.
Definition. Phenylketonuria (fen-ul-ke-toe-NU-re-uh), also called PKU, is a rare inherited disorder that causes an amino acid called phenylalanine to build up in your body. PKU is caused by a defect in the gene that helps create the enzyme needed to break down phenylalanine. 
Phenylketonuria Definition: Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a genetic disorder that is characterized by an inability of the body to utilize the essential amino acid, phenylalanine. 
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare genetic condition in which the body cannot break down the essential amino acid phenylalanine. Amino acids are the building blocks of protein. Phenylalanine is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners. 
Phenylketonuria (pronounced fen-l-kee-toh-NOOR-ee-uh), often called PKU, is an inherited disorder that that can cause intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDDs) if not treated. In PKU, the body can't process a portion of a protein called phenylalanine, which is in all foods containing protein. Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an inborn error of metabolism involving impaired metabolism of phenylalanine, one of the amino acids. Untreated PKU can lead to intellectual disability, seizures, and other serious medical problems.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a rare inherited condition in which there is a build up of phenylalanine in the body. PKU is a treatable condition. Phenylalanine is found in the protein part of the food we eat. The treatment is a low protein diet. This means that high protein foods such as meat, cheese, poultry, eggs and milk are not permitted.