Therefore, the two or multi-piece rings can remain on the obturator ring groove of the projectile without the use of glue, clips or other means of fasteners. The two or multi-pieces which comprise the obturator ring have stoppers to allow them to be positioned evenly on the obturator ring groove of a projectile. At the muzzle, the two or multi-pieces obturator ring will stay on or separate from the projectile body; thus eliminating ring hanging potentials (on projectile other than the ring groove) to minimize air disturbance. during projectile flight.
A fracture of the obturator ring indicates either a T-shaped or a column fracture (with the exception of the hemitransverse type of fracture). An intact obturator ring eliminates these fractures from consideration. A right obturator oblique radiograph of the pelvis best depicts nondisplaced fractures of the obturator ring (arrowheads). The iliopectineal line disruption (short arrow) signifies anterior column involvement. The pathognomonic spur sign (long arrow) of the both-column fracture is best appreciated on this view.
Another object of the present invention is to make a obturator ring in which that part of the ring, which is in contact with the valve body, is applied strongly against the valve body to provide greater imperviousness. 5. An obturator ring according to claim 1, wherein the ring-shaped seal has a ring-shaped base which extends outwards through a lip designed to be applied against the body of the valve, said seal having a substantially L-shaped section.
The obturator ring according to the present invention is shown in FIG. 3. This obturator ring consists of a split ring-shaped seal 6, working together with two elastic means, 7 and 8, applying the seal respectively against the valve body 1 and against one of the lateral faces 5' of the groove 5. 5. An obturator ring according to claim 1, wherein the ring-shaped seal has a ring-shaped base which extends outwards through a lip designed to be applied against the body of the valve, said seal having a substantially L-shaped section.
The obturator ring fractures appear as cortical discontinuities as well as areas of increased density where the bone fragments are overriding. The whole pelvis forms yet another, larger ring. Each of the sets of ribs form a ring with the sternum and spine. Each vertebra has a ring (also known as the spinal canal). The mandible and skull form a ring system, and the zygomatic arch is also considered a ring bone.
To this effect, a obturator ring is most commonly used. This obturator ring consists of a continuous circular seal. This circular seal is mounted in a groove, made on the edge of the flap. In the closed position, this circular seal comes into contact with a cylindrical bearing surface of the valve body. 5. An obturator ring according to claim 1, wherein the ring-shaped seal has a ring-shaped base which extends outwards through a lip designed to be applied against the body of the valve, said seal having a substantially L-shaped section.
Patents. Obturator ring comprising two or more pieces each being a little larger than semicircle of the projectile obturator ring groove circumference. Each piece at natural position has equal or smaller radius than the radius of the obturator ring groove of a projectile; therefore, each piece expands to be in... At the muzzle, the two or multi-pieces obturator ring will stay on or separate from the projectile body; thus eliminating ring hanging potentials (on projectile other than the ring groove) to minimize air disturbance. during projectile flight.
The obturator foramen (Latin foramen obturatum) is the large opening created by the ischium and pubis bones of the pelvis through which nerves and blood vessels pass. 1  1 Structure. It is bounded by a thin, uneven margin, to which a strong membrane is attached, and presents, superiorly, a deep groove, the obturator groove, which runs from the pelvis obliquely medialward and downward.
For other uses, see Obturator. Obturator rings are a specific type of piston ring used in World War I aero engines to compensate for warping of the cylinders. The rotary aircraft engines of World War I (engines with the crankshaft fixed to the airframe and rotating cylinders) were notoriously difficult to keep cool when operating. Thus, their very thin walled steel cylinders would become distorted to an unacceptable level.
FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of a projectile at the obturator ring groove. It depicts one ring installed while the second is about to be installed. FIG. 5 is a sketch which depicts SOR engaged and placed in the obturator ring groove of a projectile to be fired from a gun tube. At the muzzle, the two or multi-pieces obturator ring will stay on or separate from the projectile body; thus eliminating ring hanging potentials (on projectile other than the ring groove) to minimize air disturbance. during projectile flight.