Indo-Pacific sailfish (Istiophorus platypterus) are found in temperate and tropical ocean waters. These fish are often found near tropical areas, especially near the equatorial regions of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans. 
Atlantic sailfish. Atlantic sailfish are found in tropical and temperate parts of the Atlantic Ocean, though juveniles have been found in the Mediterranean Sea. Adults can weigh up to 60kg. Females grow larger than the males. Scientific name: Istiophorus albicans.
Sailfish. Sailfish (Istiophorus platypterus) are not unique to Florida; they are found nearly everywhere there is warm ocean water. However, Florida sailfishing is legendary, especially in the Fort Pierce, Miami, and Keys areas during colder months. Sailfish migrate southward as the weather chills in the north. The sailfish can reach speeds of sixty m.p.h. The average size of sailfish found in Florida is approximately six to seven feet and thirty to forty-five pounds. (The author Ernest Hemingway landed a nine-foot, one-inch sailfish off Key West in 1934.).
Sailfish (Istiophorus platypterus) are not unique to Florida; they are found nearly everywhere there is warm ocean water. However, Florida sailfishing is legendary, especially in the Fort Pierce, Miami, and Keys areas during colder months. The sailfish can reach speeds of sixty m.p.h. The average size of sailfish found in Florida is approximately six to seven feet and thirty to forty-five pounds. (The author Ernest Hemingway landed a nine-foot, one-inch sailfish off Key West in 1934.).
Two sailfish species have traditionally been recognized. No differences have been found in mtDNA, morphometrics or meristics between the two supposed species and most authorities now only recognized a single species, the sailfish (Istiophorus platypterus), found in warmer oceans around the world. For other uses, see Sailfish (disambiguation) . Sailfish are a genus Istiophorus of billfish living in warmer sections of all the oceans of the world. They are predominantly blue to gray in colour and have a characteristic erectile dorsal fin known as a sail, which often stretches the entire length of the back.
Compared to its cousins, the sailfish is relatively abundant. It is found world-wide in tropical and temperate seas. Like the other billfish, commercial mortality is the major risk to the health of the species and it is considered a food fish over most of its range. That attitude is changing. The high dorsal fin, the sail, makes the sailfish the easiest of the billfish to identify. Well, the swordfish is also rather distinct but it is in an entirely different family than the Istiophoridae family which includes the marlins, spearfish, and sailfish.