Swollen Lymph Nodes Related Diseases & Conditions. Medical conditions are often related to other diseases and conditions. Our doctors have compiled a list of ailments related to the topic of Swollen Lymph Nodes. These conditions may be a cause or symptom of Swollen Lymph Nodes or be a condition for which you may be at increased risk. Cellulitis Cellulitis is an acute spreading bacterial infection below the surface of the skin characterized by redness, warmth,...learn more ». Chagas Disease Chagas disease is an infection caused by the T. cruzi parasite. Symptoms of Chagas disease include rash, swollen lymph nodes,...learn more ». In This Article. Chagas Disease Article. 1  Chagas disease (kissing bug disease) facts.
You may notice other symptoms in conjunction with swollen lymph nodes, these symptoms are usually due to the underlying cause of infection and include: 1  Runny nose. 2  Fever. 3  Swelling in all the nodes of your body. 4  Swollen arm or leg, due to lymph system blockage. 5  Sore throat. 6  Hard, rapidly growing lymph nodes. If any of your lymph nodes are swollen you may have symptoms including: 1  Pain in the lymph nodes. 2  Tenderness to touch in the lymph nodes. 3  Noticeably large lymph nodes that may be larger than a bean.
When bacteria are recognized in the lymph fluid, the lymph nodes make more infection-fighting white blood cells, which can cause swelling. The swollen nodes can sometimes be felt in the neck, underarms and groin, according to the NLM. Lymphadenopathy is usually caused by infection, inflammation, or cancer. Diagnosis and treatment. Diseases of the lymphatic system are usually diagnosed when lymph nodes are enlarged, Hamrick noted. This may be discovered when the lymph nodes become enlarged enough to be felt (palpable lymphadenopathy) or are seen on imaging studies such as CT scans or MRIs.
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly a viral infection, such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infections, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible causes of swollen lymph nodes. They include: You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause.
Lymph nodes are filters in the lymphatic system that sieve out infectious material as well as toxins that come via the lymphatic channels. These may be affected commonly by certain diseases or conditions. The diseases or disorders of the lymphatic system and lymph nodes include lymphedema, lymphadenopathy and so forth. 
Lymphadenopathy (enlarged, swollen, or tender lymph nodes) is usually a sign of infection and is quite common in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and sarcoidosis. The |Wikipedia article on lymphadenopathy covers the range of causes. 
Incidence and Prevalence: The exact incidence of lymph node disorders is not known because recorded data usually relate to the associated disease, not to enlargement of nodes or lymphadenopathy. Lymphadenopathy is estimated to occur in 38% to 45% of children, primarily in response to infection (Kanwar). Surgical removal of lymph nodes to confirm the etiology of enlargement is another common practice when infection has been ruled out as a cause. History: Individuals with lymph node disorders may report lymph nodes that are tender, swollen, and hard. If an abscess has formed in the lymph node, it may feel rubbery.
The most common causes of swollen lymph nodes are viral infections, such as the common cold, and bacterial infections, such as strep throat. Immune system disorders and some types of cancer can also lead to swollen lymph nodes. The more common infectious causes of swollen lymph nodes include viral and bacterial infections. Some of these conditions caused by bacteria are associated with serious and potentially life-threatening complications if they are not treated with antibiotics:
Lymph nodes are located in groups, and each group drains a specific area of your body. You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause.
Swollen lymph nodes are not a disease but a symptom, usually of a controllable infection but sometimes of a more serious condition. The term lymphadenopathy refers to lymph nodes that are abnormal in size, shape, or number. In “localized” lymphadenopathy, lymph nodes in only one area are affected. A doctor should be consulted when certain symptoms are present. These symptoms include: 1  Swollen nodes for more than two weeks. 2  Weight loss. 3  Night sweats. 4  Long-lasting fever. 5  Fatigue. 6  Nodes that are hard, fixed to the skin or growing rapidly.