Use mycelium in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The mycelium is the vegetative part of a fungus. An example of a mycelium is a mass of threadlike tubes that branch out on a fungus. pl. -·lia. the thallus, or vegetative part, of a fungus, made of a mass or network of threadlike tubes. 
Mycelium as seen under a log. Mycelium is the vegetative part of a fungus, consisting of a mass of branching, thread-like hyphae. The mass of hyphae is sometimes called shiro, especially within the fairy ring fungi. Mycelium is an important food source for many soil invertebrates. Mycelium, like fungus, can be considered a mass noun, a word that can be either singular or plural. The term mycelia, though, like fungi, is often used as the preferred plural form. Sclerotia are compact or hard masses of mycelium.
mycelium. n, pl-lia (-lɪə). 1. (Botany) the vegetative body of fungi: a mass of branching filaments (hyphae) that spread throughout the nutrient substratum. [C19 (literally: nail of fungus): from myco- + Greek hēlos nail]. (maɪˈsi li əm). hypha-any of the threadlike filaments forming the mycelium of a fungus. sclerotium-compact usually dark-colored mass of hardened mycelium constituting a vegetative food-storage body in various true fungi; detaches when mature and can give rise to new growth. plant part, plant structure-any part of a plant or fungus
1 One to five weeks after the grass seeds germinate, the mycelium, or vegetative filaments of the fungus, migrate to the lower part of the stem. 2  Once excreted, the fungal mycelium [the mass of hyphae emanating from the fungus] grows into tiny spheres, about the size of a small pinhead. Example sentences. 1 
1. mycelium-the vegetative part of a fungus consisting of a mass of branching threadlike hyphae. fungus-an organism of the kingdom Fungi lacking chlorophyll and feeding on organic matter; ranging from unicellular or multicellular organisms to spore-bearing syncytia. hypha-any of the threadlike filaments forming the mycelium of a fungus. sclerotium-compact usually dark-colored mass of hardened mycelium constituting a vegetative food-storage body in various true fungi; detaches when mature and can give rise to new growth. plant part, plant structure-any part of a plant or fungus
: the mass of interwoven filamentous hyphae that forms especially the vegetative portion of the thallus of a fungus and is often submerged in another body (as of soil or organic matter or the tissues of a host); also: a similar mass of filaments formed by some bacteria (as streptomyces). — my·ce·li·al \-əl\ adjective. 
Noun. 1. mycelium-the vegetative part of a fungus consisting of a mass of branching threadlike hyphae. fungus-an organism of the kingdom Fungi lacking chlorophyll and feeding on organic matter; ranging from unicellular or multicellular organisms to spore-bearing syncytia. hypha-any of the threadlike filaments forming the mycelium of a fungus. sclerotium-compact usually dark-colored mass of hardened mycelium constituting a vegetative food-storage body in various true fungi; detaches when mature and can give rise to new growth.
Mycelium. Mycelium. (Science: microbiology) mass of hyphae that constitutes the vegetative part of a fungus (the conspicuous part in most cases is the fruiting body of fungi). Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page.
The vegetative part of a fungus, consisting of a network of fine white filaments (hyphae). Example sentences. 1  One to five weeks after the grass seeds germinate, the mycelium, or vegetative filaments of the fungus, migrate to the lower part of the stem. 2  Once excreted, the fungal mycelium [the mass of hyphae emanating from the fungus] grows into tiny spheres, about the size of a small pinhead.