In the body, DHEA is a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal glands. The body converts DHEA into hormones, including testosterone and estrogen. Natural DHEA levels peak at about 30 years, and then gradually decline with age. Many people take DHEA to replace the DHEA that is lost with age.
For adult males above the age of 19, the recommended daily dosage of DHEA is 50 mg, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. For females above the age of 19, the recommended daily dosage is 25 mg. The center recommends that females with anorexia and adrenal insufficiency take 50 mg of the hormone daily.
To improve bone density, doses of 50-200 milligrams of DHEA have been taken by mouth daily for up to two years. To treat cervical cancer, 150 milligrams of DHEA has been applied to the vagina daily for up to six months.
The effect of six months treatment with a 100 mg daily dose of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) on circulating sex steroids, body composition and muscle strength in age-advanced men and women. Morales AJ(1), Haubrich RH, Hwang JY, Asakura H, Yen SS.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a hormone produced by the body's adrenal glands. The body uses DHEA to make androgens and estrogens, the male and female sex hormones. DHEA levels peak at about age 25, then go down steadily as you get older.
Cautions. As cited by the University of Maryland Medical Center, a DHEA supplement is not recommended for persons under the age of 40, unless their DHEA levels are low. In women, levels below 130 mg/dl are considered low, and levels below 180 mg/dl are considered low in men.
The best dose for DHEA (dehydroepiandrosterone) for any use has not yet been determined. Because DHEA is a dietary supplement (not a drug) there is little information available to provide guidance about safe and effective DHEA dosages.
DHEA supplements are popular in the treatment of health conditions ranging from obesity to depression. Photo Credit health supplement pills image by weim from Fotolia.com. DHEA, or dehydroepiandrosterone, is a hormone produced by the body and secreted by the adrenal glands.