Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. It is usually illegal to DRIVE with one headlight out, but most motorcycles are designed to be RIDDEN with one light being for high beam and the other for low. Steve Y · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
· just now. Report Abuse. Well, you know it very well, it is illegal. When a car is not road-worthy and you drive, it is you are breaking law. Honestly, tell me how can you take a risk to drive a car without bumpers, no headlights, no indicator lights, no number plate and yet coming to us to for an answer. Really, it is frowned on for body shops to do this. But sometimes, the car has to be transported and the car is still in pieces. I worked in a body shop and had to drive a '06 mercedes 50 miles to a dealer. Like i said, you shouldn't do it, but sometimes you got to do what you need to do.
Traffic laws in each state contain statutes regarding nighttime driving and the appropriate use of headlights. Driving with poor visibility due to conditions, such as poor or non-working headlights is a main cause of nighttime accidents. 
Thanked 0 Times in 0 Posts. Hmm...well the reason why I even think it's okay is because there was this one guy who sent his lights to clearcorners.com and didn't have lights for a couple of weeks. I still see him from time to time without headlights running around town. Sounds like it's a hit and miss kind of thing. I think the answer is no since there's no signal lights in the front but I just want to double check because I've seen people do so in between projects. I'm swapping headlights with another member here so I won't have any for a couple of days.
· just now. Report Abuse. As long as the reflector behind the bulb is not damaged, the car is still legal to drive. However water will cause the bulb to blow very quickly, as a stop gap you can use cling film to cover the broken part of the head light. Ja. jason c · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
I suppose the correct answer would be to drive it to a dealer in daylight to get a new bulb fitted. But this doesnt work if you are miles from home and its dark when the bulb blows or if (as is usual) the dealer cant fit you in for a week. 
Only drive it on the day it can be remedied. Bare in mind that your headlights are also a requirement in the day during adverse weather (imo there is nothing worse than a numpty who doesn't use headlights in torrential rain!). With that in mind as long as the driving is to a repair garage all will be ok. Covers all the same stuff, but doesn't cover side or headlights. Was in relation to a track car which didn't have headlights at all. On a practical note, if you do get pulled by a plod, you'll poss get a rectification order to fix it.
I said that headlights and tail lights do not need to work in the day that is true. I said also that technically they do not need even to be fitted but if they are they must work for the MOT. Read it again. Please try and see this point, you have to try and think beyond the MOT, it's another subject altogether. The point I am making is that a car only needs to conform to MOT requirements for the duration of the test in order to pass. Whatever happens after you drive away, whether it be after one minute or 11 months would make it an MOT failure case, but the MOT certificate would still be valid for 12 months.
So since lights are fitted to the car in question (and it is not a case of one law in the MOT Testing Station and another on the road) you must concur that it would be illegal to drive in such a condition. The point I am making is that a car only needs to conform to MOT requirements for the duration of the test in order to pass. Whatever happens after you drive away, whether it be after one minute or 11 months would make it an MOT failure case, but the MOT certificate would still be valid for 12 months.