In Government. the First national government of the united states was the Articles of Confederation Actually the first National Government of the United States was the Second Continental C … ongress which governed during the Revolutionary War. The Articles were the first written gov't of the US. 
The government was formed in 1789, making the United States one of the world's first, if not the first, modern national constitutional republics. The United States government is based on the principle of federalism, in which power is shared between the federal government and state governments. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
The Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union was the first constitution of the United States. It was drafted by the Second Continental Congress from mid-1776 through late-1777, and ratification by all 13 states was completed in early 1781. The United States Constitution is the supreme law of the United States of America. The Constitution, originally comprising seven articles, delineates the national frame of government.
The government of the United States of America is the federal government of the republic of fifty states that constitute the United States, as well as one capital district, and several other territories. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
John Hanson was NOT the first president of the United States. He wasn't even the first President of the United States in Congress Assembled That was Samuel Huntington, who was president of the Continental Congress when Maryland ratified the Articles of Confederation putting them formally into effect. Hanson was the president of the first Continental Congress. The United States of America did not yet exist until, so there's no way that John Hanson was the first P
Columbia University 1996 The federal government of the United States was created by the Constitution, which went into operation in 1789 when the first Congress convened and George Washington took the oath of office as president.
George Washington was definitely not the first President of the United States. He was the first President of the United States under the Constitution we follow today. And the first seven Presidents are forgotten in history. Reference: Grant, George, The Forgotten Presidents (excerpted from The Patriot's Handbook). 
Answer by Trent Johnson. Confidence votes 45. the First national government of the united states was the Articles of Confederation. Actually the first National Government of the United States was the Second Continental Congress which governed during the Revolutionary War. The Articles were the first written gov't of the US
The full name of the republic is United States of America. No other name appears in the Constitution, and this is the name that appears on money, in treaties, and in legal cases to which it is a party (e.g. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.