Best Answer: An archipelago is a landform which consists of a chain or cluster of islands. Archipelagoes usually occur in the open sea; less commonly, a large land mass may neighbour them. Report Abuse. An archipelago is a chain or cluster of islands. The word archipelago literally means chief sea, from Greek arkhon (arkhi-) (leader) and pelagos (sea). The original example is the Aegean Islands in Greece: Cyclades Dodecanese and Sporades.
An archipelago (/ɑrkɨˈpɛləɡoʊ/ ark-i-PEL-ə-goh), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster or collection of islands. The word archipelago is derived from the Greek ἄρχι- – arkhi- (chief) and πέλαγος – pelagos (pélagos) sea through The italian. arcipelago Archipelagos may be found isolated in bodies of water or neighboring a large land mass. For example, Scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland which constitute an archipelago.
An archipelago is a group, chain or cluster of islands surrounded by a large body of water, usually the open sea. + 85 others found this useful. Ben Ward. Edit. Share to: Bayley Dole. 1,609 Contributions. Avid reader of American History books, previous AP Government and AP US History student. An archipelago is simply a chain of islands. Hawaii would qualify as one. Edit. Share to: Gregg Anderton. 1,474,796 Contributions. Community Manager who loves to wrench on cars, grow plants in the garden, remodel my home, and observe nature.
An Archipelago is a landform that is a group of many islands. Some of the most famous. archipelagos of the world are many of the islands around Japan, Hawaii and the British Islands. Most people think this type of landform is what you see on movies but that is not necessarily so. Canada has many archipelagos that are barren because of the cold. Another way an archipelago is formed is through the evaporation or movement of water. The higher part of land that was under water is now above water. This can happen in groups which makes the groups of islands. Erosion can also create the group of islands that we call archipelagos.
of Equatorial. Emeralds. Indonesia is often referred to as the world's largest archipelago, a name which aptly represents its 17,000 or so islands which span more than 5000 km (around 3,200 miles) eastward from Sabang in northern Sumatra to Merauke in Irian Jaya. 
The largest archipelagic state in the world by area and population is Indonesia. The archipelago with the most islands is the Swedish East Coast Archipelago, which contains the Stockholm Archipelago, which, in turn, connects to the world's second largest archipelago, the Archipelago Sea in Finland. Archipelagos may be found isolated in bodies of water or neighboring a large land mass. For example, Scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland which constitute an archipelago.
Report Abuse. An archipelago is a landform which consists of a chain or cluster of islands. Archipelagoes usually occur in the open sea; less commonly, a large land mass may neighbour them. Report Abuse. An archipelago is a chain or cluster of islands. The word archipelago literally means chief sea, from Greek arkhon (arkhi-) (leader) and pelagos (sea). The original example is the Aegean Islands in Greece: Cyclades Dodecanese and Sporades.
The Stockholm archipelago (Swedish: Stockholms skaergard) skärgård is the largest archipelago In, sweden and the-second largest archipelago in The Baltic (sea the largest being across The baltic In). finland 