Example Sentences Including 'noteworthy'. The ensuing days were chiefly noteworthy, in Anthony's mind, for lack of sleep. But noteworthy incidents were non-existent, and we gradually settled down into a state of wakeful boredom. `The report from Folkestone is not particularly noteworthy except for some bumph about British Rail's privatization. 
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of noteworthy from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. This is the British English definition of noteworthy. View American English definition of noteworthy. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for
That Old Scratch was Nelson's father was noteworthy enough. John Barleycorn by London, Jack View in context. It is noteworthy that these two phrases, contro alla fede and tutto fede, were omitted in the Testina edition, which was published with the sanction of the papal authorities. noteworthy. adjective remarkable, interesting, important, significant, extraordinary, outstanding, exceptional, notable None of these buildings are noteworthy for their architecture. normal, ordinary, pedestrian, commonplace, insignificant, unremarkable, run-of-the-mill, unexceptional.
Use noteworthy in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of noteworthy is something that is worth mentioning or deserves notice. An example of something noteworthy is a controversial quote from a president's speech. worthy of note; deserving notice; outstanding; remarkable; notable
That Old Scratch was Nelson's father was noteworthy enough. John Barleycorn by London, Jack View in context. It is noteworthy that these two phrases, contro alla fede and tutto fede, were omitted in the Testina edition, which was published with the sanction of the papal authorities. The Prince by Machiavelli, Nicolo View in context. 
Examples of NOTEWORTHY. 1  He gave several noteworthy performances during his short career. 2  Nothing noteworthy happened that evening. 3  Her art is noteworthy for its great quality and beauty. 
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. This is the British English definition of noteworthy. View American English definition of noteworthy. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for
Pronunciation: /ˈnəʊtˌwəːðɪnəs/. Example sentences. 1  Well, if you feel the same, then you're probably going to want to check out Man on Fire, a good flick that is kept from noteworthiness by some serious problems. 
it is noteworthy that → es notable que ..., es de notar que ... noteworthy. adjective remarkable, interesting, important, significant, extraordinary, outstanding, exceptional, notable None of these buildings are noteworthy for their architecture. normal, ordinary, pedestrian, commonplace, insignificant, unremarkable, run-of-the-mill, unexceptional.