In the current market, we’ve seen rates as low as £50 +VAT, and as high as £180 +VAT for dedicated contractor accountants. Interestingly, the average cost of contractor accounting has not risen in line with inflation over the past decade.
Your accountant can work this out for you and then you can calculate it in terms of an equivalent number of days/hours. So for example you may find that your company costs are the equivalent of 10 days pay, so you would deduct another 40 hours off the 1536 hours when calculating your hourly rate.
1 Hourly rates for an outside bookkeeping service run $20-$50 an hour, depending on complexity and location. 2  Usually you can hire a trained, experienced bookkeeper on a contract basis for $30-$40 an hour, but there can be a minimum monthly charge of $100-$150 for small businesses that don't require a lot of work hours.
Specialist accountants, providing services to contractors and self-employed individuals for 10 years. Expert advice with great online software. Real-time visibility of your finances and unlimited support from dedicated accountants. Everything you need from an accountant and more. Only £69pm.
1 Some accountants will complete one director’s return for free, whereas others will charge a one-off fee. 2  IR35 contract reviews – some accountants provide a ‘free’ review service (subject to 1 or 2 reviews per year), whereas others charge a fixed-fee for an in-house or third-party review.
1 The table above compares ‘standard’ monthly accountancy packages which must include as a minimum: Preparation of your company’s Annual Accounts, filing of quarterly VAT returns, and payroll processing for the director. 2  We’ve covered the typical duties of a contractor accountant here.
1 A typical salary for an in-house bookkeeper in the United States runs $30,400-$39,898 according to Salary.com. 2  The average annual pay for a bookkeeping account executive is $68,294, or $57,600 for a payroll manager, according to BookkeeperList.com.
However, for a stress-free life as a contractor, you must hire the right accountant. For IT contractors, there really is nothing worse than dealing with an accountant who is a poor communicator, or even worse, has substandard accounting skills.
1 Accountants charge $150-$400 or more an hour, depending on the type of work, the size of the firm and its location. 2  You'll pay lower rates for routine work done by a less-experienced associate or lesser-trained employee, such as $30-$50 for bookkeeping services. 3  An accountant's total fee depends on the project.