Original conversation. User: Stimulates digestion of food when the body is in a state of rest (Points: 4) Brain Sympathetic nervous system Parasympathetic nervous system None of the above Weegy: The answer is 3. Parasympathetic nervous system. Question and answer. Stimulates digestion of food when the body is in a state of rest (Points: 4) Brain Sympathetic nervous system Parasympathetic nervous system None of the above.
1 The churning action of the stomach muscles physically breaks down the food. 2  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 3  The enzyme pepsin is responsible for protein breakdown. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner. The cardia is the first portion of the stomach and is where food content passes from the esophagus into the stomach. The acids and enzymes referred to as the gastric juices are manufactured in the cardia.
Mechanical digestion is the physical breakdown of food and is done primarily in the mouth and in the stoma … ch. Chemical digestion is the actual absorption of the nutrients coming from food into the body. This is done primarily in the small intestine. Yes a body be at the state of rest as well as at state of motion at same time. A passenger moving in a bus is in state of motion with respect to an observer standing outside a … t road and he is in state of motion with respect to anther passenger traveling in the same bus. 7 people found this useful.
But when you get the fight or flight chemicals because of a food or drug stress and you don’t run them off, it’s a ticket to agitation, panic, foul moods, and eventually ill health and/or weight gain. The sympathetic system’s activity breaks down the body when stress hormones like adrenaline and cortisol run. Its biological opposite is the parasympathetic system of nerves. This is the “rest and digest” system. When parasympathetic activity dominates, healing and regeneration occur. The body performs activities like digesting, detoxifying, eliminating, and building immunity.
The parasympathetic nervous system is responsible for the process of digestion. So, when a person is relaxed, unstressed, and even at rest, that is the best time to eat because the body has no other demands on it and can turn on all the processes that involve good digestion. The parasympathetic nervous system is the one that makes you relax, its nickname is the 'rest and digest' system. Yes a body be at the state of rest as well as at state of motion at same time. A passenger moving in a bus is in state of motion with respect to an observer standing outside a … t road and he is in state of motion with respect to anther passenger traveling in the same bus. 7 people found this useful.
Function of the stomach. 1  The stomach is J-shaped and it can expand to temporarily store food. 2  Partial digestion of the food takes place here. 3  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner. The cardia is the first portion of the stomach and is where food content passes from the esophagus into the stomach. The acids and enzymes referred to as the gastric juices are manufactured in the cardia.
Most people have heard of the “fight or flight” response of the nervous system, the way in which the body reacts to stress or danger. Many, however, have never heard of the “rest and digest” response. This system activates the more tranquil functions of the body; those that help maintain a healthy, long-term balance. The parasympathetic nervous system (“rest and digest”) helps produce a state of equilibrium in the body. Both are part of the greater Autonomic Nervous System, responsible for involuntary and reflexive functions
The stomach is not the only part of your digestive system that absorbs food but rather is a part of the digestive system and important for churning food into a consistency that is easier to digest for the rest of your intestines. The cardia is the first portion of the stomach and is where food content passes from the esophagus into the stomach. The acids and enzymes referred to as the gastric juices are manufactured in the cardia.