Gray matter. Brain tissue is made up of cell bodies (gray matter) and the filaments that extend from the cell bodies ( white matter ). The density of cells (volume of gray matter) in a particular region of the brain appears to correlate positively with various abilities and skills. 
The brain contains both gray matter and white matter. The gray matter is made up up of the neurons that have non-myelinated axons. The white matter is made up of neurons that have myleniated axons. The myelin sheath is white. The primary thinking, perceiving and cognitive functions of the brain happen on in the gray matter of the brain.
Grey matter is distinguished from white matter, in that grey matter contains numerous cell bodies and relatively few myelinated axons, while white matter is composed chiefly of long-range myelinated axon tracts and contains relatively very few cell bodies. The color difference arises mainly from the whiteness of myelin.rey matter contains most of the brain's neuronal cell bodies. The grey matter includes regions of the brain involved in muscle control, and sensory perception such as seeing and hearing, memory, emotions, speech, decision making, and self-control.
White matter is composed of bundles of myelinated nerve cell projections (or axons), which connect various grey matter areas (the locations of nerve cell bodies) of the brain to each other, and carry nerve impulses between neurons. Myelin acts as an insulator, increasing the speed of transmission of all nerve signals.hite matter tissue of the freshly cut brain appears pinkish white to the naked eye because myelin is composed largely of lipid tissue veined with capillaries. Its white color in prepared specimens is due to its usual preservation in formaldehyde.
Grey matter contains most of the brain's neuronal cell bodies. The grey matter includes regions of the brain involved in muscle control, and sensory perception such as seeing and hearing, memory, emotions, speech, decision making, and self-control. The grey matter in the spinal cord is split into three grey columns.
White matter is a component of the central nervous system, in the brain and superficial spinal cord, and consists mostly of glial cells and myelinated axons that transmit signals from one region of the cerebrum to another and between the cerebrum and lower brain centers. White matter tissue of the freshly cut brain appears pinkish white to the naked eye because myelin is composed largely of lipid tissue veined with capillaries. Its white color in prepared specimens is due to its usual preservation in formaldehyde.
The central nervous system is made up of two types of tissue: the grey matter and the white matter. The grey matter is mainly composed of neuronal cell bodies and unmyelinated axons. Axons are the processes that extend from neuronal cell bodies, carrying signals between those bodies. In the grey matter, these axons are mainly unmyelinated, meaning they are not covered by a whitish-colored, fatty protein called myelin.
Gray matter: The cortex of the brain, which contains nerve cell bodies. The gray matter is so named because it is darker than the white matter, the part of the brain that contains myelinated nerve fibers. 
Gray matter or grey matter is a type of neural tissue which is found in the brain and spinal cord. It is named after its distinctive brownish-gray color, in contrast with white matter, another type of neural tissue which appears white because it is coated in myelin sheathes.
To return to the exercise, close this browser window. Grey Matter and White Matter The CNS has two kinds of tissue: grey matter and white matter, Grey matter, which has a pinkish-grey color in the living brain, contains the cell bodies, dendrites and axon terminals of neurons, so it is where all synapses are. White matter is made of axons connecting different parts of grey matter to each other. 