While a lot of people may disagree about the exact amount of water you should drink each day, and that your needs will differ from others with different body types. While no specific measurement will fit all people, I consulted Dr. Pamila Brar to get some basic guidelines. In a healthy adult, the kidneys can filter and excrete 15 liters of water a day. So you are unlikely to get too much water, provided you don't drink an enormous amount at one time.
Learn how much water you should drink every day. You need half of your body weight in ounces of water daily. This is the number most individuals recognize and aspire to for their daily water intake. A good rule for drinking the right amount of water is to drink one glass of water each hour. An average person should drink this amount of water daily. It is the recommended daily water intake amount to drink 12 glasses of water. If you drink alcohol, you should drink at least an equal amount of water. Drinking a good amount of water could lower your risks of a heart attack
Health experts say that the average person should drink eight 8-ounce (236.6-mL) glasses of water daily. Exactly how much water you should drink each day can depend on how big you are, however. Some healthcare professionals recommend drinking half an ounce (14.8 mL) per 1 pound (0.45 kg) of body weight. For example, if you weigh 150 pounds (68 kg), you should drink 75 ounces (2.2 liters) of water daily. Other factors that can affect how much water you should drink daily include your physical activity level, the climate where you live, your diet and certain other health or medical factors. I drink 150-180 ounces of water a day, about 1.25 gallons. But I train for mixed martial arts, so I need a lot of water. Drinking water is one of the healthiest things you can consume daily. If you don't like it, I suggest you stop drinking the soda and learn to like water.
The body loses 2.5 percent of body water every day, and this rate goes up with exercise and sport. The daily water intake calculator factors in the daily activity level to counter the body water lost during exercise. It is recommended that you drink 16 ounces of water for every pound of body weight lost during exercise.
Experts say that you should drink at least eight glasses of water every day; a glass of water is about 8 ounces US or about .236 milliliters. That estimate assumes that your environment is normally cool, you are about 150 pounds or about 68 kilograms, and exercise in some form, about 20 minutes a day. Recent studies have revealed that there is no set requirement of water per day. You should drink when you are thirsty. If your urine is white or slightly yellow, it's a good indication that you are hydrated. But every individual has different water consumption requirements and it is difficult to apply a general rule.
So how much fluid does the average, healthy adult living in a temperate climate need? The Institute of Medicine determined that an adequate intake (AI) for men is roughly about 13 cups (3 liters) of total beverages a day. The AI for women is about 9 cups (2.2 liters) of total beverages a day. 
It is: Half your weight (in pounds) is how many ounces of water you should consume every day. So, for example, if you weigh 180 pounds, your goal would be to drink 90 ounces of water per day. It's simple, it's easy to remember, and it seems to work for most people. 
The daily water intake Calculator-Find out the recommended water intakeThe daily water intake calculator makes use of scientific calculations and algorithms to accurately arrive at the recommended daily water intake keeping in mind your activity level and body weight. The daily water intake calculator factors in the daily activity level to counter the body water lost during exercise. It is recommended that you drink 16 ounces of water for every pound of body weight
Daily Water Intake Calculator What is your activity level: What is your body weight in pounds: Use this recommended daily water intake calculator to find out how much water you should drink everyday based upon your activity level and your body weight. The daily water intake calculator factors in the daily activity level to counter the body water lost during exercise. It is recommended that you drink 16 ounces of water for every pound of body weight
Water makes up more than half of your body weight and it is essential to drink the recommended glasses of water to avoid dehydration and for the normal functioning of the body. It is also a well known fact that drinking the recommended daily intake of water can reduce the chances of heart disease and kidney problems. The daily water intake calculator factors in the daily activity level to counter the body water lost during exercise. It is recommended that you drink 16 ounces of water for every pound of body weight