Merkabah, also spelled Merkaba, is the divine light vehicle allegedly used by ascended masters to connect with and reach those in tune with the higher realms. Mer means Light. Ka means Spirit. Ba means Body. In modern esoteric teachings, it is taught that the MerKaBa is an interdimensional vehicle consisting of two equally sized, interlocked tetrahedra of light with a common center, where one tetrahedron points up and the other down.
2014. My theory about what a MerKaBa is, why all humans have one and what it is used for. What qualifies me to create a video like this....I am a self taught shaman, over 6000 hours of study about spiritual philosophy's. 
A Merkaba Star, or Mer-ka-bah Healing Crystal, carries the meaning and energy of a vehicle of Divine Light which is used by Seekers, Healers and Realm Walkers-the Masters-to travel into the Astral realms and thereby connect with the higher realm beings of Light. It is a tool for Ascension. 
Merkaba. The merkaba (sometimes spelled merkavah and, or merkabah) is a vehicle of ascension. It was believed in ancient times, and even written about by the Hebrews, that the merkavah could be turned on by certain principles in meditation. 
Related pages: Merkaba. In order to explain what the Merkaba is we must first generally explain about the flow of energy and energy fields that surround the human body. The first definition refers to the Prana or Chi - This is the Life force. 
Merkaba is another name for one's Light Body. Part of full consciousness, when spiritual, astral and physical bodies are integrated. The Merkaba allows self to shrink to baseball size and to travel anywhere, instantly. When the MerKaBa is activated it forms a counter-rotating field of spiritual light which creates a dimensional gateway for the Light body to stabilize within the physical body and for its other structures such as the Chakra’s to activate and stabilize as well.
Merkaba The word Merkaba is actually composed of three separate words: Mer, which means light, Ka, which means spirit and Ba, which means Body. Put together, these three words connote the union of spirit with body, surrounded by light. Used in meditation, the Merkaba can become a source of power and enlightenment. It can help a person realize his full potential and connect with the goodness in him, as well as the higher being. This field of light, love and goodwill can also extend to others, thereby enveloping them in the same healing energy.
The word Merkaba or Merkava-Hebrew 'Chariot' or 'to ride an animal, in a chariot' - is used in the Bible (Ezekiel 1:4-26) to refer to the throne-chariot of God, the four-wheeled vehicle driven by four Cherubim, each of which has four wings and four faces (of a man, lion, ox, and eagle). Four means 'time' in alchemy. In modern esoteric teachings, it is taught that the MerKaBa is an interdimensional vehicle consisting of two equally sized, interlocked tetrahedra of light with a common center, where one tetrahedron points up and the other down.
Merkabah / Merkavah mysticism (or Chariot mysticism) is a school of early Jewish mysticism, c. 100 BCE – 1000 CE, centered on visions such as those found in the Book of Ezekiel chapter 1, or in the hekhalot (palaces) literature, concerning stories of ascents to the heavenly palaces and the Throne of God. 
Merkaba Prana Sphere gold Merkaba Prana Sphere Silver Merkaba Prana Sphere is the most accurate representation of the Merkaba energy field. In order to explain what the Merkaba is, we must first generally explain the flow of energy and energy fields that surround the human body. The first definition refers to the Prana or Chi-This is the Life force. This unseen energy exists everywhere in the universe in great quantities.