How to Block or Unblock calls from a number on Motorola Moto E. Block calls from a number. To block incoming calls from a number on Motorola Moto E, follow these steps: Note: To block any incoming call that is not added to the reject list, touch the red Phone icon and drag it to the left. To block the call but provide a message, touch Reject call with message and drag up. From any Home screen, tap Phone. Note: You will receive a message notifying you when a call has been rejected. Unblock a number. To allow incoming calls from a number you previously blocked on Motorola Moto E, follow these steps: From any Home screen, tap Phone. If necessary, tap Keypad. Tap the Menu key. Tap Call settings. Tap Call rejection.
Learn how to block unwanted calls from a number,follow these steps: Note: To block any incoming call that is not added to the reject list, touch the red Phone icon and drag it to the left. To block the call but provide a message, touch Reject call with message and drag up. 1. From the Home screen, Touch Phone. 2. 
Unblock a number. To allow incoming calls from a number you previously blocked on Motorola Moto E, follow these steps: From any Home screen, tap Phone. If necessary, tap Keypad. Tap the Menu key. Tap Call settings. Note: You will receive a message notifying you when a call has been rejected. Unblock a number. To allow incoming calls from a number you previously blocked on Motorola Moto E, follow these steps: From any Home screen, tap Phone. If necessary, tap Keypad. Tap the Menu key. Tap Call settings. Tap Call rejection.
Once you have establed that you want to block or reject the call in future, then open your normal Dialler App. Then go to Logs and find the number you want to block. Long press on the number and select Add to reject list. Reject or block incoming calls / sales calls. If you get tired of receiving sales calls or want to block a particular number, then you can set up auto call rejects on your device.
You have the option to block Caller ID either temporarily or permanently. To block your number from being displayed temporarily for a specific call: 1  Dial *67. 2  Enter the number you wish to call (including area code). 3  Tap the Call button. 4  The words Private, Anonymous, or some other indicators will appear on the recipient's phone instead of your mobile number. 
To divert the calls from certain callers to voicemail, you may follow these steps: 1  Start People app (or Contacts app) in your Moto G, Moto E or Moto X. 2  Open the contact you want to block. 3  Tap menu button (3 vertical dots) as shown below. 4  Tap “ All calls to voicemail ” to check it. 
Luckily, there are numerous methods that block a number from Motorola Moto E. Hope these can help you to block calls on Motorola Moto E: Method 1: Tap the icon that says “Phone” on your Home screen. Tap the entry for the number you want to block under “logs.”. Tap the menu button on your Motorola Moto E. Select add to “reject list.”
Some weeks ago, a Springfield friend made me a phone and asked “how to block a phone number on the Motorola Moto E”. Then the method about Motorola Moto E found on the Internet for everyone to share. To block calls on Motorola Moto E, follow these steps: Method 1: Tap the icon that says “Phone” on your Home screen. Tap the entry for the number you want to block under “logs.”. Tap the menu button on your Motorola Moto E. Select add to “reject list.”. Method 2: If your Motorola Moto E doesnt have an inbuilt call blocking feature or if it does but you find it lacking, you can choose one from the many third-party call blocking apps on the Google Play Store.
block a number. This is a discussion on block a number within the Motorola Backflip forums, part of the Motorola Android Phones category; on all my other phones, i had a black list option to block numbers from ringing or texting my phone. i'd get voicemails, but no ... Results 1 to 4 of 4. 