Clindamycin (Cleocin) Dosage. Clindamycin comes in 150 milligram (mg) and 300 mg capsules. You should receive no more than 4,800 mg of clindamycin in a day, and that dose is normally only for people receiving clindamycin via injection into the thigh.
INDICATIONS. Clindamycin is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Clindamycin is also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci, pneumococci, and staphylococci.
Clindamycin is indicated for the treatment of severe infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive aerobic organisms, staphylococci (penicillinase / and non-penicillinase producing), streptococci (with the exception of Streptococcus faecalis) and pnuemonicocci or by susceptible anaerobic organisms.
Clindamycin is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections. It is an antibiotic that works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for virus infections (e.g., common cold, flu).
Uses. Clindamycin is used to treat a wide variety of serious bacterial infections. It is an antibiotic that works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic only treats bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu).
Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules, USP are also indicated in the treatment of seri­ous infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci, pneumococci, and staphylococci.
A: Clindamycin is an antibiotic that is used to treat serious infections caused by bacteria. Common side effects of clindamycin include changes in bowel habits, nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, joint pain, rash, and itching.
Clindamycin is used to treat certain types of bacterial infections, including infections of the lungs, skin, blood, female reproductive organs, and internal organs. Clindamycin is in a class of medications called lincomycin antibiotics. It works by slowing or stopping the growth of bacteria.
Clindamycin is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria.