Treatment may be initiated with a dose of 0.5 mg three times daily. Depending on the response, the dose may be increased at intervals of 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day. Slower titration to the dose levels greater than 4 mg/day may be advisable to allow full expression of the pharmacodynamic effect of XANAX. Panic Disorder. The successful treatment of many panic disorder patients has required the use of XANAX at doses greater than 4 mg daily. In controlled trials conducted to establish the efficacy of XANAX in panic disorder, doses in the range of 1 to 10 mg daily were used. The mean dosage employed was approximately 5 to 6 mg daily
The reason Xanax and other benzodiazepines are very popular is that they have almost completely replaced barbiturate use. Unlike benzodiazepines barbiturates are very dangerous and a lethal dose occurs at as little as 1 gram and 4 grams almost always result in death. Best Answer: INERSIAS is completely wrong. Here are the FACTS, not my personal belief of a lethal dose. And just because a person falls asleep from taking Xanax is not the same as a dangerous or near-
Greetings. In a study the average lethal dose for Xanax has been found as 22 mg. But death can occur at 10 mg single dose. With alcohol, there is further central nervous system depression and the lethal dose can be far less. Though for it (combination and alcohol)data are not available. Please read this study; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1884537/. Please feel free for your follow up questions.
The LD50 (median lethal dose) is a measurement of acute toxicity of a substance that shows the dose required to kill half the members of a tested population after a specified test duration. There is not really any data on the LD50 for humans so typically we come up with an estimation by using the LD50 for an animal. Best Answer: INERSIAS is completely wrong. Here are the FACTS, not my personal belief of a lethal dose. And just because a person falls asleep from taking Xanax is not the same as a dangerous or near-
& I found this about the dosage for Xanax. Xanax taken for anxiety disorder: The usual starting dose of Xanax is 0.25 to 0.5 milligram taken 3 times a day. The dose may be increased every 3 to 4 days to a maximum daily dose of 4 milligrams, divided into smaller doses.
Anxiety Disorders and Transient Symptoms of Anxiety. Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg given three times daily. The dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, at intervals of 3 to 4 days, to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. Panic Disorder. The successful treatment of many panic disorder patients has required the use of XANAX at doses greater than 4 mg daily. In controlled trials conducted to establish the efficacy of XANAX in panic disorder, doses in the range of 1 to 10 mg daily were used. The mean dosage employed was approximately 5 to 6 mg daily
Xanax taken for panic disorder: The usual starting dose of regular Xanax is 0.5 milligram 3 times a day. This dose can be increased by 1 milligram a day every 3 or 4 days. You may be given a dose from 1 up to a total of 10 milligrams, according to your needs. Xanax taken for anxiety disorder: The usual starting dose of Xanax is 0.25 to 0.5 milligram taken 3 times a day. The dose may be increased every 3 to 4 days to a maximum daily dose of 4 milligrams, divided into smaller doses.
The typical dose is 5 to 6 milligrams a day. If you're taking Xanax XR, the usual starting dose is 0.5 to 1 milligram once a day taken in the morning. Depending on your response, the dose may be gradually increased by no more than 1 milligram every 3 or 4 days. The usual effective dose is 3 to 6 milligrams a day. Xanax taken for anxiety disorder: The usual starting dose of Xanax is 0.25 to 0.5 milligram taken 3 times a day. The dose may be increased every 3 to 4 days to a maximum daily dose of 4 milligrams, divided into smaller doses.
But I personally believe 20 mg's would be a lethal dose for average person. Be careful do not try this at home. I would even say 12mg's with a person with no tolerance may be lethal. Source(s): Personal expierience pharmacology industry upjohn (makers of xanax). Best Answer: INERSIAS is completely wrong. Here are the FACTS, not my personal belief of a lethal dose. And just because a person falls asleep from taking Xanax is not the same as a dangerous or near-