Reckless driving is a misdemeanor in the state of California. According to California Vehicle Code Section 23103, “a person who drives a vehicle upon a highway in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.”.
Reckless driving as a misdemeanor can be punishable by fine and/or incarceration in a country jail for period of less than one year. Usually when a person is arrested for a misdemeanor charge of reckless driving, he will be arrested and would have to post a bail bond. Only then can he stay at home. However, on the date that the court hearing is fixed for, the person has to be present in court along with his lawyer.
In Virginia, reckless driving is a Class 1 misdemeanor. There are four classifications of criminal misdemeanors in Virginia. Class 4 and Class 3 misdemeanors are only finable criminal offenses. Class 2 misdemeanors are punishable by confinement in jail for not more than six months and/or a fine of not more than $1,000.
Reckless driving, whether the charge is based on excessive speed or results from an accident, is a crime in Virginia. There are numerous out of state drivers and some Virginia drivers who are shocked to learn traveling on a highway at 81 miles per hour in a 70 mile per hour zone may be charged as reckless driving.
California statute defines reckless driving as driving with “willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property”. Reckless driving is a misdemeanor. If the prosecution can prove you drove in such a manner, you may be facing jail time.
You can be charged with reckless driving on a public road, or in a parking lot, garage, or other areas open to the public vehicle traffic. Reckless driving is a traffic misdemeanor punishable by up to 30 days in jail and/or a fine of up to $200.
However, there are some traffic offenses that are termed as misdemeanors or felonies and are often punished by fines, revoking or suspending the driving license or even jail time. In most states, reckless driving is a misdemeanor because the way a person drives can cause injury to another person or damage property.
VA Reckless Driving Penalties. A Reckless Driving charge is considered a Class 1 Misdemeanor under Virginia law. 1  You are facing the possibility of up to one year in jail, a 6 month license suspension, and fines that could cost you up to $2500.