Gluten is actually a protein that is found in wheat, barley, and rye grains, which is why it's important if your child has nonceliac gluten sensitivity or celiac disease that you need to read the food labels and know exactly what a gluten-free food is. Well gluten sensitivity is when your child has similar symptoms to celiac, but it's not an autoimmune response. So it's where they have sort of upset stomach or gas when they eat foods with gluten, and they're intolerant to it.
People with celiac disease are diagnosed through specific blood and bowel tests. Those with the disease have a higher risk for anemia, osteoporosis, severe intestinal damage and gastrointestinal cancers. Unlike celiac disease, gluten sensitivity walks a blurry diagnostic line. Mounting evidence now suggests the number of people who have nonceliac gluten sensitivity may outnumber those who have full-blown celiac disease. Celiac disease is a genetic condition that damages the lining of the small intestine and prevents it from absorbing nutrients from food. The damage is attributed to an autoimmune reaction to eating gluten, a protein found in wheat, barley, rye and possibly oats
It is not celiac disease, a far less common autoimmune condition that can destroy the small intestine. Indeed, no one has conclusively identified a physical explanation for gluten sensitivity and its array of symptoms. 
Celiac Disease (Gluten Intolerance). The inability to digest and absorb proteins called gluten found in wheat, rye, and barley. Celiac disease causes damage to the lining of the small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients. Also called celiac sprue, gluten intolerance, and nontropical sprue. PubMed Health Glossary. 
In celiac disease, eating a protein in wheat, rye, and barley called gluten triggers inflammation in the small intestines. The problem is that little is known about NCGS, from how much gluten is needed to trigger symptoms to whether gluten is even the culprit, Seidner says. Both conditions have intestinal symptoms, such as bloating and pain, and symptoms outside the digestive tract, such as fatigue. A small percentage of people with irritable bowel syndrome have either celiac disease or NCGS as well
Thanks to the work of pioneers like Dr. Hadjivassiliou, gluten sensitivity continues to be recognized as something distinct from celiac disease. Many doctors and celiac patients believe that gluten sensitivity and celiac disease are the same thing. The truth of the matter is that gluten sensitivity is not a disease. It is a state of genetics. 
Non-celiac gluten sensitivity is often interchanged with gluten intolerance. There are cases where symptoms are less severe, which may be considered gluten sensitivity, whereas severe cases would be labeled as gluten intolerance due to the intensity and length of time symptoms last. Celiac.com Sponsors: Celiac.com 11/13/2012 - Going gluten-free seems to be the newest dietary trend that many people are following, even if it is not mandatory for one’s health. This trend was brought on by an increased number of cases of celiac disease, and gluten sensitivity, also referred to as
Symptoms include chronic diarrhea, weight loss and fatigue, but in some cases the disorder can be asymptomatic (no symptoms). Celiac disease is caused by a reaction to gliadin-a gluten protein found in wheat, barley, rye, and sometimes oats. The inflammation and destruction of the inner lining of the small intestine in celiac disease is caused by an allergic reaction to gluten in the diet. This chronic digestive disorder leads to the malabsorption of minerals and nutrients. 
Gluten-related disorders/gliadin-related disorders include celiac disease and non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS). Formerly, also gluten intolerance has been used as umbrella term, and the expression gluten sensitivity has been used either as umbrella term or for NCGS. 