Following on from the No votes by the Dutch and the French in relation to the Constitutional Treaty, a new Treaty was proposed, commonly known as the Lisbon Treaty or Reform Treaty. This Treaty amended both the Treaty on the European Union, and also created the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union. The European Economic Community (EEC) was established by the Treaty of Rome in 1957. The purpose behind the EEC was to create a union of European States which had common economic goals. By joining together in this way, the Member States sought to achieve:
Treaty of Nice. In February 2003 the Treaty of Nice came into force. The main purpose of the Treaty was to facilitate the major EU enlargement (10 new states) which was to follow. Ten countries joined the EU in 2004: Poland, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Malta and Cyprus. 
The Lisbon Treaty introduces the Charter of Fundamental Rights into European primary law. The six chapters of the Charter cover the following aspects: individual rights related to dignity, freedoms, equality, solidarity, rights linked to citizenship status and justice. 
The Treaty of Lisbon was signed on 13 December 2007 in Lisbon (given Portugal held the EU Council's Presidency at the time) by the EU Heads of State and Government, and must be ratified by all twenty-seven Member States before it can enter into force. The citizens of Ireland, the only country which held a referendum on the Treaty, rejected it in a vote by 53.4% to 46.6% on 13 June. The European Council on 19 and 20 June 2008 agreed to Ireland’s suggestion to return to the issue at its meeting of 15 October 2008 in order to consider the way forward.
The Treaty of Lisbon (initially known as the Reform Treaty) is an international agreement which amends the two treaties which form the constitutional basis of the European Union (EU). The Treaty of Lisbon was signed by the EU member states on 13 December 2007, and entered into force on 1 December 2009. It amends the Maastricht Treaty (1993), which also is known as the Treaty on European Union, and the Treaty of Rome (1958), which also is known as the Treaty establishing the European Community (TEEC). Hence, the voting powers of the member states are based on their population, and are no longer dependent on a negotiable system of voting points. The reform of qualified majority voting (QMV) in the Council was one of the main issues in the negotiation of the Lisbon Treaty.
The Treaty of Lisbon (also known as the Reform Treaty) will amend the Treaty on European Union (TEU, Maastricht) and the Treaty establishing the European Community (TEC, Rome), the latter being renamed Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) in the process. The citizens of Ireland, the only country which held a referendum on the Treaty, rejected it in a vote by 53.4% to 46.6% on 13 June. The European Council on 19 and 20 June 2008 agreed to Ireland’s suggestion to return to the issue at its meeting of 15 October 2008 in order to consider the way forward.
At Lisbon, the Treaty of Rome was renamed to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Hence, the voting powers of the member states are based on their population, and are no longer dependent on a negotiable system of voting points. The reform of qualified majority voting (QMV) in the Council was one of the main issues in the negotiation of the Lisbon Treaty.
Q&A: The Lisbon Treaty. The Lisbon Treaty became law on 1 December 2009, eight years after European leaders launched a process to make the EU more democratic, more transparent and more efficient. Under EU rules, the treaty had to be ratified by all 27 member states before coming into force. The last country to ratify the treaty was the Czech Republic, which completed the process on 3 November 2009. The Lisbon Treaty which succeeded it was rejected by Irish voters in June 2008. But it got overwhelming support in a second referendum in the Irish Republic on 2 October 2009.
The European leaders also pointed out that the purpose of the Lisbon Treaty is to help the enlarged European Union act more effectively and that the process of ratification is continuing in the Member States that have not yet ratified the Treaty. The citizens of Ireland, the only country which held a referendum on the Treaty, rejected it in a vote by 53.4% to 46.6% on 13 June. The European Council on 19 and 20 June 2008 agreed to Ireland’s suggestion to return to the issue at its meeting of 15 October 2008 in order to consider the way forward.
The impact of the Lisbon Treaty-an environmental perspective The Lisbon Treaty, signed in Lisbon on 13 December 2007 and designed to change the workings of the European Union (EU), entered into force on 1 December 2009 following its ratification by all EU Member States. 