Marine flatworms: The marine flatworms (polycladids) are the largest of the free-living flatworms, sometimes reaching lengths of 15 centimeters. Polycladids get their name from their highly branched digestive cavity. These individuals were photographed on a reef near the island of Guam. Life without a coelom: The image at left is a fluke (possibly a species of Probolitrema). Flukes, like other parasitic flatworms, have complex life cycles often involving two or more host organisms. At right, a planarian (Dugesia). Planarians are free-living flatworms, and have a much simpler life history. They inhabit freshwater, and are carnivores (even without teeth) or scavengers
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The flatworms, or Platyhelminthes, Plathelminthes, or platyhelminths (from the Greek πλατύ, platy, meaning flat and ἕλμινς (root: ἑλμινθ-), helminth- , meaning worm) are a phylum of relatively simple bilaterian, unsegmented, soft-bodied invertebrates. Most turbellarians have pigment-cup ocelli (little eyes), one pair in most species, but two or even three pairs in some. A few large species have many eyes in clusters over the brain, mounted on tentacles, or spaced uniformly around the edge of the body.
Platyhelminthes are also known as flatworms because they are worms with a flat body. This is the main external morphological feature that differentiates them from nematodes (roundworms). Turbellarians are free-living platyhelminthes and their main representative is planaria (Dugesia tigrina). Trematodes are parasites, which live inside a host,. The schistosome (Schistosoma mansoni) that causes schistosomiasis is an example of one.
Platyhelminthes. are commonly called flatworms. There are both. parasitic. (dependent on a host organism for survival) and. free-living. forms of this group. Flatworms, either parasitic or free-living forms, have both sexes on the same individual, a condition referred to as. hermaphroditic. . 
student. There is a special reason that flatworms are flat. Because of their flatness the area of their 'body' is bigger (so a bigger surface area). Through this characteristic, they are able to diffuse more in and out of their endosystem. because
All flatworms have a soft body and a triangle-shaped head. They also have eye-spots on top of their heads which can see light. Flatworms are not closely related to most other worms, such as earthworms. Bodies are flat instead of round, and they do not have segments. Flatworms spend most of their time on the bottom, especially since they can't swim. They release sticky mucus (a lot like slugs and snails) which they glide on top of. 
Over half of all known flatworm species are parasitic, and some do enormous harm to humans and their livestock. Schistosomiasis, caused by one genus of trematodes, is the second-most devastating of all human diseases caused by parasites, surpassed only by malaria. Most turbellarians have pigment-cup ocelli (little eyes), one pair in most species, but two or even three pairs in some. A few large species have many eyes in clusters over the brain, mounted on tentacles, or spaced uniformly around the edge of the body.
Flatworms also have a feature that the sponges and cnidarians do not, a middle layer of actual organized cells. Flatworms have three cell layers: an ectoderm, an outer covering like the other groups have; an endoderm, a lining of the digestive spaces somewhat like a cnidarians; and a mesoderm between the other two. With actual tissues protected like this, another evolutionary explosion of features happened. Mesoderm allows tissues to organize into organs and even connect in organ systems, so flatworms are much, much more complex than cnidarians. It is thought that flatworms are descended from some type of early jellyfish. The types of organs and organ systems vary among the groups of flatworms.