All caps is used primarily for emphasis. When used excessively in an electronic message (email, discussion thread, etc), this is called shouting and it is considered quite rude. For more on the various uses of all caps, see the Wikipedia article. Contextual emphasis: Capital letters can be considered a third form of emphasis, among Italics and Bold text. They are used to denote a louder, almost shouting (and in many cases actually shouting) pronunciation.
The name of a railway engine, set in all-caps letters. In typography, ALL CAPS (short for all capitals or all capitalized ) refers to text or a font in which all letters are capital letters. All caps may be used for emphasis (for a word or phrase). They are commonly seen in the titles on book covers, in advertisements and in newspaper headline
However, capital letters provide no further clarity than printing, so all caps is not done for clarity. The least possible is revealed from writing in all capitals. Printing shows less than script, but when all the writing is in capitals, it hides even more. Most handwritten ransom notes, for example, are written in all capitals! This of course does not mean that everyone who writes in all caps is engaged in something nefarious, or even dishonest. But it does mean they do not want to give too much of themselves away. You can get something from writing that is all capitals however. Quick Tip #4. When someone writes totally in capital letters it’s because they don’t want who they truly are to be seen. They may well be totally unaware that that is why they are doing it, but that doesn’t change the fact that it is!
Does typing a word in all capital letters mean your yelling? I have been told when you type with your caps lock on, it means you are yelling. I think it means that you are yelling-when you are typing like that in a chatroom or text message-otherwise its just capital letters I guess. Sophia · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.
All caps are typically used for either of two reasons: Visual Style. Capital letters are often used on covers of magazines, in logos and artsy-typography, usually to emphasise the visual style of the letters themselves, rather than the word. (Example Image). 1  Political Correctness Gone MAD! Contextual emphasis: Capital letters can be considered a third form of emphasis, among Italics and Bold text. They are used to denote a louder, almost shouting (and in many cases actually shouting) pronunciation.
In my experience, people who write in all caps, especially in an email, generally have poor writing skills. Their ALL CAPS WRITING helps cover up errors in grammar, punctuation and spelling by confusing the reader with such an unfriendly script. While using the keyboard to write, having a good or band handwriting does not really matter. Any given day, writing on with capital letters is not acceptable and is abnormal(unless it is a brochure or a newspaper heading or a leaflet for a product or a service).
Writing using capital letters usually means that you are emphasizing whatever you type in capital letters. So, if I typed Go AWAY!, people would understand that I was putting a lot of emphasis on the word AWAY. Due to the exclamation point. 
According to Neticate, it is indeed offensive to write in all caps. So, it is an absolute no-no while you are writing an email. While using the keyboard to write, having a good or band handwriting does not really matter. Any given day, writing on with capital letters is not acceptable and is abnormal(unless it is a brochure or a newspaper heading or a leaflet for a product or a service).
The chances are, then, that all caps are not for you. At least not in any professional context. Or, if you’re a student, not in any email you’d want to send to your professor. All caps require, ironically enough, a light touch, an awareness of exactly how much like SHOUTING they really are. Sometimes it may be just a word or two. Other times, it might be whole lines of text. In either case, the effect is as if the sender were SHOUTING at you. Even text that is bold, italicized, and underlined all at once doesn’t begin to approach the in-your-face chutzpah of all caps.
But, it is a different matter when you are using a pen or a pencil to write. Writing a letter or note, using all capital letters, does reflect that the writer, knowingly or unknowingly does not wish to divulge his/her true nature. While using the keyboard to write, having a good or band handwriting does not really matter. Any given day, writing on with capital letters is not acceptable and is abnormal(unless it is a brochure or a newspaper heading or a leaflet for a product or a service).