Stigma is a mark of disgrace that sets a person apart. When a person is labelled by their illness they are seen as part of a stereotyped group. Negative attitudes create prejudice which leads to negative actions and discrimination. Stigma brings experiences and feelings of: 1  shame. 2  blame. 3  hopelessness. 4  distress. 
Social stigma is the extreme disapproval of (or discontent with) a person or group on socially characteristic grounds that are perceived, and serve to distinguish them, from other members of a society. Stigma may then be affixed to such a person, by the greater society, who differs from their cultural norms. Goffman emphasizes that the stigma relationship is one between an individual and a social setting with a given set of expectations; thus, everyone at different times will play both roles of stigmatized and stigmatizer (or, as he puts it, normal).
stigma. n, pl stigmas or (for sense 7) stigmata (ˈstɪɡmətə; stɪɡˈmɑːtə). 1. a distinguishing mark of social disgrace: the stigma of having been in prison. 2. (Medicine) a small scar or mark such as a birthmark. 3. (Pathology) pathol. a. any mark on the skin, such as one characteristic of a specific disease. b. any sign of a mental deficiency or emotional upset.
Full Definition of STIGMA. 1. a archaic: a scar left by a hot iron: brand c: an identifying mark or characteristic; specifically: a specific diagnostic sign of a disease. 2. a stigmata plural: bodily marks or pains resembling the wounds of the crucified Jesus and sometimes accompanying religious ecstasy b: petechia. 3. : a set of negative and often unfair beliefs that a society or group of people have about something. botany: the top part in the center of a flower which receives the pollen.
People coping with mental illness have a lot more to deal with than just the disorder itself. Many people report that the stigma of mental illness, and the prejudices they encounter because of it, is nearly as bad as the disorder’s symptoms themselves. Truly, the meaning of stigma boils down to discrimination and hate. People with mental illness feel diminished, devalued and fearful because of the negative attitude society holds toward them.
The True Meaning of Stigma. Truly, the meaning of stigma boils down to discrimination and hate. People with mental illness feel diminished, devalued and fearful because of the negative attitude society holds toward them.
Stigma is a Greek word that in its origins referred to a type of marking or tattoo that was cut or burned into the skin of criminals, slaves, or traitors in order to visibly identify them as blemished or morally polluted persons. These individuals were to be avoided or shunned, particularly in public places. Goffman emphasizes that the stigma relationship is one between an individual and a social setting with a given set of expectations; thus, everyone at different times will play both roles of stigmatized and stigmatizer (or, as he puts it, normal).
The name, stigma (στίγμα), is originally a common Greek noun meaning a mark, dot, puncture, or generally a sign, from the verb στίζω (to puncture); the related but distinct word stigme (στιγμή) is the classical and post-classical word for geometric point; punctuation mark. For the use of stigma as a numeral, see digamma. For other uses, see stigma. Stigma (ϛ) is a ligature of the Greek letters sigma (σ) and tau (τ) , which was used in writing Greek between the Middle Ages and the 19th century.
Stigma means different things to different people. This is one dictionary’s definition: “The shame or disgrace attached to something regarded as socially unacceptable. There may be a feeling of ‘us and them’. People who are stigmatised are marked out as being different and are blamed for that difference. 
stigma. 1. any mental or physical mark or peculiarity that aids in identification or diagnosis of a condition. 2. a mark, spot, or pore on the surface of an organ or organism. 3. follicular s. 4. a distinguishing personal trait that is perceived as or actually is physically, socially, or psychologically disadvantageous. 