The time has most definitely come, and here's why: As I mentioned above, I think it justifiable to pay the $120 for a year of Lumosity (as long as you actually use it). It's a lot of money to pay in one shot, but if you buy two new video games in a year it'll cost about the same. But, in my opinion, Lumosity is really only good for one year. After that, it loses its worth (and that worth is definitely already subjective; see below). And, if you don't really have the money, then don't do it. There are a lot of other things that you could spend $120 on.
I personally find this 'side-effect' of the brain training to make the program worth sticking with. Any intelligence increases are just gravy. Lumosity costs $14.95/month billed monthly, $6.70/month if you pre-pay for a year and $4.99/month if you pre-pay for two years. There's a 30 day money-back guarantee on the annual plans. There's also a $299.95 Lifetime membership
Many of you may be familiar with Lumosity (it even has its own commercial on TV now). It's a San Francisco-based company that provides an online brain training program, where subscribers play nearly 40 different games to improve attention, flexibility, memory and problem solving. The experimental group in the Stanford study played Lumosity games four times a week for 12 weeks, and results showed that they had improved word finding, executive function and processing speed over the control group.
Many of you may be familiar with Lumosity (it even has its own commercial on TV now). It's a San Francisco-based company that provides an online brain training program, where subscribers play nearly 40 different games to improve attention, flexibility, memory and problem solving. 
If you have the money and you will definitely use the site at least several times each week, then 'yes'. If you would likely spend $120 in the year on more video games or puzzle books and such, then it's definitely worth it to give Lumosity a try and skip the other stuff for a year. But, in my opinion, Lumosity is really only good for one year. After that, it loses its worth (and that worth is definitely already subjective; see below). And, if you don't really have the money, then don't do it. There are a lot of other things that you could spend $120 on.
The company makes it easy to sign up for Lumosity. You start your brain training with a 3 day trial program. After that, you can decide whether or not you want to pay for the full program, which costs: — $14.95 per month (billed month-to-month). — $6.95 per month (billed annually, or $83.40 for the year). — $4.99 per month (two year commitment, or $119.76 for the full two years).
Or you can pay $6.95/month if you commit to a full year, $4.99/month for a two-year commitment or a one-time payment of $299.95 for a lifetime subscription. The experimental group in the Stanford study played Lumosity games four times a week for 12 weeks, and results showed that they had improved word finding, executive function and processing speed over the control group.
Lumosity subscriptions made online at lumosity.com except the monthly plan (e.g., yearly, two-year, and lifetime plans) offer a 30 day, 100% money back guarantee. You may receive a refund by contacting our Customer Service team within 30 days of your purchase. After that 30 day window, we will not provide a refund. For annual and two-year subscriptions, we will refund renewal payments if you contacting our Customer Service team within 30 days after each renewal occurs. We do not offer refunds for renewal payments for monthly subscriptions. If you signed up with a promotion, your renewal rate may be higher than your initial rate.
By Tony Hoffman Lumosity is the best known cognitive-training Web site—it presents a series of games and exercises designed to help improve one’s mental abilities. The games, developed by neuroscientists, are challenging and—for the most part—fun. View all 11 photos in gallery Lumosity's games are based around 5 general cognitive areas: speed, memory, attention, flexibility, and problem solving. Before you register, you’re asked to choose particular aspects of each of these areas that you’d like to improve.
This Payment Policy is incorporated into the Lumosity Terms of Service, and applies to users who have purchased a Lumosity subscription plan to access Lumosity online or through a mobile application, and to individuals whose payment details have been used to purchase the Lumosity services. For annual and two-year subscriptions, we will refund renewal payments if you contacting our Customer Service team within 30 days after each renewal occurs. We do not offer refunds for renewal payments for monthly subscriptions. If you signed up with a promotion, your renewal rate may be higher than your initial rate.