What is the biggest carnivorous dinosaur ever? spinosaurus Spinosaurus than Gigantosaurus than T-Rex!Spinosaurus was 18 feet tall and 25 feet tall including the spine and 60 feet long. Amphicoelias Fragillimus Currently holds the record as the largest  dinosaur   It was a sauropod that is estimated to be anywhere from 130 ft -  190 ft   and could w … eigh anywhere from 122 tons- 138 tons.
The distinctive spines of Spinosaurus, which were long extensions of the vertebrae, grew to at least 1.65 meters (5.4 ft) long and were likely to have had skin connecting them, forming a sail-like structure, although some authors have suggested that the spines were covered in fat and formed a hump. Two species of Spinosaurus have been named: Spinosaurus aegyptiacus (meaning Egyptian spine lizard) and Spinosaurus maroccanus (meaning Moroccan spine lizard). The first described remains of Spinosaurus were found and described in the early 20th century.
The best known species is S. aegyptiacus from Egypt, although a potential second species, S. maroccanus, has been recovered from Morocco. Spinosaurus was among the largest of all known carnivorous dinosaurs, possibly larger than Tyrannosaurus and Giganotosaurus. Two species of Spinosaurus have been named: Spinosaurus aegyptiacus (meaning Egyptian spine lizard) and Spinosaurus maroccanus (meaning Moroccan spine lizard). The first described remains of Spinosaurus were found and described in the early 20th century.
View full size image. Spinosaurus was the biggest of all the carnivorous dinosaurs, larger than Tyrannosaurus and Giganotosaurus. It lived during part of the Cretaceous period, about 112 million to 97 million years ago, roaming the swamps of North Africa. Two Spinosaurus species have been named based on the regions where they were discovered: Spinosaurus aegyptiacus Egyptian spine lizard) and Spinosaurus maroccanus (Moroccan spine lizard). Spinosaurus is thought to have survived primarily on fish, including giant coelacanths, sawfish, large lungfish and sharks, which lived in the dinosaur's river system, according to Ibrahim.
The largest carnivorous dinosaur that ever lived on earth was Giganotosaurus.. The largest is liopleurodon.. The largest carnivores ever lived on earth are- 1) Spinosa … urus aegiptiacus 2) Gigantosaurus carolini 3) Tyrannosaurus rex The largest of all definitely is liopleurodon. Answered. Confidence votes 11. There is some degree of overlap between Spinosaurus, Giganotosaurus, and Carcharodontosaurus. Spinosaurus appears to be the largest, but the sail on its back makes it look larger than it actually was.
Two scientists in Portugal announced on Wednesday that they have identified the largest carnivorous dinosaur ever found in Europe, a 33-foot-long (10-meter-long) brute called Torvosaurus gurneyi that was the scourge of its domain in the Jurassic Period. This animal, Torvosaurus, was already a fossil for 80 million years before the T. rex ever walked the Earth, Mateus said. During the Jurassic Period from about 200 million years ago to 145 million years ago, carnivorous dinosaurs generally were medium-sized, with an average length of about 7 to 16 feet.
More gigantic than Giganotosaurus. Spinosaurus was larger than both T. rex and Giganotosaurus, which was previously the largest carnivorous dinosaur known. But it's unclear just how big Spinosaurus was, due to incomplete fossils. Spinosaurus is thought to have survived primarily on fish, including giant coelacanths, sawfish, large lungfish and sharks, which lived in the dinosaur's river system, according to Ibrahim.
Spinosaurus (meaning spine lizard) is a genus of theropod dinosaur that lived in what now is North Africa, during the lower Albian to lower Cenomanian stages of the Cretaceous period, about 112 to 97 million years ago. Two species of Spinosaurus have been named: Spinosaurus aegyptiacus (meaning Egyptian spine lizard) and Spinosaurus maroccanus (meaning Moroccan spine lizard). The first described remains of Spinosaurus were found and described in the early 20th century.
Two scientists in Portugal announced they have identified the largest carnivorous dinosaur ever found in Europe, a 10-metre-long brute called Torvosaurus gurneyi that was the scourge of its domain in the Jurassic Period. It was indeed better not to cross the way of this large, carnivorous dinosaur, said paleontologist Christophe Hendrickx of Universidade Nova de Lisboa and Museu da Lourinha in Portugal. Torvosaurus gurneyi was an imposing beast.