Why It Is Done. A kidney scan is done to: 1  Check the blood flow through the kidneys. 2  Abnormal flow may mean narrowed renal arteries that can cause a type of high blood pressure called renovascular hypertension. 3  See how a transplanted kidney is working. During a scan to look at kidney function, a radioactive tracer substance is injected into a vein in the arm and then travels through the bloodstream to the kidneys. The tracer flows through the blood vessels in the kidneys and then is excreted into the urine.
A renal (kidney) scan is a diagnostic procedure that uses nuclear medicine to examine the anatomy and functioning of your kidneys. A renal scan is also called a renal scintigraphy, renal imaging, or a renogram. During this procedure, a radioactive material, called a radioisotope or radionuclide “tracer,” is injected into your vein. The radioisotope releases gamma rays, which a gamma camera or scanner can detect from outside the body. A renal scan typically involves the following steps: 1  Before your procedure, you will remove any clothing, jewelry, dentures, or metal items that could interfere with your scan. 2  You may have to change into a hospital gown. 3  You will then lie down on a scanning table.
In a Nuclear Medicine (NM) Renal Scan, images are made of the delivery of fluid into the kidneys via the bloodstream, concentration of wastes in the kidney and excretion or flow from the kidneys through the ureters and filling of the bladder. A Nuclear Medicine Renal Scan can be performed with 2 different substances-DTPA or MAG3. DTPA is the radiopharmaceutical used in a DTPA Renal Scan, but sometimes the nuclear medicine specialist will decide that another radiopharmaceutical called MAG3 should be used.
A CT scan of the kidney may be performed to assess the kidneys for tumors and other lesions, obstructions such as kidney stones, abscesses, polycystic kidney disease, and congenital anomalies, particularly when another type of examination, such as X-rays or physical examination, is not conclusive. CT scans of the kidneys can provide more detailed information about the kidneys than standard kidney, ureter, and bladder (KUB) X-rays, thus providing more information related to injuries and/or diseases of the kidneys.
Kidney Scan. Guide. A kidney scan is a nuclear scanning test that is done to check kidney function or appearance. During a scan to look at kidney function, a radioactive tracer substance is injected into a vein in the arm and then travels through the bloodstream to the kidneys. The tracer flows through the blood vessels in the kidneys and then is excreted into the urine.
A kidney scan is a specialized radiology procedure used to assess the function and structure of the kidneys, as well as the perfusion (blood flow) to the kidney tissue. A kidney scan is a type of nuclear radiology procedure. This means that a tiny amount of a radioactive substance is used during the procedure to assist in the examination of the kidneys. The radioactive substance, called a radionuclide (radiopharmaceutical or radioactive tracer), is absorbed by normal kidney tissue. The gamma radiation is detected by a scanner, which processes the information into a picture of the kidneys. By measuring the behavior of the radionuclide in the body during a nuclear scan, the doctor can assess and diagnose various conditions, such as tumors, abscesses, hematomas, organ enlargement, or cysts.
A renal scan can be done for a number of conditions, including blockage of urine flow (hydronephrosis), abnormal kidney function, and high blood pressure (hypertension). A small amount of radioactive tracer is injected into a vein in your arm, and a scan is done to study the blood flow immediately after injection. 
A kidney scan is done to: 1  Check the blood flow through the kidneys. 2  See how a transplanted kidney is working. 3  Check the extent of kidney damage caused by an injury or infection. 4  Find an obstruction in the kidney or ureter, such as from a kidney stone. 5  Find growths in the kidneys (rare). During a scan to look at kidney function, a radioactive tracer substance is injected into a vein in the arm and then travels through the bloodstream to the kidneys. The tracer flows through the blood vessels in the kidneys and then is excreted into the urine.
The descriptions and explanations below for a DTPA renal scan apply also to a MAG3 renal scan. A Nuclear Medicine DTPA or MAG3 Renal Scan is performed to look at the blood supply, function and excretion of urine from the kidneys. The test can find out what percentage each kidney contributes to the total kidney function. A Nuclear Medicine Renal Scan can be performed with 2 different substances-DTPA or MAG3. DTPA is the radiopharmaceutical used in a DTPA Renal Scan, but sometimes the nuclear medicine specialist will decide that another radiopharmaceutical called MAG3 should be used.
A renal scan measures kidney function by monitoring the flow of the radioisotope and how efficiently it is absorbed and passed by your kidneys. It also shows abnormalities in the structure, size, or shape of your kidneys. Renal scans can identify and evaluate: 1  decreased blood flow to the kidneys. A renal scan typically involves the following steps: 1  Before your procedure, you will remove any clothing, jewelry, dentures, or metal items that could interfere with your scan. 2  You may have to change into a hospital gown. 3  You will then lie down on a scanning table.