Introduction. The Grant Proposal is the most important part of the Grant Application process. If your proposal and application do not specifically address the grant requirements and demonstrate need, all of your efforts will have been in vain and you will likely not be very successful in obtaining grant money. Private Foundations and Government Agencies receive literally thousands of grant applications each day.
Failure to submit this information may delay processing. Proposals submitted via Grants.gov should be prepared and submitted in accordance with the NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov. 
Writing a good research grant proposal is not easy. This document is an attempt to collect together a number of suggestions about what makes a good proposal. It is inevitably a personal view on the part of the authors; we would welcome feedback and suggestions from others. 
Sample Cover Letter for Grant Proposal The cover letter should contain a summary of your proposal, introduce your organization and summarize any recent communications you’ve had with the funding organization. This sample grant proposal contains: • Sample Cover Letter • Sample Cover Page • Sample Grant Proposal • Sample Letter Format Grant Proposal for Foundations Kurzweil Educational Systems 14 Crosby Drive Bedford, MA 01730 800-894-5374 www.kurzweiledu.com Copyright © 2002 Kurzweil Educational Systems.
Letters must be submitted by the same due date as the grant application and can be submitted before the application itself, as early as the opening date of the Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA). The referee does not need to be registered in Commons to submit a reference letter. Once an application has been rejected, applicants can submit a changed/corrected application to Grants.gov. However, if the final submission is not made by the application due date, the application will not be considered on time and will be subject to the NIH policy for late applications.
1 If it says that the grant must be submitted via the online form, don't even bother to ask if you can send it via fax. 2  Unlike employment applications, in which it sometimes pays to be original, grant committees have rules in place for a specific reason, and they expect them to be followed to the letter. Most grant applications ask for similar information, but they often have different formats. Some will have a list of questions. Others will ask for a “narrative”—the story of your project. Whether it's for a business or organization, writing a grant proposal is a skill that you can learn.
Writing a Grant proposal can be as simple as following the directions in the application packet the agency sends you on request. Add a little flare and your Grant application can stand out, making your chances of selection better. If your proposal and application do not specifically address the grant requirements and demonstrate need, all of your efforts will have been in vain and you will likely not be very successful in obtaining grant money. Private Foundations and Government Agencies receive literally thousands of grant applications each day.
Sample Grant Proposal Use this sample grant proposal to help you in the process of preparing your own request for funding. Check with your state department of education to see if they require a certain format in their request for proposal (RFP). Many foundations also have specific requirements. This sample grant proposal contains: • Sample Cover Letter • Sample Cover Page • Sample Grant Proposal • Sample Letter Format Grant Proposal for Foundations Kurzweil Educational Systems 14 Crosby Drive Bedford, MA 01730 800-894-5374 www.kurzweiledu.com Copyright © 2002 Kurzweil Educational Systems.
Writing successful grant applications is a long process that begins with an idea. Although many people think of grant writing as a linear process (from idea to proposal to award), it is a circular process. Diagram 1 below provides an overview of the grant writing process and may help you plan your proposal development. Applicants must write grant proposals, submit them, receive notice of acceptance or rejection, and then revise their proposals. Unsuccessful grant applicants must revise and resubmit their proposals during the next funding cycle. What this handout is about. This handout will help you write and revise grant proposals for research funding in all academic disciplines (sciences, social sciences, humanities, and the arts).
Some RFPs may require a letter of intent that precedes the submission of a grant proposal. These can be challenging to write, as they are basically an abstract of the proposal. Therefore, it is helpful to have a clear purpose, identified need, and some idea as to your strategy for addressing that need ahead of time. A grant is a sum of money given to an agency or individual to address a problem or need in the community. The written document that one prepares as a means of requesting or applying for this money (funding) is a grant proposal. Grants are not synonymous with contracts.