The Tuotuo River is source of the Yangtze River. Han River is the longest tributary of the Yangtze River. It joins with The Grand Canal in Nanjing City. It finally empties into East Sea at Shanghai. The river is 6,397km (3975 mile) long and covers an area of about 1, 8 million sq km. Its upstream is from the source to Yichang City in Hubei Province and the currents are dangerous. The Yangtze River passes through 10 provinces including Qinghai, Tibet, Sichuan, Yunnan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui, Jiangsu and Shanghai. The largest and most important cities on the river are Chongqing, Wuhan, Nanjing
The Ob (обь) is the main river of Western Siberia. It originates far to the south in the Altai Mountains and winds its weigh northward until it empties into the Kara Sea (part of the Arctic Ocean). There is a large hydroelectric dam, built in 1956, at Novosibirsk, which created a huge reservoir on the river. The Lena (ле́на) River in Siberia is one of the world's longest rivers. It originates in the Baikal Mountains, west of Lake Baikal, and flows first northeastward and then almost due north to the Laptev
The Ob River (Russian: обь; [opʲ]), also Obi, is a major river in western Siberia, Russia and is the world's seventh longest river. It is the westernmost of the three great Siberian rivers that flow into the Arctic Ocean (the other two being the Yenisei River and the Lena River). The Gulf of Ob is the world's longest estuary. The combined Ob-Irtysh system, the fourth-longest river system of Asia (after Yenisei, and China's Yangtze and Yellow rivers), is 5,410 kilometres (3,360 mi) long, and the area of its basin 2,990,000 square kilometres (1,150,000 sq mi).
1 – Nile (4,132 miles). The river Nile is the longest river in the world. It starts at the Tributaries of Lake Victoria, Africa and runs into the Mediterranean Sea. It runs through the ten countries of Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Egypt, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda. The ninth number on our list of the top ten longest rivers in the world is the Zaire or Congo River, which starts at the Confluence of Lualab and Luapula rivers, Congo and runs into the Atlantic Ocean. It is 2,920 miles in length. The river is a lifeline with rails and roads in it.
The Yenisei (Russian: енисе́й, Yenisey, Mongolian: Gorlog), also written as Yenisey, is the largest river system flowing to the Arctic Ocean. It is the central of the three great Siberian rivers that flow into the Arctic Ocean (the other two being the Ob and the Lena). The depth of river outflow is 32 metres (106 ft) and inflow is 31 metres (101 ft).
Rising in Mongolia, it follows a northerly course to the Yenisei Gulf in the Kara Sea, draining a large part of central Siberia, the longest stream following the Yenisei-Angara-Selenga-Ider river system. The maximum depth of the Yenisei is 24 metres (80 ft) and the average depth is 14 metres (45 ft). The depth of river outflow is 32 metres (106 ft) and inflow is 31 metres (101 ft).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Yenisei (also spelled Yenisey) River begins in Kyzyl, Tuva Republic, Russia and into the Kara Sea, southern part of the Artic Ocean, north of Siberia. See the links below. It begins in Montana and ends in St. Louis, Missouri. I agree with you-Imbeciles need not answer! the Missouri river actually begins in Three Forks Montana and empties into the Mississippi River in North St. Louis, MO. The Ohio river empties into the Mississippi between Cairo, MO and Wycliffe, KY.
Guesses are not answers, and this is the third one I've found … to be blatantly incorrect tonight. It begins in Montana and ends in St. Louis, Missouri. I agree with you-Imbeciles need not answer! the Missouri river actually begins in Three Forks Montana and empties into the Mississippi River in North St. Louis, MO. The Ohio river empties into the Mississippi between Cairo, MO and Wycliffe, KY.
The Lena River. The Lena is the 10th-longest river in the world, flowing 2,734 miles across the Far East regions of Russia, forming near Lake Baykal and flowing northeast to the Arctic Ocean. It empties in a 250-mile-wide delta at the Laptev Sea. On This Site. 
The Parana Paraná river In argentina starts its journey from The confluence Of paranaiba And grande rivers and terminates at The rio río De. La plata its 3,032 is. 3032 miles it first Merges With paraguay river and then With The uruguay river To form rio De la plata and in the end empties Into The. atlantic ocean The ninth number on our list of the top ten longest rivers in the world is the Zaire or Congo River, which starts at the Confluence of Lualab and Luapula rivers, Congo and runs into the Atlantic Ocean. It is 2,920 miles in length. The river is a lifeline with rails and roads in it.