Peace Names. These boy names were at the peak of their popularity in the year 2001 (usage of 0.1429%) and have remained as popular to this day (usage 0.1371%, down 4%), but with names like Edgar, Galen, Geoffrey, Godfrey and Jalen becoming somewhat outmoded.
FREDERICK m English. English form of a Germanic name meaning peaceful ruler, derived from frid peace and ric ruler, power ... [more]. FRIDA f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Ancient Germanic. Germanic name, originally a short form of other feminine names containing the Germanic element frid meaning peace ... [more]. Short form of names containing the Slavic element miru meaning peace or world. MIRAN m Slovene. Derived from the Slavic element miru meaning peace or world. MIRCHE m Macedonian, Medieval Slavic. Derived from the Slavic element miru meaning peace, world.
F ind out list of fifty seven (57) baby names which mean  PEACE . These names for boys and girls with originated of Irish, Slavic, American, German, African, Greek, Biblical, English, Chinese, Scandinavian and Indian background. - ALANA: Irish girl name. It's mean Peaceful, Serene. Fifty Seven (57) baby names which mean PEACE. - MALIA: Hawaiian female name meaning Calm and Peaceful). - OLIVE: Latin female name meaning Olive Branch, Peace. - OLIVIA: Latin female name meaning Peace-of The Olive Tree.
The most trendy baby names among these are Harmony (#193) , Lana (#351) , Livia (#666) , Mira (#613) and Serenity (#60) , and there is also a rekindling in baby name usage for Lana. Amano (top 25%) and Amini (16%) are conventional last names. Peace names and what they mean, for peace, peaceful, calm, harmony. Peace Names for girls. These girl names were at the top of their popularity during 1880-1889 (usage of 0.1323%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.1098%, down 17%), but with names like Irene, Salome, Serena, Teresa and Winifred falling out of style.
Here are some of the most usable of the baby names that mean peace. Axel is the perfect heavy metal rock name, thanks to Guns N' Roses' Axl Rose (born William). Axel is a popular Scandinavian form of the Biblical Absalom, who was a son of King David, and is the nam...
these are several names that means peace. Amani ... Peace.. Axelle ... Father is peace. ... Bianca ... who was a Nicaraguan fashion model, peace worker, and diplomat ... Chessa ... My aunt is expecting a baby girl, she wants a name that starts with J and I was wondering is there some names that means peace or something close to that like safe...???
The most trendy baby names in this compilation are Axel (#145) , Jonah (#138) , Oliver (#32) , Paxton (#260) and Solomon (#380) , and there is also a rekindling in birth name popularity for Axel, Jonah, Oliver and Solomon. Curey (top 64%) and Jaffrey (94%) are familiar last names. These boy names were at the peak of their popularity in the year 2001 (usage of 0.1429%) and have remained as popular to this day (usage 0.1371%, down 4%), but with names like Edgar, Galen, Geoffrey, Godfrey and Jalen becoming somewhat outmoded.
Colm is a popular boys' name in Ireland that could immigrate, especially with its peaceful meaning. Colm Toibin is a contemporary Irish novelist and critic, author of The Master and Brooklyn; Colm... Read More. Axel is the perfect heavy metal rock name, thanks to Guns N' Roses' Axl Rose (born William). Axel is a popular Scandinavian form of the Biblical Absalom, who was a son of King David, and is the nam...
From an English surname which was derived from the Middle English word pace meaning peace. PACIFICA pacífica F. Spanish spanish feminine form of The Late latin Name pacificus meaning. PEACEMAKER pau M, Catalan. Occitan catalan And occitan form OF ... paul Short form of names containing the Slavic element miru meaning peace or world. MIRAN m Slovene. Derived from the Slavic element miru meaning peace or world. MIRCHE m Macedonian, Medieval Slavic. Derived from the Slavic element miru meaning peace, world.
Joy...Joyce, Jocelyn, Joya. Charm...Jenelle, Jenn, Jennifer There are many lovely girl names that refer to peace, but not that start with J...sorry The book below has lists of names by meanings, and cultures, it is a bit different from most baby books, so she might want to check it out. My aunt is expecting a baby girl, she wants a name that starts with J and I was wondering is there some names that means peace or something close to that like safe...???