If you are concerned about how long a pardon will take the only really good rule of thumb is the age old wisdom most of heard from our parents long ago. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. At the time of writing the National Pardon Centre is quoting 10 – 12 months start to finish for an expedited pardon. I paid a 200 dollar fee to get my pardon started and went to the police station for a record check. They asked me who I was getting to do it and I said pardons Canada and they laughed at me. Pardons Canada has the worst reputation and I was advised to do my pardon by myself.
Anyone guaranteeing you a pardon in a certain number of months is just telling you what you want to hear. At the National Pardon Centre we provide estimates. We do our best to provide accurate estimates based on current processing times but it is not possible to accurately predict how long every file will take. I paid a 200 dollar fee to get my pardon started and went to the police station for a record check. They asked me who I was getting to do it and I said pardons Canada and they laughed at me. Pardons Canada has the worst reputation and I was advised to do my pardon by myself.
September 13, 2013 by admin in FAQ | 1 Comment. It takes an average of 9-18 months for a pardon/record suspension application to be processed and granted. However, to prepare the pardon/record suspension application, many documents must be collected. Acquiring the proper supporting documents from various law enforcement and government agencies takes between 3-10 months.
When a person is found guilty and convicted of an offence they require a pardon/record suspension. The record, including fingerprints, photographs, and RCMP report and court records are then sealed, and never opened unless the individual is subsequently charged with a criminal offence. Yes. If you are not a Canadian citizen, you can be removed from Canada for having a criminal record. Permanent residents may be deported if they are convicted of a serious offence in Canada. It is important to apply for your pardon/record suspension as soon as possible. It is also advisable to contact an immigration lawyer to discuss how the charge will affect your status as a permanent resident
charges $631 to process a record suspension application (Certified cheque, bank draft or money order, payable to the Receiver General of Canada). You are also responsible for additional fees related to getting the following: fingerprints, copy of your criminal record, court documents, and local police record checks. 
You cannot apply for a pardon/record suspension if your charge was a sexual conviction where the victim was a minor; if you have 4 or more indictable convictions, each of which 2 years or more of jail time was served. For discharges, waiting periods begin from the court date. Yes. If you are not a Canadian citizen, you can be removed from Canada for having a criminal record. Permanent residents may be deported if they are convicted of a serious offence in Canada. It is important to apply for your pardon/record suspension as soon as possible. It is also advisable to contact an immigration lawyer to discuss how the charge will affect your status as a permanent resident
The RCMP processes record suspensions (pardons), revocations and cessation of record suspensions. It seals or reactivates the criminal record when a record suspension is granted, revoked, or ceases to have effect, and notifies the contributing agencies on behalf of the Parole Board of Canada (PBC). The Parole Board of Canada is the organization responsible for record suspensions. All inquiries about a record suspension application should be directed to a Parole Board of Canada office.
It takes an average of 12-24 months for a pardon/record suspension application to be processed and granted. However, to prepare the pardon/record suspension application, many documents must be collected. Acquiring the proper supporting documents takes between 3-10 months. Yes. If you are not a Canadian citizen, you can be removed from Canada for having a criminal record. Permanent residents may be deported if they are convicted of a serious offence in Canada. It is important to apply for your pardon/record suspension as soon as possible. It is also advisable to contact an immigration lawyer to discuss how the charge will affect your status as a permanent resident
Most clients just want to get their pardon and then forget the arrest(s) ever happened. What you are experiencing with the Parole Board is fairly normal although your case sounds like it is taking a little on the long side. At the National Pardon Centre we are taking around 6 months to complete the application. I paid a 200 dollar fee to get my pardon started and went to the police station for a record check. They asked me who I was getting to do it and I said pardons Canada and they laughed at me. Pardons Canada has the worst reputation and I was advised to do my pardon by myself.