Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Ribosomes are non-membrane-bounded particles where protein synthesis occurs. The number of ribosomes in a cell varies depending on its functions. For example, pancreatic cells and those of other glands have many ribosomes because they produce secretions that contain proteins. The main function of ribosomes is as the site of mRNA translation; once the two subunits are joined by the mRNA from the nucleus, the ribosome translates mRNA into a specific sequence of amino acids.
1 The subunits of the ribosome are synthesized by the nucleolus. 2  The subunits of ribosomes join together when the ribosomes attaches to the messenger RNA during the process of protein synthesis. 3  Ribosomes along with a transfer RNA molecule (tRNA), helps to translate the protein-coding genes in mRNA to proteins. Plant cell do have ribosomes and they are composed of proteins and ribosomal RNA. The ribosomes in a plant cell are found in the cytoplasm, the surface of the rough e ndoplasmic reticulum, the mitochondria and on chloroplasts. There are two types of ribosomes-free ribsomes and attached ribosomes.
Ribosomes are composed of two different subunits, called the large subunit and the small subunit. Both subunits are composed of rRNA and protein. These subunits usually exist separately in the cytoplasm until the small subunit recognizes and binds to a specific sequence of an mRNA message. 
Ribosomes are used in the synthesis of proteins and enzymes required by the cells for various purposes. Most of our cellular chemical reactions are enhanced (catalyzed) by enzymes, in order for the cells to function properly. Ribosomes make proteins for use in the cell and for export. a ribosome is a part of the cell in the animal They make the amount of protein needed for the cell.
Related Information: They do this by translating messenger RNA (mRNA) into proteins. Messenger RNA is simply a copy of the DNA from the nucleus that is allowed to enter the cytoplasm and be used to make proteins. Ribosomes are the sites of protein synthesis, where RNA is translated into protein. When cells need large numbers of proteins, they must first build numerous ribosomes. Because protein synthesis is so important to cells, there are large numbers of ribosomes in all cells, often numbering in the hundreds or thousands. Ribosomes make proteins for use in the cell and for export. a ribosome is a part of the cell in the animal They make the amount of protein needed for the cell.
Related Information: They do this by translating messenger RNA (mRNA) into proteins. Messenger RNA is simply a copy of the DNA from the nucleus that is allowed to enter the cytoplasm and be used to make proteins. Ribosomes are the sites of protein synthesis, where RNA is translated into protein. When cells need large numbers of proteins, they must first build numerous ribosomes. Ribosomes are the tiny organelles inside cells which are responsible for protein synthesis. Which means it creates the protein in the cell. Ribosomes are part of the cellular machinery that are involved in production of proteins. They are located in the final stage known as Translation.
The ribosomes present in the prokaryotes function differently in protein production than the ribosomes of the eukaryote organisms. The ribosomes of bacteria, archea and eukaryotes differ significantly from each other in structure and RNA sequences. Plant cell do have ribosomes and they are composed of proteins and ribosomal RNA. The ribosomes in a plant cell are found in the cytoplasm, the surface of the rough e ndoplasmic reticulum, the mitochondria and on chloroplasts. There are two types of ribosomes-free ribsomes and attached ribosomes.
Ribosomes are typically composed of two subunits: a large subunit and a small subunit. Ribosomal subunits are synthesized by the nucleolus. These two subunits join together when the ribosome attaches to messenger RNA (mRNA) during protein synthesis. 
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. Ribosomes consist of two major components: the small ribosomal subunit, which reads the RNA, and the large subunit, which joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain. Eukaryotes have 80S ribosomes, each consisting of a small (40S) and large (60S) subunit. Their 40S subunit has an 18S RNA (1900 nucleotides) and 33 proteins. The large subunit is composed of a 5S RNA (120 nucleotides), 28S RNA (4700 nucleotides), a 5.8S RNA (160 nucleotides) subunits and 46 proteins.
They are complexes of proteins and three (prokaryotes) or four (eukaryotes) rRNA molecules called subunits. The main function of ribosomes is as the site of mRNA translation; once the two subunits are joined by the mRNA from the nucleus, the ribosome translates mRNA into a specific sequence of amino acids. There are two types of Ribosomes: free and bound