Diclofenac is a pain reliever in the drug class NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug). It is available both over-the-counter and by prescription in the United States. Its common brand names are Voltaren, Cataflam and Zipsor. Diclofenac is often used to treat pain, tenderness, swelling and stillness resulting from osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or ankylosing spondylitis. Short-acting (Cataflam and Zipsor) diclofenac may be used to treat menstrual or other pains. Diclofenac gel or cream is sometimes used to treat actinic keratosis, a skin condition that may become cancerous if not treated
Diclofenac is a non steroidal anti inflammatory drug (NSAID). This medicine works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain inflammation. Diclofenac is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by arthritis or ankylosing spondylitis. Diclofenac powder (Cambia) is used to treat a migraine headache attack. Do not use this medication to treat a cluster headache. Cambia will only treat a headache that has already begu
Uses. Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat mild-to-moderate pain, and helps to relieve symptoms of arthritis (eg, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis), such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. 
Diclofenac topical may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). It works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Diclofenac topical 1\% gel (Voltaren Topical) is used to treat joint pain in the hands, wrists, elbows, knees, ankles, or feet caused by osteoarthritis. This medication may not be effective in treating arthritis pain elsewhere in the body.
Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat mild-to-moderate pain, and helps to relieve symptoms of arthritis (eg, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis), such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. This medicine is also used to treat ankylosing spondylitis, which is a type of arthritis that affects the joints in the spine, and other painful conditions such as menstrual cramps. Diclofenac is also used to treat acute migraine attacks, with or without aura, in adults.
Diclofenac is normally taken to relieve pain, swelling, or inflammation caused by injuries and conditions such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, painful menstruation periods, migraines, and ankylosing splondylitis. Diclofenac belongs to group of drugs known as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 1 Diclofenac can damage the lining of your stomach, putting you at risk for stomach ulcers and heartburn. 2  Tell your doctor if you have stomach pain, nausea, or black or tarry stools.
Diclofenac is available as a generic drug in a number of formulations, including diclofenac diethylamine, which is applied topically. Over-the-counter (OTC) use is approved in some countries for minor aches and pains and fever associated with common infections. As long-term use of diclofenac and similar NSAIDs predisposes for peptic ulcer, many patients at risk for this complication are prescribed Arthrotec-a combination of diclofenac and misoprostol, a synthetic prostaglandin (PGE1) analogue, to protect the stomach lining.
Diclofenac is the generic name for a prescription drug that’s available under a number of brand names, such as Voltaren, Pennsaid, Solaraze, Zipsor, Cataflam, and Zorvolex. 1 Diclofenac can damage the lining of your stomach, putting you at risk for stomach ulcers and heartburn. 2  Tell your doctor if you have stomach pain, nausea, or black or tarry stools.
In the United Kingdom, United States, India, and Brazil diclofenac may be supplied as either the sodium or potassium salt; in China, it is most often supplied as the sodium salt, while in some other countries it is only available as the potassium salt. As long-term use of diclofenac and similar NSAIDs predisposes for peptic ulcer, many patients at risk for this complication are prescribed Arthrotec-a combination of diclofenac and misoprostol, a synthetic prostaglandin (PGE1) analogue, to protect the stomach lining.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Diclofenac belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that are used for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, fever, and inflammation. 