While the minimum amount of hCG required for any pregnancy is about 5 mIU/ml, hCG levels in early pregnancy vary greatly. A pregnancy that is detected very early, about four weeks after the last menstrual period, should have between 5 and 426 mIU/ml. Abnormally low levels of HCG in the blood may indicate an increased risk of miscarriage. HCG levels in early pregnancy can vary, but a minimum of about 5 mIU/ml is required.
HCG levels in pregnancy. HCG, or human chorionic gonadotropin, is a hormone made by the pregnancy that can be detected in the mother's blood or urine even before the woman's missed period. This hormone is what we look for with a pregnancy test. In general, the HCG level will double every 2-3 days in early pregnancy. 85% of normal pregnancies will have the HCG level double every 72 hours. HCG levels peak at about 8-10 weeks of pregnancy and then decline, remaining at lower levels for the rest of the pregnancy. There is a large variation in a normal HCG level for any given time in pregnancy
Some normal pregnancies will have quite low levels of HCG-and deliver perfect babies. Caution must be used in making too much of HCG numbers. Ultrasound findings after 5-6 weeks of pregnancy are much more predictive of pregnancy outcome than are HCG levels. In general, the HCG level will double every 2-3 days in early pregnancy. 85% of normal pregnancies will have the HCG level double every 72 hours.
There is, however, a term used to describe the maternal serum hCG level above which a gestational sac should be consistently visible on transvaginal sonography – “discriminatory zone” – coined in the 1980s (yup, that’s right, 30 years ago!). In a recent article in the Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine (through AIUM), a study was done that illustrates exactly what we all experience in practice – an ectopic pregnancy can occur at any beta hCG level….AND a normal pregnancy can result despite a higher bHCG and no IUP seen.
Sixty-four patients with a confirmed diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy, a pelvic ultrasound, and a quantitative B-hCG level were included in the study. Eighteen (28%) of these patients had a quantitative B-hCG less than 1000 mIU/mL. Sixteen of the eighteen patients (89%) with a B-hCG level less than 1000 mIU/mL had sonographic findings suggestive of ectopic pregnancy, such as fluid in the cul-de-sac, or a complex adnexal or cystic mass.
“Objectives—The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) discriminatory level—the maternal serum β-hCG level above which a gestational sac should be consistently visible on sonography in a normal pregnancy—has been reported to be 1000 to 2000 mIU/mL for transvaginal sonography. In a recent article in the Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine (through AIUM), a study was done that illustrates exactly what we all experience in practice – an ectopic pregnancy can occur at any beta hCG level….AND a normal pregnancy can result despite a higher bHCG and no IUP seen.
Here honey. This shows hcg levels, days sinceLMP, and what you should see on ultrasound. According to this you can see the heartbeat at 6 weeks or so. http://babymed.com/FAQ/Content.aspx?1437..
1 The results from an ultrasound after 5 -6 weeks gestation are much more accurate than using hCG numbers. 2  An hCG level of less than 5mIU/ml is considered negative for pregnancy, and anything above 25mIU/ml is considered positive for pregnancy. 1 In 85% of normal pregnancies, the hCG level will double every 48 – 72 hours. 2  As you get further along in pregnancy and the hCG level gets higher, the time it takes to double can increase to about every 96 hours.
A single HCG value doesn’t give enough information about the health or viability of the pregnancy. Within the first 2-4 weeks after fertilization, HCG usually doubles every 48-72 hours. That usually corresponds to HCG levels below 1200 IU. From 1200-6000, the HCG usually takes 72-96 hours to double. Above 6000 IU, the hCG often takes over four days to double. So, the rate of increase in HCG levels normally varies as a pregnancy progresses.
As a pregnancy grows, HCG increases. Measurements of HCG levels can be useful during the early weeks before the fetal heartbeat is seen on ultrasound, usually around 6-7 weeks after last menstrual period, or 4-5 weeks after conception. From 1200-6000, the HCG usually takes 72-96 hours to double. Above 6000 IU, the hCG often takes over four days to double. So, the rate of increase in HCG levels normally varies as a pregnancy progresses.