Check out Dubai job sites. Another or additional way to measure your expected Dubai salary is to check out the listings on Dubai job sites. Some employers indicate a salary range in their job postings. Just like with recruitment agencies, there are dozens of job sites in Dubai. A third way to investigate your expected Dubai salary online is to use Dubai salary calculators (which are based on salary surveys). The seemingly most comprehensive salary calculator for Dubai and the one that I would recommend is PayScale’s.
Salary Outlook. The Labor Department reports that database administrators made a median salary of $78,520 in 2013. The highest-paid 10 percent in the profession earned $120,990, while the lowest-paid earned $43,720 that year. 
Find out how much you can get paid in Dubai ! Listed below are approximate figures and not a definite pay scale range for certain job categories. You must consider experience, education, nationality and the employers you would be working for. The salary figures are based on the average input that we receive from employer and can vary from one employer to another. Data below are based on a typical 1-5 years of experience as this is only an approximate figure and not a definite salary range.
Senior Database Administrator (DBA) Salary. (United Arab Emirates). The average salary for a Senior Database Administrator (DBA) is AED 182,644 per year. A skill in Oracle is associated with high pay for this job. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. AED 80,343 - AED 328,848
Years of experience is a prime determining factor for DBA salaries. At first, a DBA earns about $30,000 a year, especially if he or she works in a small town. When years of experience are added, the amount can increase up to $90,000 a year. In major cities the smallest amount paid is $50,000, with a maximum income of $120,000 a year. On average the amount made per year by a DBA is $72,000 a year
Average salaries and wages in Dubai and UAE. Table of average wages and salary ranges for jobs in Dubai. Similar pay scales and wages paid in Abu Dhabi companies and jobs (or higher), similar or lower in other emirates. All salary figures are monthly in UAE dirhams (AED) (3.67 dhs = US$1). Actual amount will depend on qualifications, experience, employee nationality, employment history, employer mood, and other random factors. Suggest corrections or additional professions and salary ranges in the UAE salaries forum topic.
Gratuity pay is based on your last basic salary as per records appearing in the Department of Labour. Gratuity is equivalent to your 21-day pay for each year of service for first five years and 30-day pay for every year thereafter. There is no income tax in the UAE, but, depending on your nationality and your duration of stay in your Dubai job, you may have to pay tax in your home country. As each country is different, you may have to speak to your income tax department or a tax lawyer/accountant to get definitive information.
A Senior Database Administrator (DBA) in Dubai earns an average salary of AED 172,717 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. A skill in Oracle is associated with high pay for this job. AED 48,322 - AED 308,514. 
They look at the salary surveys and drool at the average Oracle DBA salary of $100,000 and the prospect of earning up to $250,000 per year as a production DBA. Many of them don't know what a DBA does, but they sure like the money. However, there is a huge variation in DBA salary. Back in 1981, the average DBA salary was about age+10, and a DBA right out of college could expect to earn $32k/year, a nice salary back when gasoline was 80 cents a gallon.