The surname is one of the most prevalent surnames in Ireland. It is also very common in Galloway, and the Isle of Man. The name O'Kelly, Kelly, Kelley, Kellie and the Gaelic form O'Ceallaigh, is the most common surname in Ireland. There are approximately half a million people worldwide who bear this name. Up until the 10th century surnames were not used in Ireland.
In other cases the surname Kelly is an Anglicisation of the Irish O ó, cadhla which means descendant Of . Cadhla The’O kelly Or kelly of The clan Brasil Mac coolechan originated as a chieftain clan of The. ulaidh It is also very common in Galloway, and the Isle of Man. The name O'Kelly, Kelly, Kelley, Kellie and the Gaelic form O'Ceallaigh, is the most common surname in Ireland. There are approximately half a million people worldwide who bear this name. Up until the 10th century surnames were not used
Meaning & History. Anglicized form of the Irish given name CEALLACH or the surname derived from it O ó. Ceallaigh as a, surname it has been borne by actor and Dancer Gene (kelly-1912) 1996 and actress and Princess Grace (kelly-1929). 1982 
The name Kelly is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kelly is: warrior. Irish Meaning: The name Kelly is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kelly is: War. Lively. Aggressive. An Irish surname that has only been used as a first name (either gender) in the latter half of the 20th century. Scottish Meaning: The name Kelly is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Kelly is: Wood. Surname and place name that has only been used as a first name (either gender) in the latter half of the 20th century.
Gaelic Meaning: The name Kelley is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kelley is: warrior. American Meaning: The name Kelley is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kelley is: warrior. SoulUrge Number: 1. 
The surname Kelly has multiple origins. There is a Clan Kelly in Scotland, possibly derived from a toponym Kelloe. The Irish surname may be from either O ó ceallaigh OR O, ó cadhla or yet again from a toponym Such, as Kelly near Arbroath, or Kellie. in fife
Kelly is a very popular first name for females (#67 out of 4276, Top 2%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#69 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Kelly for girls. Kelly /kel-ly/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Kelly) is pronounced KEL-ee. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Kelly is  strife, war
The personal name Ceallach has been thought to mean white-headed, but the current understanding is that the name means frequenting churches, derived from the Irish ceall. In other cases the surname Kelly is an Anglicisation of the Irish O ó, cadhla which means descendant Of . cadhla It is also very common in Galloway, and the Isle of Man. The name O'Kelly, Kelly, Kelley, Kellie and the Gaelic form O'Ceallaigh, is the most common surname in Ireland. There are approximately half a million people worldwide who bear this name. Up until the 10th century surnames were not used