In scientific research we have found that the aura is electromagnetic field of energy that extends all around our body for about 4-5feet (in a average healthy body) and appears to be depleted in cases of unhealthy person. The aura of a person is directly connected to the level of health of the person. 
In parapsychology and spiritual practice, an aura is a supposed field of subtle, luminous radiation surrounding a person or object like the halo or aureola in religious art. The depiction of such an aura often connotes a person of particular power or holiness. According to Bruce auras are not actual light but a translation of other unknown sensory readings that is added to our visual processing. They are not seen in complete darkness and cannot be seen unless some portion of the person or object emitting the aura can also be seen.
Create. PlayBuzz. The aura is an electromagnetic field that surrounds every creature that exists. A form of energy emanating from your body, your aura can tell a lot about you, from your personality to your innermost emotions and conflicts. 
For holistic healers, aura reading is the art of investigating the human energy field, or the energy fields of other sentient beings. It is a basis for using techniques of holistic healing, and includes such practices as bioenergetics, energy medicine, energy spirituality, and energy psychology. According to Bruce auras are not actual light but a translation of other unknown sensory readings that is added to our visual processing. They are not seen in complete darkness and cannot be seen unless some portion of the person or object emitting the aura can also be seen.
The aura is the electromagnetic field that surrounds the human body (Human Energy Field-HEF) and every organism and object in the Universe. The Human Energy Field as a collection of electro-magnetic energies of varying densities that permeate through and emit or exit from the physical body of a living person. YELLOW AURA COLOR MEANING: Relates to the spleen and life energy. It is the color of awakening, inspiration, intelligence and action shared, creative, playful, optimistic, easy-going. Light or pale yellow: Emerging psychic and spiritual awareness; optimism and hopefulness; positive excitement about new ideas.
An aura is an energy field that is emitted from all living things. Most of the time, the aura is seen as layers of color around the subject. If you want to become an aura reader, it takes a considerable amount of practice. This article is for beginners with an open mind. 
Migraine with aura is a relatively new name for the less common type of migraine headache. Aura refers to feelings and symptoms you notice shortly before the headache begins. These early symptoms are also called a prodrome. Scientists aren't sure what causes migraines with aura. It's thought that at least two brain chemicals -- serotonin and dopamine -- play a role. According to the theory, something goes awry in the way these chemicals regulate brain function. This may cause the brain and the body's immune system to overreact. Factors suspected of causing migraines with aura include genetics and being overweight. Substances, behaviors, and environment may trigger migraines, as well. It is known that migraines often run in families. They frequently begin in childhood and worsen through adolescence.
Learn all about auras, how to read auras, how to see your aura, aura colors and what each aura color means. All living things that need oxygen to survive have an aura. They generate a large magnetic energy field that can be sensed, felt and even seen around the physical body. An aura is usually 3 feet from your physical body, however an incest or rape survivor has an aura about 50 feet around them, which means in a movie theater or a bus/train you sit in their stuff!!! I can clean this for you.
aura. a peculiar sensation preceding the appearance of more definite symptoms. An epileptic aura precedes an epileptic seizure and may involve visual disturbances, dizziness, numbness, or any of a number of sensations which the patient may find difficult to describe exactly. In epilepsy the aura serves a useful purpose in that it warns of an impending attack and gives the patient time to seek privacy and a safe place to lie down before the seizure actually begins. A migraine aura precedes about 15 per cent of migraine headaches, warning the patient that an attack is imminent.