With all this nice weather around here and talk of my family, I decided to make a familiar snack-poutine. Poutine is a totally authentic Canadian dish. It originated in the French speaking province of Quebec. Poutine is made by taking french fries, sprinkling them with cheese curds, and drizzling gravy over the top. It is a magical combination. Heat the butter and flour in a medium saucepan on low heat until it starts to foam. With a wire whisk, slowly add in the vegetable stock stirring rapidly. Simmer for 15 minutes or until the gravy has thickened, stirring occasionally.
Edit Recipe Add Photos. Author Notes: Poutine is a common Canadian dish made by pouring steamy gravy over cheese curds and french fries. The cheese curds melt into the fries, and it is pure magic. For the longest time I could not find a vegetarian poutine anywhere -- each time I would go back to visit my family in Canada, and waiters would inform me that the gravy was made with beef stock
In the basic recipe for poutine, French fries are covered with fresh cheese curds, and topped with brown gravy. In a traditional Quebec poutine: 1  French fries: Usually of medium thickness, and fried (sometimes twice) such that the inside stays soft, while the outside is crispy. The dish is thought to have originated in rural Quebec, Canada, in the late 1950s and several Canadian communities claim to be the birthplace of poutine, including Drummondville (by Jean-Paul Roy in 1964), Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, and Victoriaville.
The poutine is a dish that originated in Quebec and consists of French fries, brown gravy and cheese curds, you can get it at almost any greasy spoon in Canada and some international fast food giants have even picked it up, distributing their own version. 
The gravy is the only issue. Traditional poutine gravy is made with a combination of beef and chicken broth, but we’re going to get around that and show you how to make an incredibly savory and rich vegetarian gravy. 1 Top freshly cooked fries with the cheese and ladle hot gravy over the top. 2  Serve immediately. * 3 If using frozen fries, it's a good idea to cook the fries as you prepare the gravy. 4  We prefer conventional oven cooking for ease of use.
b. As a vegetarian, I too want poutine gravy without meat juices or flavourings. I've asked a couple of poutine vendors in Ottawa about this. Kindly, they go to their huge cans of gravy powder which is what they use in chip vans to make gravy, probably due to the lack of space in these vehicles for making real gravy.
Since becoming vegetarian, there are very few opportunities where I am able to order poutine at a restaurant, because most serve it with beef gravy. If you can get your hands on some delicious vegetable broth, that is the ticket. Homemade poutine is so easy to make. You should try it yourself! Heat the butter and flour in a medium saucepan on low heat until it starts to foam. With a wire whisk, slowly add in the vegetable stock stirring rapidly. Simmer for 15 minutes or until the gravy has thickened, stirring occasionally.
Rich mushroom gravy and baked fries make a lightened up (and vegetarian!) version of poutine for a perfect winter snack. [shareaholic app=”share_buttons” id=”4705936″]. 1 Whisk together the flour and water in a small dish. 2  Whisk the flour mixture into the gravy. 3  Simmer another 5 minutes. 4  Strain the gravy through a mesh strainer to separate out the solids.Return the gravy to the pan and whisk in the butter.
That’s right, poutine. Full-fledged, Canadian, poutine with fresh, squeaky cheese curds and vegetarian gravy. This is the first time I’ve made real fries and vegetarian gravy, so I was hesitant, but lo and behold with the help of some friends, we produced delicious, cheap poutine. In Ottawa, poutine can range from being $4-7, depending on where you go.