1 also tsar or tzar A male monarch or emperor, especially one of the emperors who ruled Russia until the revolution of 1917. 2  A person having great power or authority: an energy czar. Use czar in a sentence. 1  an emperor: title of any of the former emperors of Russia and, at various times, the sovereigns of other Slavic nations. ⌂ 2  any person having great or unlimited power; autocrat. 3  a person given broad administrative powers to make government policy: the President's
: the title of the ruler of Russia before 1917. : a very powerful person in a particular business or activity. —used as an unofficial title for the person who is in charge of a government office or department. Full Definition of CZAR. 1. : emperor; specifically: the ruler of Russia until the 1917 revolution. 2. — czar·dom also tsar·dom or tzar·dom \ˈzaer-ˈzär, dəm(ˈ)t-\ saer. sär noun
czar. n. 1. also tsar or tzar (zaer, zär) Tsaer tsär a male monarch, or emperor especially one of the emperors Who ruled russia until the revolution. of. 1917 2 a person having great power: or authority an. energy czar , from Greek, from Latin. , emperor; see caesar .]. czar′dom n. Usage Note: The word czar, a borrowing from Russian originally referring to the emperor of Russia, is a cousin of the German word Kaiser; both words descend from the name of the Roman emperor Julius Caesar.
Czar in Nautical Flags. Russian names generally consist of three names. A given name, a patronymic name and a family name. A patronymic name is based on the name of one's father, grandfather, or earlier male ancestor. Russian male patronymic names are formed by adding the suffex-evich or-ovich, female patronymic names by adding the suffex-ovna or-evna.
Reception of the Tsar of Russia in the Moscow Kremlin. Tsar (Old Church Slavonic: ц︢рь (usually written thus with a tilde) or цар, цaрь; also Czar or Tzar in Latin alphabet languages) is a title used to designate certain European Slavic monarchs or supreme rulers. Redrawing of the epitaph of ichirgu boila Mostich. Translation (the title Tsar is enclosed): “Here lies Mostich who was ichirgu-boil during the reigns of Tsar Simeon and Tsar Peter. At the age of eighty he forsook the rank of ichirgu boila and all of his possessions and became a monk.
The spelling czar is the more common form in American English, and is the only one employed in the extended sense “someone in authority,” as in energy czar. noun. 1  also tsar or tzar A male monarch or emperor, especially one of the emperors who ruled Russia until the revolution of 1917. Use czar in a sentence. 1  an emperor: title of any of the former emperors of Russia and, at various times, the sovereigns of other Slavic nations. ⌂ 2  any person having great or unlimited power; autocrat. 3  a person given broad administrative powers to make government policy: the President's
Since the word tsar remained the popular designation of the Russian ruler despite the official change of style, its transliteration of this title in foreign languages such as English is commonly used also, in fact chiefly, for the Russian Emperors up to 1917. Redrawing of the epitaph of ichirgu boila Mostich. Translation (the title Tsar is enclosed): “Here lies Mostich who was ichirgu-boil during the reigns of Tsar Simeon and Tsar Peter. At the age of eighty he forsook the rank of ichirgu boila and all of his possessions and became a monk.
The term 'czar,' is a word of Balkan origin etymologically originating from the name Caesar, as does the word 'tsar,' a title of sovereignty adopted by late Rurukid-dynasty (Ivan III and Ivan IV the Terrible in particular) rulers of Muscovy. Czar is an informal title for certain high-level officials in the United States and the United Kingdom. Political czars can run or organize governmental departments, and may devote their expertise to a single area of work