Imitation Crab. Imitation crab is steamed white fish with crab juice added for flavorings. A red food coloring is also added to mimic the appearance of boiled crab. Imitation crab is used for the California roll, and although it is not considered an expensive sushi roll, some care should be taken when choosing an imitation crab.
Imitation crab is formed to look like real crab legs. Imitation crab is made with a type of fish called surimi. Manufacturers add fillers, flavoring and color to surimi to mimic the taste, texture and color of real crab legs. Imitation crab meat is a versatile ingredient that costs far less than the real thing. The meat can be used in many dishes and contains certain nutrients that are essential in a healthy diet.
Fake crab meat is not as nutritious as real fish and seafood. Fake crab meat, also called imitation crab, does not contain any crab meat at all. Its Japanese name, surimi, actually means ground meat. Fake crab meat is made of various types of fish ground together into a paste. Imitation crab can be shaped to resemble crab legs or shrimps and is often used in Japanese fish salads and sushi because of its cheaper cost.
Such a product often is sold as krab, imitation crab and mock crab in the United States, and as seafood sticks, crab sticks, fish sticks or seafood extender in Commonwealth nations. In Britain the product is sometimes known as Ocean sticks, to avoid trading standards issues regarding mis-advertisement. Surimi (Japanese: 擂 り 身, すり身, literally  ground meat ) refers to a paste made from fish or other meat, as well as multiple Asian foods that use surimi as its primary ingredient.
Surimi is made of different kinds of fish, which are ground together into a paste. According to SF Gate, manufacturers add starch, artificial flavors, sodium and sometimes MSG. Because starch is often made from wheat, imitation crab meat is not gluten free. Here's the truth: The California roll contains no crab meat at all. The red and white crab stick -- often referred to as imitation crab -- does indeed come from the sea. In Japanese, crab stick is called  surimi , which actually means ground meat.. It's kind of the ocean's version of the hot dog, if you need an analogy
Crab sticks-imitation crab meat made from surimi. Sugiyo Kaori-bako. Crab sticks (imitation crab meat, seafood sticks, krab) are a form of kamaboko, a processed seafood made of finely pulverized white fish flesh (surimi), shaped and cured to resemble leg meat of snow crab or Japanese spider crab. Contents.
Im new to the sushi game, so far so good, Nicccce... I dont eat raw fish or any other crazy rolls... Just the crab shrimp or veg rolls. Ive noticed that the crab in these rolls is always imitation crab meat. 