What is WAIVER? The renunciation, repudiation, abandonment, or surrender of some claim, right, privilege, or of the opportunity to take advantage of some select, irregular-Vity, or wrong.
A waiver is the voluntary relinquishment or surrender of some known right or privilege. Regulatory agencies or governments may issue waivers to exempt companies from certain regulations. For example, a United States law restricted the size of banks, but when banks exceeded these sizes, they obtained waivers. An example of a written waiver is a disclaimer, which becomes a waiver when accepted. When the right to hold a person liable through a lawsuit is waived, the waiver may be called an exculpatory clause, liability waiver, legal release, or hold harmless clause.
Waiver. The intentional and voluntary giving up of a right, either by an express statement or by conduct (such as by not enforcing a right). A waiver accomplished by conduct may be interpreted as giving up the right to enforce the same right in the future.
The term waiver is used in many legal contexts. A waiver is essentially a unilateral act of one person that results in the surrender of a legal right. The legal right may be constitutional, statutory, or contractual, but the key issue for a court reviewing a claim of waiver is whether the person voluntarily gave up the right. A criminal defendant may waive the right to remain silent and make a confession, but the law enforcement officials must demonstrate to the court that the waiver was the product of a free and deliberate choice rather than a decision based on intimidation, coercion, or deception.
Waiver of Contract Law & Legal Definition. Waiver of contract is a voluntary and intentional relinquishment or renunciation of a contract right by some positive act or omission inconsistent with the existence of such right. The following is an example of a case law referring to waiver of contract: Forfeiture clauses of a contract may be waived where one party, either by his statements or a course of conduct, leads the other party to believe that he will not insist on forfeiture.
Waiver of Defenses Law & Legal Definition. In real estates, the waiver of defense is entered as a document where the mortgager acknowledges that the mortgage is good and valid for the full amount of the mortgage note. Through this document the mortgagor is ceased from raising any defense. 
Waive. To intentionally or voluntarily relinquish a known right or engage in conduct warranting an inference that a right has been surrendered. For example, an individual is said to waive the right to bring a tort action when he or she renounces the remedy provided by law for such a wrong. 
The Court then adopted these words: The primary meaning of the word waiver in legal parlance is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted. 
Waiver in the World Encyclopedia of Law. Notice This definition of Waiver is based on the The Cyclopedic Law Dictionary. This entry needs to be proofread. Related Entries of Waiver in the Encyclopedia of Law Project. Browse or run a search for Waiver in the American Encyclopedia of Law, the Asian Encyclopedia of Law, the European Encyclopedia of Law, the UK Encyclopedia of Law or the Latin American and Spanish
Full Definition of WAIVER. 1. : the act of intentionally relinquishing or abandoning a known right, claim, or privilege; also: the legal instrument evidencing such an act. 2. : the act of a club's waiving the right to claim a professional ball player who is being removed from another club's roster —often used in the phrase on waivers denoting the process by which a player to be removed from a roster is made available to other clubs. See waiver defined for English-language learners.