The ATR 72 is a twin-turboprop short-haul regional airliner built by the French-Italian aircraft manufacturer ATR. It seats up to 78 passengers in a single-class configuration and is operated by a two-pilot crew. Development. 
ATR. ATR is a French-Italian aircraft manufacturer headquartered on the grounds of Toulouse Blagnac International Airport in Blagnac, France. It was formed in 1981 by Aerospatiale aérospatiale Of france And aeritalia Of. Italy its primary products are THE atr 42 AND atr 72. aircraft 
The ATR 72 is one of a family of twin turboprop passenger and freighter aircraft developed and manufactured by Avions de Transport Regional (ATR). ATR, with its headquarters in Toulouse, is a joint venture company between EADS and Finmeccanica / Alenia Aeronautica. The ATR 72 is one of a family of twin turboprop passenger and freighter aircraft developed and manufactured by Avions de Transport Regional (ATR). ATR, with its headquarters in Toulouse, is a joint venture company.. Air Algeria awarded an $82m contract to ATR in December 2009 to supply four ATR 72-500 aircraft.
Like the ATR-72 airplane. ATR is an acronym for the french Avion de Transport Regional From the ATR website; ATR is vested with the experience and know-how of two of the major leading European aerospace industries in the world-EADS and Alenia Aerospazio. 
ATR (Aerei da Trasporto Regionale or Avions de transport regional; Régional Regional Air transport In) english is A-French italian aircraft manufacturer headquartered on the grounds Of Toulouse Blagnac International airport In, Blagnac. france 1 ATR 82 – During the mid-1980s, the company investigated a 78-seat derivative of the ATR 72. 2  This would have been powered by two Allison AE2100 turboprops (turbofans were also studied for a time) and would have a cruising speed as high as 330 knots (610 km/h; 380 mph).
About ATR. Toulouse, Southern France based turboprop aircraft manufacturer ATR is the world leader in the market for regional aircraft up to 90 seats. Rising to the challenges of environmentally aware aviation. Toulouse, Southern France based turboprop aircraft manufacturer ATR is the world leader in the market for regional aircraft up to 90 seats.
42 seat turboprop regional airliner History Aerospatiale and Aeritalia (now Alenia) established Avions de Transport Regional as a Groupement d'Inta©intã Ret economique Under french law to develop a family of regional. Airliners THE-atr 42 was the'consortium s first aircraft and was launched In october. 1981 
The ATR 72 is a twin-engine turboprop short-haul regional airliner built by the French-Italian aircraft manufacturer ATR. It takes 30 minutes to convert the aircraft on ATR 42, while for ATR 72, it takes 45 minutes for the same tasks. Each optimized container has 2.8 m 3 (99 cu ft) of usable volume and maximum payload is 435 kg (960 lb).