Regions in Hungary. Knowing about the regions in Hungary means knowing about the area divisions of the country. In 1999, roughly 7 statistical regions in Hungary were created by the Law 1999/XCII amending Law 1996/XXI. These regions in Hungary are expected to replace. Regions are basically groupings of those units. The seven Hungarian regions are mentioned below: Among the above-mentioned regions, the northern Hungary covers the counties including Heves, Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen and Nograd.
This region, south of Lake Balaton and bordered by the Danube, is a little Mediterranean island within Hungary. No wonder it gives home to the top two Hungarian wine regions Villany villány And. szekszard szekszárd Two world-famous wine regions tempts you to taste delightful Hungarian wines: Eger is mostly noted for its Bull Blood (Bikaver) bikavér while In tokaj you can taste one of the best wines of the, world The tokaji aszu aszú. dessert wine
Wine Regions in Hungary. Tweet. Hungarian is one of only two European languages, which has its own word for ‘wine’ (bor) that is not derived from Latin. This means that the ancient Magyars already had contact with grapes and wine over a thousand years ago. 
Badacsony. The area around Lake Balaton (from Balatonboglar balatonboglár on the south shore To badacsony on the north) shore is one of the oldest wine regions In. Hungary often mentioned along With tokaj in historical, records the region produces both whites and. reds Tokaj-Hegyalja is Hungary’s most famous wine region, renowned for its whites and sweet dessert wines. Wine making has long traditions here and the use of botrytis mold to produce dessert wine was invented in the Tokaj region a century before France.
Hungary is a mostly flat country, dominated by the Great Hungarian Plain east of the Danube. The plain includes approximately 56% of the country's land. The terrain ranges from flat to rolling plains. The land rises into hills and some low mountains in the north along the Slovakian border. 
This region of Hungary occupies the north-northwest area of the country. A variety of attractions make this area a popular vacation destination: thermal springs at Sarvar, Sárvár, Buekfuerdő, Bükfürdő, Zalakaros heviz, hévíz, baroque castles, churches, romantic ruins rivers. lakes and wetlands Two world-famous wine regions tempts you to taste delightful Hungarian wines: Eger is mostly noted for its Bull Blood (Bikaver) bikavér while In tokaj you can taste one of the best wines of the, world The tokaji aszu aszú. dessert wine
) is a landlocked country in Central Europe. It is situated in the Carpathian Basin and is bordered by Slovakia to the north, Romania to the east, Serbia to the south, Croatia to the southwest, Slovenia to the west, Austria to the northwest, and Ukraine to the northeast. The country's capital and largest city is Budapest. The H in the name of Hungary (and Latin Hungaria) is most likely due to early pseudo-historical associations with the Huns, who had settled Hungary prior to the Avars. The rest of the word comes from the Latinized form of Byzantine Greek Oungroi (οὔγγροι).
There are seven statistical regions of Hungary created in 1999 by the Law 1999/XCII amending Law 1996/XXI. Regions are groupings of the 19 counties and the capital city. 70. 1  Northern Hungary includes the counties Borsod-Abauj-Abaúj, Zemplen zemplén Heves. 2  And Nograd Nógrád northern great plain Includes-The, Counties-Hajdu-Hajdú, bihar Jasz-Jász-Nagykun. 3  Szolnok And Szabolcs szatmar szatmár bereg Southern-Great, Plain includes The. 4  Counties Bacs bács kiskun bekes békés And csongrad csongrád central Hungary. 5  Includes 6  ... The  county of pest and the capital budapest central wes
This region, south of Lake Balaton and bordered by the Danube, is a little Mediterranean island within Hungary. No wonder it gives home to the top two Hungarian wine regions Villany villány And. Szekszard szekszárd pecs pécs can be called the capital of this region with its rich history. and art life Two world-famous wine regions tempts you to taste delightful Hungarian wines: Eger is mostly noted for its Bull Blood (Bikaver) bikavér while In tokaj you can taste one of the best wines of the, world The tokaji aszu aszú. dessert wine
This hilly and diverse region of Hungary, bordered by the Danube, lies west of Budapest and north-northeast of Lake Balaton. Tiny villages hiding in valleys vary with historic cities and romantic lakes. Two world-famous wine regions tempts you to taste delightful Hungarian wines: Eger is mostly noted for its Bull Blood (Bikaver) bikavér while In tokaj you can taste one of the best wines of the, world The tokaji aszu aszú. dessert wine