Plasma Membrane. All living cells, prokaryotic and eukaryotic, have a plasma membrane that encloses their contents and serves as a semi-porous barrier to the outside environment. The membrane acts as a boundary, holding the cell constituents together and keeping other substances from entering. The plasma membrane is permeable to specific molecules, however, and allows nutrients and other essential elements to enter the cell and waste materials to leave the cell.
Like all biological membranes, the cell membrane consists of a fluid phospholipid bilayer containing proteins and other molecules. Biological membranes are selectively permeable, which means that although some molecules can diffuse across the membrane, many molecules cannot. 1 Biological membranes are. , 2  which means that although some molecules can diffuse across the membrane, many molecules cannot. 3  This means that the cell membrane can form a barrier-keeping some molecules, such as poisons, OUTSIDE the cell, and keeping other molecules, such as nutrients, INSIDE the cell.
The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. 
Figure 1: The lipid bilayer and the structure and composition of a glycerophospholipid molecule. (A) The plasma membrane of a cell is a bilayer of glycerophospholipid molecules. (B) A single glycerophospholipid molecule is composed of two major regions: a hydrophilic head (green) and hydrophobic tails (purple). (C) The subregions of a glycerophospholipid molecule; phosphatidylcholine is shown as an example. 
That's because all cells are surrounded by a structure called the cell membrane — which, much like the walls of a house, serves as a clear boundary between the cell's internal and external environments. The cell membrane is sometimes also referred to as the plasma membrane. If the DNA within a cell is not separated from the cytoplasm, then that cell is a prokaryote. All known prokaryotes, such as bacteria and archaea, are single cells. In contrast, if the DNA is partitioned off in its own membrane-bound room called the nucleus, then that cell is a eukaryote.
The cell membrane (or. ) surrounds all living cells. It controls how substances can move in and out of the cell and is responsible for many other properties of the cell as well. The membranes that surround the nucleus and other organelles are almost identical to the cell membrane. 1 Cell Membrane (or Plasma Membrane). 2  This is a thin, flexible layer round the outside of all cells made of phospholipids and proteins. 3  It separates the contents of the cell from the outside environment, and controls the entry and exit of materials. 4  The membrane is examined in detail later.
Active Transport. Endocytosis and Exocytosis. The Structure of the Cell Membrane The cell membrane (or plasma membrane) surrounds all living cells, and is the cell's most important organelle. It controls how substances can move in and out of the cell and is responsible for many other properties of the cell as well
1 Cholesterol is not found in the membranes of plant cells. 2  Glycolipids are located on cell membrane surfaces and have a carbohydrate sugar chain attached to them. 3  They help the cell to recognize other cells of the body. 
The Cell Membrane is a Fluid Mosaic. A cell is the basic unit of life, and all organisms are made up of one or many cells. One of the things that all cells have in common is a cell membrane. It is a barrier that separates a cell from its surrounding environment. This outer boundary of the cell is also called the plasma membrane. Carbohydrates, or sugars, are sometimes found attached to proteins or lipids on the outside of a cell membrane. That is, they are only found on the extracellular side of a cell membrane. Together, these carbohydrates form the glycocalyx. The glycocalyx of a cell has many functions.