With the merger, Kraft’s products will benefit from Heinz’s presence outside the U.S. The two companies also expect to trim $1.5 billion in annual costs by the end of 2017. “This is my kind of transaction, uniting two world-class organizations and delivering shareholder value,” Buffett said in the statement. Berkshire and 3G will invest $10 billion in the deal, which values Kraft at about $46 billion, before net debt, based on its stock price Tuesday and the cash payment investors will receive. The merger creates a stable of household names -- everything from Heinz ketchup to Jell-O -- with revenue of about $28 billion.
The Kraft Heinz Company Announces Successful Completion of the Merger between Kraft Foods Group and H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation Combination Creates Unparalleled Portfolio of Powerful and Iconic Brands. PITTSBURGH, Pa. and NORTHFIELD, Ill. pleased to announce the successful completion of the merger between Kraft and Heinz. The transaction creates the third-largest food and beverage company in North America and. the fifth-largest food and beverage company in the world with an unparalleled portfolio of. iconic brands.
The $70 billion combination of Kraft and Heinz is a big, big deal, but it is perhaps most interesting for how the parties have agreed to run the combined company. It is also an odd deal from the start. Kraft shareholders will receive one share of Heinz stock for each share of Kraft stock. This is par for the course. 
The Kraft Heinz Company is a multinational food company formed as a result of the merger between Kraft Foods and Heinz. The Kraft Heinz Company now has 13 different brands valued at $500 million or more each. The merger has been agreed to by the boards of both companies, with approvals by shareholders and regulatory authorities.
1 Combined company to be named The Kraft Heinz Company and to be co-headquartered in Pittsburgh and the Chicago area. 2  The new company will have revenues of approximately $28 billion with eight $1+ billion brands and five brands between $500 million-$1 billion. Global Brand Portfolio Powerhouse. The combination of these iconic food companies joins together two portfolios of beloved brands, including Heinz, Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Ore-Ida and Philadelphia. Together the new company will have eight $1+ billion brands and five brands between $500 million and 
The combination of these iconic food companies joins together two portfolios of beloved brands, including Heinz, Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Ore-Ida and Philadelphia. Together the new company will have eight $1+ billion brands and five brands between $500 million and $1 billion. The combined companies will generate about $28 billion in annual revenues. Each Kraft shareholder will get a $16.50 cash dividend, according to the release. Shareholders will also have a 49% stake in the combined company. Existing Heinz shareholders will own 51% of the new company, according to the release.
Kraft Foods Group. Heinz and Kraft have just announced a merger that will make the unified companies into the fifth-largest food and beverage company in the world, according to a press release. Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital are investing $10 billion in the combined company, which will be called The Kraft Heinz Company. The combined companies will generate about $28 billion in annual revenues. Each Kraft shareholder will get a $16.50 cash dividend, according to the release. Shareholders will also have a 49% stake in the combined company. Existing Heinz shareholders will own 51% of the new company, according to the release.
The new company is expected to become the fifth-largest food and beverage company in the world and the third-largest in the United States. The company will have dual headquarters in Pittsburgh and Chicago, the respective headquarters of Heinz and Kraft. Under the merger, Kraft's shareholders received 49% of shares in the combined company, plus a one-time payment of US$16.50 dividend per share. The Kraft Heinz Company now has 13 different brands valued at $500 million or more each. The merger has been agreed to by the boards of both companies, with approvals by shareholders and regulatory authorities.
As a combined company, Kraft Heinz will have revenue of about $28 billion, with eight individual brands each reporting sales of at least $1 billion a year, and five brands with $500 million to $1 billion in sales. McCormick. $2.4. Heinz will control 51 percent of the combined company, while Kraft shareholders, who have yet to vote on the deal, will own 49 percent. Kraft shareholders will receive a special cash dividend of $16.50 a share, or about $10 billion, to be paid for by 3G Capital and Berkshire.