Abstract. The line joining the superior aspect of the iliac crests posteriorly (the intercristal line) is commonly stated to cross the midline at the L4 or L4–5 spinal level on imaging. 
The location of the superior border of the iliac crest relative to theL4 lumbar spine level was compared between radiographs.RESULTS: Preoperatively, the iliac crest aligned with L4/L4–L5 spinal level in 79.2% of the 48patients compared with 85.5% of intraoperative cases (p5.59). 
The anterior superior iliac spine (abbreviated: ASIS) is a bony projection of the iliac bone and an important landmark of surface anatomy. It refers to the anterior extremity of the iliac crest of the pelvis, which provides attachment for the inguinal ligament, and the sartorius muscle.
Structure [edit]. The iliac crest stretches posteriorly from the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) to the posterior superior iliac spine (PSIS). Behind the ASIS, it divides into an outer and inner lip separated by the intermediate zone. The outer lip bulges laterally into the iliac tubercle. The iliac crest has a large amount of red bone marrow, and thus it is the site of bone marrow harvests (from both sides) to collect the stem cells used in bone marrow transplantation.
The iliac crest is in the middle of anterior and posterior superior iliac spines. The highest part of the iliac crest is at the level of L4 vertebra. The iliac tubercle lies 2 inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine and is at the level of the L5 vertebra [ 2 ]. Picture 1: Surface Anatomy of the Iliac Crest. The iliac crest is the margin of the ileum. It is a curved, broad structure made to protect the insides of the pelvic region. It serves as an attachment of muscles, aponeurosis, and fascia of the nearby structures [ 1 ].
The crest of the ilium (or iliac crest) is the superior border of the wing of ilium and the superolateral margin of the greater pelvis. The iliac crest has a large amount of red bone marrow, and thus it is the site of bone marrow harvests (from both sides) to collect the stem cells used in bone marrow transplantation.
Iliac Crest. The iliac crest is the curved superior border of the ilium, the largest of the three bones that merge to form the os coxa, or hip bone. It is located on the superior and lateral edge of the ilium very close to the surface of the skin in the hip region. From the anterior superior iliac spine, the iliac crest continues around the superior edge of the ilium as a flattened enlargement of the ilium.... Click to read more below. The iliac crest is the curved superior border of the ilium, the largest of the three bones that merge to form the os coxa, or hip bone.
The reproducibility of the iliac crest as a marker of lumbar spine level. Render CA(1). Author information: (1)Southampton Genral Hospital. Comment in Anaesthesia. 1997 Aug;52(8):811. The postero-anterior lumbar spine X rays of 163 patients undergoing investigation for back pain were reviewed and the spinal level marking the intersection of a line joining the iliac crests was determined. 