Attorney’s fees are generally the bulk of the cost associated with creating a trust. The cost for an attorney to draft a living trust can range from $1,000 to $1,500 for individuals and $1,200 to $2,500 for married couples. 
Not surprisingly, the more issues that went to trial, the more the divorce cost. The consumers who went to trial on any issue in their case reported spending an average of $19,600 in costs, including $15,800 for attorney's fees. 
The cost of hiring a criminal attorney depends a great deal on the nature and severity of the charges, the complexity of the case, the lawyer's years of experience and the size of the law firm, among other factors. Fees can vary significantly in different cities, counties and states. Comments (2). The cost of hiring a criminal attorney depends a great deal on the nature and severity of the charges, the complexity of the case, the lawyer's years of experience and the size of the law firm, among other factors. Fees can vary significantly in different cities, counties and states. Typical costs:
Believe it or not, rates may vary anywhere from $50 an hour to a $1,000 an hour or more. In rural areas and small towns, lawyers tend to charge less, and fees in the range of $100 to $200 an hour for an experienced attorney are probably the norm. In major metropolitan areas, the norm is probably closer to $200 to $400 an hour. Lawyers with expertise in specialized areas may charge much more. A good paralegal's time, for example, may be billed out at $50 to a $100 an hour or perhaps more. It would not be unusual for a legal secretary's time on things like document production to be billed out at perhaps $25 to $50 an hour. What About Expenses and Court Costs? Little things add up.
1 A lawyer will almost always want to meet and discuss the specific circumstances of your case before quoting a fee, either an hourly rate ($100-$300) or a flat charge based on the type of case, such as $500-$1,200 for first-time drunk driving charges. Comments (2). The cost of hiring a criminal attorney depends a great deal on the nature and severity of the charges, the complexity of the case, the lawyer's years of experience and the size of the law firm, among other factors. Fees can vary significantly in different cities, counties and states. Typical costs:
This time, your contract stated that costs and expenses would be deducted from your share of the settlement. Your attorney incurred $5,000 in costs and expenses. In this situation, your attorney would receive $30,000 for attorney’s fees and an extra $5,000 as reimbursement for the costs and expenses. You would end up receiving $55,000 as a final recovery ($60,000 - $5,000 = $55,000). Not all cases will involve a pure contingency fee arrangement.
For example, attorneys may charge an hourly rate, a flat fee, or a contingency fee. Each type of fee is discussed in greater detail below. Before you hire an attorney, make sure you have reached a clear agreement--in writing--about how the attorney will be paid and the fees and costs to be charged. Hourly Rates. Many attorneys charge an hourly rate for their services and that of their colleagues in their law firm. When you find an attorney you want to hire, be sure that you have a clear understanding of the scope of the attorney’s representation. It is important to discuss with the attorney how the attorney plans to do his or her job for you.
Whether they bill by the hour or by the case, defense lawyers typically want defendants to pay a retainer fee up front, before the attorney begins working on the case. For example, a lawyer who bills at the rate of $100 an hour may want clients to pay up front for 20 hours of the lawyer’s time, or $2,000. 
Hourly Rates. An hourly rate is a predetermined amount chargeable for the attorney's work. The attorney and client may agree that these fees be paid periodically or in one lump sum at the end of the case. The time that an attorney charges for legal work is called billable time, or billable hours. Hourly rates vary according to the attorney's expertise and experience. Contingent fees are a gamble for the attorney. If the client does not win the case, or wins less than anticipated, the attorney may work for little or no pay. Contingent fee percentages vary from case to case. Common contingent fees range from 20 to 40 percent of the client's recovery.