1 Get out of bed early or fish in the evening-snapper feed at those times, as they prefer low light for camouflage. 2  When fishing for snapper you’re best to fish in reef areas with a consistent current. 3  Snapper are bottom feeders so make sure your line is weighted properly. 4  Use berley. Snapper feed in the early morning and evening, making them perfect times to fish. Here are ten must-know tips to reel in those snapper: 1 
The Australasian snapper or silver seabream, Pagrus auratus, is a species of porgie found in coastal waters of Australia, Philippines, Indonesia, China, Taiwan, Japan and New Zealand its distribution areas in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres are disjunct. The legal size in Australia varies by state, from 35 cm and a bag limit of five fish per person in Queensland to 50 cm in Western Australia. During spawing, these fish obtain a metallic green sheen which indicates a high concentration of acid buildup within the scales' infrastructure.
Snapper aquaculture has become an important industry in recent years. At Pisces Marine Aquaculture, fish are reared in a 10 m deep, nylon-netted enclosure offshore near Port Stephens, New South Wales. Farmed fish are exposed to more sunlight than wild fish and have a darker colouration. 
Although it is almost universally known in Australian and New Zealand as snapper, it does not belong to the Lutjanidae family of snappers. It is highly prized as an eating fish. The taxonomic status of this species is being debated, and it may be referred to as either Pagrus auratus or Chrysophrys auratus. The legal size in Australia varies by state, from 35 cm and a bag limit of five fish per person in Queensland to 50 cm in Western Australia. During spawing, these fish obtain a metallic green sheen which indicates a high concentration of acid buildup within the scales' infrastructure.
Description. Also known as Macolor Snapper, Black and White Snapper, Black and White Sea Perch, Black Beauty and Black Beauty Snapper. Found singly or in small schools close to reefs with rich coral growth, on steep slopes, passes and outer reefs as well as lagoons. They feed on fish and invertebrates. Length - 60cm.
Australia: cocknies (young smaller than legal size), red bream or pinkies (legal size), squire or squirefish (when bigger), snapper (at full size). The legal size in Australia varies by state, from 35 cm and a bag limit of five fish per person in Queensland to 50 cm in Western Australia. During spawing, these fish obtain a metallic green sheen which indicates a high concentration of acid buildup within the scales' infrastructure.
They can be prepared in a wide range of ways including grilling, poaching, deep frying, shallow frying, baking and steaming. Simple pan-frying allows for a range of different flavours and textures to be utilised. Saddletail Snapper are often large, but the smaller fish are excellent baked whole (gilled and gutted). Lay fillets on a bed of leeks and fennel with a small amount of fish stock.
In usage, it may refer to: 1  Several species from the genus Lutjanus 2  : Lutjanus campechanus, Northern red snapper, commonly referred to as red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico and western Atlantic Ocean. 1 Lutjanus purpureus, Southern red snapper, is one of several Lutjanus species called red snapper (or by the Spanish name huachinango) in the Caribbean. 2  Red snappers from Southeast Asian waters may be Lutjanus species.
1 Lutjanus campechanus, Northern red snapper, commonly referred to as red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico and western Atlantic Ocean. 2  Lutjanus purpureus, Southern red snapper, is one of several Lutjanus species called red snapper (or by the Spanish name huachinango) in the Caribbean. 1 Lutjanus purpureus, Southern red snapper, is one of several Lutjanus species called red snapper (or by the Spanish name huachinango) in the Caribbean. 2  Red snappers from Southeast Asian waters may be Lutjanus species.