Asymptomatic in-stent restenosis developed in 12 carotids (11%), ﬁve of whichrequired endovascular intervention, with a mean of 6 months to restenosis. Univariate Cox proportional hazardregression models were used to determine risk factors for the development of restenosis. The purposeof this study was to identify risk factors in already high-riskpatients that would predict an increased risk for in-stentrestenosis. METHODS All patients undergoing CAS between the years 2002and 2004 were retrospectively reviewed.
Conclusions The greater loss in minimal lumen diameter and the consequent higher rate of restenosis at culprit compared with nonculprit lesions suggest that local “lesion-related” factors are an important determinant of the high rate of restenosis when coronary angioplasty is performed in patients with unstable angina. Numerous experimental observations suggest that local factors play a major role in the pathophysiology of restenosis. Angioplasty is invariably associated with arterial injury that provides a potent stimulus for both platelet adhesion and platelet aggregation.
PTCA was performed using the standard technique in our institution. At the start of the procedure, all patients were administered heparin (10 000 IU IV) and isosorbide dinitrate (1 to 2 mg IC). In our institution, angiography is routinely performed in two projections before and immediately after angioplasty. Numerous experimental observations suggest that local factors play a major role in the pathophysiology of restenosis. Angioplasty is invariably associated with arterial injury that provides a potent stimulus for both platelet adhesion and platelet aggregation.
Abstract. Background Restenosis rates are high when coronary angioplasty is performed in patients with unstable angina. The relative contributions of local and systemic factors to this excess risk of restenosis are unclear. Numerous experimental observations suggest that local factors play a major role in the pathophysiology of restenosis. Angioplasty is invariably associated with arterial injury that provides a potent stimulus for both platelet adhesion and platelet aggregation.
High-risk patients include those with clinically sig-niﬁcant cardiac disease, severe pulmonary disease, contralat-eral carotid occlusion, contralateral laryngeal-nerve palsy, re-current stenosis after endarterectomy, and previous radicalneck surgery or radiation to the neck. The purposeof this study was to identify risk factors in already high-riskpatients that would predict an increased risk for in-stentrestenosis. METHODS All patients undergoing CAS between the years 2002and 2004 were retrospectively reviewed.
In this study, the overallincidence of 60% restenosis was 12%, and the overall inci-dence of restenosis that required reintervention was 4.6%,which is similar to the 2.4% to 14% found by otherinvestigators. The purposeof this study was to identify risk factors in already high-riskpatients that would predict an increased risk for in-stentrestenosis. METHODS All patients undergoing CAS between the years 2002and 2004 were retrospectively reviewed.
Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed a cumulative freedom from in-stent restenosis at 24 months of 88% 6% in patients without neck cancer compared with 27% 17% (P .02) in patients with neck cancer. The purposeof this study was to identify risk factors in already high-riskpatients that would predict an increased risk for in-stentrestenosis. METHODS All patients undergoing CAS between the years 2002and 2004 were retrospectively reviewed.