But, the refrigerator will only keep food safely cold for about four hours if unopened during a power outage, according to the USDA. A full freezer will hold the temperature for about 48 hours if full (24 hours of half full), the USDA says. More from Medfield Patch. Generally, if the temperature in the thermometer in the freezer reads 40 degrees Fahrenheit or below, the food is safe and can be refrozen, according to the USDA. The USDA suggests obtaining dry or block ice to help keep refrigerated or frozen food cold if the power will be out for an extended period of time.
Perishable food in a refrigerator lasts about four hours without power, as long as the door is kept closed. Opening the door lets some of the cold escape and increases the temperature in the fridge, so keep it closed as long as possible. A refrigerator thermometer helps you keep an eye on the temperature. Freezer. Items stored in a freezer compartment will last longer than in the fridge because the temperature is cooler and the items have been frozen. A freezer that's full may keep food cool enough to be safe for 24 hours. Freezer food that thaws to above 40 degrees Fahrenheit for more than two hours should be discarded
Much of that depends on how long your power has been out, and how much you have inside your fridge or freezer. According to the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA), a full freezer will stay frozen for 48 hours, while a half-full freezer will keep its cool for 24. A refrigerator, meanwhile, will stay keep food cold for four hours, as long as it isn't opened.
A full freezer will hold the temperature f … or approximately 48 hours (24 hours if it is half full) if the door remains closed. Obtain dry or block ice to keep your refrigerator as cold as possible if the power is going to be out for a prolonged period of time. If the power is off for longer than 4 hours, you may need to check the temperature inside to see if it is in the danger zone.       You should keep foods out of the danger zone to prevent bacteria from forming on foods. Bacteria can form on foods in the danger zone after just an hour.
They said that food will last about 4 to 6 hours depending on how cold you kept the fridge/freezer and how much was in it. I don't suggest eating anything in the fridge since it has been 24 without power even though the fridge hasn't been opened unless it is something like water or anything that will not spoil. If you have not opened the fridge it is probably still OK. However, since it has been 24 hours, I would suggest getting the milk and lunch meat out and putting it on ice. If you have a deep freeze (separate unit not on fridge) the frozen food will stay cold longer. Just don't open it up.
Deep freezers keep food colder than attached freezers. This extends the length of time you can freeze items safely. For that reason, as long as you keep the door(s) closed, a chest-style deep freezer will keep foods frozen for up to 72 hours without power. Thankfully, our outage was over by 1 a.m., so it only lasted for seven hours. Our refrigerator suffered the only losses of the night
If the power is out for less than 2 hours, then the food in your refrigerator and freezer will be safe to consume. While the power is out, keep the refrigerator and freezer doors closed as much as possible to keep food cold for longer. If the power is out for longer than 2 hours, follow the guidelines below: 
The refrigerator: how long will foods remain safe without power? · All foods: at least 4 hours, if the fridge is left unopened. · Discard after 4 hours without power: Meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cooked leftovers, soft cheeses, deli cold cuts/salads and other perishable foods.