State regulations may put restrictions on what duties an LPN/LVN can perform or how much RN and physician supervision is required. Licensed practical nurse training typically covers a wide variety of topics, such as pediatric nursing and emergency care, so LPN/LVN graduates can be well-versed in all areas of their job.
The acronym LPN stands for Licensed Practical Nurse. Some states refer to this job as an LVN or Licensed Vocational Nurse. What the LPN does depends on the “scope of practice” laws in the state where you work. Each state board of nursing regulates what the LPN can and cannot do. In general, LPN's provide patient care in a variety of settings within a variety of clinical specializations.
Role of an LPN. LPN s provide patient care in a variety of healthcare settings. They are most often found in nursing homes, group homes, private homes or similar locations. They often work under the supervision of an RN or doctor and may be responsible for the oversight of nursing aides.
Licensed practical nurses (LPNs) work with doctors and registered nurses to perform health care tasks, such as measuring vital signs and observing patients. To become an LPN, you need to complete a practical nursing training program and pass a licensing exam. Keep reading to find out more about what an LPN does.
Career Overview. As a licensed practical nurse, also called a licensed vocational nurse (LVN), your job duties will be to provide basic care and assistance for sick, injured, disabled, and other patients in a variety of settings.
But I keep hearing how LPN's can't do this and can't do that. I'm in North Carolina and I've seen many job openings for LPN's so I'm not worried about not being able to find a job. Also, the NCLEX pass rate for LPN's at my school is 100% whereas the pass rate for the ADN students is 77%.
You'll be an important part of the health care team in your role as a licensed practical or vocational nurse. Licensed practical and licensed vocational nurse (LPN or LVN) jobs are actually the same role despite the slight difference in name. The LVN title is only used in Texas and California. The job involves a variety of daily tasks ranging from dressing wounds to feeding infants.