Used in the made-for-tv Disney movie, apropriately titled 'susie q'. The movie was about a ghost. Tiga-Mount Carmel, Pa. This song is heavily influenced by Howlin' Wolf's Smokestack Lightning, similarly George Thorogood's Bad to the Bone is a strong reminiscent of Muddy Waters' Hoochie Coochie Man.till love Susie Q for that easy, sleazy, funky swamp music. Raunchy-Tulsa, Ok. Susie Q was the first song I heard that turned me on to CCR. I was in the Army's 82nd Airborne at Fort Bragg NC in 1968 & whenever they let us go into town (Fayetteville NC), this was already on local tavern jukeboxes.
The raw, bluesy swamp-rock sound of the original Susie-Q grew out of a childhood steeped in rural country and blues music. He was born Delmar Allen Hawkins on Aug. 22, 1936, on a plantation in Gold Mine, La., to a country musician and his wife, who was a teacher and day worker.
The single was titled Susie Q (part 1).. The B-side was Susie Q (part 2).. This is one of the few Creedence songs where vocals of band members besides John Fogerty are heard. You can hear them in the second part of the song.till love Susie Q for that easy, sleazy, funky swamp music. Raunchy-Tulsa, Ok. Susie Q was the first song I heard that turned me on to CCR. I was in the Army's 82nd Airborne at Fort Bragg NC in 1968 & whenever they let us go into town (Fayetteville NC), this was already on local tavern jukeboxes.
Thanks to this, girls named Susie are automatically nicknamed Susie Q.. The guitar riff on the original version was created by James Burton, who was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001 as a sideman.till love Susie Q for that easy, sleazy, funky swamp music. Raunchy-Tulsa, Ok. Susie Q was the first song I heard that turned me on to CCR. I was in the Army's 82nd Airborne at Fort Bragg NC in 1968 & whenever they let us go into town (Fayetteville NC), this was already on local tavern jukeboxes.
Hawkins cut Susie Q at the KWKH Radio station in Shreveport, Louisiana. Susie Q was a late rockabilly song which captured the spirit of Louisiana and featured guitar work by James Burton, who also worked with Ricky Nelson, among others. John Fogerty stated in a 1993 interview with Rolling Stone magazine that his purpose in recording Susie Q was to get the song played on KMPX, a funky progressive-rock radio station in San Francisco, which is why the song was extended to eight minutes in length.
Susie Q  is a song by Louisiana-born singer and guitarist Dale Hawkins (1936–2010). John Fogerty stated in a 1993 interview with Rolling Stone magazine that his purpose in recording Susie Q was to get the song played on KMPX, a funky progressive-rock radio station in San Francisco, which is why the song was extended to eight minutes in length.
Susie Q is a song by Louisiana-born singer and guitarist Dale Hawkins (1936–2010). Perhaps the most famous cover version is by Creedence Clearwater Revival on their debut album released in 1968. 
1 Susie Q (song) , a 1957 song by Dale Hawkins, covered by many artists.  2 Suzi Q (Ammonia song) , 1996. 3  Suzi Quatro, singer and actress also known as Suzi Q.  4 Suzi Q, song by Suzi Quatro from the 1990 album Oh, Suzi Q. 5  Suzie Q (dance move) , a dance step in the Big Apple, Lindy Hop, and other dances. 1 Susie Q (born Susan Banfield), a member of rap duo Cookie Crew.  2
Sometime after the recording, the master tape of Susie Q was sold to Checker Records in Chicago, which released it as a 45 RPM single in May 1957. The single peaked at numbers 7 and 27 on Billboard magazine 's Hot R&B Sides and Hot 100 charts, respectively. John Fogerty stated in a 1993 interview with Rolling Stone magazine that his purpose in recording Susie Q was to get the song played on KMPX, a funky progressive-rock radio station in San Francisco, which is why the song was extended to eight minutes in length.