Goals Describe the roles of organisms and the flow of energy within an ecosystem Be able to identify the roles of producers, consumers and decomposers in a community Be able to construct a food chain/food web and explain the flow of energy beginning with sunlight and including producers, consumers and decomposers. Changes in anything one thing in the ecosystem will have an effect on other things within this environment. All organisms are a part of a food chain which are part of a bigger food web. All organisms must adapt to the conditions of their environment if they are to survive. Thinking ….
1 Describe the difference between herbivores, carnivores and producers. 2  Answer questions about the interdependence of herbivores, carnivores and producers as members of a food chain. 3  Answer questions about how pollution affects food chains. 1 Secondary Consumers Secondary consumers make up the third level of the food chain. 2  Secondary consumers feed on smaller, plant-eating animals (primary consumers). 3  Examples of secondary consumers include bluegill, small fish, crayfish and frogs. 4  Top Predators Top predators are at the top
Changes in one population affect other populations in a food web because everything is connected. For example, lets say there is grass, bunny, and fox. If the grass dies out, … then the bunnies have no food and they die. Then the foxes have no food because there are no bunnies. Suppose the population of one organism in a food web changes. A population is all the members of a single type of organism in an environment. Kelp Forests. When one population in a food web changes, all the populations in the food web can also be affected.
When you factor in other species that feed on the same organism, then the chain becomes a web. Freshwater At the base of the freshwater food web are again the producers, such as phytoplankton, algae, duckweed, and lily pads. Describe zooplankton, phytoplankton, producers, consumers (primary, secondary, tertiary), ecosystem, herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers. Ask and discuss what & how human impacts affect the food chain/web and ecosystems.
After all, we are at the top of the food chain. A pollutant's damage to the food chain depends on various factors. When considering the effects of water pollutants on food chains we must examine specific pollutants including how they enter the water, how they move through the food chain, and how we deal with pollutants. 
Biotic Factors. At the base of a food web are producers, or autotrophs, which produce their own food through photosynthesis, such as trees and shrubs. Consumers, or heterotrophs, are those organisms that cannot make their own food, and therefore must eat producers or other consumers to gain energy. Although the organisms may be different, the order, producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers, and tertiary consumers, is always the same. For the purpose of this lesson, we will focus on aquatic food webs, both salt and freshwater.
Abiotic Factors. Although not often included in the food web, abiotic factors or the non-living aspects of an ecosystem (water, sunlight, temperature, etc.) play an important role. Climate will decide which food resources, and how much water and sunlight, are available to organisms in any given environment. Although the organisms may be different, the order, producers, primary consumers, secondary consumers, and tertiary consumers, is always the same. For the purpose of this lesson, we will focus on aquatic food webs, both salt and freshwater.
Biotic (Living) Factors. The living factors in an environment are called biotic factors. Trophic levels, or the feeding levels within a food pyramid, begin with producers at the base, which produce their own food through photosynthesis. This group contains the greatest amount of energy within a food web or chain. Describe zooplankton, phytoplankton, producers, consumers (primary, secondary, tertiary), ecosystem, herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers. Ask and discuss what & how human impacts affect the food chain/web and ecosystems.
Abiotic (Non-Living) Factors Although, not often included in the food web, abiotic factors or the non-living aspects (water, sunlight, temperature, etc.) play an important role. Climate will decide which food resources, and how much water and sunlight are available to organisms in any given ecosystem. Describe zooplankton, phytoplankton, producers, consumers (primary, secondary, tertiary), ecosystem, herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers. Ask and discuss what & how human impacts affect the food chain/web and ecosystems.