Colorectal cancer usually begins as a polyp, a nonspecific term to describe a growth on the inner surface of the colon. Polyps are often non-cancerous growths but some can develop into cancer. The two most common types of polyps found in the colon and rectum include: 1  Hyperplastic and inflammatory polyps. 2  Usually these polyps do not carry a risk of developing into cancer. 3  However, large hyperplastic polyps, especially on the right side of the colon, are of concern and should be completely removed. 1 Usually these polyps do not carry a risk of developing into cancer. 2  However, large hyperplastic polyps, especially on the right side of the colon, are of concern and should be completely removed. 3  Adenomas or adenomatous polyps. 4  Polyps, which, if left alone, could turn into colon cancer.
A polyp is a projection (growth) of tissue from the inner lining of the colon into the lumen (hollow center) of the colon. Different types of polyps look different under the microscope. Polyps are benign (non-cancerous) growths, but cancer can start in some types of polyps. 
It is like the more testing they do the more antecdotal (things that are not important or related to what they are searching for). findings they will find. Every time they image my kidney they see a cyst on my left kidney and two Ureters on the left kidney. Neither is important they are just there. Read More. One way to rule this out is to have a colonoscopy, because if it's in your family you would have colon polyps by now. The polyps don't turn cancerous until the late 30's to early 40's. If it's the attenuated form then the cancer starts in the late 40's to early 50's.
Colorectal cancers often start out as polyps -- harmless growths on the inside of the intestines. The two most common types of intestinal polyps are adenomas and hyperplastic polyps. They form when there are problems with the way cells grow and repair the lining of the colon. Most polyps stay harmless, but some can turn cancerous. Removing them early prevents the disease. Tumor size doesn’t always make a difference. Staging also helps your doctor decide what type of treatment you get. 1  Stage 0 -- Cancer is only in the innermost lining of the colon or rectum. 2  Stage I -- Cancer has grown into the muscle layer
Polyps can be benign or cancerous, it's the number of polyps that determine if this is a colon disease. The gastro doc will know all about this. 3. Colon cancer at your age is unheard of, but not polyps. There is a colon disease that presents with many polyps, it's FAP. It's in our family and your Gastroenterologist will know if this is what this might be. The polyps can be removed during a colonoscopy, which isn't really surgery. Read More. One way to rule this out is to have a colonoscopy, because if it's in your family you would have colon polyps by now. The polyps don't turn cancerous until the late 30's to early 40's. If it's the attenuated form then the cancer starts in the late 40's to early 50's.
Bowel (colonic) polyps are small non-cancerous (benign) growths on the inside lining of the colon or back passage (rectum). They are common in older people. They usually cause no symptoms or problems. This is because there is a small risk of a bowel polyp developing into a bowel cancer after several years. A bowel polyp is a small non-cancerous (benign) growth that sometimes form
Colorectal cancer often begins as a benign growth known as a polyp. Adenomas are a type of polyp and are benign tumors of the tissue lining the colon or rectum. Most polyps will stay benign, but some adenomas have the potential to turn into cancer over the long term. If they are removed early, this prevents them from turning in to cancer. 
1 Flat polyps are the least common type of colon polyp, and are flat or even slightly depressed. 2  These may be difficult to identify because they are not as prominent as polypoid or sessile polyps with the commonly-available methods of diagnosing polyps. 