Enquire about a low rate home loan now. 58 Ravenswood Road, Ravenswood, TAS 7250 3 1 1 Affordable Living On a flat block and with some updating already completed (colorbond roof, aluminium windows and new vinyl), this home is a great chance to get into the housing market.
Ravenswood has great views. It is only 5 mins drive to the Launceston CBD. A cheap buy in area and has good rental yields for investors, as has an area of housing commission owned homes, so some stigma attached.
Ravenswood is located in Tasmania, near areas such as Newstead, Norwood, East Launceston, Launceston and St Leonards. Other nearby locations include Riverside, Prospect, Prospect Vale, Breadalbane and Devon Hills.
WILLO RAVENSWOOD ~ Tasmania, Australia~. Posted on Jan 21, 2014 by Bridget Nielsen in Hybrid Parents | 1 comment. Mother of Hermes, Asher, Kora, Griffin, Sandor and more… Counterpart to Willa Hillicrising.
Investment data. 14 Mangana street, Ravenswood, TAS 7250 3 1 0 Investor or first home buyer Here is an opportunity to invest in a lower priced property .To live in or rent out, with good returns. 3 bedroom brick on large block, freshly painted inside and out, new fences and has large shed at the rear of the block.
Ravenswood has unfairly suffered do to negative publicity. Old Ravenswood is less than a 5 minutes drive to the City.With a Chemist, brand new Family Centre and Community Centre, Seniors Club,Supermarket and Public Library plus public transport Ravenswood caters to seniors and families alike.
14 Mangana street, Ravenswood, TAS 7250 3 1 0 Investor or first home buyer Here is an opportunity to invest in a lower priced property .To live in or rent out, with good returns. 3 bedroom brick on large block, freshly painted inside and out, new fences and has large shed at the rear of the block.
Welcome to Ravenswood Heights Primary School. The current browser does not support Web pages that contain the IFRAME element. To use this Web Part, you must use a browser that supports this element, such as Internet Explorer 7.0 or later.