Strahd's Possession is not a linear game, so this walkthrough is only one order of events while many others will also lead to a successful game completion. Some quests are optional, and have no direct influence on completing the game.
The outer cover was a display cover in keeping of the style of Dungeons & Dragons module covers of the time. The outer (glossy) side of the inner cover gave a map of the lands of Barovia where Castle Ravenloft and the village of Barovia are located. Maps of the castle Ravenloft were found on the inside of both covers.
The first Ravenloft novel Vampire of the Mists by Christie Golden (1991) and I, Strahd by P. N. Elrod (1993) both, from different perspectives, tell the history of Strahd, Barovia and Castle Ravenloft in a way that is generally compatible with the storyline of the module.
The land of Barovia does not exist on any prime material plane as one might expect. It exists in what is known as a demiplane, an alternate time-space existence-a pocket dimension, which consists of a collection of land pieces called domains brought together by a mysterious force known only as The Dark Powers.
INTRODUCTION. This walkthrough assumes you have read the Strahd's Possession manual and are familiar with operating the game's user interface. You should also have a reasonable knowledge of how best to equip your party of characters and how and when to use spells. This is not a detailed step by step set of instructions.
Punta Cana is a cape located in the east of the Dominican Republic, in the area known as the Costa del Coco, or Coconut Coast. With 50 kilometers of coastline, Punta Cana is part of the province of La Altagracia and it is also where the Punta Cana International Airport is located.
Barovia is a demiplane located within the Nexus. Unlike most of the other Nexus demiplanes, Barovia has a scholarly reputation and mythology that has traveled outside of
Mists. Although the Mists are part of the mythology of Barovia, they may be a means of travel both to and from this location within the Nexus. Moreover, Astinus seemed to indicate Strahd's usage of the mists as a means to breach from the Inner Nexus into Sigil.