The Peace Corps has programs in 73 countries around the world. There are programs in Mexico and Central America, South America, Eastern Europe, China, India and other Asian nations, the Pacific Islands and extensive programs in Africa [Source: The Peace Corps ].
READ MORE. The Peace Corps is a program that seeks to promote world peace and understanding by sending American volunteers to serve at the grassroots level in villages and towns across the globe.
The Corps' budget is part of the federal foreign operations budget (typically about one percent of it), and is also subject to congressional approval. For fiscal year 2006, the total Peace Corps budget was $318.8 million [Source: The Peace Corps ].
Sec. 2501-1. Independent agency status of Peace Corps Effective on December 29, 1981, the Peace Corps shall be an independentagency within the executive branch and shall not be an agency within the ACTIONAgency, the successor to the ACTION Agency, or any other department or agencyof the United States.
The Peace Corps is a U.S. government program designed to provide foreign aid to developing nations in the form of expertise, education and training.
Since the Peace Corps was established in 1961, more than 200,000 volunteers have served in 139 host countries working on issues like education, health, information technology, and environmental preservation.
The Peace Corps is an independent U.S. government agency that operates within the executive branch. The director of the Corps is appointed by the president pending congressional approval.
The Peace Corps has a three-part mission statement [Source: The Peace Corps 1  ]. Help the people of interested countries in meeting their need for trained men and women. 2  Help promote a better understanding of Americans on the part of the peoples served.
The executive departments are the major operating units of the federal government, but there are many other agencies which have important responsibilities for keeping the government and the economy working smoothly. These are often called independent agencies, since they are not part of the executive departments.