E-mail this story to a friend. 1963: Kennedy shot dead in Dallas The President of the United States has been assassinated by a gunman in Dallas, Texas. 1963: Kennedy shot dead in Dallas. John F Kennedy was hit in the head and throat when three shots were fired at his open-topped car. The presidential motorcade was travelling through the main business area of the city.
Another involves a theory that the Mafia was working with anti-Castro exile groups that were trying to take down JFK. A LOOK BACK: The moments before JFK's death. President John F. Kennedy riding in motorcade approximately one minute before he was shot in Dallas, Texas, in Nov. 22, 1963. Also in the car are Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy and Gov. and Mrs. John Connally of Texas. (Photo: Photo: AP). 
On November 22, 1963, president John F. Kennedy is assassinated in Dallas. Lee Harvey Oswald is arrested for the crime and subsequently shot by Jack Ruby, supposedly avenging the president's death. 
John Fitzgerald Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was assassinated at 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time (18:30 UTC) on Friday, November 22, 1963, in Dealey Plaza, Dallas, Texas. However, Kennedy's assassination is still the subject of widespread debate and has spawned numerous conspiracy theories and alternative scenarios. Polling in 2013 showed that 60% of Americans believe that a group of conspirators was responsible for the assassination.
About This Site | Text Only. 1963: Kennedy shot dead in Dallas The President of the United States has been assassinated by a gunman in Dallas, Texas. John F Kennedy was hit in the head and throat when three shots were fired at his open-topped car. 1963: Kennedy shot dead in Dallas. John F Kennedy was hit in the head and throat when three shots were fired at his open-topped car. The presidential motorcade was travelling through the main business area of the city.
President John F. Kennedy moments before he was assassinated on November 22, 1963, in Dallas. Despite the assassinations of three U.S. presidents -- Abraham Lincoln, James Garfield and William McKinley -- killing or attempting to harm a president wasn't a federal offense until 1965, two years after Kennedy's death. 1 President John F. Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963. 2  His assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, was shot and killed while in police custody. 3  Investigations over the decades revealed countless facts -- and new questions about the case.
In 1964, the Warren Commission concluded that only Lee Harvey Oswald was responsible for the assassination of Kennedy. In 1979, the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) concluded that a second gunman besides Oswald probably fired at Kennedy. 
No other vehicle is as seared into the memory of a nation as the Lincoln limousine President John F. Kennedy rode in during his assassination on November 22, 1963, in Dallas. Five decades after those gunshots forever changed a nation, that same limo remains on display at The Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Michigan. 
Kennedy becomes fourth president to be assassinated. On this day in 1963, the nation is shocked by the assassination of its president, John F. Kennedy. Kennedy was riding in an open car in Dallas, Texas, when a gunman named Lee Harvey Oswald fired three shots at him from an upper-level window of a nearby building. Kennedy was... On this day, President John F. Kennedy is assassinated in Dallas. Kennedy took office on January 20, 1961. From the start of his term, he was faced with a deteriorating situation in Southeast Asia, in which both Laos and South Vietnam were threatened by communist insurgencies.
Post. Share. On November 22, 1963, the youth and idealism of America in the 1960s faltered as its young President, John F. Kennedy, was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald while riding in a motorcade through Dealey Plaza in Dallas, Texas. Two days later, Oswald was shot and killed by Jack Ruby during a prisoner transfer. The Warren Commission found: 1  Lee Harvey Oswald was the lone assassin and conspirator in the death of President John F. Kennedy. 2  A single bullet caused non-fatal wounds to both Kennedy and Connelly. 3  Jack Ruby acted alone in his assassination of Oswald and did not conspire with anyone to commit this act.