Transition Time. If your cat has been eating a steady diet of commercial junk food his entire life, it’s important to realize up front that transitioning him to a raw diet might take some time as well as some persistence, perseverance, and above all, a good bit of patience on your part. And then again, it might not. 
we have a duck breast in sealed plastic which is within date. we've never bought raw duck before, so i don't know how it smells. we did have some things go bad in the fridge last week, but have since turned the temp down. i think it smells like a slightly strong smelling raw meat (like raw lamb smells), but... 
I have always relied on my sense of smell to determine whether meat (most often chicken) is bad and I thought it was reliable. The same is with almost all other food poisoning stuff-if your fish smells like it has had a quite long sunbath, it most probably isn't save to eat any longer. If your chicken feels like somebody oiled it with egg white, it has had some quite similar treatment by some small guys you dead sure don't like to eat.
You can usually tell if meat has spoiled by a change in color, odor, and texture. Spoiled meat will usually be gray to brown in color, have an acid or yeasty odor and will be … slimy and even mushy to the touch. Eating raw meats causes food poisoning to humans, and is most likely to cause food poisoning in dogs too. Be aw … are that any gone off raw foods can be quite dangerous to you and your dog. Don't feed your dog raw lamb. It can easily make them ill.
Woman holding a spoiled steak in a store Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. One of the best ways to identify spoiled meat is to smell it. When a bacterium breaks down the meat, it changes the smell of it. If you notice an ammonia or sulfur smell, bacteria has multiplied and is eating the meat. A rancid smell or flavor may also be due to bacterial multiplication or may be due to improper wrapping of the meat. If you notice an onion flavor (or other odd flavors), this is probably due to storing the meat next to onions (or other foods).
Report Abuse. Yes raw chicken has a smell to it. It can smell like a stale fart or even like your womanly parts do when you pull down your pants after a hard day at work and you need a loo.... Sort of inner thigh smell, but it does not mean that the chicken is off at all... Just cook the stuff and let him tast
If you have a strong smelling one, rinse it and leave it sit out or in the fridge for 20-30 mins. The smell will disappear. I dip, rinse, and dry my meat before I put on my prep table anyway whether it has an odor or not... References.... “The acceptance of the meat odor was consistent with the irradiation odor intensity. As the irradiation odor intensity increased, the preference of meat odor decreased. Most trained panelists rated irradiation odor as an off-odor
In order to get the grass smell out of the milk, the farmer has to tie the cow up for a 2 hours prior to milking. This works for both goats and cows. As far as meat goes, a farmer should confine the steer for 3 days and feed hay. If your meat smells like fish, that is a good thing, omega 3 fatty acids…. 
Deodorize: A simple way to remove potential stench is to cut out red meat all together. If a vegetarian's life is not for you, try cutting out some meat and replace it with seafood or veggie dinners. Curry/Cumin. The taste of Tikka chicken may not be worth the lingering stench that comes with it. 