A rat's ribs are hinged at the spine, enabling it to easily squeeze through the tightest spaces—like the pipes draining your toilet. And rats are great swimmers too; they can hold their breath for up to three minutes. See how quickly a rat can go from the city streets to your bathroom. 
Snakes aren't the only animals known to lurk in toilets. Still from  Snake in the Toilet  on YouTube. In a city in Australia, two different several-foot-long pythons have been found in two separate toilets in the space of a couple weeks, according to CNN. One of the most well-known bathroom assailants is the rat. A 1999 article in the Richmond Times Dispatch (available in the Nexis news database) reported that a Petersburg, Va., woman was sitting down on the toilet when a rat “jumped up out the commode” and bit her.
Frogs. Aside from a few poisonous species and stories of great plagues, frogs are generally a very relaxed amphibian that is not recognized for their human interaction. However, a large majority of frogs are found to live in damp places. Enter your plumbing. Urban myth or not — the Horizon Comfort Zone Blog takes a precautionary look at 4 creatures that could be capable of finding their way through your plumbing and emerging through your toilet bowl.
If even the thought of toilet snakes sends chills down your spine, take heart; while it's certainly possible for a snake to end up in your toilet, it's extraordinarily unlikely. The very reason that these stories make headlines is that they are so very rare, and so shiver-inducing [source: Wickman ]. Fortunately, there's no guarantee that this snake traveled through the pipes at all. He may have gotten in some other way and simply curled up in the toilet to relax. Not exactly a soothing thought, but better than imagining a snake entering through the pipes every time nature calls.
So whether your problem is a frog, snake cockroach or rat in the toilet, you can feel confident that our product will protect you, your home and most importantly your family from whatever might crawl up the sewers. 1 Prevent cross flow in back to back fitted toilets. 2  Minimise the backflow of sewage waste in the case of a blockage in underground pipes. 3  Help in flood prone areas by preventing solid matter coming back up into the toilet – In heavy rain water levels rise and snakes, rats, frogs etc. enter the pipes as a means of escape.
MikeLane45/iStock/Getty Images. If you're the squeamish type, you may not want to know this, but snakes can get into your toilet, and we're not talking about plumbing augers. When you're using the toilet, the only thing between you and the sewer is about 10 inches of water, and many types of snakes can slither through that. It may help to know it happens rarely, and most snakes that can navigate water pipes are small and nonvenomous. A loose cover on your septic tank or a break in the sewer line can provide the necessary access, and while it's unlikely for a snake to crawl through vertical pipes to an upper bathroom, the critter could emerge from a toilet on the ground floor.
With over 20 years of experience in the plumbing industry we know just how common it is for rats and other pests to make their way into your toilet, bringing diseases and other threats into your home. In some parts of the world you could even wake up to finding a snake in the toilet. If you want to make absolutely sure you don't wake up to find a rat in your toilet there is a simple solution however-our patent-pending MultiFlap vermin prevention device. 1 Prevent cross flow in back to back fitted toilets. 2  Minimise the backflow of sewage waste in the case of a blockage in underground pipes. 3  Help in flood prone areas by preventing solid matter coming back up into the toilet – In heavy rain water levels rise and snakes, rats, frogs etc. enter the pipes as a means of escape.
lol Actually No, a Goldfish cannot swim back up the toilet. The construction of the trap (the hole in the bottom of the fixture) prevents water from backing up into the toilet (see links for a picture). the only way this might be possible is if the toilet is clogged. (the water can't go down the drain and overflows). 1 person found this useful.
And not just by snakes. One of the most well-known bathroom assailants is the rat. A 1999 article in the Richmond Times Dispatch (available in the Nexis news database) reported that a Petersburg, Va., woman was sitting down on the toilet when a rat “jumped up out the commode” and bit her.
After all, many of the snakes found in toilets are simply not native to the areas where they were found. It's much more likely that they escaped or were liberated by owners who no longer wanted them then that a nest of nonnative snakes is setting up home in a sewer pipe [source: Vettel ]. Fortunately, there's no guarantee that this snake traveled through the pipes at all. He may have gotten in some other way and simply curled up in the toilet to relax. Not exactly a soothing thought, but better than imagining a snake entering through the pipes every time nature calls.