1 The neck brace should be snug enough that you can't move your head, and your chin should not slide inside or stick out over the collar. 2  The lower edge of the neck brace should rest comfortably against your body, with only the padded area touching your skin. 1 The most common reason is to relieve pain. 2  The neck brace helps your neck support the weight of your head while the soft tissues in your neck have a chance to heal. 3  You may need a neck brace after spinal neck surgery to keep your neck bones in line while you heal.
One very common use for a neck brace is for a neck injury sustained in a car accident — according to one study, more than a million cases of whiplash occur in the United States every year and nearly two-thirds of the victims will develop neck pain. 1 The most common reason is to relieve pain. 2  The neck brace helps your neck support the weight of your head while the soft tissues in your neck have a chance to heal. 3  You may need a neck brace after spinal neck surgery to keep your neck bones in line while you heal.
Neck Brace: When It’s Used. There are three reasons you might need to wear a neck brace: 1  The most common reason is to relieve pain. 2  The neck brace helps your neck support the weight of your head while the soft tissues in your neck have a chance to heal. 1 The most common reason is to relieve pain. 2  The neck brace helps your neck support the weight of your head while the soft tissues in your neck have a chance to heal. 3  You may need a neck brace after spinal neck surgery to keep your neck bones in line while you heal.
Symptoms of whiplash. Whiplash causes pain, tenderness, stiffness and loss of movement in the neck. You may also experience headaches, muscle spasms and pain in your arms or shoulders. If you have whiplash, the ligaments in your neck will be overstretched. This is known as a sprain. 
If you ride a motorcycle in any shape or form, you should be wearing a Leatt neck brace. Period. After my experiences with the neck brace, as a medical doctor, a motorcycle rider, and a crash victim, I feel I have an obligation and a duty to tell everyone about this device. A neck brace, like a helmet, should be an essential part of your gear.
A good neck brace should be able to slow the head in a controlled manner, and have failure points where the brace will break or deform, under extreme forces, so that it cannot cause damage to the rider. Or Not: The “feel” of riding with a brace is a subjective thing that each rider needs to try for himself. It should be said, though, that a brace must fit property to function properly and feel right. So a “test ride” with a buddy’s brace should include fitting it properly to you.
Whiplash is very treatable, and very often, the first treatment tried is a cervical brace, also known as a cervical collar. The brace will provide support to your neck as the soft tissues (muscles, ligaments, etc.) heal from the whiplash injury. Those soft tissues are supposed to help support your neck, but of course, when they're injured, they can't do their job very well. That's where the brace is very useful. Cervical braces or collars limit movement and support your head, taking the load off your neck. This gives your muscles a chance to rest while healing. (Lying down has a similar effect.). Your doctor will let you know how long you have to wear the brace.
3. You should wear a neck brace if you have a whiplash neck injury. 'If there is no fracture and just whiplash, research has found that wearing a brace is detrimental'. 4. Ultrasound for the recovery of ankle sprains. 5. 
Painkillers and anti-inflammatories. Analgesics (painkillers) can be used to help relieve the pain of a whiplash injury. Paracetamol is recommended to treat mild neck pain. You should use it regularly rather than only when the pain is most severe. If your neck pain is severe, your GP will be able to prescribe a stronger painkiller, such as codeine. Neck movement. If you have whiplash, it's important to keep your neck mobile by doing some gentle neck exercises. Your neck may be painful, but keeping it mobile from an early stage will improve its movement and speed up your recovery.