The average age of first-time mothers is increasing because more women are waiting until their 30s and 40s to start having kids and fewer women are having their first kids in their teens and 20s, the CDC report says. In 1970, only 1.7 out of 1,000 women were having their first child between the ages of 35-39 years.
College-educated women are unlikely to have a child before getting married For college-educated women, the average age of first birth (30) has risen along with the average age of marriage (27). Only 12 percent of births by college graduates are to unmarried women.
The average age of women having their first child was a record high of 26 years old in 2013, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Vital Statistics Report.
1 Blacks' and Hispanics' views on women's ideal age skew younger than whites'. 2  Majorities of U.S. whites, blacks, and Hispanics believe the ideal time for a woman to have her first child is by age 25. 3  However, the proportion saying so is greater among blacks (67%) and Hispanics (68%) than among whites (56%).
Finishing full-time e ducation and training at an older average age is the main reason why people are having their first child later in life, scientists said. Researchers from the University of Southampton looked at women in Britain and France to try and explain the fertility trend.
Data from the World Bank show the seven countries where the average age of women giving birth to their first child is above 30 (Greece, Australia, South Korea, Japan, Italy, Switzerland, and Luxembourg, according to the CIA World Factbook) all have general fertility rates below what's called the replacement rate.
Still, the average perceived ideal age for each gender to have children differs only slightly: 25 for women and 27 for men. The results are based on an Aug. 22-31 Gallup survey, in which 5,100 national adults were asked a number of questions about having children.
The average age of women at their first birth has also risen over the past 4 decades, and since 2000, 46 states and DC have experienced a rise in the first-birth rate for women over 35.
The average age of American women having their first child reached a record high of 26 years old in 2013, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Vital Statistics Report.
In 2000 the average age of women at first birth ranged from a high of 27.8 years in Massachusetts to a low of 22.5 in Mississippi. The difference between the State with the highest and lowest average age has increased over the past 30 years.