1 For example, if I contributed $10,000 into a spousal RRSP in May 1, 2011, then my wife can withdraw the $10,000 on Jan 1, 2014 and be taxed in her hands. 2  To reduce the overall wait time, I could contribute to the spousal RRSP on Dec 31, 2011, and withdraw on Jan 1, 2014 bringing the total wait time of 2 years. 1 Otherwise, the withdrawal will be taxed in the hands of the contributor. 2 
Funds in an RRSP cannot be moved or transferred to an RRSP that does not have the same annuitant as the RRSP where the money is coming from. For example, you cannot transfer funds in your RRSP to a spousal or common-law partner RRSP. If you cannot contribute to your RRSP because of your age, you can still contribute to your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP until the end of the year he or she turns 71. For more information, see RRSP options when you turn 71.
Contributions you make to a spousal or common-law partner RRSP reduce your RRSP deduction limit. The total amount you can deduct for contributions you make to your RRSP or your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP cannot be more than your RRSP deduction limit. If you cannot contribute to your RRSP because of your age, you can still contribute to your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP until the end of the year he or she turns 71. For more information, see RRSP options when you turn 71.
In a spousal RRSP, the plan is registered in your spouse’s name and controlled by her or him. As for all tax situations, the rules apply equally to common-law partners and married couples of either or the same sex. They allow for income balancing if you make more money than your spouse. In Canada, couples that have equal income basically receive double the tax deductions. Spousal RRSPs are a way for couples to split retirement income. The money you put into an RRSP is allowed to grow tax deferred.
There are several types of registered retirement savings plans: individual, spousal, and group RRSP. The individual plan is associated with one account holder who is referred to as the contributor. With spousal RRSP, one is entitled to put contributions into the retirement savings plan of one s spouse. When both partners withdraw their savings after retirement, they may pay a lower combined income tax (in comparison to what one would pay if savings were on a single account). 
If you contributed amounts to your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP in 2012, 2013, or 2014, you may have to include in your 2014 income all or part of the amount your spouse or common-law partner withdrew in 2014 from his or her spousal or common-law partner RRSP. If you cannot contribute to your RRSP because of your age, you can still contribute to your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP until the end of the year he or she turns 71. For more information, see RRSP options when you turn 71.
No contributions can be made to a deceased individual’s RRSP after the date of death. However, the deceased individual’s legal representative can make contributions to the surviving spouse’s or common-law partner’s RRSP in the year of death or during the first 60 days after the end of that year. If you cannot contribute to your RRSP because of your age, you can still contribute to your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP until the end of the year he or she turns 71. For more information, see RRSP options when you turn 71.
1 In a spousal RRSP, the higher income spouse will contribute to the plan. 2  The higher income spouse can then claim the tax deduction. 3  For all intents and purposes, the money within the spousal RRSP now belongs to the lower income spouse. 1 Otherwise, the withdrawal will be taxed in the hands of the contributor. 2  For example, if I contributed $10,000 into a spousal RRSP in May 1, 2011, then my wife can withdraw the $10,000 on Jan 1, 2014 and be taxed in her hands.