The team decided to use the Chinese system as a model in order to aid their understanding of Mayan medicine as Western medicine is so far removed from traditional Mayan medicine. In doing so many parallels and similarities of the two ancient medicinal practices were found. In the midline of the face, on the hairline of the forehead Called shenting in Chinese. In Mayan medicine this is generally punctured in conjunction with the afore mentioned point. Both practices use this point in the treatment of headaches. The Chinese also use this point for cases of insomnia, hysteria and asthma.
These civilizations were thousands of years apart from each other, yet they show remarkable similarities in the way that they keep and record time. As talked about in lecture, the Egyptians had two different calendars, a civil calendar and religious calendar. What I found so surprising was that the Aztecs also had a very similar two calendar system, even though both civilizations were on opposite sides of the world from each other and more than 2000 years apart.
The symbols had no relation at all to the language of either civilization. Egypt called this writing hieroglyphics. This writing was used chiefly in recording spells and keeping records. Similarly, Chinese writing was used for keeping a record of trade and money transactions. Since China and Egypt were both isolated from the outside, they developed with a strong focus on technology and learning with strong governments to hold the nations together. One similarity between the two is writing.
Modern china. Similarities to Ancient China:The similarities between Modern and Ancient China are, though ancient China is larger, both are massive Countries, they both have very powerful armies, are ahead in their warfare and weapons and main religion is mostly Confucius. 
Points which where Mayan and Chinese Acupuncture correspond (see diagrams for position of points). Between the eyebrows This is considered a crucial point because the blood of the head runs through it. In Chinese medicine this point is known as yintang and is also considered very important. In the midline of the face, on the hairline of the forehead Called shenting in Chinese. In Mayan medicine this is generally punctured in conjunction with the afore mentioned point. Both practices use this point in the treatment of headaches. The Chinese also use this point for cases of insomnia, hysteria and asthma.
Text Preview. Ancient civilizations have a lot of similarities and differences. The two civilizations are the Aryans and the Shang. The Aryans ruled over India from 1500 B.C. to 1000B.C. The Shang ruled over china from 1750 B.C. to 1122 B.C. The Aryans and Shang had similarities and differences in writing, religion, and Technology.
It is called sidu in Chinese and is situated between the ulna and the radius. Its purpose is to open the orifices and clear the brain, ears and the throat. In addition to shoulder pain, the Chinese use this point in the aid of painful gums and teeth, deafness and rigidity and paralysis of the fingers. In the midline of the face, on the hairline of the forehead Called shenting in Chinese. In Mayan medicine this is generally punctured in conjunction with the afore mentioned point. Both practices use this point in the treatment of headaches. The Chinese also use this point for cases of insomnia, hysteria and asthma.
There were four main ancient River Valley civilizations: the Fertile Crescent of Mesopotamia, the Nile River of Egypt, the Indus River of India, and the Yellow River of China. These civilizations showed specific similarities and contrasting differences. Since China and Egypt were both isolated from the outside, they developed with a strong focus on technology and learning with strong governments to hold the nations together. One similarity between the two is writing.
ancient china. Similarities to Modern China: The similarities between Modern and Ancient China are, though ancient China is larger, both are massive Countries, they both have very powerful armies, are ahead in their warfare and weapons and main religion is mostly Confucius.
What are the similarities and differences of ancient China and Greece? I could only think about the difference like how Greece had the Polis and was several City-States, essentially Greece was composed of several countries. China, on the other hand, was unified under Qin. That's the only difference I could think of. You better compare ancient Greece with other small collections of city states, like the Middle Ages Italy, the Ancient Mayas and others. China is more similar to the development of larger Empires in the west, like Rome.