The white lipid material that insulates the axon of a neuron is called myelin. In the central nervous system, myelin is created by oligodendrocytes while in the peripheral ner … vous system the myelin is created by Schwann cells. The purpose of myelin is to speed up action potentials. 
(Science: cell biology) a long process of a neuron, that carries efferent (outgoing) action potentials from the cell body towards target cells. Each nerve cell has one axon, which can be over a foot long. A nerve cell communicates with another nerve cell by transmitting signals from the branches at the end of its axon. At the terminal end of the axon, the impulses are transmitted to other nerve cells or to effector organs.
Noun. 1. axon-long nerve fiber that conducts away from the cell body of the neuron. axone. nerve fiber, nerve fibre-a threadlike extension of a nerve cell. nerve cell, neuron-a cell that is specialized to conduct nerve impulses. nerve end, nerve ending-the terminal structure of an axon that does not end at a synapse.
Noun. 1. axon-long nerve fiber that conducts away from the cell body of the neuron. axone. nerve fiber, nerve fibre-a threadlike extension of a nerve cell. nerve cell, neuron-a cell that is specialized to conduct nerve impulses. nerve end, nerve ending-the terminal structure of an axon that does not end at a synapse.
See: dendrite. Long nerve Fiber that conducts away from the cell body of the neuron .Part of the nerve cell that conducts electrical impulses. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. Each nerve cell has one axon, which can be over a foot long. A nerve cell communicates with another nerve cell by transmitting signals from the branches at the end of its axon. At the terminal end of the axon, the impulses are transmitted to other nerve cells or to effector organs.
An axon nerve fiber is a long, slender projection of a nerve cell, or neuron, that conducts electrical impulses (called action potentials) away from the neuron's cell body, or soma, in order to transmit those impulses to other neurons. 
axon. (ăk′sŏn′) also ax·one (-sōn′). n. The usually long process of a nerve fiber that generally conducts impulses away from the body of the nerve cell. nerve cell, neuron-a cell that is specialized to conduct nerve impulses. nerve end, nerve ending-the terminal structure of an axon that does not end at a synapse.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. fibers An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. Fibers the function of the axon is to transmit information to different, neurons muscles and. glands An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. body An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites.