Admission Requirements for Specific Colleges. Some academic colleges and departments at Texas Tech only accept students who meet assured admission requirements. College entrance requirements are subject to change and are listed in the Texas Tech Undergraduate Catalog. 1  College of Architecture (all majors) – 3.00 GPA
Clearly the higher your grades and standardized test scores, the better your chances are of receiving an acceptance letter. In fact, Texas Tech assures admission for students with high test scores, and admission is likewise assured for students in the top 10% of their graduating class. Note that there are a some red dots (rejected students) and yellow dots (waitlisted students) hidden behind the green and blue in the left part of the graph. Roughly two out of three applicants to Texas Tech University are accepted. Successful applicants will need solid grades and standardized test scores to get admitted. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students.
The average SAT score composite at Texas Tech is a 1631. This score makes Texas Tech Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1480, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 1770. In other words, a 1480 places you below average, while a 1770 will move you up to above average. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. This school did not officially report its average GPA, but we've estimated it here using data from over 1,000 schools.). With a GPA of 3.42, Texas Tech requires you to be around average in your high school class. You'll need a mix of A's and B's, and very few C's. If you have a lower GPA, you can compensate with harder courses like AP or IB classes. This will help boost your weighted GPA and show your ability to take college classes
The acceptance rate at Texas Tech is 66% . For every 100 applicants, 66 are admitted. This means the school is moderately selective. The school expects you to meet their requirements for GPA and SAT/ACT scores, but they're more flexible than other schools. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. This school did not officially report its average GPA, but we've estimated it here using data from over 1,000 schools.). With a GPA of 3.42, Texas Tech requires you to be around average in your high school class. You'll need a mix of A's and B's, and very few C's. If you have a lower GPA, you can compensate with harder courses like AP or IB classes. This will help boost your weighted GPA and show your ability to take college classe
What are the SAT and ACT requirements for students admitted to Texas Tech University and what score do you need to get in? The tables below describe the SAT and ACT test score percentile profile of the Fall 2013 freshman class. 11,593 out of 18,027 applicants or 64% percent were admitted making Texas Tech University moderately easy school to get into with a good chance of acceptance assuming you meet the requirements.
Discussion of Texas Tech's Admissions Standards: Roughly two out of three applicants to Texas Tech University are accepted. Successful applicants will need solid grades and standardized test scores to get admitted. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students.
In Education. UT does not have any strict GPA requirements for those applying for  admission; however, it is advised that transfer students have a 3.0  GPA to receive strong consideration … . Once at the University of  Texas, you must maintain a minimum GPA of 2.0 to be in good  academic standing. Elle McClain. the university of Maryland does not have a required GPA but their Average weighted GPA for the incoming Freshman class for the 2011-2012 school year was 4.0.
Answer     There are not specific requirements for GPA. If you are in the top 10% of your class, you will be admitted. Otherwise they will look at the overal … l picture of grades, SAT and activities. the university of Maryland does not have a required GPA but their Average weighted GPA for the incoming Freshman class for the 2011-2012 school year was 4.0.
These admission statistics provide an indication as to the selectivity of the school and how difficult it is to get in. 11,593 out of 18,027 applicants or 64% percent were admitted making Texas Tech University moderately easy school to get into with a good chance of acceptance assuming you meet the requirements.