hi pink, jaundice is a symptom that there is some problem in the liver and its not contagious. But if. jaundice was caused by virus, it is contagious. Meaning its the virus that spreads and in turn it spreads jaundice. I would suggest you to consult a doctor and then decide rather than going by assumption, to decide whether your husband has jaundice or not. 
Best Answer: Yes it can be Contagious But not all Jaundice is caused by contagious disease. Jaundice is the yellowing of skin, eyes etc. The causes vary from exposure to toxic materials to Hepatitis A, B, C, AC that is when it is contagious. You need to know the cause and stay out of contact with the jaundiced persons. Some of these deceases are without a cure so please be careful.
Jaundice is not contagious if proper hygiene is followed. Generally Jaundice is not contagious. But if the food or drink is shared it could possibly lead to the other person getting infected. 
Jaundice is not always contagious to other dogs. This will be determined by the cause of the condition. Jaundice in dogs can be caused by various factors such as: 1  Drug administration (i.e., corticosteroids, Phenobarbital or chemotherapy). 2  Liver damage. 3  Toxicity (due to ingestion of poisonous materials). Aside from the heartworms, the other conditions that cause jaundice are not contagious. The heartworm may be transmitted to other canines, but only through mosquito bites. A mosquito can transmit heartworms from one canine to another if it bites an infested dog.
1 Jaundice is caused by too much bilirubin in the blood. 2  Newborns get it because their livers are not yet fully developed and can't get rid of the bilirubin. 3  Jaundice can cause the face, eyes, chest, stomach, and legs to turn yellow. 4  Jaundice is not contagious. 5  Mild cases usually clear up on their own. Quick Answers. 1  Jaundice is a common condition in newborns. 2  Jaundice is caused by too much bilirubin in the blood. 3
Many people are keen on knowing if jaundice is contagious or if they can catch jaundice through physical contact or proximity. One needs to keep in mind that jaundice by itself is not a contagious disease because in most cases jaundice is actually a symptom of a disease. One of the ways to prevent jaundice or to ensure that the levels of bilirubin in the blood do not increase to an alarming rate is too encourage frequent urination by drinking plenty of fluids throughout the day in the form of fruits and vegetable juices as well as fresh drinking water.
Jaundice is a yellow discoloration of the skin and the sclera (white of the eye), it is a symptom due to an abnormal rise of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is formed by the destruction of hemoglobin. In most of the cases jaundice is indicative of liver problem. But there are certain other extrahepatic conditions which also cause jaundice such as cancer of head of pancreas, blood and spleen diseases, stones in gall bladder, Hodgkin’s disease etc. 