Their meat and milk production is not profitable enough like other goat breeds. Angora goats generally are of small sized, hardy, long-lived, requires minimal care and facilities and are relatively odor-free. This goat is available in almost all countries of the world. Like other goat breeds Angora goats are also browsers and love grazing and eating green grasses, corns, plants etc. They also generally eats a lots of roughage that includes weeds, bark, leaves or woody shrubs. They hold the tree branches down and eats leaves from there by standing on their hind legs
Meat goats are often called Spanish goats in honor of Spanish explorers who brought these animals to North America as a source of fresh groceries. Surplus or cull Angora and cashmere goats are also used for meat, although a good fiber-producing goat is generally a poor meat goat and vice versa. Among dairy goats, Nubians are considered a dual-purpose breed. They put on more muscle than other dairy breeds but, as a trade-off, average less milk. Choosing a Dairy Goat Breed. A look into each dairy breed, on how much milk each one averages and what to expect in taste. Goat breeds fall into one or more of the following categories: dairy, fiber, meat or transport. We've compiled a guide to help you get the most good out of your goat.
The ears are heavy and drooping. The Angora goat is a small animal as compared to sheep, common goats, or milk goats. There is considerable variation in the size of goats, but mature bucks will usually fall in a weight range of from 180 to 225 pounds but do not reach their maximum weight until after five years of age. Mention is made of the use of mohair at the time of Moses, which would fix the record of the Angora some time between 1571 and 1451 B.C., according to the Angora Goat Mohair Industry publication from USDA (Miscellaneous Bulletin 50, 1929).
Angora goat breeders, however, have sponsored an endeavor to have the Angora goat carcass referred to as chevon' and sold as such on the market. It is maintained that the flesh is quite acceptable, particularly from young goats in good condition, and some people refer to it as a delicacy. Mention is made of the use of mohair at the time of Moses, which would fix the record of the Angora some time between 1571 and 1451 B.C., according to the Angora Goat Mohair Industry publication from USDA (Miscellaneous Bulletin 50, 1929).
Shortcomings of the Angora The Angora goat is not as prolific as other goats and twins are not the usual birth. Goats in large range bands will usually kid from 60 to 70 percent, but in well-managed small bands of purebred goats the rate of reproduction may be slightly over 100 percent. Mention is made of the use of mohair at the time of Moses, which would fix the record of the Angora some time between 1571 and 1451 B.C., according to the Angora Goat Mohair Industry publication from USDA (Miscellaneous Bulletin 50, 1929).
Castrated males are wethers. Goat meat from younger animals is called kid or cabrito (Spanish), and from older animals is simply known as goat or sometimes called chevon (French), or in some areas  mutton  (which more often refers to adult sheep meat). The goat is a member of the family Bovidae and is closely related to the sheep as both are in the goat-antelope subfamily Caprinae. There are over 300 distinct breeds of goat. Goats are one of the oldest domesticated species, and have been used for their milk, meat, hair, and skins over much of the world.
Excess males and cull goats are also used for meat. The Spanish and Angora goats are increasing in numbers in the Southwestern States, primarily in Texas. On brushy ranges, they improve the pasture for cattle and sheep by eating large amounts of twigs, shrubs, and brush. 
1 The Boer goat is one of the most popular of all breeds for meat production. 2  With bucks growing to between 240 – 300 pounds at maturity, the Boer can also be crossbred with Nubian, Alpine, Oberhasli, Angora and Kiko goats to produce offspring with varying growth rates, meat production and increased milk production. Aside from their outrageously fun personalities and the companionship they can provide, goats are also immensely useful for their production of milk, meat, mohair, cashmere, and natural fertilizer.
1 Angora goats are very small sized animal than other milk and meat goats. 2  Even they are also smaller than some common sheep breeds. 3  An adult male Angora goat generally weights about 180-225 pounds. 4  And adult female goat weights about 100-110 pounds. Like other goat breeds Angora goats are also browsers and love grazing and eating green grasses, corns, plants etc. They also generally eats a lots of roughage that includes weeds, bark, leaves or woody shrubs. They hold the tree branches down and eats leaves from there by standing on their hind leg