Horror fiction, horror literature and also horror fantasy are genres of literature, which are intended to, or have the capacity to frighten, scare, or startle their readers or viewers by inducing feelings of horror and terror. However, she adds that horror fiction is one of the few mediums where readers seek out a form of art that forces themselves to confront ideas and images they might rather ignore ...
Literary historian J. A. Cuddon has defined the horror story as a piece of fiction in prose of variable length... which shocks or even frightens the reader, or perhaps induces a feeling of repulsion or loathing. It creates an eerie and frightening atmosphere. However, she adds that horror fiction is one of the few mediums where readers seek out a form of art that forces themselves to confront ideas and images they might rather ignore ...
View Comments. Supernatural film is a genre that centers around supernatural elements, such as ghosts, gods, goddesses, and miracles. Supernatural films deal with the unknown questions of life; therefore, they tend to incorporate religious elements into the plot
Brief definition of the Horror Fiction Genre. A brief look at the definition of the Horror Fiction Genre makes us realise that the oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown. Horror fiction is, broadly, fiction intended to scare, unsettle or horrify the reader. Although a good deal of it is about the supernatural, any fiction with a morbid, gruesome, surreal, suspenseful or frightening theme may be termed horror; conversely, many stories of the supernatural are not horror.
Horror fiction often overlaps with science fiction and fantasy, all of which form the umbrella category. The Horror fiction genre requires that the reader engages in a conspiracy that agrees to suspend the rules of everyday. Readers must invest strong psychological belief in the literary worlds that are presented. Horror is an experience of safety and conservatism. Horror fiction is, broadly, fiction intended to scare, unsettle or horrify the reader. Although a good deal of it is about the supernatural, any fiction with a morbid, gruesome, surreal, suspenseful or frightening theme may be termed horror; conversely, many stories of the supernatural are not horror.
Webster's Collegiate Dictionary gives the primary definition of horror as a painful and intense fear, dread, or dismay.. Horror fiction is, broadly, fiction intended to scare, unsettle or horrify the reader. Although a good deal of it is about the supernatural, any fiction with a morbid, gruesome, surreal, suspenseful or frightening theme may be termed horror; conversely, many stories of the supernatural are not horror.
The Raven  by Gustave Dore. Doré horror, fiction horror literature and also horror fantasy are genres of, literature which are intended, to or have the capacity to, frighten, scare or startle their readers or viewers by inducing feelings of horror and. terror However, she adds that horror fiction is one of the few mediums where readers seek out a form of art that forces themselves to confront ideas and images they might rather ignore ...
Science – Many horror films and stories can also be classified as science fiction because they are based on scientific ideas. “Frankenstein” is one example, but there are myriad others. Have students choose a horror film or piece of literature grounded in scientific ideas and investigate the actual science behind it. Brainstorm a list of horror stories and films that can be considered “classics,” such as “Frankenstein,” “The Woman in White,” “The Shining,” “Psycho,” “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow,” Alfred Hitchcock films, “The Turn of the Screw,” stories by Edgar Allan Poe, etc.
Gothic fiction, which is largely known by the subgenre of Gothic horror, is a genre or mode of literature that combines fiction, horror, death and Romanticism. The setting of the Gothic novel is a character in itself. The plot is usually set in a castle, an abbey, a monastery, or some other, usually religious edifice, and it is acknowledged that this building has secrets of its own.
Supernatural-Horror. Supernatural-Horror film is a sub-genre that includes ghosts, demons, or other depictions of supernatural occurrences. Often, Supernatural-Horror films combine elements of religion into the plot. Common themes in Supernatural-Horror films include the afterlife, the devil, and demonic possession. Supernatural film is a genre that centers around supernatural elements, such as ghosts, gods, goddesses, and miracles.