Worldwide, rats and mice spread over 35 diseases. These diseases can be spread to humans directly, through handling of rodents, through contact with rodent feces, urine, or saliva, or through rodent bites. 
Save. Pet rats may carry a variety of diseases, including hantavirus, leptospirosis and plague. Most pet rats are not exposed to these diseases, but if the rat is a carrier, many of these diseases can be transmitted to humans. Rats may carry salmonella bacteria and spread the disease to humans through their stool. If you contract salmonellosis from your rat, you may experience diarrhea, abdominal cramps and fever. The disease usually lasts 4 to 7 days and most people recover without treatment.
Leptospirosis. Some rats may carry the leptospirosis bacteria that can be passed to humans through contact with contaminated urine. Not all people who are infected develop symptoms of the disease, but those that do may experience severe headache, fever, vomiting, diarrhea and muscle pain. Rats may carry salmonella bacteria and spread the disease to humans through their stool. If you contract salmonellosis from your rat, you may experience diarrhea, abdominal cramps and fever. The disease usually lasts 4 to 7 days and most people recover without treatment.
Petstore rats-indeed any rats can carry diseases. What you should be looking out for is sneezing or wheezing. The problem illness rats mainly have is called mycoplasma-and the only rats that are guaranteed free of it are lab rats, that are born from caeserian. all rats, whether they come from a breeder, rescue, or pet store, carry a disease called myco. well, that is what it is called for short. the only myco free rats are lab rats. it just depends on the pet store and how well they care for the rats.
Salmonellosis. Salmonellosis, or salmonella, is another bacterial illness that both domestic and wild rats carry. Like leptospirosis, it is spread to humans through contact with urine and feces. In humans, salmonellosis causes gastrointestinal problems such as diarrhea, stomach cramps and fever. While they can carry and spread the disease, fleas on the rat are more often to blame. Fleas spread plague between animals and from animals to humans. Rats will die if they become infected with plague. Humans can also die without treatment, but antibiotics can are usually effective.
Rat-Borne Diseases. Rat bites and scratches can result in disease and rat-bite fever. Rat urine is responsible for the spread of leptospirosis, which can result in liver and kidney damage. It can also be contracted through handling or inhalation of scat. Complications include renal and liver failure, as well as cardiovascular problems. 
Leptospirosis. Leptospirosis, also called Weil's disease, is a bacteria that many rats carry without showing symptoms of infection. Humans become infected when contaminated rat urine or feces comes in contact with mucous membranes. Symptoms in people include headache, fever, vomiting, rash and muscle aches. While they can carry and spread the disease, fleas on the rat are more often to blame. Fleas spread plague between animals and from animals to humans. Rats will die if they become infected with plague. Humans can also die without treatment, but antibiotics can are usually effective.
Rats may carry a few diseases but so can stray cats and dogs. Rats do not carry rabies as some may suggest and there have been no known cases of this reported in north America. Rats carry a wide variety of diseases, such as Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrom, Murine Typhus, Rat-Bite Fever, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, Leptospirosis, and Eosinop … hilic Meningitis.
Leptospirosis, also called Weil's disease, is a bacteria that many rats carry without showing symptoms of infection. Humans become infected when contaminated rat urine or feces comes in contact with mucous membranes. While they can carry and spread the disease, fleas on the rat are more often to blame. Fleas spread plague between animals and from animals to humans. Rats will die if they become infected with plague. Humans can also die without treatment, but antibiotics can are usually effective.
Rats may carry a few diseases but so can stray cats and dogs. Rats do not carry rabies as some may suggest and there have been no known cases of this reported in north America … . Rats have been kept as pets for centuries and pet rats are very friendly and intelligent. Neither rats nor mice are poisonous. They are both very dirty and carry many diseases, and so do the fleas that are on them. As to which is more of a disease factory, I don't know. If I had to guess it would be rats.