ki-ki, kik-i ] The baby boy name Kiki is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is K IY-Kiy- †. Kiki is largely used in the Spanish language and it is derived from Germanic origins. Kiki is a variant of the name Henry (English). Kiki is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. In 2012, out of the group of boy names directly linked to Kiki, Henry was the most frequently used
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kiki and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kiki and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kiki are: 1  Ancient Egyptian meaning: From the castor plant. 2  Spanish meaning: Derivative: Short for names beginning with K.
Kiki /ki-ki/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KEE-kee. It is of Spanish origin. Pet form of Enriquetta, from Henrietta. Also a nickname for the French name Magali. The name Kiki is also used in Japanese. Similar Names. Kiki is pronounced similarly to Keiki, Keiko, Kiko and Kioko. Other recommended similar baby names are Kaci ▼ , Kasi, Kicia, Kimi, Kiri, Kishi, Kivi, Miki, Niki ▼ , Riki and Viki. These names tend to be more frequently used than Kiki.
The highest recorded use of the name Kiki was in 1975 with a total of 42 babies. According to the 2013 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Kiki is not a popular baby girl's name in New York. Imagine that, only 5 babies in New York have the same name as you in 2013. Across the entire United States a total of only 12 babies also bear the same first name during the same year. 
Meaning of the name Kiki, analysis of the name Kiki and so much more… What does Kiki mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Kiki. 2  Prononciation Of Kiki. 3  The Meaning Of The Name Kiki. 
Kiki is an uncommonly occurring given name for women and an unusual last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Hattie (#590 in 2014) , Hettie, Yetta, Henriette, Henrietta, Ettie, Enriqueta and Etta are the popular varying forms of Kiki (not in Top 1000) . Similar Names. Kiki is pronounced similarly to Keiki, Keiko, Kiko and Kioko. Other recommended similar baby names are Kaci ▼ , Kasi, Kicia, Kimi, Kiri, Kishi, Kivi, Miki, Niki ▼ , Riki and Viki. These names tend to be more frequently used than Kiki.
The different meanings of the name Kiki are: The meaning of the name “Kiki” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kiki are: 1  Ancient Egyptian meaning: From the castor plant. 2  Spanish meaning: Derivative: Short for names beginning with K.
Kiki is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ki-ki. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 11382 in baby name popularity for girls with 9 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kiki in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kiki in Nautical Flags page.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kiki in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kiki in Nautical Flags page.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Kiki for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Kiki is a girl name. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kiki are: 1  Ancient Egyptian meaning: From the castor plant. 2  Spanish meaning: Derivative: Short for names beginning with K.