Under the Workers' Compensation Law, most individuals providing services to a for-profit business will be deemed an employee of that business and therefore must be covered by the employer for workers' compensation insurance. An independent contractor retains a degree of control over the time when the work is to be accomplished and is not subject to be discharged by the hiring entity because of the method he chooses to use in performing the work.
However, determining whether you are an employee under Georgia law can be complicated. Independent Contractors and other types of workers are not entitled to any Workers' Compensation benefits. 
Share on Google Plus. Independent contractors are not eligible for workers' compensation coverage; employers are not required by state law to purchase coverage for independent contractors. However, some employers misclassify employees as independent contractors to avoid paying payroll taxes and workers' comp premiums for them. Especially when a worker is injured, an employer may try to deny that the worker was an employee. To be an employee, the worker does not need to be interviewed and formally hired. Independent contractors typically receive payment by the job; on the other hand, employees receive wages on an hourly or salaried basis.
Additionally, employers do not have to cover independent contractors under workers compensation insurance, and are not liable for payments under unemployment insurance, disability insurance, or social security. There are other agencies, such as the Franchise Tax Board (FTB), Division of Workers Compensation (DWC), and the Contractors State Licensing Board (CSLB), that also have regulations or requirements concerning independent contractors.
Your workers' compensation insurance company will want to see copies of your independent contractor's workers' compensation Certificates. Without the Certificates, your carrier may consider the independent contractors your employee and charge you an additional workers' compensation premium. One of these shortsighted moves is an event organizer’s decision to declare certain (or all) employees are independent contractors and thus exempt from the employer’s workers' compensation requirements.
If a business meets any of the criteria listed below, and the individual hired does not meet the criteria listed under independent contractors, or the services rendered are not specifically exempted as employment under the WCL, then that business must obtain a workers' compensation insurance policy. An independent contractor retains a degree of control over the time when the work is to be accomplished and is not subject to be discharged by the hiring entity because of the method he chooses to use in performing the work.
Save. Workers' compensation insurance is a policy to project workers if injured on the job. An independent contractor is not an employee. A business who hires independent contractors is not required to carry workers' compensation insurance on behalf of its independent contractors. If aspects of the worker's job are controlled by the company, including whether the worker receives reimbursed expenses and the company provides workspace, tools and supplies, then the worker is an employee and not an independent contractor. The worker in this scenario must be covered by workers' compensation insurance.
Georgia Independent Contractors: What you need to know. Read more about Independent Contractors. Whether a worker is an “employee” or an “independent contractor” is critical when it comes to such important issues as pension eligibility, workers' compensation coverage, wage and hour law, and many other matters. In determining whether an individual is covered as an employee under the workers' compensation laws, the state will inquire not only whether the worker has the right of control, but also whether the worker is a member of the class targeted for protection by these laws.