Other Acids. Oranges provide small amounts of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids and two protein building blocks, aspartic acid and glutamic acid. The fruit also contains acetic acid found in vinegar, and caprylic acid, an aromatic in goat fat. Caprylic acid's rancid smell finds application in perfume. Ascorbic Acid. If you throw away the peel and the seeds of a typical Florida-grown orange, you'll still find 63.5 mg of ascorbic acid in the fruit you keep. You could eat everything but the seeds and add even more vitamin C, for a total of 112.9 mg.
As intermediates in the metabolic processes of the fruit, these acids are directly involved in growth, maturation, and senescence. Fruit juices have a low pH, because they contain high levels of organic acids. The total acid content varies widely, from approximately 0.2% in pear juice to 0.8% in lime. Some of the major acids in fruits include citric, malic, and tartaric acids. Organic acids also influence the growth of microorganisms in fruit juices and therefore affect the keeping quality of the product. At proper levels certain acids are inhibitory to most bacteria.
Formic acid found in oranges acts as a strong irritant when concentrated. Oranges contain harmless amounts of formic acid, but volatile oils in the orange rind could cause dermatitis, hives and asthmatic symptoms in some individuals. Ascorbic Acid. If you throw away the peel and the seeds of a typical Florida-grown orange, you'll still find 63.5 mg of ascorbic acid in the fruit you keep. You could eat everything but the seeds and add even more vitamin C, for a total of 112.9 mg.
Some people may have problems with these fruits because of their acid content. The acid though is a healthy and organic nutritional element (for instance: ascorbic acid is vitamin c, found especially in citrus fruits and vegetables). 
Most mixtures of low-acid and acid foods also have pH values above 4.6 unless their recipes include enough lemon juice, citric acid, or. vinegar to make them acid foods. Acid foods have a pH of 4.6 or lower. They include fruits, pickles, sauerkraut, jams, jellies, marmalades, and fruit butters. Although tomatoes usually are considered an acid food, some are now known to have pH values slightly above 4.6. Figs also have pH values slightly above 4.6.
Citric Acid. Citric acid, found in all citrus fruits, adds the sour taste to lemons, limes, grapefruit and oranges. Citric acid is added to other food products, such as candy, soda and juice, to make them taste sour. Its acidic quality makes it useful as a preservative for canned foods and preserving meat. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Oranges contain ascorbic acid, also known as vitamin C. Other acids that contribute to the nutritional profile of oranges include folic, pantothenic, hydroxycinnamic, citric, malic and oxalic.
Acid foods are foods that contain enough acid to have a pH of 4.6 or lower. Acidic foods can be processed safely in a boiling water canner, usually without added acid (lemon juice, vinegar or citric acid). This is necessary to control botulinum bacteria. Acid foods have a pH of 4.6 or lower. They include fruits, pickles, sauerkraut, jams, jellies, marmalades, and fruit butters. Although tomatoes usually are considered an acid food, some are now known to have pH values slightly above 4.6. Figs als
Because one of the acids in its fruit cures scurvy, oranges spread quickly through the ancient world as sailors planted these important trees at tropical ports. The orange no longer exists as a wild tree, but has become the most commonly planted fruit tree in the world, according to Purdue University. Ascorbic Acid. If you throw away the peel and the seeds of a typical Florida-grown orange, you'll still find 63.5 mg of ascorbic acid in the fruit you keep. You could eat everything but the seeds and add even more vitamin C, for a total of 112.9 mg.
You can obtain hydroxycinnamic acids by eating citrus fruits, like oranges, in your daily diet. Citric acid, found in all citrus fruits, adds the sour taste to lemons, limes, grapefruit and oranges. Citric acid is added to other food products, such as candy, soda and juice, to make them taste sour. Its acidic quality makes it useful as a preservative for canned foods and preserving meat. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Oranges contain ascorbic acid, also known as vitamin C. Other acids that contribute to the nutritional profile of oranges include folic, pantothenic, hydroxycinnamic, citric, malic and oxalic.