Lecithin is a naturally occurring substance found in beef liver, steak, eggs, peanuts, cauliflower, and oranges. Commercial lecithin products usually come from soybeans, egg yolk, or brain tissue. Not all uses for lecithin have been approved by the FDA. Lecithin should not be used in place of medication prescribed for you by your doctor. Lecithin may also be used for purposes not listed in this product guide. Follow all directions on the product label and package.
Composed of choline, fatty acids, glycerol, glycolipids, phospholipids, phosphoric acid and triglycerides lecithin was originally isolated from egg yolk. Today, it is regularly extracted from cottonseed, marine sources, milk, rapeseed, soybeans, and sunflower. It is usually used as a liquid but also can be purchased as granules. By and large, the vast majority of lecithin use centers around its unique ability of being an excellent emulsifier.
Lecithin is a fat that is essential in the cells of the body. It can be found in many foods, including soybeans and egg yolks. Lecithin is taken as a medicine and is also used in the manufacturing of medicines. Lecithin is used for treating memory disorders such as dementia and Alzheimer ’s disease. It is also used for treating gallbladder disease, liver disease, certain types of depression, high cholesterol, anxiety, and a skin disease called eczema. Some people apply lecithin to the skin as a moisturizer. Lecithin is LIKELY SAFE for most people. It can cause some side effects including diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, or fullness. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of lecithin during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use
Lecithin, originally isolated by Theodore Nicolas Gobley from egg yolk, is a term now frequently used to describe any of a number of fatty substances with health benefits that occur naturally in a number of plants and animals. As a tool for heart health, lecithin also works to reverse and prevent damages that may arise from coronary artery disease. Preventing cholesterol and other fats from sticking is a vital function for the overall health of anyone with a predisposition to heart disease and other cardiovascular afflictions.
Commercial lecithin, as used by food manufacturers, is a mixture of phospholipids in oil. The lecithin can be obtained by water degumming the extracted oil of seeds. It is a mixture of various phospholipids, and the composition depends on the origin of the lecithin. Lecithin, as a food additive, is also a dietary source of several active compounds: Choline and its metabolites are needed for several physiological purposes, including cell membrane signaling and cholinergic neurotransmission, and is a major source for methyl groups via its metabolite, trimethylglycine (betaine).
About LECITHIN: Lecithin is a naturally ocurring lipid found in both plants and animals. According to the PETA's Caring Consumer guide, lecithin for com mercial purposes is most commonly obtain from eggs and soybeans ... read more. 
On the other side of the soy lecithin debate is an exceptionally large body of research that supports it use as a healing agent. Referred to as a fat that is “essential” to the cells in our bodies, lecithin is used both as a standalone medicine and also as a common additive in many medicines today. Today, it is regularly extracted from cottonseed, marine sources, milk, rapeseed, soybeans, and sunflower. It is usually used as a liquid but also can be purchased as granules. By and large, the vast majority of lecithin use centers around its unique ability of being an excellent emulsifier.
This results in a type of surfactant that usually is classified as amphipathic. Lecithin is sold as a food supplement and for medical uses. In cooking, it is sometimes used as an emulsifier and to prevent sticking, for example in nonstick cooking spray. Lecithin, as a food additive, is also a dietary source of several active compounds: Choline and its metabolites are needed for several physiological purposes, including cell membrane signaling and cholinergic neurotransmission, and is a major source for methyl groups via its metabolite, trimethylglycine (betaine).
Lecithin is a generic term to designate any group of yellow-brownish fatty substances occurring in animal and plant tissues composed of phosphoric acid, choline, fatty acids, glycerol, glycolipids, triglycerides, and phospholipids. Lecithin, as a food additive, is also a dietary source of several active compounds: Choline and its metabolites are needed for several physiological purposes, including cell membrane signaling and cholinergic neurotransmission, and is a major source for methyl groups via its metabolite, trimethylglycine (betaine).