The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
A programmable logic controller, PLC, or programmable controller is a digital computer used for automation of typically industrial electromechanical processes, such as control of machinery on factory assembly lines, amusement rides, or light fixtures. PLCs are used in many machines, in many industries. PLCs are designed for multiple arrangements of digital and analog inputs and outputs, extended temperature ranges, immunity to electrical noise, and resistance to vibration and impact. Special-purpose I/O modules may be used where the scan time of the PLC is too long to allow predictable performance. Precision timing modules, or counter modules for use with shaft encoders, are used where the scan time would be too long to reliably count pulses or detect the sense of rotation of an encoder.
A PLC can be either an unlisted or listed company on the stock exchanges. In the United Kingdom, a public limited company usually must include the words public limited company or the abbreviation PLC or plc at the end and as part of the legal company name. It is a limited (liability) company whose shares may be freely sold and traded to the public (although a plc may also be privately held, often by another plc), with a minimum share capital of £50,000 and the letters PLC after its name. Similar companies in the United States are called publicly traded companies
DEFINITION of 'Public Limited Company-PLC'. The standard legal designation of a company which has offered shares to the general public and has limited liability. A Public Limited Company's stock can be acquired by anyone and holders are only limited to potentially lose the amount paid for the shares. It is a legal form more commonly used in the U.K. Two or more people are required to form such a company, assuming it has a lawful purpose. Being a public company allows a firm to sell shares to investors this is benificial in raising capital. Only Public Limited Companies may be listed on the London Stock Exchange and will have the suffix PLC on their ticker symbol. For example, British Petroleum has the ticker BP PLC.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved
A public limited company (legally abbreviated to plc) is a type of public company (publicly held company) under United Kingdom company law, some Commonwealth jurisdictions, and the Republic of Ireland. It is a limited (liability) company whose shares may be freely sold and traded to the public (although a plc may also be privately held, often by another plc), with a minimum share capital of £50,000 and the letters PLC after its name. Similar companies in the United States are called publicly traded companies
A limited company grants limited liability to its owners and management. Being a public company allows a firm to sell shares to investors this is benificial in raising capital. Only Public Limited Companies may be listed on the London Stock Exchange and will have the suffix PLC on their ticker symbol. For example, British Petroleum has the ticker BP PLC.
PLC's are businesses that are a Public Limited Company. This means that their shares can be sold to anyone in the public that are interested in buying them. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Fwmh. Confidence votes 79.9K. PLC in Electronics, and computers stands for Programmable Logic Controller. ---------------------------------. Public limited company, in the UK, Ireland, Nigeria and Philippines-a type of limited company whose shares may be sold to the public