Did you know? 1  If left untreated, heartworm disease can result in your dog's death. 2  Heartworms can grow to 16 inches in length and there can be as many as 250 heartworms in a dog's vital organs. 3  Your dog can have no symptoms until heartworms are well-established. 4  Almost 300,000 dogs in the U.S. are infected with heartworms each year. 5  It is 6  ... Other 1 If left untreated, heartworm disease can result in your dog's death. 2  Heartworms can grow to 16 inches in length and there can be as many as 250 heartworms in a dog's vital organs. 3  Your dog can have no symptoms until heartworms are well-established. 4  Almost 300,000 dogs in the U.S. are infected with heartworms each year.
Heartworm disease is only spread through the bite of a mosquito. Inside a dog, a heartworm’s lifespan is five to seven years. Adult heartworms look like strands of cooked spaghetti, with males reaching about 4 to 6 inches in length and females reaching about 10 to 12 inches in length. The number of worms living inside an infected dog is called the worm burden. This is about one month longer than in dogs. The presence of microfilariae in a cat’s bloodstream is uncommon. Only 20 percent of cats with heartworm disease have microfilariae in the bloodstream, compared to 80 to 90 percent of dogs with heartworm disease.
Dogs should be tested for heartworms before beginning a heartworm prevention program, or when changing from one heartworm preventive to another. Dogs that are already on heartworm preventive medication should also be tested periodically. The “prepatent period” for heartworm disease (the amount of time it takes for microfilariae to be produced) is approximately 6 months in a dog. During this time, heartworm tests will be negative even if a dog is actually infected. Therefore, puppies younger than 7 months old are generally not tested for heartworms. 
Assuming you are giving your dog a heartworm preventative, you should have your pooch checked once a year. It's a simple blood test. If you aren't giving a preventative, you should have the doggie tested, and then start medicating! Good luck. Source(s): Based on owning dogs for over 30 years and the guidance of my vet. go get her tested again, if no heartworms, start her on the preventative heartgard plus, it only cost 25 dollars for a six month supply, very well worth it, that is what it cost here, shouldn't be much of a difference, if it is call 1-800-pet-meds, they are reasonable on their prices. ♥Just_Me♥ · 9 years ago.
Testing. When and how often pets should be tested for heartworm infection is a matter of debate. In making a decision on when to test, we must consider how common heartworm disease is where the pet lives, what heartworm preventive the pet is receiving, and how long the mosquito season lasts. Six months after the treatment, the dog should be tested for heartworms using the antigen test. Some animals may need to undergo a second round of injections if repeat antigen tests remain positive. It is recommended that dogs remain on a monthly heartworm preventive during the treatment.
Heartworm disease in cats is a bit different than in dogs. Heartworms in cats do not live as long (average lifespan is only two to three years) or grow as long, and fewer of them mature into adults. Worm burdens are much lower in cats, with the average being only one to three worms. This is about one month longer than in dogs. The presence of microfilariae in a cat’s bloodstream is uncommon. Only 20 percent of cats with heartworm disease have microfilariae in the bloodstream, compared to 80 to 90 percent of dogs with heartworm disease.
1 Adult dogs over 7 months of age and previously not on a preventive need to be tested prior to starting heartworm prevention. 2  They, too, need to be tested 6 months and 12 months later and annually after that. Active dogs, dogs heavily infected with heartworms, or those with other health problems often show pronounced clinical signs. Signs of heartworm disease may include a mild persistent cough, reluctance to exercise, fatigue after moderate activity, decreased appetite, and weight loss.