Introduction. A transform boundary is a fault zone where two plates slide past each other horizontally. Most transform faults are found in the ocean where they offset spreading ridges creating a zigzag pattern between the plates. Some transform faults occur on land. The San Andreas Fault is the transform boundary between the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate. During the 1906 San Francisco earthquake the northern section of the San Andreas Fault slipped northward along the fault from San Juan Bautista to Cape Mendocino, a total of 296 miles (477km).
A transform boundary, or conservative plate boundary, is a type of fault at the margin of two adjacent tectonic plates were the relative motion is horizontal in either sinistr … al or dextral direction between the two. 5 people found this useful. Transform boundaries occur when two plates are sliding along each other in opposing directions. Due to friction when the plates buckle and shift, they often cause earthquakes. … A famous transform fault is the San Andreas fault in California. + 66 others found this useful.
Definition of TRANSFORM FAULT. : a strike-slip fault that occurs typically between segments of a mid-ocean ridge or other tectonic-plate boundary and that is characterized by shallow high-magnitude earthquakes. ADVERTISEMENT. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about transform fault. 
Transform Boundaries The final type of boundary is one where the two plates slide against each other in a sideways motion. These boundaries between plates is referred to as transform boundaries. As two plates slide past one another, in a transform boundary, neither plate is added to at the boundary, nor destroyed. The result of two massive plates pushing against one another is that massive amounts of energy build up.
The most famous example of a transform boundary is the San Andreas Fault in California. The west side of California is moving north, and the east side is moving south. And just like with a pool, the floats sometimes randomly hit each other. They can move towards each other, move away from each other, and slide alongside each other. A transform boundary (or conservative boundary) is where two of the tectonic plates slide alongside each other. When this happens, the scraping of the two plates causes earthquakes
The Earth's crust is split into sections called tectonic plates. Transform boundaries are where two of these plates are sliding alongside each other. This causes intense earthquakes, the formation of thin linear valleys, and split river beds. And just like with a pool, the floats sometimes randomly hit each other. They can move towards each other, move away from each other, and slide alongside each other. A transform boundary (or conservative boundary) is where two of the tectonic plates slide alongside each other. When this happens, the scraping of the two plates causes earthquake
The most famous example of a transform boundary is the San Andreas Fault in California. The San Andreas Fault is the edges of the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate. The fault line runs through the Gulf of California and through the western part of California before running back under the ocean. In the theory of plate tectonics, the earth's crust is broken into plates that move around relative to each other. As a result of this movement, three types of plate boundaries are formed: divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries.
Transform Plate Boundaries are locations where two plates slide past one another. The fracture zone that forms a transform plate boundary is known as a transform fault. Most transform faults are found in the ocean basin and connect offsets in the mid-ocean ridges. A smaller number connect mid-ocean ridges and subduction zones.