ORDERS ON CONVICTION2.1 A Restraining order on conviction can be made where the order isnecessary for the purpose of protecting any person named in the order fromconduct on the part of the defendant which amounts to harassment or willcause that person to fear violence from the defendant. 
Criminal Charges. While a violation of a restraining order can result in a court finding of contempt and the imposition of civil penalties, a violation of an order such as one that targets domestic violence or stalking can result in arrest and prosecution for a criminal offense. Share on Google Plus. Courts issue restraining orders in a variety of scenarios. A restraining order may be designed to bring about the end of a public nuisance, or a judge might issue one in an effort to control the conduct of the parties to a civil lawsuit.
Following the implementation of section 12 of the DVCVA 2004, restraining orders may be made on conviction or acquittal for any criminal offence. These orders are intended to be preventative and protective. The guiding principle is that there must be a need for the order to protect a person or persons. Restraining orders post-conviction. Section 12 of the DVCVA 2004 amended section 5 of the PHA 1997 to allow the court to make a restraining order following a conviction for any criminal offence, where the conviction occurs after 30 September 2009.
A Domestic Violence Restraining Order (“DVRO”) is a restraining order that is issued in specific circumstances. In particular, New Jersey Domestic Violence Restraining Orders are issued when a complaining person (the “plaintiff”) satisfies a court that two conditions exist. Unlike Domestic Violence Restraining Orders, criminal charges also threaten a jail or prison term. If there is matrimonial litigation between the parties, both criminal charges and a restraining order will significantly handicap a defendant in those proceedings, especially with regard to child custody matters.
Unlike restraining orders on conviction, there is no power to protect a person from fear of violence that falls short of harassment where the defendant has been acquitted. Harassment is not defined in the PHA 1997, except that it includes causing a person alarm or distress. Restraining orders post-conviction. Section 12 of the DVCVA 2004 amended section 5 of the PHA 1997 to allow the court to make a restraining order following a conviction for any criminal offence, where the conviction occurs after 30 September 2009.
Depending upon the circumstances, persons violating a restraining order may also be subject to criminal prosecution. That prosecution can be for a felony (in New Jersey terminology, a “fourth degree crime”). Upon conviction, the defendant is exposed to a fine of $10,000.00 and up to 18 months in prison. Unlike Domestic Violence Restraining Orders, criminal charges also threaten a jail or prison term. If there is matrimonial litigation between the parties, both criminal charges and a restraining order will significantly handicap a defendant in those proceedings, especially with regard to child custody matters.
However, if a person bound by a police order breaches that order, they may be charged with the criminal offence of breaching a police order. A conviction for breaching of a police order will go on their criminal record. Breaches of a police order can result in fines of up to $6,000 or imprisonment for up to two years. Police may make an on the spot restraining order called a police order in situations of family and domestic violence. A police order may be made for up to 72 hours. There are two other types of restraining orders.
A civil no-contact order is not a criminal offense. It's a civil matter. The restraining order will show up on a background check if someone goes to the courthouse and does a name check. The court file is a public record. It has been my pleasure to assist you today with your information needs. If you have a follow-up question, please reply and ask it
A restraining order is a kind of court order issued by a judge. The restraining order almost always prohibits a person from engaging in particular behavior, or particular activities. Sometimes the order will additionally require that the person perform some action. Unlike Domestic Violence Restraining Orders, criminal charges also threaten a jail or prison term. If there is matrimonial litigation between the parties, both criminal charges and a restraining order will significantly handicap a defendant in those proceedings, especially with regard to child custody matters.
A conviction for violating a protective order is a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to one year in a county jail and/or a fine of up to $4,000. However, if you have two or more previous convictions, it becomes a third-degree felony, carrying a possible 2 to 10 year prison sentence. Violating a protective order can have strong repercussions in Texas because it means you have been accused of disobeying a direct order from a judge. While it is a misdemeanor on the first offense, there are additional penalties and conditions not normally imposed in misdemeanor cases.