1 Personal Allowance – DCS will reimburse foster parents up to $300 annually for each child in placement. 2  Foster parents may request reimbursement for personal allowance items once the child has been in placement for at least 8 days. 3  The items that fall within the personal allowance will be defined in DCS Policy.
On Friday, Indiana Department of Child Services released a new foster care per diem rate schedule. The reimbursements become effective January 1, 2012.
Instructions. Meet the eligibility requirements. Foster parents in Indiana must be at least 21 years old, financially stable and own or rent a home that meets the safety standards established by the Department of Children Services (DCS).
With the new rates, the needs of the child and their age, rather than the licensing level of the foster home, will determine the rate at which foster parents are reimbursed. Back in 2009, DCS announced that they planned to drop the amount foster parents got daily per child from $25 to $22.50.
Being a foster parent should be all about love and never about money. If for some reason you are need of money get a job. I feel so sorry for these children, because I have so much love in my heart for them. Maybe one day God will bless me with enough money to take care of about five and never take a dime from anyone.
Adoptive foster parents are compensated during the adoption process and in most cases are paid as a temporary foster parent in terms of daily allowances. Generally the process take up to 6 months before the adoption is finalized but most often the child has been in the adoptive parents home for much longer.
The state determines how much a foster parent makes according to that state's foster care daily allowance formula. For example; in some states foster parent can earn as much as $40 dollars a day for the daily care of a child, while in other states, daily foster care allowances are as low as $10 dollars a day.
The special allowances of $50 for the child's birthday and $50 during the December holiday season will help foster parents see the child receives things during these gift-giving occasions, said James W. Payne, DCS Director.
How much do foster parents get paid, per month, in Indiana, per child? It depends on the age of the child, usually 200-300 per month.