1 You can only pay into one Stocks and shares ISA in each tax year, but you can open a new ISA with a different provider each year if you want to. 2  You don’t have to use the same provider for your Cash ISA, if you have one. 3  It’s worth shopping around to make sure you find a ISA that suits you. A Stocks and shares ISA is a ‘wrapper’ that can be put around a wide range of different investment products to help save you tax. Lots of different types of investment can be held in an ISA, including: 1  Unit trusts.
It may still be called an ISA, but a stocks & shares ISA is very different to a cash ISA, which is simply a savings account you don't pay tax on. With a stocks & shares ISA you're investing. This could be in things such as: 1  Corporate and government bonds. 2  You basically lend your money to a company or a government in return for interest (don't confuse these with fixed-term bonds, which are basically savings accounts held for a certain period of time).
Although ISA rules prevent you from transferring shares from paper certificates directly in to a Stocks and Shares ISA, with our ISA you get a free Investment Account. This is a nominee dealing account into which you can transfer your certificated shares and you can use this account to help put shares into your ISA. We only offer a Stocks and Shares ISA. Our Stocks and Shares ISA allows you to hold or invest in all ISA eligible shares. If you subscribe to our Stocks and Shares ISA you cannot subscribe to another Stocks and Shares ISA in the same tax year.
Everyone in the UK over 18 has a 15,240 ISA allowance. You can choose to use all of this for a stocks & shares ISA if you want, or you can put some in a cash ISA and the rest in a stocks & shares ISA. You can also choose to put the whole amount into a cash ISA. With a stocks & shares ISA you're investing. This could be in things such as: 1  Corporate and government bonds. 2  You basically lend your money to a company or a government in return for interest (don't confuse these with fixed-term bonds, which are basically savings accounts held for a certain period of time).
»open an account. ISA Allowance 2015/16Invest up to £15,240 in a Stocks & Shares ISA in the 2015/16 tax year. Transferring a cash ISAYou could earn more with a Stocks & Shares ISA. ISA calculatorSee how much your Stocks & Shares ISA could be worth in the future. Share tips for your ISAOur experts can help you choose what to invest in. 
Mixing share and cash ISAs. If you like, you can open both a cash ISA and a Stocks & Shares ISA in the same tax year. However, the total amount you put in cannot exceed £15,240. So you could invest £7,620 into each, or you could invest £5,000 in a cash ISA and £10,240 in a Stocks & Shares ISA. You can even have the whole £15,240 in a cash ISA if you like. You can have both types of ISAs with the same provider, or you can have them with two separate companies.
Stocks & shares ISAs explained. You can also use your ISA for investing. This type of account is called a stocks & shares ISA, where you can invest in funds (shares or bonds from various companies pooled into one investment), bonds (basically a loan to a company or a government), and shares in individual companies. Split the allowance between cash and stocks & shares ISAs. You get to choose! If you wanted to, you could invest 1,500 in a cash ISA, and 13,740 in a stocks & shares ISA. Or do it the other way around. The only rule is that, combined, your tax free ISA savings in the 2015/16 tax year don't exceed 15,240.
Stocks & Shares ISAs. A Halifax stocks and shares ISA gives you a great way to invest up to £15,240 tax efficiently in the 2015/16 tax year. If you don't make full use of your allowance, you won't be able to carry anything over into the next tax year. Account name. Maximum contribution. You can save up to £15,240 in an ISA in the 2015/16 tax year. You can choose to save your ISA allowance of £15,240 in cash, stocks and shares, or any combination of the two provided that you don't exceed more than £15,240 in total for
They are a few different types of ISA. The first is a Stocks & Shares ISA. Everyone aged 18 and above can put up to £15,240 into a Stocks & Shares ISA for the 2015/16 tax year. 1  Find out how you can get a Stocks & Shares ISA using the Motley Fool Share Dealing Service. So you could invest £7,620 into each, or you could invest £5,000 in a cash ISA and £10,240 in a Stocks & Shares ISA. You can even have the whole £15,240 in a cash ISA if you like. You can have both types of ISAs with the same provider, or you can have them with two separate companies.
Also, any profit you make when selling investments in your Stocks and shares ISA is free of Capital Gains Tax. Remember, there is a Capital Gains Tax annual exempt amount (£11,100 for the 2015/16 tax year) which you can claim on your annual tax return. A Stocks and shares ISA is a ‘wrapper’ that can be put around a wide range of different investment products to help save you tax. Lots of different types of investment can be held in an ISA, including: 1  Unit trusts.