Edible Uses: Young leaves of catnip are edible raw. Catnip leaves are used to add flavor to sauces, soups and stews. The dried leaves, seeds or powdered roots can be used as herbal tea. The tea should be infused in a closed container in order to preserve the essential oils, boiling is said to spoil it. 
How to Grow Catmint. Catmint herb is easy to grow. These plants are good for mass planting or edging and are suitable near vegetables as an insect deterrent—especially aphids and Japanese beetles. Catmint can be grown in sun or partial shade with average, well-draining soil. The leaves and shoots can be added to soups and sauces. Tea made from the leaves and flowers can be used for calming nerves and relieving coughs, congestion, and menstrual cramps. Catmint, is an aromatic herb that is commonly grown in the garden. It produces clusters of lavender-blue flowers amid mounds of gray-green foliage
Nepeta cataria. Catmint has a long history of use as a household herbal remedy, being employed especially in treating disorders of the digestive system and, as it stimulates sweating, it is useful in reducing fevers.
Catnip (Nepeta cataria) has less ornamental value in the garden than its catmint (Nepeta mussinii) counterpart. Catnip is also found to be highly attractive to cats, with many of them exhibiting a naturally induced euphoria around the plant. The leaves and shoots can be added to soups and sauces. Tea made from the leaves and flowers can be used for calming nerves and relieving coughs, congestion, and menstrual cramps. Catmint, is an aromatic herb that is commonly grown in the garden. It produces clusters of lavender-blue flowers amid mounds of gray-green foliage
By Heather Rhoades. Catnip plants (Nepeta cataria) can help make your garden a cat-friendly garden. The catnip herb is a perennial member of the mint family that is best known for being attractive to cats, but can also be used in teas to help soothe people. You can also plant catnip from plant divisions or started plants. The best time for planting catnip starts or divisions is in either the spring or fall. Catnip plants should be planted 18 to 20 inches apart.
Best Answer: Sure it is. And, as the catnip stuffed toy ages, the scent of the catnip decreases so your cat may ignore it, or simply play with it regardless. However, not all cats are sensitive to catnip (it is genetic), and if your kitten is under six months, most at that age ignore catnip. They need to be a bit older before they either show interest in catnip or not. Catnip has oils in the leaves that have the active ingredient cats can love.
Catnip is a perennial herb that is native to Europe and Asia but also grows throughout North America and Africa. Both the Latin name and scientific names are derived from the inability of cats to resist the aroma of this plant. It is a hardy, upright, perennial herb with sturdy stems covered with very fine hairs. Catnip bears heart-shaped, grayish-green leaves. Flowers: Catnip flowers are white or near white some having purple spots, are hermaphrodite and are pollinated by bees making this a plant that attracts wildlife.
Nepeta cataria, commonly known as catnip, catswort, or catmint, is a species of the genus Nepeta in the family Lamiaceae, native to southern and eastern Europe, the Middle East, central Asia, and parts of China. 
Advertisement How to Grow Catmint Catmint herb is easy to grow. These plants are good for mass planting or edging and are suitable near vegetables as an insect deterrent—especially aphids and Japanese beetles. Catmint can be grown in sun or partial shade with average, well-draining soil. The leaves and shoots can be added to soups and sauces. Tea made from the leaves and flowers can be used for calming nerves and relieving coughs, congestion, and menstrual cramps. Catmint, is an aromatic herb that is commonly grown in the garden. It produces clusters of lavender-blue flowers amid mounds of gray-green foliage