This article is about the Latin phrase. For other uses, see Ad hoc (disambiguation) . Ad hoc is a Latin phrase meaning for this. It generally signifies a solution designed for a specific problem or task, non-generalizable, and not intended to be able to be adapted to other purposes. Ad hoc can also mean makeshift solutions, shifting contexts to create new meanings, inadequate planning, or improvised events. According to The Chicago Manual of Style, familiar Latin phrases that are listed in Merriam-Webster, such as ad hoc, should not be italicized.
Best Answer: An ad hoc job can mean any one or both of these things: 1. Your duties can be varied in the day, you might be answering the phone, then you might be making the tea, after that you might be asked to carry some boxes to different offices, then you might be asked to go out and post some mail etc. RE: What does an &quot;ad hoc&quot; job mean? I went to an interview yesterday for a salesperson and the interviewer said that the role was an ad hoc role. I should have asked what it meant (because it wasn&#39;t in the job description when I applied) but I didn&#39;t want to seem like I didn&#39;t know what I was doing so I didn&#39;t..
Report Abuse. Ad Hoc basically means for the purpose at hand. Ad Hoc duties as required means things not specifically mentioned in your job description, but that you might be asked to do. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ad_hoc http://www.m-w.com/dictionary/ad%20hoc. MyDogAtticus · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Answer. Ad hoc is a word that originally comes from Latin and means “for this” or for this situation.. In current American English it is used to describe something that has been formed or used for a special and immediate purpose, without previous planning. Ad hoc can be used as an adjective or an adverb. It is used more often as an adjective, especially in these expressions: 1  ad hoc committee. 2  ad hoc group. 3  ad hoc basis.
The purpose of an ad hoc analysis is to fill in gaps left by the business' static, regular reporting. Ad hoc analysis may be used to create a report that does not already exist, or drill deeper into a static report to get details about accounts, transactions, or records. Ad hoc analysis is a business intelligence process designed to answer a single, specific business question. The product of ad hoc analysis is typically a statistical model, analytic report, or other type of data summary.
Best Answer: It's Latin for to this and is used to indicate that something is for a particular purpose and no other. An ad hoc committee, for example, is one set up for a specific purpose, to plan a specific event or make a specific response. Ad Hoc basically means for the purpose at hand. Ad Hoc duties as required means things not specifically mentioned in your job description, but that you might be asked to do. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ad_hoc http://www.m-w.com/dictionary/ad%20hoc. MyDogAtticus · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The phrase ad hoc means something formed for a specific purpose: an ad hoc committee, for example, is the opposite of a standing committee. Thus, ad hoc internal investiga … tions would be specific investigations, rather than a periodic review. 
Continue reading to get a thorough explanation regarding what does ad hoc mean. Ad Hoc is a Latin phrase and literally means 'For this' or 'Towards This' . When one confers from this term, it directly translates to 'For this purpose (only)' ―that is the ad hoc definition. Meaning, as they happen. Ad hoc is also used quite frequently in the contexts of information technology and in journalism as well. Though ad hoc might not be used in an everyday context, it is a very handy word, and now that you know what it means and the contexts it can be used in, you can make use of it well enough.