Lisbon city does not have a beach, but Lisbon Metropolitan Area does have beaches. Lisbon Metropolitan Area is a territorial zone that includes 18 municipalities (being one o … f them the Lisbon city municipality). This means that the urban area of Lisbon extends beyond the administrative city limits. It's Portuguese that's spoken in the Portuguese capital city of Lisbon [Lisboa]. Portuguese is the official language of Portugal. In 1999 Mirandese [lingua mirandesa] was gran … ted co-official recognition as a regional language in local matters.
Lisbon [Lisboa] is the capital city of Portugal [A Republica República]. Portuguesa it also is the largest city In. Portugal lisbon is in Central portugal on the, coast at the point … wh ere The [Tagus] Tejo river empties into The Atlantic. ocean 3 people found this. useful It's Portuguese that's spoken in the Portuguese capital city of Lisbon [Lisboa]. Portuguese is the official language of Portugal. In 1999 Mirandese [lingua mirandesa] was gran … ted co-official recognition as a regional language in local matters.
Lisbon: then and... Lisbon is known as the white city, thanks to its unique light. The clear light and the kind climate allow for marvellous walks all over the city. The city has a beauty that extends beyond its famed monuments that can be experienced in the streets, embraced by all the senses. Alfama is one of the oldest quarters in Lisboa. Since it largely survived the earthquake of 1755, the area still retains much of its original layout. Adjacent to the Alfama are the likewise old quarters of Castelo and Mouraria, on the western and northern slopes of the hill that is crowned by St. George's Castle.
Lisbon (/ˈlɪzbən/ ; Portuguese: Lisboa, [liʒˈboɐ]) is the capital and the largest city of Portugal, with a population of 552,700 within its administrative limits in an area of 100.05 km². Its urban area extends beyond the city's administrative limits with a population of around 2.7 million people, being the 11th-most populous urban area in the European Union. The Lisbon region contributes with a higher GDP PPP per capita than any other region in Portugal. It also ranks as the 10th highest GDP of metropolitan areas in the EU amounting to 110 billion euros and thus €39,375 per capita, 40% higher than the average European Union's GDP per capita.
The Alfama district in Lisbon is known for a particular style of singing called 'fado', very nice, very passionate, and a lovely night out. Seafood is good in Portugal, he should try it. 
With a national identity intimately tied to the ocean, it's no surprise that Portugal's tourism appeal stems largely from the sea, both literally by way of attractive beaches and historically through major landmarks. Portugal's history is marked by its momentous voyages during the Age of Exploration. This storied seafaring past is embodied in the 16th-century Tower of Belem, a top tourist attraction outside the capital city of Lisbon that commemorates the historic 15th-century voyage to India by native son Vasco da Gama.
Lisbon is one of the oldest cities in the world, and the oldest in Western Europe, predating other modern European capitals such as London, Paris and Rome by centuries. Julius Caesar made it a municipium called Felicitas Julia, adding to the name Olissipo. The Lisbon region contributes with a higher GDP PPP per capita than any other region in Portugal. It also ranks as the 10th highest GDP of metropolitan areas in the EU amounting to 110 billion euros and thus €39,375 per capita, 40% higher than the average European Union's GDP per capita.
Lisbon is one of the oldest cities in Europe -- older than London and Paris -- and its position at the intersection of the Tagus River and the Atlantic Ocean made Lisbon the jumping off point for many 15 th-century Portuguese explorers, including Vasco da Gama during the city’s golden age. Modern Lisbon is suffused with the memories of past centuries that emanate from the cobblestone streets and crenellated castle walls.