1 Repeated or prolonged exposure to a heater is a common cause of this condition in elderly individuals. 2  Occupational hazards of silversmiths and jewellers (face exposed to heat), bakers and chefs (arms). 3  Resting a laptop computer on the thigh (laptop computer-induced erythema ab igne). Different types of heat sources can cause this condition such as: 1  Repeated application of hot water bottles, heating blankets or heat pads to treat chronic pain—e.g., chronic backache. 2  Repeated exposure to heated car seats, space heaters, or fireplaces.
Erythema ab igne (EAI, also known as hot water bottle rash, fire stains, laptop thigh, granny's tartan and toasted skin syndrome) is a skin condition caused by long-term exposure to heat (infrared radiation). Different types of heat sources can cause this condition such as: 1  Repeated application of hot water bottles, heating blankets or heat pads to treat chronic pain—e.g., chronic backache. 2  Repeated exposure to heated car seats, space heaters, or fireplaces.
Oct. 4, 2010 -- People who spend prolonged periods of time studying, reading, or playing games on laptop computers resting on their upper legs could develop “toasted skin syndrome,” a case report shows. The heat that causes the condition originates from a laptop computer’s optical drive, the battery, or the ventilation fan. The condition, technically called erythema ab igne, has been observed before on the lower legs of patients who worked in front of open fires or coal stoves.
In toasted skin syndrome, the skin becomes dark and the changes are permanent. In majority of cases, there is no pain or associated itching. However, sometimes patients have described mild itching and burning sensation. It often remains unnoticed by the patient, unless there is associated dark pigmentation. Both young and elderly individuals are prone to toasted skin syndrome. 1  People who keep laptop on their lap for long hours. 2  A person using heating pads and blankets and hot water bottles to relieve chronic pain are prone to this skin problem. 3  Sitting often on heated car seat. 4  It is an occupational hazard among jewelers, bakers and chefs who are ...
It can cause Toasted Skin Syndrome —which could lead to skin cancer in some cases. The toasted skin syndrome is not new. It was first observed on people who work close to extreme heat, like the furnace of old locomotives, wood ovens, coal stoves or open fires. It could also be observed on people who abuse heated pads or blankets. Most probably, that's where the processor was located. Technically, this condition is called erythema ab igne. According to Dr. Jeffrey Benabio, toasted skin syndrome is a red, brown rash that develops as a result of prolonged exposure to heat without an actual burn. The redness develops in a particular pattern, as seen in the photo, called reticulate or net like. Slowing of blood flow in the affected area, called hemostasis, is likely the cause
For those unfamiliar with the condition, toasted skin syndrome, also known as erythema ab igne, is a skin condition that occurs after repeated exposure to heat at temperatures lower than those that cause noticeable burns on the skin. Erythema ab igne, or toasted skin, is not a new condition. 
Balancing your laptop on your knees could cause permanent discolouration of the skin and, in rare cases, cancer, doctors have warned. The heat generated by the computers can cause a nettle sting-like rash-a condition named 'toasted skin syndrome'. Common in the days before central heating, when people huddled around fires and electric heaters to stay warm, it is making a comeback in the laptop generation.
Symptoms Of Toasted Skin Syndrome. The classical symptoms of toasted skin syndrome are as follows: Rash appears on the affected part of the skin. The skin appears pink, red or brown. After a prolonged exposure to heat for several days and months, the skin becomes darkened and discolored. Both young and elderly individuals are prone to toasted skin syndrome. 1  People who keep laptop on their lap for long hours. 2  A person using heating pads and blankets and hot water bottles to relieve chronic pain are prone to this skin problem. 3  Sitting often on heated car seat. 4  It is an occupational hazard among jewelers, bakers and chefs who are ...
The condition can lead to permanent darkening of the skin, and in rare cases, damage that leads to skin cancers. The heat that causes the condition originates from a laptop computer’s optical drive, the battery, or the ventilation fan. The condition, technically called erythema ab igne, has been observed before on the lower legs of patients who worked in front of open fires or coal stoves.