Inc. magazine defines seed funding as the earliest round of capital for a startup company. FundingSavvy, a funding resource website, defines early-stage funding as a startup company's first round of substantial funding. Early-stage funding usually consists of two parts, commonly known as Series A and Series B financing.
Mid-Stage / Mid-Stage Investment defined: A Mid-Stage company is one that has already has established customers, revenues, and business model, but has not yet grown large or mature enough to be considered late stage. (See PrivCo.com Definitions of Late Stage and Early Stage. Above is a definition for Mid-Stage / Mid-Stage Investment from PrivCo's Private Company Knowledge Bank, the definitive online and e-book guide to private companies and private company deals. Click here to download the entire PrivCo Knowledge Bank as a Free PDF. 1  Upgrade to PrivCo Premium. 2  Schedule A Live Demo.
Venture capital financing is a type of financing by venture capital. It is private equity capital provided as seed funding to early-stage, high-potential, growth companies (startup companies) or more often it is after the seed funding round as a growth funding round (also referred to as series A round). 
early stage-Investment & Finance Definition. Financing provided by a venture capital firm to a company after it has received its initial, or seed, financing. At this early stage, the company has a product or service that it is testing or still developing, but it isn’t completely ready to go to market. In some cases, the product may be commercially available in a limited manner but not yet generating revenue. Typically, a company that receives early stage financing has been in business for less than three years. 1  Link/Cite. 2  Home. 3  Dictionary Definitions. 4  early stage.
startup. Early stage in the life cycle of an enterprise where the entrepreneur moves from the idea stage to securing financing, laying down the basis structure of the business, and initiating operations or trading.
Early-stage companies that can successfully grow their business and graduate to the big leagues over a period of time, are likely to reward their shareholders well. Since a substantial proportion of development stage companies fail, a diversified approach is necessary when investing in such companies. While development stage companies usually have limited revenues and earnings, the prospect of substantial profits in a few years time, makes them attractive investments for risk-tolerant investors.
And in an effort to further define early stage, some venture funds distinguish themselves as not seed stage, but early, early stage.. The primary difference between a raw startup company and an early-stage company is evidence of business progress. Early-stage companies are characterized by the following attributes. 
Usually they are the bridge from the self-funded stage of the business to the point that the business needs true venture capital. Angel funding usually ranges from $150,000 to $1.5 million. They typically offer expertise, experience and contacts in addition to money. 1  Seed-The first stage of venture capital financing. 1 At this stage, the business is seeing its first revenues but has yet to show a profit. 2  This is often where the enterprise brings in its first outside investors. 3  First Stage-Capital is provided to initiate commercial manufacturing and sales.
A development stage company is characterized by its focus on early-stage business activities, such as research and development, market research or construction of manufacturing facilities. Development stage companies are generally underfunded and likely to be on the lookout for sources of capital. Next Up. While development stage companies usually have limited revenues and earnings, the prospect of substantial profits in a few years time, makes them attractive investments for risk-tolerant investors.