Tetanus is an infection caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani. Tetanus bacteria are everywhere in the environment, including soil, dust and manure. 
Knowledge center. Tetanus (or lockjaw) is a serious infection caused by Clostridium tetani bacteria which produce a toxin that affects the brain and nervous system. The toxin leads to stiffness in the jaw muscles as well as other muscles. 
Clostridium tetani is a rod-shaped, anaerobic bacterium of the genus species Clostridium. Tetanolysin serves no known benefit to C. tetani. Tetanospasmin is a neurotoxin that causes the clinical manifestations of tetanus. Tetanus toxin is generated in living bacteria, and is released when the bacteria lyse, such as during spore germination or vegetative growth.
Clostridium Tetani and belongs to the genus Clostridium is an anaerobic gram-positive spore-mobile. The environmentally resistant spores are terminal (drumstick). The pathogen growing on the usual anaerobic media in the form of a lawn, wherein the culture is not always successful successful. 
Clostridium tetani is the bacterium that causes tetanus. It is usually found living in soil, animal intestinal tracts and animal manure. Humans can become infected when bacterial spores contaminate wounds. slide 1 of 3. Clostridium tetani is a mobile rod-shaped single-celled anaerobic (can't grow in oxygen) bacterium that is a member of the Clostridium genus.
Description and Significance. Clostridium tetani is a rod-shaped, anaerobic, and endospore-forming bacterium that is responsible for the tetanus disease, a condition of the central nervous system affecting an estimated 350,000 people a year, worldwide. Clostridium tetani is a rod-shaped, obligate anaerobe that is saprophytic in nature. The bacterium forms a terminal endospore through sporulation when survival becomes difficult, usually in the presence of oxygen.
Clostridium tetani is an anaerobic pathogenic bacterium that is primarily found in soil and animal intestinal tracts. As characteristic of all bacteria, C. tetani bacteria are single-celled and do not contain any membrane-bound organelles, such as a nucleus. 
Bacteria Clostridium Tetani. It is not the bacterium that cause tetanus symptoms, but the neurotoxin it produces. The toxin is created when spores germinate and vegetative cells grow after gaining access to a wound. It is only released when the bacterial cell lysis. slide 1 of 3. Clostridium tetani is a mobile rod-shaped single-celled anaerobic (can't grow in oxygen) bacterium that is a member of the Clostridium genus.
C. tetani is found as spores in soil or in the gastrointestinal tract of animals. C. tetani produces a potent biological toxin, tetanospasmin, and is the causative agent of tetanus, a disease characterized by painful muscular spasms that can lead to respiratory failure and, in up to 40% of cases, death. Tetanolysin serves no known benefit to C. tetani. Tetanospasmin is a neurotoxin that causes the clinical manifestations of tetanus. Tetanus toxin is generated in living bacteria, and is released when the bacteria lyse, such as during spore germination or vegetative growth.