This convection oven consists of temperature controls, a timer, drip pan, and rotisserie unit. The heat source is at the top of the oven and the chicken rotates below while cooking. Other types of countertop units may have the heat source in the back of the unit. If checked in the breast of the chicken it should be 170°F. If the chicken has not reached this temperature, continue to cook and check in 15 minute intervals until it is at the proper temperature. When the chicken is done, remove from the heat source and place on a heat proof surface, such as a cutting board.
Preheat the grill to medium-high. Brush the chickens with oil and season the outside and cavities with salt and pepper. Skewer the chickens onto the rotisserie rod and grill, on the rotisserie, for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the chicken is golden brown and just cooked through. Remove from grill and let rest for 10 minutes before serving
Set the rotisserie function on the oven as instructed by the user's manual. The display will read rot when it is on the proper setting. See the manufacturer's user manual for the unit you are using to find the suggested cooking time. The user manual for this oven suggests 120 minutes for a 4 to 5 lb. chicken. If checked in the breast of the chicken it should be 170°F. If the chicken has not reached this temperature, continue to cook and check in 15 minute intervals until it is at the proper temperature. When the chicken is done, remove from the heat source and place on a heat proof surface, such as a cutting board.
Baste chicken: With a basting brush, thoroughly coat chicken with the barbecue sauce of your choice. You will want to baste the chicken (with sauce and drippings) at 20 to 30 minute intervals throughout the cooking process. Cook the chicken: Let chicken cook over indirect heat until the thickest part of the thigh reaches 165°F and has a deep golden skin (1 to 2 hours). Remove the chicken from the grill and let it rest: When finished cooking, remove the chicken from the rotisserie spit and let it set at room temperature for at least 15 minutes. This will give the chicken time to reabsorb its juices. Cut and serve. After the chicken has sufficiently rested.
1 Place the chicken in the oven and roast at 400°F for 20 minutes, then lower the temperature to 375°F and continue to roast for an additional 12 minutes per pound longer. 2  Considering my chicken was 5 lbs. 1 Loosely tie the legs together. 2  Rub the chicken with the olive oil and remaining salt and pepper. 3  Drizzle with the lemon juice. 4 
1 Remove the chicken from the oven, cover with foil and allow to rest for 30 minutes. 2  Reserve the juices from the pan to make gravy. 3  Put the juices in a sauce pan over medium heat and start off with ¼ C flour. 4  Whisk in the flour and then gradually add more flour if needed. 1 If the skin begins to darken too much, cover will foil and continue to bake until an internal temp of 165 is reached. 2  Remove the chicken from the oven, cover with foil and allow to rest for 30 minutes. 3
Preheat oven to 375°F. Rub oil all over chicken. Sprinkle Seasoning over chicken. Place on rack in roasting pan. Roast 1 to 1 1/2 hours until chicken is cooked through (internal temperature of breast reaches 170°F and thigh is 180°F). 
The first time you roast a chicken at high heat, it can seem like magic. With a hot oven and just 45 minutes or so, you can achieve a golden-brown, perfectly juicy bird. No one's saying otherwise. But there's more to chicken than a quick cooking time and crispy skin. There's pure, shameless chickeny flavor. And in that area, no flash-roasting method can compete with the humble rotisserie. With a low oven temp and a longer (much longer) cooking time, rotisserie chicken scores you the kinds of deep, rich flavors and tender textures that only low and slow barbecue can compete with.
1 Drizzle with the lemon juice. 2  Place the chicken in the oven and roast at 400°F for 20 minutes, then lower the temperature to 375°F and continue to roast for an additional 12 minutes per pound longer. 1 Loosely tie the legs together. 2  Rub the chicken with the olive oil and remaining salt and pepper. 3  Drizzle with the lemon juice. 4
1 Rub the chicken with the olive oil and remaining salt and pepper. 2  Drizzle with the lemon juice. 3  Place the chicken in the oven and roast at 400°F for 20 minutes, then lower the temperature to 375°F and continue to roast for an additional 12 minutes per pound longer. 1 Loosely tie the legs together. 2  Rub the chicken with the olive oil and remaining salt and pepper. 3  Drizzle with the lemon juice. 4