How to plant wisteria. You will need to provide the twining stems with an appropriate and very sturdy support. The ideal way to grow Wisterias against a wall is to train them as an espalier, with horizontal support wires (3mm galvanised steel) set 45cm (18) apart. Alternatively, you can train them onto a sturdy pergola, or even into a tree.
4. Tie wisteria branches to a trellis or other support structure so that the main stems are generally growing horizontally rather than vertically. Stems should grow horizontally for at least 5 feet (1.52 m) before growing vertically. Make sure that stems are not allowed to grow downward. 1 Plan to give wisteria a major pruning every 3 years or so to help it keeps its shape. 2  Wisteria need full sun and moist, well-drained soil to blossom. 3  They also prefer a sheltered location such as against the brick wall of house to protect them from the harshest winter winds.
If your garden is an outdoor room, wisteria provides the drapery and slipcover—to camouflage a view or provide living shade over porch and pergola. Something between a vine and a shrub, wisteria blooms vigorously in spring with showy, cascading flower clusters that provide quick-growing color. But, it can be grown in a planter, too. Plant the wisteria vine in a container that’s 2 to 4 times the size of the one it originally came in. Water and feed regularly. The vine needs to be pruned to a manageable size when it starts growing and you may need to transplant it to a larger pot later in the year.
Training and Support of Wisteria. The main trunk of the wisteria is generally the main support once established and trained. Against a wall, the wisterias are best grown and trained to strong galvanised wire stringers. This is essential in the early days (years) of training your wisteria against a wall. If you are going to grow your wisteria as a standard tree, it will need a good hefty stake to see it through the first few years. Thereafter, the top growth of your standard wisteria will also need some sort of frame support.
Overview. Create a wisteria trellis to add visual interest to your garden or outdoor landscape. As a focal point, it will draw your eye into the garden. You can use clippings from pruning to build the structure, creating an interesting and rustic design. Use your trellis to support wisteria's aromatic flowering vines. 
Wisteria (Wisteria sinensis and Wisteria floribunda) is a gorgeous climbing plant with heavy bunches of white, pink, blue, or purple flowers. This plant can grow to enormous proportions and it is ideal for covering pergolas and other outdoor structures needing shade or hiding. Here is how to grow wisteria. Tips. 1  Wisteria can be propagated by seed, cuttings, layering, or grafting. 2  Wisteria has a delicious scent. 3  This plant is suitable to grow in most temperate zones and sub-tropical zones. 4  The wisteria is perfect for winter sun and summer shade. 5  Wisteria likes cool winters.
Wisteria owes its ability to twine readily around a support to the fact that it is a member of the Fabaceae or legume family. Along with its gorgeous flowers, wisteria produces large seed pods. In the early 1800s, collectors imported wisteria seed from China and Japan to the US and Britain. 
I have a beautiful wisteria growing up the side of our porch and onto a railing. I can get it off the railing and onto a support but not sure how to build it. I have read it should be metal. Would love to have something on the side of the porch for privacy or maybe under the ceiling of the porch. 
If planting your wisteria to grow up a trellis, then again ensure that the structure is sturdy enough to support the mature plant. It will be virtually impossible to replace a rotted trellis that Has a Wisteria growing though it. See How and When to Prune Wisteria. If you are going to grow your wisteria as a standard tree, it will need a good hefty stake to see it through the first few years. Thereafter, the top growth of your standard wisteria will also need some sort of frame support.
1 Wisteria can be propagated by seed, cuttings, layering, or grafting. 2  Wisteria has a delicious scent. 3  This plant is suitable to grow in most temperate zones and sub-tropical zones. 4  It is not suitable for tropical zones. 5  The wisteria is perfect for winter sun and summer shade. 6  Wisteria likes cool winters. Tips. 1  Wisteria can be propagated by seed, cuttings, layering, or grafting. 2  Wisteria has a delicious scent. 3  This plant is suitable to grow in most temperate zones and sub-tropical zones. 4  The wisteria is perfect for winter sun and summer shade. 5