Follow along with this simple video to learn how to adjust the temperature on your Samsung Refrigerator so that it suits your needs. If you still require assistance, please call 1-800-SAMSUNG for your customer service options and check out our entire library of videos on demand at www.samsung.com/spsn. 
I have a thermometer now that reads the temperature every 15 min and sends it to my computer. The fridge temperature now ranges from 31.2F to 44.8F. I complained; they came back and changed the sensor, but it did not change anything; the overall variation is still very large (around 13 degrees). The thermistor in the JA main fridge compartment is about 19 inches long and it is inside the rail that mounts the shelves, so yes, it will not show Instant changes in the fridge air temp, but it will and does show any changes that last long enough for the rails, shelves and inside walls of the fridge to change temp.
I have a Amana bottom freezer refrigerator (summer 2007). About two weeks ago, one morning, temperature in the fridge is more than 50 degrees (temp is normal in the freezer). I called a service repairman. The person says that it is the control board and changes it (costly repair: over 350$). The thermistor in the JA main fridge compartment is about 19 inches long and it is inside the rail that mounts the shelves, so yes, it will not show Instant changes in the fridge air temp, but it will and does show any changes that last long enough for the rails, shelves and inside walls of the fridge to change temp.
Refrigerator temperatures do not destroy pathogenic or spoilage microorganisms. The lower temperature does, however, slow the growth of microorganisms already in the food. Perishable food will deteriorate, even at refrigerator temperatures, due to spoilage microorganisms, enzymes and oxidation. 
If it is higher than 40 degrees, adjust the baffle knob to allow more cold air into your fridge and reduce the temperature. If it is lower than 38 degrees, turn the baffle knob the opposite way to restrict the flow of cold air from the freezer to the fridge. Once you've reached a range of 38 to 40 degrees F in your refrigerator, place the thermometer between packages of frozen food in your freezer, then wait five to eight hours. 
Look to the right and left of the dial. Next to cooler or warmer you may see a series of numbers. Dialing 1 number in the cooler direction will drop your refrigerator temp slightly lower, while dialing 1 number in the warmer direction will dial your refrigerator temp slightly higher. 2. Place the thermometer inside a glass of water, and put the glass on your refrigerator's middle shelf. 3. Check the temperature on the appliance thermometer after 5 to 8 hours. The temperature should register between 38 F and 40 F (2 C to 4 C) for safe food storage. 1  Make sure that your thermometer is safe to put in water; not all are
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below).
When you find the right setting, stop. The preferred temperature for many is between 35°F and 38°F. TEMPERATURE DISPLAY: To change the temperature display from Fahrenheit to Celsius, simultaneously press and hold the FREEZER and REFRIGERATOR buttons for approximately 5 seconds. To convert back to Fahrenheit, repeat the procedure.
Lowering the freezer temperature will increase the cooling cycle activity. Setting the refrigerator temperature may have little affect on the cooling cycles because it simply changes the vent opening size. Decreasing the fridge temperature opens the vents more and increases air circulation from the freezer. The temperature can be adjusted using the controls found inside the refrigerator or freezer. The ideal freezer temperature is about 0 to 5 degrees (F) and about 38 degrees (F) for the fridge. Measure the temperature by placing a cup of alcohol or cooking oil with a cooking thermometer into the freezer for about 2 hours. 