If using this carrot puree as a first food, you can add a little breast milk to give it a “softer” taste, adding a flavour that your baby is already used to. You can add cows milk from the age of 6 months if no allergies are suspected or present. 
Apples? Carrots? Hay/grain cubes? I want to try clicker training my new Dexters when they get here, but need to know what they really like for treats. - Michelle. 4 horses, 2 cows, 3 dogs, 12 chickens, 5 turkeys. Reply. 4 horses, 2 cows, 3 dogs, 12 chickens, 5 turkeys. Reply. Why Join BackYard Chicken
Report Abuse. Cows can eat carrots and most vegetables and fruits. Not only can they eat them but they enjoy them very much and produce well if given a steady diet of them. If you travel in the northern Midwest about this time of the year you will see stacks of shredded pumpkins for sale as cattle feed. 
Carrots are good for you, your dog. . . AND your horses! 1 Plus, the rewards are that homegrown carrots taste so much better than store-bought carrots, and it is possibl…. 2  The Health Benefits of Carrots for Dogs Dog lovers and owners are typically good about asking what people foods are good for their dogs, or bad for their dogs for that matter.
A half of a carrot sliced thin twice a day is a good start. Then gradually work up to several carrots over a period of two weeks. So, if you have a 1,000-pound rabbit in your barn that likes carrots, don't worry they are good for him-and you. This means a 1,000 pound horse requires around 13,635 I.U.'s of vitamin A each day. One pound of carrots contains 30,000 I.U.'s of vitamin A. The NRC has determined the upper safe limit of vitamin A for a 1,100-pound horse is 80,000 I.U.'s per day. Vitamin A can be toxic if over-supplemented.
Yes! A carrot, seedless slices of apple, rutabaga, or turnip are all crunchy foods most Labs will enjoy eating from time to time throughout their lives. I feed my labs carr … ots with every meal. It does wonders for their immune system and skin and coat. Feeding carrots also regulates their poo. 1 Plus, the rewards are that homegrown carrots taste so much better than store-bought carrots, and it is possibl…. 2  The Health Benefits of Carrots for Dogs Dog lovers and owners are typically good about asking what people foods are good for their dogs, or bad for their dogs for that matter.
Washed stock feed carrots. Highly palatable. Ideal for ruminants to enhance forage intakes, but conytain below average protein levels (9.5%). They have a dry matter of 11 - 13% and an ME of 12.3 - 12.8 MJ/Kg DM. They are a good source of beta carotene. Typical inclusion 10 - 15 kg/day for dairy cows and 5kg per 100kg bodyweight for all cattle.
1 Healthy snacks like apple slices, carrots, and hay cubes are good places to start for a treat. 2  Many horses will even enjoy a banana. 3  Commercially made horse treats can be a favorite for many horses and they may store and travel better than fresh fruit or vegetables when you’re on the road. 1 Select healthy vegetables and fruits as treats – these taste good to your horse and are usually close to foods they eat in their normal diet, so chances of digestive upset are reduced. 2  Feed only a small amount. 3  Feeding your horse 15 large carrots at a time may create more of a meal than a treat.
Also total avoidance of the nightshade plants like the pepper family are a good idea. Otherwise they will eat: cabbages, kale, mangels, rutabaga's, turnips, carrots, parsnips, sugar beets, sweet potatoes, pumpkin. lettuce, squash, swede. apples, oranges, bananas, cherries, all the berries, peaches, plums, apricots, pears, cantaloupe, watermelons, grapes. coconut flesh, not whole. plus a whole variety of trees and shrubs, like willows, poplars, comfrey. but should avoid pine needles-they will eat them just not good for them.