The superior pharyngeal constrictor muscle originates from the pterygoid hamulus, the pterygomandibular raphe, the retromolar trigone of the mandible and the side of the tongue. It inserts into the pharyngeal tubercle and the pharyngeal raphe. Its function is to constrict the upper portion of the pharynx. The three paired muscles of the inner pharynx act as a group in order to elevate the larynx, shorten the pharynx and act during swallowing and speaking. These muscles are known as the stylopharyngeus, the palatopharyngeus and the salpingopharyngeus.
Pharyngeal diphtheria gets its name from the pharynx, which is the part of the upper throat that connects the mouth and nasal passages with the voice box. This is the most com … mon form of diphtheria, causing the characteristic throat membrane. 2 people found this useful. Pharyngeal gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted bacterial disease, causes a severe sore throat. Gonorrhea in the throat is transmitted by having oral sex with an infected person. …. 1 person
These muscles aid the pharynx in sucking in soil and other food. Like many other annelids earthworms suck their food, thus they need a muscular pharynx. 
An earthworm is a tube-shaped, segmented worm found in the phylum Annelida. They are commonly found living in soil, feeding on live and dead organic matter. Its digestive system runs through the length of its body. 1 Chemical: In addition to dead organic matter, the earthworm also ingests any other soil particles that are small enough—including sand grains up to 1/20 of an inch (1.25 mm)—into its gizzard, wherein those minute fragments of grit grind everything into a fine paste which is then digested in the intestine.
The pharyngeal muscles are a group of muscles that act upon the pharynx. Pharyngeal muscles contracts pushing the food into the oesophagus. There are two muscular layers of the pharynx: the outer circular layer and the inner longitudinal layer. The outer circular layer includes: 1  Inferior constrictor muscle. 2  Middle constrictor muscle.
The main purpose of the pharyngeal constrictor muscles is to allow food received through the larynx to pass through the esophagus. this is achieved when the elevator muscles r … elax, the pharynx descends and the constrictors contract upon the bolus of food. Bolus-a mass of food that has been chewed. Pharyngeal gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted bacterial disease, causes a severe sore throat. Gonorrhea in the throat is transmitted by having oral sex with an infected person. …. 1 person found this useful.
The main purpose of the pharyngeal constrictor muscles is to allow food received through the larynx to pass through the esophagus. this is achieved when the elevator muscles r … elax, the pharynx descends and the constrictors contract upon the bolus of food. The muscle performs many important functions for the body. It  produces movement, maintains posture and gives shape to your body,  stabilizes joints, and generates heat. Mus … cles protect your  internal organs as well. The visceral or smooth muscles assist in  the circulation of bl
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The pharyngeal muscles help food that is getting sucked into the mouth when muscles contract through the pharynx. The muscle performs many important functions for the body. It  produces movement, maintains posture and gives shape to your body,  stabilizes joints, and generates heat. Mus … cles protect your  internal organs as well. The visceral or smooth muscles assist in  the circulation of blood
Earthworm-Nervous System. Above: the anterior part of the central nervous of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris. The nerve cord (shown in green) is ventral in position and runs from the 4th segment all the way to the last segment of the worm. A swelling or ganglion in the cord occurs in each segment. 