A light, relatively hard yet fragile mineral, sodalite is named after its sodium content; in mineralogy it may be classed as a feldspathoid. Well known for its blue color, sodalite may also be grey, yellow, green, or pink and is often mottled with white veins or patches. The more uniformly blue material is used in jewellery, where it is fashioned into cabochons and beads. Lesser material is more often seen as facing or inlay in various applications. Although somewhat similar to lazurite and lapis lazuli, sodalite rarely contains pyrite (a common inclusion in lapis) and its blue color is more like traditional royal blue rather than ultramarine. It is further distinguished from similar minerals by its white (rather than blue) streak.
Angel: Sodalite resonates to Archangel Michael, the Archangel of protection, courage, truth, and strength. This beautiful handmade piece of beaded crystal jewelry along with Michael's assistance will help one to realize the importance of self-esteem and respect for self. It has been said that the longest distance you will ever travel is the journey from your head to your heart. This is the gift of Sodalite. It clears up mental confusion and reestablishes inner peace. Sodalite strengthens the power of mind over body and bridges the gap between your thoughts and your feelings.
Product Description. Archangel Michael-Your Protector Angel. His divine purpose is to shield you from negative energies allowing you to live your life with more confidence and purpose. Our AA Michael Jewelry is made of Sodalite & Crystal Quartz whose properties bring courage and peace. Call on AA Michael when you wear your jewelry and know he has created a shield of protection around you. Each piece of jewelry has been charged with Angelic Energies by Karen Borga
Sodalite is a rich royal blue tectosilicate mineral widely enjoyed as an ornamental gemstone. Although massive sodalite samples are opaque, crystals are usually transparent to translucent. Sodalite is a member of the sodalite group with hauyne, nosean, lazurite and tugtupite. Although somewhat similar to lazurite and lapis lazuli, sodalite rarely contains pyrite (a common inclusion in lapis) and its blue color is more like traditional royal blue rather than ultramarine. It is further distinguished from similar minerals by its white (rather than blue) streak.
People often seek angelic communication for guidance, protection, and inspiration. Or one may wish to contact an angel for spiritual healing or emotional wellbeing. Making contact with angels, spirit guides, and others of the spiritual realm is also a powerful way to advance your spiritual growth. Angels and other spirit beings want to be of help to you; all you need to do is ask for it. Certain stones and crystals can be of great assistance in establishing angelic contact.
Why Would You Use It. This is a lovely blue stone with a calming and soothing vibration, that may help to relieve tension, anger and stress, and it is particularly helpful at times when you may be finding it emotionally difficult to cope with the situation you may find yourself in. One of its strong attributes is that it will help you to make contact with the angelic realm and will aid you with finding your spirit guide. While in a general way this is a strong communication stone, Angelite specifically aids spiritual based communication.
Sodalite. Sodalite Stone has strong metaphysical properties that may stimulate latent creative abilities. It may help you to understand the deeper philosophical principles, and may assist you if you are doing public speaking. Its energy may aid you with developing your intuition and stimulate psychic visions. It is very helpful if you have found your meditation to be lacking depth, or if you have trouble focusing on what you hope or desire to achieve through the experience. If you work with a group, this stone is excellent to accentuate the groups purpose and to better cement the actions and aims of the group.
Sodalite is also is an excellent stone for communication, and this action is strong within the throat chakra. This stone helps you to think rationally and intuitively and to verbally communicate your thoughts both truthfully and in a calm and relaxed manner. It is very helpful if you have found your meditation to be lacking depth, or if you have trouble focusing on what you hope or desire to achieve through the experience. If you work with a group, this stone is excellent to accentuate the groups purpose and to better cement the actions and aims of the group.
Another way to seek angelic contact is through dreams. Put an angel stone under your pillow or hold one in your hand as you drift off to sleep. Have your intention and question placed firmly in the forefront of your mind. Making contact with angels, spirit guides, and others of the spiritual realm is also a powerful way to advance your spiritual growth. Angels and other spirit beings want to be of help to you; all you need to do is ask for it. Certain stones and crystals can be of great assistance in establishing angelic contact.
Sodalite Gemstone meaning. Sodalite brings inner peace. Keep sodalite in your pockets and in every room of your house, so its peaceful properties will flow all around you. Sodalite is a dark blue stone with white calcite interspersed. It is sometimes confused with lapis lazuli as it also has small specks of pyrite in it. Healing properties of Sodalite. Sodalite is associated with the thyroid. It is perfect in a necklace. Wear it when you want to lose a few pounds. It helps in communicating and will give confidence to speak more.