Valley fever is a disease caused by a fungus that gets into your body through your lungs. It can make you feel like you have a cold or the flu and may cause a rash. Most people get better without treatment. But if your body's natural defense system (immune system) is weak, valley fever can be deadly. In rare cases it can be deadly even for people with a normal immune system
Coccidioidomycosis (/kɒkˌsɪdiɔɪdoʊmaɪˈkoʊsɪs/ , kok-sid-ee-oy-doh-my-KOH-sis), commonly known as cocci,  valley fever , as well as  California fever ,  desert rheumatism , and  San Joaquin Valley fever , is a mammalian fungal disease caused by Coccidioides immitis or Coccidioides posadasii. 
Coccidioidomycosis, also called valley fever, is an illness caused by a fungus that is common in some parts of the United States. Valley fever is caused by Coccidioides, a fungus that lives in soil in the southwestern United States and parts of Mexico, Central America, and South America. Inhaling the airborne fungal spores can cause an infection called coccidioidomycosis, which is also known as “cocci” or “valley fever.” Most people who are exposed to the fungus do not get sick, but some people develop flu-like symptoms that may last for weeks to months.
Valley Fever (coccidioidomycosis or “cocci”) is an illness caused by a fungus found in the soil and dirt of some areas of the southwestern United States, and parts of Mexico and Central and South America. In California, the fungus is found in many areas of the San Joaquin Valley (Central Valley). 
Definition. Valley fever is a fungal infection caused by coccidioides (kok-sid-e-OY-deze) organisms. It can cause fever, chest pain and coughing, among other signs and symptoms. Two species of coccidioides fungi cause valley fever. These fungi are commonly found in soil in specific regions. The fungi can then be breathed into the lungs and cause valley fever, also known as acute coccidioidomycosis (kok-sid-e-oy-doh-my-KOH-sis). Mild cases of valley fever usually resolve on their own. In more severe cases, doctors prescribe antifungal medications that can treat the underlying infection. 1  Symptoms.
You can get valley fever if you breathe in the fungus (Coccidioides immitis) that causes the disease. The fungus grows in the soil. It gets into the air when the ground is broken and the dirt and dust spread into the air. It can make you feel like you have a cold or the flu and may cause a rash. Most people get better without treatment. But if your body's natural defense system (immune system) is weak, valley fever can be deadly.
Valley Fever (coccidioidomycosis, or cocci) is caused by the soil-dwelling fungus, Coccidioides immitis. The tiny seeds, or spores, become wind-borne and are inhaled into the lungs, where the infection starts. When soils containing the fungus are disturbed and dust is raised, spores may be inhaled with the dust. 
Valley fever is a disease caused by a fungus that gets into your body through your lungs. It can make you feel like you have a cold or the flu and may cause a rash. Most people get better without treatment. But if your body's natural defense system (immune system) is weak, valley fever can be deadly. You can get valley fever if you breathe in the fungus (Coccidioides immitis) that causes the disease. The fungus grows in the soil. It gets into the air when the ground is broken and the dirt and dust spread into the air. People with jobs that require digging in the soil have the greatest chance of getting valley fever