Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
The ideal freezer temperature is 0 Fahrenheit (-18 Celsius) for storing food. And -10 Fahrenheit (-23 Celsius) is recommended when freezing food. The faster food freezes the smaller the ice crystals. The smaller the ice crystals the smaller the change in texture and better quality when thawed. 
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. En Espanol. Español whether putting food in the, refrigerator the, freezer or the, cupboard you have plenty of opportunities to prevent foodborne. Illnesses the goal is to keep yourself and others from being sickened by microorganisms such As, Salmonella. e Coli:O157, h7 And. c, botulinum which causes. botulism
34°F - 40°F is the ideal refrigerator temperature range. Some Web sites just say under 40°F, but not so cold to freeze fresh foods. Dairy products and meats keep best at the low end of the temperature range. A freezer should be set at 0°F, or lower, if possible. If the temperature gets warmer than +5°F, ice cream will be too soft and won't keep well. A properly working food freezer will operate in the range of -10°F to +2°F, and may go up to around +8°F briefly during the defrost cycle if it is of the frost free type.
A refrigerator maintains a temperature a few degrees above the freezing point of water. Optimum temperature range for perishable food storage is 3 to 5 °C (37 to 41 °F). 
Here’s the short answer: The ideal refrigerator temperature, measured in the middle of the middle shelf, is between 35 and 38 degrees. Your fridge needs to be warm enough so your food doesn’t freeze (32 degrees) but not so warm that it crosses into the bacterial danger zone (above 40 degrees). 
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. The ideal temperature range to store them is between 7°C and 9°C. The potatoes will stay dormant in the cool (i.e. they won't sprout). Room temperature ought to be fine if you don't store them for prolonged periods. In the fridge they will keep for a couple of months.
Using a hygrometer, test the temp and humidity in a variety of places in your fridge, especially the vegetable drawers. You ideally want an average temperature in your refrigerator of about 4-5 degrees C (37-40 degrees F), and a temperature of about -18 to -17 degrees C in your freezer (0-4 degrees F). You’ll notice, though, if you test a variety of locations in your fridge, you’ll learn where it’s coldest and where it’s warmest. 
The USDA says refrigeration temperature should be 40°F (4.4°C) or below. If food is in there at a higher temperature (such as the 43-45°F the question mentions), for longer than 2 hours, and they're saying the food isn't safe. Keep in mind that when too cold, after a while parts of things freeze, which can damage items, or severely diminish their pleasant taste.