Shares & Saves. Save. It is possible to freeze cooked or smoked ham for up to two months. Cooked ham can remain in the refrigerator for no more than 3 to 5 days, as such a large amount of ham needs to either be eaten quickly or frozen to keep it from going rancid. Thaw the ham in the refrigerator or keep it inside the bag and thaw in the sink. It may be necessary to reheat the ham to bring back the cooked texture and to cover any taste acquired through freezing. Frozen ham may appear slick and watery once thawed.
Ham can be frozen 4-6 months. Ham freezes very well.But tends to have lots of … moisture, when you unthaw it.That is contributed to the salt content.You can just squeeze it gently;to remove excess water.Or reheat in the oven with out covering ,and the water will be drawn out. + 149 others found this useful.
If you have leftovers, you can easily store ham in the refrigerator for up to a week. However, if you have a lot, or even a whole cooked or smoked ham left untouched, you can keep it in the freezer for longer storage. Cut up the smoked or cooked ham into small portions. Slice the entire ham, dice it up for soups or casseroles, or break it into bite-sized chunks -- all depending on how you wish to eat the ham later. Step 2. Place your sliced or cut-up ham into airtight freezer bags. Divide the ham among several bags based on how much you plan to use at one time and how you plan to use it. Label the bags with the date you put them in the freezer, using a permanent marker
Ham Bone. Photo © Erin Huffstetler. When your holiday ham is gone, freeze the ham bone, and use it to make soup later. It's easy. Just wrap the bone in foil, freezer wrap or a freezer bag, and pop it in the freezer. Then, try to use it within three months.
You can help keep it fresh longer by storing it in your refrigerator immediately after use. Once prepared, it should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. For a long-term option, you can freeze your ham while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container. 
That way you can pull some out for a sandwich without having to defrost half a ham. Or you can portion out just enough to add to your favorite soup. As for how long the ham lasts in the freezer, I would say after 6 months, you would notice a decrease in the quality of the ham, so I would try to use it before then. I froze my ham bone the last time I made a ham. I pulled it out of the freezer a couple months later. I threw it into a batch of split peas. Answer: Yes you can. In fact I have had some pretty good results with freezing ham. To prevent any problems with freezer burn, I recommend wrapping the ham in heavy duty aluminum foil and then placing it in a gallon sized or quart size sealable plastic bag. Write the day you froze the ham on the outside of the bag.
This is a quote from the Cook's Ham website: The American Meat Institute recommends that you can freeze your ham (before opening the packaging) just as you would other meat for up to 3 months. Other sites recommend that the ham should be used within 2 months. Cured meat doesn't last as long as you'd think in the freezer. See Related Links. If it has been frozen the whole time yes. If the expiration or best-by date was for fresh product, freezing it extended the shelf life. There is no risk of bacterial growth at … 0°F, but cured meats don't last as long in the freezer as you would think due to flavor changes. Use the ham within 1-2 months of freezing.