Cryptosporidium is a living thing (organism) that lives in, or on, another organism (a parasite). It can infect your bowels (intestines) and cause cryptosporidiosis. Cryptosporidiosis is an infection of your bowels (gastroenteritis) which can lead to diarrhoea and sometimes being sick (vomiting). As a living thing (organism) that lives in, or on another organism (a parasite), cryptosporidium passes out in the stools (faeces) of infected humans and animals. It can then be found in soil, water, food, or on surfaces that have been contaminated with the infected faeces.
A number of Cryptosporidium species infect mammals. In humans, the main causes of disease are C. parvum and C. hominis (previously C. parvum genotype 1). C. canis, C. felis, C. meleagridis, and C. muris can also cause disease in humans. Cryptosporidium is highly resistant to chlorine disinfection; but with high enough concentrations and contact time, Cryptosporidium inactivation will occur with chlorine dioxide and ozone treatment.
Cryptosporidium is a genus of apicomplexan protozoans that can cause gastrointestinal illness with diarrhoea in humans. Cryptosporidium is highly resistant to chlorine disinfection; but with high enough concentrations and contact time, Cryptosporidium inactivation will occur with chlorine dioxide and ozone treatment.
cryp·to·spor·id·i·um. n. A protozoan of the genus Cryptosporidium that is an intestinal parasite in humans and other vertebrates and sometimes causes diarrhea that is especially severe in immunocompromised people. [New Latin. , genus name: crypt(o)- + spor(o)- + Latin. , diminutive suff. 
Cryptosporidium parvum is one of several protozoal species that cause cryptosporidiosis, a parasitic disease of the mammalian intestinal tract. 
Cryptosporidium is a protozoan pathogen of the Phylum Apicomplexa and causes a diarrheal illness called cryptosporidiosis. Other apicomplexan pathogens include the malaria parasite Plasmodium, and Toxoplasma, the causative agent of toxoplasmosis. When Cryptosporidium spreads beyond the intestine, as it can predominantly in patients with AIDS, it can reach the lungs, middle ear, pancreas, and stomach. Thus, one symptom is pain in the right upper quadrant. The parasite can infect the biliary tract, causing biliary
Cryptosporidium is a protozoan parasite which causes outbreaks of diarrhea. A number of species of Cryptosporidium can infect mammals. The most common species to infect man is Cryptosporidium parvum. The diarrhea can become severe in children, and in people whose immune system is weakened. It is often found in HIV patients who have diarrhea.
Description: Cryptosporidiosis is a disease of the intestines caused by the protazoa Cryptosporidium parvum. Cryptosporidium is a protazoa that infects the intestines of cattle and causes diarrhea in neonatal calves. C. parvum and C. andersoni have both been isolated from cattle, but only C. parvum is associated with diarrhea in neonatal calves.
Cryptosporidium is a parasite. This is a living thing (organism) that lives in, or on, another organism. It can infect your bowels (intestines) and cause 'cryptosporidiosis'. This is a form of bowel infection called gastroenteritis, which leads to diarrhoea and being sick (vomiting). As a living thing (organism) that lives in, or on another organism (a parasite), cryptosporidium passes out in the stools (faeces) of infected humans and animals. It can then be found in soil, water, food, or on surfaces that have been contaminated with the infected faeces.
Cryptosporidiosis, also known as crypto, is a parasitic disease caused by Cryptosporidium, a protozoan parasite in the phylum Apicomplexa. It affects the intestines and is typically an acute short-term infection. When Cryptosporidium spreads beyond the intestine, as it can predominantly in patients with AIDS, it can reach the lungs, middle ear, pancreas, and stomach. Thus, one symptom is pain in the right upper quadrant. The parasite can infect the biliary tract, causing biliary cryptosporidiosis.