Denise is a female given name. It is one of the feminine forms of the masculine name Dennis. The name Denise is said to be of French origin, though its root names are Dionysius in Greek and Dionysia in Latin. Dionysius is the pagan God of wine, and the name Denise means to be devoted to Bacchus .. 
Denise is a form of the name Dionysius. Variants of the name Denise include Denice, Deniece, Denisa. The name Denisha is a form of Denise. Some famous bearers of this name include: Denise Richards, Denise Levertov. 
The name Denise is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Denise is: From the Latin Dionysos or Dionysus, referring to the Greek god of wine. American Meaning: The name Denise is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Denise is: From the Latin Dionysos or Dionysus, referring to the Greek god of wine. French Meaning: The name Denise is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Denise is: The feminine form of Dennis, from the Latin name Dionysia, or the Greek Dionysus
Denise /den-ise/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced de-NEES. It is of French origin, and the meaning of Denise is follower of Dionysius. Feminine of Dennis, from the Greek name Dionysius. There is an ancient Latin form of the name, Dionysia, but this variant dates back only to the 1920s. Actress Denise Richards.
Personal experiences with the name Denise: | Edit. My name is Denise. When I was a child my brother and I were called Denise and Denephew as a joke. I was born in 1962 in Ontario, Canada. No one had heard of the name Denise, except in Quebec. Comments and insights on the name Denise: | Edit. The popular song of 1963 by Randy and the Rainbows-Oh Denise, made a rare name have a short run of popularity. It is more common today for Denise to be a middle name. It's a nice name.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Denise. Denise is said to be the French feminine form of Denis, a medieval form of Dionysius, the Latin name for the Greek god of wine and celebration, who was the son of Zeus. Denise lurked in the shadows of American female names until sticking to the charts in 1926. For the subsequent two decades, Denise climbed the charts with a determination to reach the Top 100.
Origin of the name Denise: Feminine form of Dennis, which is an English cognate of the Greek Dionysios (a follower of the god Dionysos). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Denise: | Edit. The popular song of 1963 by Randy and the Rainbows-Oh Denise, made a rare name have a short run of popularity. It is more common today for Denise to be a middle name. It's a nice name.
Meanings and history of the name Denise : | Edit. Of French origins, meaning follower of Dionysius (the greek god of wine). An ancient Latin form of the name, Dionysia, dating back to the 1920s. Comments and insights on the name Denise: | Edit. The popular song of 1963 by Randy and the Rainbows-Oh Denise, made a rare name have a short run of popularity. It is more common today for Denise to be a middle name. It's a nice name.
The name Denise is of French origin, and it means Devotee of Dionysos . It's a name commonly given to girls. Denise Richards is an actress with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1986 to present. 