Making the world better, one answer at a time. Although it is commonly thought that 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit is the average oral temperature for an adult, normal temperature can range from 97.1 degrees to about 99.5 degrees. It is a good idea to determine your own normal body temperature by taking your temperature when you feel well. 
Also, your normal body temperature changes by as much as 1°F (0.6°C) throughout the day, depending on how active you are and the time of day. Body temperature is very sensitive to hormone levels and may be higher or lower when a woman is ovulating or having her menstrual period. The body is very good at keeping its temperature within a narrow, safe range in spite of large variations in temperatures outside the body. When you are too hot, the blood vessels in your skin expand (dilate) to carry the excess heat to your skin's surface.
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below 98.6°F (37°C) . The body is very good at keeping its temperature within a narrow, safe range in spite of large variations in temperatures outside the body. When you are too hot, the blood vessels in your skin expand (dilate) to carry the excess heat to your skin's surface.
Normal Body Temperature. Body temperature is usually measured by a thermometer placed in the mouth, the rectum, or the auditory canal (for tympanic membrane temperature). The normal oral temperature is 37° Celsius (98.6° Fahrenheit); rectally, it is 37.3° Celsius (99.2° Fahrenheit). The tympanic membrane temperature is a direct reflection of the body's core temperature. These values are based on a statistical average.
Normal body temperature can range from 97.8 degrees F (or Fahrenheit, equivalent to 36.5 degrees C, or Celsius) to 99 degrees F (37.2 degrees C) for a healthy adult. A person's body temperature can be taken in any of the following ways: Orally. 
The ideal core temperature is considered to be around 98.6° Degree Fahrenheit or 37° degree Celsius. This temperature is however, the average body temperature and the overall normal temperature varies from a minimum of 97.7° Fahrenheit (36.5° Celsius) to a maximum of almost 99.5° Fahrenheit (37.5° Celsius). Any temperature above or below this range is abnormal
The body temperature of a healthy person varies during the day by about 0.5 °C (0.9 °F) with lower temperatures in the morning and higher temperatures in the late afternoon and evening, as the body's needs and activities change. The normal human body temperature is often stated as 36.5–37.5 °C (97.7–99.5 °F). In adults a review of the literature has found a wider range of 33.2–38.2 °C (91.8–100.8 °F) for normal temperatures, depending on the gender and location measured.
In fact normal body temperature can vary according to a wide range of factors including a person's age, the time of day and whether someone is active or not. Normal body temperature also depends on where the temperature reading is taken. For instance, a reading from the armpit will be about 0.5C lower than the body's core temperature.
The NHS says that a normal temperature is around 37C (98.6F), although it depends on: 1  The person. 2  Their age. 3  What they've been doing. 4  The time of day. 5  Which part of the body you take the temperature from. Normal body temperature also depends on where the temperature reading is taken. For instance, a reading from the armpit will be about 0.5C lower than the body's core temperature.
Normal human body temperature, also known as normothermia or euthermia, depends upon the place in the body at which the measurement is made, the time of day, as well as the activity level of the person. Nevertheless, commonly mentioned typical values are: The normal human body temperature is often stated as 36.5–37.5 °C (97.7–99.5 °F). In adults a review of the literature has found a wider range of 33.2–38.2 °C (91.8–100.8 °F) for normal temperatures, depending on the gender and location measured.