Integrative medicine and health reaffirm the importance of the relationship between practitioner and patient, focuses on the whole person, is informed by evidence, and makes use of all appropriate therapeutic approaches, healthcare professionals and disciplines to achieve optimal health and healing. 
Integrative medicine is the practice of medicine that focuses on the whole person and makes use of all appropriate therapeutic approaches, healthcare professionals, and disciplines to achieve optimal health and healing. Integrative medicine is based upon a model of health and wellness, as opposed to a model of disease. Whenever possible, integrative medicine favors the use of low-tech, low-cost interventions.
Integrative medicine is a very broad term that includes any medical approach that combines a traditional or mainstream form of medical practice, like internal or family medicine, with another more holistic or lifestyle approach to health care, like nutrition or acupuncture. Integrative medicine, sometimes referred to as complementary medicine or therapy, is a term used to describe services that support or supplement traditional treatments for conditions or illnesses. Integrative medicine is not intended to take the place of medical therapy, but may help support overall wellness
Integrative medicine got a boost of greater public awareness -- and funding -- after a landmark 1993 study. That study showed that one in three Americans had used an alternative therapy, often under the medical radar. In the past decade, integrative medicine centers have opened across the country. Experts explore new ways to treat the mind, body, and spirit -- all at the same time. By Katherine Kam. WebMD Feature. Reviewed by Brunilda Nazario, MD. At age 68, Martha McInnis has had her share of health woes: breast cancer, high cholesterol, clogged arteries, osteoporosis, and scoliosis -- curvature of the spine.
The Center defines integrative medicine (IM) as healing-oriented medicine that takes account of the whole person, including all aspects of lifestyle. It emphasizes the therapeutic relationship between practitioner and patient, is informed by evidence, and makes use of all appropriate therapies. 
integrative medicine. Integrative medicine is the thoughtful, evidenced-based combination of modern or conventional medicine with holistic medicine to help people on their journey to health and wellness. treating the whole person. Integrative medicine is the thoughtful, evidenced-based combination of modern or conventional medicine with holistic medicine to help people on their journey to health and wellness.
Integrative medicine, which is also called integrated medicine and integrative health in the United Kingdom, combines alternative medicine with evidence-based medicine. Integrative medicine is sometimes lumped together with alternative medicine, which has received criticism and has been called snake oil.. A primary issue is whether alternative practices have been objectively tested.
Both doctors and patients alike are bonding with the philosophy of integrative medicine and its whole-person approach -- designed to treat the person, not just the disease. Experts explore new ways to treat the mind, body, and spirit -- all at the same time. By Katherine Kam. WebMD Feature. Reviewed by Brunilda Nazario, MD. At age 68, Martha McInnis has had her share of health woes: breast cancer, high cholesterol, clogged arteries, osteoporosis, and scoliosis -- curvature of the spine.