You will find the entire naturalization process is outlined below. Please keep in mind that depending on where and when you choose to file your application, the period of time between filling out the application and the interview to become a U.S. citizen can vary from 5 months to more than 2 years! The total processing time should take around 6 months from the time you submit your application with all required documents and your interview, and becoming a citizen, if their are no delays on your case. Hope this helps some. Good luck on wanting to become a U.S. Citizen.
While the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) does not restrict the processing of citizenship applications to a specific time frame, it is common for many applicants to be interviewed and approved for citizenship within 12 to 15 months from their original application date. 
This Site Might Help You. RE: How long does the naturalization process take to become a United States citizen in Michigan? My cousin will be applying for naturalization Mid-march as in Mid-June he would&#39;ve been a permanent resider for 5 years, and legally your allowed to apply 3 month prior to the 5 years. show more My cousin will be applying for naturalization Mid-march as in Mid-June he would've been a permanent resider for 5 years, and legally your allowed to apply 3 month prior to the 5 years. He's wondering how long the process will take once applying to become a citizen (i.e. once sending out the N-400 form)...
by FreeAdvice staff. Once your application for naturalization is filed, the approval time to become a US citizen varies by person and location. The short answer is that it can take anywhere from 5 to 8 months between application and interview. If you live in an area with heavy immigrant populations, it is not unusual to wait 2 years or more to become a US citizen. If you are still confused about any part of the naturalization process, contact an immigration lawyer. They can assist you in reviewing your application so that you do not create unnecessary delays for yourself as you apply
The swearing-in ceremony for receiving the naturalization certificate will take place from 1 to 180 days after the interview, although in a few U.S. of Citizenship and Immigration Services (formerly known as the INS) district offices, it can take another 1 or 2 years. The total processing time should take around 6 months from the time you submit your application with all required documents and your interview, and becoming a citizen, if their are no delays on your case. Hope this helps some. Good luck on wanting to become a U.S. Citizen.
The swearing-in ceremony for receiving the naturalization certificate will then take place from 1 to 180 days after the interview, although in a few U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS, formerly known as the INS) district offices, it can take another one or two years. 1. Submit Your Complete U.S. Citizenship Application: To be able to apply for citizenship through naturalization, you have to meet the following requirements. You should: 1  Be 18 years of age or above. 2  A lawful permanent resident for 5 years (3 years if married to a US citizen). 3  Have maintained continuous residence during the past 5 years (3 years if married to a US citizen)
1 A lawful permanent resident for 5 years (3 years if married to a US citizen). 2  Have maintained continuous residence during the past 5 years (3 years if married to a US citizen). 3  Have maintained physical presence during the past 5 years (3 years if married to a US citizen). 1. Submit Your Complete U.S. Citizenship Application: To be able to apply for citizenship through naturalization, you have to meet the following requirements. You should: 1  Be 18 years of age or above. 2  A lawful permanent resident for 5 years (3 years if married to a US citizen). 3  Have maintained continuous resid
Depending on where and when you choose to file your application, the period of time between sending in the completed application and the interview to become a U.S. Citizen can vary from five months to more than two years. 