Remember to take your resting heart rate over at least 3 days so that you can get an average reading. For example if on day one you record 72 bpm (beats per minute) day two you record 78 bpm and on day three you record 72 bpm, then your average is 74 bpm.
The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 4
Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
Young children, under 10, have a resting heart rate range from 70 to 120 beats per minute. Adults generally have a resting heart rate of 60 to 100 beats per minute. Resting heart rate is an approximate measurement and one of many tools used for testing your health.
Dear Brett, A heart rate of 38 beats per minute (bpm) can be normal in a well-trained endurance runner at age 60. The heart rate normally lowers at rest. And distance running over four years could cause a reduction in resting heart rate from 60 bpm to 38 bpm.
Defining the rates. While the ranges of the resting heart rate vary based on the qualities of the individual, the average rate for a person in good health is between 60 and 75 beats per minute. An athlete is excellent condition can have a rate as low as 40 to 50 BPM.
Your resting heart rate is the heart pumping the lowest amount of blood you need because you’re not exercising. If you’re sitting or lying and you’re calm, relaxed and aren’t ill, your heart rate is normally between 60 (beats per minute) and 100 (beats per minute), Stein said.