Glucose-galactose malabsorption is a condition in which the cells lining the intestine cannot take in the sugars glucose and galactose, which prevents proper digestion of these molecules and larger molecules made from them. Glucose and galactose are called simple sugars, or monosaccharides. 
Malabsorption syndrome refers to a number of disorders in which the intestine can’t adequately absorb certain nutrients into the bloodstream. It can impede the absorption of macronutrients (proteins, carbohydrates, and fats), micronutrients (vitamins and minerals), or both. Proteins, carbohydrates, fats, and most fluids are absorbed in the small intestine (small bowel). Malabsorption syndrome occurs when something prevents the bowel from absorbing important nutrients and fluids. The problem may be caused by inflammation, intrinsic disease, or injury to the lining of the intestine
Malabsorption occurs when nutrients are not properly extracted and absorbed from food during the digestive process. This can result in a deficiency of vitamins, proteins, minerals, carbohydrates, and other nutrients that are important for growth and regulation of body systems. In the case of malabsorption, there is a breakdown in this process in the intestine such that nutrients are not properly absorbed, but rather, excreted through the stool.
Malabsorption is a condition in which the body does not effectively absorb nutrients from food in the small intestine. Malabsorption can be caused by a wide variety of diseases or disorders, including celiac disease, chronic liver disease, chronic pancreatitis, Crohn's disease, and lactose intolerance. Malabsorption may also occur when a disease or disorder interferes with the normal mixing of food with digestive juices and acid in the stomach. This can occur when part of the stomach is removed surgically.
Malabsorption is a state arising from abnormality in absorption of food nutrients across the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Impairment can be of single or multiple nutrients depending on the abnormality. This may lead to malnutrition and a variety of anaemias. However, generalized malabsorption of multiple dietary nutrients develops when the disease process is extensive, thus disturbing several digestive and absorptive processes, as occurs in coeliac disease with extensive involvement of the small intestine.
Background. Malabsorption is a clinical term that encompasses defects occurring during the digestion and absorption of food nutrients by and infections of the gastrointestinal tract. The digestion or absorption of a single nutrient component may be impaired, as in lactose intolerance due to lactase deficiency. To understand the mechanisms of malabsorption, understanding the normal physiologic process of digestion and absorption by the intestinal tract is necessary. In general, the digestion and absorption of food materials can be divided into 3 major phases: luminal, mucosal, and postabsorptive.
Print. Malabsorption is a term for any condition in which one or more essential nutrients or minerals are not properly digested or absorbed by the intestines. 