Some causes of hiccups include: 1  Eating too quickly and swallowing air along with foods. 2  Eating too much (fatty or spicy foods, in particular) or drinking too much (carbonated beverages or alcohol) can distend the stomach and irritate the diaphragm, which can cause hiccups.
Summary: Hiccups is reported only by a few people with Dehydration. We study 5 people who have Hiccups and Dehydration from FDA and social media. Find out below who they are, other conditions they have and drugs they take.
1 Abdominal surgery can also irritate the nerves that control the diaphragm, causing hiccups. 2  Strokes or brain tumors involving the brain stem, and some chronic medical disorders (such as renal failure) have also been reported to cause hiccups.
1 Dehydration and Hiccups and Body symptoms (4 causes). 2  Dehydration and Hiccups and Digestive symptoms (4 causes). 3  Dehydration and Hiccups and Esophagus symptoms (4 causes). 4  Dehydration and Hiccups and Mouth
Hiccups (an involuntary spasm of the diaphragm and respiratory organs, with a sudden closure of the glottis and a sound like a cough) has been reported by people with high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes, pain, multiple myeloma, quit smoking. (latest reports from 3,545 Hiccups patients).
Hiccups are sudden, involuntary contractions of the diaphragm muscle. As the muscle contracts repeatedly, the opening between the vocal cords snaps shut to check the inflow of air and makes the hiccup sound. Irritation of the nerves that extend from the neck to the chest can cause hiccups. Although associated with a variety of ailments (some can be serious such as pneumonia or when harmful substances build up in the blood for example from kidney failure), hiccups are not serious and have no clear reason for occurring.
Hiccups can be caused by irritation of the nerve that controls the diaphragm, certain drugs, problems in the brain, problems in the esophagus (the swallowing tube that goes from the throat to the stomach), pressure on the stomach, and other conditions.
The most common cause of long-term hiccups is damage to or irritation of the vagus nerves or phrenic nerves, which serve the diaphragm muscle.Factors that may cause damage or irritation to these nerves include: 1  A hair or something else in your ear touching your eardrum.