With a Doctorate in Psychology. To become a licensed psychologist, you will need to complete the required degree for licensure, which is typically a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD). The type of doctoral degree you choose will depend largely on your career goals. 
Program Duration. Generally, the exact time it takes to earn a doctorate in psychology depends on several factors, such as type of program and a student's life circumstances. For example, students who must work or attend to family or other concerns may opt for part-time study. 
I spent 4 years getting my bachelor's degree and then went directly into my PhD program without any additional experience (although I had research experience in undergrad). The least amount of time it will take you for graduate school is 5 years (4 years of school plus one year of internship). However, lots of people take 6 or 7 years. So total, it should take about 9-11 years with undergrad and graduate. Update: You don't necessarily need an undergraduate degree in psychology, but most programs require that you have completed a certain number of undergraduate psychology courses (around 18 semester hours).
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years). The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work. Master's Degree (2 to 3 Years). A master's degree will give you a broad introduction to the field of psychology. You can then use your electives to focus your study in a particular field.
To earn your Ph.D. in psychology, you will need 5-7 years to earn the degree. You will need to finish all of the required classes and you also will have to do an internship or residency of some sort. A Ph.D. program usually ends with a detailed and long dissertation. This paper tends to be 200-300 pages in length and can take you a year or more to complete. The lengthy dissertation is a major reason why earning your Ph.D. takes so long. To earn your Psy.D. degree, you need 4-6 years to finish
But here is a general timeline. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years). The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work. Master's Degree (2 to 3 Years). A master's degree will give you a broad introduction to the field of psychology. You can then use your electives to focus your study in a particular field.
1 Clinical Psychologist: Doctorate Degree in Psychology (4 to 7 years of graduate school). 2  Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 3  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 1 Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 2  Social Worker: Bachelor’s Degree (4 to 5 years of undergraduate school). 3  Licensed Counselor
Length of a Ph.D. Typical doctoral programs in psychology take 5-7 years to complete, though the length of time may vary based on the program and other factors. Program in Psychology. Typical doctoral programs in psychology take 5-7 years to complete, though the length of time may vary based on the program and other factors. Most doctoral psychology programs require full-time attendance, and very few are offered online.
Obtaining a PhD in psychology usually requires 5 to 7 years of graduate study after the bachelor's degree is received. Usually, a dissertation is required, but a PsyD degree can be based on practical work experience and exams instead. Viper1 I just finished my Bachelor's in Psychology. It actually takes anywhere from 180-195 credits, and does take four years if you are taking 2 classes a semester. If you take on a heavier class load, it is possible to graduate in 3 years.