1. Add CD. Run the CDA to MP3 Converter, put your audio CD into your computer's CD drive. Click button and select disc, then click button to load CDA files from your audio CD to the CDA converter. 2. Add CDA Files. Check the cda files you would like to convert to MP3 and then confirm. 3
Using audio from audio CDs. You can use CD audio (CDA) files in a project, but before you can import them into Premiere Pro, you need to convert them to a supported file format, such as WAV or AIFF. You can convert CDA files using an audio application such as Adobe® Audition®. 
Files that contain the .cda file extension store CD audio track shortcuts. CDA files are small files that are created for each track of an associated audio CD by the Microsoft Windows operating system. Files containing the .cda file extension are automatically created when you play an audio CD on your computer. 
Hi, CDA is a file extension for a CD Audio shortcut file format. Used by Microsoft Windows to refer to audio tracks on a CD, a CDA file doesn’t contain audio but is simply a shortcut to the tracks on an audio disc. CDA files are files created by the computer's CD drivers which point to the location of a track. MP3 is a file type which uses compression to save space. To convert CDA file to MP3 first make space for your files. Yes, this service from iTunes is totally free. See below on how to convert CDA file to MP3 using iTunes: 1  Insert CD to your computer disc drive. 2  Click “Import CD” button. 3  Add these files to your iTunes Library. 4  Right click on the file and hit “Convert selection to MP3″
How to convert CDA files to MP3 (or Wav/Wma/Vorbis/Flac) with FreeRIP. The first thing you must know is .CDA files are not audio files, they are just a way that Windows uses to let you access an Audio CD index. When I say that they are not audio files, I mean that they do not contain sampled sound at all! If you copied some .CDA file to your hard drive or to a different media.....sorry, you can't convert them to MP3 format. You will need to find the original CD and rip its tracks
CD Audio (.cda) tracks are audio files that can be stored on CD media. The .cda files are representations of CD audio tracks and do not contain the actual pulse code modulation (PCM) information. Cda files can be played only from a CD-ROM. To test a .cda file, either try to play a different .cda file from your CD-ROM or try to play a .cda file from a different CD-ROM. Copied from the CD-ROM to the hard disc it cannot be played. This is format used for encoding music on all commercial compact discs.
The first thing you must know is .CDA files are not audio files, they are just a way that Windows uses to let you access an Audio CD index. The actual music in a .cda file or CD music is not formatted in a way that can be played over the Internet. 
These files are created by the Windows CD driver. They are simply representations of the CD audio tracks and are not actually on the CD. Each .CDA file is a kind of a pointer to the location of a specific track on the CD and contains no musical information. It's a good question with a simple answer: there are no .CDA files on a CD. In fact, from a Windows perspective, there are no files at all. A music CD differs greatly from your hard drive or floppy disk drive in the way information is stored. Hard drives and floppy disks store data in concentric rings called tracks