1 The Barcelo Barceló Punta cana hotel is an amazing all inclusive beachfront hotel located In Punta (Cana Dominican). ( 2 republic.18,-734242.68) 472204. 3  Edit Barcelo Barceló, Bavaro Bávaro, Beach. 4  carretera | bavaro Bávaro, Km, ☎ +1 23301 bavaro bávaro, [higuey].  1 809 686 5797 14 1 Be Live Grand Punta Cana Located to the east of the Caribbean coast of Punta Cana on the beach front protected by the coral reef and surrounded by a large tropical garden. 2  It is close to the Fishing Yacht Club, 7 minutes from the golf courses and just 20 minutes from Punta Cana International Airport.
Seeing is believing. And our all-inclusive Punta Cana hotels boast an awe-inspring range of sights. Punta Cana is located at the south-eastern tip of the Dominican Republic. Some of the best beaches in the world can be found here, with dazzlingly white sand, turquoise waters and coconut palms growing right down to the sea's edge. 
The Punta Cana area has an estimated population of 100,000, with a growth rate of six percent. To the north, it borders the village and beach of Cabeza de Toro, and then the Bavaro bávaro And El cortecito. beaches Europeans, particularly Spanish hotel chains, own all but two of the 50+ megaresorts of the Punta Cana tourism destination. The province’s 100-kilometre (62 mi) coastline tends to be mildly windy. The ocean waters are mainly shallows, with several natural marine pools in which visitors can bathe without any danger.
Punta Cana is the name of a region in the easternmost tip of the Dominican Republic. Covering about 420,000 m2 (approximately 1,100 acres), the region is home to a coastline of sandy white beaches and to a town of the same name. 1 Be Live Grand Punta Cana Located to the east of the Caribbean coast of Punta Cana on the beach front protected by the coral reef and surrounded by a large tropical garden. 2  It is close to the Fishing Yacht Club, 7 minutes from the golf courses and just 20 minutes from Punta Cana International Airport.
The Atlantic. Although Punta Cana is at the end of the island, so it's also near the Caribbean Sea [still part of the Atlantic Ocean as opposed to any other ocean]. MomSezNo · 6 years ago. 
Along one of the finest beaches in the Dominican Republic, Dreams Punta Cana Resort and Spa is the perfect getaway for couples, families, and friends. Dreams Punta Cana is the winner of the Best Family Friendly Resort and the Best Pool in the Caribbean for the TripAdvisor Traveler`s Choice Awards. Just returned from a one week stay in Punta Cana, Dreams Hotel. It was a wonderful week, the staff was friendly the service was excellent. The entertainment staff's goal is to make sure the guests have fun and they do a great job at it. The Entertainment staff was a joy to be with.
Punta Cana has a tropical climate. Although it is mildly windy, the ocean in the area is mainly shallow, with several natural marine pools in which visitors can bathe. The weather is fairly constant, with an average temperature of 26°C. 1 Be Live Grand Punta Cana Located to the east of the Caribbean coast of Punta Cana on the beach front protected by the coral reef and surrounded by a large tropical garden. 2  It is close to the Fishing Yacht Club, 7 minutes from the golf courses and just 20 minutes from Punta Cana International Airport.
From north to south, the main beaches are Uvero Alto, Macao, Arena Gorda, Bavaro, Bávaro El, Cortecito Las corales And cabeza De, toro all north of the; cape And Cabo, Engano Engaño punta Cana and juanillo south of. the cape Europeans, particularly Spanish hotel chains, own all but two of the 50+ megaresorts of the Punta Cana tourism destination. The province’s 100-kilometre (62 mi) coastline tends to be mildly windy. The ocean waters are mainly shallows, with several natural marine pools in which visitors can bathe without any danger.
Discover an all-inclusive retreat on the magnificent beaches of Punta Cana, immersed among tropical palm trees along the crystal clear Caribbean Sea. Nestled along sand white beaches, Ocean Blue & Sand offers unparalleled beauty and all-inclusive luxury. Tropical landscapes provide poolside canopies, seasoned with the Caribbean flavors of its nine unique restaurants, and an array of activities synchronized to a local Latin beat. 