3 Section C, Case study: Whale Rider Maori culture The culture and traditions of the Maori people are central to the narrative of Whale Rider. Maori people are the indigenous people of New Zealand, which means the fi rst people to have populated it. It is believed they may have originated from Polynesia. 
genre. Fiction, Memoir. Witi Ihimaera is a novelist and short story writer from New Zealand, perhaps the best-known Māori writer today. He is internationally famous for The Whale Rider.Ihimaera in New Zealand and is of Māori descent and Anglo-Saxon descent through his father, Tom. He attended Church College of New Zealand in Temple View, Hamilton, New Zealand. He was the first Māori writer to publish both a novel and a book of short stories
Whale Rider (also known as The Whale Rider) is a 2002 New Zealand-German family drama film directed by Niki Caro, based on the novel of the same name by Witi Ihimaera. The film stars Keisha Castle-Hughes as Kahu Paikea Apirana, a twelve-year-old Maori girl who wants to become the chief of the tribe. Her grandfather Koro believes that this is a role reserved for males only. The film was a coproduction between New Zealand and Germany. The film's plot follows the story of Paikea Apirana (Pai) In the book, her name is Kahu, short for Kahutia Te Rangi. The leader should be the first-born grandson – a direct patrilineal descendant of Paikea, aka Kahutia Te Rangi in the book, the Whale Rider – he who rode on top of a whale from Hawaiki.
On the east coast of New Zealand, the Whangara people believe their presence there dates back a thousand years or more to a single ancestor, Paikea, who escaped death when his canoe capsized by riding to shore on the back of a whale. Paikea: And he came on the back of a whale. A man to lead a new people. Our ancestor, Paikea. But now we were waiting for the firstborn of the new generation, for the descendant of the whale rider. For the boy who would be chief. Paikea: There was no gladness when I was born.
WHALE RIDER is set in the Maori community of New Zealand. According to legend, the Maori came to Whangara when their great leader Paikea led them by riding on a whale. Ever since, the Maori have been led by the descendants of that leader. The movie begins with the birth of twins, the latest in that line. Parents Need to Know. Parents need to know that Whale Rider has some tense family confrontations. The death of a mother and baby in childbirth is very sad. A character is injured but ultimately recovers. There's brief strong language regarding female and male genitalia
W hale Rider is a film about a rejected leader. Paikea (Keisha Castle-Hughes) is the only surviving child of a chief’s son. Her twin, the hoped-for son and future chief, died at birth along with his mother. Her father Porourangi (Cliff Curtis) names her after Paikea, the legendary whale rider who brought their people to New Zealand eons ago. The spiritual law requires that the banner is passed from first son to first son on through the line.