Most Popular Baby Names of 2014. Here are the most popular names, by year, from the favorite name lists of the millions of BabyNames.com members. Also check out The Most Popular Names Around the World ! Because most of our members are currently pregnant or just thinking about it, our pop lists have actually predicted the future trends of baby name popularity. Rankings include alternate spellings of the same name, for example Aidan, Aiden and Aden. View year: 
Marie (including spelling variations) – currently popular in Brazil, Argentina, Germany, Spain, Belgium, Iceland, Estonia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, and the Philippines. Sarah – currently popular in Belgium, France, Iceland, Ireland, Norway, Spain, and Canada. Names such as Aliyah (Hebrew), Aidan (Irish), Guadalupe (Spanish), Amaya (Basque), and Maddox (Welsh) are rising in popularity. Parents are tapping into their cultural roots to give their babies a more unique name that will give the child a strong cultural identification.
See our list of the year's most popular baby names for boys and girls. 100 most popular baby names of 2000. Most popular baby names through history. Find out the most popular baby names each year, from today's hottest names all the way back to the darlings of the 1800s. 
There are many internationally used names that are currently in the top ten charts throughout the world. Here are some examples: Popular Girl Names: Emma – currently popular in Belgium, Sweden, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, Norway, Netherlands, and Scotland. Names such as Aliyah (Hebrew), Aidan (Irish), Guadalupe (Spanish), Amaya (Basque), and Maddox (Welsh) are rising in popularity. Parents are tapping into their cultural roots to give their babies a more unique name that will give the child a strong cultural identification.
Hello, Guest. The most popular baby names, including the 1000 most popular names in the U.S. and on Nameberry and the 100 most popular names in other countries around the world. Check popularity by name:
How many girls / women are named. . . in the United States? The following tables include the 1000 most common female first names in the US population during the 1990 census. Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Population Division, Population Analysis & Evaluation Staff. Last update: 20 November 2005. Note: most popular name rankings have been updated here. 
Most Popular Baby Names. The most popular baby names, including the 1000 most popular names in the U.S. and on Nameberry and the 100 most popular names in other countries around the world. Check popularity by name:
Top names by State. The following table shows the five most frequent given names for male and female babies born in each year 1915-2014. Over the last 100 years, the male name Michael has held the top spot most often (44 times), while the female name Mary has been ranked number one 41 times over those years. 
Popularity by region [edit]. The names listed in the following tables, unless otherwise noted, represent the most current top 10 breakdowns of what newborn children are commonly being named in the various regions of the world. The most popular given names vary nationally, regionally, and culturally. Lists of widely used given names can consist of those most often bestowed upon infants born within the last year, thus reflecting the current naming trends, or else be composed of the personal names occurring most within the total population.
Muhammad is the most popular babies’ name in England and Wales, when its three main spelling variations are counted. Amelia was the top name for girls for the third year in a row. More than 7,400 boys were called Muhammad, Mohammed or Mohammad last year. Oliver, the name which officially took the top spot, was only given to 6,949 babies. Muhammad is thought to be the most popular name in the world, given to an estimated 150 million men and boys. Statisticians put the high numbers down to the tradition amongst some Muslim families of naming their first-born after the Islamic prophet. After two years of Royalty at number one, Harry has now been replaced by Oliver as the official most popular boys name in England and Wales.