Report Abuse. Well, from the pain it sounds like Ovulation.... and implantation is 6-12 days after ovulation.. so it can't be implantation just yet....but hopefully it will happen to you soon!! My husband and i are also TTC and we have been trying since August! and I just had ovulation Tuesday! so we will see.. Answers. Best Answer: Chances are if it was an ectopic ud be doubled over in severe stabbing pain. but it is always a possibility since its so early. Implantation can happen anywhere from 6 days past ovulation until 14 days past
Implantation is the process by which a fertilized ovum (egg) implants into the uterine wall to obtain oxygen and nutrients from the mother. This usually occurs between 6 and 8 days after conception. Conception itself can occur anywhere between a few hours and 5 days after intercourse. This is because sperm can live inside your uterus and fallopian tubes for up to 5 days.
Well, from the pain it sounds like Ovulation.... and implantation is 6-12 days after ovulation.. so it can't be implantation just yet....but hopefully it will happen to you soon!! Answers. Best Answer: Chances are if it was an ectopic ud be doubled over in severe stabbing pain. but it is always a possibility since its so early. Implantation can happen anywhere from 6 days past ovulation until 14 days past
Implantation in the uterine lining usually occurs around 6 to 12 days after you ovulate and the egg is fertilized. Your egg was most likely fertilized at ovulation (mid-cycle) and takes a trip down the tube and into the uterus where it nestles into its home for the next 9 months. Symptoms of implantation usually occur a few days after implantation at around 10 to 14 days after ovulation. Some women may confuse these symptoms with symptoms of an oncoming period and think nothing of it. The symptoms of implantation include: 1  Bloated feeling.
It is by this adhesion that the foetus receives oxygen and nutrients from the mother to be able to grow. In humans, implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, ranging between 6 and 12 days. The implantation window follows around 6 days after the peak in luteinizing hormone levels. With some disparity between sources, it has been stated to occur from 7 days after ovulation until 9 days after ovulation, or days 6-10 postovulation.
Conception can make your hormones change so your body may be responding to that. Implantation usually happens 6-12 days after conception and you can possibly get a positive pregnancy test about 4 to 5 days after implantation occurs, if you are pregnant. Takes at least 3-4 days after implantation to get a positive result on a HPT. So to be the new guy it would have had to be at least 10 days before you got a + and you only had 6. Little one wouldn’t have even implanted yet.
Implantation typically occurs 6 to 10 days after ovulation, or day 20 to 24 of a menstrual cycle. However, it can happen a few days earlier or later. In an average 28-day cycle, ovulation occurs on day 14 with the first day of a woman's period being considered day 1 in a cycle. 
Implantation happens when the fertilized egg arrives in the uterus and attaches to the uterine lining. Implantation occurs on average 9 days after ovulation and fertilization, it can happen as early as 6 days after ovulation until 12 days after ovulation. The timing of implantation spotting is within a day or so after implantation, about 9-10 days after ovulation and fertilization. Implantation happens between 6 and 12 days after ovulation, so about 9-10 days after ovulation would be the right time for implantation bleeding and spotting. Implantation bleeding or spotting are among the top signs of early pregnancy. Take the Implantation/Spotting Quiz and find out what it could be. Implantation bleeding can be seen about a day or so after implantation, which happens about 9 days after ovulation/fertilization (range: 6-12 days).
At this early stage of prenatal development, the embryo is called a blastocyst. Implantation of a fertilized ovum is most likely to occur about 9 days after ovulation, but can range between 6 to 12 days. Use this calculator to find the most likely date range for implantation based on your cycle: 