Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mild fungal skin diseases can look like a rash and are very common. Fungal diseases in the lungs are often similar to other illnesses such as the flu or tuberculosis.
1). Fungi may not be our next of kin, but they are more closely related to animals than they are to plants. We also recognize that organisms traditionally studied as fungi belong to three very different unrelated groups: the true fungi in Kingdom Fungi (Eumycota), the Oomycetes, and the slime molds (Fig. 1). Many of the same fungi that kill seedlings can also infect the roots of mature plants and cause root and crown rot diseases. Infection often occurs through wounds, and results in lesions or death of part or all of the root system and crown.
Abundant worldwide, most fungi are inconspicuous because of the small size of their structures, and their cryptic lifestyles in soil, on dead matter. They are both symbionts of plants, animals, or other fungi and also parasites. They may become noticeable when fruiting, either as mushrooms or as molds. Fungi perform an essential role in the decomposition of organic matter and have fundamental roles in nutrient cycling and exchange in the environment. The discipline of biology devoted to the study of fungi is known as mycology (from the Greek μύκης, mukēs, meaning fungus). In the past, mycology was regarded as a branch of botany; today it is a separate kingdom in biological taxonomy.
Tags: Fungi can be found in rising bread, moldy bread, and old food in the refrigerator, and on forest floors. Most decompose non-living things, but some damage crops and plants. A few cause problems in people, such as Candida, which causes yeast infections. 
Such diseases are called mycoses or fungal infections fungal infection,infection caused by a fungus (see Fungi), some affecting animals, others plants. Fungal Infections of Human and Animals Many fungal infections, or mycoses, of humans and animals affect only the outer layers of skin, and although they are..... Basidiomycota includes the gill fungi (most mushrooms mushroom,type of basidium fungus characterized by spore-bearing gills on the underside of the umbrella-or cone-shaped cap. The name toadstool is popularly reserved for inedible or poisonous mushrooms, but this classification has no scientific basis......
Molds are multicellular, filamentous fungi that are commonly found on foods. Yeasts are any unicellular fungus. Being single celled and eukaryotic, yeasts make excellent research organisms for studying processes that can be applied to humans as well. 
Some fungi are specialized parasites of nematodes, rotifers, and other microscopic animals in the soil (Barron 1977). A common nematode predator is Arthrobotrys oligospora, a fungus that has evolved sticky networks of hyphae for trapping nematodes. Many of the same fungi that kill seedlings can also infect the roots of mature plants and cause root and crown rot diseases. Infection often occurs through wounds, and results in lesions or death of part or all of the root system and crown.
Fungi belong to a group called a Kingdom. Fungi have similar characteristics to plants and are sometimes mistakenly put in the Plant Kingdom. Plants have chlorophyll that helps them make their own food and makes them green. Fungi have no chlorophyll. Fungi decay dead organic matter or grow on other organisms to get nutrients for growth. Animals belong to their own Kingdom as do bacteria.
Some are good to eat, but some are deadly. They can also grow on your feet causing them to become itchy, known as athlete's foot. Some fungi can cause ringworm on the body. Many species are often found on foods in the form of yeasts and molds. Plants have chlorophyll that helps them make their own food and makes them green. Fungi have no chlorophyll. Fungi decay dead organic matter or grow on other organisms to get nutrients for growth. Animals belong to their own Kingdom as do bacteria.
Fungi. Fungi can be single celled or very complex multicellular organisms. They are found in just about any habitat but most live on the land, mainly in soil or on plant material rather than in sea or fresh water.