$1,198.44. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Garage Door! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Garage Door Installation project. For a basic 1 door project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Garage Door ranges between $695.35 - $1,198.44 per door. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Garage door opener repair can cost between $100 and $300 depending on the extent of the problem. Return to Top. The type of garage door you select -- and any extra pieces or labor required -- will influence how much you pay to have it professionally installed. Here are some factors to consider as you look to invest in a new garage door: A garage door will cost anywhere from $200 for single doors to $4,000 for two or more doors, with better materials accounting for the higher cost. Most homeowners report spending about $1,060 for the door and installation.
The price of a garage door installation depends on a variety of factors, including the type of door, size of door and material used. Steel doors are generally less expensive than wooden doors. A thicker, well-insulated door raises the price. The price of a garage door factors in the cost of materials, including connectors, adhesives and fasteners and the price of labor. A garage door should be installed by a professional as it can entail precise carpentry and electrical work. A professional garage door installation can usually be done within a day. The national average cost of a garage door installation, including labor and material, ranges from $700.92 to $1,345.92, according to homewyse.com. Receiving bids from several reputable contractors can help you get the best value on installation costs
Use a Lowe's professional installer for your garage door opener installation project. Shop Lowe's for garage door openers, garage doors, garage door opener accessories and garage door hardware. Use our Garage Door Opener Selector to choose the right garage door opener for your home. Browse garage door openers on Lowes.com or at your local Lowe's store. Work with a Lowe's sales associate to plan your install project and select the right garage door opener for your home and budget.
According to DIYOrNot.com, it should cost between $500 and $800 to install a single new garage door. They demonstrate that the average homeowner can usually tackle such a project in a nine hour time span and a professional will be able to complete it in roughly five hours. 1 Openers-not all automatic garage door openers are alike. 2  The prices will range from $150 to $300 installed and should come with the option for secure automatic openers that add no more than $50 each to the total cost of the project.
Typically, it will cost less to install a steel garage door without an opener than to install a custom wood door with a garage door opener. Recent innovations have also yielded high-tech doors with thick insulation and energy-efficient glaze, as well as finished interior surfaces and other significant upgrades. Here are some factors to consider as you look to invest in a new garage door: A garage door will cost anywhere from $200 for single doors to $4,000 for two or more doors, with better materials accounting for the higher cost. Most homeowners report spending about $1,060 for the door and installation.
Lowe's Garage Door Install. Let a Lowe's professional complete your new garage door installation project. Shop Lowe's for garage door openers, garage door opener accessories and garage door hardware. Check out our Garage Door Buying Guide for ideas on choosing the right garage door for your home. Get Inspired. Browse garage doors on Lowes.com or at your local Lowe's store. Work with a Lowe's sales associate to plan your install project and select the right garage door for your home and budget.