Diseases and Condition-How to Cure them. In ayurvedic context a disease can be defined as the state in which the balance of the three Doshas (energy types) in the human body is disturbed. The three doshas; vata, pitta and kapha are found in every human being, out of which only one or two are believed to b dominant. To know in detail about various diseases and ailments and their ayurvedic treatments, click on the links given on the left side of the page. AYURVEDA. DISEASES. HOME REMEDIES. HERBAL MEDICINES. CUSTOMER SERVICE | PRIVACY POLICY | DISCLAIMER | AYURVEDA BLOG. AYURVEDA | SITE MAP. © 2005-09 Ayurvedic-Medicines.org.
Use of herbal supplements is unsafe if you have kidney disease since some herbal products can cause harm to your kidneys and even make your kidney disease worse. Also, your kidneys cannot clear waste products that can build up in your body. 
Can Ayurveda Treat Kidney Failure Effectively. Considered as the oldest healing science, Ayurveda is a holistic approach rather than a single treatment that help people live long and healthy. Some kidney failure patients especially Indians prefer to use this approach to treat their disease. The goal of Ayurveda is to prevent kidney disease rather than treating it, because all of the above remedies can do nothing to the damaged kidney tissues. Our kidneys have some certain self-curative ability.
Ayurveda Treatment for Toothache. Toothache is another common disease that can affect you at any time. After a particular age, teeth become weak and chances are high for broken and infected tooth which causes severe pain. There are nerves passing through each tooth; thus an infection on teeth can cause very severe pain. Cavities, exposed tooth, gum diseases etc… can result in frequent toothaches. Asafetida, clove and onion are used in Ayurveda to treat toothache. Asafetida acts fasts on teeth and reduces pain. Ayurveda Treatment for Common Fever. Same as common cold, common fever also affects everybody frequently. Unlike the cold, fever could be considered seriously as when neglected the fever can transform into pneumonia or such deadly diseases.
Ayurveda remedies for common diseases. Ayurveda has prescribed several simple homemade medications to prevent and fight such common ailments. Let us see few of the very common diseases and the Ayurvedic remedies for them. Ayurveda Treatment for Common Fever. Same as common cold, common fever also affects everybody frequently. Unlike the cold, fever could be considered seriously as when neglected the fever can transform into pneumonia or such deadly diseases.
TOTAL HEART SUPPORT. It is effective and natural treatment for rheumatic heart disease, heart failure, heart disease. These capsules are 100% vegetarian, purely herbal supplement and without any side effects. The blockage of rheumatic arteries can be cleared with the help of this natural remedy. 1 Rheumatic fever, an inflammatory disease, can affect many connective tissues, especially in the heart, joints, skin, or brain. 2  Rheumatic fever causes heart damage-particularly scarring of the heart valves-forcing the heart to work harder to pump blood and may eventually cause congestive heart failure.
Auto immune diseases are diseases of the immune system. (For specific names of auto immune diseases see the list of autoimmune diseases below). Depending on the particular disease there are various symptoms. Common autoimmune disease symptoms include a low grade fever, pain in joints and fatigue. When I was diagnosed with a rare autoimmune disease in the spring of 2004, the doctors gave me a brochure and a website and basically said “good luck”. There was no cure for this rare autoimmune disease and it would likely take my life after a very slow and painful decline. That wasn’t okay with me.
To know more about the procedure of diagnosis click here. Treatment. Ayurveda follows a multidisciplinary approach towards the treatment of the diseases. Some of the general methods of treatment undertaken in ayurveda are: 1  Palliative treatment: this method involves reducing the doshas. 2  Purification treatment: This part of the treatment involves the removal of the toxins and doshas from the body. 3  Vamana or Induced Vomiting. 4  Virechana Or induced Purgation. To know in detail about various diseases and ailments and their ayurvedic treatments, click on the links given on the left side of the page. AYURVEDA. DISEASES. HOME REMEDIES. HERBAL MEDICINES. CUSTOMER SERVICE | PRIVACY POLICY | DISCLAIMER | AYURVEDA BLOG. AYURVEDA | SITE MAP. © 2005-09 Ayurvedic-Medicines.org.