The White Rabbit is a fictional character in Lewis Carroll 's book Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. He appears at the very beginning of the book, in chapter one, wearing a waistcoat, and muttering Oh dear! Oh dear! 1 He has little in common with the image of the white rabbit other than white rabbit ears, a large oversized pocketwatch, and a suit. 2  He is desperately in love with Alice and often caught rhyming as he speaks. 3  Alice does mention hating him on several occasions and claims to hate White Rabbit ears the most.
The rabbit is also a symbol of Ostara (see Rabbit Meanings Around the World below), an ancient fertility goddess whose symbols are rabbits, various flowers and eggs (more life/growth/fertility themes!). That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.
Symbolic Rabbit Meanings. Animal Symbolism of the Rabbit. Symbolic rabbit meanings deal primarily with abundance, comfort, and vulnerability. Traditionally, rabbits are associated with fertility, sentiment, desire, and procreation. That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.
In Roman times, the white rabbit symbolized love and sexuality. It was believed that the rabbit was the pet of the Goddess of love, Aphrodite. In addition, the hunting and tracking the hare has remained an exciting sporting event across Europe and other cultures because of its speed and difficulty to catch. 
In the present day, Alice and the Knave of Hearts arrive at the White Rabbit's house where the White Rabbit wants Alice to do what she wants with him. Alice asks the White Rabbit for her help one last time. 1 He has little in common with the image of the white rabbit other than white rabbit ears, a large oversized pocketwatch, and a suit. 2  He is desperately in love with Alice and often caught rhyming as he speaks. 3  Alice does mention hating him on several occasions and claims to hate White Rabbit ears the most.
A mother rabbit can have forty or more babies a year. That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.
Symbolic Rabbit Meanings via Physical/Behavioral Associations. Rabbits love to chew, and their teeth never stop growing. Symbolically, chewing implies repetition, contemplation, and breaking concepts down into component parts. Their diet is light and green, which implies symbolism of health and prosperity. That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.
In cycles of the Labours of the Months, rabbits frequently appear in the spring months. In Francesco del Cossa 's painting of April in the Palazzo Schifanoia in Ferrara, Italy, Venus ' children, surrounded by a flock of white rabbits, symbolize love and fertility. In Judaism, the rabbit is considered an unclean animal, because though it chews the cud, does not have a divided hoof .. This led to derogatory statements in the Christian art of the Middle Ages, and to an ambiguous interpretation of the rabbit's symbolism. The  shafan  in Hebrew has symbolic meaning.
In the book, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, the rabbit is described as, a White Rabbit with pink eyes.. He is wearing a waistcoat with a watch in the pocket. At one point … he is carrying a pair of gloves and a fan and during the trial he is holding a trumpet in one hand and a scroll of parchment in the other. 
To see a rabbit in your dream signifies luck, magical power, and success. You have a positive outlook on life. Alternatively, rabbits symbolize abundance, warmth, fertility and sexual activity. The dream can also be associated with Easter time and your own personal memories of Easter. In particular, to see a white rabbit in your dream symbolizes faithfulness in love. The white rabbit also serves as a guide to steer you toward the right direction. To see a black rabbit in your dream refers to fear of intimacy. If the rabbit is hopping in your dream, then it indicates fertility. 