Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) exposed at the Earth's surface can become a sedimentary rock. The forces of wind, rain, snow, and ice combine to break down or dissolve (weather), and carry away (transport) rocks exposed at the surface. 
There are three major rock types: igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary. Igneous rocks, such as granite or basalt, form as a result of a magma (molten rock) that has cooled to form a variety of interlocking crystals. 
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Most sedimentary rocks contain either quartz (especially siliciclastic rocks) or calcite (especially carbonate rocks). In contrast to igneous and metamorphic rocks, a sedimentary rock usually contains very few different major minerals.
1 Igneous; they form from the cooling of magma deep inside the earth. 2  They often have large crystals (you can see then with the naked eye). 3  Metamorphic; they are formed through the change (metamorphosis) of igneous and sedimentary rocks. 4  They can form both underground and at the surface. The short story is this: 1 
The most common clastic sedimentary rocks are breccia and conglomerate (formed from gravel), sandstone (from sand), siltstone (from silt), and shale (from clay). B. CHEMICAL SEDIMENTARY ROCKS. Chemical sedimentary rocks are crystalline, that is made of crystals interlocked with each other. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Conceptually, that is the same texture we see in igneous and metamorphic rocks, but NOT in clastic sedimentary rocks. Chemical sedimentary rocks form because of the precipitation of crystals from aqueous (water) solutions and from chemical residues. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical
If the magma cools slowly, large crystals form in the rock. This can happen if the magma cools deep underground. Granite and gabbro are examples of this type of rock. They are intrusive igneous rocks because they form from magma underground. Unlike sedimentary rocks, igneous rocks do not contain any fossils. This is because any fossils in the original rock will have melted when the magma formed. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2
Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Sedimentary Rock. Sedimentary rocks form from the broken pieces of other rocks or from the accumulation of the hard body parts of marine organisms. Now here’s an important concept to remember: sedimentary rocks can form from all the other rock types – igneous rocks, metamorphic rocks and other sedimentary rocks.