I’ve made osso buco, an Italian dish of braised veal shanks, several times. I’ve eaten it in fine Italian restaurants but I’ve never really liked it until now. 
Add the tomato paste and mix well. Return browned shanks to the pan and add the white wine and reduce liquid by half, about 5 minutes. Add the bouquet garni and 2 cups of the chicken stock and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low, cover pan and simmer for about 1 1/2 hours or until the meat is falling off the bone. Check every 15 minutes, turning shanks and adding more chicken stock as necessary. Add tied veal shanks to the hot pan and brown all sides, about 3 minutes per side. Remove browned shanks and reserve. In the same pot, add the onion, carrot and celery. Season with salt at this point to help draw out the moisture from the vegetables.
I open the braising chapter with one of Italy's most renowned braises: osso buco. It's a classic Milanese dish usually made with veal shanks cooked in a rich broth that includes tomato and wine. I salt the meat before cooking it, a technique that tenderizes the veal. 1 9. 2  To serve, cut and discard the twine, put a single osso buco (veal shank) in a bowl, and ladle about 3/4 cup of the sauce and vegetables over it. ( 3 If the sauce and the meat are not still warm, heat them together very gently over low heat for 8 to 10 minutes.).
Osso buco is a classic Italian recipe made by slow cooking veal shanks until the meat is tender and succulent. Veal shanks are tough cuts of meat with a lot of connective tissue in them. 
Brimming with rich, deep flavors, Easy Beef Osso Buco is a slow cooker classic. With just 30 minutes of preparation in the morning, this warm stew cooks in 8 hours while you are at work or running errands throughout the day and is ready to eat when you get home. 
1 3 Saute sauté the osso buco for 2 minutes on each. 2  side 4 then add the & vegetables continue cooking the osso, buco turning frequently until it is & nice. 3  colored 5 add the white wine cook until the wine is reduced by/2. 4  3 6 add the, tomatoes, aromatics crack of & pepper, salt water or & stock bring up to a.  simmer 1 4 Then add the vegetables & continue cooking the osso buco, turning frequently until it is nice & colored. 2  5 Add the white wine cook until the wine is reduced by 2/3. 3  6 Add the tomatoes, aromatics, crack of pepper & salt, water or stock & bring up to a simmer.
[ˌɔsːoˈbuːko]) is a Milanese speciality of cross-cut veal shanks braised with vegetables, white wine and broth. It is often garnished with gremolata and traditionally served with risotto alla milanese. There are two types of ossobuco: a modern version that has tomatoes and the original version which does not. The older version, ossobuco in bianco, is flavoured with cinnamon, bay leaf and gremolata. The modern and more popular recipe includes tomatoes, carrots, celery and onions.
Definition of OSSO BUCO. : a dish of veal shanks braised with vegetables, white wine, and seasoned stock. os·so bu·co also os·so buc·co \ˌō-sō-ˈbue-(ˈbü)ˌ, kō-ˌȯ-\. sō 
Ossobuco or osso buco is Italian for bone with a hole (osso bone, buco hole), a reference to the marrow hole at the centre of the cross-cut veal shank. In the local Western Lombard Milanese dialect, this dish's name is oss bus. There are two types of ossobuco: a modern version that has tomatoes and the original version which does not. The older version, ossobuco in bianco, is flavoured with cinnamon, bay leaf and gremolata. The modern and more popular recipe includes tomatoes, carrots, celery and onions.
Ad. To make osso buco, cooks brown veal shanks in a large pot before setting them aside and sauteeing onions, along with other vegetables of choice such as carrots, celery, and tomatoes.