The speed of an interplanetary solar sail spacecraft will depend on how long it has been propelled by the pressure of sunlight. The acceleration from sunlight is very small -- approximately five ten-thousandths of a meter per second per second, depending on the size and weight of the sail and the spacecraft. A photon reflecting off the mirror-like surface of a solar sail gives the sail a double kick -- a push equal to twice the photon's momentum (one push from the sail stopping the photon and one from it reflecting the photon and accelerating it away).
The top speed of a solar sail craft is estimated to be about 18,600 miles per second, or about 1/10 the speed of light. Future solar sail mission The most latest solar sail mission will be next year when nasa will launch its 13000 sq ft big solar sail to demonstrate the solar sail can be used in Future for space travels. Speed As u said the max speed will depend upon the size and mass of the sail.
In just three years, a solar sail could reach a speed of over 160,000 kilometers per hour (100,000 miles per hour). At that speed you could reach Pluto in less than five years. A photon reflecting off the mirror-like surface of a solar sail gives the sail a double kick -- a push equal to twice the photon's momentum (one push from the sail stopping the photon and one from it reflecting the photon and accelerating it away).
Still, 160,000 kilometers per hour (100,000 miles per hour) is still only 0.00015 the speed of light. It would take about 1,000 years for a solar sail to reach one-tenth the speed of light, even with light shining on it continuously. This emphasizes just how hard interstellar flight is. A photon reflecting off the mirror-like surface of a solar sail gives the sail a double kick -- a push equal to twice the photon's momentum (one push from the sail stopping the photon and one from it reflecting the photon and accelerating it away).
If NASA were to launch an interstellar probe powered by solar sails, it would take only eight years for it to catch the Voyager 1 spacecraft (the most distant spacecraft from Earth), which has been traveling for more than 20 years. Sooner or later, no matter how fast it goes, the rocket ship will run out of power. In contrast, the solar sail craft has an endless supply of power from the sun. Additionally, the solar sail could potentially return to Earth, whereas the rocket powered vehicle would not have any propellant to bring it back.
the speed of an interplanetary solar sail spacecraft will depend on how long it has been propelled by sunlight the acceleration from sunlight is very small and depends on the size and weight of the sail and spacecraft for our lightsail 1 the acceleration from the solar force will be approximately 0 06 mm per second per second the real advantage of solar sailing is that unlike a chemical rocket that applies a lot of thrust for a very short time sunlight hitting the sail applies thrust continuously
As it continues to be pushed by sunlight, the solar sail-propelled vehicle will build up speeds that rocket powered vehicles would never be able to achieve. Such a vehicle would eventually travel at about 56 mi/sec (90 km/sec), which would be more than 200,000 mph (324,000 kph). Sooner or later, no matter how fast it goes, the rocket ship will run out of power. In contrast, the solar sail craft has an endless supply of power from the sun. Additionally, the solar sail could potentially return to Earth, whereas the rocket powered vehicle would not have any propellant to bring it back.
Solar sails (also called light sails or photon sails) are a form of spacecraft propulsion using the radiation pressure (also called solar pressure) from stars to push large ultra-thin mirrors to high speeds. A 15-meter-diameter solar sail (SSP, solar sail sub payload, soraseiru sabupeiro-do) was launched together with ASTRO-F on a M-V rocket on February 21, 2006, and made it to orbit. It deployed from the stage, but opened incompletely.
The total force exerted on an 800 by 800 meter solar sail, for example, is about 5 newtons (1.1 lbf) at Earth's distance from the Sun, making it a low-thrust propulsion system, similar to spacecraft propelled by electric engines. A 15-meter-diameter solar sail (SSP, solar sail sub payload, soraseiru sabupeiro-do) was launched together with ASTRO-F on a M-V rocket on February 21, 2006, and made it to orbit. It deployed from the stage, but opened incompletely.
That speed is about 10 times faster than the space shuttle's orbital speed of 5 mi/sec (8 km/sec). To give you an idea how fast that is, you could travel from New York to Los Angeles in less than a minute with a solar sail vehicle traveling at top speed. Sooner or later, no matter how fast it goes, the rocket ship will run out of power. In contrast, the solar sail craft has an endless supply of power from the sun. Additionally, the solar sail could potentially return to Earth, whereas the rocket powered vehicle would not have any propellant to bring it back.