Dogs pant when they are hot, but heavy dog panting means something is wrong with the dog. It can be due to overheating (heat exhaustion), or if your dog pants even while resting, it may mean that he has some underlying health problem, such as a heart problem. This page looks at the common causes of excessive heavy panting in dogs and what you can do to deal with the issue.
Dogs pant. They pant when they exercise, when they are hot, they pant when they are excited. Panting is your dog's way to cool their body. Because dogs don't sweat like we do the only effective way they can cool themselves is by panting. All dogs do that and it is perfectly normal.
Dogs tend to pant a great deal. Because they don't sweat the way humans do, panting is their way of cooling down when they are overheated, in a particularly warm climate, after exerting themselves. This is not, however, the only reason why dogs pant. Panting is also an important way for dogs to oxygenate their blood.
It can be due to overheating (heat exhaustion), or if your dog pants even while resting, it may mean that he has some underlying health problem, such as a heart problem. This page looks at the common causes of excessive heavy panting in dogs and what you can do to deal with the issue.
All dogs pant sometimes -- it's just part of how their bodies work. But if your dog can't seem to control his heavy breathing, it could indicate a health problem. When his panting seems like it just won't stop, it's time to give your vet a call.
Some common reasons dogs pant heavily include: Heatstroke or poisoning. It’s normal for a dog to start breathing harder or panting after exertion. And some dogs, like Boston terriers, bulldogs, and pugs, are prone to heavier breathing than other dogs because of their short snouts.
As we all know, dogs pant when they are hot because they do not have as many sweat glands as we do. (The only few sweat glands that they have are on the pads of their feet.) Instead of sweating bullets like humans do, dogs cool themselves by breathing and panting.
It’s normal for dogs to pant, especially when they’re hot, excited, or energetic. Heavy panting is different, though, and may be a sign your dog is dangerously overheated, coping with a chronic health problem, or has experienced a life-threatening trauma.