Bridgend railway station (Welsh: Gorsaf Pen-y-bont) is a mainline railway station, serving the town of Bridgend, South Wales. 
The local Member of Parliament is Madeleine Moon (Labour), the Welsh Assembly Member for Bridgend is Carwyn Jones AM (Labour) along with regional AMs (South West Wales) Byron Davies AM (Conservative), Suzy Davies AM (Conservative), Bethan Jenkins AM (Plaid Cymru) and Peter Black AM (Liberal Democrat). Bridgend is on the National Cycle Route and there are off-road spurs from the Celtic Trail to the town centre and a community route in the Ogmore Valley. Glyncorrwg and the Afan Valley about 12 miles (19 km) north of Bridgend near Maesteg is famed for its mountain bike trails, considered amongst the best in Europe.
For other places with the same name, see Bridgend (disambiguation). Bridgend (Welsh Penybont ar Ogwr) is a town in Glamorgan, South Wales. It is the principal town of the County Borough of Bridgend and has a population of around 40,000 people. Bridgend has a compact town centre and can easily be walked around in 15 minutes. The town centre is pedestrianised and between 10am and 6pm is vehicle free. There are numerous public footpaths linking to areas in and around Bridgend like Merthyr Mawr, Ogmore, Penyfai and Coychurch.
Bridgend (Welsh: Pen-y-bont ar Ogwr) is a town in the County Borough of Bridgend in South Wales. It is midway between Cardiff and Swansea. The river crossed by the original bridge which gave the town its name is the River Ogmore but the River Ewenny also passes to the south of the town. South of Bridgend the River Ewenny merges with the River Ogmore and flows into the Bristol Channel. In the 15th century, a stone bridge was built to connect permanently each side of the River Ogmore (later rebuilt). Originally this bridge had four arches but in the 18th century a massive flood washed two of them away.
Wildmill railway station, approximately 1-mile (1.6 km) north of Bridgend railway station serves the estates of Wildmill, Pendre and Litchard and is on the Bridgend-Maesteg branch line. Bridgend is on the National Cycle Route and there are off-road spurs from the Celtic Trail to the town centre and a community route in the Ogmore Valley. Glyncorrwg and the Afan Valley about 12 miles (19 km) north of Bridgend near Maesteg is famed for its mountain bike trails, considered amongst the best in Europe.
Historically a part of Glamorgan, Bridgend has greatly expanded in size since the early 1980s – the 2001 census recorded a population of 39,429 for the town and the 2011 census reports that the Bridgend Local Authority had a population of 139,200 up from 128,700 in 2001. Bridgend is on the National Cycle Route and there are off-road spurs from the Celtic Trail to the town centre and a community route in the Ogmore Valley. Glyncorrwg and the Afan Valley about 12 miles (19 km) north of Bridgend near Maesteg is famed for its mountain bike trails, considered amongst the best in Europe.
detailed map of Bridgend and near places. Welcome to the Bridgend google satellite map! This place is situated in Bridgend-Pen-Y-Bont Ar Ogwr, Wales, Wales, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 30' 21 North, 3° 34' 38. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Bridgend. See Bridgend photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Bridgend in United Kingdom
Where is Bridgend, Wales, United Kingdom Located? Bridgend is a city/town with a small population in the country of Wales which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Bridgend include Aberkenfig-Bryncoch, Pencoed, Porthcawl and Pont Rhyd-y-cyff. The closest major cities include Cardiff, Bristol, Plymouth and Wolverhampton. 
Bridgend (English pronunciation: /brɨˈdʒɛnd/ ; Welsh: Pen-y-bont ar Ogwr, meaning The main bridge on the River Ogmore or alternatively Bridgehead on the River Ogmore (suggesting a battle), is a town in Bridgend County Borough in Wales, 18-mile (29 km) west of the capital Cardiff and 20-mile (32 km) east of Swansea. Bridgend is on the National Cycle Route and there are off-road spurs from the Celtic Trail to the town centre and a community route in the Ogmore Valley. Glyncorrwg and the Afan Valley about 12 miles (19 km) north of Bridgend near Maesteg is famed for its mountain bike trails, considered amongst the best in Europe.
Reviews: 1 user | 17 critic. Bridgend follows Sara and her dad, Dave as they arrive to a small village in Bridgend County. The village is haunted by suicides amongst its young inhabitants, and Sara falls dangerously ... See full summary ». From what I can gather, the story of Bridgend is not too far detached from the reality. It's set in Bridgend County, where many mysterious suicides among young have taken place. We follow a young woman who moves to Bridgend with her father.