The Spanish Empire became the foremost global power of its time, and was the first to be called the empire on which the sun never sets. The empire, administered from Madrid by the Spanish Crown, comprised territories and colonies in Europe, the Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania. Beginning in 1522 in the newly conquered Mexico, government units in the Spanish Empire, from viceroyalties down to governorships (provinces), had a royal treasury controlled by a set of officiales reales (royal officials). There were also sub-treasuries at important ports and mining districts.
All three European powers were driven in their economic goals of imperialism by mercantilism and the idea that the world’s wealth was finite. The imperial goals of the British French and Spanish were also similar in that they all sought to increase the authority of their respective states. The desires of the British, French, and Spanish to expand their influence are best demonstrated with the continuous state of conflict in and around their imperial holdings.
Another difference amongst the imperial goals of the British, French, and Spanish was that of a religious nature. The religious goals of the British were those of asylum; whereas the French and Spanish sought to gain converts. The desires of the British, French, and Spanish to expand their influence are best demonstrated with the continuous state of conflict in and around their imperial holdings.
In the early 19th century, the Spanish American wars of independence resulted in the emancipation of most Spanish colonies in the Americas, except for Cuba and Puerto Rico, which were finally given up in 1898, following the Spanish–American War, together with Guam and the Philippines in the Pacific. These began a movement for colonial independence that spread to Spain's other colonies in the Americas. The ideas from the French and the American Revolution influenced the efforts. All of the colonies, except Cuba and Puerto Rico, attained independence by the 1820s.
Although the English and French both initially sought gold in North America, it was soon discover that no gold was present in the French and British imperial holdings and they sought out other means to acquire wealth and commerce in North America—the continuous economic imperial goal of the British, French, and Spanish. The desires of the British, French, and Spanish to expand their influence are best demonstrated with the continuous state of conflict in and around their imperial holdings.
In the years leading up to the Spanish American War, the United States experienced a growth in ethnocentrism, a belief in manifest destiny and Anglo-Saxonism. It was this combination of views that provided the moral impetus allowing for the U.S. public to support the efforts to make the country into an imperial power. 
(Answer #1). The three reasons the Spanish had for colonizing are usually listed as gold, god, and glory.. Gold meant that one of the goals of Spanish colonization was to find gold or to otherwise get economic benefits from the colonies. God meant that one of their goals was to spread Christianity. This was a goal that they emphasized very strongly at least in their rhetoric. 
The Spanish-American war was a new kind of war involvement for the U.S. It was not for freedom, it was not an internal conflict. It was fought over expansion and the idea of spreading American influence in the Caribbean and in the Philippines. 
Moving on to the Philippines, this is one island nation that was not new to imperialism! This archipelago was under Spanish rule since the 16th century! It is even named for King Philip II of Spain! From the beginning of American imperialism, the U.S. didn't really have their eyes on the Philippines. In the midst of the Spanish-American War, the U.S. engaged the Spanish fleet in the Philippines. After defeating the Spanish fleet, American ships first docked in the Philippines.
· just now. Report Abuse. The main goals of imperialism were to 1) secure natural resources (raw materials) to help with and sustain industrial growth for the parent country and 2) provide markets to sell the finished products made with the raw materials acquired. 