1 Prepare crostini with brie (or pesto, or ricotta, or tapenade) and slow roasted tomatoes. 2  Add the roasted tomatoes to a quiche along with other vegetables. 3  Serve on top of polenta for an elegant side or comforting lunch. I like to roast them alongside a few cloves of garlic, then store the tomatoes and soft garlic in a jar topped with olive oil in my fridge. Then out they come when you want a little something special on your salad, or to gussy up that grilled chicken.
Directions. Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Place tomatoes on a rimmed baking sheet, cut side up. Drizzle with oil, and sprinkle with thyme leaves; season with salt and pepper. Roast until tomatoes begin to collapse, brushing occasionally with pan juices, about 90 minutes. 
1 Sprinkle the tomato halves with salt, pepper and dried thyme. 2  Roast for 3 - 4 hours. 3  Drizzle the balsamic vinegar over the tomatoes, and allow to cool. 4  Pack into a container and lay the fresh thyme twigs across them. 1 Wash and dry the tomatoes, and slice them in half, horizontally. 2  Lay them, face up, on the parchment paper. 3  drizzle the oil over them, allowing oil to drizzle onto the parchment paper. 4 
1 drizzle the oil over them, allowing oil to drizzle onto the parchment paper. 2  Sprinkle the tomato halves with salt, pepper and dried thyme. 3  Roast for 3 - 4 hours. 4  Drizzle the balsamic vinegar over the tomatoes, and allow to cool. 5  Pack into a container and lay the fresh thyme twigs across them. 1 Wash and dry the tomatoes, and slice them in half, horizontally. 2  Lay them, face up, on the parchment paper. 3  drizzle the oil over them, allowing oil to drizzle onto the parchment paper. 4
Directions. Preheat oven to 200 degrees F. Cut the tomatoes in 1/2 and place them, cut-side down, on a baker's rack set in a roasting pan Drizzle the tomato halves with 3 tablespoons olive oil and roast for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, until the tomatoes are roasted to a dark red. The excess moisture will have evaporated, and the remaining tomatoes will have a delicious concentrated flavor and aroma. Cut the roasted tomato halves into quarters. Serve hot; toss with 3 tablespoons of olive oil and 2 tablespoons of vinegar, or the attached essences, and serve. Break the chiles apart. Remove the stems and seeds
Roasted Tomatoes in Olive Oil. Slow-Roasted Tomatoes recipe (see recipe above) Extra-virgin olive oil Fresh basil leaves Thyme sprigs. Allow the Slow-Roasted Tomatoes to cool. Clean and sterilize a 1-pint jar; set aside and let cool. Layer the tomatoes in a jar with fresh basil leaves and some sprigs of thyme. Optional: Some people like to remove the skins after roasting. I don't do this, but if you want to remove the skins, first let the tomatoes cool. Using your hand, slip off and discard skins. OPTIONAL IDEAS: (1) Sprinkle with sugar, fresh thyme, and salt.
How to Slow-Roast Tomatoes. Follow these simple steps to transform out-of-season tomatoes into an irresistible treat. Serve these flavorful tomatoes in pasta salad or paired with ricotta on crusty bread. Get the recipe for Slow-Roasted Plum Tomatoes With Garlic and Oregano. 
1 Roast for 3 - 4 hours. 2  Drizzle the balsamic vinegar over the tomatoes, and allow to cool. 3  Pack into a container and lay the fresh thyme twigs across them. 4  Pour all of the excess oli from the parchment paper, now essentially a tomato oil, onto the top and add about 1 tablespoon of additional olive oil. 1 Wash and dry the tomatoes, and slice them in half, horizontally. 2  Lay them, face up, on the parchment paper. 3  drizzle the oil over them, allowing oil to drizzle onto the parchment paper. 4  Sprinkle the tomato halves with salt, pepper and dried thyme.
1 Toss the roasted tomatoes in with any salad to make it extra special. 2  Add the roasted tomatoes to any pasta dish, whether with tomato sauce, pesto, ricotta, or goat cheese. 3  Make a tart with ricotta and slow roasted tomatoes layered on a pastry shell. I like to roast them alongside a few cloves of garlic, then store the tomatoes and soft garlic in a jar topped with olive oil in my fridge. Then out they come when you want a little something special on your salad, or to gussy up that grilled chicken.