(Source: website Zoo Aquarium Madrid; Zoos of the World by James Fisher, 1967; Zoo, a history of zoological gardens in the west by Baratay & Hardouin-Fugier, 2002; Wikipedia). History. The world's second surviving zoo, excluding the ancient bird collections in UK's St. James Park and Kew gardens, dates back to 1774, when King Charles III ordered the construction of a small menagerie in the current Cuesta de Moyano, part of the gardens of the Buen Retiro Palace.
Submit a correction. Madrid’s zoo, in the Casa de Campo, is a fairly standard European city zoo and is home to about 3000 animals. You can update your settings by clicking the Cookie Policy link at the bottom of the page.} DUPipeline_QISnippet_MetaDescription_Snippet_v1: {},{16|16|28|Madrid’s zoo, in the Casa de Campo, is a fairly standard European city zoo and is home to about 3000 animals.
A trip to the Spanish capital would be incomplete without a visit to the Madrid Zoo Aquarium; or Zoo de Madrid as it is called in Spanish. A short trip east in the Madrid subway from the center of the city will take you to a large park area known as Casa de Campo. Another interesting aspect about the Zoo in Madrid is that it features more than just exhibitions to observe the animals. The Spanish zoo promotes a program called Chat with the Animals which gives the public the opportunity to interact with the animals in various ways.
The Madrid zoo boasts over 5,000 animals of more than 600 species. However, the most famous is undoubtedly Chu-Lin, the first giant panda bear born in captivity in Europe in1982. The Madrid Zoo Aquarium acquired Chu-Lin's mother from China when King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sophia of Spain brought her back with them. Another interesting aspect about the Zoo in Madrid is that it features more than just exhibitions to observe the animals. The Spanish zoo promotes a program called Chat with the Animals which gives the public the opportunity to interact with the animals in various ways.
The first zoo in Madrid was opened in 1770 as the Casa de Fieras in Retiro Park, to exhibit animals from the American and Asian provinces, on grounds which still are part of the Parque del Buen Retiro. The new facilities of the Madrid Zoo Aquarium were constructed in 1972 and located in the Casa de Campo. Eagles over the people in Madrid Zoo Aquarium. The Madrid Zoo Aquarium is a 20-hectare (49-acre) zoo and aquarium located in the Casa de Campo in Madrid, Spain. The zoo is owned by the city, but is managed by the international entertainment operator Parques Reunidos
In 1995 Zoo Madrid became Zoo Aquarium Madrid with the addition of a new pyramid shaped building dedicated to marine species. The aquarium part of the Spanish zoo has also found ways to provide interactive experiences to visitors. Another interesting aspect about the Zoo in Madrid is that it features more than just exhibitions to observe the animals. The Spanish zoo promotes a program called Chat with the Animals which gives the public the opportunity to interact with the animals in various ways.
Madrid Zoo, officially called 'Zoo-Aquarium Madrid', is situated in the southern part of the park 'Casa de Campo' just a few stops with the metro and a ten minutes walk west from the city centre. A perfect spot for a zoo. History. The world's second surviving zoo, excluding the ancient bird collections in UK's St. James Park and Kew gardens, dates back to 1774, when King Charles III ordered the construction of a small menagerie in the current Cuesta de Moyano, part of the gardens of the Buen Retiro Palace.
The term zoological garden refers to zoology, the study of animals, a term deriving from the Greek zōon (ζῷον, animal) and logos (lógos, λoγος). λóγος study the abbreviation zoo was first used Of The London, zoological gardens which opened for scientific study in 1828 and to the public. in 1857 A petting zoo, also called petting farms or children's zoos, features a combination of domestic animals and wild species that are docile enough to touch and feed. To ensure the animals' health, the food is supplied by the zoo, either from vending machines or a kiosk nearby.