This makes them the second largest phylum of animals, having fewer species than only the arthropods. Mollusks have soft bodies that consist of three basic parts: a foot, a visceral mass and a mantle. Many species also have a protective shell made of chitin, proteins and calcium carbonate. By Laura Klappenbach. Mollusks (Mollusca) are a group of invertebrates that includes squid, octopuses, cuttlefish, nudibranchs, snails, slugs, limpets, sea hares, mussels, clams, oysters, scallops, as well as many less well-known animals. Scientists estimate that there are more than 100,000 species of mollusks alive today
Clam  is an informal term used to refer to any molluscans within Class Bivalvia. Remains first appeared in Cambrian age rocks 510 million years ago. They presently live in both freshwater and marine habitats, and range in adult size from nearly microscopic to the giant clam, which can weigh 200 kg (440 lb). 
PHYLUM MOLLUSCA. The Mollusca is the second largest animal phylum after the Arthropoda. Mollusks, which are familiar shallow marine and fresh water creatures, include clams, mussels, oysters, snails, slugs, octopus, and squid. They are an important source of food for people and for many other animals. 
Bivalve Shells. CLASS BIVALVIA. Members of this class are characterized by having a shell which consists of right and left halves; each shell is called a valve (not labeled). This group includes the marine and freshwater clam, mussels, and oysters. 
Kingdom to Subphylum. The highest category in the traditional Linnaean system of classification is the kingdom. At this level, organisms are distinguished on the basis of cellular organization and methods of nutrition. 
Bivalves: Phylum Mollusca, Class Bivalvia. Clams, mussels, oysters, and scallops are members to the class Bivalvia (or Pelecypodia). Bivalves have two shells, connected by a flexible ligament, which encase and shield the soft vulnerable parts of the creature. 
Clams Oysters and Scallops. 521,978 CONTRIBUTIONS. Robin Harris' writing has been published in scholastic publications, books, newspapers, anthologies and online. While writing is her first love, Robin is also passionate about everything that goes on in the kitchen, and enjoys the opportunity to combine the two. 
It’s hard to believe but there are some shellfish which have no outside shells. Squid and octopus are examples of shellfish which have no outside shells. Soft shell clams live in the intertidal zone, the wet area exposed between high and low tide. Depuration. As soft shell clams filter water for oxygen, other things found in the water like algae, sand and bacteria can get stuck on their gills. Most clams in Massachusetts live in water that is clean.
The giant clam (Tridacna gigas), known as pā’ua in Cook Islands Māori, is a clam that is the largest living bivalve mollusk. Tridacna gigas is one of the most endangered clam species. Antonio Pigafetta documented these in his journal as early as 1521. 