Synovitis is a common condition meaning inflammation of the synovial lining of a joint or tendon sheath (the tunnel the tendon runs through). Tendon sheath synovitis is referred to as tenosynovitis. 
Synovitis is the medical term for inflammation of the synovial membrane. This membrane lines joints which possess cavities, known as synovial joints. The condition is usually painful, particularly when the joint is moved. The joint usually swells due to synovial fluid collection. Synovitis may occur in association with arthritis as well as lupus, gout, and other conditions. Synovitis is more commonly found in rheumatoid arthritis than in other forms of arthritis, and can thus serve as a distinguishing factor, although it is also present in many joints affected with osteoarthritis
synovitis. [sin′əvī′tis]. an inflammatory condition of the synovial membrane of a joint as the result of an aseptic wound or a traumatic injury, such as a sprain or severe strain. The knee is most commonly affected. Fluid accumulates around the capsule; the joint is swollen, tender, and painful; and motion is restricted
Ankle Synovitis. (Also known as Post-Traumatic Ankle Synovitis). Ankle synovitis is a condition characterized by inflammation of the soft tissue lining the ankle joint capsule, known as the synovium, with subsequent ankle swelling, pain and stiffness. The joint capsule is lined with specialized tissue known as the synovium (or synovial membrane) which is responsible for secreting lubricating fluid (synovial fluid) into the ankle joint, therefore reducing friction during ankle movements. Following an ankle injury, swelling may accumulate within the ankle joint.
Synovitis is a condition that occurs when the synovium, a liner and lubrication of the knee joint becomes inflicted with inflammation. This unfortunate and uncomfortable medical condition can be caused by rheumatoid arthritis as well as injury or trauma. Sometimes though, the case is unknown in its entirety. 
share. The synovial membrane is the part of the body that lines the inside of certain joints. It lines the joint capsule in the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, hand, foot, and shoulder. When this membrane gets inflamed, it is called synovitis. Synovitis is often the result of repeated joint bleeds that are not treated early or correctly. With synovitis, the synovial membrane thickens and grows more blood vessels, causing even more bleeding into the joint. This picture shows a knee that is swollen from synovitis. 
In a way, it's a fancy term for arthritis, which means joint inflammation. But there is a difference between synovitis and arthritis. Synovitis describes prominent joint inflammation in which the most dramatic inflammation is of the synovium. This is a thin layer of cells that lines our joints. Some types of arthritis, such as osteoarthritis, cause little if any synovial inflammation. 
Ankle synovitis can be caused by prior injuries to the joint, such as sprains or fractures. These injuries may result in acute damage directly to the synovial membrane, or they could cause an imbalance or misalignment of the bones leading to a chronic condition. 
A synovial joint, also known as diarthrosis, is the most common and most movable type of joint in the body of a mammal. As with most other joints, synovial joints achieve movement at the point of contact of the articulating bones. 