Biradial symmetry is a combination of radial and bilateral symmetry, as in the Ctenophores. Here, the body components are arranged with similar parts on either side of a central axis, and each of the four sides of the body is identical to the opposite side but different from the adjacent side. Tetramerism is a variant of radial symmetry found in jellyfish, which have four canals in an otherwise radial body plan. Pentamerism, another variant of radial symmetry (also called pentaradial and pentagonal symmetry), means the organism is in five parts around a central axis, 72° apart.
The first type is radial symmetry. With this type of symmetry, the body plan is based around an axis. In other words, the body is oriented so that is radiates out from an imaginary line through the center of the organism. Symmetry Defined. In order to fully define bilateral symmetry, we need to first define symmetry. Symmetry has to do with the orientation of an organism based on a plane or around an axis. Considering the differing shapes and orientations of various organisms, scientists have come up with three basic types of symmetry.
bilateral symmetry the configuration of an irregularly shaped body (such as the human body or that of higher animals) that can be divided by a longitudinal plane into halves that are mirror images of each other. radial symmetry that in which the body parts are arranged regularly around a central axis.
Medical Definition of RADIAL SYMMETRY. : the condition of having similar parts regularly arranged around a central axis. — radially symmetrical adjective. See radial symmetry defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Generally, an object with 'rotational symmetry' also known in biological contexts as 'radial symmetry', is an object that looks the same after a certain amount of rotation. An object may have more than one rotational symmetry; for instance, if reflections or turning it over are not counted. 
radial symmetry, a form of symmetry in which body parts are arranged around a central axis, as found in animals such as jellyfish and sea urchins. radial symmetry that in which the body parts are arranged regularly around a central axis.
radial symmetry. n. 1. (Biology) a type of structure of an organism or part of an organism in which a vertical cut through the axis in any of two or more planes produces two halves that are mirror images of each other. Compare bilateral symmetry. 1. radial symmetry-the property of symmetry about an axis; the starfish illustrates radial symmetry. symmetricalness, symmetry, correspondence, balance - (mathematics) an attribute of a shape or relation; exact reflection of form on opposite sides of a dividing line or plane.
Another common type of symmetry is radial symmetry, in which an organism can be divided equally about a central point, much like a pie cut into equal parts. Examples. In the plant kingdom, it is common to see radial symmetry in flowers, though the rest of the plant may exhibit other symmetry, or no symmetry at all. Flower petals tend to extend from the central axis into a radial pattern, and fruits frequently have radial symmetry.
Share. By Jennifer Kennedy. Definition: Radial symmetry is the regular arrangement of body parts around a central axis. When an organism is radially symmetrical, you could cut from one side of the organism through the center, to the other side, anywhere on the organism, and this cut would produce two equal halves. Examples: Sea urchins have radial symmetry