When halogens combine or react with metals, they form ionic bonds. As a result of these reactions, these elements become anions, or negatively charged ions. Owing to their high reactivity, these are never found in a pure form in the nature. They must be extracted from their sources, using proper methods and techniques. When halogens react with hydrogen, they form binary compounds known as hydrogen halides. These compounds (hydrogen halides) are extremely strong acids, which make them a unique brand of elemental family. When these compounds are converted to an aqueous state, they are known as hydrohalic acids.
The halogens or halogen elements (/ˈhaelɵdʒɨn/) ˈhælɵdʒɨn are a group in the periodic table consisting of five chemically related: elements (Fluorine), f (Chlorine), cl (Bromine), br (Iodine), i and (Astatine). At the artificially created element (117) ununseptium may also be a. halogen Interhalogen compounds are in the form of XY n where X and Y are halogens and n is one, three, five, or seven. Interhalogen compounds contain at most two different halogens. Large interhalogens, such as ClF 3 can be produced by a reaction of a pure halogen with a smaller interhalogen such as ClF.
The halogens or halogen elements (/ˈhaelɵdʒɨn/) ˈhælɵdʒɨn are a group in the periodic table consisting of five chemically related: elements (Fluorine), f (Chlorine), cl (Bromine), br (Iodine), i and (Astatine). at Interhalogen compounds are in the form of XY n where X and Y are halogens and n is one, three, five, or seven. Interhalogen compounds contain at most two different halogens. Large interhalogens, such as ClF 3 can be produced by a reaction of a pure halogen with a smaller interhalogen such as ClF.
As a group, halogens exhibit highly variable physical properties. Halogens range from solid (I2) to liquid (Br2) to gaseous (F2 and Cl2) at room temperature. The chemical properties are more uniform. The halogens have very high electronegativities. Fluorine has the highest electronegativity of all elements.
The halogens are a group of elements on the periodic table. Here is a look at the location of these elements and their common properties: Location of the Halogens on the Periodic Table. The halogens are located in Group VIIA of the periodic table, and are a particular class of nonmetals. The halogen elements are fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, astatine, and ununseptium. Properties. These reactive nonmetals have seven valence electrons. As a group, halogens exhibit highly variable physical properties. Halogens range from solid (I 2) to liquid (Br 2) to gaseous (F 2 and Cl 2) at room temperature
The alkali metals, halogens and noble gases are three important groups in the periodic table. The alkali metals are soft, reactive metals. They react vigorously with water and become more reactive as you go down the group. The halogens are reactive non-metals. They become darker as you go down the group. Their reactivity decreases as you go down the group and their boiling points increase. A more reactive halogen will displace a less reactive halogen from solutions of its salts.
The halogens are five non-metallic elements found in group 17 of the periodic table. The term halogen means salt-former and compounds containing halogens are called salts. All halogens have 7 electrons in their outer shells, giving them an oxidation number of -1. 
This page explores the trends in some atomic and physical properties of the Group 7 elements (the halogens) - fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. 
They are found in all three states of existence. Here are some other physical properties of halogens that make them a very unique family of elements. Appearance Appearance wise fluorine exists as a pale yellow gas that is poisonous in nature, while chlorine is similarly poisonous but exists as a pale green colored gas. Halogens range from solid (I2) to liquid (Br2) to gaseous (F2 and Cl2) at room temperature. The chemical properties are more uniform. The halogens have very high electronegativities. Fluorine has the highest electronegativity of all elements.