Sometimes when you have a thyroid test done, the doctor will say you have normal TSH or thyroid. But you are dealing with symptoms of hypothyroidism. Try the test below. You can also try avoiding foods that can contribute to hypothyroidism symptoms. Thyroid activity is directly related to body temperature.
Therefore, if your basal body temperature is below normal, then all enzymes in every cell of your body will be working below par, which in turn can have a profound effect on how efficiently your cells-and hence your entire body – are able to function.
Take your temp! When you hear the phrase “Take your temperature”, you usually associate it with being sick and looking for a fever. But your temperature can also be one of many clues of your metabolic health! As a hypothyroid patient, taking your temperature can be an important aspect in three ways:
A normal axillary (armpit) body temperature for adults is between 36.5 and 36.7 degrees Celsius; in the Fahrenheit scale this is 97.7 to 98.06 degrees. If your body temperature falls below 36.5 degrees Celsius or below 97.7 degrees Fahrenheit, you should see your doctor for further tests on your thyroid.
QUESTION My doctor is using my Basal Body temperature as a guide to determine if I've met my optimum thyroid medication level. I take my temperature under my arm first thing upon waking for 3 days in a row and write it down.
Hence, if-despite adequate secretion of T4 by the thyroid gland-we’re not getting sufficient conversion of T4 to T3, or T3 is unable to activate cellular receptor sites, then the basal body temperature, or BBT will be found to be low – as will thyroid function.
How To Take Your Basal Body Temperature-BBT This BBT thyroid test is quite simple, and is to some extent standardized by being performed first thing in the morning, upon awakening, and before you become physically active.
If you suspect your thyroid gland is sluggish, here is a handy way to find out. More than 50 years ago, a doctor named Broda Barnes found that the basal (resting) body temperature is a good indicator of thyroid function.
Once you have recorded the 3 or more readings, work out the average temperature. Interpreting Your Basal Body Temperature Test Yet again, a genuinely normal body temperature in a healthy human being is 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit).
If your basal body temperature is outside of the normal range you should speak to your doctor about the full range of thyroid tests you need. See our book Your Thyroid Problems Solved for detailed information about thyroid tests and natural, effective treatment for thyroid conditions.