These are two different tests that measure CRP and each test measures a different range of CRP level in the blood for different purposes: 1  The standard CRP test measures markedly high levels of the protein to detect diseases that cause significant inflammation. 2  It measures CRP in the range from 10 to 1000 mg/L. 
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a marker of inflammation in the body. Therefore, its level in the blood increases if there is any inflammation in the body. C-reactive protein, along with other markers of inflammation (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, or ESR) are also sometimes referred to as acute phase reactants. 
A high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) test, which is more sensitive than a standard test, also can be used to evaluate your risk of developing coronary artery disease, a condition in which the arteries of your heart are narrowed. Coronary artery disease can eventually lead to a heart attack. Definition. The level of C-reactive protein (CRP), which can be measured in your blood, increases when there's inflammation in your body. Your doctor may check your C-reactive protein level treatment for infections or for other medical conditions
The C-reactive protein (CRP) test is used to find swelling and infection in your body. It does this by measuring the amount of CRP in your blood. CRP is a protein made by the liver and sent into the bloodstream. Blood levels may be higher when you have swelling (inflammation) or an infection. Because CRP levels often go up before you have symptoms of pain or fever and drop down as you recover, the CRP test is especially useful for tracking infections. Because C-reactive protein is part of the immune system, your levels of it rise whenever you have swelling in your body. In fact swelling can trigger a large jump in CRP. But the test doesn't show where the swelling is or what is causing it.
CRP tests for heart disease. It's thought that high hs-CRP levels in your blood are associated with narrowed coronary arteries. A CRP test can't tell your doctor where the inflammation is, though, so it's possible that a high hs-CRP level could mean there's inflammation somewhere other than your heart. 
Guide. A C-reactive protein (CRP) test is a blood test that measures the amount of a protein called C-reactive protein in your blood. C-reactive protein measures general levels of inflammation in your body. High levels of CRP are caused by infections and many long-term diseases. But a CRP test cannot show where the inflammation is located or what is causing it
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a blood test marker for inflammation in the body. CRP is produced in the liver and its level is measured by testing the blood. 
The C-reactive protein (CRP) test is used by a health practitioner to detect inflammation. 