Allopathic medicine and allopathy (from the Greek prefix ἄλλος, allos, állos, other + different the suffix, πάϑος, pathos) páthos suffering are terms coined in the early 19th Century By, samuel hahnemann the founder, of homeopathy as a synonym for. mainstream medicine In such circles, the expression allopathic medicine is still used to refer to the broad category of medical practice that is sometimes called Western medicine, biomedicine, evidence-based medicine, or modern medicine (see the article on scientific medicine). Contents.
The generally uncomplaining acceptance of [the term] allopathic medicine by today's physicians is an indication of both a lack of awareness of the term's historical use and the recent thawing of relations between irregulars and allopaths. In such circles, the expression allopathic medicine is still used to refer to the broad category of medical practice that is sometimes called Western medicine, biomedicine, evidence-based medicine, or modern medicine (see the article on scientific medicine). Contents.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. An allopathic physician or medical doctor (MD) practices a biologically based approach to treating disease and injury. Allopathic medicine is a term that refers to conventional medical practice, also called Western or modern medicine. 
Allopathic medicine is an expression commonly used by homeopaths and proponents of other forms of alternative medicine to refer to mainstream medical use of pharmacologically active agents or physical interventions to treat or suppress symptoms or pathophysiologic processes of diseases or conditions. In such circles, the expression allopathic medicine is still used to refer to the broad category of medical practice that is sometimes called Western medicine, biomedicine, evidence-based medicine, or modern medicine (see the article on scientific medicine). Contents.
Allopathic vs Osteopathic Physician. There are two primary types of medical practice. One is called osteopathy and the other is allopathy. Osteopathic physicians are also known as DOs while Allopathic physicians are regarded as MDs. The former (osteopathic doctors) receive trainings on manual medicine. The discipline itself has been developed around 1874 by Dr. Still
Two Kinds of Physicians: Allopathic and Osteopathic. There are two kinds of practicing physicians in the United States: allopathic physicians (MD's) and osteopathic physicians (DO's). Both are fully licensed physicians, trained in diagnosing and treating illnesses and disorders, and in providing preventive care. However, osteopathic physicians are trained in some special areas in which allopathic physicians do not receive training. Students at osteopathic medical colleges receive training in Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment (OMT) that MD's do not receive.
Medical Definition of ALLOPATHY. 1. : a system of medical practice that aims to combat disease by use of remedies (as drugs or surgery) producing effects different from or incompatible with those produced by the disease being treated—compare homeopathy. 2. : a system of medical practice making use of all measures that have proved of value in treatment of disease.
There are two basic types of medical training: allopathic and osteopathic. The traditional medical degree, the MD, requires training in allopathic medicine. Osteopathic medical schools award the DO degree. Both attend medical school and receive substantial training (4 years, not including residency). The average GPA and MCAT scores for incoming students are slightly lower in osteopathic programs, but the difference is rapidly falling. The average age of entering osteopathic students is about 26 years (vs. allopathic medical school's 24).
Definition of ALLOPATHIC. : relating to or being a system of medicine that aims to combat disease by using remedies (as drugs or surgery) which produce effects that are different from or incompatible with those of the disease being treated. ADVERTISEMENT.