Taking vitamins to improve the appearance of hair, skin and nails has been effective for individuals who lack certain vitamins in their daily diets. There are specific vitamins that aid in the processes by which hair, skin and nails grow. Beta-carotene, vitamin B complex, vitamin C, vitamin E, magnesium, sulfur and zinc are all vital for growing healthy hair, skin and nails, according to the Vitamins and Nutrition Center. A multivitamin will contain most if not all of these vitamins.
The smartest way to nourish your hair, skin and nails is to follow a diet full of vitamins E, A, C and B, minerals like zinc and iron, and more. Click through the slideshow above for tips on getting your daily dose of the vitamins that'll keep your hair, skin and nails strong and lustrous. More from Elizabeth Street: Let's talk prenatal vitamins, for starters. You've probably heard the rumors that taking these supplements, even when you're not pregnant or trying to conceive, can do wonders for your mane, make your skin glow and strengthen your nails. Perhaps, thinking back to how great your pregnancy hair looked, you've invested in a bottle.
# 5. Yes Hair growth vitamins do work...I used to take Biotin, Silica, MSM, hair growth vitamin, and flaxseed oil pills. When I was taking these I used to get 1-1 1/2 inch of new growth each month.. I stopped taking them because I hate to swallow pills and I was taking a ton of pills each day. I can add this: NOW brand Derma Vits Hair, Skin & Nail formula did nothing for me (I used all 90 capsules). The formula has MSM, silica, B vitamins & amino acids. I also do omega 3 supplements and a multi vitamin daily.
Yes as long as...: A good skin hair and nails vitamin will have many of the same vitamins in a good prenatal. But it is important that the total amount of preformed Vit A totals less than 10.000 iu a day. But it is fine to take as much beta carotene as you wish. Get help from a doctor now ›. Hair skin & nails: Many nutrients are needed for healthy hair, skin and nails. While biotin may help with those who are deficient, biotin deficiency is rare.
“These vitamins do promote healthy hair and nails,” Purnama says. “There are few of our clients using Biotin (a lot of these vitamin products contain biotin, especially Recharging Complex by Nioxin), Perfectil and simple vitamin E. It does strengthen your nails and [creates] stronger hair follicle.”. 
Facts. The processes by which hair, skin and nails grow require most of the same vitamins and minerals. Beta-carotene, vitamin B complex, vitamin C, vitamin E, magnesium, sulfur and zinc are all vital for growing healthy hair, skin and nails, according to the Vitamins and Nutrition Center. A multivitamin will contain most if not all of these vitamins.
Nature Made Hair, Skin and Nails products combine key nutrients to help support healthy hair, skin and nails. Offered in various forms, such as VitaMelts ™ and softgels, you can choose a product that suits your needs. Biotin may help support healthy hair, skin and nails ‡ and vitamin C helps support collagen synthesis. † Nature Made Hair, Skin & Nails is specially formulated to include 5 key nutrients (biotin, vitamin C, copper, zinc and beta carotene) in one convenient softgel. Beta carotene, a precursor to vitamin A, and zinc help support healthy skin and copper is essential for collagen synthesi
Hair, skin and nails vitamins generally contain biotin along with a mulitivitamin and other nutrients that support health. There may be multiple products named Hair Skin and Nails but one of the better ones is Nature's Bounty Optimal Solutions. ...Read more. Get help from a doctor now ›. Hair skin & nails: Many nutrients are needed for healthy hair, skin and nails. While biotin may help with those who are deficient, biotin deficiency is rare.