Actinobacillus pleuropneumonia (APP) and Actinobacillus suis (AS) are bacterial infections of the lungs that cause sudden death in all ages of swine. Both organisms can cause numerous deaths at a single visit. With APP, it is common to see pigs that have recently died with blood coming from the nose. In general, sudden death in finishing pigs can be divided into enteric (gut) conditions, respiratory (lung) infections and individual pig events. Enteric conditions would include ileitis, hemorrhagic bowel syndrome (HBS), twisted gut and stomach ulcers.
Advertisement. There are a variety of conditions that cause sudden death in finishing pigs. In general, sudden death in finishing pigs can be divided into enteric (gut) conditions, respiratory (lung) infections and individual pig events. Enteric conditions would include ileitis, hemorrhagic bowel syndrome (HBS), twisted gut and stomach ulcers.
Salmonellosis can occur at any age but is most common in growing pigs over eight weeks of age. Severe S. choleraesuis infection occurs typically at around 12 to 14 week s. Clinical signs Acute septicaemia and pneumonia result in fever, inappetence, respiratory distress and depression. S. choleraesuis is the specific host-adapted pig serovar and can cause major generalised disease. S. typhimurium and S. derby are more likely to cause a milder disease the main sign of which is usually diarrhoea.
Because the role of maternal immunity in S. suis infections is unknown and because we can only estimate when colonization by the virulent strain occurs, 10 we decided to be conservative and vaccinate the piglets IP at 5 days of age, with revaccination at weaning and 10 days later. Pigs with signs of meningitis and/or arthritis were placed in the sick pen and injected with ampicillin (6-8 mg per kg) or ceftiofur sodium (3-5 mg per kg). Morbidity and mortality rate was monitored from the beginning of the trial (at weaning) until the pigs left the nursery (at 9 weeks of age).
Note: This page contains background information about swine influenza infections in pigs. For information about 2009 H1N1 influenza (initially referred to as “swine flu” when it was first detected), visit the archived CDC 2009 H1N1 Flu website. For information about seasonal influenza, visit the CDC seasonal flu website.
In some countries, such as Australia, pigs are slaughtered at a younger age. This is because the two natural substances that cause boar taint – androstenone and skatole – only start to accumulate in the fat of male pigs when they sexually mature. Boar taint is the offensive odour or taste that can be evident during the cooking or eating of pork or pork products derived from non-castrated male pigs once they reach puberty.
M eningitis caused by Streptococcus suis is becoming a more severe and uncontrollable problem in the United States swine industry. Nursery pigs are the most commonly affected, but outbreaks in finishing pigs have also been reported. 1 Mortality rates of 4%-5% are common, and can increase to 15%. It is not clear why S. suis infections are increasing in prevalence, but it could be associated with: 1  2. 2  herds that have recently enlarged their sow inventory, and. 3  concurrent infections that may be present in the herd, such as porcine respiratory and reproductive virus (PRRSV). Pigs with signs of meningitis and/or arthritis were placed in the sick pen and injected with ampicillin (6-8 mg per kg) or ceftiofur sodium (3-5 mg per kg). Morbidity and mortality rate was monitored from the beginning of the trial (at weaning) until the pigs left the nursery (at 9 weeks of age).
Pigs are completely weaned by about 3 months of age, although they have been observed eating solid food (e.g., corn) at as young as 2 weeks of age. About 80% of the yearling females remain with the sounder and the rest disperse. Young males disperse from the sounder at about 16 to 18 months of age. 
Always keep a pig growing, even if it’s a 1/4 pound per day. The reason for this is that we need pigs fresh and full when we show and we also need them to look youthful. It is hard to do this when we hold for a very long period of time. 
Salmonellosis can occur at any age but is most common in growing pigs over eight weeks of age. Severe S. choleraesuis infection occurs typically at around 12 to 14 weeks. Clinical signs Acute septicaemia and pneumonia result in fever, inappetence, respiratory distress and depression. S. choleraesuis is the specific host-adapted pig serovar and can cause major generalised disease. S. typhimurium and S. derby are more likely to cause a milder disease the main sign of which is usually diarrhoea.