The most common symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease include abdominal pain, vaginal discharge, and fever. More severe symptoms may include painful sexual intercourse, painful urination, fatigue, and nausea with or without vomiting. Antibiotic therapy is the treatment for PID and can prevent serious complications. Left untreated, pelvic inflammatory disease can lead to potentially life-threatening complications.
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of the female reproductive organs, including the uterine lining, ovaries, and fallopian tubes. It may produce severe symptoms, including pain and reproductive dysfunction. Pelvic inflammatory disease is a common disease that affects nearly one million women each year. More severe symptoms may include painful sexual intercourse, painful urination, fatigue, and nausea with or without vomiting. Antibiotic therapy is the treatment for PID and can prevent serious complications. Left untreated, pelvic inflammatory disease can lead to potentially life-threatening
When symptoms are present, the most common symptoms of PID are. 1  Lower abdominal pain. 2  Mild pelvic pain. 3  Increased vaginal discharge. 4  Irregular menstrual bleeding. 5  Pain with intercourse. 6  Painful and frequent urination. 7  Abdominal tenderness. 8  Pelvic organ tenderness. 9  Uterine tenderness (along with endometriosis). 
The symptoms of PID can vary, but may include the following: 1  Dull pain or tenderness in the stomach or lower abdominal area, or pain in the right upper abdomen. 2  Abnormal vaginal discharge that is yellow or green in color or that has an unusual odor. 3  Painful urination. 4  Chills or high fever. 5  Nausea and vomiting. PID occurs when the disease-causing organisms travel from the cervix to the upper genital tract. Untreated gonorrhea and chlamydia cause about 90% of all cases of PID. Other causes include abortion, childbirth, and pelvic procedures.
Symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease infection can vary among individuals. Symptoms can run the gamut from none to severe. Symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease may include lower abdominal pain, vaginal discharge with a foul odor, pain with sexual intercourse, vomiting, and fever. Pelvic Inflammatory Disease: NWHIC (Excerpt). The major symptoms of PID are lower abdominal pain and abnormal vaginal discharge. Other symptoms such as fever, pain in the right upper abdomen, painful intercourse, and irregular menstrual bleeding can occur as well.
1 Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is an infection of a woman's pelvic organs including the uterus (womb), Fallopian tubes (tubes), ovaries, and cervix. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease develops as the result of spread of a sexually transmitted disease. 1 Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 2  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse. 3  Pelvic inflammatory disease is treated with antibiotics
1 Young, sexually active women with multiple sex partners are at greatest risk for pelvic inflammatory disease. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 3  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse. 1 Pelvic inflammatory disease many not produce any symptoms. 2  In other cases it can cause fever, abdominal or pelvic pain, vaginal discharge, painful urination, or painful sexual intercourse. 3  Pelvic inflammatory disease is treated with antibiotics