Pulse oximetry is a procedure used to measure the oxygen level (or oxygen saturation) in the blood. It is considered to be a noninvasive, painless, general indicator of oxygen delivery to the peripheral tissues (such as the finger, earlobe, or nose). 
oximetry. measurement of the oxygen content of arterial blood. pulse oximetry. use of a spectrophotoelectric instrument applied to the skin which measures pulse rate and the percentage of oxygenated and reduced hemoglobin. oximetry performed noninvasively, usually on the finger or ear lobe, in which the small increase in absorption of light during the systolic pulse is used to calculate oxygen saturation. Oxygen saturation measurement, SaO Critical care
Medical Definition of PULSE OXIMETER. : a device that measures the oxygen saturation of arterial blood in a subject by utilizing a sensor attached typically to a finger, toe, or ear to determine the percentage of oxyhemoglobin in blood pulsating through a network of capillaries and that typically sounds an alarm if the blood saturation becomes .... : a device that measures the oxygen saturation of arterial blood in a subject by utilizing a sensor attached typically to a finger, toe, or ear to determine the percentage of oxyhemoglobin in blood pulsating through a network of capillaries.
finger oximeter a pulse oximeter whose sensor is attached to a finger, so that the oxygenation of blood flowing through the finger can be determined. See illustration. Finger oximeter. Pulse oximetry transducer properly placed on a finger. Fold the Oxisensor over the end of the digit. Align the other end of the sensor so that the two alignment marks are directly opposite each other. Press the sensor into the skin. Wrap the adhesive flaps around the digit.
Pulse oximetry is a non-invasive method for monitoring a person's O 2 saturation. In its most common (transmissive) application mode, a sensor device is placed on a thin part of the patient's body, usually a fingertip or earlobe, or in the case of an infant, across a foot. Reflectance pulse oximetry may be used as an alternative to transmissive pulse oximetery described above. This method does not require a thin section of the person's body and is therefore well suited to more universal application such as the feet, forehead and chest, but it also has some limitations.
measurement of oxygen saturation of the blood using an oximeter. pulse oximetry a noninvasive method of indicating the arterial oxygen saturation of functional hemoglobin, using a pulse oximeter. oximetry performed noninvasively, usually on the finger or ear lobe, in which the small increase in absorption of light during the systolic pulse is used to calculate oxygen saturation. Oxygen saturation measurement, SaO Critical care
Definition of PULSE OXIMETER. : a device that measures the oxygen saturation of arterial blood in a subject by utilizing a sensor attached typically to a finger, toe, or ear to determine the percentage of oxyhemoglobin in blood pulsating through a network of capillaries. ADVERTISEMENT. noun
pulse oximetry. Definitions: 1. oximetry performed noninvasively, usually on the finger or ear lobe, in which the small increase in absorption of light during the systolic pulse is used to calculate oxygen saturation. The definition information for pulse oximetry is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.