1 Low income taxpayers can request a lower fee of $43. 2  Fill out Form 9465, Installment Agreement Request. 3  Or use the Online Payment Agreement Application on the IRS Web site to set up a payment plan. 4  Choose a day of the month you want to make your payments. 1 Choose a day of the month you want to make your payments. 2  You must make your payment by the same day each and every month. 3  You can choose any day you want between the 1st and 28th of the month. 4  Choose your monthly payment amount.
If your C corporation expects to owe $500 or more in taxes, the IRS mandates that you, too, make estimated tax payments. You can set up your deduction through your bank or use the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s electronic payment program. Having your quarterly estimated tax payments automatically deducted from your account can save you from an Internal Revenue Service tax underpayment penalty. This penalty applies if you owe $1,000 or more in taxes and file as a sole proprietor, a self-employed individual, a partner or an S corporation shareholder.
1 First, you must have filed all of the required tax returns. 2  If you didn’t file a return for a tax year when you should have, the IRS will not set up a payment plan for you. 3  Second, you should examine your financial situation to determine the largest monthly payment you can make. If using an installment agreement to set up a payment plan still makes the most sense for your situation, there are a few things you should know before you submit your application: 1  First, you must have filed all of the required tax returns.
Download article as a PDF. If you can’t pay your tax bill on time, it’s possible to apply for what is known as an “ installment agreement ” with the IRS. If the IRS grants the application, the agency will establish a payment plan so you can make monthly installment payments to pay off your back taxes. If using an installment agreement to set up a payment plan still makes the most sense for your situation, there are a few things you should know before you submit your application: 1  First, you must have filed all of the required tax returns.
1 Copies of your tax returns. 2  A good idea of how much you can afford to pay each month. 3  Your checkbook or a voided check if you are setting up automatic withdrawals. 4  Register with EFTPS.gov if you want to use the IRS's bill pay system. 1 Choose a day of the month you want to make your payments. 2  You must make your payment by the same day each and every month. 3  You can choose any day you want between the 1st and 28th of the month. 4  Choose your monthly payment amount.
The Electronic Federal Tax Payment System® tax payment service is provided free by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. After you've enrolled and received your credentials, you can pay any tax due to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) using this system. 
Here's How: 1  Find out how much you owe in unpaid taxes. 2  Be aware that the IRS charges an user fee to set up a payment plan: $52 for direct debit installment agreements, $120 for new installment agreements without direct debit, or $50 for restructuring or for reinstating a defaulted installment agreement. 3  Fill out Form 9465, Installment Agreement ... 1 Choose a day of the month you want to make your payments. 2  You must make your payment by the same day each and every month. 3  You can choose any day you want between the 1st and 28th of the month. 4  Choose your monthly payment amount.
The EFTPS system is an easy way to pay your federal taxes for individuals as well as businesses. You can make ALL of your federal tax payments including federal tax deposits (FTDs), installment agreement, and estimated tax payments using EFTPS. 
If you're financially unable to pay your tax debt immediately, you can make monthly payments through an installment agreement. As long as you pay your tax debt in full, you can reduce or eliminate your payment of penalties or interest, and avoid the fee associated with setting up the agreement. 