Irn-Bru is manufactured in five factories in Russia, and manufactured under licence in Canada, the United States, and since May 2008 in Norway. Bru and other Barr products are exported to Spain, the Netherlands, Germany, Gibraltar, Greece and Cyprus, as well as parts of Africa and Asia. Irn-Bru and Diet Irn-Bru have been formulated since 2002 by A.G. Barr plc to meet the regulations for food colouring of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Ponceau 4R, used in the UK formulation, is prohibited by the FDA.
Irn-Bru's advertising slogans used to be 'Scotland's other National Drink', referring to whisky, and 'Made in Scotland from girders ', a reference to the rusty colour of the drink; though the closest one can come to substantiating this claim is the 0.002% ammonium ferric citrate listed in the ingredients. Irn-Bru and Diet Irn-Bru have been formulated since 2002 by A.G. Barr plc to meet the regulations for food colouring of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Ponceau 4R, used in the UK formulation, is prohibited by the FDA.
Barr has a long-established gimmick associating Irn-Bru with Scottishness, stemming from the claim of it being Scotland's most popular soft drink. A tagline, Made in Scotland from girders, was used for several years from the 1980s, usually featuring Irn-Bru drinkers becoming unusually strong, durable or magnetic. Irn-Bru and Diet Irn-Bru have been formulated since 2002 by A.G. Barr plc to meet the regulations for food colouring of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Ponceau 4R, used in the UK formulation, is prohibited by the FDA.
By Cara Sulieman. SCOTLAND’S best-kept secret has been revealed – Irn Bru really is made from girders. The keep of the recipe, Robin Barr, has let it slip that there is 0.002 per cent of ammonium ferric citrate (AFC) in the national drink. And ferric means iron – even if it is tiny quantities of the metal. 
Bru dunnit: Irn-Bru sales have soared in England. It was famously claimed that it was made in Scotland from girders – but Irn-Bru's sales are soaring after production of the drink started in England. 
An indescribable brand with a phenomenal taste. Launched in 1901 in Scotland, IRN-BRU is a carbonated soft drink made to an original secret recipe, which from 1901 has contained 32 flavours. IRN-BRU's unique combination of flavours delivers the brands indescribable and phenomenal taste. 
History of Irn-Bru   It appears the inventor of Irn-Bru was Robert Barr, founder of the A.G. Barr soft drink company. Irn-Bru was first produced in 1901 by A.G. Bar … r in Falkirk, Scotland under the name of Strachen's Brew. The name was changed to Irn-Bru in 1946 when the laws in Scotland changed and the carbonated soft drink, which was not brewed at all, could no longer contain the word brew in its name. Irn-Bru is a soft drink originating in Scotland and produced by A. G. Barr. Irn-Bru is bright orange and has a unique flavour.
For years, its slogan was Barr's Irn-Bru: made in Scotland from girders. But now the beloved Scottish fizzy drink's catchphrase is wrong in two ways: first, the closest it gets to girders is 0.002 per cent of ammonium ferric citrate listed in its ingredients. And second, the last member of the Barr family, who have made Irn-Bru for more than 130 years, is to step down. Robin Barr, whose great-grandfather set up the family business in 1875, said he was retiring as chairman of AG Barr in May, after 31 years of running the company. In fact its slogans, made in Scotland from girders, and Scotland's other drink, referring to whisky, gave it a resonance that extended way beyond Scotland's borders. Other ads involved a man singing a song about his girlfriend who liked Irn-Bru and was therefore perceived to be more macho than he was.
History of Irn-Bru   It appears the inventor of Irn-Bru was Robert Barr, founder of the A.G. Barr soft drink company. Irn-Bru was first produced in 1901 by A.G. Bar … r in Falkirk, Scotland under the name of Strachen's Brew. The name was changed to Irn-Bru in 1946 when the laws in Scotland changed and the carbonated soft drink, which was not brewed at all, could no longer contain the word brew in its name. Irn-Bru is a soft drink originating in Scotland and produced by A. G. Barr. Irn-Bru is bright orange and has a unique flavour. It is popular in its native Scotland where it is arguably more popular than Coca-Cola