Faber was born on May 14, 1979, in Isla Vista, California, to Theo and Suzanne Faber, and grew up in Lincoln, California. He is of Dutch descent on his father's side, and Italian, English, and Irish on his mother's side. In Pulver's WEC debut, he submitted Cub Swanson in the first round of their match setting up a title match between Pulver and Faber. Pulver and Faber both commented in their post-fight interviews that they wanted to fight each other, and the match was signed for June 1, 2008 at WEC 34: Faber vs. Pulver.
Urijah Faber. Popular mixed martial artist Urijah Faber made a lot of cash thanks to his career in this dangerous sport. He’s the winner of WEC Featherweight Championship from 2006. He was able to hold that title over 2 years straight. Urijah Faber’s net worth is approximately $8 million. That’s surely a nice sum to enjoy! Check out also net worth of Conor McGregor, Ronda Rousey, and Jon Jones. Although he holds Bachelor’s degree in Human Development from University of California at Davis, this wasn’t exactly a relevant to his career.
In 2006 Faber defeated Cole Escovedo to win the WEC Featherweight Championship and held the title for more than two years. He was a coach on The Ultimate Fighter: Live against Dominick Cruz. Faber founded Team Alpha Male in 2004 and the team trains out of Sacramento, California. He has been involved with several clothing lines and been endorsed by K-Swiss. His book The Laws of the Ring was published in 2012. He is also the co-founder of Grace Project.
Urijah Faber was born on 14 May 1979 in California. He is an American mixed martial artist who is currently fighting in the bantamweight division of Ultimate Fighting Championship. He is also a brown belt in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. Urijah Faber Salary :$200,000. Urijah Faber Neet worth :$4,000,000. He is no 1 UFC bantamweight division and no 15 for pound for pound. He made his debut in MMA in 2003 as a part of Gladiator Challenge Promotions before coming to UFC he fought many fights in World Extreme Cage fighting (WEC) where he won the WEC feather weight championship. Faber lost the fight Vis knockout. He had the most successful title defenses in WEC Featherweight history with five successful defenses. He fought 37 MMA fights, won 30 and lost 7 fights. Out of 30 victories he won 17 by submission. Faber is expected to face Alex Caceres in his next fight at UFC 175
Fighters Age: 32 Years Old. ——————————————————————————————————————————————————-. Urijah Faber Biography: Career in MMA – UFC: Awards – Honours : Urijah Faber the awesome fighter to see in 2014, he is back in action an hopeful to show some great performances. His first fight will take place with Barao. From 37 fights he has won 31 fights and lost 6 fights. He is hungry for more lets see how he take down the opponents this year. 
Urijah Faber net worth: Urijah Faber is an American mixed martial artist who has a net worth of $8 million dollars. Uriah Cristopher Faber was born in Isla Vista, California in May 1979. He graduated from the University of California at Davis with a degree in Human Development. Faber founded Team Alpha Male in 2004 and the team trains out of Sacramento, California. He has been involved with several clothing lines and been endorsed by K-Swiss. His book The Laws of the Ring was published in 2012. He is also the co-founder of Grace Project.
On January 25, 2009 at WEC 38 Faber fought Jens Pulver in a rematch, with Faber winning by guillotine choke submission at 1:34 of the first round. Post-fight, Faber addressed WEC Featherweight Champion Mike Brown, who was seated at ringside and announced he wanted a shot at regaining his title. In Pulver's WEC debut, he submitted Cub Swanson in the first round of their match setting up a title match between Pulver and Faber. Pulver and Faber both commented in their post-fight interviews that they wanted to fight each other, and the match was signed for June 1, 2008 at WEC 34: Faber vs. Pulver.
About Urijah Faber. With an estimated net worth $850 thousand, Urijah Faber is a professional mixed martial artist who currently fights for the bantamweight category of the Ultimate Fighting Championships. On March 17, 2006, Faber won the WEC featherweight championship. He held the title for two years before losing it to Mike Brown in November 2008 at WEC 36. In August 2012, he was named by Sherdog as the third bantamweight in the world. Currently training under Fabio “Pateta” Prado, Urijah Faber is a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu brown belter.