$19.75 per guest. Most caterers use a price-per-person or price-per-platter system, but unfortunately, once you print a fixed price on your menu, you can’t go back on it. By far the most financially safe way to price menu items is custom pricing.
1 So for example, a party of 200 would probably cost $300 to $550 for the candy alone. 2  This will not include the decorations. 3  With decorations, plan on spending an average of $2 to $5 per person for a candy buffet. 4  This average would be for average candy and simpl
Menu prices range from $10 to $25 per person, depending on your selections and the number of guests. For businesses, the price includes disposable platters, garnishes for platters, set-up, and paper goods). China, glassware, flatware, and linens are available to rent.
A traditional buffet will need one service person per 15 to 22 guests, for as few as 4 hours, depending on the menu and location. For hors d'oeuvres stations you may need only one server per 30 guests. For weddings or extended events, the times may be longer.
1 A cocktail hour and sit-down dinner at a fancy hotel, country club or resort with an in-house caterer can cost $125 to $350 or more per person, including service and gratuity.
1 The average wedding caterer cost, including food and food service, drinks and drink service and cake and cake cutting fees is $12,790, according to The Bridal Association of America, which treats these as three separate categories. 2  The average number of guests is 150, so it works out to about $85 per person.
Or from a different perspective, (Sales Price per Person)x(desired Food Cost %)=(Food Cost per Person) if you want to figure out what you can offer for what the market will bear. Then you can check your projections against reality by (Buffet Revenue)/(Food Cost of eaten and wasted)=(Actual Food Cost %).
1 With 16 ounces in a pound, you should have a pound of candy for every 4 or 5 guests. 2  So for example, a party of 200 would probably cost $300 to $550 for the candy alone. 3  This will not include the decorations. 4  With decorations, plan on spending an average of $2 to $5 per person for a candy buffet.