However, since the Mandan language has been in contact with Hidatsa and Crow for many years, the exact relationship between Mandan and other Siouan languages (including Hidatsa and Crow) has been obscured and is currently undetermined.
Mandan Indian Tribe. An overview of the Mandan people, their language and history. Mandan Language Resources. Mandan Language Resources. Mandan language samples, articles, and indexed links. Mandan Culture and History Directory. Mandan Culture and History Directory. Related links about the Mandan tribe past and present. Mandan Indian Words. Mandan Indian Words. Mandan Indian vocabulary lists.
Their native Mandan language is still spoken today by only one elder. Hidatsa, Mandan, and Arikara speakers cannot understand each other's languages, so the three languages have been declining since the tribes merged. However, some Mandan people are working to keep their language alive. If you'd like to know an easy Mandan word, mihapmak (pronounced mee-hop-mock) is a friendly greeting.
Interior of the Hut of the Mandan Chief. With their Hidatsa friends and neighbors, the Mandan Indians lay at the center of trade along the Upper Missouri River, inhabiting what is now central North Dakota. At the time of Lewis and Clarks arrival, they lived in two villages, Matootonha and Rooptahee*.
The Adena used the language which Ulm created callled Ulm language of the Adena's,the same with the Hopewell.Ulm language is used in the continental United States(Ulm) where the Adena and Hopewell are.
An overview of the Mandan people, their language and history. Mandan Language Resources. Mandan Language Resources. Mandan language samples, articles, and indexed links. Mandan Culture and History Directory. Mandan Culture and History Directory. Related links about the Mandan tribe past and present. Mandan Indian Words. Mandan Indian Words. Mandan Indian vocabulary lists.
By 2009, there was just one fluent speaker of Mandan, Dr. Edwin Benson (born 1931). Dr. Benson and others are teaching in local school programs to encourage the use of the language. Mandan is taught at Fort Berthold Community College, along with the Hidatsa and Arikara languages.