Waynesville, Ohio. Waynesville is looking forward to bringing you some of the most unique finds in the country. Visit sixty shops, restaurants and overnight stay facilities on Main Street, High Street, Miami Street and Scioto Square. Shop, Dine, Explore. A visit to Waynesville Ohio is like a step back in time to “small town USA” and a business district filled with ‘Mom & Pop’ shops. The town is very walkable and you can explore over 60 shops and restaurants within a 5 block area
Welcome to the Waynesville Area Chamber of Commerce! The Waynesville Area Chamber of Commerce is an organization of people interested in working together to make our community a better place to live, work and play. 
Waynesville is a village in Wayne Township, Warren County, Ohio, United States. The population was 2,834 at the 2010 census. It is named for General Mad Anthony Wayne. The village, located at the crossroads of U.S. Route 42 and State Route 73, is known for its antique stores and its annual sauerkraut festival. Caesar Creek State Park is located 5 miles (8.0 km) east of the village. Waynesville is served by the Mary L. Cook Public Library.
Waynesville. Founded before Ohio even became a state, a trip to Waynesville is like stepping back in time. Waynesville has earned an unsurpassed reputation for its variety of antique shops and unique treasures. Waynesville also offers visitors a variety of year-long adventures. From its antique shows and its ghostly walking tours offered by the Museum at the Friends Home, to its annual hosting of the Ohio Sauerkraut Festival, one visit simply isn't enough to experience all this charming community has to offer.
Waynesville is rumored to be Ohio's most haunted town and we sure do have stories to prove it! Take a ghost tour or make a whole evening of it by enjoying the ghost & goblet dinner and ghost tour. 
Waynesville, Ohio is located in Warren County. Waynesville is a suburban community with a population of 2,928. The median household income is $49,576. In Waynesville, 51% of residents are married, and families with children reside in 35% of the households. The median age of homes in Waynesville, OH is 30 years, with 67% of those homes owned, 28% rented, and 5% not occupied. In the previous year, 30 Waynesville properties were sold.
Half the population of Waynesville commutes 23 minutes or less to work, with 57% of residents holding white collar jobs and 43% residents holding blue collar jobs. The median age of homes in Waynesville, OH is 30 years, with 67% of those homes owned, 28% rented, and 5% not occupied. In the previous year, 30 Waynesville properties were sold. The median sale price of a home in Waynesville in the previous year was $124,404
Get the latest news, sports, photos and videos about the Waynesville, Ohio area. 
Village of Waynesville’s Mayor, David Stubbs, has called a Special Council Meeting on Thursday October 15th, 2015 at 7 PM at the Waynesville Government Center, 1400 Lytle Road. The public is welcome to attend. The purpose for this meeting is to discuss the topic of the sewer plant transfer and related issues. 