Aneisokonia is a condition where an excessive difference in prescription between the eyes causes a significant difference in magnification of images seen between the eyes. When this magnification difference becomes excessive the effect can cause disorientation, eyestrain, headache, and dizziness and balance disorders. Treatment is with contact lenses, or special magnification size matched lenses called isokonic lenses. Normally the eyes work in perfect synchrony. There are a variety of visual dysfunctions that can cause, or associate with dizziness and balance problems. Sometimes these are purely visual problems, and sometimes they are caused from other disorders such as stroke, head injury, vestibular dysfunction, deconditioning, and decompensation.
Dizziness & Monovision Toric Lens Implants. Question: I have two toric lens implants for monovision-one set for distance and the other set for close vision but I still wear glasses for intermediate vision. I am very dizzy and have balance problems. Answer: Monovision correction with lens implants can be a very good option for many patients to help with correction of both distance and near vision.
Some patients are simply unable to tolerate the difference in the correction between the eyes as we say that they have a low “tolerance to defocus.” This may very well be a cause of the dizziness and the balance problems but may not be the sole cause or even the primary cause. Answer: Monovision correction with lens implants can be a very good option for many patients to help with correction of both distance and near vision.
With monovision, you wear a contact lens on one eye to correct your distance vision and a contact lens on your other eye to correct your near vision. The lens for distance vision is usually worn on your dominant eye. Monovision contact lenses allow a person with presbyopia to do routine near tasks without reading glasses. 1  Mini-monovision. 2  In this variation, a less-than-typical magnifying power is added to the near vision lens.
Can a strong prescription with contact lenses cause vertigo? I recently went to get a contact lense exam and I have -4.50 in my left eye and -3.75 in my right eye for a prescription. I tried Oasys and then tried another type Accuvue 2 and both times I felt dizzy like the room was spinning and I am fine when I take the contact lenses out.
A contact lens trial with monovision does not guarantee success with LASIK monovision since the vision following LASIK is not the same as with a contact lens. An over or under correction and/or reduced quality of vision would be enough to defeat LASIK monovision in spite of success with contact lenses. I had vertigo and nausea after my LASIK also. I vomited a lot for a while-had to take a couple of weeks sick leave from work. I still have eye strain and a disoriented feeling because my prescription and astigmatism axis keep changing.
Angela tuener. During the period of adjustment, monovision contacts may cause blurred or double vision, nausea, headaches, dizziness and general discomfort. Some people may find that their eyes are easy to get tired when reading. And they may see halos or glare around the lights in the evening. People who have normal stereo vision may suffer the loss of depth perception which is caused by monovision contacts. So drivers shouldn't wear monovision contacts, especially when they are driving at night. Because it is very dangerous due to the loss of depth perception.
BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. People over the age of 40 sometimes develop farsightedness, or presbyopia. Monovision is a treatment where the contact lens in the non-dominant eye is set for reading while the lens in the dominant eye is used for perceiving objects at a distance. When both distance and near vision correction are needed, people who wear contact lenses have three options: multifocal contacts that change power from the bottom to the top of the lenses; reading glasses placed over lenses; and, the Monovision system. Other People Are Reading.
How is monovison obtained? The most common method of achieving monovision is with contact lenses. Glasses can sometimes be used for monovision, but typically the difference in the thickness of the glass between the two eyes can cause bothersome symptoms when a person looks through the edges of the glass. Monovision can also be obtained by surgical means. Also, monovision can cause a mild loss of stereovision. Typically, this loss is not noticeable to a person and is inconsequential to their daily activities. However, if a large amount of near correction is used in the near eye, this loss of stereovision may become more noticeable.