The investor relations function must be aware of current and upcoming issues that an organization or issuer may face, particularly those that relate to fiduciary duty and organizational impact. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 significantly increased the importance of investor relations in the financial markets. The act established new requirements for corporate governance and regulatory compliance, with an increased emphasis on accuracy in auditing and public disclosure.
Typically investor relations is a department or person reporting to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) or Treasurer. In some companies, investor relations is managed by the public relations or corporate communications departments, and can also be referred to as financial public relations or financial communications.. Investor relations is considered a specialty of public relations by the U.S. Department of Labor. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 significantly increased the importance of investor relations in the financial markets. The act established new requirements for corporate governance and regulatory compliance, with an increased emphasis on accuracy in auditing and public disclosure.
Investor Relations is the communication of information and insight between a company and the investment community. This process enables a full. 
It allows us to define investor relations, provide a brief overview of the investor relations evolution and discuss the current state and future trends in the investor relations profession. This paper also lists some of the most influential investor relations publications, Web sites, and blogs. It allows us to define investor relations, provide a brief overview of the investor relations evolution and discuss the current state and future trends in the investor relations profession. In conclusion, I list
DEFINITION of 'Investor Relations-IR'. A department, present in most medium to large public companies, that provides investors with an accurate account of the company's affairs. This helps investors to make informed buy or sell decisions. Next Up
The Need for Online Investor Relations Website. Often, the only method of communication to investors after an IPO is the Annual Report and the AGM. However, AGMs have proven to be largely ineffective, mainly due to poor attendance, time constraints, logistical problems and their lack of frequency. As investors have so much choice, Public Listed Companies need an investor relations programme to obtain coverage and support. The investor relations challenge is to secure investors’ interest by delivering information effectively and in a clear and timely manner.
This is indicative of the changes that the field of investor relations experienced at the start of the 21st century with the wave of corporate scandals and changes in securities regulations. Another important change in the definition was the addition of the two-way communications. It allows us to define investor relations, provide a brief overview of the investor relations evolution and discuss the current state and future trends in the investor relations profession. In conclusion, I list some of the most influential investor relations publications, Web sites, and blogs.
The aim of this guide is to provide practical assistance to companies on investor relations by examining best practice and key principles that might be considered when developing an investor relations strategy. 18 What Investor Relations is and who it is aimed at Because analysts normally differ in their opinion on a company’s future performance, there exists a range of forecasts. By taking an average of all the analysts’ forecasts on a particular stock, a ‘consensus’ forecast can be reached.
What investor relations is and who it is aimed at This section of the guide examines what the term investor relations means and focuses on the reasons why a quoted company would choose to implement an investor relations strategy. 18 What Investor Relations is and who it is aimed at Because analysts normally differ in their opinion on a company’s future performance, there exists a range of forecasts. By taking an average of all the analysts’ forecasts on a particular stock, a ‘consensus’ forecast can be reached.
National Investor Relations Institute. Founded in 1969, NIRI is the professional association of corporate officers and investor relations consultants responsible for communication among corporate management, shareholders, securities analysts and other financial community constituents. 