The Sikh scripture is called the Guru Granth Sahib, which is considered the revealed Word of God spoken through Sikh Gurus and other blessed Saints. The Holy Words contained in the Scripture is called Gurbani which literally means ' from the Guru's mouth '. The scripture, then known as the Adi Granth, became a ‘Guru’ itself and was known as the Guru Granth Sahib. Sikhs often add the term ‘Dev Ji’ to the name of the Gurus, eg, Guru Nanak Dev Ji. This is a mark of respect. Page: 1  1.
Home. The word 'Sikh' in the Punjabi language means 'disciple', Sikhs are the disciples of God who follow the writings and teachings of the Ten Sikh Gurus. The wisdom of these teachings in Sri Guru Granth Sahib are practical and universal in their appeal to all mankind. Sikhs only have custodians of the Guru Granth Sahib (granthi), and any Sikh is free to read the Guru Granth Sahib in the Gurdwara (a Sikh temple) or in their home. All people of all religions are welcome to the Gurdwara.
The word Gurbani consists of two roots-Guru and Bani. The word  Guru  means spiritual teacher and here refers to the ten Gurus of Sikhism, the other Bhagats and writers whose writings can be found in the holy Guru Granth. The word  Bani  s refers to their utterances and writings.
The role of Guru Granth Sahib as a source or guide of prayer is pivotal in Sikh worship. The Adi Granth, the first rendition, was first compiled by the fifth Sikh guru, Guru Arjan (1563–1606), from hymns of the first five Sikh gurus and 15 other great saints, or bhagats, including thirteen Hindu and two Muslim saints. Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh guru, added all 115 of Guru Tegh Bahadur 's hymns to the Adi Granth, and this second rendition became known as Guru Granth Sahib. After the tenth Sikh guru died, Baba Deep Singh and Bhai Mani Singh prepared many copies of the work for distribution.
The Adi Granth (meaning the first scripture) was gi … ven the title Guru Granth Sahib by the tenth Sikh guru Guru Gobind Singh when he declared the book to be his successor and to be the permanent guru of the Sikhs. Guru means teacher. Granth means book. Guru Granth Sahib Ji is the Holy Book of Sikh religion. It is written by Sikh Gurus. It is the collection of Hymns or Shabads which describe the qualities of God. The role of Adi Granth, as a source or guide of prayer, is pivotal in worship in Sikhisim
Guru Gobind Singh (1666–1708), the tenth guru, after adding Guru Tegh Bahadur 's bani to the Adi Granth, affirmed the sacred text as his successor. The text is the holy scripture of the Sikhs, regarded as the teachings of the Ten Gurus. Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh guru, added all 115 of Guru Tegh Bahadur 's hymns to the Adi Granth, and this second rendition became known as Guru Granth Sahib. After the tenth Sikh guru died, Baba Deep Singh and Bhai Mani Singh prepared many copies of the work for distribution.
The Guru Granth Sahib is written in the Gurmukhī script, in various dialects – including Lehndi Punjabi, Braj Bhasha, Khariboli, Sanskrit and Persian – often coalesced under the generic title of Sant Bhasha. Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh guru, added all 115 of Guru Tegh Bahadur 's hymns to the Adi Granth, and this second rendition became known as Guru Granth Sahib. After the tenth Sikh guru died, Baba Deep Singh and Bhai Mani Singh prepared many copies of the work for distribution.
The Guru Granth: The Guru Granth is the eternal Guru of the Sikhs and may never be replaced by a human being. The scripture is formally referred to as Siri Guru Granth Sahib, meaning respected scripture of the supreme enlightener. The text is called Gurbani, or the Guru’s word. 
Guru Granth Sahib. The Guru Granth Sahib, is the living Guru of Sikhism. It is a voluminous text of 1430 Angs, compiled and composed during the period of Sikh gurus, from 1469 to 1708. It is a collection of hymns or Baani describing the qualities of God and why one should meditate on God's name. The role of Guru Granth Sahib, as a source or guide of prayer, is pivotal in Sikh worship. The Adi Granth, the first rendition, was first compiled by the fifth Sikh guru, Guru Arjan, from hymns of the first five Sikh gurus and 15 other great saints, or bhagats, including those of the Hindu and Muslim faith.