Grade 3 Sprain. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely. Physicians usually immobilize the joint and prescribe physical therapy, just as with a grade 2 sprain. Most grade 2 sprains take four to six weeks to heal. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely.
After this you need to wear an ankle brace for a further 6 weeks. Physiotherapy treatment is usually required. After 3 months you will work with your physiotherapist to regain the strength, and mobility of your ankle. 
Grade two sprains can take 4 to 6 weeks to heal. This involves partial tearing of the ligaments. Signs of a grade two sprain include instability, moderate to severe pain, swelling, stiffness and possible bruising. Grade three sprains can take 8 to 12 weeks to heal. This is a complete tear of the ligament. With grade three sprains, there is a lot of instability within the joint, severe pain when the injury occurs and no pain after injury, severe swelling and excessive bruising. A Dr. Holman Chan, MD, Foot & Ankle Surgery, answered on behalf of Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center. How long it takes to recover from a sprained ankle can be from one week to one year, says Holman Chan, MD, an orthopedic surgeon at Sunrise Hospital.
As you can imagine, that's going to really impact just how long it takes for that ligament to heal itself back together. General rule of thumb, say for ankle sprain, perhaps a grade one: two, three weeks; grade two: four weeks; and a grade three: sometimes four, six weeks -- sometimes longer. Comments. . Answer: Well, when considering how long it might take for a sprain to heal, you need to consider that there are varying degrees of sprain injuries. There's a grade one, where the ligament that holds the joint in place is stretched
Home Treatment. Ankle sprains take an average of 6 weeks to heal but can take can up to 4 months, depending on the severity. An ankle brace, air stirrup, hiking boots, or other form of ankle support should be worn during this time to protect the ligaments
Typically a sprain will take anywhere from 6 - 8 weeks to completely recovery if it's rehabilitated properly, if it's not it could cause you problems for the rest of your life. A sprain is an injury that involves the stretching, partial tearing, or complete rupture of a ligament. 
It usually takes 5 to 14 days to recover from a grade one ankle sprain. This is when slight stretching and damage occurs to the ligaments. With a grade one sprain, there is slight instability, pain, swelling, joint stiffness, and trouble walking. A Dr. Holman Chan, MD, Foot & Ankle Surgery, answered on behalf of Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center. How long it takes to recover from a sprained ankle can be from one week to one year, says Holman Chan, MD, an orthopedic surgeon at Sunrise Hospital.