Photo by: Andrea Danti. Computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM) is the use of computer techniques to integrate manufacturing activities. These activities encompass all functions necessary to translate customer needs into a final product. 1 Assembly. 2  After they are manufactured, parts and subassemblies are put together with other parts to create a finished product or subassembly. 3  Maintenance. 4  Computers can monitor, intervene, and even correct machine malfunctions as well as quality issues within manufacturing.
Home. One of the keys to success in the manufacturing business is to lessen errors and to enhance productivity. The more one can produce with fewer flaws, the more one can make at the bottom line. Over a period of time factory owners have integrated computer systems in order to streamline the production process. CAM, or computer aided manufacturing, has offered the means by which to produce the more sophisticated items. CAM also enhances the productivity of the factory's output. Together the CAD and CAM systems reduce cycle times, enhance productivity, and aid in the streamlining of the overall
COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING. Welcome to Lakeland Community College's department of computer integrated manufacturing. Lakeland's computer integrated manufacturing technology degree program prepares students for employment in a variety of manufacturing industries
A computer-integrated manufacturing system is not the same as a lights-out factory , which would run completely independent of human intervention, although it is a big step in that direction. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.
CIM & production control system: Computer Integrated Manufacturing is used to describe the complete automation of a manufacturing plant, with all processes running under computer control and digital information tying them together. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.
The term computer-integrated manufacturing is both a method of manufacturing and the name of a computer-automated system in which individual engineering, production, marketing, and support functions of a manufacturing enterprise are organized. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.
Computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM) is the manufacturing approach of using computers to control the entire production process. Computer-integrated manufacturing is used in automotive, aviation, space, and ship building industries.