Use the calculator below to calculate the kinetic energy of a bullet. In order to determine the kinetic energy, you must know the velocity of the bullet and the weight of the bullet in grains. You may add items to the list on the right in order to create a bar graph comparing the different items. 
Multiple watts by seconds to get joules. A 1 Watt device consumes 1 Joule of energy every 1 second. If you multiply the number of watts by the number of seconds, you'll end up with joules. To find out how much energy a 60W light bulb consumes in 120 seconds, simply multiply (60 watts) x (120 seconds) = 7200 Joules. 1  This formula works for any form of power measured in watts, but electricity is the most common application.
This gives the energy output in joules. 0.1 watt x 10 seconds equals 1 joule of electrical energy. 1  As joules are small units, and because appliances commonly use watts, milliwatts, and kilowatts to indicate how much power they use, utilities commonly measure their energy output in kilowatt-hours. To find out how much energy a 60W light bulb consumes in 120 seconds, simply multiply (60 watts) x (120 seconds) = 7200 Joules. 1  This formula works for any form of power measured in watts, but electricity is the most common application.
Consider the moving object for which you would like to calculate the kinetic energy in joules. For example, suppose you want to calculate the energy of a 700 kilogram (kg) car moving at 20 meters per second (m/s). Plug the values into the kinetic energy equation to calculate the joules, as shown below: In science, the joule is the unit of energy or work. It is a compound unit defined as 1 newton of force over a distance of 1 meter, or as the kinetic energy of a 1 kilogram mass moving at one meter per second.
1. Know the formula for calculating kinetic energy. The formula for calculating kinetic energy (KE) is the following: KE = 0.5 * mv 2. Here m stands for mass, the measure of how much matter is in an object, and v stands for velocity of the object, or the rate at which the object changes its position. To find the velocity of an object when you only know the kinetic energy and the mass, just plug the kinetic energy and mass into the same equation and solve for the velocity, remembering to state your answer in m/s.
Joules can also be converted from calories, as calories are another unit of energy. There are 4.19 joules in every calorie. You can calculate joules by calculating the kinetic energy, or energy of motion, of an object. You can also calculate the joules by calculating the amount of work accomplished by a person or machine. Lastly, you can calculate joules by converting directly from a measurement in calories. In science, the joule is the unit of energy or work. It is a compound unit defined as 1 newton of force over a distance of 1 meter, or as the kinetic energy of a 1 kilogram mass moving at one meter per second.
Kinetic energy is the energy of motion. Any object that is in motion has kinetic energy, which can be easily determined if you know the mass and velocity of the object. If you want to know how to calculate the kinetic energy of an object, just follow these steps. To find the velocity of an object when you only know the kinetic energy and the mass, just plug the kinetic energy and mass into the same equation and solve for the velocity, remembering to state your answer in m/s.
How to convert watts to joules. How to convert electric power in watts (W) to energy in joules (J). You can calculate joules from watts and seconds, but you can't convert watts to joules since watt and joule units represent different quantities. The energy E in joules (J) is equal to the power P in watts (W), times the time period t in seconds (s): E (J) = P (W) × t (s).
2. Find the velocity of an object if you only know the kinetic energy and the mass. To find the velocity of an object when you only know the kinetic energy and the mass, just plug the kinetic energy and mass into the same equation and solve for the velocity, remembering to state your answer in m/s.