The Declaration of Independence, 1776. By issuing the Declaration of Independence, adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, the 13 American colonies severed their political connections to Great Britain. The Declaration summarized the colonists’ motivations for seeking independence. The committee presented the final draft before Congress on June 28, 1776, and Congress adopted the final text of the Declaration of Independence on July 4. The British Government did its best to dismiss the Declaration as a trivial document issued by disgruntled colonists
The Declaration became official when Congress voted for it on July 4; signatures of the delegates were not needed to make it official. The handwritten copy of the Declaration of Independence that was signed by Congress is dated July 4, 1776. The United States Declaration of Independence inspired many other similar documents in other countries in the 18th and 19th centuries, spreading to the Low Countries, and then to the Caribbean, Spanish America, the Balkans, West Africa, and Central Europe in the decades up to 1848.
Thomas Jefferson started writing the declaration on June 11, 1776. With him on the committee assigned by Congress was John Adams, who had already submitted a preamble to Congr … ess on May 15, 1776, noting the many similar declarations by various colonies and groups. The Declaration of Independence was written in 1776 because of the abuse of the king in Britain. The declaration declared independence and was the untied states birth certific … ate. It gives us three unalienable rights which are: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This Document is what makes us Americans.
On July 4, 1776, the American colonies declared their freedom from British rule. The (US) Declaration of Independence asserted a philosophy of government that any government c … an only rule with the consent of the governed, and that the basic purpose of government is to protect people's rights. The Declaration of Independence was written in 1776 because of the abuse of the king in Britain. The declaration declared independence and was the untied states birth certific … ate. It gives us three unalienable rights which are: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This Document is what makes us Americans.
The Declaration of Independence wasn’t signed on July 4, 1776. On July 1, 1776, the Second Continental Congress met in Philadelphia, and on the following day 12 of the 13 colonies voted in favor of Richard Henry Lee’s motion for independence. The delegates then spent the next two days debating and revising the language of a statement drafted by Thomas Jefferson.
the decleration of independance was started to give American colonists the freedom that congress thought they needed. the decleration was written in two parts the first part was the colonists rights. the second was the description of many ways colonists denied these rights. The Declaration of Independence was written in 1776 because of the abuse of the king in Britain. The declaration declared independence and was the untied states birth certific … ate. It gives us three unalienable rights which are: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This Document is what makes us Americans.
Congress officially adopted the Declaration of Independence later on July 4 (though most historians now accept that the document was not signed until August 2). 
We celebrate American Independence Day on the Fourth of July every year. We think of July 4, 1776, as a day that represents the Declaration of Independence and the birth of the United States of America as an independent nation. But July 4, 1776 wasn't the day that the Continental Congress decided to declare independence (they did that on July 2, 1776). It wasn’t the day we started the American Revolution either (that had happened back in April 1775). So when people thought of the Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776 was the date they remembered. In contrast, we celebrate Constitution Day on September 17th of each year, the anniversary of the date the Constitution was signed, not the anniversary of the date it was approved.
It did not actually start the war, but it was a declaration of war. The war started at Lexington, Concord and Bunker Hill, but it was not until July 1776 when it was declared, officially by representatives from all 13 colonies. It DID NOT end the war. ry0534 · 6 years ago. 