• SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (noun). The noun SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA has 1 sense: 1. the region of Africa south of the Sahara Desert. Familiarity information: SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA used as a noun is very rare. 
It contrasts with North Africa, which is considered a part of the Arab world. Somalia, Djibouti, Comoros, and Mauritania are geographically part of Sub-Saharan Africa, but also part of the Arab world. The Sahel is the transitional zone between the Sahara and the tropical savanna (the Sudan region) and forest-savanna mosaic to the south. Only seven African countries are not geopolitically a part of Sub-Saharan Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Western Sahara (claimed by Morocco) and Sudan, they form the UN subregion of Northern Africa which also makes up the largest bloc of the Arab World.
Sub-Saharan Africa-the region of Africa to the south of the Sahara Desert. Black Africa. Africa-the second largest continent; located to the south of Europe and bordered to the west by the South Atlantic and to the east by the Indian Ocean. 
Sub-Saharan Africa is, geographically, the area of the continent of Africa that lies south of the Sahara Desert. Only seven African countries are not geopolitically a part of Sub-Saharan Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Western Sahara (claimed by Morocco) and Sudan, they form the UN subregion of Northern Africa which also makes up the largest bloc of the Arab World.
From or forming part of the African regions south of the Sahara desert. Example sentences. 1  Blackcaps spending the summer in northern and eastern Europe are wholly migratory and winter south to sub-Saharan Africa. 2  It's the introduction of an electronic medical record in one of the poorest regions of sub-Saharan Africa. 1
Sub-Saharan Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa is, geographically, the area of the continent of Africa that lies south of the Sahara. Politically, it consists of all African countries that are fully or partially located south of the Sahara. It contrasts with North Africa, which is considered a part of the Arab world. Somalia, Djibouti, Comoros and Mauritania are geographically part of Sub-Saharan Africa, but also part of the Arab world. The Sahel is the transitional zone between the Sahara and the tropical savanna and forest-savanna mosaic to the south
Since probably 3500 B.C.E, the Saharan and Sub-Saharan regions of Africa have been separated by the extremely harsh climate of the sparsely populated Sahara, forming an effective barrier interrupted by only the Nile River in Sudan, though the Nile was blocked by the river's cataracts. Only seven African countries are not geopolitically a part of Sub-Saharan Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Western Sahara (claimed by Morocco) and Sudan, they form the UN subregion of Northern Africa which also makes up the largest bloc of the Arab World.
sub-Saharan. adj. 1. (Placename) in, of, or relating to Africa south of the Sahara desert. (ˌsʌb səˈhaer səˈhær, -ən ˈhɛər, -ən ˈhɑr). ən. adj 