Transverse Myelitis (TM) is a disorder caused by inflammation of the spinal cord. It is characterized by symptoms and signs of neurologic dysfunction in motor and sensory tracts on both sides of the spinal cord. The involvement of motor and sensory control pathways frequently produce altered sensation, weakness and sometimes urinary or bowel dysfunction.
MRI image of Transverse Myelitis patient's spinal cord. Myelitis involves the infection or the inflammation of the white matter or gray matter of the spinal cord which is a part of central nervous system that acts as a bridge between the brain and the rest of the body. Myelitis is classified to several categories depending on the area or the cause of the lesion; however, people often refer to any inflammatory attack on the spinal cord as transverse myelitis.
Overview. Transverse myelitis is a neurological disorder caused by inflammation (swelling) across both sides of one level or segment of the spinal cord. Inflammation can damage or destroy myelin, the fatty protective substance that covers nerve cell fibers
Myelitis is a disease in which the white matter or gray matter of the spinal cord gets inflamed or infected, causing damage to the functionality of the central nervous system. 
Transverse myelitis is an inflammation of the spinal cord, which often targets insulating material covering nerve cell fibers (myelin). Transverse myelitis may result in injury across the spinal cord, affecting sensation below the injury. 
There are four classic symptoms of transverse myelitis: 1  weakness in the arms/legs. 2  sensory symptoms such as numbness or tingling. 3  pain and discomfort. 4  bladder dysfunction and/or bowel motility problems. It is characterized by symptoms and signs of neurologic dysfunction in motor and sensory tracts on both sides of the spinal cord. The involvement of motor and sensory control pathways frequently produce altered sensation, weakness and sometimes urinary or bowel dysfunction.
Transverse myelitis is a neurological disorder caused by inflammation across both sides of one level, or segment, of the spinal cord. The term myelitis refers to inflammation of the spinal cord; transverse simply describes the position of the inflammation, that is, across the width of the spinal cord. Pain is the primary presenting symptom of transverse myelitis in approximately one-third to one-half of all patients. The pain may be localized in the lower back or may consist of sharp, shooting sensations that radiate down the legs or arms or around the torso.
Lupus myelitis is a form of transverse myelitis which is a neurological disorder caused by inflammation of the spinal cord. What causes transverse myelitis is not yet known; the inflammation may result from viral infections or abnormal immune reactions. 
Transverse myelitis is a neurological disorder caused by inflammation across both sides of one level, or segment, of the spinal cord. Most individuals will have only one episode of transverse myelitis. Recovery usually begins within 2 to 12 weeks of the onset of symptoms and may continue for up to 2 years and in some cases longer--requiring aggressive physical therapy and rehabilitation.