Petroleum jelly, petrolatum, white petrolatum, soft paraffin or multi-hydrocarbon, CAS number 8009-03-8, is a semi-solid mixture of hydrocarbons (with carbon numbers mainly higher than 25), originally promoted as a topical ointment for its healing properties. Petroleum jelly is a mixture of hydrocarbons, having a melting point usually within a few degrees of human body temperature, approximately 37 °C (99 °F).
Vaseline® Petroleum Jelly is made of triple-purified petroleum Jelly which is a blend of mineral oils and waxes. Discovered by Robert Chesebrough in 1859, Vaseline® Petroleum Jelly has had a long and dynamic history of keeping skin protected which you can read about HERE. Vaseline® Petroleum Jelly works by creating a sealing barrier between cells in dry or damaged skin which locks in moisture and speeds up your skin’s natural recovery process, helping it to repair itself.
Answer: Petroleum jelly is made by the waxy petroleum material that formed on oil rigs and distilling it. The lighter and thinner oil-based products make up petroleum jelly, also known as white petrolatum or simply as petrolatum. Robert Chesebrough is the chemist who devised and patented this process (U.S. Patent 127,568) in 1872. Basically, the crude material undergoes vacuum distillation. Petroleum jelly also may be applied to dry or chapped skin to seal in moisture. A variation known as red veterinary petroleum confers some protection against UV (ultraviolet) exposure and has been used as a sunscreen. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D.
After petroleum jelly became a medicine chest staple, consumers began to use it for myriad ailments and cosmetic purposes, including toenail fungus, genital rashes (non-STD), nosebleeds, diaper rash, and chest colds. Petroleum jelly is a mixture of hydrocarbons, having a melting point usually within a few degrees of human body temperature, approximately 37 °C (99 °F).
Vaseline Jelly is the original wonder jelly. For over 140 years, it has been helping to keep skin healthy and looking beautiful. Vaseline uses the highest quality ingredients and a proprietary triple purification process involving distillation, de-aeration, and filtration. Vaseline Jelly works by creating a sealing barrier between cells in dry or damaged skin which locks in moisture and speeds up your skin’s natural recovery process, helping it to heal from within.
Vaseline /ˈvaesəˌliːn/ ˈvæsəˌliːn is a brand of petroleum jelly based products owned By-Anglo dutch Company. Unilever products include plain petroleum jelly and a selection of skin, creams, soaps, lotions, cleansers, deodorants and personal. lubricants Chesebrough took samples of the rod wax back to Brooklyn, extracted the usable petroleum jelly, and began manufacturing the medicinal product he called Vaseline. Vaseline was made by the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company until the company was purchased by Unilever in 1987.
Vaseline is a mineral oil based product. It is made from by-products of the petroleum to make gasoline. A minor product like vaseline is made from the base, left-overs of the petroleum. Kind of like scraping the bottom of the barrel. ........................................ I've used those tubs of vaseline for years
The first known reference to the name Vaseline was by the inventor of petroleum jelly, Robert Chesebrough in his U.S. patent for the process of making petroleum jelly (U.S. Patent 127,568) in 1872. I, Robert Chesebrough, have invented a new and useful product from petroleum which I have named Vaseline.... Chesebrough took samples of the rod wax back to Brooklyn, extracted the usable petroleum jelly, and began manufacturing the medicinal product he called Vaseline. Vaseline was made by the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company until the company was purchased by Unilever in 1987.
While Vaseline can be used as a lubricant, it can also be used as a moisture insulator for local skin conditions characterized by tissue dehydration. Vaseline can help protect minor cuts and burns. Chesebrough took samples of the rod wax back to Brooklyn, extracted the usable petroleum jelly, and began manufacturing the medicinal product he called Vaseline. Vaseline was made by the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company until the company was purchased by Unilever in 1987.