Medical Definition of MACROPHAGE. : a phagocytic tissue cell of the immune system that may be fixed or freely motile, is derived from a monocyte, functions in the destruction of foreign antigens (as bacteria and viruses), and serves as an antigen-presenting cell—see histiocyte, mononuclear phagocyte system. — mac·ro·phag·ic \ˌmak-rə-ˈfaj-ik\ adjective. : a phagocytic tissue cell of the immune system that may be fixed or freely motile, is derived from a monocyte, functions in the destruction of foreign antigens (as bacteria and viruses), and serves as an antigen-presenting cell — compare histiocyte. — mac·ro·phag·ic \ˌma-krə-ˈfa-j
An alveolar macrophage (or dust cell) is a type of macrophage found in the pulmonary alveolus, near the pneumocytes, but separated from the wall. Activity of the alveolar macrophage is relatively high, because they are located at one of the major boundaries between the body and the outside world. 
Macrophages. The macrophage is a vital type of white blood cell. A macrophage is a kind of swallowing cell, which means it functions by literally swallowing up other particles or smaller cells. Macrophages are not the only types of cells that function through phagocytosis. There are other important swallowing cells that make up the immune system, such as cells called granulocytes, neutrophils and dendritic cells.
Definition of MACROPHAGE. : a phagocytic tissue cell of the immune system that may be fixed or freely motile, is derived from a monocyte, functions in the destruction of foreign antigens (as bacteria and viruses), and serves as an antigen-presenting cell — compare histiocyte. — mac·ro·phag·ic \ˌma-krə-ˈfa-jik\ adjective.
function of alveolar macrophagesThe function of alveolar macrophage in the lungs is to remove dust particles and other debris from alveolar spaces. -Sheshi. Aveolar macrophages work to break up surfactanct in the aveoli which exists to decrease surface tension in the lungs. 1 The Function of the Macrophage Cells in Colon Cancer A macrophage cell comes from the transformation of monocytes, or white blood cells, operating within tissues. 2  The job of a macrophage is to help with non-specific defense and….
A macrophage is a large white blood cell that is an important part of our immune system. The word 'macrophage' literally means 'big eater.' It is an amoeba-like organism and its job is to clean our body of microscopic debris and invaders. The remaining debris, or what is left of the particle, exits the macrophage to be absorbed back into the body. Macrophages clean up a wide variety of unwanted foreign bodies. Like a bouncer at a nightclub, these large defenders get the job done.
Macrophages can express paracrine functions within organs that are specific to the function of that organ. In the testis for example, macrophages have been shown to be able to interact with Leydig cells by secreting 25-hydroxycholesterol, an oxysterol that can be converted to testosterone by neighbouring Leydig cells. Macrophages are highly specialized in removal of dying or dead cells and cellular debris. This role is important in chronic inflammation, as the early stages of inflammation are dominated by neutrophil granulocytes, which are ingested by macrophages if they come of age (see CD31 for a description of this process).
macrophage. any of the large, mononuclear, highly phagocytic cells derived from monocytes, occurring in the walls of blood vessels (adventitial cells) and in loose connective tissue (histiocytes, phagocytic reticular cells). They are components of the reticuloendothelial system.
One of the most important functions of the macrophages is that they can activate the acquired immune system! After a macrophage has eaten and digested a particle, it displays some of the broken down germ proteins (antigens) on its cell surface. These antigens act as identification signals for Helper T cells. Macrophages are not the only types of cells that function through phagocytosis. There are other important swallowing cells that make up the immune system, such as cells called granulocytes, neutrophils and dendritic cells.
Mφ) are a type of white blood cell that engulfs and digests cellular debris, foreign substances, microbes, cancer cells, and anything else that does not have the types of proteins specific to the surface of healthy body cells on its surface in a process called phagocytosis. Macrophages are highly specialized in removal of dying or dead cells and cellular debris. This role is important in chronic inflammation, as the early stages of inflammation are dominated by neutrophil granulocytes, which are ingested by macrophages if they come of age (see CD31 for a description of this process).