A tsunami is a series of ocean waves generated by sudden displacements in the sea floor, landslides, or volcanic activity. In the deep ocean, the tsunami wave may only be a few inches high. The tsunami wave may come gently ashore or may increase in height to become a fast moving wall of turbulent water several meters high.
Most important, because of the sheer velocity and size of a tsunami, and other cars, debris or people that may be in your way, you likely won't be able to outrun the water, no matter how fast your car is. You want to avoid getting T-boned by a wave and having it roll you upside down, or having the rushing water hit you head-on — the force of which can easily smash your windshield. Normally, if your car is ever plunged into water, you want to get the windows open as soon as possible to aid in your escape. If you're swept up in a tsunami, you'll want to keep the rushing water from shotgunning debris into your car. This is only temporary, as you are still in crash mode. It only takes two feet of rushing water to sweep away a car
The first thing you should know if you want to escape from a pyroclastic flow is that you can't outrun them. They can reach speeds of up to 300 mile/hour; if you are in their path there is no escape. 
We have all read long lists of things to do in the case of various disaster scenarios. However, it is often avoiding what you should NOT do that can mean the difference between life and death or safety and injury. So here is a list of what NOT to do if a tornado is bearing down on you : 1) DON'T try to outrun a tornado. 
Report Abuse. 1. yes 2. it can happen along any coast line 3. you wouldn't be able to outrun it, but you should get to the highest possible ground. 4. Tsunamis happen when there is an earthquake in the ocean floor and the ground shifts causing a huge wave that you can't see until it reaches the slope of a coast. 5. yes it can reach that far 6. when a tsunami gets ready to hit the ocean will suck out from the beach. Best Answer: To answer your questions: 1) Yes, tsunamis in CA are possible. 2) Anywhere along the coast, though they are likely to be much more dangerous in No Cal than in So Cal because of the Cascadia Subduction Zone (...a large subduction zone fault off of the coast of Canada, Washington, Oregon, and No Cal).
A tsunami is a set of powerful ocean waves most commonly caused by a large earthquake or landslide that occurs near or under the ocean. Scientists do not use the term tidal wave because these waves are not caused by tides. Tsunami waves are unlike typical ocean waves generated by wind and storms. When tsunami waves approach shore, they behave like a very fast-moving tide that extends far inland. A rule of thumb is that if you see the tsunami, it is already too late to outrun it. Most tsunamis do not break like the curling, wind-generated waves popular with surfers. Even small tsunamis (for example, 6
1 At the climax of The Rocketeer, Cliff, Jenny, and Lothar all try to outrun the fireball on an exploding hydrogen fueled blimp. 2  What they planned to do is unclear, not that it matters. 3  Lothar is still wearing a harness preventing him from running very far, and is killed. 1 Averted in the Made-for-TV Movie Super Volcano, where a scientist is trying to outrun the fireball, but it catches up and kills her. 2  The film is known for actually doing their research, but allowing for some exaggeration for the Rule of Cool.
Therefore, if you feel the ground shake, evacuate inland or to high ground immediately and return only after officials say it is safe to do so. 4 - If you see an unexpected rise or fall in the coastal water, a tsunami may be approaching. Do not wait-instead move inland or uphill as quickly as possible. Best Answer: To answer your questions: 1) Yes, tsunamis in CA are possible. 2) Anywhere along the coast, though they are likely to be much more dangerous in No Cal than in So Cal because of the Cascadia Subduction Zone (...a large subduction zone fault off of the coast of Canada, Washington, Oregon, and No Cal).