The benefits of rhodiola include well-established uses proven in clinical studies as well as theoretical rhodiola benefits, which several researchers feel confident exist but which haven’t yet been the subject of a specific controlled study. 
Rhodiola rosea, also known as golden root or rose root, has been used for centuries in a variety of medical treatments. Researchers continue to study its effectiveness and overall safety. As with any herbal treatment, consult a doctor before using rhodiola rosea. According to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, rhodiola may be beneficial in the treatment of cancer, cardiovascular disease, fatigue and depression. It may also be beneficial to people who suffer from fibromyalgia, anxiety disorders
1 Early evidence suggests that rhodiola might decrease fatigue in stressful situations. 2  A specific rhodiola extract seems to decrease fatigue and increase a sense of well-being in students taking exams, night-shift workers, and sleep-deprived military cadets. The safety of long-term use is not known. The potential side effects of rhodiola are not known. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There isn’t enough reliable information about the safety of taking Rhodiola if you are pregnant or breast feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
Rhodiola rosea, also called Arctic or Golden Root, is generally placed in a class of plants and fungi affectionately named 'adaptogens'. These are the great healers; the gifts to mankind that the plant community and earth have provided which are incredibly essential to surviving well during times of stress and pressure. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rhodiola rosea (commonly golden root, rose root, roseroot, western roseroot, Aaron's rod, Arctic root, king's crown, lignum rhodium, orpin rose) is a perennial flowering plant in the family Crassulaceae. Rhodiola rosea is from 5 to 40 centimetres (2.0 to 15.7 in) tall, fleshy, and has several stems growing from a short, scaly rootstock. Flowers have 4 sepals and 4 petals, yellow to greenish yellow in color sometimes tipped with red, about 1 to 3.5 millimetres (0.039 to 0.138 in) long, and blooming in summer.
Research regarding R. rosea efficacy is contradictory. While some evidence suggests that the herb may be helpful for enhancing physical performance and alleviating mental fatigue, methodological flaws limit accurate assessment of efficacy. Rhodiola rosea is from 5 to 40 centimetres (2.0 to 15.7 in) tall, fleshy, and has several stems growing from a short, scaly rootstock. Flowers have 4 sepals and 4 petals, yellow to greenish yellow in color sometimes tipped with red, about 1 to 3.5 millimetres (0.039 to 0.138 in) long, and blooming in summer.
Warning. Consult your doctor before using rhodiola rosea, particularly if you are pregnant, suffer from allergies or have a psychological condition such as bipolar disorder. Although the herb is often beneficial in the treatment of psychological conditions, it may also result in mood swings. According to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, rhodiola may be beneficial in the treatment of cancer, cardiovascular disease, fatigue and depression. It may also be beneficial to people who suffer from fibromyalgia, anxiety disorders
Rhodiola rosea is a remarkable herb that has a wide and varied history of uses. It is thought to strengthen the nervous system, fight depression, enhance immunity, elevate the capacity for exercise, enhance memory, aid weight reduction, increase sexual function and improve energy levels. Rhodiola has also been shown to be effective for cardiac problems caused or aggravated by stress. Its action for these conditions is in its ability to decrease the amount of catecholamines and corticosteroids released by the adrenal glands during stress.
1 Fatigue. 2  Early evidence suggests that rhodiola might decrease fatigue in stressful situations. 3  A specific rhodiola extract seems to decrease fatigue and increase a sense of well-being in students taking exams, night-shift workers, and sleep-deprived military cadets. The safety of long-term use is not known. The potential side effects of rhodiola are not known. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There isn’t enough reliable information about the safety of taking Rhodiola if you are pregnant or breast feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
Rhodiola rosea is a powerful natural anti-aging, anti-depression and anti-stress home remedy. In Russia, Rhodiola is known as the 'depression herb' and is a customary home treatment for depression. It is rapidly becoming more well-known in Europe and North America as people become more aware of the multiple benefits of this exciting herb. Try taking 150 mg of a good Rhodiola and then moving up to maybe 300 mg if you like the feeling. No reason to do any more than that. We've had seven years experience with Rhodiola in our household, with great success.