Register the Fire to your Amazon account again. Once your device has reset, you will have the option to proceed as a new device, or you can select to restore the data that was backed up. Go ahead and register your Fire to your Amazon account again so that it is connected to the Cloud. Backup your device manually. Before you do a factory reset on your fire, follow the steps to automatically backup your device above, and then underneath the switch to automatically backup your Fire, select “Back Up Now.”.
The factory reset option on the Kindle Fire HD returns the device to a like-new condition. Keep in mind that a factory reset not only resets all your settings, but completely erases everything saved on the tablet. On the main screen of the Kindle, swipe down from the top of the screen to open the menu. Press More and then tap Device.. Push Reset to Factory Defaults and pick Erase Everything to confirm the choice. The Kindle will turn off, recover the system from a factory image and reboot into the new device setup screen.
1 To perform a hard reset on your Kindle Fire, press and hold the power button for 20 seconds and then release. 2  After the device has completely turned off, press the power button to restart your Kindle Fire. 
1 You should reset your Kindle Fire if you are selling the device or giving it away to a friend or family member. 2  Resetting the device will delete all your personal information, including usernames, passwords, credit card information, and any other private or sensitive information. Backup your device manually. Before you do a factory reset on your fire, follow the steps to automatically backup your device above, and then underneath the switch to automatically backup your Fire, select “Back Up Now.”.
Factory Reset. Press and release the Power button to activate your second-generation Kindle Fire or Kindle Fire HD. Step 2. Swipe down from the top of the screen to display the device options, and then tap “More” to display the Settings menu. Tip. 1  The first-generation Kindle Fire uses a different technique for resetting forgotten passwords. 2  Enter any password four times. 3  After the fourth unsuccessful attempt, the tablet asks if you want to reset the device. 4  Select “Yes” and the device will revert to its factory settings
If you are locked out of your Kindle Fire or Kindle Fire HD because you have forgotten your password, the only way to get back in is to perform a factory reset, which restores the tablet to its default settings. Tip. 1  The first-generation Kindle Fire uses a different technique for resetting forgotten passwords. 2  Enter any password four times. 3  After the fourth unsuccessful attempt, the tablet asks if you want to reset the device. 4  Select “Yes” and the device will revert to its factory
Step 3. Tap “Device” and select “Reset to Factory Defaults.”. Step 4. Tap “Erase Everything,” and then tap “Yes” to confirm. The Kindle restarts and restores the factory settings. Wait about five minutes. The tablet will restart and prompt you to connect to a network. Tip. 1  The first-generation Kindle Fire uses a different technique for resetting forgotten passwords. 2  Enter any password four times. 3  After the fourth unsuccessful attempt, the tablet asks if you want to reset the device. 4  Select “Yes” and the device will revert to its factory settings
1 Next, you get Settings screen. 2  Here tap on Device button. 3  Now, scroll down to the ending screen under Device list and tap on Reset to Factory Defaults button. 4  A Confirmation pop-up prompts to continue Factory Data Reset action on Kindle HD tablet. 5  At last tap on Erase Everything button. 
If you forget your password, you can deregister your Kindle Fire from Manage Your Kindle (www.amazon.com/manageyourkindle) to reset the parental controls password. Deregistering your Kindle Fire will also allow you to keep any downloaded items on your device. 