Fossils discovered at the two sites were found to have very similar features and ages but they did not match the fossils of any species known at that time. A new species name, Australopithecus afarensis, was therefore created for them in 1978. This species is now represented by several hundred fossils from east Africa. Australopithecus means ‘southern ape’ and was originally developed for a species found in South Africa. This is the genus or group name and several closely related species now share this name.
The first A. afarensis skeleton was discovered on November 24, 1974 near Hadar in Ethiopia by Tom Gray in the company of Donald Johanson, as part of a team involving Maurice Taieb, Yves Coppens and Tim White in the Middle Awash of Ethiopia 's Afar Depression. By the time it was found, it was the first complete skull of A. afarensis. The rarity of relatively complete craniofacial remains in the A. afarensis samples before the discovery of AL 444-2 seriously hampered prior meaningful analysis of those samples' evolutionary significance.
Evolutionary Tree Information: This species may be a direct descendant of Au. anamensis and may be ancestral to later species of Paranthropus, Australopithecus, and Homo. AL 288-1. ‘Lucy’ (AL 288-1) is an adult female, 3.2 million-year-old A. afarensis skeleton found at Hadar, Ethiopia. Because she could walk upright on the ground and climb trees, she and other members of her species were able to use resources from woodlands, grasslands, and other diverse environments. The Laetoli footprints were most likely made by Australopithecus afarensis, an early human whose fossils were found in the same sediment layer. The entire footprint trail is almost 27 m (88 ft) long and includes impressions of about 70 early human footprints.
The most famous fossil is the partial skeleton named Lucy (3.2 million years old) found by Donald Johanson and colleagues, who, in celebration of their find, repeatedly played the Beatles song Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds. By the time it was found, it was the first complete skull of A. afarensis. The rarity of relatively complete craniofacial remains in the A. afarensis samples before the discovery of AL 444-2 seriously hampered prior meaningful analysis of those samples' evolutionary significance.
National Geographic News. Perhaps the world's most famous early human ancestor, the 3.2-million-year-old ape Lucy was the first Australopithecus afarensis skeleton ever found, though her remains are only about 40 percent complete (photo of Lucy's bones). Discovered in 1974 by paleontologist Donald C. Johanson in Hadar, Ethiopia, A. afarensis was for about 20 years the earliest known human ancestor species (Africa map).
The first A. afarensis knee joint was discovered in November 1973 by Donald Johanson as part of a team involving Maurice Taieb, Yves Coppens, and Tim White in the Middle Awash of Ethiopia 's Afar Depression. By the time it was found, it was the first complete skull of A. afarensis. The rarity of relatively complete craniofacial remains in the A. afarensis samples before the discovery of AL 444-2 seriously hampered prior meaningful analysis of those samples' evolutionary significance.
The sites where remains of Au. anamensis have been found were forests and woodlands that grew around lakes. Evolutionary Tree Information: Jaw remains suggest that this species was the direct ancestor of Australopithecus afarensis, and possibly the direct descendent of a species of Ardipithecus. KNM-KP 29285. A team led by Meave Leakey found the A. anamensis type specimen, mandible KNM-KP 29281, in Kenya in 1994. 
In 2000, the skeleton of a 3-year-old A. afarensis female, which comprised almost the entire skull and torso, and most parts of the limbs, was discovered in Dikika, Ethiopia, a few miles from the place where Lucy was found. By the time it was found, it was the first complete skull of A. afarensis. The rarity of relatively complete craniofacial remains in the A. afarensis samples before the discovery of AL 444-2 seriously hampered prior meaningful analysis of those samples' evolutionary significance.
A. afarensis The most famous specimen of Australopithecus - Lucy - belongs to the species, A. afarensis. Found at sites in East Africa (e.g., Laetoli, Hadar), A. afarensis-which spans a time range between 3.8-2.8 Mya-has provided a great deal of fossil information concerning the morphology of early hominids. 