Leonardo got his start as an artist around 1469, when his father apprenticed him to the fabled workshop of Verocchio. Verocchio's specialty was perspective, which artists had only recently begun to get the hang of, and Leonardo quickly mastered its challenges.
In fact, Leonardo quickly surpassed Verocchio, and by the time he was in his early twenties he was downright famous. Renaissance Italy was centuries away from our culture of photographs and cinema, but Leonardo nevertheless sought a universal language in painting.
The Last Supper. It was while he was in Milan that Leonardo painted one of his most famous works, The Last Supper. This painting, depicting the last Passover dinner for Jesus and his disciples, was to be done on a wall of the monk's dining hall at Santa Maria della Grazie.
Leonardo da Vinci: A Genius Before His Time. He was a scientist before there was science, an inventor whose ideas outstripped the technology of his time, and a famous artist who produced the most valuable and recognized painting in the world.
Leonardo da Vinci Leonardo da Vinci: A Genius Before His Time He was a scientist before there was science, an inventor whose ideas outstripped the technology of his time, and a famous artist who produced the most valuable and recognized painting in the world.
By the way, don't confuse Leonardo of Pisa with Leonardo da Vinci ! Vinci was just a few miles from Pisa on the way to Florence, but Leonardo da Vinci was born in Vinci in 1452, about 200 years after the death of Leonardo of Pisa (Fibonacci).
The first is da Vinci’s “The Last Supper,” painted during his time in Milan, from about 1495 to 1498. A tempera and oil mural on plaster, “The Last Supper” was created for the refectory of the city’s Monastery of Santa Maria delle Grazie.
LOCATION In 1495, Leonardo Da Vinci began painting the Last Supper on the wall of the refectory (dining hall) of Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan, Italy, and completed it in 1498. Leonardo was commissioned to execute the painting in the Dominican monastery of this Church by Duke of Milan, Ludovico Sforza.
Leonardo da Vinci, perhaps most noted as an artist, was also an architect, inventor and chronicler of science, among other outlets for his talents. Born on April 15, 1452, in Vinci, Italy, Leonardo da Vinci was the son of a prominent attorney notary and a young peasant girl.
Leonardo Da Vinci made many futuristic inventions of his time like an Armored Car (early tank), Flying Machine, Ornithopter Flying Machine (early helicopter), Parachute, Artillery and an Eight Barreled Machine Gun.