her·pes zos·ter. An infection caused by varicella-zoster virus, characterized by an eruption of groups of vesicles on one side of the body along the course of a nerve, due to inflammation of ganglia and dorsal nerve roots; the condition is self-limited but may be accompanied by or followed by severe postherpetic pain. Definition. Shingles, also called herpes zoster or zona, gets its name from both the Latin and French words for belt or girdle and refers to girdle-like skin eruptions that may occur on the trunk of the body.
Shingles has another name, which is herpes zoster or as zoster. Herpes zoster is a viral disease characterized by a painful skin rash with blisters in a limited area on one side of the body, often in a stripe. Shingles (herpes zoster) is a viral infection of the nerve roots. It causes pain and often causes a rash on one side of the body, the left or right. The rash appears in a band, a strip, or a small area.
Shingles is the reactivation of a viral infection in the nerves to the skin that causes pain, burning, or a tingling sensation, along with an itch and blisters in the skin supplied by the affected nerve. It is caused by the varicella zoster virus[1] , or VZV—the same virus that causes chickenpox. herpes zoster —the medical term for shingles; an infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus, one of the herpesviruses family of viruses. herpes simplex —the medical term for a related but different virus that causes repeated mild blisters of the skin or mucous membrane.
Health Ailments Shingles distributio. Shingles is a condition characterized by painful blisters that typically appear in a linear distribution on the skin following nerve pathways. Shingles is caused by reactivation of a previous infection with the varicella-zoster virus. This band is usually only on one side of the body and represents a dermatome--the area that a single sensory nerve supplies in the skin. Today's treatments provide a variety of ways to shorten the duration of a shingles outbreak and to control the associated pain.
The first sign of shingles is often burning or tingling pain, or sometimes numbness or itch, in one particular location on only one side of the body. After several days or a week, a rash of fluid-filled blisters, similar to chickenpox, appears in one area on one side of the body. Shingles pain can be mild or intense. Shingles is a condition characterized by painful blisters that typically appear in a linear distribution on the skin following nerve pathways. Shingles is caused by reactivation of a previous infection with the varicella-zoster virus. Shingles is a herpes virus infection (herpes zoster) that usually affects a nerve, causing pain in one area of the body
The first sign of shingles is often burning or tingling pain, or sometimes numbness or itch, in one particular location on only one side of the body. After several days or a week, a rash of fluid-filled blisters, similar to chickenpox, appears in one area on one side of the body. Shingles pain can be mild or intense. This band is usually only on one side of the body and represents a dermatome--the area that a single sensory nerve supplies in the skin. Today's treatments provide a variety of ways to shorten the duration of a shingles outbreak and to control the associated pain.
What is shingles? Shingles (herpes zoster) are an outbreak of rash or blisters on the skin that is caused by the same virus that causes chicken pox-the varicella-zoster virus. The first sign of shingles is often burning or tingling pain, or sometimes numbness, in or under the skin.
Shingles is characterized by pain along an affected nerve and its branches and the eruption of blisters over skin areas supplied by the nerve. An attack will usually be preceded by a few days of intense pain in the affected areas. Unlike chickenpox, a shingles outbreak is anything but benign. The first sign is usually unilateral tingling, itching, or stabbing pain on the skin. After a few days, a red, blistering rash appears that is severely painful rash that can last for weeks. At its peak, symptoms range from a mild itch to intense pain.