Keep accurate financial records using patient account software. Secure patients’ financial commitment to help them start the best treatment possible.... Pacific Dental Services - 2 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Castle Rock, CO jobs. 2  Salary Search: Treatment Coordinator salaries in Castle Rock, CO. 3  Related forums: Pacific Dental Services-Castle Rock, Colorado - -. 
Dental Financial Coordinator Salary. Dental Financial Coordinator average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Dental Financial Coordinator salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Dental Financial Coordinator salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Average Financial Coordinators in the United States make around $18.09 per hour. In the world of Financial Coordinators, total cash compensation can vary between $29K and $56K. Each package generally includes bonuses and profit sharing proceeds, and in exceptional cases, those amounts can reach heights of $3K and $4K, respectively. Many Financial Coordinators move into an Office Manager of a Dental Office role, which does not lead to a big boost in pay. Office Managers of Dental Offices on average bring in a similar salary to Financial Coordinators.
(United States). Most Dental Financial Coordinators in the United States are women. The workforce as a whole earns a median of approximately $17.84 per hour. More than a third enjoy medical while about one-half get dental coverage. Vision coverage is also available to about a tenth. Dental Financial Coordinators who work for 10 to 20 years in their occupation tend to earn about $40K. Seasoned workers who boast more than two decades of relevant experience enjoy a median salary of $45K, which is substantially larger than the medians reported by folks with fewer years on their resumes.
By Linda Drevenstedt, RDH, MS, and Jennifer McDonald. The purpose of a treatment coordinator, even if it’s in tandem with other duties, is to ensure completion of the cycle from the clinical diagnosis to a patient on your schedule who has made a clear financial agreement to pay for the treatment. Ask if the patient would like to take advantage of your bookkeeper’s courtesy savings if 100% of the total fee minus 5% is paid before treatment begins. Patients with dental insurance will have the insurance check sent to them.
Financial Coordinator Salary. Financial Coordinator average salary is $51,213, median salary is $45,800 with a salary range from $24,000 to $134,514. Financial Coordinator salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Financial Coordinator salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly
our upbeat dutchess county orthodontic office is looking for a full time financial coordinator the financial coordinator is responsible for all patient and view all wappingers dental office jobs in wappingers falls ny wappingers falls jobs salary search financial insurance coordinator salaries in wappingers falls ny related forums wappingers dental office wappingers falls new york
Relatively untried employees who have less than five years' experience have a median salary of $38K. Those who have been around for five to 10 years can expect to take home more — $41K on average. On average, Financial Coordinators make $42K following one to two decades on the job. Many Financial Coordinators move into an Office Manager of a Dental Office role, which does not lead to a big boost in pay. Office Managers of Dental Offices on average bring in a similar salary to Financial Coordinators.