The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance. The brain is made of three main parts: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lob
Discovering the Brain is a field guide to the brain--an easy-to-read discussion of the brain's physical structure and where functions such as language and music appreciation lie. Ackerman examines. 1  How electrical and chemical signals are conveyed in the brain. The preponderance of the cerebral cortex (which, with its supporting structures, makes up approximately 80 percent of the brain's total volume) is actually a recent development in the course of evolution.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. Many different parts of the brain and their functions are shown in the article. The human brain is ultimately responsible for all thought and movement that the body produces.
The Five Major Structures of the Brain. The brain is an amazing structure. It is the most complex and interesting part of the human body. It is like a huge computer that runs every function of the body. The brain is made up of the five major structures that include: the myelencephalon, metencephalon, mesencephalon, deicephalon, and the telencephalon. Each of these structures also has substructures involved within them. You start learning how to do things when you are born and keep learning as you grow old.
The pons and the medulla, two major elements of the brainstem, channel nerve signals between the brain and other parts of the body, controlling vital functions such as breathing and deliberate movement. The preponderance of the cerebral cortex (which, with its supporting structures, makes up approximately 80 percent of the brain's total volume) is actually a recent development in the course of evolution.
The Brain: Structure and Function. In this video Paul Andersen explains the structures and functions of seventeen major parts of the brain. He begins with a quick discussion of brain evolution and ends with a review of the major parts presented inside the brainstem, cerebellum, thalamus, and cerebrum. 
• The brain stem is between the spinal cord and the rest of the brain. Basic functions like breathing and sleep are controlled here. • The basal ganglia are a cluster of structures in the center of the brain. The basal ganglia coordinate messages between multiple other brain areas. 
The hindbrain contains several structures that regulate autonomic functions, which are essential to survival and not under our conscious control. The brainstem, at the top of the spinal cord, controls breathing, the beating of the heart, and the diameter of blood vessels. The preponderance of the cerebral cortex (which, with its supporting structures, makes up approximately 80 percent of the brain's total volume) is actually a recent development in the course of evolution.
Human Brain. Paul Carus. The anatomy of the brain is complex due its intricate structure and function. This amazing organ acts as a control center by receiving, interpreting, and directing sensory information throughout the body. The brain and spinal cord are the two main structures of the central nervous system. There are three major divisions of the brain.