While O'Reilly's machine was based on the tattoo rotary technology of Edison's device, modern tattoo machines use electromagnets. The first machine based on this technology was a single coil machine patented by Thomas Riley of London, just twenty days after O'Reilly filed the patent for his rotary machine. 1 Liner tattoo machine: The purpose of a liner machine is to lay the ink in the skin in one single pass to create a dominant line. 2  It uses a short contact circuit (about 1.5mm–2mm), which causes the machine to cycle faster.
1 Pneumatic tattoo machine: Tattoo artist Carson Hill in the year 2000 invented the first pneumatic tattoo machine and began the patent process. 2  A pneumatic tattoo machine is powered by an air compressor, and they are extremely lightweight. 1 Liner tattoo machine: The purpose of a liner machine is to lay the ink in the skin in one single pass to create a dominant line. 2  It uses a short contact circuit (about 1.5mm–2mm), which causes the machine to cycle faster.
In 1891, Samuel O'Rtiely patented the first electric tattooing machine. It was based on Edison's electric pen which punctured paper with a needle point. The basic design with moving coils, a tube and a needle bar, are the components of today's tattoo gun. 
The predecessor to the tattoo machine was the electric pen invented by Thomas Alva Edison and patented under the title Stencil-Pens in Newark, New Jersey, United States in 1876. 1 Liner tattoo machine: The purpose of a liner machine is to lay the ink in the skin in one single pass to create a dominant line. 2  It uses a short contact circuit (about 1.5mm–2mm), which causes the machine to cycle faster.
The rotary tattoo machine was the first tattoo device to use electricity. The first single-coil tattoo machine, which utilizes electromagnets, was patented just 20 days after O’Reilly’s rotary machine in London, England, by Thomas Riley. Riley’s machine was made from a modified doorbell assembly that he placed in a brass box. Today the most common tattoo machine is a coil tattoo machine. The coil tattoo machine utilizes a power source, or amp, to power small electromagnetic coils to move an armature bar up and down. This moving part is connected to the needle or barred needle grouping that pushes the ink into the skin.
1 Rotary tattoo machine: A rotary tattoo machine, built in 1978 by Manfred Kohrs of Germany. 2  Rotary tattoo machines were the original machines, based on rotary technology, which was invented by Samuel O'Reilly and improved by the tattoo artists through the years. 1 Liner tattoo machine: The purpose of a liner machine is to lay the ink in the skin in one single pass to create a dominant line. 2  It uses a short contact circuit (about 1.5mm–2mm), which causes the machine to cycle faster.
nolimitpictures | Getty Images. The electric tattooing machine was officially patented on Dec. 8th 1891 by a New York tattoo artist named Samuel O'Reilly. But even O’Reilly would be the first to admit that his invention was really an adaptation of a machine invented by Thomas Edison —the Autographic Printing Pen. O’Reilly’s tattoo machine worked by using a hollow needle filled with permanent ink. An electric motor powered the needle in and out of the skin at a rate of up to 50 punctures per second.
The first twin coil machine, the predecessor of the modern configuration, was invented by another Englishman, Alfred Charles South of Cockspur St. London (Patented London Jun. 30th 1899). His construction was also based on a door bell assembly in a plate steel box with brass slabs attached to each side. The Tattoo Machine: The Tattoo Machine is a very curious device, its origins lie in the first practical use of an electric motor, a great American inventor and the cooperation of craftsmen from both sides of the Atlantic.
Modern tattooing began in 1891 in New York City with the invention of the rotary tattoo machine by Samuel O’Reilly. That same year in London, England, Thomas Riley invented the first coil tattoo machine. Today the most common tattoo machine is a coil tattoo machine. The coil tattoo machine utilizes a power source, or amp, to power small electromagnetic coils to move an armature bar up and down. This moving part is connected to the needle or barred needle grouping that pushes the ink into the skin.