Pronator teres syndrome or pronator teres compression syndrome (PTS) is a nerve entrapment at the elbow. Although not as common as carpal tunnel syndrome, the symptoms of PTS are similar to that of the former as in both the cases, it is the medial nerve that is involved.
Pronator teres syndrome (also called pronator syndrome) is one of three common median nerve entrapment syndromes; the other two being anterior interosseous nerve syndrome and the far more common carpal tunnel syndrome.
Overview. Pronator syndrome is a condition in which the median nerve becomes compressed in the forearm at or just below (distal to) the elbow flexion crease (cubital fossa or elbow pit), causing pain, as well as tingling and numbness (paresthesia) in the median nerve distribution.
Pronator syndrome, while less familiar than carpal tunnel syndrome, is a similar condition. It involves compression of the median nerve as it passes through the two heads of the pronator teres. Patients with pronator syndrome experience deep, aching pain at the crook of the elbow or the adjacent area of the forearm.
Pronator teres syndrome is a compression neuropathy of the median nerve at the elbow. It is rare compared to compression at the wrist (carpal tunnel syndrome) or isolated injury of the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve (anterior interosseous syndrome).
Pronator syndrome is a constellation of symptoms caused by the entrapment of the median nerve at the elbow. The median nerve is one of the three nerves which supply sensory and motor function to the upper extremity.
Pronator syndrome is the most proximal entrapment neuropathy of the median nerve. Compression can occur at one of several anatomic locations in the elbow region. It is extremely rare in comparison with carpal tunnel syndrome, which presents with similar sensory symptoms.
In Pronator Syndrome, compression of the nerve occurs at the elbow. Entrapment of the median nerve can also occur at the wrist, causing Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, or at the forearm, causing Anterior Interosseous Nerve Syndrome.