Invertebrates include animal groups such as sponges, cnidarians, flatworms, mollusks, arthropods, segmented worms, and echinoderms as well as many other lesser-known groups of animals. The most notable characteristic of invertebrates is that they have no backbone. These six basic animal groups include: amphibians, birds, fish, invertebrates, mammals, and reptiles. When you have a understanding of these six groups, you'll be on your way to grasping the basic characteristics of virtually every animal on the planet.
1 Mollusks are soft-bodied animals, which often live in hard shells. 2  They include snails, slugs, octopus, squid, mussels, oysters, clams, scallops, chitons, and cuttlefish. 3  Mollusks are the second-largest group of invertebrates, with 50,000 living species. 4  Arthropods are the largest and most diverse of all animal groups. Almost all animals fall into one of two groups. Adult vertebrates have a spinal column, or backbone, running the length of the body; invertebrates do not. Vertebrates are often larger and have more complex bodies than invertebrates. However, there are many more invertebrates than 
Worms. 'Worm' is the common name given to a diverse group of invertebrate animals that have a long, soft body and no legs. Worms are found worldwide, in freshwater, seawater, and on land. 
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. Arthropod Phylum: All the jointed legged animals. All of these animals have an exoskeleton, meaning the skeleton is on the outside of the body.
Christmas tree worm-Spirobranchus giganteus. Photo Credit: Photo © Nick Hobgood / Wikipedia. Segmented worms are a group of invertebrates that includes earthworms, ragworms and leeches. Segmented worms include more than 22,000 species that are categorized into two basic groups, the polychates and the clitellates. 
Flatworms lack a coelom and other worms are referred to as pseudo-coelomates. The most advanced worms are true coleomates as are all groups of higher animals which evolved from worms (such as mollusks, arthropods, and vertebrates). Worm trails are present in Ediacaran strata. Fossils from the earliest Cambrian include embryos of segmented worms (Bengston, 1997). Worms lack the specialized limbs that are present in most higher animals such as vertebrates and arthropods.
Worms live in almost all parts of the world including marine, freshwater, and terrestrial habitats. Some worms living in the ground help to condition the soil (e.g., annelids, aschelminths). Many thrive as parasites of plants (e.g., aschelminths) and animals, including humans (e.g., platyhelminths, aschelminths). Several other worms may be free-living, or non parasitic. There are worms that live in freshwater, seawater, and even on the seashore. Worms are hermaphrodites (both sexes in one animal) but can cross fertilize. Other invertebrate groups may be called worms, especially colloquially. In particular, many unrelated insect larvae are called worms, such as the railroad worm, woodworm, glowworm, bloodworm, inchworm, mealworm, silkworm, and wooly bear worm.
The main groups of parasites are as follows: Kingdom: Animalia (animals). Phylum: Acanthocephala (spiny-headed worms). Phylum: Annelida (segmented worms). 1  Class: Hirudinea (leeches). 
Of molluscs, worms, and lophophores. The Lophotrochozoa comprise one of the major groups within the animal kingdom, In turn, the Lophotrochozoa belongs to a larger group within the Animalia called the Bilateria, because they are bilaterally symmetrical with a left and a right side to their bodies. 
By Phil Myers. The annelids include earthworms, polychaete worms, and leeches. All members of the group are to some extent segmented, in other words, made up of segments that are formed by subdivisions that partially transect the body cavity. Segmentation is also called metamerism. 