A notary verifies your identity, watches you sign the document and then signs and stamps your document. Likely you will be charged a per notarization charge. To complete the notarization you must sign the notary's journal and provide a thumb print in their journal. In your case, a notary public is someone who will legally vouch for the fact that the person signing your form (you) is the person that you claim to be.
7) place their official seal on the document (if required by their state to do so). 8) In many states, the notary public will record the details of the notary act he or she just completed in a notary journal and have the signer of the document sign the journal. In some states, notaries also get a thumbprint of the signer in their journals.
1 Once you have signed the document, the Notary will affix her or his stamp (or “seal”) to the document. 2  The document is now notarized. 3  Having a document notarized is the same as swearing under oath in a court of law—you are saying that the facts contained in the document are true. For instance, banks, other financial institutions and the court system often require documents to be notarized. It’s the Notary Public’s role to verify the identity of the person signing the document. The Notary will also confirm the signatory understands the meaning of what she or he is signing.
stamp-a symbol that is the result of printing or engraving; he put his stamp on the envelope. impression. symbol-an arbitrary sign (written or printed) that has acquired a conventional significance. embossment, imprint-an impression produced by pressure or printing. stamp. 1. to strike or beat with a forcible, downward thrust of the foot. 2. to bring (the foot) down forcibly on the ground, floor, etc. 3. to crush, extinguish, etc., by or as if by striking with a forcible downward thrust of the foot (often fol. by out): to stamp out a fire; to stamp out crime.
3 An act or sound of stamping with the foot: the stamp of boots on the bare floor. More example sentences. 1  He heard the steps of delicate feet, the stamp of the horses' hooves, and then a sound like silk sliding against silk. 3 Fix a postage stamp or stamps on to (a letter): Annie stamped the envelope for her. More example sentences. 1  On August 31, 2001, Kitty stamped her last letter as postmistress of the local post office. 2  They then have to be folded and put into envelopes to be stamped.
Best Answer: A notary public is a legally authorized individual who can administer oaths and witness and authenticate documents. In your case, a notary public is someone who will legally vouch for the fact that the person signing your form (you) is the person that you claim to be. They will determine this by asking you to provide one or more forms of legally acceptable identification
You can use food stamps to buy food and seeds and plants to grow food for your household to eat. Food stamps can be used at a grocery store, a supermarket, a farmer's market, a shelter that serves meals, or at a soup kitchen. The maximum amount of food stamps that can be received per month by a household of one person is $162, of two persons is $298, and of three persons is $426. Food stamps are not intended to pay for all of the food needed for a month.
If you tell someone that you are a notary public, you can often expect that he or she will nod knowingly, as if fully aware of what that means. However, most people know only that a notary is someone who stamps documents.. 8) In many states, the notary public will record the details of the notary act he or she just completed in a notary journal and have the signer of the document sign the journal. In some states, notaries also get a thumbprint of the signer in their journals.
stamp. v. stamped, stamp·ing, stamps. v. tr. 1. To bring down (the foot) forcibly. 2. To bring the foot down onto (an object or surface) forcibly. 3. To cause to be dislodged by stomping the feet: He stamped the snow from his boots. 4. stamp. 1. to strike or beat with a forcible, downward thrust of the foot. 2. to bring (the foot) down forcibly on the ground, floor, etc. 3. to crush, extinguish, etc., by or as if by striking with a forcible downward thrust of the foot (often fol. by out): to stamp out a fire; to stamp out crime.