Conclusion: Such a plan is not subject to New Yorks External Appeal Law, but is subject to regulations promulgated in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), 29 U.S.C.A. § 1001 et seq. (West 1999 and 2003 Supplement). (McKinney 2002), is, as is New Yorks Internal Appeal Law, specifically made not applicable to ERISA plans. New York Insurance Law § 4908 (McKinney 2000) and New York Public Health Law § 4908 (McKinney 2002).
In this regard, you represent that the IRAs made available by TIAA-CREF to its employees are offered on the same terms as to employees of educational and research institutions and do not constitute employee pension benefit plans within the meaning of section 3(2) of ERISA and the regulations promulgated thereunder. TIAA-CREF offers its own employees the opportunity to establish TIAA-CREF IRAs. These TIAA-CREF IRA contracts are issued on the same terms as contracts issued to non-TIAA-CREF employees. In addition, TIAA-CREF does not sponsor, maintain, or contribute to these
Non-ERISA 403(b) plans do not currently have to file Form 5500 each year. Since ERISA 403(b) plans are subject to all of the filing and auditing requirements that currently apply only to qualified plans, this exemption is an important advantage. 1 An employer may not have the right to unilaterally move funds from one 403(b) investment to another 403(b) investment. 2  The employer may make optional plan features available, such as loans and hardships, as long as the vendor is responsible for any discretionary determinations.
The Spousal waiver form can be found in the Forms section of the TIAA-CREF Administrator Web Center Home Page. Simply click on view all forms then click on the Retirement Income Forms dropdown menu and select the appropriate form. As the plan administrator, you may be asked to confirm the marital status of single employees or verify the spouse's signature. His/her spouse agrees to permit a non-spouse to be designated the second annuitant; or. . The spouse agrees to an income option that does not provide him/her at least 50% of the benefit in the event the first annuitant dies.
Sponsors and administrators of a non-ERISA 403(b) plan are not subject to ERISA’s fiduciary requirements. And it is ERISA that requires a participant’s spouse to receive a 50% share of the participant’s account unless they sign a spousal waiver. 1 An employer may not have the right to unilaterally move funds from one 403(b) investment to another 403(b) investment. 2  The employer may make optional plan features available, such as loans and hardships, as long as the vendor is responsible for any discretionary determinations.
Your determination that TIAA-CREF IRAs are not employee benefit plans under section 3(2) of ERISA presupposes that TIAA-CREF has no involvement with the IRAs in its capacity as an employer of TIAA-CREF employees. TIAA-CREF offers its own employees the opportunity to establish TIAA-CREF IRAs. These TIAA-CREF IRA contracts are issued on the same terms as contracts issued to non-TIAA-CREF employees. In addition, TIAA-CREF does not sponsor, maintain, or contribute to these
Plans offered through the marketplace must include the option to roll over contributions to different retirement accounts. Although these plans are subject to ERISA, Washington State is not exposed to ERISA liability. The legislation dedicates $400,000 toward the establishment of a Connecticut Retirement Security Board and directs the board to conduct a market feasibility study and create a comprehensive implementation plan for a new state-administered retirement program.
You represent that CREF is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, is subject to periodic inspection of the New York State Insurance Department and is licensed as an insurance company under the laws of other states. TIAA-CREF offers its own employees the opportunity to establish TIAA-CREF IRAs. These TIAA-CREF IRA contracts are issued on the same terms as contracts issued to non-TIAA-CREF employees. In addition, TIAA-CREF does not sponsor, maintain, or contribute to these
A participant's spouse must generally be designated the beneficiary for at least 50% of the benefits under the plan by any employee who participated in a retirement plan subject to ERISA after August 22, 1984, unless he or she files a Waiver of Spouse's Right to a Survivor Benefit confirming that he/she is not: His/her spouse agrees to permit a non-spouse to be designated the second annuitant; or. . The spouse agrees to an income option that does not provide him/her at least 50% of the benefit in the event the first annuitant dies.