A: If you plan to become a paralegal, you must have a degree or certification in paralegal studies. You can choose from different paralegal programs at associate and bachelor level. These programs will equip you with in-depth knowledge of the legal industry. You can also opt for a certificate in paralegal studies. A: To become a paralegal, you must have at least an associate-level degree in paralegal studies. There are many institutes offering paralegal degree programs at associate and bachelor level. These programs aim at providing students with knowledge of the law industry, legal terminology, and legal research
Get certified. Though paralegal certification is not required by all employers, it will give you an advantage over competing candidates. If you have already graduated with a bachelor's or associate's degree in an unrelated field, it might be a good idea for you to become a certified paralegal. 
Many scam schools, online schools, and 1 year programs advertise awarding you a certificate. That does NOT make you a certified paralegal. To become a true certified paralegal, you must have college education or a combination of a high school diploma and SEVEN years of paralegal experience.
The easy way to remember it is that schools do not offer certification – they offer certificates; having a certificate or degree can lead to being certified or attaining certification. In other words, the certificate or degree comes first. Types of Paralegal Certificate Programs. Most paralegal certificates are post-baccalaureate programs. In other words, they’re for students who already have a bachelor’s degree or, at the very least, an associate degree.
Length of Education. If one invests in an associate’s degree in paralegal work, the typical program should last about two years or 4 semesters. The students who do take a bachelor’s program in paralegal work will need to be in school for four years or 8 semesters. Much of the bachelor’s degree program will also be devoted to general education requirements. The master’s programs in paralegal work will be about two years or 4 semesters, similar to an associate’s degree. A certificate program should only last a few months or up to one semester.
A: To become a paralegal it is important that you fulfill all the requirements for this occupation. Firstly it is important that you acquire para legal qualifications from a law school. There are a number of courses and degree programs available in this area. A: To become a paralegal, you must have at least an associate-level degree in paralegal studies. There are many institutes offering paralegal degree programs at associate and bachelor level. These programs aim at providing students with knowledge of the law industry, legal terminology, and legal research
Apply Now! In addition to the Associate's Degree Program and the Bachelor's Degree Program, National Paralegal College offers a course of study leading to a certificate in paralegal studies. 
Lastly, depending on your employer, you'll need an associate's degree and a paralegal certificate or an associate's degree with a focus on paralegal studies. Most associate's degree programs, like the one offered at the National Paralegal College (see Resources below), takes about 7 months. 
A: To begin a career as a paralegal you need to have an associate degrees and certificates in paralegal studies. It will take you 2-3 years to complete you associate degrees, while a certificate course can take almost three to twenty-four months for completion. A: To become a paralegal, you must have at least an associate-level degree in paralegal studies. There are many institutes offering paralegal degree programs at associate and bachelor level. These programs aim at providing students with knowledge of the law industry, legal terminology, and legal research