Free thesaurus definition of words used to describe illnesses diseases and medical conditions from the Macmillan English Dictionary-a free English dictionary online with thesaurus and with pronunciation from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 
Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect your heart. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
Morbidity (from Latin morbidus, meaning sick, unhealthy) is a diseased state, disability, or poor health due to any cause. The term may be used to refer to the existence of any form of disease, or to the degree that the health condition affects the patient. The term disease broadly refers to any condition that impairs the normal functioning of the body. For this reason, diseases are associated with dysfunctioning of the body's normal homeostatic process.
the suffix for disease is-pathy in the medical dictionary. pathy. ex: pathogen (disease causing agent) or neuropathy (disease of the nervous system). There are a few suffixes for disease, like 'itis' which means inflammation; 'Oma' which means tumor; and 'osis' which means a bad medical condition. The medical suffix for disease or condition is -ism, as in Dwarfism. path(y) literally means disease. iasis is a condition of, and osis is any condition of. -pathy is the suffix meaning disease.
Medical condition. A medical condition is a broad term that includes all diseases, lesions and disorders. While the term medical condition generally includes mental illnesses, in some contexts the term is used specifically to denote any illness, injury, or disease except for mental illnesses. The term disease broadly refers to any condition that impairs the normal functioning of the body. For this reason, diseases are associated with dysfunctioning of the body's normal homeostatic process.
A disease is a particular abnormal condition, a disorder of a structure or function, that affects part or all of an organism. The causal study of disease is called pathology. Disease is often construed as a medical condition associated with specific symptoms and signs. The term disease broadly refers to any condition that impairs the normal functioning of the body. For this reason, diseases are associated with dysfunctioning of the body's normal homeostatic process.
Difference between condition and disease is very useful to know as, in the field of medicine, the term condition is used invariably for disease, which confuses the other people. Strictly speaking, there is some difference between the two words in terms of their meanings and connotations. The word condition is used in the sense of ‘state’ or ‘an illness or a medical problem’. On the other hand, the word disease is used in the sense of ‘sickness’. Filed Under: Words Tagged With: abstract noun of condition, condition, condition definition, condition meaning, condition means, conditioning, disease, disease definition, disease meaning, disease means, illness, sickness, State. Actually this article is false. They’re synonymous, and this is a common misconception
The term heart disease is often used interchangeably with the term cardiovascular disease.. Cardiovascular disease generally refers to conditions that involve narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.