An expansion tank or expansion vessel is a small tank used to protect closed (not open to atmospheric pressure) water heating systems and domestic hot water systems from excessive pressure. The tank is partially filled with air, whose compressibility cushions shock caused by water hammer and absorbs excess water pressure caused by thermal expansion.
Expansion Tanks. The expansion tank is a vital part of your car's cooling system and acts as an overflow reservoir catching the water/coolant mix that is forced from your radiator as it heats and builds pressure in the system. , cooling systems would explode under pressure or the coolant would be forced from the overflow tube on the radiator and leak onto the road. If your find yourself having to replace coolant too regularly then check your expansion tank and the rest of your system for leaks.
Firstly, the problem we are addressing with the tank is thermal expansion. When water is heated it expands. For example, water heated from 90°F to a thermostat setting of 140°F in a 40 gallon hot water heater will expand by almost one-half gallon. This is because when water is heated, its density decreases and its volume expands (see below). If you do not have a one way valve installed on the main water line, and therefore do not have a closed water system, you may still benefit from a water heater expansion tank.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A coolant expansion tank is a common component found in most automotive applications. They are typically connected by a tube to the radiator filler neck, and can serve as a place for excess coolant to be captured when the pressure release valve in the radiator cap gives way. 
That is an expansion tank installed on the water supply pipe to the water heater. Its purpose is to deal with thermal expansion of water as it heats up in the water heater-to prevent water pressure from getting too high. Water pressure in the system doesn't increase significantly. Most houses that have a check valve on the water service pipe-usually as part of a pressure-reducing valve installed just above or below the main water cutoff-do not have an expansion tank, since it wasn't required until recently.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The expansion tank retains coolant in a reservoir that's been forced out of the car's radiatior under pressure. As you run your car, the temprerature of the coolant circulating through the water jackets naturally increases causing increasing pressure in the cooling system. When the pressure builds to a high enough point, the radiatior cap allows that pressure to escape into the coolant reservoir through a small black rubber tube, called an overflow tube connected by the neck of the radiator to the expansion tank.
expansion tanks. , cooling systems would explode under pressure or the coolant would be forced from the overflow tube on the radiator and leak onto the road. If your find yourself having to replace coolant too regularly then check your expansion tank and the rest of your system for leaks.
Most of the coolant that is forced into the expansion tank returns to the radiator naturally after a few hours or when the engine is cold. If you had no expansion tank on your car, then the coolant that was released under pressure would spill out onto the road. When the pressure builds to a high enough point, the radiatior cap allows that pressure to escape into the coolant reservoir through a small black rubber tube, called an overflow tube connected by the neck of the radiator to the expansion tank.
The expansion tank retains coolant in a reservoir that's been forced out of the car's radiatior under pressure. As you run your car, the temprerature of the coolant circ … ulating through the water jackets naturally increases causing increasing pressure in the cooling system. 