Highclere Castle is around 5 miles (8kms) south of Newbury. There is a very limited local bus service (around 4 or 5 buses a day) between Newbury and the village of Highclere. In practise most people will want to take a taxi from Newbury Station taxi rank. Highclere Castle is only open for between 60 and 70 days each year. Two weeks over Easter, for each of the May Bank holidays, and for two months (Sunday to Thursday) over the summer months, June to September.
Combine a visit to Highclere Castle in the afternoon with a morning visit to Oxford, the city of dreaming spires, boasting one of the world's greatest, and oldest universities, as well as some of the finest architecture in Europe. n the early afternoon we make our way to the Grantham Family home, Highclere Castle. On arrival at Highclere Castle there will be time to enjoy the beautiful gardens. There will be time for lunch, or a snack in the Tearooms before entering Highclere Castle for an afternoon visit.
Tour 1: Downton Abbey Filming Locations and visit to Highclere Castle: Visit the filming sites associated with Downton Abbey in the morning, and enjoy an afternoon in Highclere Castle, the Grantham family home in the series. Includes Yew Tree Farm, plus a visit to Downton Village and Downton Church. n the early afternoon we make our way to the Grantham Family home, Highclere Castle. On arrival at Highclere Castle there will be time to enjoy the beautiful gardens. There will be time for lunch, or a snack in the Tearooms before entering Highclere Castle for an afternoon visit.
- Entry and tour of Highclere Castle and Gardens. - Visit Highclere Castle made famous by the Downton Abbey TV series. - Services of a professional tour guide throughout the day on a luxury touring coach. n the early afternoon we make our way to the Grantham Family home, Highclere Castle. On arrival at Highclere Castle there will be time to enjoy the beautiful gardens. There will be time for lunch, or a snack in the Tearooms before entering Highclere Castle for an afternoon visit.
Check the Flight distance between London and Highclere Castle in England.Travel time is an important point to know with the driving distance. Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from London to Highclere Castle in England. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distance from London to Highclere Castle in England. 
The Oxford and Highclere Castle tour has a courtesy pick up service. Pickups operate between 07:00 and 8:00, covering all the main hotel districts in Central London. The tour is scheduled to Leave London Victoria at 08:15, returning to London around 19:00. n the early afternoon we make our way to the Grantham Family home, Highclere Castle. On arrival at Highclere Castle there will be time to enjoy the beautiful gardens. There will be time for lunch, or a snack in the Tearooms before entering Highclere Castle for an afternoon visit.
' See top filming locations from the award-winning ‘Downton Abbey’ television series and several Harry Potter films on a full-day tour from London. This tour leaves London and heads to Highclere Castle in Hampshire – the real life Downton Abbey. Here you’ll get a real taste of Edwardian England, learning about popular characters from the much-loved period drama, as well as the real-life family who have owned the castle since the 17th century'. This is a must-do tour for any Downton Abbey fan! 1  Visit the real Downton Abbey, Highclere Castle, home of the Earl and Countess of Carnarvon, with Hampshire Ambassador, Phil Howe. 2  Visit Salisbury Cathedral and medieval City. 3  Visit Stonehenge Stone Circle.
Visit the majestic Highclere Castle, the real home of The Carnarvon family and fictitious home of The Granthams. Less than 30 miles from the suburbs of London is the magnificent Waddesdon Manor which has to be England’s best kept secret. Enjoy a tour of Stonehenge, followed by lunch in Lacock, a magical village frozen in time. Finish the day soaking up the atmosphere in majestic Bath.
Highclere is near Newbury in Berkshire, about 65 miles from central London via the M4 motorway. While there is no public transportation to the castle itself, it is possible to take a train to Newbury and a taxi for the six miles to the castle. And, in another example of art imitating life, it was Lady Almina who persuaded her husband to turn Highclere Castle into a Home Military Hospital for WWI soldiers in 1915 - another element of the unfolding Downton Abbey story.
Visiting Highclere Castle (Downton Abbey) From London. The TV series Downton Abbey has been a worldwide success triggering an explosion of interest in people wanting to visit Downton Abbey itself, in real life Highclere Castle. Highclere Castle is situated about 45 miles (72 kms) west of Central London. The nearest large town of any consequence is called Newbury connected to London by train. Highclere Castle is only open for between 60 and 70 days each year. Two weeks over Easter, for each of the May Bank holidays, and for two months (Sunday to Thursday) over the summer months, June to September.