The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of four main ligaments that help provide stability to the knee joint. It’s deep in the center of your knee and serves as an important restraint to excess front-to-back and rotational motion of your knee. Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries are very common in sports and other activities that require jumping, cutting and sudden changes of direction. The ACL is most often injured in non-contact episodes that involve:
The knee has 4 main LIGAMENTS that stabilise the knee. The Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) is one of the two 'crossing' ligaments within the knee. It attaches to the back of the thigh bone and the shin bone at the front and prevents excessive forward movement of the shin on the thigh bone. It also controls the knee during twisting or rotational movements. 
Topic Overview. An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone. Without treatment, the injured ACL is less able to control knee movement, and the bones are more likely to rub against each other
There are four ligaments in the knee that are prone to injury: 1  Mentioned above, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of the two major ligaments in the knee. 2  It connects the thigh bone to the shin bone in the knee. 3  ACL injuries are a common cause of disability in the knee. Two important ligaments in the knee, the ACL and posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), connect the femur or thigh bone with the tibia, one of the bones of the lower leg.
Sometimes other knee ligaments or parts of the knee are also injured. This includes cartilage such as the menisci, or bones in the knee joint, which can be broken. Your ACL can be injured if your knee joint is bent backward, twisted, or bent side to side. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone.
1 Mentioned above, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of the two major ligaments in the knee. 2  It connects the thigh bone to the shin bone in the knee. 3  ACL injuries are a common cause of disability in the knee. 4  In the U.S., 95,000 people get them every year. Two important ligaments in the knee, the ACL and posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), connect the femur or thigh bone with the tibia, one of the bones of the lower leg.
One of the most common knee injuries is an anterior cruciate ligament sprain or tear. Athletes who participate in high demand sports like soccer, football, and basketball are more likely to injure their anterior cruciate ligaments. They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament runs diagonally in the middle of the knee.
ACL stands for anterior cruciate ligament. It is one of two ligaments in the center of the knee (the other is the PCL), which helps connect the femur to the tibia. 
Top of page. Description. About half of all injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament occur along with damage to other structures in the knee, such as articular cartilage, meniscus, or other ligaments. Injured ligaments are considered sprains and are graded on a severity scale. Grade 1 Sprains. They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament runs diagonally in the middle of the knee.
ACL tears is the most common type of knee ligament tear and ACL injuries are also one of the most common ligament injuries in the human body. The incidence of ACL tears is increasing over the years due to many factors. Some research shows that young women are more prone to tears than their male counterparts. The ACL is one of four major ligaments inside the knee that is responsible for maintaining stability of the knee during certain activities. The Anterior Cruciate Ligament functions to maintain stability in activities such as turning, pivoting and twisting.