As a side note, a type of paint that is commonly confused with gouache is poster paint. While poster paint shares a somewhat similar consistency, it is typically made with much cheaper materials, and should not be considered a substitute for gouache.
Gouache (pronounced “gwosh,” in your Frenchiest accent please) is a type of paint which is centuries old, and yet relatively few people even know of its existence today. It’s a medium worth discovering, with characteristics of both acrylic and watercolor that can be used to create vibrant, luminous works of art.
Gouache [p] (/ɡuːˈaeʃ/ ; [ɡuːˈæʃ]), ˈɡwaʃ also spelled, guache is a type of paint in the category watermedia consisting of, pigment a binding (agent usually gum), arabic and sometimes added inert, material designed to be used in an opaque. Method it also refers to paintings that use this opaque. method
Definition of GOUACHE. 1. : a method of painting with opaque watercolors. 2. a: a picture painted by gouache b: the pigment used in gouache.
[ˈɡwaʃ]), also spelled guache, is a type of paint in the category watermedia consisting of pigment, a binding agent (usually gum arabic), and sometimes added inert material, designed to be used in an opaque method. It also refers to paintings that use this opaque method. The name derives from the Italian guazzo.
Gouache (gwash – rhymes with squash), also called opaque watercolor, is paint that is heavier than traditional transparent watercolors. Its use is centuries old. From the Italian “guazzo”, meaning “water paint”, it appears to go back some 800 years, used originally to illuminate manuscripts.
Watercolor (American English) or watercolour (Commonwealth and Ireland), also aquarelle (French loanword), a diminutive of the Latin for water, is a painting method in which the paints are made of pigments suspended in a water-based solution. Watercolor refers to both the medium and the resulting artwork.
A binding agent, usually gum arabic, is present, just as in watercolor. Gouache differs from watercolor in that the particles are larger, the ratio of pigment to water is much higher, and an additional, inert, white pigment such as chalk may also be present.
Gouache is opaque watercolor. It is manufactured in much the same way as transparent watercolor. While they both are comprised of pigment, wetting agent, and a binder, gouache additionally receives an inert white pigment and higher levels of concentrated pigment.