The metal in the name MOSFET is now often a misnomer because the previously metal gate material is now often a layer of polysilicon (polycrystalline silicon). Aluminium had been the gate material until the mid-1970s, when polysilicon became dominant, due to its capability to form self-aligned gates. In the case of an n-type switch, the body is connected to the most negative supply (usually GND) and the gate is used as the switch control. Whenever the gate voltage exceeds the source voltage by at least a threshold voltage, the MOSFET conducts. The higher the voltage, the more the MOSFET can conduct.
If the amp is not described as a mosfet or fet amplifier you can assume that it uses bi-polar transistors in the output stages. There are several transistors that are in the fet family HEXFET's and MOSFET's are two of the more popular types in use. I`ve been reading some posts about Pioneer Elite receivers that use MOSFET amplification and i want to know what is MOSFET and what are the differences between a normal amp. (normal amp, aka no tubes). I found some information but is very technical to me. Something like pros and cons of using MOSFET.
Best Answer: MOSFET is a type of amplifier technology that was introduced a few decades back. It is a type of efficient conductor used to build the amplifier. MOSFET amplifiers generally have better circuitry cooling and are stable at lower impedances. · just now. Report Abuse. a MOSFET is a type of transistor used in the amp to produce the power going to the speakers...they are very reliable and produce good quality sound. so MOSFET amp just means that the amp uses MOSFET's inside.
MOSFET Amplifier. Assume in the circuit above and the transistor is in saturation region, i.e., , then we have. The second equation relates the output to the input, as shown by the red segment of the curve in the plot above. 
MOSFET means metal oxide silicon field effect transistor. MOSFET's are usually used in the output stage of a power amplifier. Most small signal transistors are bi-polar transistors. The bi-polar transistor is also used in the output stage of power amplifiers. I`ve been reading some posts about Pioneer Elite receivers that use MOSFET amplification and i want to know what is MOSFET and what are the differences between a normal amp. (normal amp, aka no tubes). I found some information but is very technical to me. Something like pros and cons of using MOSFET.
Although the MOSFET is a four-terminal device with source (S), gate (G), drain (D), and body (B) terminals, the body (or substrate) of the MOSFET is often connected to the source terminal, making it a three-terminal device like other field-effect transistors. In the case of an n-type switch, the body is connected to the most negative supply (usually GND) and the gate is used as the switch control. Whenever the gate voltage exceeds the source voltage by at least a threshold voltage, the MOSFET conducts. The higher the voltage, the more the MOSFET can conduct.
MOSFET. A metal oxide field-effect transistor, or MOSFET, is an electronic component that amplifies and switches electrical currents. In the 1970s, electronics manufacturers made them with metal oxides, but more recently, silicon has been the material of choice. Photos.com/Photos.com/Getty Images. MOSFET audio power amplifiers deliver decent sound quality with high efficiency at power levels exceeding 1 kilowatt. MOSFET, specifically, is a type of transistor that works well as a switch and is widely used in computers. The efficiency comes from the electronic design approach, called class D, incorporating modern features to improve audio fidelity
An insulated-gate field-effect transistor or IGFET is a related term almost synonymous with MOSFET. The term may be more inclusive, since many MOSFETs use a gate that is not metal, and a gate insulator that is not oxide. Another synonym is MISFET for metal–insulator–semiconductor FET. In the case of an n-type switch, the body is connected to the most negative supply (usually GND) and the gate is used as the switch control. Whenever the gate voltage exceeds the source voltage by at least a threshold voltage, the MOSFET conducts. The higher the voltage, the more the MOSFET can conduct.