Platelets are blood components that help blood clot to stop blood loss. Red blood cells are released from the spleen into blood circulation to help compensate for blood loss. The spleen is a lymphatic organ that performs the valuable function of filtering blood. While it is an important organ, it can be removed when necessary without causing death. This is the case because other organs, such as the liver and bone marrow, can perform filtration functions in the body. While the spleen functions chiefly to filter blood, it also stores red blood cells and platelets. In instances where extreme bleeding occurs, red blood cells, platelets, and macrophages are released from the spleen. Macrophages help to reduce inflammation and destroy pathogens or damaged cells in the injured area.
Introduction. The circulatory system of mammals consists of 2 components, blood vessels and lymphatic vessels, which are counterparts that act in parallel but develop in series. Therefore, blood components such as red blood cells and platelets are never seen in lymphatic vessels. Aristotle recognized this and described lymphatic vessels as “vessels containing a colorless fluid.”.
The lymphatic system organs are the spleen, the thymus, lymph nodes & lymph vessels, tonsils, and peer's patches. Any organ that is not one of these is an organ not in the lym … phatic system, like the stomach, or gallbladder, or lungs. The adenoids, appendix, spleen and thymus are considered lymph organs because they contain hundreds of lymph nodes. These nodes contain thousands of monocytes and lymphocytes … which are white blood cells that protect the body from and defend the body against pathogens. 1 person found this useful. Answered.
It is similar in structure to a lymph node, and is the largest lymphatic organ in the body. The spleen contains two main types of tissue-white pulp and red pulp. White pulp is lymphatic tissue (material which is part of the immune system) mainly made up of white blood cells. This leaflet gives a brief overview of the spleen and its functions. The spleen is an organ about the size of a clenched fist found on the left-hand side of your upper abdomen. Its main functions are to filter your blood, create new blood cells and store platelets. It is also a key part of your body's immune system.
Lymphatic characteristics. One way system to the heart. Carries clean fluids back to the blood. Drains excess fluid from tissues. Lymph is a clear, watery fluid that contains protein molecules, salts, glucose, urea, and other substances — throughout the body. Removes antigens from the body and exposes antigens to the immune system
Click to read more below. The spleen is a brown, flat, oval-shaped lymphatic organ that filters and stores blood to protect the body from infections and blood loss. A tough connective tissue capsule surrounds the soft inner tissue of the spleen. Spongy inner tissue within the spleen contains many tiny blood vessels and hollow sinuses that store blood. The spleen can release its stored blood into circulation to replace blood lost during a traumatic injury.
Like the thymus, the spleen houses and aids in the maturation of immune system cells called lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are white blood cells that protect against foreign organisms that have managed to infect body cells. Lymphocytes also protect the body from itself by controlling cancerous cells. While the spleen functions chiefly to filter blood, it also stores red blood cells and platelets. In instances where extreme bleeding occurs, red blood cells, platelets, and macrophages are released from the spleen. Macrophages help to reduce inflammation and destroy pathogens or damaged cells in the injured area.