The Fair Deal was the name given to President Harry Truman's domestic program. Building on Roosevelt's New Deal, Truman believed that the federal government should guarantee e … conomic opportunity and social stability. New Frontier was the name attached to Kennedy's domestic package. The name came from a phrase in Kennedy 1960 nomination acceptance speech in which he said that America was st … anding on the verge of a new frontier. 6 people found this useful.
What did President Kennedy’s domestic agenda primarily fight? (1 point) unemployment communism Republicans poverty Can't decide if it is Communism or poverty :/. 
John F. Kennedy. John F. Kennedy was the 35th President of the United States (1961-1963), the youngest man elected to the office. On November 22, 1963, when he was hardly past his first thousand days in office, JFK was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, becoming also the youngest President to die
Multiple Choice 1. What did President Kennedy’s domestic agenda primarily fight? (1 point) unemployment communism Republicans poverty 2. Which of these was a result of the Equal Pay Act? (1 point) Employment practices became fairer. Best Answer: 1. What did President Kennedy’s domestic agenda primarily fight? (1 point) (0 pts) unemployment (0 pts) communism (0 pts) Republicans (1 pt) poverty 0 /1 point 2. Which of these was a result of the Equal Pay Act? (1 point) (1 p
A domestic agenda is basically the outline of a domestic policy.  This policy is a specific leader's policies toward education,  energy, health care, business, law enforceme … nt, and other issues  that affect the country they lead. New Frontier was the name attached to Kennedy's domestic package. The name came from a phrase in Kennedy 1960 nomination acceptance speech in which he said that America was st … anding on the verge of a new frontier. 6 people found this useful.
They went on to win the election and Johnson was sworn in as Vice President on January 20, 1961. Two years and ten months later, on November 22, 1963, Johnson succeeded Kennedy as President following his assassination. He ran for a full term in the 1964 election, winning by a large margin over Republican opponent Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater. 
How did Lyndon B. Johnson involve the US further in Vietnam and what effect did this have on his domestic agenda? Lyndon B Johnson, the 36th President of the U.S., helped to escalate American involvement in Vietnam by sending more troops to war. A domestic agenda is basically the outline of a domestic policy.  This policy is a specific leader's policies toward education,  energy, health care, business, law enforceme … nt, and other issues  that affect the country they lead. Jason Harmon. 11,183 Contributions.
President Kennedy's domestic agenda was primarily to fight poverty and move ahead in the space race with the Soviet Union. Anti-poverty legislation passed by Congress during his term included Social Security and minimum wage hikes, along with food stamps and the school lunch program. A domestic agenda is basically the outline of a domestic policy.  This policy is a specific leader's policies toward education,  energy, health care, business, law enforceme … nt, and other issues  that affect the country they lead. Jason Harmon. 11,183 Contributions.