PRECAUTIONS. A. General. Although allergic and hypersensitivity reactions have been observed with other polypeptide hormones, and rarely with multiple doses of Factrel (gonadorelin) , to date no such reactions have been reported following the administration of a single 100 mcg dose of Factrel (gonadorelin) . The response to Factrel (gonadorelin) may be blunted by phenothiazines and dopamine antagonists which cause a rise in prolactin. C. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility. Repetitive, high doses of Factrel (gonadorelin) may cause luteolysis and inhibition of spermatogenesis.
FACTREL is a sterile injectable solution of gonadorelin hydrochloride, and when used with LUTALYSE (dinoprost tromethamine) as part of a synchronization regimen, the drug can be used to synchronize estrous cycles to allow fixed time artificial insemination in lactating dairy cows. (FACTREL is already approved for the treatment of cystic ovaries in cattle.). The recommended intramuscular dosage is 100 to 200 mcg of gonadorelin (2 to 4 mL) per cow, used in estrous synchrony programs similar to the following: 1  Administer the first dose of FACTREL (2 to 4 mL) at Day 0.
Dosage Regimen. The recommended intramuscular dosage is 100 to 200 mcg of gonadorelin (2 to 4 mL) per cow, used in estrous synchrony programs similar to the following: 1  Administer the first dose of FACTREL (2 to 4 mL) at Day 0. (FACTREL is already approved for the treatment of cystic ovaries in cattle.). The recommended intramuscular dosage is 100 to 200 mcg of gonadorelin (2 to 4 mL) per cow, used in estrous synchrony programs similar to the following: 1  Administer the first dose of FACTREL (2 to 4 mL) at Day 0.
GONABREED is a sterile injectable solution of gonadorelin acetate, and when used with cloprostenol sodium as part of a synchronization regimen, the drug can be used to synchronize estrous cycles to allow for fixed time artificial insemination in lactating dairy cows and beef cows. GONABREED is a sterile solution of synthetic gonadorelin and is physiologically and chemically identical to endogenous gonadorelin. Endogenous gonadorelin, through release of LH, induces ovulation of dominant ovarian follicles present on the bovine ovary during the estrous cycle.
Gonadorelin may also be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. Once a medicine has been approved for marketing for a certain use, experience may show that it is also useful for other medical problems. Proceeds from website advertising help support our mission. Mayo Clinic does not endorse non-Mayo products and services.
1 Estrous synchrony indication: The recommended intramuscular dosage is 100 mcg of gonadorelin (1 mL) per cow, used in estrous synchrony regimens similar to the following: 2  Administer the first GONABREED injection (1 mL) at Time 0. GONABREED is a sterile solution of synthetic gonadorelin and is physiologically and chemically identical to endogenous gonadorelin. Endogenous gonadorelin, through release of LH, induces ovulation of dominant ovarian follicles present on the bovine ovary during the estrous cycle.
INDICATIONS. Factrel (gonadorelin) as a single injection is indicated for evaluating the functional capacity and response of the gonadotropes of the anterior pituitary. This single-injection test does not measure pituitary gonadotropic reserve, for which more prolonged or repeated administration may be required. 1 Venous blood samples should be drawn at -15 minutes and immediately prior to Factrel (gonadorelin) administration. 2  The LH baseline is obtained by averaging the LH values of the two samples. 3  Administer a bolus of 100 mcg of Factrel (gonadorelin) subcutaneously or intravenously.
Descriptions. Gonadorelin is a medicine that is the same as gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) that is naturally released from the hypothalamus gland. GnRH causes the pituitary gland to release other hormones (luteinizing hormone [LH] and follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH]). LH and FSH control development in children and fertility in adults. Gonadorelin is used to test how well the hypothalamus and the pituitary glands are working. Proceeds from website advertising help support our mission. Mayo Clinic does not endorse non-Mayo products and services.
Gonadorelin acetate may be produced under a variety of names, based on the country where the synthesized version of this peptide was produced. Potential branding for this peptide include lutenizing hormone-releasing factor dihydrochloride, like lutenizing hormone-releasing hormone,. When produced by an animal’s body gonadorelin acetate acts as a natural gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) which is primarily used as a means of synthesizing and releasing luteinizing hormone throughout the body from the anterior pituitary gland.