UTC+10. Guam to the natives also called Guahan is an island in the western North Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines. (Geographic coordinates: 13 28 N, 144 47 E). It is the largest and southernmost island in the Mariana Islands archipelago. Guam is a territory of the United States of America. It is considered to occupy a militarily strategic location, south of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. History [edit]. Guam was ceded to the US by Spain in 1898 after the Spanish-American War. Captured by Japan and its army in 1941, it was retaken by the US three years later. The military installations on the island are some of the more strategically important U.S. bases in the Western Pacific.
Guam is an island in the western Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines. (Geographic coordinates: 13 28 N, 144 47 E). It is the largest and southernmost island in the Mariana Islands archipelago. 
The island of Guam is approximately 30 miles in length with a variable width, ranging from 12 miles to 4 miles at its narrowest point. The largest island in Micronesia, Guam has a total land mass of 212 square miles, excluding reef formations. Shaped like a footprint, Guam was formed by the union of two volcanoes. The island has two basic geological compositions.
Guam is the largest island in Micronesia and was the only U.S.-held island in the region before World War II. Guam was captured by the Japanese on December 8, 1941, just hours after the attack on Pearl Harbor, and was occupied for two and a half years. During the occupation, the people of Guam were subjected to acts that included forced labor, torture, beheadings, and rape, and were forced to adopt the Japanese culture. Guam was subject to fierce fighting when U.S. troops recaptured the island on July 21, 1944, a date commemorated every year as Liberation Day.
Guam is an unincorporated and organized territory of the United States, and is located in the western Pacific Ocean. The island was inhabited by Chamorros some 4,000 years ago, and was discovered by Ferdinand Magellan in 1521. ATTRACTIONS: (a few major). Guam is a popular tourist destination, especially for Japanese travelers. The city of Tumon is a tourist hub, and boasts over 20 large hotels, various shopping centers, an indoor aquarium, Las Vegas style shows, and has seven public golf courses.
Background [edit]. Guam is the largest of the Marianas, 32 miles (52 km) long and 10 miles (16 km) wide. It had been a United States possession since its capture from Spain in 1898 until it was captured by the Japanese on 10 December 1941, following the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
The Chamorros, Guam's indigenous people, first populated the island approximately 4,000 years ago. The island has a long history of European colonialism, beginning with its discovery for Europe by Ferdinand Magellan during a Spanish expedition on March 6, 1521. During the occupation, the people of Guam were subjected to acts that included forced labor, torture, beheadings, and rape, and were forced to adopt the Japanese culture. Guam was subject to fierce fighting when U.S. troops recaptured the island on July 21, 1944, a date commemorated every year as Liberation Day.
Guam is the largest and southernmost of the Mariana Islands, and the largest island in Micronesia. Guam is one of the 17 Non-Self-Governing Territories under supervision of the Special Committee on Decolonization of the United Nations, whose goal is to bring the colonization to an end. During the occupation, the people of Guam were subjected to acts that included forced labor, torture, beheadings, and rape, and were forced to adopt the Japanese culture. Guam was subject to fierce fighting when U.S. troops recaptured the island on July 21, 1944, a date commemorated every year as Liberation Day.
Located approximately 3,300 miles West of Hawaii, 1,500 miles east of the Philippines and 1,550 miles South of Japan, the Island of Guam is the Western most territory of the United States and one of the leading tourist destinations in the Western Pacific. Guam is truly a tropical island paradise. Approximately 30 miles long and 4 to 9 miles wide, the Northern end of Guam is a plateau of rolling hills and cliffs rising to 600 feet above sea level. Waterfalls, rivers and bays abound throughout Guam 's central and southern areas.