Columnar jointing. Joints are fractures in rocks, and columnar joints are a specific type of joint pattern. Columnar joints contain aspects of both petrology and structural geology, but the discussion will address only the structural aspect. The length of the column is ordinarily perpendicular to the contact. Hill (1972) explains that the sides of the columns commonly exhibit horizontal markings called chisel marks. Where a column may have broken, one side exhibits a concave surface and the other a convex surface-this is called cup and ball jointing.
Columnar Jointing. Columnar jointing forms in lava flows, sills, dikes, ignimbrites (ashflow tuffs), and shallow intrusions of all compositions. Most columns are straight with parallel sides and diameters from a few centimeters to 3 m. Some columns are curved and vary in width. Columns can reach heights of 30 m. This photo is an early 20th century postcard of the Honeycomb at Giants Causeway. Entablature is probably the result of cooling caused by fresh lava being covered by water. The flood basalts probably damned rivers. When the rivers returned the water seeped down the cracks in the cooling lava and caused rapid cooling from the surface downward (Long and Wood, 1986).
Columnar jointing forms in lava flows, sills, dikes, ignimbrites (ashflow tuffs), and shallow intrusions of all compositions. Entablature is probably the result of cooling caused by fresh lava being covered by water. The flood basalts probably damned rivers. When the rivers returned the water seeped down the cracks in the cooling lava and caused rapid cooling from the surface downward (Long and Wood, 1986).
Cooling joints are columnar joints that result from the cooling of either lava from the exposed surface of a lava lake or flood basalt flow or the sides of a tabular igneous, typically basaltic, intrusion. They exhibit a pattern of joints that join together at triple junctions either at or about 120° angles. 1 Diagonal joints – Joints which typically occur as conjugate joint sets that trend oblique to the fold axes. 2  Strike joints – Joints which trend parallel to the strike of the axial plane of a fold. 3  Cross-strike joints – Joints which cut across
Columnar jointing in Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland. Columnar jointing is a geological structure where sets of intersecting closely spaced fractures, referred to as joints, result in the formation of a regular array of polygonal prisms, or columns. Columnar jointing occurs in many types of volcanic rocks and forms as the rock cools and contracts. Columnar jointing can occur in cooling lava flows and ashflow tuffs (ignimbrites), as well as in some shallow intrusions. The columns can vary from 3 meters to a few centimeters in diameter, and can be as much as 30 meters tall. They are typically parallel and straight, but can also be curved and vary in diameter
The geometry of joints refers to the orientation of joints as either plotted on stereonets and rose-diagrams or observed in rock exposures. In terms of geometry, three major types of joints, nonsystematic joints, systematic joints, and columnar jointing are recognized. Nonsystematic joints are joints that are so irregular in form, spacing, and orientation that they cannot be readily grouped into distinctive, through-going joint sets. 1 Diagonal joints – Joints which typically occur as conjugate joint sets that trend oblique to the fold axes. 2  Strike joints – Joints which trend parallel to the strike of the axial plane of a fold. 3  Cross-strike joints – Joints which cut across
Columnar joints are defined as parallel, prismatic columns in basaltic flows and sometimes other rocks, and this specific pattern is a result of cooling (Bates and Jackson, 1984). The columns are normally found in shallow intrusive or extrusive igneous rock bodies, generally, basaltic, sills, dikes and lava flows. The length of the column is ordinarily perpendicular to the contact. Hill (1972) explains that the sides of the columns commonly exhibit horizontal markings called chisel marks. Where a column may have broken, one side exhibits a concave surface and the other a convex surface-this is called cup and ball jointing.
There are several places in the United States where columnar jointing is exhibited, a few examples are, Devils Postpile in California, Devils Tower in Wyoming (pictured below), Sheepeaters Cliffs in Yellowstone National Park, and Palisades sill in New Jersey. The length of the column is ordinarily perpendicular to the contact. Hill (1972) explains that the sides of the columns commonly exhibit horizontal markings called chisel marks. Where a column may have broken, one side exhibits a concave surface and the other a convex surface-this is called cup and ball jointing.