Heart murmur facts. 1  Turbulent blood flow within the heart causes abnormal sounds called murmurs. 2  Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 3  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 4  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). 1 Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 2  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 3  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). 4  Holes in the septum or wall that divides the atrium or ventricles may cause a murmur.
1 Turbulent blood flow within the heart causes abnormal sounds called murmurs. 2  Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 3  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 1 Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 2  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 3  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). 4  Holes in the septum or wall that divides the atrium or ventricles may cause a murmur.
1 Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 2  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). 3  Holes in the septum or wall that divides the atrium or ventricles may cause a murmur. 4  A murmur is a physical finding and not a structural problem within the heart itself. 1 Most murmurs are functional, or physiologic, and are normal. 2  Some murmurs are due to abnormal function of the valves in the heart. 3  The valves may have narrowing (stenosis) or they may leak (regurgitation). 4
Some extracardiac problems can cause what is called a 'functional heart murmur'. A functional heart murmur may be due to anemia (low levels of red blood cells), hypoproteinemia (low protein levels in the blood), fever or infection, or by conditions such as pregnancy, obesity or emaciation. A cat with a heart murmur that is caused by a structural heart disease or an extracardiac problem will generally have some sort of symptoms or clinical signs that can be attributed to the disease. However, the clinical signs may be subtle and inapparent until the disease becomes advanced.
A heart murmur is an abnormal sound made by turbulent blood flow in the heart. It sounds like whooshing or swishing with each heartbeat. Some adults and many children have incidental heart murmurs that are harmless (benign) and are not caused by abnormalities in the heart. 
A heart murmur is caused by turbulent blood flow within the heart. Sometimes a murmur is determined to be 'innocent' or 'physiologic', while other times the murmur is determined to be pathologic or caused by disease. A dog with a heart murmur that is caused by a structural heart disease or an extracardiac problem will generally have some sort of symptoms or clinical signs that can be attributed to the disease.
A heart murmur may be heard by your vet when he or she listens to your cat's heart. A heart murmur is caused by turbulent blood flow within the heart or the large vessels exiting from the heart. This results in an abnormal noise which can be heard by your vet when listening with a stethoscope. 
A heart murmur is caused by turbulent blood flow within the heart. Sometimes a murmur is determined to be 'innocent' or 'physiologic', while other times the murmur is determined to be pathologic or caused by disease. A cat with a heart murmur that is caused by a structural heart disease or an extracardiac problem will generally have some sort of symptoms or clinical signs that can be attributed to the disease. However, the clinical signs may be subtle and inapparent until the disease becomes advanced.
There are two types of heart murmurs: innocent murmurs and abnormal murmurs. A person with an innocent murmur has a normal heart. This type of heart murmur is common in newborns and children. An abnormal heart murmur is more serious. In children, abnormal murmurs are usually caused by congenital heart disease. In adults, abnormal murmurs are most often due to acquired heart valve problems. Abnormal heart murmurs. The most common cause of abnormal murmurs in children is when babies are born with structural problems of the heart (congenital heart defects). Common congenital defects that cause heart murmurs include: Holes in the heart or cardiac shunts.
Some extracardiac problems can cause what is called a 'functional heart murmur'. A functional heart murmur may be due to anemia (low levels of red blood cells), hypoproteinemia (low protein levels in the blood), fever or infection, or by conditions such as pregnancy, obesity or emaciation. A dog with a heart murmur that is caused by a structural heart disease or an extracardiac problem will generally have some sort of symptoms or clinical signs that can be attributed to the disease.