Find sources: Quizlet – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR · free images (March 2015). Quizlet is an online learning tool created by high school sophomore Andrew Sutherland in Albany, California. It was originally conceived in October 2005 and released to the public in January 2007. As of January 2014, Quizlet has over 60 million user-generated flashcard sets and more than 20 million registered users. 
The cuticle plays an important role in the health of your nails. They provide a protective cover for the tissue that grows new cells that build the nails. As you know, your nails are constantly growing -- that's why you have to keep clipping them. The cuticle is the piece of skin that overlaps the hard nail and touches the lunula. You may be wondering what they do, or why you need them. If you get frequent manicures, they may be smooth and even, pushed back as far as they'll go.
In botany, plant cuticles are protective, hydrophobic, waxy coverings produced by the epidermal cells of leaves, young shoots and all other aerial plant organs. Cuticles minimize water loss and effectively reduce pathogen entry due to their waxy secretion. The cuticle both prevents plant surfaces from becoming wet and helps to prevent plants from drying out. Xerophytic plants such as cactus have very thick cuticles to help them survive in their arid climates.
I think the main reason they Quizlet has the appeal it does is because of the ease of use for teachers and the ability to create tests/quizzes from it, but also that for students it is not your typical flashcard. While quizlet is a useful tool for teachers, it is not a resource that I would use for every classroom. As an ESL teacher, I could create a series of flashcards to be used as a study tool for my students outside of the
You should see a white crescent called the lunula. The cuticle is the piece of skin that overlaps the hard nail and touches the lunula. You may be wondering what they do, or why you need them. If you get frequent manicures, they may be smooth and even, pushed back as far as they'll go. If not, they may be ragged and torn, or creeping up on the nail
The cuticle is secreted by the epidermis-a covering layer of cells, or epithelium. The epidermis consists of tall columnar cells. Beneath the epidermis is a basement layer of connective tissue, permeated by nerve cell processes, forming a sub-epidermal nerve network or plexus. 
Cuticle Infections. In caring for your cuticles, you need to protect against infection. In addition to causing pain, redness and even blisters around the cuticle, these infections can also lead to unsightly problems in the nails themselves, such as discoloration or abnormalities in the nail shape [source: MedlinePlus ]. Nail infections usually begin with the cuticle. When this delicate layer of skin surrounding the nail is damaged, bacteria and fungi -- two primary causes of cuticle infections -- can move into the living tissue. Yeast infections and dermatophyte infections are two common fungal problems that affect nails.
A cuticle /ˈkjuːtɪkəl/ , or cuticula, is a term used for any of a variety of tough but flexible, non-mineral outer coverings of an organism, or parts of an organism, that provide protection. Various types of cuticle are non-homologous, differing in their origin, structure, function, and chemical composition. The cuticle both prevents plant surfaces from becoming wet and helps to prevent plants from drying out. Xerophytic plants such as cactus have very thick cuticles to help them survive in their arid climates.
The cuticle is a multi-layer structure composed primarily of cutin, cutan, polysaccharides, lipids and waxes. On the inward-facing side of a leaf, the cuticle attaches to the epidermal plant cell walls, and on the outward-facing side, the cuticle forms a film or skin that covers the leaf surface. The cuticle also works with the stomata to help complete photosynthesis. After the stomata open and carbon dioxide enters the leaf, the cuticle protects the mesophyll layer, which contains the photosynthetic cells that receive and process the carbon dioxide to manufacture glucose.
Cutting them could open the door to infection or irritation. If you remove the cuticle, that space is wide open, and anything can get in there, Scher says. Cutting your cuticles can also lead to nail problems, such as ridges, white spots, or white lines. Though you may only think about your cuticles when you get a manicure, they're not just hanging out on your hands. They serve a purpose, and they need your TLC. Your cuticles are part of your skin. They sit atop your nails' growth matrix, which is the part of your nails that grows.