(Redirected from Ryokan (Japanese inn)). A room in the Tamatsukuri Onsen. Ryokan (Arima Onsen). A ryokan (旅館) is a type of traditional Japanese inn that originated in the Edo period (1603–1868), when such inns served travelers along Japan's highways. They typically feature tatami-matted rooms, communal baths, and other public areas where visitors may wear yukata and talk with the owner. For this reason, most ryokan ask guests to confirm the time they want to take their meals. Some ryokan have a communal dining area, but most serve meals in the guests' rooms. Ryokan which are likely to serve non-Japanese guests may also have a selection of Western food.
Staying at a typical ryokan is a traditional Japanese cultural experience, and it is not like staying at a Western-style hotel. For example ryokans do not have central heating and in the winter this means you will be staying in a room with a portable heater (kerosene, gas, electric). If you are staying at a ryokan with an “onsen” (hot spring baths), then there is an additional onsen tax of 150 yen per guest per night. The prices of our ryokans range from about 7,000 yen to 110,000 yen per guest plus tax. At a ryokan some of the following factors determining prices are: 1  room size.
Ryokan are difficult to find in Tokyo and other large cities because many are expensive compared to hotels, and Japanese people increasingly use hotels for urban tourism. Nonetheless, some major cities do have reasonably priced ryokan, with some costing as little as $40 a night. For this reason, most ryokan ask guests to confirm the time they want to take their meals. Some ryokan have a communal dining area, but most serve meals in the guests' rooms. Ryokan which are likely to serve non-Japanese guests may also have a selection of Western food.
Difference between a Western-style hotel and a Japanese Ryokan. The greatest difference between a Western-style hotel and a Japanese ryokan is the fee system, with the ryokan charging for 'one night's stay with two meals'. The two meals are the evening meal on the day of your arrival, and breakfast served the following morning. At the majority of ryokans, these meals are served in the guestroom. At some ryokans, the meals are taken in a large dining room or a private room specially for the purpose, but the 'heya-shoku' (dining in the guestroom) is the most common style of eating at Japanese ryokans.
Ryokan or Ryōkan may refer to: 1  Ryokan (inn) , a type of traditional Japanese inn usually providing meals as part of the stay. 2  Ryōkan (1758–1831), a Zen Buddhist monk and poet who lived in Japan. 1 Ryokan (inn) , a type of traditional Japanese inn usually providing meals as part of the stay.
A typical ryokan is an Japanese-style inn. Like a Western-style inn, maintaining the special, atmosphere and appearance is more important than providing the latest modern conveniences. A ryokan is for travelers who wish to experience Japanese culture and enjoy the comforts of Japanese hospitality and service. If you are staying at a ryokan with an “onsen” (hot spring baths), then there is an additional onsen tax of 150 yen per guest per night. The prices of our ryokans range from about 7,000 yen to 110,000 yen per guest plus tax. At a ryokan some of the following factors determining prices are: 1  room size.
There are many different kinds of ryokan, varying greatly in terms of size, cost and style. Some ryokan are small, family run establishments with just a few rooms, while others are large, hotel-like facilities with hundreds of rooms. Ryokan also range from no-frills, budget varieties to costly establishments catering to the very wealthy. Also keep in mind that ryokan stays usually include an elaborate dinner in the evening, followed by breakfast the next morning. Meals are typically kaiseki ryori (Japanese haute cuisine) that feature local and seasonal specialties.
Ryokan is traditional Japanese style inn. Many of them keep architecture of the bilding, design of rooms, customs and rools for many years, what makes you feel magic old Japanese atmosphere. Most of the Ryokans is family business and they keep runing if for many generations from father to the son. 
A 'ryokan’ is a traditional Japanese style inn and more than 50,000 can be found in Japan. It is common for ryokan to have ‘tatami’ flooring, a traditional rice straw matting.　Guests sleep on ‘futon’bedding that will be set out by a maid after dinner. 