A polypeptide is a long, continuous, and unbranched peptide chain. Hence, peptides fall under the broad chemical classes of biological oligomers and polymers, alongside nucleic acids, oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, etc. The covalent chemical bonds are formed when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another. The shortest peptides are dipeptides, consisting of 2 amino acids joined by a single peptide bond, followed by tripeptides, tetrapeptides, etc.
Building a polypeptide: Polymers are chains of subunits, monomers, linked together by chemical bonds. The bond between two amino acids is known as a peptide bond. Two amino acids, joined together by a peptide bond, are known as a dipeptide. An amino acid polymer is known as a polypeptide. A polypeptide can be composed of 20 different possible monomers that can, in theory, be linked together in any imaginable order. The peptide bond has a number of characteristics that are critical in determining how polypeptides behave. Although drawn as a single bond, the peptide bond behaves more like a double bond. While there is free rotation around a single bond, rotation around a peptide bond is constrained.
Proteins are composed of α-amino acids linked together by peptide bonds into polypeptide chains. An amino acid is characterized by an amino group (-NH2) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) linked to a carbon, known as the α-carbon. Also attached to the α-carbon is a H and various R-groups or side-chains. The peptide bond has a number of characteristics that are critical in determining how polypeptides behave. Although drawn as a single bond, the peptide bond behaves more like a double bond. While there is free rotation around a single bond, rotation around a peptide bond is constrained.
The primary structure of a polypeptide of protein determines its secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structures. Primary Structure. The primary structure of polypeptides and proteins is the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain with reference to the locations of any disulfide bonds. Quaternary Structure. Quaternary structure is used to describe proteins composed of multiple subunits (multiple polypeptide molecules, each called a 'monomer'). Most proteins with a molecular weight greater than 50,000 consist of two or more noncovalently-linked monomers.
The tertiary structure of a polypeptide or protein is the three-dimensional arrangement of the atoms within a single polypeptide chain. For a polypeptide consisting of a single conformational folding pattern (e.g., an alpha helix only), the secondary and tertiary structure may be one and the same. Quaternary Structure. Quaternary structure is used to describe proteins composed of multiple subunits (multiple polypeptide molecules, each called a 'monomer'). Most proteins with a molecular weight greater than 50,000 consist of two or more noncovalently-linked monomers.
Length: 1  A polypeptide is a single linear chain of many amino acids, held together by amide bonds. 2  A protein is one or more polypeptide (more than about 50 amino acids long). 3  An oligopeptide consists of only a few amino acids (between two and twenty). The covalent chemical bonds are formed when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another. The shortest peptides are dipeptides, consisting of 2 amino acids joined by a single peptide bond, followed by tripeptides, tetrapeptides, etc.
If the amine and carboxylic acid functional groups in amino acids join together to form amide bonds, a chain of amino acid units, called a peptide, is formed. A simple tetrapeptide structure is shown in the following diagram. 
The alpha helix (α-helix) is a common secondary structure of proteins and is a righthand-coiled or spiral conformation (helix) in which every backbone N-H group donates a hydrogen bond to the backbone C=O group of the amino acid four residues earlier (hydrogen bonding). Side view of an α-helix of alanine residues in atomic detail. Two hydrogen FOR the same peptide group are highlighted in magenta; the H to O distance is about 2 A (å.0 20). Nm the protein chain runs upward; here that, is Its-n terminus is at the bottom and Its-c terminus at the. top