Geography. Uganda, twice the size of Pennsylvania, is in East Africa. It is bordered on the west by Congo, on the north by the Sudan, on the east by Kenya, and on the south by Tanzania and Rwanda. 
Kampala is the capital and largest city of Uganda. The city is divided into five boroughs that oversee local planning: Kampala Central Division, Kawempe Division, Makindye Division, Nakawa Division, and Lubaga Division. The city is coterminous with Kampala District. Kampala was originally built on seven hills, but as its size has increased, it has expanded to more hills than seven. The original seven hills are: 1  The first hill in historical importance is Kasubi Hill, which is where the Kasubi Tombs of the previous Kabaka of Buganda are located.
Understand [edit]. The people of Kampala, and Ugandans in general, are very kind and friendly and are very approachable. Kampala, with a population of approximately 2.5 million, is by far the largest city in Uganda. It is not yet completely overwhelmed with traffic and sprawl like Nairobi and Lagos. Markets [edit]. There are a variety of markets throughout Kampala, where you can buy things ranging from clothing and shoes, to fruits and vegetables. Vendors make the prices higher for expatriates, so if you want cheaper prices it is best to go with a local who can make sure the prices are lowered.
Kampala is also known for its nightlife, which includes several casinos, notably Casino Simba in the Garden City shopping centre, Kampala Casino, and Mayfair Casino. Port Bell on the shores of Lake Victoria is 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) away. Kampala was originally built on seven hills, but as its size has increased, it has expanded to more hills than seven. The original seven hills are: 1  The first hill in historical importance is Kasubi Hill, which is where the Kasubi Tombs of the previous Kabaka of Buganda are located.
Kampala is the capital city of Uganda in East Africa. Over 1 million people live in Kampala making it Uganda's largest city. Kampala was the capital of the Bugandan Kingdom several hundred years ago. Today, Kampala is a modern looking city, with outlying townships spreading far beyond the original seven hills the city was built upon.
Basic Facts About Kampala. Kampala is the capital city of Uganda in East Africa. Over 1 million people live in Kampala making it Uganda's largest city. Kampala was the capital of the Bugandan Kingdom several hundred years ago. Today, Kampala is a modern looking city, with outlying townships spreading far beyond the original seven hills the city was built upon.
detailed map of Kampala and near places. Welcome to the Kampala google satellite map! This place is situated in Kampala City Council, Kampala, Uganda, its geographical coordinates are 0° 18' 56 North, 32° 33' 56. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Kampala. See Kampala photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Kampala in Uganda. Kampala hotels map. The location of each Kampala hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Kampala hotel map is available where all hotels in Kampala are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
It is bordered to the east by Kenya, to the north by South Sudan, to the west by the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to the southwest by Rwanda, and to the south by Tanzania. Uganda is the world's second most populous landlocked country after Ethiopia. The southern part of the country includes a substantial portion of Lake Victoria, shared with Kenya and Tanzania, situating the country in the African Great Lakes region. Uganda takes its name from the Buganda kingdom, which encompasses a large portion of the south of the country including the capital Kampala.
1 The seventh is Kampala Hill (Old Kampala), where Frederick Lugard, a British mercenary in the pay of the Imperial British East Africa Company, who arrived in Uganda in the 1890s, built his fort on top of the hill. Kampala was originally built on seven hills, but as its size has increased, it has expanded to more hills than seven. The original seven hills are: 1  The first hill in historical importance is Kasubi Hill, which is where the Kasubi Tombs of the previous Kabaka of Buganda are located.
Kampala. Location: Kampala District is situated in the heart of Kampala. Its bordered by Mukono District in the East and Wakiso to the south, north and west. Population: the district has a total human population of close to 1.2 million. Main Town: it is a modernized city and the capital of Uganda. Mulago hospital is the only existing referral hospital in Uganda. it is located 3.5km north east of the heart of Kampala City Center, and was initially a treatment center that started in 1913, and later built during the1950s.