Cucumbers. Sea Cucumbers are best kept in reef or invertebrate aquariums. Water quality must be maintained at the highest levels, and care must be taken with any water intakes/overflows to ensure that the Sea Cucumber cannot become attached. Information Center: 
Most sea cucumbers are about 20 cm in length, while some adults may not grow to be over a centimeter. Sea cucumbers enjoy the life-span of five to ten years. Despite at first appearing as a plant or mineral on the ocean floor the sea cucumber, or Holothuroid, is an animal. The sea cucumber is in the Kingdom Animalia, Phylum Echinodermata, Subphylum Asterozoa (with sea urchins, sand dollars, sea stars, and basket stars). Many of these sea cucumbers feed on or in the sand beneath them. Reef dwelling sea cucumbers are most often suspension feeders, as currents continually bring in food. One very important feature of the sea cucumber is the calcareous ring that encircles the throat.
Like all echinoderms, sea cucumbers have an endoskeleton just below the skin, calcified structures that are usually reduced to isolated microscopic ossicles (or sclerietes) joined by connective tissue. In some species these can sometimes be enlarged to flattened plates, forming an armour. The harvested product is variously referred to as trepang, beche-bêche-de mer or. Balate sea cucumbers serve a useful role in the marine ecosystem as they help recycle, nutrients breaking down detritus and other organic matter after which bacteria can continue the degradation. process
Sea cucumbers are cylinder, or cucumber, hence the name-shaped invertebrate animals that live in many different ranges of the ocean. They can be found from warm tropical waters to cold deep sea trenches. They are most diverse to tropical shallow-water coral reefs. Many of these sea cucumbers feed on or in the sand beneath them. Reef dwelling sea cucumbers are most often suspension feeders, as currents continually bring in food. One very important feature of the sea cucumber is the calcareous ring that encircles the throat.
Sea Cucumber. Scientific Name: Class Holothuroidea. Description: Sea cucumbers are part of a larger animal group called Echinodermata, which also contains starfish and sea urchins. Their body shape is similar to a cucumber, but they have small tentacle-like tube feet that are used for locomotion and feeding. 
Protect your cucumbers from cucumber beetle larvae. Cucumber worms, the larvae of the cucumber beetle, are yellowish-white in color with a brown head and rear, and three pairs of legs. Cucumber worms can grow up to 3/4 inches long. They attack cucumber plants by eating the roots and burrowing in young plant stems, which causes the plant to wilt and die.
Sea Cucumber. The sea cucumber is a marine animal (not plant) that is an echinoderm from the Holothuroidea class. It has leathery skin, an elongated body like a cucumber, and a single, branched gonad. They are found worldwide on the sea floor. Like any other echinoderm, sea cucumbers have an endoskeleton that is below the skin. A remarkable characteristic is that the catch collagen that forms on their body walls. This can be loosened and tightened when the sea cucumber wants it to be, and can be used to squeeze through a small gap.
Protect cucumber plants susceptible to cucumber worms before they bloom by using a garden fleece, also called a floating row cover, to protect individual plants. Garden fleeces are made of lightweight fabric that allows the sun, rain and air to reach plants while protecting them from cucumber beetles and other pests. Cucumber worms can grow up to 3/4 inches long. They attack cucumber plants by eating the roots and burrowing in young plant stems, which causes the plant to wilt and die.