Persian cucumbers are very similar to English cucumbers. So similar, in fact, that they are pretty much visually indistinguishable from fresh, not-wrapped-in-plastic English cukes, except that they come in a greater range of lengths—some shorter, some longer, and sometimes have slightly bumpy skin like a Kirby.
Persian cucumbers are perhaps the most historic cucumber, their origins lying in the Fertile Crescent where North Africa meets the Middle East. Their cultivation evolved from a kibbuts in North Israel. Kibbutz are traditionally agricultural communities whose economy is reliant on the crops they collectively raise.
Persian cucumbers are commonly used as a slicing cucumber for salads and appetizers, although their crisp texture also makes them suitable for pickling. Because they blend well with a variety of spices, herbs and vegetables, they work well in dressings, dips and salsas.
Shares & Saves. Save. The Persian cucumber (Cucumis sativus Persian) is a variety of burpless cucumber, meaning its consumption is less likely to cause gastrointestinal upset than other types. This cucumber is also small, sweet and essentially seedless.
Although Persian cucumbers enjoy the classification as a burpless variety, their culinary utilities are much more versatile, as they can be treated as a slicer and even a pickling cucumber out of both choice and necessity.
Persian cucumbers deliver a trifecta of qualities that set them apart from what we know as common garden cucumbers. Their skin is smooth, thin and perfectly textured, their flesh is crisp, sweet, succulent, and void of developed seeds. They have an amazing capacity to retain water and to remain cool.
Growth Habit. Like other members of the gourd family, the Persian cucumber grows as a creeping vine that appreciates a trellis or other vertical support to increase spread as well as reduce the risk of powdery mildew and other soil-borne diseases.
Consider using Persian cucumbers as a salad ingredient, for salsas and creamy dressings. They are a great cooling ingredient in hot dishes, make a perfect accoutrement to roasted fish and lamb, pair well with mint, chiles, mustard, cumin, citrus and fresh cheeses, such as chevre, feta and cotija.