Sponsored Links. Privacy Policy. At what-does-my-name-mean.org, the privacy of our visitors is of extreme importance to us. This privacy policy document outlines the types of personal information is received and collected by what-does-my-name-mean.org and how it is used. Log Files. Like many other Web sites, what-does-my-name-mean.org makes use of log files.
A privacy policy is a statement or a legal document (in privacy law) that discloses some or all of the ways a party gathers, uses, discloses, and manages a customer or client's data. In the case of a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it collects. It informs the client what specific information is collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners, or sold to other firms or enterprises.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: privacy policy (Noun). The set of policies that an organization or party uses to collect or hide information about an end user or customer of the organization, particularly where it concerns private information. In the case of a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it collects. It informs the client what specific information is collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners, or sold to other firms or enterprises.
The exact contents of a privacy policy will depend upon the applicable law and may need to address requirements across geographical boundaries and legal jurisdictions. In the case of a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it collects. It informs the client what specific information is collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners, or sold to other firms or enterprises.
Welcome to the Google Privacy Policy. When you use Google services, you trust us with your information. This Privacy Policy is meant to help you understand what data we collect, why we collect it, and what we do with it. This is important; we hope you will take time to read it carefully. 
By RFE/RL. Internet giant Google has implemented a new privacy policy, despite concerns by European Union experts and Internet users, under which it will compile and store user information from all of its popular services and use that data to individually target advertising to users. 
You should always read the privacy policy so that you know what personal data will be kept when you visit or signup. 4 people found this helpful. If want to be sure your private information that you may share on a website, will stay confidential, you must take the time to read their privacy policy. 
Part of the Web services, SOA glossary: A privacy policy is a document that explains how an organization handles any customer, client or employee information gathered in its operations. Most websites make their privacy policies available to site visitors. Often, the first statement found in an online privacy policy is one to the effect that, by visiting the web page (which you are doing if you’re reading the policy), you agree to the details of the site’s privacy policy.
The noun PRIVACY has 2 senses: 1. the quality of being secluded from the presence or view of others. 2. the condition of being concealed or hidden. Familiarity information: PRIVACY used as a noun is rare. 
Privacy policy is a statement or a legal document that discloses some or all of the ways a party gathers, uses, discloses and manages a customer or client's data. In the case of a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it collects. It informs the client what specific information is collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners, or sold to other firms or enterprises.