Of or relating to both arm and head. Example sentences. 1  Secondary to dissection, narrowing of the trunk arteries of the aortic arch was found in 23 of the autopsied cases involving one or more main branches, most frequently the brachiocephalic and carotid arteries. 1 In another variation, a vein runs from the left brachiocephalic or from the left superior intercostal vein through the ‘vestigial fold’ (of Marshall) of the pericardium to the vein of Marshall to the coronary sinus.
Medical Definition of BRACHIOCEPHALIC ARTERY. : a short artery that arises from the arch of the aorta and divides into the carotid and subclavian arteries of the right side—called also brachiocephalic trunk, innominate artery. Tweet. : a short artery that arises from the arch of the aorta and divides into the carotid and subclavian arteries of the right side —called also innominate artery.
The brachiocephalic artery is a branch off of the aortic arch and send blood to the head, neck, and right arm. It comes off the right side of the aortic arch (right side from anatomical position, or the patient's perspective) a … nd immediately splits into the subclavian artery and the common carotid artery.
At this point, it divides, giving rise to the common carotid artery, which carries blood to the right side of the neck and head, and the right subclavian artery, which leads to the right ... Click to read more below. The brachiocephalic trunk is another word for the brachiocephalic artery. The brachiocephalic artery supplies blood to the tissues of the brain and the head. It is the first branch of the aortic arch and rises up to a point near the junction of the sternum (breast bone) and the right clavicle (collarbone). 
There is no brachiocephalic artery for the left side of the body. The left common carotid, and the left subclavian artery, come directly off the aortic arch. However, there are two brachiocephalic veins. The innominate artery usually gives off no branches, but occasionally a small branch, the thyreoidea ima, arises from it. Other times, it gives off a thymic or bronchial branch. It varies greatly in size, and appears to compensate for deficiency or absence of one of the other thyroid vessels.
Definition of BRACHIOCEPHALIC ARTERY. : a short artery that arises from the arch of the aorta and divides into the carotid and subclavian arteries of the right side —called also innominate artery. ADVERTISEMENT. Tweet. : a short artery that arises from the arch of the aorta and divides into the carotid and subclavian arteries of the right side —called also innominate artery.
The left and right brachiocephalic veins (or innominate veins) in the upper chest are formed by the union of each corresponding internal jugular vein and subclavian vein. This is at the level of the sternoclavicular joint. The left brachiocephalic vein is usually longer than the right. These great vessels merge to form the superior vena cava behind the junction of the first costal cartilage with the manubrium sternum. The brachiocephalic veins are the major veins returning blood to the superior vena cava.
1 Brachiaria. 2  brachio-. 3  brachiocephalic. 4  brachiocephalic (arterial) trunk. 5  brachiocephalic arterial trunk. 6  brachiocephalic arteritis. 7  brachiocephalic artery. 8  brachiocephalic lymph nodes. 9  brachiocephalic trunk. 10  brachiocephalic vein. Central vestibular disease in a blue and gold macaw (Ara avavauna) ... by Grosset, Claire; Guzman, David Sanchez-Migallon; Keating, M. Kelly; Gaffney, Patricia M.; Lowenstine / Journal of Avian Medicine and Surgery.
The brachiocephalic artery (or brachiocephalic trunk or innominate artery) is an artery of the mediastinum that supplies blood to the right arm and the head and neck. The innominate artery usually gives off no branches, but occasionally a small branch, the thyreoidea ima, arises from it. Other times, it gives off a thymic or bronchial branch. It varies greatly in size, and appears to compensate for deficiency or absence of one of the other thyroid vessels.