[ syll. mo-nae, mon-ae ] The baby boy name Monae is also used as a girl name. Monae's origin is French. Monae is a variant of the name Monet (English). Monae is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. 
You have psychic power. You can carry on for others with joy. You have a receptive nature and may bear burdens for others. You are pragmatic, thorough, strong-willed, practical and stubborn at times. You are hard working, often martyr to duty. You like home and security above all.You are frank, methodical and believe in law, system and order. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME
Meaning: The American name Monae means-a form of Monet. Rating: 
[ syll. mo-nae, mon-ae ] The baby girl name Monae is also used as a boy name. Monae is of French origin and it is used mainly in English. Monae is a form of the English and French Monet. Monae is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
My name is janelle and it always seemed so proper so now it's jenny but I'm happy that when I'll be an adult I'll be able to go back to janelle were my name is proper and sounds professional also I've heard that the meaning of the name is darlingso that's perfect for a little baby girl! Personal experiences with the name Janelle: | Edit. This is my name and I've always loved it! I get many compliments and love the nickname options, I recommend it to any little girl! My parents named my Janelle, and I have never liked it. It always seemed too formal, so as an adult I now go by Jenna.
Origin and meaning of Monae. 5 5. The meaning of Monae is  Blessed protector  and  Home . Its origin is  Modern English variant of the French name Monet . Monae is a form of Monet and is generally pronounced like  MO nay . Recently this name is mostly being used as a girls name, but historically it's a boy's name. Last year it ranked 3,136th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Monae is a modern variant of Monet, most likely derived for easier pronunciation.
The highest recorded use of the name Monae was in 1998 with a total of 113 babies. According to the 1996 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Monae ranks #107 in popularity as a baby girl's name in District of Columbia. Imagine that, 11 babies in District of Columbia have the same name as you in 1996. From 1880 to 2014, the Social Security Administration has recorded 1,860 babies born with the name Monae in the United States. That's more than enough Monaes to occupy the territory of Christmas Island (Australia) with an estimated population of 1,462 (as of June 30, 2010).