Spectrophotometer. instrument used to determine the intensity of light of a wavelength transmitted by a solution. Provides measuring the amount of material in the solution. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
A spectrophotometer is an instrument which is used to measure the intensity of electromagnetic radiation at different wavelengths. Important features of spectrophotometers are spectral band with and the range of absorption or reflectance measurement. 1 Then, add the solute which would be the blank for the experiment. 2  It is important not to add water to the blank so that it won’t affect the accuracy of the results. 3  As a next step, the spectrophotometer is set to the desired wavelength. 4  Insert the blank cuvette, making sure that the arrow is aligned each time.
Medical Definition of SPECTROPHOTOMETER. : a photometer for measuring the relative intensities of the light in different parts of a spectrum. — spec·tro·pho·to·met·ric \-trə-ˌfōt-ə-ˈme-trik\ adjective. — spec·tro·pho·to·met·ri·cal·ly \-tri-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. 
Spectrophotometry is a quantitative measurement of the reflection or transmission properties of a material as a function of wavelength. It is more specific than the common term electromagnetic spectroscopy which deals with visible light near ultraviolet and near infra-red. 1 Then, add the solute which would be the blank for the experiment. 2  It is important not to add water to the blank so that it won’t affect the accuracy of the results. 3  As a next step, the spectrophotometer is set to the desired wavelength. 4  Insert the blank cuvette, making sure that the arrow is aligned each time.
In chemistry, spectrophotometry is the quantitative measurement of the reflection or transmission properties of a material as a function of wavelength. An example of an experiment in which spectrophotometry is used is the determination of the equilibrium constant of a solution. A certain chemical reaction within a solution may occur in a forward and reverse direction where reactants form products and products break down into reactants.
A spectrophotometer is one of the scientific instruments commonly found in many research and industrial laboratories. Spectrophotometers are used for research in physics, molecular biology, chemistry, and biochemistry labs. They measure the absorbance, which is known as the optical density (OD), on a spectrophotometer. One can tell from the OD whether the bacteria are actively dividing or whether they are starting to die. Spectrophotometers use a light source to shine an array of wavelengths through a monochromator. This device then transmits a narrow band of light, and the spectrophotometer compares the light intensity passing through the sample to that passing through a reference compound
Spectrophotometers. Spectrophotometers measure light intensity as a function of wavelength and are commonly used to measure the concentration of a compound in an aqueous solution. Depending on the type of spectrophotometer, different wavelengths of light can be analyzed. UV-Vis spectrophotometers (ultraviolet visible) measure in the UV and visible regions of the electromagnetic spectrum (190 to 380 nm and 380 to 760 nm, respectively).
A spectrophotometer is an instrument that can pass light of a single wavelength through a solution and measure the amount that passes through. First, the spectrophotometer must be zeroed by passing light of the chosen wavelength (500 nm for example) through a blank containing only the solvent. 