When the credit bureaus calculate your credit score, the number of credit cards you have is a very minor part of the equation. As Investopedia explains [emphasis mine]: Your payment history makes up 35% of your FICO score, while your total debt owed amounts to 30% of your final FICO score. The number of credit cards you have does make a difference for one of the biggest factors: Your total debt owed, as a percentage of your credit limit. Since every new credit card increases your total credit limit, adding another card decreases your debt-to-credit ratio (as long as you don't add more debt).
For example, if you owe $500 on one credit card with a $1,000 limit (50% utilization) and open a new credit card with a $4,000 limit, that would make your overall utilization 10% ($500 out of $5,000)—much better in lenders' and credit scoring agencies' eyes. The number of credit cards you have does make a difference for one of the biggest factors: Your total debt owed, as a percentage of your credit limit. Since every new credit card increases your total credit limit, adding another card decreases your debt-to-credit ratio (as long as you don't add more debt).
The percent of debt you carry on each credit card matters as well, but that's why having at least three credit cards can help you. If you use more than 20% of your card's limit every month, you can spread the balance around to protect your credit score. The number of credit cards you have does make a difference for one of the biggest factors: Your total debt owed, as a percentage of your credit limit. Since every new credit card increases your total credit limit, adding another card decreases your debt-to-credit ratio (as long as you don't add more debt).
1 Whether you have three credit cards or 23, high credit card balances hurt your credit score. 2  The higher your balances, the higher your risk of defaulting is in the eyes of lenders and credit bureaus, so this can hurt your credit score quite a bit. 1 Your credit score will suffer if you're late making a payment. 2  It won't matter how many credit cards you have or how long you've had them. 3  Making payments on time accounts for 35 percent of your credit score (the biggest part).
TravelSort reader Brian writes:  How many Chase cards can you have? I'm thinking of applying for the Ink Plus, now that the minimum spend is $5000 instead of $10,000 to get the 50,000 bonus points, but wondering if I'll get approved since I already have 6 Chase cards within the past 2 years. 
The answer is there is no hard limit on how many credit cards you can have. Each credit card issuer will probably have some sort of limit on how many personal cards you can have, and how many you can have in the name of each business you own.
That's the comparison between the debt you have and the total credit you have access to -- and it's a factor in determining your credit score. For example, say you currently have $2,000 in overall credit card debt and a combined total of $10,000 available on all your credit card lines. But then the bank closes a card with a zero balance and a $5,000 line of credit, cutting your total available credit in half. That leaves you with much more debt compared to your total available credit ($2,000 compared to $5,000, in this example) -- increasing that utilization ratio. Still, just because they're easier to get, that doesn't mean that you need them. Yes, you can get an excellent FICO score if you have only one credit card -- or no credit cards. The key is how you use the credit that you are granted, says Craig Watts, spokesman for FICO, in an email.
The average number of credit cards Americans own is three to four. According to Credit Karma, there is a correlation between having a high credit score (800+) and having more credit cards (7), compared to people with lower scores. The number of credit cards you have does make a difference for one of the biggest factors: Your total debt owed, as a percentage of your credit limit. Since every new credit card increases your total credit limit, adding another card decreases your debt-to-credit ratio (as long as you don't add more debt).
Barclaycard. There is no hard limit on the amount of credit cards you can have with Barclaycard. Most people find that they will struggle to get approved for more than one card with Barclaycard every six months, but this really depends on your individual situation. Chase doesn’t have a hard limit on the amount of credit cards you can have with them, they usually just restrict you by the amount of total credit you have available to you (which will vary person to person).