Etymology & Historical Origin-Jezebel. Jezebel is a name notoriously borne from the Bible, in the Old Testament Book of Kings. The name is Hebrew in origin from ‘Izevel (אִיזֶבֶל) meaning “not exalted”. In the Bible, Jezebel’s story opens up in 1 Kings 16-22 when we are introduced to her as Ahab’s wife. 
Jezebel /je-ze-bel/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced JEZ-a-bel. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jezebel is not exalted. Biblical: an evil queen of Israel condemned by God. It was used as a term for a painted lady or a brazen hussy by Bette Davis in the film Jezebel. Kreatif forms: Jazebel, Jozebel, Juazebel. 
The different meanings of the name Jezebel are: The meaning of the name “Jezebel” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Form of: Itself (Jezebel). Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jezebel and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jezebel and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
Etymology of the name Jezebel. The etymology and meaning of the name Jezebel is unclear. It's also so unique in Semitic that BDB Theological Dictionary assumed it's a contraction of the extra-biblical Phoenician name בעלאזבל, Baalazebel, meaning Baal has exalted, and that pious scribes deleted the reference to Baal. The name Jezebel may be interpreted as a combination of any of the above, but most scholars and commentators see אי as the particle of negation, and זבל either indicative of glory, or else living together with a spouse, which is a rather askew.
Previously avoided as a baby name, Jezebel is now, along with the also previously avoided Delilah and Desiree, coming into use, helped by its relation to other 'bel' name such as Isabel and Bella. The popular feminist celebrity blog Jezebel upped the name's cool factor. Hello, Guest. Jezebel, the wife of King Ahab in the Hebrew Book of Kings, has long had a bad girl reputation. But in the modern secular world, this is somewhat mitigated by the feminist perspective of her as a strong woman, the power behind the throne.
The name Jezebel in the Bible. There are one or two women named Jezebel in the Bible. The famous Jezebel is the notorious wife of the notorious king Ahab, daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Sidonians (1 Kings 16:31). Jezebel promotes the worship of Baal in Israel and murders the servants of YHWH (1 Kings 18:4). The name Jezebel may be interpreted as a combination of any of the above, but most scholars and commentators see אי as the particle of negation, and זבל either indicative of glory, or else living together with a spouse, which is a rather askew.
Origin of the name Jezebel: Derived from the Hebrew 'īzebhel (impure, wicked). The name is borne in the Bible by the wicked wife of King Ahab. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Jezebel: | Edit. The image of Jezebel as an oversexed harlot goes back to the Biblical character, but the promiscuous Jezebel Stereotype was often applied by slave-masters to explain away the rape of black women.