A paragraph should consist of six to seven sentences. No, it should be no longer than three sentences long. Actually, it should include a topic sentence, several supporting sentences, and possibly a concluding sentence. Sigh.
I think a paragraph is 4 sentences long. There is really no set number of sentences in a given paragraph. The minimum should be 3 if one wnats to incorporate a topic sentence, … a body sentence and a conclusion. 4 people found this useful. In 5th Grade, You should be learning about paragraphs and have done a couple Essays. When I do an essay, it usually is about 10 to 12 sentences long, but I'm a 7th Grader. I … would recommend about 4 to 8 sentences to count as a full
Sentence 2-5: Each sentence in ORDER should each summarize each body paragraph. If you're writing 5 paragraphs, it'll be 3 body/2 opening/closing. So you'll have 5 sentences in the opening. Sentence 6: Last sentence should wrap up the paper again, but and this is IMPORTANT. It should smoothly transition into the first body paragraph. If you're in high school, a paragraph should be at least 5 sentences. If you're in middle school, four sentences might be sufficient.
4 sentences for below freshman in high school and from freshman to senior closer to 6. The first sentence should always describe what you will cover in that particular paragraph, and you should have around 3-4 body sentences going into specific detail about the section of material in that paragraph. Then the final conclusion sentence should wrap up the paragraph. If you're in high school, a paragraph should be at least 5 sentences. If you're in middle school, four sentences might be sufficient.
For example, you can set a goal of writing four to six sentences per paragraph: in that number of sentences you can announce an idea, prove that idea with evidence, and explain why this evidence matters by linking it to the overall goal of your paper. 
Paragraphs, whether denoted by a new line and an indentation or a line break, provide a structure for your writing. The end of a paragraph represents a significant pause in the flow of the writing. This pause is a signpost to the reader, indicating that the writing is about to move on to a different stage. Each paragraph should deal with one idea or aspect of an idea, and it should be clear to the reader what this main idea is. 
The basic essay paragraph structure. Even the shortest essay is supposed to include at least five essay paragraphs. The first paragraph is an introduction, then, there are three body paragraphs, and the fifth and last summarizes the whole essay and provides a conclusion. If you want to express a new idea, split the long paragraph in two. For what we have already seen, it is alright to begin a paragraph with a sentence connecting it to the previous one. On the other hand, if a paragraph is too short, perhaps you should develop a little more the initial idea.
Each body paragraph will have the same basic structure. 1  Start by writing down one of your main ideas, in sentence form. 2  If your main idea is reduces freeway congestion, you might say this: 3  Public transportation reduces freeway congestion. Each main idea that you wrote down in your diagram or outline will become one of the body paragraphs. If you had three or four main ideas, you will have three or four body paragraphs.
As long as you need it to be. A paragraph is just a series of sentences about one topic, so as long as you have given enough information about that topic, then you have used the correct number of sentences. In 5th Grade, You should be learning about paragraphs and have done a couple Essays. When I do an essay, it usually is about 10 to 12 sentences long, but I'm a 7th Grader. I … would recommend about 4 to 8 sentences to count as a full paragraph.
Some paragraphs may be short while others are longer. (Generally, a paragraph should be at least four sentences.) Either way, it is important that the length of a paragraph in an essay matches the length of the essay. 1 Anytime a paragraphs looks or “feels” too long – while there is no definitive rule for paragraph use, if any single paragraph is a page or longer, there is probably a place where it can and should be broken. 2  To begin the conclusion, which should always be a separate paragraph (or paragraphs).