Excretory Systems. Photo by: krishnacreations. Most animals require some system to excrete the waste products of metabolism from the body fluids. Kidneys are the major organs of the excretory systems of humans and other vertebrates, but several other kinds of excretory organs occur in other kinds of animals.
Types of organsKidneys-Filters waste from blood.Urinary bladder-Stores liquid waste.Ureters-Carry waste from the kidney to the bladder.Urethra-Carry liquid waste of the body.Rectum-From here solid feces pass out of the body through the anus.Liver-Supplies energy to the body.Gallbladder-Stores waste.
Insects, crustaceans, spiders, and other arthropods have different types of excretory/osmoregulatory organs, but they too operate by filtration and active transport. In insects and spiders the main organs are Malpighian (pronounced mal-PIG-ee-yan) tubules, which are attached to the gut.
The organs of the excretory system are also parts of other organ systems. For example, your lungs are part of the respiratory system. Your lungs remove carbon dioxide from your body, so they are also part of the excretory system. More organs of the excretory system are listed in Table below.
The excretory system is a system of organs that removes waste products from the body. When cells in the body break down proteins (large molecules that are essential to the structure and functioning of all living cells), they produce wastes such as urea (a chemical compound of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen).
The excretory system is made up of numerous organs that work in unison to ensure that waste is effectively removed from your body. Below are the details of the excretory system organs, along with the roles they play in detoxification.
The kidneys, considered the main excretory organs in humans, eliminate water, urea, and other waste products from the body in the form of urine. Other systems and organs in the body also play a part in excretion.
Disposal of liquid waste from human body is done by the excretory system. The system consisting of two kidneys, two ureters, one urinary bladder, and one urethra performs the work of collecting, storing and removing all the liquid waste products from the body.