Desert Biome Facts. The desert biome is an ecosystem that forms due to the low level of rainfall it receives each year. Deserts cover about 20% of the Earth. There are four major types of desert in this biome-hot and dry, semiarid, coastal, and cold. They are all able to inhabit plant and animal life that are able to survive there
Desert Ecology-Joshua Tree National Park: Desert Ecosystem Deserts host plants and animals living in what strikes many humans as oppressive environments. Solar energy that green plants convert into food fuels life here. 
Mojave Desert Biome Ecosystems Biome A major biotic community characterized by the dominant forms of plant life and the prevailing climate. Desert Ecosystems A closer look at similar, but very different desert ecosystems in two of our desert national parks Joshua Tree National Park Ecosystems Deserts host plants and animals living in what strikes many humans as oppressive environments.
Deserts, like forests and grasslands, occur all around the world. Symmetrical clusters of deserts are found around the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn-the two latitudes that define the area where the sun's angle at solar noon is closest to ninety degrees overhead at the Equinox. Some famous deserts are the Gobi and Taklamakan deserts in Asia, the Sahara in northern Africa, and the Great Sandy and Simpson deserts in Australia. Deserts can come and go with changes in climate. The Sahara was once green and filled with animals, as portrayed in wall paintings in its sandstone monuments.
All the ecosystems of one type are referred to as a biome. For example, the desert ecosystem of central Australia is different from the desert ecosystem of Arizona (USA) or from the ecosystem of the Karoo desert of South Africa. There are different types of plants, animals and even microorganisms in these different places. 
This section on the desert ecosystem will explain how!. explore the desert ecosystem and find out more! Click on plants, insects and arachnids, reptiles, birds, mammals or a special page for camels to learn more!. An ecosystem is a place where plants and animals (maybe humans) live and animals and plants live in the desert so … . 1 person found this useful. Edit.
Hot deserts are found in North America (e.g. Mojave), South Asia, South & Central America, Africa and Australia. They are further subdivided into Hot Dry desert, and Semi-arid desert. Hot Dry deserts are characterized by: 1  Generally warm seasons throughout the year. 2  Very little or no rainfall during winter. 3  Extreme variation in temperature between night (-18ºC) and day (+49ºC)
Desert Biome Description. The desert biome is one that is very hot and dry. They are found at the lower latitudes, between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. Light winds occur often which evaporates any type of moisture that is typically going to develop in them. 