A ruptured pancreatic pseudocyst, on the other hand, is a life-threatening condition. If you experience any of the following symptoms, go to an emergency room, or call 911: 1  high, persistent fever. 2  severe pain in your upper stomach, with pain radiating to your back. 3  fainting. 4  vomiting blood.
CT scan of a patient with a pancreatic pseudocyst and an associated pseudoaneurysm. Heterogeneous appearance of the matter within the pseudocyst is consistent with a recent hemorrhage. CT scan in a patient with a pancreatic pseudocyst demonstrates the relationship of the pseudocyst to the tail of the pancreas.
Pseudocysts of the pancreas are abnormal collections of fluid, dead tissue, pancreatic enzymes, and blood that can lead to a painful mass in the pancreas. Pseudocysts usually develop several weeks after an episode of acute pancreatitis (a sudden, painful inflammation of the pancreas).
The diagnosis is usually made by a CT scan. A typical picture is seen on CT of a fluid filled mass around the pancreas. It is important to note that in some patients, cystic tumors such as mucinous cystadenoma may look exactly like a pseudocyst.
A pancreatic pseudocyst is a collection of fluid around the pancreas. The fluid in the cyst is usually pancreatic juice that has leaked out of a damaged pancreatic duct. Pancreatic pseudocysts arise after acute pancreatitis or chronic pancreatitis.
It is usually the result of pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) or a hard blow to your abdomen. Pseudo means “false.” A pseudocyst is shaped like a cyst but is made from different kinds of tissue than a true cyst.
If your doctor thinks you may have a pancreatic pseudocyst, he or she will order imaging tests such as a CT scan or an MRI scan to get a better look at the structure of your pancreas and to gather more detailed information about the cyst. Your doctor may also order an endoscopic ultrasound.
A pancreatic pseudocyst is a type of cyst that it is not contained inside an enclosed sac of its own with an epithelium lining. Instead, the pseudocyst forms within a cavity or space inside the pancreas and is surrounded by fibrous tissue.