Portuguese Meaning: The name Roque is a Portuguese baby name. In Portuguese the meaning of the name Roque is: Rock. Spanish Meaning: The name Roque is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Roque is: Rock. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition.
Meaning of Roque. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Roque means-rock.The name Roque originated as an Spanish name. The name Roque is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-rock. Origin-Spain
Roque /ˈroʊk/ is an American variant of croquet played on a hard, smooth surface. Popular in the first quarter of the 20th century and billed the Game of the Century by its enthusiasts, it was an Olympic sport in the 1904 Summer Games, replacing croquet from the previous games. The name roque was suggested by Mr. Samuel Crosby of New York in 1899, who came to it by removing the initial c and final t from croquet.. The National Croquet Association, formed in 1882, thereafter changed its name to the National Roque Association in 1899.
Roque is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-que. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4201 in baby name popularity for boys with 24 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Given names are simple such as Juan or composite such as Juan Pablo. Composite names are considered single unit first names and not first and second names. Parents give names that just appeal to them, honor relatives or saints, or are of traditional Spanish origin. Many Spanish given names honor the Virgin Mary.
Definition of ROQUE. : croquet played on a hard-surfaced court with a raised border. 
You can find out where the majority of the Roque families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Roque families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
[ 2 syll. ro-que, roq-ue ] The baby boy name Roque is pronounced in Spanish as R OW-Keh †. Roque is of Germanic and English origin, and it is used mainly in the Portuguese and Spanish languages. Roque is a variant of Rocco (English and Italian) in the Portuguese and Spanish languages. Roque is also a variant of Rocky (English). Roque is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Among the group of boy names directly linked to Roque, Rocco was the most regularly used in 2012.
Larocque Name Meaning. French: habitational name from any of the numerous places called La Roque or Laroque, from a southern and Picard form of roche ‘rock’ (see Laroche). In Canada, it is a frequent secondary, which has also been used independently since 1717; it is sometimes translated as Rock. 
Roque is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#3076 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed analysis of the usage of Roque and associated names. Roque /ro-que/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Roque's name origin is English, and the name Roque means rest. Roque is a variant transcription of Rocco (German, Italian). Roque is also a variation of Rocky (English)