If you do not agree to the terms of this Agreement (including the Logo Guidelines and the Policies), do not take the online examination. The terms of this Agreement shall remain in force and apply to any Examination(s) for which you have attained certification. 1 5.  2 Certification shall mean passing the requisite Apple Certification Exam(s), and meeting and maintaining compliance with those other requirements set out in this Agreement for entitlement to use any Apple Certification Signature.
A certified agreement will also cover employees who commence employment after the agreement is made. A certified agreement can 'stand alone' by setting out all conditions and provisions of employment thereby effectively replacing the relevant award or it can operate in conjunction with the relevant award. A certified agreement is a written collective employment agreement that sets out the wages and working conditions for a particular group of employees. The group of employees may be the whole of a government department or local government council that is somehow separate and distinct.
. The term INTERTEK Requirements shall mean (a) the requirements contained in the Certification Report, (b) the standard(s), if any, applicable to the Product, (c) the terms of this Certification Agreement, and, (d) any requirements separately applied as a condition of the Certification. Whereas for the purpose of this Agreement, the Client may be either, or any combination of, the Applicant, the Grantee, or the Responsible Party. NOW THEREFORE. , for and in consideration of the mutual covenants herein expressed and other lawful and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1.
Upon certification of an agreement, the Commission will issue a certificate. All agreements certified as of March 2006, may be viewed by clicking on the title of the Agreement to download the full certified agreement with certificate from either the Public Sector Agreements link or the Local Government Agreements link. A certified agreement is a written collective employment agreement that sets out the wages and working conditions for a particular group of employees. The group of employees may be the whole of a government department or local government council that is somehow separate and distinct.
'Certified agreement' is a term used under previous workplace relations legislation, eg Industrial Relations Act 1983; Workplace Relations Act 1996. 
As of 1 January 2010 the Queensland Industrial Relations Commission only has jurisdiction to approve Certifiied Agreements for Queensland Government Public Sector, Local Government and certain Statutory Authority employees. 
Certifications performed by the Intertek TCB under the terms of this agreement shall comply fully with existing FCC rules and regulations, including but not limited to 47 CFR 2.962 and 47 CFR 68.162. Certification. . Whereas for the purpose of this Agreement, the Client may be either, or any combination of, the Applicant, the Grantee, or the Responsible Party. NOW THEREFORE. , for and in consideration of the mutual covenants herein expressed and other lawful and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1.
Agreements were for a maximum of five years; approved, promoted and registered by the Workplace Authority; operate to the exclusion of any award; and prohibit industrial action regarding details in the agreement for the life of the agreement. Employers could offer a take it or leave it. AWA as a condition of employment. They were registered by the employment advocate and did not require a dispute resolution procedure. These agreements such as performance evaluations, operate only at the federal level.
An Australian workplace agreement (AWA) was a formalized individual agreement negotiated by the employer and employee. Employers could offer a take it or leave it. AWA as a condition of employment. They were registered by the employment advocate and did not require a dispute resolution procedure. These agreements such as performance evaluations, operate only at the federal level.