You have three options to choose from as to how you want your image to be projected as a panorama: Spherical, Cylindrical, and Perspective. This setting will determine how Lightroom merges the single frames together to control the distortion of the image. Step #1 – Select the images you want to merge. Here I’ve selected the three separate frames that make up the panorama attached at the top of this article. It doesn’t matter if you’re in the Develop module or the Library as you’ll be able to create the panoramic image from either place. Yep!
What you'll need. Get photos A set of photos of your own, or download our sample (3.7 MB). What you'll learn. How to merge images that you took using different camera exposures. Your final image of a high contrast scene will show the detail you recorded in those exposures.
• Merging HDR images requires exposure metadata. If aperture and ISO information is available, then it is used as well. • Lightroom will show an error if you try to merge photos of different sizes, focal lengths, etc. • The merged HDR images is 16-bit due to the significant (and painful) file size that would result if the HDR merge was 32 bit. • By default Lightroom appends the file name with-HDR
Photo Merge DNGs. To open Photo Merge in “headless” mode, hold down the Shift key as you select via the menu. In this mode, Lightroom processes the photos automatically without showing a dialog. Otherwise, you will see the dialog shown in Step 2, where you have the option to control the settings. $47.99 (Save 20%). Lightroom CC now offers a Photo Merge feature, which can be used to process raw or non-raw images to produce a master DNG file. So far, Photo Merge can be used to generate high dynamic range (HDR) or panorama images. Hopefully, in the future it will be possible to offer focus stacking as well
In this excerpt from The Adobe Photoshop Lightroom CC /Lightroom 6 Book: The Complete Guide for Photographers, Martin Evening shows you how to use the new Photo Merge feature in Adobe Photoshop Lightroom CC to create HDR photos. $47.99 (Save 20%). Lightroom CC now offers a Photo Merge feature, which can be used to process raw or non-raw images to produce a master DNG file. So far, Photo Merge can be used to generate high dynamic range (HDR) or panorama images. Hopefully, in the future it will be possible to offer focus stacking as well
This excerpt from Adobe Photoshop Lightroom CC Classroom in a Book shows you how to use the Photo Merge tools for Panorama and HDR, which are new to Lightroom CC. 
What you'll need. Get photos A set of photos of your own, or download our sample (3.8 MB). What you'll learn. How to combine multiple images that you took to create a wide view panoramic photo. Get a wide view by combining multiple images for a panoramic photo (Try it, 8 min).
More and more, photos can be transformed into something beyond the single frame you first snapped. Adobe Systems' new version of Lightroom isn't the first program to let photographers merge multiple photos into panoramas or high dynamic range (HDR) images. But it may be the program photographers actually use for those jobs. 
Easily find your favorite photos. Find your favorite images to edit with the new Lightroom Photos collection view on your iPad or iPhone, which shows your Camera Roll photos and videos sorted by date. 