The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is working towards a maiden manned Indian space mission vehicle that can carry three astronauts for seven days in a near earth orbit. The Indian manned spacecraft temporarily named as Orbital Vehicle intends to be the basis of indigenous Indian human spaceflight programme.
With the mars orbiter mission (MOM) taking clear priority, the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has postponed the key GSLV-MKIII experimental mission, which was initially scheduled for launch in the last week of this month.
1 All 7 IRNSS satellites to be in orbit by March 2016: ISRO:- All the seven satellites of Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS) are expected to be in orbit by March 2016, Indian Space Research Organisation said Thursday....
Formed in 1969, ISRO superseded the erstwhile Indian National Committee for Space Research (INCOSPAR) , which was established in 1962 by the efforts of independent India 's first Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and his close aide, and reputed scientist Dr. Vikram Sarabhai.
The Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) was established in 1969 and is currently under the Department of Space. Indian Space Research Organization is engaged in application of Space Science and Space Technology for national benefit.
In a belated response, state-run Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Wednesday said it would contest the damages an international arbitration court awarded to its commercial arm for cancelling a satellite contract in 2011 with a multimedia services provider.
On 5 November 2013, ISRO launched its Mars Orbiter Mission, which successfully entered Mars orbit on 24 September 2014, making India the first nation to succeed on its first attempt, and ISRO the fourth space agency in the world as well as the first space agency in Asia to successfully reach Mars orbit.
INSAT (Indian National Satellite System) is a series of multipurpose geostationary satellites launched by ISRO to satisfy the telecommunications, broadcasting, meteorology and search-and-rescue needs of India.
The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO, /ˈɪsroʊ/ , is the space agency of the Indian government headquartered in the city of Bengaluru. Its vision is to harness space technology for national development, while pursuing space science research and planetary exploration.
About ISRO. India decided to go to space when Indian National Committee for Space Research (INCOSPAR) was set up by the Government of India in 1962.