The suprasellar cistern (also known as pentagon of basal cisterns) is a cerebrospinal-fluid filled space located above the sella turcica, under the hypothalamus. 
Tarin, Tarin space-a dilation of the subarachnoid space in front of the pons. Synonym(s): interpeduncular cistern. Tarin tenia-a slender, compact fiber bundle that connects the amygdala with the hypothalamus and other basal forebrain regions. Synonym(s): terminal stria.
The subarachnoid cisterns are areas within the subarachnoid space where the pia mater and arachnoid membrane are not in close approximation. The subarachnoid tissue is not as abundant here as in the normal subarachnoid space and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) gathers to form pools or cisterns (Latin: box). Some major subarachnoid cisterns: 1  cisterna magna (cerebellomedullary cistern): the largest of the subarachnoid cisterns. 2  pontine cistern. 3  suprasellar cistern. 4  interpeduncular cistern. 5  quadrigeminal cistern (superior cistern or cistern of the great cerebral vein
Tarin, Tarin space-a dilation of the subarachnoid space in front of the pons. Synonym(s): interpeduncular cistern. Tarin tenia-a slender, compact fiber bundle that connects the amygdala with the hypothalamus and other basal forebrain regions. Synonym(s): terminal stria. 
Abstract. Effacement of the basal cisterns (BC) and midline shift (MLS) are two most important features clinicians use to evaluate the severity of brain compression by various pathologies. 
Basal cistern. Definition. noun. (anatomy) A cistern where the arachnoid extends across between the two temporal lobes, and encloses the cerebral peduncles including the structures contained in the interpeduncular fossa. Supplement. Word origin: cistern » ME cistern(e) cisterna, equiv. to cist(a) . 
(Redirected from Basal cistern). The interpeduncular cistern (basal cistern or Fossa interpeduncularis) is a wide cavity where the arachnoid extends across between the two temporal lobes. It encloses the cerebral peduncles and the structures contained in the interpeduncular fossa, and contains the arterial circle of Willis.
cistern-an artificial reservoir for storing liquids; especially an underground tank for storing rainwater. cesspit, cesspool, sump, sink-a covered cistern; waste water and sewage flow into it. pool-an excavation that is (usually) filled with water. Noun. 1. cistern-a sac or cavity containing fluid especially lymph or cerebrospinal fluid. cisterna. sac-a structure resembling a bag in an animal
Supplement. In neuroanatomy, cisterns refer to any of the openings in the subarachnoid space of the brain filled with cerebrospinal fluid. Some of the major subarachnoid cisternae are: 1  cisterna cerebromedullaris or cerebellomedullary cistern. 2  cisterna pontis or pontine cistern. 3  cisterna interpeduncularis or interpeduncular cistern.