By this definition, approximately two-thirds of the population scores between IQ 85 and IQ 115, and about 5 percent of the population scores above 125. IQ scores have been shown to be associated with such factors as morbidity and mortality, parental social status, and, to a substantial degree, biological parental IQ. Raw scores on IQ tests for many populations have been rising at an average rate that scales to three IQ points per decade since the early 20th century, a phenomenon called the Flynn effect. Investigation of different patterns of increases in subtest scores can also inform current research on human intelligence.
IQ is a number meant to measure people cognitive abilities (intelligence) in relation to their age group. An I.Q between 90 and 110 is considered average; over 120, superior. Roughly 68% of the population has an IQ between 85 and 115. The average range between 70 and 130, and represents about 95% of the population. A score below 70 may indicate problems in understanding the iQ questions or soem type or retardation, and a score above 130 may indicate intellectual giftedness. 1% of the population has an IQ of 136 or highe
An intelligence quotient (IQ) is a score derived from one of several standardized tests designed to assess human intelligence. The abbreviation IQ was coined by the psychologist William Stern for the German term Intelligenz-quotient, his term for a scoring method for intelligence tests he advocated in a 1912 book. Raw scores on IQ tests for many populations have been rising at an average rate that scales to three IQ points per decade since the early 20th century, a phenomenon called the Flynn effect. Investigation of different patterns of increases in subtest scores can also inform current research on
IQ or Intelligence Quotient refers to a score or a measure of a person’s intelligence. To get a person’s IQ, he/she must submit to some testing. There are various IQ tests available to determine a person’s score with regards to the general population. In this context, an average IQ refers to intelligence scores of about 100. Since it is common for people to compare themselves with other people in terms of IQ, experts in psychological testing would like to stress that the scores only cover “academic”
Based on statistics, about half of the population are said to have “Average IQ”. 17% of people are classified either above or below the average level. 2.2% are considered very superior and intelligent and another 2.2% comprises those with possible mental problems. In this context, an average IQ refers to intelligence scores of about 100. Since it is common for people to compare themselves with other people in terms of IQ, experts in psychological testing would like to stress that the scores only cover “academic” intelligence.
Above 100 will indicate that a person may be above average or has better or superior intelligence, while below 100 scores are classified as below average. Even further below may indicate some form of mental problem or retardation. In this context, an average IQ refers to intelligence scores of about 100. Since it is common for people to compare themselves with other people in terms of IQ, experts in psychological testing would like to stress that the scores only cover “academic” intelligence.
50% of IQ scores fall between 90 and 110. 70% of IQ scores fall between 85 and 115. 95% of IQ scores fall between 70 and 130. 99.5% of IQ scores fall between 60 and 140. Low IQ & Mental Retardation. An IQ under 70 is considered as mental retardation or limited mental ability. 5% of the population falls below 70 on IQ tests. 
Last 10 results of this IQ Test : The bell curve (also called a normal curve or normal distribution) is a graph that shows approximately how much of the population falls into each IQ range. In theory, if we tested everyone in the world with a traditional IQ test, most people would score in the  Average range. A smaller number would score moderately below average and moderately above average. Very high and very low scores are rare.
An IQ score of 115 means performance one standard deviation above the median, a score of 85 performance one standard deviation below the median, and so on. The average IQ is 100. Most IQ tests are constructed so that there are no overall score differences between females and males. An intelligence quotient, or IQ, is a score derived from one of several standardized tests designed to assess human intelligence. The abbreviation IQ was coined by the psychologist William Stern for the German term Intelligenz-quotient, his term for a scoring method for intelligence tests he advocated in a 1912 book. The current scoring method for all IQ tests is the deviation IQ. In this method, an IQ score of 100 means that the test-taker's performance on the test is at the median level of performance in the sample of test-takers of about the same age used to norm the test.
IQ classification is the practice by IQ test publishers of labeling IQ score ranges with (somewhat subjective) category names such as superior or average. There are several publishers of tests of cognitive abilities. An IQ score of 115 means performance one standard deviation above the median, a score of 85 performance one standard deviation below the median, and so on. Lewis Terman and other early developers of IQ tests noticed that most child IQ scores come out to approximately the same number by either procedure.