Given a good-quality bean, roasting is probably the single most important factor influencing the flavor of coffee. The most significant variable is degree, or darkness, of roast. The longer the coffee is held in the roaster and/or the higher the roasting temperature, the darker the bean.
Many people enjoy Italian roast because though the blend is dark, it tends to have a sweeter and less acidic taste than other dark roasts like French Roast. Contrary to popular belief, dark roasted coffee like Italian or French roast is not any stronger than lighter roasts. In fact, the opposite is true.
With a French Roast, the temperature of the roast is high enough that these oils are brought to the surface and will impart a roasted flavor to the produced coffee or espresso. Aromas can vary from berry to citrus. Italian Roast is much darker and oilier than a French Roast and often preferred in Italy. If a coffee is described as being a French or Italian roast, it isn’t because they were grown or roasted in these countries, just that the roaster utilized this generalized roast level for that blend of beans. You can read more about roasting in our article It Starts with Great Coffee.
It is more oily than the Espresso roast, contains much less acid, and is almost bittersweet in flavor while also bringing forth a very pronounced coffee flavor. A very popular choice for dark roast enthusiasts. French. The French roast, darkest of all roasts, is the boldest and smokiest of all the roasts.
The ideal balance of roast and of flavor. That’s an apt description of our favorite way to enjoy Italian Roast – just ourselves, two cups, and an afternoon to spare. This coffee gets its distinctive sweetness from the way it is roasted: dark, and darker still. Somewhere beyond the caramel notes of our Espresso Roast but short of the smokiness that identifies our French Roast – that is the sweet spot held by Italian Roast.
Italian roast coffee is named after the dark roasted blends commonly found in Italy that were first made in the 1500s. At that time, Turkey was the main producer and exporter of coffee. This roast certainly exhibits Turkish influence in its dark color and strong flavor.