Podcast: Play in new window | Download. Filming Home & Away at Palm Beach Australia. Welcome to “Summer Bay”! Television viewers especially in Australia and the UK will be very familiar with Palm Beach, location for the mythical village of Summer Bay where the hit TV series Home and Away is located. Screened in more than 50 countries Home and Away’s mythiical village of Summer Bay couldn’t have choosen a more idyllic location. Information on ferries in the area can be obtained from the Palm Beach Ferry website. On the Pacific Ocean, the surf side of Palm Beach is where you see most of the Home and Away “Summer Bay”, beach scenes.
Summer Bay is the fictional town featured in the Australian soap opera, Home and Away. Palm Beach, north of Sydney, is used for the show's exterior scenes in order to depict the Bay. Between 2010 and 2014, the Lane Cove River Tourist Park in Macquarie Park was used as the location for filming of scenes involving the Summer Bay Caravan Park. As with many real life Australian beaches Summer Bay has its own Surf and Lifesaving Centre (SLSC). It was first seen on screen in 1989. Over the years as well as serving its purpose as a centre for sea and land rescues it has been a place for the young people of the Bay to relax and socialise.
Home and Away follows the lives and loves of the residents in Summer Bay, a seaside town of New South Wales. In Australia, Home and Away is the most successful program in Logie Award history; the show has won a total of forty-five Logie Awards, including Most Popular Drama Program.
From essentials such as Palm Beach (the real-life home of Summer Bay) to less well known locations such as the location of Josie's Brothel, we have details of 95 real life locations that any true Home and Away fan needs to visit. The Stewart House was first introduced in Episode 3 of the show as the home of Alf Stewart and his daughter Roo, who had moved there from Summer Bay House a few years earlier following the death of Alf’s wife Martha.
210 pages on this wiki. Summer Bay is a fictional town featured in Home and Away. Palm Beach, north of Sydney, is used for the show's exterior scenes in order to depict the Bay. Lane Cove River Tourist Park at Macquarie Park is the current (Oct 2010) location for filming of scenes involving the Summer Bay Caravan Park.
Travel to world-famous “Summer Bay aka Palm Beach”. Plan your trip to Summer Bay today! The drama ‘Home and Away’ is actually filmed at Palm Beach on Sydney’s northern beaches. Just a short tour bus ride from your accommodation in Sydney! “Hold me in your arms, don’t let me go. I want to stay forever”.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The show Home and Away, which was also referred to as Summer Bay, is filmed in several locations. It is an Australian show that is filmed primarily in Sydney and other beaches. 
In 2004 I was fortunate enough to stay in the real life Summer Bay for a month, in a beach house just down the road from the Surf Club. I arrived on Friday 13th August 2004, 45 minutes before the Olympic cliffhanger aired. Unfortunately for me it marked a 2-week break for 'Home and Away' both on screen and off screen. The actors filming in these locations today are Lynne McGranger (Irene, who had a 5:30 call time), Laurie Foell (Josie), Kate Ritchie (Sally), Cornelia Frances (Morag), Ben Unwin (Jesse), Kip Gamblin (Scott) plus 6 extras for the Diner scenes.
If you love The show Home and Away as much as we do... Jump on board with Sydney's Northern Beaches Tours for the best day trip in Sydney! Sit back, relax... Let us take you on a journey through the Northern Beaches Of Sydney to Palm Beach. The mythical town otherwise known as Summer Bay! 