neuroma. acoustic neuroma a benign tumor within the internal auditory canal arising from Schwann cells of the eighth cranial (acoustic) nerve. amputation neuroma traumatic n. neuroma cu´tis neuroma in the skin. false neuroma. 1. one which does not contain nerve cells. traumatic neuroma an unorganized bulbous or nodular mass of nerve fibers and Schwann cells produced by hyperplasia of nerve fibers and their supporting tissues after accidental or purposeful sectioning of the nerve.
What does A mean? A (an) is the indefinite article, indicating a single, non-specific member of a group or set. The plural may be some, but also several, many, or any numerical modifier. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A mass of interlacing, coiled fibers, cells of Schwann, and fibrous tissue forming. a mass at the end of an amputation stump.
Tumor (Neoplasm). An abnormal mass of tissue that results when cells divide more than they should or do not die when they should. Neoplasms may be benign (not cancer), or malignant (cancer). Also called tumor. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute). Related terms: Tumour, Neoplasia, Neoplastic. 
(Redirected from Acoustic neuroma). A vestibular schwannoma is a benign primary intracranial tumor of the myelin-forming cells of the vestibulocochlear nerve (8th cranial nerve). A type of schwannoma, this tumor arises from the Schwann cells responsible for the myelin sheath that helps keep peripheral nerves insulated.
neuroma telangiecto´des one containing an excess of blood vessels. traumatic neuroma a nonneoplastic, unorganized, bulbous or nodular mass of nerve fibers and Schwann cells produced by hyperplasia of nerve fibers and their supporting tissues after accidental or purposeful sectioning of the nerve. traumatic neuroma an unorganized
A malignant neoplasm of nerve tissue and fibrous tissue and connective tissue. Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Synonyms: malignant neuroma; neurosarcoma. Hypernyms (malignant neuroma is a kind of...): The noun MALIGNANT NEUROMA has 1 sense: 1. a malignant neoplasm of nerve tissue and fibrous tissue and connective tissue. Familiarity information: MALIGNANT NEUROMA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
Neuromas. A neuroma is a painful condition, also referred to as a “pinched nerve” or a nerve tumor. It is a benign growth of nerve tissue frequently found between the third and fourth toes. It brings on pain, a burning sensation, tingling, or numbness between the toes and in the ball of the foot. The symptoms of a neuroma include the following: 1  Pain in the forefoot and between the toes. 2  Tingling and numbness in the ball of the foot. 3  Swelling between the toes. 4  Pain in the ball of the foot when weight is placed on it.
• MALIGNANT NEUROMA (noun). The noun MALIGNANT NEUROMA has 1 sense: 1. a malignant neoplasm of nerve tissue and fibrous tissue and connective tissue. Familiarity information: MALIGNANT NEUROMA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
neuroma telangiecto´des one containing an excess of blood vessels. traumatic neuroma an unorganized bulbous or nodular mass of nerve fibers and Schwann cells produced by hyperplasia of nerve fibers and their supporting tissues after accidental or purposeful sectioning of the nerve.