Lysosomes are membrane-enclosed organelles that help eukaryotic cells obtain nourishment from macromolecular nutrients. The lysosomes contain many hydrolytic enzymes such as proteases, nucleases, and lipases). The lysosomes are formed vesicles containing hydrolytic enzymes and proton pumps bud off from the Golgi complex.
However, if what you are asking is what organelle does the enzymatic reactions inside a cell, the answer's quite different. The main organelle that does that is the lysosomes. Other organelles that also does similar functions are a group called microbodies, which include peroxisomes, glyoxisomes, and glycosomes. Membrane-bound organelles that contain powerful enzymes found in  cells are known as lysomes. Lysomes hold enzymes that were created  by the cell. Lysomes digest things.
The lysosome of the cell produces digestive enzymes so as to break complex materials into simple ones for easy digestion. Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum would be responsible for the synthesis of protein (peptide enzymes) in the exocrine pancreatic cells. Also, synthesis of protein requires energy. … It is also natural to see abundant mitochondria
Enzymes are proteins, so the answer to what organelled does protein synthesis is ribosomes. The coding information on the DNA is translated into mRNA in the nucleus. Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum would be responsible for the synthesis of protein (peptide enzymes) in the exocrine pancreatic cells. Also, synthesis of protein requires energy. … It is also natural to see abundant mitochondria
An active cell constantly produces waste products. cytoplasm, organelles called lysosomes contain chemicals. (enzymes) that digest wastes and worn-out cell parts. These. chemicals also break down food. These organelles are found primarily in animal cells. Cells require a continuous supply of energy. In cells, structures called Golgi Bodies (also known as Golgi apparatus or Golgi complex) are stacks of membrane-covered sacs that package and move proteins to the outside of the cell.
Enzymes are proteins, so the answer to what organelled does protein synthesis is ribosomes. The coding information on the DNA is translated into mRNA in the nucleus. Membrane-bound organelles that contain powerful enzymes found in  cells are known as lysomes. Lysomes hold enzymes that were created  by the cell. Lysomes digest things.
Here proteins from the ribosomes are stored, chemically modified, addressed with carbohydrate tags, and packaged in vesicles for delivery. Lysosomes Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that contain digestive enzymes that break down proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids. They are important in processing the contents of vesicles taken in from outside the cell. 
The main organelle that does that is the lysosomes. Other organelles that also does similar functions are a group called microbodies, which include peroxisomes, glyoxisomes, and glycosomes. Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum would be responsible for the synthesis of protein (peptide enzymes) in the exocrine pancreatic cells. Also, synthesis of protein requires energy. … It is also natural to see abundant mitochondria
Lysosomes are manufactured and budded into the cytoplasm by the Golgi apparatus with enzymes inside. The enzymes that are within the lysosome are made in the rough endoplasmic reticulum, which are then delivered to the Golgi apparatus via transport vesicles. The lysosomes contain many hydrolytic enzymes such as proteases, nucleases, and lipases). The lysosomes are formed vesicles containing hydrolytic enzymes and proton pumps bud off from the Golgi complex.
Answers: Lysosomes are organelles that carry the cell's digestive enzymes. Lysosomes have to be membrane bound. This is because of the enzymes. The digestive enzymes in the cell break down and recycle the unneeded materials in the cell. If the enzymes were allowed to float freely within the cytoplasm, the digestive enzymes would break down and recycle the entire cell-they're that strong.