Wildlife in China. The Giant Panda is China's most loved animal. China's natural world has been since ancient times a source of inspiration in the arts, literature, religion and mythology. Philosophers have preached the virtues of living in harmony with nature for centuries. Also known as the Chinese White Dolphin, is mainly found around the waters of Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta. They are endangered and became the official mascot of Hong Kong's handover to China. Chinese Sturgeon. Also a national treasure and a living fossil.
Ancient China Animals. Ancient Chinese Animals: Since ancient times, China had a great diversity of animal life due to its climatic and vegetative diversity. Be it domestic or wildlife, ancient China has records of several amazing and myriad species of animals. Ancient Chinese Zodiac Animals: The Chinese zodiac also comprises of animals associated with each year. They include the rat, pig, dog, rooster, monkey, sheep, horse, snake, dragon, rabbit, tiger and the ox.
China is one of the countries with the greatest diversity of wildlife in the world. There are more than 6,266 species of vertebrates, 10 percent of the world's total. Among them 2,404 are terrestrials and 3,862 fishes. China is home to more than 2,000 species of edible plants and over 3,000 species of medicinal plants. Ginseng from the Changbai Mountains, safflowers from Tibet, Chinese wolfberry from Ningxia and notoginseng from Yunnan and Guizhou are particularly well-known Chinese herbal medicines.
Many species of animals are endemic to China, including the country's most famous wildlife species, the giant panda. In all, about one-sixth of mammal species and two-thirds of amphibian species in China are endemic to the country. Perhaps the most remarkable endangered deer species in China is Pere Père'david s. Deer this, deer colloquially known as the sibuxiang or The-Four-Not-Look, alike is said to have the hooves of an, ox antlers of a, deer neck of a camel and tail of a, donkey but does not look like any one. animal
Wildlife in China is very diverse, there are over 30,000 kinds of plants and over 4,400 species of vertebrates. Because of China's immense range of climates and landscape, there are many different kinds of habitats which support many different kinds of flora and fauna. Also known as the Chinese White Dolphin, is mainly found around the waters of Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta. They are endangered and became the official mascot of Hong Kong's handover to China. Chinese Sturgeon. Also a national treasure and a living fossil.
Draught power resources are plentiful in China, with almost every kind of work animal in the world being available. Horses, cattle, buffaloes, mules, donkeys, camels and yaks are all important, with horses and cattle being the most widely used. China is a large agricultural country with a wealth of work animals Through international cooperation, the country is willing to strengthen applied research and development activities towards defining better strategies for the use of work animals in agriculture.
Confidence votes 2. China has an abundance of animals that live in the wild, the river fox, camel, tapir, jerboa, civet cat, Chinese pangolin, bamboo rat, gibbon, and treeshrew.and the white dolthin China also has the usual animal mix as other countries, such as antelope, pigs, rodents, deer, and wolves. Some animals that live near the Great Wall of China include the Hog  Badger, the Siberian Roe Deer, the Red Fox, the African Hoopoe, the  Dione Rat snake, the Banded Red Sna … ke, and the Common Pheasant. 3 people found this useful.
Takin Formal Name: Budorcas taxicolor The Takin is an endemic animal of China. It is one of the rarest and most endangered animals in the world. The Shanghai Zoological Park began to raise the Golden Takin in the 70s' and succeded in breeding the first young Takin in 1983. 
Not Yet Rated. Tens of millions of animals are slaughtered and butchered in China each year. Animal fur is in high demand, and the Chinese deliver. What does not get exported outside of China usually ends up on a dinner plate. The sad fact is that the animals suffer horrendous torture. They are captured on the streets, and packed by the dozens into small cages, without ability to move.
China 's vast and diverse landscape is home to a profound variety and abundance of wildlife. As of one of 17 megadiverse countries in the world, China has, according to one measure, some 7,516 species of vertebrates including 4,936 fish, 1,269 bird, 562 mammal, 403 reptile and 346 amphibian species. Perhaps the most remarkable endangered deer species in China is Pere Père'david s. Deer this, deer colloquially known as the sibuxiang or The-Four-Not-Look, alike is said to have the hooves of an, ox antlers of a, deer neck of a camel and tail of a, donkey but does not look like any one. animal