PreviDent ® 5000 Booster Plus brand of 1.1% sodium fluoride toothpaste in a squeeze bottle is easily applied onto a toothbrush. This prescription toothpaste should be used once daily in place of your regular toothpaste unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional. Colgate® PreviDent® 5000 Booster Plus (1.1% Sodium Fluoride) Prescription Strength Toothpaste (Rx Only). Delivers four times the fluoride of over-the-counter toothpastes and rinses for unsurpassed cavity protection 1.
Many herbal toothpastes do not contain fluoride or sodium lauryl sulfate. The ingredients found in natural toothpastes vary widely but often include baking soda, aloe, eucalyptus oil, myrrh, plant extract (strawberry extract), and essential oils. The additional fluoride in toothpaste has beneficial effects on the formation of dental enamel and bones. Sodium fluoride (NaF) is the most common source of fluoride, but stannous fluoride (SnF 2), olaflur (an organic salt of fluoride), and sodium monofluorophosphate (Na 2 PO 3 F) are also used.
The message claims that most toothpastes available today contain Fluoride which is supposed to prevent tooth decay, but is a dangerous chemical that can lead to several health issues in children and adults as well. The story is a mixture of hoax and facts however. The controversy over using fluoride toothpaste actually rises from the available fluoride content in drinking water, claiming that the additional intake of fluoride from toothpaste is not required and can be damaging as well.
Our calcium carbonate-based toothpastes require the use of sodium monofluorophosphate. We use sodium fluoride in our anticavity gel toothpastes and our anticavity mouthwashes. We've set high standards in defining natural, sustainable, and responsible. Fluoride is currently the only toothpaste ingredient recognized by the US Food and Drug Administration to prevent cavities. The FDA recognizes three forms of fluoride: sodium monofluorophosphate, sodium fluoride, and stannous fluoride and regulates the levels at which they can be included in toothpaste formulations.
Amount of fluoride in toothpaste. The amount of fluoride contained in fluoride toothpaste should be indicated on the toothpaste tube, although this information may sometimes be hard to locate. It may appear after the label Active ingredient or as a component under Ingredients on the toothpaste tube. Recommendations on the use of fluoride toothpaste in children have been produced by the Expert Body on Fluorides and Health. (http://www.fluoridesandhealth.ie/). These recommendations aim to minimise the risk of fluorosis from fluoride toothpaste while maximising its caries-preventive benefits.
It is a fact that few toothpastes in the past have been using fluoride in excess amounts, but most of the standard ones today only use permissible amounts of fluoride, which is not more than 1000ppm, for general usage. The controversy over using fluoride toothpaste actually rises from the available fluoride content in drinking water, claiming that the additional intake of fluoride from toothpaste is not required and can be damaging as well.
Some toothpastes contain ingredients such as potassium nitrate or strontium chloride to help reduce tooth sensitivity. Stannous fluoride and triclosan help reduce gingivitis, a mild inflammation of the gum tissue. Pyrophosphates, triclosan and zinc citrate help reduce a build-up of hardened plaque, called tartar. 
Fluoride toothpastes. Fluoride toothpastes make up more than 95% of all toothpaste sales. It is well recognised that the decline in the prevalence of dental caries recorded in most industrialised countries over the past 30 years can be attributed mainly to the widespread use of toothpaste that contain fluoride. Recommendations on the use of fluoride toothpaste in children have been produced by the Expert Body on Fluorides and Health. (http://www.fluoridesandhealth.ie/). These recommendations aim to minimise the risk of fluorosis from fluoride toothpaste while maximising its caries-preventive benefits.
Sodium fluoride /ˌsoʊdiəm ˈflʊəraɪd/ is an inorganic chemical compound with the formula NaF. A colorless solid, it is a source of the fluoride ion in diverse applications. Sodium fluoride is less expensive and less hygroscopic than the related salt potassium fluoride. Sodium fluoride is used as a cleaning agent (e.g., as a laundry sour). Sodium fluoride is used as a stomach poison for plant-feeding insects. Inorganic fluorides such as fluorosilicates and sodium fluoride complex magnesium ions as magnesium fluorophosphate.