Range & Habitat. The mighty jaguar once roamed from Argentina in South America all the way up to the Grand Canyon in Arizona. Today, jaguars have been almost completely eliminated from the United States and are endangered throughout their range, which stretches down to Patagonia in South America. Behavior. Jaguars are solitary animals and live and hunt alone, except during mating season. The male's home range is between 19 and 53 square miles and often overlaps with the smaller home ranges of multiple females. A male aggressively protects his home range and resident females from other males.
Jaguar (Panther onca). Jaguars can reach up to six feet in length -- from their nose to the tip of their tail -- and stand up to three feet tall at the shoulder. The average male jaguar weighs about 120 pounds, but some individuals can weigh as much as 300 pounds. At birth most jaguars weigh only two pounds. 
The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. Native to the americas the-jaguar is the third largest feline after the, tiger and the lion and The. largest in the americas The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. native to the americas
The largest continental wetland in the world is South America's Pantanal, which means swamp or marsh in Portuguese. This prime jaguar habitat occurs in the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul and parts of Paraguay and Bolivia. The largest jaguars in the world live in the Pantanal. In the wet season from November to March, 80 percent of the land floods, with water as high as 3 meters (10 feet). 
The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the tiger and the lion, and the largest in the Americas. The jaguar's present range extends from Southwestern United States and Mexico across much of Central America and south to Paraguay and northern Argentina. The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. native to the americas
The jaguar is larger then the leopard. The jaguar's coat has different colors, but they are usually yellow-brownish with black spots, like leopards. Some jaguars are even white. The jaguar's coat on its side and back is spotted with large black rosettes, each consisting of a circle of spots surrounding a central spot. The spots on its head, legs, and underside are solid black. An adult male jaguar may be four to seven feet long, excluding the long tail. The destruction of the jaguar's habitat from logging and cattle ranching as well as having to compete with humans for food has brought a large decease in its population. One of the problems experienced by the jaguars is when the grasses that help hide them are dying because of smog problems.
For example the lion and t … iger are both in the genus Panthera. Their offspring, the liger, cannot reproduce successfully. Black jaguars, or panthers, are of the same species as normal jaguars. They are just of a different coloring. For example a black labrador can mate with a gold labrador, and their puppies would be able to mate and have puppies. 5 people found this useful. 
Enlarge Image. The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the lion and tiger. This big cat belongs to the Panthera genus, class Mammalia, and in fact in the Americas, it is the only Panthera species that is found. Typically, jaguars weigh between 100 to 250 pounds and live for 12 to 15 years in the wild