We first opened our modest premises, the Brighton Bead Shop, in March 1986, with the idea of supplying not just glass beads but a vast, cosmopolitan mix of jewellery making supplies. It was an icy day notable for a three inch snow fall and we took less than £50.
[Hidepost=4]. Shops are more likely to stock your jewellery if you suggest a high percentage mark up for them (that is greater than 100%) if you try products with 150% – 200% mark up, then that is a nice profit for the shop owner. They are much more likely to buy if you present them with a unique selling point.
Please include a letter with your full name, phone number, mailing address, how long you've had the item and describe the problem even if it is obvious. Also include a copy of your receipt; if you do not have one available please inform us of the date and place of purchase.
Whether you choose a simple charm, like a ribbon or heart, or the initial letter of your first name, it’s easy to personalize your necklace with the perfect statement piece. You can also go for a more elegant look with necklaces that feature gemstones like emeralds and sapphires. Jewelry and watches featuring diamond accents lend a timeless, sophisticated appearance to your outfit. But if it’s a fun, more approachable look you want, browse through the selection of fashion jewelry.
The Lanes in Brighton. If you're looking to put a creative edge into your shopping, Brighton Lanes offer a shopper’s paradise of independent shops and boutiques.
Pandora compatible beads for bracelets are all the rage nowadays. If you have been thinking about starting a Pandora compatible beads bracelet or adding some theme charms to an existing piece, our enormous selection of glass, sterling silver, and Swarovski crystal beads and charms is the perfect place for you to look.
Placing an order is easy. Just click on the product category you wish to browse, select an item, add it to your cart and checkout. Or, if you know the name or style number of the product you would like to order online, type it into the search box in the upper right hand corner of the screen.