Circulation. Arthropods have an open circulatory system. A well-developed heart pumps blood through arteries that branch and enter the tissues. Blood leaves the blood vessels and moves through sinuses, or cavities. The blood then collects in a large sinus surronding the heart, then it re-enters the heart and is pumped throughout the body. 
ExcretionExcretion is the process whereby an organism eliminates metabolic wastes and unwanted chemicals from its system. Metabolism is the sum total of all the chemical reactions occurring in the cells and body. Some products of these metabolic reactions are toxic and so must be processed or eliminated from the body. Excretion is also important in eliminating excess water and other unwanted chemicals that may be ingested and enter the body fluids, such as plant poisons and excess salts.One of the main functions of excretion is to remove excess nitrogen.
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. 1 Myriapods comprise millipedes, centipedes, and their relatives and have many body segments, each bearing one or two pairs of legs. 2  They are sometimes grouped with the hexapods. 3  Crustaceans are primarily aquatic (a notable exception being woodlice) and are characterised by having biramous
Aquatic Arthropoda EXCRETORY system. Aquatic arthropods use a series of metabolic reactions to convert nitrogen to ammonia. Ammonia is extremely toxic so it has to be watered down so the organism does not die. This watered down ammonia is then excreted through a permeable membrane, often times the gills. Horseshoe crabs (Limulidae) are another example of arthropods. They use a mix of methods to excrete wastes from both terrestrial and aquatic arthropods. They secrete wastes through the gills while at the same time are able to excrete feces through and anus and excrete urine as well by using kidneys.
Spiders (Araneae) are one type of arthropod. They use the Malpighian Tubule System and excrete their wastes through an anus. Some older species of spiders even use small kidneys, but this requires much water. Horseshoe crabs (Limulidae) are another example of arthropods. They use a mix of methods to excrete wastes from both terrestrial and aquatic arthropods. They secrete wastes through the gills while at the same time are able to excrete feces through and anus and excrete urine as well by using kidneys.
Arthropod Excretory System. Arthropods have a excretory system that they use and get rid of wastes through their anus. The Arthropods have malpighian tubes and coxal glands that will collect wastes from their blood and put it into the intestines. This allows all waste to leave out of the anus. This process takes place because of the lack of kidneys.
The arthropod body plan consists of segments, each with a pair of appendages. The rigid cuticle inhibits growth, so arthropods replace it periodically by moulting. Their versatility has enabled them to become the most species-rich members of all ecological guilds in most environments. 1 Myriapods comprise millipedes, centipedes, and their relatives and have many body segments, each bearing one or two pairs of legs. 2  They are sometimes grouped with the hexapods. 3  Crustaceans are primarily aquatic (a notable exception being woodlice) and are characterised by having biramous
Terrestrial arthropods use a system called the Malpighian Tubule System to remove wastes from their bodies. It is made up of branching tubules which connect to the blood stream. Keep in mind that arthropods do not have blood but a blood equivalent called hemolymph which is a mix of blood, intercellular fluid, and lymph. Horseshoe crabs (Limulidae) are another example of arthropods. They use a mix of methods to excrete wastes from both terrestrial and aquatic arthropods. They secrete wastes through the gills while at the same time are able to excrete feces through and anus and excrete urine as well by using kidneys.
Arthropods use their exoskeleton as protection because it provides a hard exterior. However, an arthropod must molt its exoskeleton periodically since the exoskelton does not grow with it. An arthropod is at its most vulnerable just after molting its exoskelton since it takes time to harden. 