How to Set Up Your Fitbit on a Computer. 1. Go to www.fitbit.com/setup and download and install Fitbit Connect. 2. Select Set Up a New Fitbit Device. 3. Indicate if you are a new user or if you already have a Fitbit account. 4. Fill in your personal information. 5. Select the tracker you have. 6. Plug in the included USB dongle and place your Fitbit near it to being the pairing process. 7. Follow the instructions on the screen. 8
You can update your tracker using Fitbit Connect on your computer or by using one of the Fitbit mobile apps. We recommend keeping your One up to date. Updating One on a computer To update your One on a Mac or PC: 1. Make sure your wireless sync dongle is plugged into your computer and your One is charged. 2. Click the Fitbit Connect icon near the time on your computer. 3. Select Open Main Menu, and then select Check for device update. To restart your One: 1. Plug your charging cable into your computer. 2. Plug your One tracker into the charging cable, making sure that the gold contacts on your tracker align with the gold contacts in the inside of the charger. 3. Hold down your tracker's button for 10-12 seconds.
4.6k Views. Create a user on your computer for yourself. Log onto that user and run the 'fitbit connect' application from the folder 'Program Files x86'. It is then straight forward to setup another fitbit account on the PC for your new tracker. I haven't done the next bit yet, but I suspect to access the new account from the iphone, you'd have to log out of your husbandsfitbit account on the iphone then log in again as yourself. Bit messy. If you want to sync a specific Fitbit, you can sign in with your Fitbit email address and password in the app. Written 3 Jan, 2015 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Sharon Odle Cooksey. Related Questions. More Answers Below.
Needless to say, it is rather cumbersome to switch trackers on the fly with this method. Starting today, you can now keep multiple trackers paired to your account, and they all will continue to sync. Wear your Surge on a hike, take the Charge HR to work, use the One when you have to dress up – the choice is yours. For Android and iOS, the app uses programming to determine which is the active tracker. 
Multiple devices can coexist in the same household and can sync to the same base station or multiple base stations. In your house, at a minimum, you will only need to hook up one base station to a computer. Yes totally. The handy base station was created so that multiple units within the same household, or workplace, could easily sync with no interference of accounts and activity. So sync away... you and another, or you and 5 others can all sync to one base so long as they were initially paired correctly. Go Fitbit
The Fitbit app for Mac OS X and Windows will sync any nearby Fitbit tracker. Each Fitbit tracker has a unique id and data is transmitted encrypted, so Fitbit knows which user the data belongs to. If you want to sync a specific Fitbit, you can sign in with your Fitbit email address and password in the app. Written 3 Jan, 2015 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Sharon Odle Cooksey. Related Questions. More Answers Below.