Mitral valve regurgitation means that one of the valves in your heart-the mitral valve-is letting blood leak backward into the heart. Heart valves work like one-way gates, helping blood flow in one direction between heart chambers or in and out of the heart. The mitral valve is on the left side of your heart. 
The mitral valve (also known as the bicuspid valve or left atrioventricular valve) is a dual-flap (bi-from the Latin, meaning double, and mitral-from the Latin, meaning shaped like a mitre) valve in the heart that lies between the left atrium (LA) and the left ventricle (LV). 
In this article. Mitral valve prolapse is a common cause of a heart murmur caused by a leaky heart valve. Most cases of mitral valve prolapse are not serious and only need to be monitored. Mitral valve prolapse is associated with many other symptoms and conditions. For most people with mitral valve prolapse, the cause is unknown. Mitral valve prolapse can run in families. It can also be caused by conditions in which cartilage is abnormal (connective tissue disease).
Chest pain is the most frequent symptom in people who have symptoms with mitral valve prolapse. The chest pain may be very bothersome and frightening, but it does not increase the risk of heart attack, death, or other heart problems. Mitral valve prolapse is the most common cause of mitral regurgitation. That's a condition in which some blood flows backward through the mitral valve with each heartbeat. Over years, moderate or severe mitral regurgitation can cause weakness of the heart muscle, known as congestive heart failure. For most people with mitral valve prolapse, the cause is unknown. Mitral valve prolapse can run in families. It can also be caused by conditions in which cartilage is abnormal (connective tissue disease).
Any disease of the mitral valve which is a heart valve that regulates the flow of blood between the two left chambers of the heart i.e. ... more 1  ». Mitral valve disease: Any disease that affects the mitral valve. Any disease of the mitral valve which is a heart valve that regulates the flow of blood between the two left chambers of the heart i.e. ... more ».
Mitral valve disease refers to conditions of the mitral valve. Located between the left chambers of your heart, this valve works to keep blood flowing properly. When your mitral valve does not work properly, you can experience symptoms such as fatigue and shortness of breath because the defective valve is allowing blood to flow backwards into the left atrium.
Mitral valve prolapse (or floppy mitral valve syndrome, systolic click murmur syndrome or billowing mitral leaflet) is a valvular heart disease characterized by the displacement of an abnormally thickened mitral valve leaflet into the left atrium during systole. 
In mitral valve disease, the mitral valve, which is located between your left heart chambers (left atrium and left ventricle), doesn't work properly. Types of mitral valve disease include: Mitral valve regurgitation. In this condition, the flaps (leaflets) of the mitral valve don't close tightly, causing blood to leak backward into the left atrium of your heart. If not treated, it can result in heart muscle damage. The most common cause of blood leakage is mitral valve prolapse, in which the leaflets bulge back into the left atrium as your heart contracts. 1  Mitral valve stenosis. 2  In this condition, the flaps of the mitral valve become thick or stiff, and they may fuse together.
Mitral (MI-tral) valve prolapse (MVP) is a condition in which the heart's mitral valve doesn't work well. The flaps of the valve are floppy and don't close tightly. These flaps normally help seal or open the valve. Much of the time, MVP doesn't cause any problems. 