Etymology & Historical Origin-Drake. The name Drake is the transferred use of a surname of Anglo-Saxon origin which developed from a nickname. In Olde English the word “Draca” meant ‘dragon, snake’ which became Drake in Middle English. In Old Norse, the word “draci” meant the same thing. Drake-We cannot find any well-known or significantly popular songs featuring the name Drake. Drake Bell & Josh Peck (Joanne Mattern) - Drake Bell and Josh Peck grew up on opposite sides of the country, but they came together when they both appeared Nickelodeon s The Amanda Show.
Drake is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#506 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Drake for boys. From Drakon (Greek) or draca, the medieval term for dragon. Originally Drake designated the man who kept the inn with the dragon trademark, or the Sign of the Dragon. English explorer Sir Francis Drake.
Drake /dra-ke/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced drayk. It is of Middle English origin, and the meaning of Drake is dragon. From Drakon (Greek) or draca, the medieval term for dragon. Originally Drake designated the man who kept the inn with the dragon trademark, or the Sign of the Dragon. English explorer Sir Francis Drake.
Origin of the name Drake: Transferred use of the English surname meaning “dweller at the sign of the drake or dragon.”. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Drake: | Edit. Drake and Radek are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters. Straight Upright Rightous, Dull, Not Very Creative. Male Duck.
The name Drake is the transferred use of a surname of Anglo-Saxon origin which developed from a nickname. In Olde English the word “Draca” meant ‘dragon, snake’ which became Drake in Middle English. Drake-We cannot find any well-known or significantly popular songs featuring the name Drake. Drake Bell & Josh Peck (Joanne Mattern) - Drake Bell and Josh Peck grew up on opposite sides of the country, but they came together when they both appeared Nickelodeon s The Amanda Show.
From an English surname derived from the Old Norse given name Draki or the Old English given name Draca both meaning dragon. It coincides with the unrelated English word drake meaning male duck. Popularity. 
English: from the Old English byname Draca, meaning ‘snake’ or ‘dragon’, Middle English Drake, or sometimes from the Old Norse cognate Draki. Both are common bynames and, less frequently, personal names. 
English Meaning: The name Drake is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Drake is: Dragon. Greek Meaning: The name Drake is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Drake is: Dragon. American Meaning: The name Drake is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Drake is: Dragon.
This unusual and interesting name has two possible origins, the first and most generally applicable being of Anglo-Saxon origin, from the Olde English pre 7th Century byname or nickname Draca, meaning dragon or snake, in Middle English Drake, Old Norse Draki. The name may also be from the Middle English drake male of the duck. Sir Francis Drake (1540 - 1596) is perhaps the most famous name-bearer, defeating the Spanish Armada in 1588.