Inflammation is a process in which the body's white blood cells and immune proteins help protect us from infection and foreign substances such as bacteria and viruses. In some diseases, however, the body's defense system (immune system) triggers an inflammatory response when there are no foreign substances to fight off. Some, but not all types of arthritis, are the result of misdirected inflammation. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis.
Many experts now see inflammation as arising from an immune system response that’s out of control. When you catch a cold or sprain your ankle, your immune system switches into gear. Infection or injury trigger a chain of events called the inflammatory cascade. The familiar signs of normal inflammation — heat, pain, redness, and swelling — are the first signals that your immune system is being called into action.
Inflammation is part of the body’s immune response; without it, we can't heal. But when it's out of controlas in rheumatoid arthritisit can damage the body. Plus, it's thought to play a role in obesity, heart disease, and cancer. Foods high in sugar and saturated fat can spur inflammation. 
Inflammation (Latin, inflammatio) is part of the complex biological response of body tissues to harmful stimuli, such as pathogens, damaged cells, or irritants. Inflammation is a protective response that involves immune cells, blood vessels, and molecular mediators. The purpose of inflammation is to eliminate the initial cause of cell injury, clear out necrotic cells and tissues damaged from the original insult and the inflammatory process, and to initiate tissue repair. The classical signs of acute inflammation are pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
Causes of Inflammation. Inflammation can be caused by a number of factors that can damage cells but is broadly divided into 1  : Physical – can be mechanical as in a car accident injury or assault or environmental like severe cold and heat (burns). 2  Chemical – for example: Acid ‘burns’, drugs, venom. Inflammation is a process and not a disease, however it may require treatment if it continues to persist or is causing significant discomfort in the lack of any threat to tissue integrity. In chronic conditions, inflammation is usually persistent but low grade, with occasional acute aggravations.
Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues. The purpose of inflammation is to eliminate the initial cause of cell injury, clear out necrotic cells and tissues damaged from the original insult and the inflammatory process, and to initiate tissue repair. The classical signs of acute inflammation are pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function.
When inflammation occurs, chemicals from the body's white blood cells are released into the blood or affected tissues to protect your body from foreign substances. This release of chemicals increases the blood flow to the area of injury or infection, and may result in redness and warmth. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in the joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include the following: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis.
Inflammation is a process by which the body's white blood cells and substances they produce protect us from infection with foreign organisms, such as bacteria and viruses. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in the joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include the following: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis.
When inflammation occurs, chemicals from the body are released into the blood or affected tissues. This release of chemicals increases the blood flow to the area of injury or infection and may result in redness and warmth. Some of the chemicals cause a leak of fluid into the tissues, resulting in swelling. Some, but not all types of arthritis, are the result of misdirected inflammation. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis.
Inflammation is a vital part of the body's immune response. It is the body's attempt to heal itself after an injury; defend itself against foreign invaders, such as viruses and bacteria; and repair damaged tissue. Without inflammation, wounds would fester and infections could become deadly. 