I had some Fuji apples getting old, so I searched for an apple pie recipe. I found an actual Fuji recipe. This is my first pie ever. I used just about 20% less sugar on the filling, as most apple pies are so sweet, and you can’t taste anything but sugar. Pastry for crust (see below). Prepare the apples: Peel, core and slice 5 Fuji apples into pieces 1/8 inch thick. To keep the apple slices from turning brown, do the apples one at a time and drop the slices directly into a bowl of water suffused with 1 Tablespoon of lemon juice. Set aside while you make the pastry.
Fuji apples on a display in a supermarket. Fuji apples are typically round and range from large to very large, averaging 75 mm in diameter. They contain between 9–11% sugars by weight and have a dense flesh that is sweeter and crisper than many other apple cultivars, making them popular with consumers around the world. Fuji apples also have a very long shelf life compared to other apples, even without refrigeration. With refrigeration, Fuji apples can remain fresh for up to a year. In Japan, Fuji apples continue to be an unrivaled best-seller.
As such, each part deserves respect. What I want in my apple pie filling is first and foremost apples that are completely tender, yet stay in distinct chunks with just a bit of al dente bite to them. Apples that turn to mush or worse, are mealy can ruin a good pie for me. Which is useful, for sure, but a pie without filling is, well, sort of like a bathtub without water in it: boring and functionless. Turns out that that article was merely the start of a three-part epic on pie. So for the next two week's worth of articles here at the Food Lab, we're going to talk apple pie filling.
Fuji apples are the successful cross of two American varieties, the Red Delicious and Virginia Ralls Janet. Their name was given to them as homage to Japan’s most sacred mountain, Mount Fuji. Fuji apples contain vitamins A and C as well trace amounts of folate and potassium. They are a good source of both soluble and insoluble fiber, which has been shown to help prevent heart disease and promote healthy digestion.
The Fuji apple is an apple hybrid developed by growers at the Tohoku Research Station (農林省園芸試験場東北支場) in Fujisaki, Aomori, Japan, in the late 1930s, and brought to market in 1962. Fuji apples also have a very long shelf life compared to other apples, even without refrigeration. With refrigeration, Fuji apples can remain fresh for up to a year. In Japan, Fuji apples continue to be an unrivaled best-seller.
Apple varieties-which apple to pick and why! 2013 looks to have apples ripening on their normal schedule, and the excessive rain in many area is a mixed blessing: the apples become larger, but the water may dilute their flavor. 
Fuji apples are grown in traditional apple-growing states such as Washington, Michigan, New York, and California. Washington State, where more than half of America's apple crop is grown, produces about 135,000 tons of Fuji apples each year, third in volume behind Red Delicious and Golden Delicious varieties. Fuji apples also have a very long shelf life compared to other apples, even without refrigeration. With refrigeration, Fuji apples can remain fresh for up to a year. In Japan, Fuji apples continue to be an unrivaled best-seller.
1 Tablespoon of butter. Pastry for crust (see below). Prepare the apples: Peel, core and slice 5 Fuji apples into pieces 1/8 inch thick. To keep the apple slices from turning brown, do the apples one at a time and drop the slices directly into a bowl of water suffused with 1 Tablespoon of lemon juice. Set aside while you make the pastry.