Starch is a molecule in plants used as a storage of glucose or energy for later use. When animals digest starch they break it down into glucose monomers and used for energy. I … n terms of a starch equivalent in animals, fat is used to store energy as starch is in plants. sugar Starch is a carbohydrate.Starch is broken down into moltose or glucose. Starch is broken down into glucose by enzymes during digestion.  Starch is a polysaccharid … e that must be broken down into a simple  sugar called a monosaccharide. Glucose is a monosaccharide.
Starch is found in potatoes, and in grains such as corn and wheat. Starch is made up of glucose repeat units. Click on the glucose to see it in 3-D. In your body, special proteins called enzymes (which are also polymers, by the way) break starch down into glucose, so your body can burn it for energy. If you're eating a healthy diet, you get most of your energy from starch in this way.
This polysaccharide is produced by most green plants as an energy store. It is the most common carbohydrate in human diets and is contained in large amounts in staple foods such as potatoes, wheat, maize (corn), rice, and cassava. Starch is the most common carbohydrate in the human diet and is contained in many staple foods. The major sources of starch intake worldwide are the cereals (rice, wheat, and maize) and the root vegetables (potatoes and cassava).
Supplement. All plant seeds and tubers contain starch which is predominantly present as amylose and amylopectin. Plants use starch as a way to store excess glucose, and thus also use starch as food during mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Animals do not store excess glucose as starch; they store them as glycogen. 
starch. 1. A carbohydrate that is the chief form of stored energy in plants, especially wheat, corn, rice, and potatoes. Starch is a kind of polysaccharide and forms a white, tasteless powder when purified. It is an important source of nutrition and is also used to make adhesives, paper, and textiles. 2.
Best Answer: Starch is a complex carbohydrate which is insoluble in water; it is used by plants as a way to store excess glucose. Starch is by far the most important of the polysaccharides. It constitutes more than half the carbohydrates even in affluent diets, and much more in poorer diets. Starch (CAS# 9005-25-8) is a complex carbohydrate which is insoluble in water; it is used by plants as a way to store excess glucose. Starch is by far the most important of the polysaccharides.
Pure starch is a white, tasteless and odorless powder that is insoluble in cold water or alcohol. It consists of two types of molecules: the linear and helical amylose and the branched amylopectin. Depending on the plant, starch generally contains 20 to 25% amylose and 75 to 80% amylopectin by weight. Glycogen, the glucose store of animals, is a more branched version of amylopectin. Starch is the most common carbohydrate in the human diet and is contained in many staple foods. The major sources of starch intake worldwide are the cereals (rice, wheat, and maize) and the root vegetables (potatoes and cassava).
Many sugar molecules linked together is a polysaccharide. Starch, therefore, is a polysaccharide. Specifically, starch is composed of the sugar glucose. Plants use glucose to produce energy, but they're not always making glucose, just as we're constantly eating to get our energy. Much like we store up energy reserves after eating, so do plants