Vaporizers: The easiest way to use marijuana. When choosing a vaporizer, there are many things to consider, including price, quality, and style. The prices are in the list below, and the reviews and ratings can give you a sense of quality. The style is also important, and there are a few common categories: 1  Portable (can fit in your pocket or purse)
Some vaporizers heat up the herb through conduction, which means the herbs are placed on a metal plate which is then heated. But direct contact with the hot metal can scorch the herbs. That is why this is not a preferred method, and is rarely employed in modern vaporizers. A vaporizer directs a flow of hot air through the plant material so the active components melt and create an aromatic vapor. Ideally this vapor doesn't contain any tars or unwanted gasses.
VaporNation is proud to offer vaporizers of all sizes and styles from our online warehouse. We carry a multitude of high-quality vaporizers that are available for anyone’s price range. Whether you want a sleek portable vaporizer for on the go, or a powerful plug-in vaporizer for home use, VaporNation has the options to suit any lifestyle. 
(Redirected from Vaporizer (cannabis)). A vaporization heat wand and vaporization chamber bowl used to deliver vapor through a water pipe. A vaporizer or vaporiser is a device used to vaporize the active ingredients of plant material, commonly cannabis, tobacco, or other herbs or blends for the purpose of inhalation. Vaporizers are also used to inhale marijuana. Of the studies about vaporizing marijuana, few have addressed the quality of the vapor extracted and delivered; instead, studies usually focus on the mode of usage of the vaporizers.
BUDGET. Although price and quality tend to be related, there are some excellent inexpensive vaporizers. Prices at VapeWorld range from $55 for the simple, yet effective VaporGenie up to $669 for the Volcano Digit, which some consider the Cadillac of vaporizers. The widest selection falls in the $150 - $300 price range which includes some of the most highly regarded units available. No matter how reliable your vaporizer is, there is always a chance that you will have to rely on the warranty. If you cannot afford to be without your vaporizer, you must have good warranty service. It is not enough to have a good warranty on paper; the service must live up to the guarantee.
A vaporizer is a device which is used to free the active components of medicinal or recreational herbs so they can be inhaled for immediate effects. Vaporizing is a cleaner, healthier and more efficient alternative to smoking and incensing. A vaporizer directs a flow of hot air through the plant material so the active components melt and create an aromatic vapor. Ideally this vapor doesn't contain any tars or unwanted gasses.
Unfortunately, all of the high quality vaporizers are going to be in this price range. If you go under $200, you are probably going to be looking at something that lacks in vapor quality/production, sturdiness, and just generally isn't going to match the ones in this category. 
If your budget is $50 to $100 for a vaporizer, you actually have more options than you probably think. Check out our 5 Best Cheap Portable Vaporizers page to see a list of quality, portable vaporizers that are right inside your price range. The DaVinci Vaporizer ($169.99) is one of the top portable vapes on the market for under $200, as is the Sonic Vaporizer ($179.99). You could also even go for a desktop vape, such as the Da Buddha Vaporizer ($189) or the Arizer V Tower ($149.99).
A vaporizer is a device that heats up dried herbs to a temperature at which they release their active components into an aromatic vapor. A vaporizer directs a flow of hot air through the plant material so the active components melt and create an aromatic vapor. Ideally this vapor doesn't contain any tars or unwanted gasses.