Synthesis [edit]. Quaternary ammonium compounds are prepared by the alkylation of tertiary amines with a halocarbon. In older literature this is often called a Menshutkin reaction, however modern chemists usually refer to it simply as quaternization. In di-quaternary ammonium compounds, this process can also result in the formation of fragment ions with higher mass as compared to their precursor ion.
Quaternary Ammonium Compounds. Overview. The quaternary ammonium compounds are widely used as disinfectants. Health-care–associated infections have been reported from contaminated quaternary ammonium compounds used to disinfect patient-care supplies or equipment, such as cystoscopes or cardiac catheters 741, 742. Uses. The quaternaries commonly are used in ordinary environmental sanitation of noncritical surfaces, such as floors, furniture, and walls. EPA-registered quaternary ammonium compounds are appropriate to use for disinfecting medical equipment that contacts intact skin (e.g., blood pressure cuffs).
For our purposes, more technically, the specific kind of chlorine compound used in liquid disinfectants is known as sodium hypochlorite, which is found in household bleach. Besides chlorine, another well-known category of disinfectants is known as quaternary ammonium compounds. Keep in mind, that chlorine can work equally well in different types of water hardness. This is not the case for quaternary ammonium compounds, whose capability to disinfect suffers with increasing water hardness. Namely, quaternary ammonium compounds can kill off enveloped viruses much better than non-enveloped viruses. You can liken a non-enveloped virus to one that has a hardy shell, like a nut, around its nucleic acid genome. An enveloped virus is surrounded by a thin membrane, kind of like a thin balloon.
Quaternary ammonium salts or quaternary ammonium compounds (called quaternary amines in oilfield parlance) are salts of quaternary ammonium cations. In di-quaternary ammonium compounds, this process can also result in the formation of fragment ions with higher mass as compared to their precursor ion.
Quaternary ammonium compounds are cationic detergents, as well as disinfectants, and as such can be used to remove organic material. They are very effective in combination with phenols. Quaternary ammonium compounds are deactivated by anionic detergents (including common soaps). In di-quaternary ammonium compounds, this process can also result in the formation of fragment ions with higher mass as compared to their precursor ion.
Some of the chemical names of quaternary ammonium compounds used in healthcare are alkyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride, alkyl didecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride, and dialkyl dimethyl ammonium chloride. Uses. The quaternaries commonly are used in ordinary environmental sanitation of noncritical surfaces, such as floors, furniture, and walls. EPA-registered quaternary ammonium compounds are appropriate to use for disinfecting medical equipment that contacts intact skin (e.g., blood pressure cuffs).
Check out what this chemical safety database says about quats: Quaternary ammonium compounds can cause toxic effects by all routes of exposure including inhalation, ingestion,dermal application and irrigation of body cavities. Exposure to diluted solutions can cause mild and self-limited irritation. Concentrated solutions of quaternary ammonium compounds are corrosive and can cause burns to the skin and the mucous membranes. They can produce systemic toxicity due to their curare-like properties. They can also cause allergic reactions. First, they are known to cause skin and respiratory irritation, and some people are highly allergic to them. Second, some quaternary ammonium compounds, like benzalkonium chloride, are phenolic and have been found to be endocrine disruptors, meaning they interfere with hormone function within the body.
Called quats for short, quaternary ammonium compounds are used commonly in hair conditioners, shampoos, and even lotions, to impart a slippery feel to the hair and skin. Quats are the chemicals that enable you to have a little dollop of conditioner and let it easily glide and be distributed throughout your hair. First, they are known to cause skin and respiratory irritation, and some people are highly allergic to them. Second, some quaternary ammonium compounds, like benzalkonium chloride, are phenolic and have been found to be endocrine disruptors, meaning they interfere with hormone function within the body.
The little-known chemicals, called quaternary ammonium compounds, or quats, are common ingredients of cleaners used by hospitals, restaurants and food processing plants. Quats also are found in some shampoos, disinfectant wipes and nasal sprays. These chemicals have been in widespread use for decades. 