Warren G. Harding, an Ohio Republican, was the 29th President of the United States (1921-1923). Though his term in office was fraught with scandal, including Teapot Dome, Harding embraced technology and was sensitive to the plights of minorities and women. Thirty-one distinguished Republicans had signed a manifesto assuring voters that a vote for Harding was a vote for the League. But Harding interpreted his election as a mandate to stay out of the League of Nations. Harding, born near Marion, Ohio, in 1865, became the publisher of a newspaper.
I don't think he would be the first. President Warren G. Harding had black ancestors, so based on the definition of race during his time he should rightly be considered a black man. Harding was no less a black man than Homer Plessy, Adam Clayton Powell, Walter White, or Charles Drew. -- Keith Samuels-New York, New York. 
Warren Gamaliel Harding (November 2, 1865 – August 2, 1923) was the 29th President of the United States, serving from March 4, 1921 until his death. Most of the scandals that have marred the reputation of Harding's administration did not emerge until after his death. The Veterans' Bureau scandal was known to Harding in January 1923, but according to Trani and Wilson, the president's handling of it did him little credit.
President Harding - 29th President of the United States; two of his appointees were involved in the Teapot Dome scandal (1865-1823). Harding, Warren Gamaliel Harding, Warren Harding. 
Warren Gamaliel Harding served as the twenty-ninth president of the United States, from 1921 to 1923. Harding, who also served one term in the U.S. Senate, presided over an administration that achieved little and that was tainted by political corruption. Harding was born November 2, 1865, on a farm at Caledonia (now Blooming Grove), Morrow County, Ohio, the eldest of eight children. He attended Ohio Central College
When Harding ran for the Republican nomination for president in 1920, he was considered an also-ran with little chance of success. The leading candidates, such as General Leonard Wood, could not gain a majority to secure the nomination, and the convention deadlocked. Most of the scandals that have marred the reputation of Harding's administration did not emerge until after his death. The Veterans' Bureau scandal was known to Harding in January 1923, but according to Trani and Wilson, the president's handling of it did him little credit.
From the Image Gallery... Warren Gamaliel Harding was the 19th President of the United States, serving from 1921 until his death in 1923. A Republican from Ohio, Harding worked as a newspaper publisher before entering politics. 
The Ohio Gang (1921-1924) was a gang of politicians and industry leaders closely surrounding Warren G. Harding, the 29th President of the United States of America. Many of these individuals came into Harding's personal orbit during his tenure as a state-level politician in Ohio, hence the name. Following Harding's sudden death of a heart attack in 1923, many members of the Ohio Gang were effectively removed from the corridors of power by Harding's Vice President and successor, Calvin Coolidge.
Definition of HARDING. Warren G(amaliel) 1865–1923 29th pres. of the United States (1921–23). ADVERTISEMENT.
President Harding - 29th President of the United States; two of his appointees were involved in the Teapot Dome scandal (1865-1823). Harding, Warren Gamaliel Harding, Warren Harding. 