Much like temperature sensors, placement of CO2 sensors should be based on the zone to be controlled and anticipated loads (e.g. common occupancy density and patterns). For optimum control, there should be a CO2 sensor placed in every location where temperature controls are used. If an HVAC system is serving a series of zones with similar occupancy patterns, sensors placed in the return air ducting may be appropriate.
These sensors measure and control the amount of CO present in a location. The unit can act as stand alone controller with either relay output for DOL fan operation or 0 to 10VDC or 4 to20mA outputs for directly controlling variable speed fans.
A. The design and location of the gas detector has much to do with the maximum area one detector can properly cover. A correctly positioned and mounted Brasch gas detector is designed to provide coverage over an area of 7000 to 9000 square feet when placed in a building with a ceiling height of 13 feet or less.
The number of CO detectors spaced evenly across the garage is in line with the maximum area which can be covered by each detector. SUPPLY DUCT CO SENSOR EXHAUST FAN SUPPLY FAN EXHAUST FAN CO SENSOR FIGURE 1 Automation Components, Inc.
Our hardwired CO detectors with RealTest use electrochemical sensors to measure carbon monoxide levels and alert residents with a flashing Temp-4 signal alarm—but that’s not all. System-connected carbon monoxide detectors offer guaranteed 24/7 central station protection, whether residents are home or not.
In many applications, ramp CO detectors must be provided in addition to the CO detectors distributed across the area. There should always be a CO detector located near the Pay Booth (where applicable). The specific gravity of carbon monoxide is practically the same as the specific gravity of air.
Generally one sensor can serve up to 5,000 sq feet. Larger coverage is possible in theaters, gyms and large open retail spaces. An open office space with parameter offices can generally be controlled with one sensor in the central space (up to 5000 sq ft). In office building floor plates divided up into separate suites, at least one sensor per suite is recommended.
Test gas for Brasch carbon monoxide detectors should have a concentration of between 50 and 100 PPM. Test gas for nitrogen dioxide is not available in the 1 to 4 PPM concentration required to test detectors with nitrogen dioxide sensors.