Routers may go into ROM monitor (ROMmon) mode for any of these reasons: Boot failure. The setting of the virtual configuration register forces the router to stop in ROMmon mode during the boot. A break sequence is sent to the console. The console will normally ignore the break, except during the boot.
If you lose your router passwords then the only way to get back into enable mode is to reboot the router and quickly press the break key sequence. The router should then boot into rommon mode. To recover the router all you need to do is reset the configuration register to boot and skip the start up configuration. You may also have to break into rommon mode to perform a password recovery (see above). If you find yourself in rommon mode then you can issue a dir flash: command to see if there is an image available.
One area that can be confusing when using ROM Monitor and the Cisco IOS XR software is the area that defines the IP configuration for the Management Ethernet interface. Most router users get comfortable with configuring the Management Ethernet interface in the Cisco IOS XR software. When an RP is in ROM Monitor mode, you can access the ROM Monitor software only from a terminal connected directly to the console port of the card. Because the Cisco IOS XR software (EXEC mode) is not operating, the nonmanagement interfaces (such as POS interfaces) are not accessible.
It is sometimes called ROMMON because of the CLI prompt in ROM Monitor mode. The ROM Monitor software is also called the boot software, boot image, or boot helper. Although it is distributed with routers that use the Cisco IOS XR software, ROM Monitor is a separate program from the Cisco IOS XR software. When an RP is in ROM Monitor mode, you can access the ROM Monitor software only from a terminal connected directly to the console port of the card. Because the Cisco IOS XR software (EXEC mode) is not operating, the nonmanagement interfaces (such as POS interfaces) are not accessible.
If the router is stuck in ROMmon mode, the first setting that should be checked is the value of the configuration register. Configuring the Software Configuration Register. If your router keeps entering the ROMmon mode each time the system is restarted, it is probably due to the setting of the configuration register. The first thing you need to do then is to look for a valid Cisco IOS software image. To do this, issue the command for each available device, and look for a valid Cisco IOS software image. For example, to look for the IOS in the Flash, use the command shown below.
Rommon mode is the most basic capacity a router can function in. When a router boots into rommon mode it either means that it has no IOS image to boot from or that you have interrupted the router boot process with an interrupt key stroke. The key strokes on Windows are usually holding down the control and break keys (break can sometimes require a function key to be held down also). You may also have to break into rommon mode to perform a password recovery (see above). If you find yourself in rommon mode then you can issue a dir flash: command to see if there is an image available.
The ROM Monitor is a bootstrap program that initializes the hardware and boots the Cisco IOS XR software when you power on or reload a router. A version of the ROM Monitor software exists on each card. If the Cisco IOS XR software cannot boot on a card, the card startup ends in ROM Monitor mode. When an RP is in ROM Monitor mode, you can access the ROM Monitor software only from a terminal connected directly to the console port of the card. Because the Cisco IOS XR software (EXEC mode) is not operating, the nonmanagement interfaces (such as POS interfaces) are not accessible.
It is important to remember that ROM Monitor mode is a router mode, not a mode within the Cisco IOS XR software. It is best to remember that ROM Monitor software and the Cisco IOS XR software are two separate programs that run on the same router. When an RP is in ROM Monitor mode, you can access the ROM Monitor software only from a terminal connected directly to the console port of the card. Because the Cisco IOS XR software (EXEC mode) is not operating, the nonmanagement interfaces (such as POS interfaces) are not accessible.
ROMMON or also known as bootstrap program is you can say a mini operating system in the Cisco devices that helps to initialize the processor hardware and boot the operating system software (Cisco IOS). It's because you can only access the ROMMON using the console connection i.e. through terminal monitor. You can access the ROMMON mode by changing the configuration register of the device using the break button on your keyboard.