The Environmental Protection Act 1990 defines a statutory noise nuisance as 'noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance'. We have to take a range of facts into account when we decide if a noise is a 'statutory nuisance': 
What can be a statutory nuisance. Issues that may be a statutory nuisance include: 1  noise from premises or from vehicles, equipment or machinery in the street. 2  smoke from premises. 3  smells from industry, trade or business premises (for example, sewage treatment works, factories or restaurants). 4  artificial light from premises. First published: Part of: Environmental permits and Environmental management. Applies to: England. What counts as a statutory nuisance and how councils can deal with complaints by issuing an abatement notice.
For the issue to count as a statutory nuisance it must do one of the following: 1  unreasonably and substantially interfere with the use or enjoyment of a home or other premises. 2  injure health or be likely to injure health. First published: Part of: Environmental permits and Environmental management. Applies to: England. What counts as a statutory nuisance and how councils can deal with complaints by issuing an abatement notice.
Section 79 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 lists the issues that can be dealt with as statutory nuisances: 1  Premises or animals kept in a poor condition; 2  Noise-such as barking dogs, crowing cockerels, music and stereo equipment etc.; 
The Council can help to deal with pollution that amounts to a ‘statutory nuisance’ under the Environmental Protection Act 1990. To be a statutory nuisance something must be either prejudicial to health or a nuisance in common law terms. What constitutes a statutory nuisance is not easily defined. However, in general terms, it is something that interferes unreasonably with your enjoyment of your property, a regular disturbance that continues sufficiently to be deemed 'unreasonable'.
Noise pollution. The EPA 1990 provides control over Statutory Nuisances, including noise nuisances. Under the EPA 1990 the local council have a duty to respond to complaints of noise nuisance and when satisfied that one exists take the appropriate action to abate it. This is not an easy thing to define. For a noise to be considered as a statutory nuisance it would be something that interferes unreasonably with your enjoyment of your property. Factors considered include: Level of noise, frequency of occurrence, time of day, duration, nature of the area etc.
members area. This section deals with noise abatement notices and noise nuisance issues; it will primarily be of interest to those within the jurisdiction of the Statutory Legislation of England and Wales and to a lesser extent those of Northern Ireland and Scotland. You can also read the information neighbour and other nuisance on the compact law site (type noise into search box) or a new site. A detailed explanation of statutory nuisance follows. The following advice is general in nature, please read the Terms and Conditions of Use of this site before proceeding.
What Exactly is a Statutory Nuisance. There is no specific definition of a statutory nuisance, other than matters which are prejudicial to health or a nuisance.
With regard to the term nuisance there is no specific definition in the act so the tests as at common law apply. A definition often used in Court is: A nuisance is a material interference with a person's use or enjoyment of their land or property. There is no specific definition of a statutory nuisance, other than matters which are prejudicial to health or a nuisance.
A statutory nuisance is not simply something that annoys you-it is something that causes a serious and unreasonable interference with your right to enjoy your property, or damages your health in terms of the threat of disease, rather than the risk of injury. Statutory nuisance is a criminal offence. We have a duty to take reasonable steps to investigate allegations of statutory nuisance. We have to make a decision based on what the average reasonable person would find unacceptable, and cannot take into account individual sensitivities or personal circumstances related to ill health.