The Tasting of Madeira Wine. Some general thoughts about Madeira wine tasting. To be able to assess a wine most objectively, it is important to mind a few things. The setting has to provide you with the best possible conditions for tasting. Often found colors in a Madeira wine are tawny (like in a tawny Port), orange, mahogany (a rather cold brown, sometimes almost a little purple), iodine (a warmer color then mahogany), bronze, amber, gold, even yellow and green. Of course the color should be judged against a white background.
As demonstrated in the chapter about the making of Madeira, most of the wine is blended. Therefore a three year old Madeira will only say that the youngest wine in this blend has an age of three years. Some by far older wines might be in it as well, to rounden the taste. In a solera the given year indicates the starting year of the solera. The top of Madeira wines is the vintage wine, also called Frasqueira. Wine of one grape variety and of one year is kept in cask for a minimum of twenty years and then for another two years in bottle. However these are just the minimum regulations and most of the companies will skip the two years in bottle anyway.
1 Reserve, that oft-abused wine labeling term, has different meaings in Madeira. 2  Reserve wines are between 5-10 years of age, Special Reserve is 10-15 years old and undergo a higher quality winemaking process, Extra Reserve is 15-20 years in age. It gets its name from the island of Madeira, a small, beautiful rock in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. Madeira’s unique taste comes from repeatedly heating the wine. The heating creates a wine with fascinating flavors of roasted nuts, stewed fruit, caramel, and toffee.
Today, Madeira is noted for its unique winemaking process which involves heating the wine up to temperatures as high as 60 °C (140 °F) for an extended period of time and deliberately exposing the wine to some levels of oxidation. 1 Colheita or Harvest – This style includes wines from a single vintage, but aged for a shorter period than true Vintage Madeira. 2  The wine can be labeled with a vintage date, but includes the word colheita on it. 3  Vintage or Frasqueira – This style must be aged at least 20 years.
Madeira wine is made much in the same way as Sherry and Port wine in that the fermentation is halted at some point by the addition of a neutral grape spirit (brandy) which fortifies the alcohol level, stopping fermentation. Madeira wine is a fortified wine produced on the Madeira Islands, an archipelago of Portugal in the north Atlantic Ocean.
Madeira is a fortified Portuguese wine made in the Madeira Islands. Madeira is produced in a variety of styles ranging from dry wines which can be consumed on their own as an aperitif, to sweet wines more usually consumed with dessert. Cheaper versions are often flavoured with salt and pepper for use in cooking. 1 Colheita or Harvest – This style includes wines from a single vintage, but aged for a shorter period than true Vintage Madeira. 2  The wine can be labeled with a vintage date, but includes the word colheita on it. 3  Vintage or Frasqueira – This style must be aged at least 20 years.
Because of this unique process, Madeira is a very robust wine that can be quite long lived even after being opened. Some wines produced in small quantities in Crimea, California and Texas are also referred to as Madeira or Madera, although those wines do not conform to the EU PDO regulations. 1 Colheita or Harvest – This style includes wines from a single vintage, but aged for a shorter period than true Vintage Madeira. 2  The wine can be labeled with a vintage date, but includes the word colheita on it. 3  Vintage or Frasqueira – This style must be aged at least 20 years.
MARSALA SUBSTITUTE: The best substitute for Marsala wine is Madeira because of the similar taste profile. If you can’t find Madeira either, you might try simmering 1 part brandy with 2 parts white wine, brown sugar and a touch of salt. It can be made dry and fine enough for sipping, like Sherry or Madeira. Right now Marsala is undervalued. We hope to bring you up to speed on this unique wine that has some striking taste similarities to Madeira wine.
Learn about Madeira wine: from how it tastes, to the different styles and to advice on Madeira in cooking and cocktails. Madeira is one of the few wines that hasn’t changed since it became popular over 200 years ago. It gets its name from the island of Madeira, a small, beautiful rock in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. Madeira’s unique taste comes from repeatedly heating the wine. The heating creates a wine with fascinating flavors of roasted nuts, stewed fruit, caramel, and toffee.
Madeira sauce is a rich peppery sauce which is traditionally made with Madeira wine and served with meats like roast beef and chicken. The sauce is a bit complex, and it can take a long time to make Madeira in the traditional way, but the time investment is worth the flavor. 