While Eleanor is often attributed to a variant of the Greek name Helen, which means sunlight, there are many other possible origins of this name including Germanic, Lati … n, and alternate Greek sources.
Eleanor. Eleanor /elean-or/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced EL-a-nor. It is of Old French and Old German origin, and the meaning of Eleanor is other, foreign. From an Old French respelling of the Proven al name Alienor, from German ali, though sometimes it is taken as a variant of Helen. Eleanor is a very popular first name for women (#148 out of 4276, Top 3%) but a unique surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Eleanor for girls. Eleanor reached its peak rank of #29 in the U.S. during the years 1920-1929, and is currently at #78.
The girl's name Eleanor \e-lea-nor\ is pronounced EL-a-nor. It is of Greek origin, and its meaning is shining light. Eleanor has 9 variant forms: Eleanora, Eleni, Eleonora, Eleonore, Elinor, Ella, Elnora, Leonora and Nelly. Source(s): http://www.thinkbabynames.com/meaning/0/...ometimes considered a derivative of Helen. Introduced to England in the 12th century by Eleanor of Aquitaine, who came from France to wed King Henry II. Number 2: It is of Greek origin, and its meaning is shining light or light and is a variant of Helen.
Eleanor is a derivative of the English name Helen. Eleanor is a popular baby girl name, and it is also regarded as trendy. At the height of its usage in 1915, 0.687% of baby girls were named Eleanor. It was #28 in rank then.
The name Eleanor is derived from the French form of the Provencal name Alienor. One of the most famous and first users of the name was Eleanor of Aquitaine (12th century). She was named Aenor after her mother, and was called by the Proven al phrase alia Aenor the other Aenor in order to distinguish her from her mother.leanor is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced E-le-nor. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 78 in baby name popularity for girls with 3704 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
Eleanor (usually pronounced /ˈɛlənɔr/ in North America but /ˈɛlənə/ elsewhere, variants Elinor, Ellinor, Elenor, Eleanore, Eleanour, Eleonor(a) among others; short form Leonor and variants) is a feminine given name. Eleanor of Normandy (11th century), aunt of William the Conqueror, was so named by the 17th-century genealogist Pierre de Guibours, but de Guibours' sources for this remain unknown and the application of this name may be a mistake of his.
The name Eleanor is of French origin, and it means Of Unknown Meaning . It's a name commonly given to girls. Elle MacPherson is a model.
Eleanor is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced E-le-nor. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 78 in baby name popularity for girls with 3704 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.