Wax bean is a species that belongs to the phaseolus family and it is related with the dragon tongue beans and green beans and it is similar in taste to the yard long green bean. I think half the reason people read this blog is because they can't believe it's called waxed bean.. I didn't realize it, honestly, until about 7 months into this project, when speaking to a college classmate at an alumni event, that waxed bean has some phallic connotation.
All About Wax Beans. Closely related to green beans, wax beans differ in their color, which can be vibrant yellow or dark purple and, as their name suggests, in that their texture is slightly waxier. Like green beans, wax beans are enjoyed whole with pod and seeds, and they taste mild and fresh with sweet, grassy overtones. Selecting. Purchasing wax beans is much like purchasing green beans. Look for beans that are evenly colored, free of brown spots, and snap when broken. The skin of their pods will be thinner and more velvety, and depending on their variety, choose ones that are light to deep yellow or dark purple.
Yellow Wax beans are a member of the Fabaceae family, along with common beans, pulses and peas. Yellow Wax is a given name to dozens of wax bush bean varieties that individually simply happen to have different shades of yellow in appearance and variance in waxiness depending on the cultivar. Yellow Wax beans are nearly identical to Green beans in all aspects except for color.
Wax beans are a type of edible bean known for their bright yellow coloration. Similar in taste to string or green beans, wax beans can be used in a variety of dishes and may be eaten cooked or raw. Also known as butter beans, they are typically harvested in late spring and early summer, and grow in temperate areas. Ad. Wax beans can be used as a substitute in any recipe where green beans or string beans are used. They make a delicious addition to salads, soups, and pasta dishes. Their pleasant color creates a lovely contrast to regular green beans, so consider using half wax and half green beans in a recipe to add visual appeal.
You probably mean to ask about Wax Beans, a type of string bean with yellow pods, very similar to Green Beans. The beans are picked while young, before the pods mature and dry. The whole pod is boiled and eaten. Numerous varieties of Dry Beans are left on the vine to mature. 
Wax beans, which are pale yellow in color, are a type of snap bean with a slightly mild flavor, similar to green beans. They are at the peak of their season from late July to late September. Buying and Storing. Look for crisp beans that snap when you break them. They should be free of wrinkles, bruises, and spots. 
Wax beans are a type of bright yellow edible bean. Wax beans can be used as a substitute for green beans when called for in a recipe. Lightly steamed wax beans can add crunch to a leafy green salad. Ad. Wax beans can be used as a substitute in any recipe where green beans or string beans are used. They make a delicious addition to salads, soups, and pasta dishes. Their pleasant color creates a lovely contrast to regular green beans, so consider using half wax and half green beans in a recipe to add visual appeal.
All you need to make the wax bean soup is onions, parsley, butter, wax beans, vegetable juice, water, milk, wheat flour and a bit of sour cream. To start, all you need to do is saute the onions and parsley in some butter. Ad. Wax beans can be used as a substitute in any recipe where green beans or string beans are used. They make a delicious addition to salads, soups, and pasta dishes. Their pleasant color creates a lovely contrast to regular green beans, so consider using half wax and half green beans in a recipe to add visual appeal.
-July 2010. Wax bean is a species that belongs to the phaseolus family and it is related with the dragon tongue beans and green beans and it is similar in taste to the yard long green bean. Wax bean is also called butter bean, due to the fact that it presents yellow pods. Usually, the wax bean is colored in yellow, gold or purple and sometimes it is considered a more colored version of the immature green bean. Other given names are yellow bean and purple bean. I think half the reason people read this blog is because they can't believe it's called waxed bean.. I didn't realize it, honestly, until about 7 months into this project, when speaking to a college classmate at an alumni event, that waxed bean has some phallic connotation.
About Wax bean Edit. Wax bean is a specie that belongs to the phaseolus family and it is related with the dragon tongue beans and green beans and it is similar in taste to the yard long green bean. Wax bean is also called butter bean, due to the fact that it presents yellow pods. Usually, the wax bean is colored in yellow, gold or purple and sometimes it is considered a more colored version of the immature green bean. Other given names are yellow bean and purple bean.