Best Answer: Nuts do not contain any cholesterol, you only get cholesterol from animal or seafood sources. Nuts do contain unsaturated fatty acids which are good for you. The best nuts are unroasted ones, they also contain vitamin E which is lost in the roasting process. 
Cashews and Cholesterol. Cashews do not have any cholesterol in them. They are however, high in fat. The fat in cashews and other nuts may help to produce the good HDL that can prevent heart disease and associated clogged arteries. A diet rich in healthy fats and fiber, such as those found in whole grains, cashews and other nuts, may help to reduce LDL and increase HDL in the blood nearly as much as some cholesterol-lowering medications. Dietary cholesterol should be limited to less than 300 milligrams per day.
Healthy Fats. The unsaturated fats, which include polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat, can actually help to lower blood cholesterol levels giving them the distinction of “healthy” fats. Nuts in general are a good source of unsaturated fats. A 1 oz serving of cashew nuts contains 8 g of monounsaturated fat and 2 g of polyunsaturated fats. Eating cashews as a part of a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet can help to lower the risk for heart disease. A close-up of roasted and salted cashews. Photo Credit Voyagerix/iStock/Getty Images. The American Heart Association reports that 35.7 million adults in the United States suffer from high cholesterol levels, defined as a total serum cholesterol of 240 mg/dL or greater.
Cashews contain fatty acids that can help to reduce the risks of heart disease. The fat ratio in cashews is one part saturated fat, two parts monosaturated and one part polyunsaturated, a healthy ratio for increasing HDL cholesterol levels. A diet rich in healthy fats and fiber, such as those found in whole grains, cashews and other nuts, may help to reduce LDL and increase HDL in the blood nearly as much as some cholesterol-lowering medications. Dietary cholesterol should be limited to less than 300 milligrams per day.
Health Benefits. Not only do cashews have a lower fat content than most other nuts, approximately 82% of their fat is unsaturated fatty acids, plus about 66% of this unsaturated fatty acid content are heart-healthy monounsaturated fats, similar to those found in olive oil. Heart-Protective Monounsaturated Fats. Not only do cashews have a lower fat content than most other nuts, approximately 82% of their fat is unsaturated fatty acids, plus about 66% of this unsaturated fatty acid content are heart-healthy monounsaturated fats, similar to those found in olive oil.
The good news is that nuts are cholesterol-free. Only animal foods contain cholesterol. Even better news is nuts contain polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) and monounsaturated fats (MUFAs), both of which reduce cholesterol levels when consumed in moderation. A typical nut serving is 1 ounce, or 1/4 cup. Walnuts take the crown when it comes to polyunsaturated fat content
Although cashews contain a significant amount of fat, they make a good snack choice for their high protein content, 4 g per 1 oz serving, vitamin and mineral content and cholesterol-free status. Because the majority of the fat is “healthy” fat, eating tree nuts like cashews may help lower blood cholesterol levels. A close-up of roasted and salted cashews. Photo Credit Voyagerix/iStock/Getty Images. The American Heart Association reports that 35.7 million adults in the United States suffer from high cholesterol levels, defined as a total serum cholesterol of 240 mg/dL or greater.
1 Plant sterols. 2  Some nuts contain plant sterols, a substance that can help lower your cholesterol. 3  Plant sterols are often added to products like margarine and orange juice for additional health benefits, but sterols occur naturally in nuts. 4  L-arginine. 1 Omega-3 fatty acids are also found in many kinds of fish, but nuts are one of the best plant-based sources of omega-3 fatty acids. 2  Fiber. 3  All nuts contain fiber, which helps lower your cholesterol. 4  Fiber makes you feel full, so you eat less. 5  Fiber is also thought to play a role in preventing diabetes.
If you like to munch on a handful of cashews now and then, don't worry, this isn't likely to increase your cholesterol. Cashews provide 14 percent of the daily value for phosphorus and 12 percent of the DV for vitamin K per ounce, and, although they are high in fat, most of this fat is heart-healthy unsaturated fat. A study published in Archives of Internal Medicine in 2010 found that eating nuts helped lower total cholesterol, triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein, or bad cholesterol, with greater reductions in people who consumed more nuts. Different nuts had similar effects on cholesterol levels.