Level 3 Bonding can be described as a biological process in which animals of the same or different species socially connect. This can be for many different reasons. For example, pair bonding. This leads to mating and reproduction. Social bonding for example, Wolves. As a result it is able to recognise its own species which allows for the development of social bonds within the species Sexual Imprinting. This can best be described as a process by which the young animal learns the characteristics of a desirable mate.
fil·i·al. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or befitting a son or daughter: filial respect. 2. Having or assuming the relationship of child or offspring to parent. 3. Genetics Of or relating to a generation or the sequence of generations following the parental generation
by Roger Abrantes. Dog and Child in a bonding moment (photo by Elena Shumilova). Bonding in animal behavior is a biological process in which individuals of the same or different species develop a connection. The function of bonding is to facilitate co-operation. Parents and offspring develop strong bonds so that the former take care of the latter, and the latter accept the teachings of the former. As a result of filial bonding, offspring and parents or foster parents develop an attachment.
In the case of domestic animals, filial imprinting may occur, but maternal recognition may not, hence the young animal is rejected by its mother and attacked. Bonding is an important part of the relationship, as it causes the parent and offspring to remain close until the young animal has learnt to fend for itself. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filial_impr... Chloe · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. In many animals, imprinting occurs soon after birth, and in animals such as ducks and geese they will follow around anyone who they have imprinted on (be it mother duck, a human or a boat!).
Filial Bonds is a quest in The Elder Scrolls V: Dragonborn given by Wulf Wild-Blood to find his brother, Torkild. I met Wulf Wild-Blood, whose brother disappeared many years ago. There are a few locations where random encounters occur and he may be found: 1  On the coastline between Glacial Cave and Bujold's Retreat is a popular place for Torkild to wander. 2  West of Glacial Cave, along the coastline. 3  Just South of Bujold's Retreat on the east side of Solstheim.
Best Answer: Filial imprinting reffers to the process by which a young animal learns who its parents (or mother only) are. In many animals, imprinting occurs soon after birth, and in animals such as ducks and geese they will follow around anyone who they have imprinted on (be it mother duck, a human or a boat!).
If filial imprinting fails to occur, most young animals would not survive in the wild, as it would not remain close to its parents and be protected and reared by them. In many animals, imprinting occurs soon after birth, and in animals such as ducks and geese they will follow around anyone who they have imprinted on (be it mother duck, a human or a boat!).
It was first used to describe situations in which an animal or person learns the characteristics of some stimulus, which is therefore said to be imprinted onto the subject. Filial imprinting is when a young animal learns the characteristics of its parent. It is most obvious in nidifugous birds, who imprint on their parents and then follow them around. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Imprinting is the term used in psychology and ethology to describe any kind of phase-sensitive learning (learning occurring at a particular age or a particular life stage) that is rapid and apparently independent of the consequences of behavior.
Filal Bonds is one of the Dragonborn Sidequests available as part of the Dragonborn DLC. Speak to Wulf Wild-Blood in the Skaal Village to get this quest. He has a workshop in the middle of the village. Wulf is the First Hunter of the Skaal Village and leads all of the hunts. 