Leslie Easterbrook looking very sexy and a very young Johnny Depp. 1  Private Resort. Leslie Easterbrook looking very sexy and a very young Johnny Depp. Movie. Category. License.
View Resume | Official Photos ». Leslie Easterbrook was born on July 29, 1949 in Los Angeles, California, USA as Leslie Eileen Easterbrook. She is an actress, known for The Devil's Rejects (2005), Police Academy (1984) and Halloween (2007). She is married to Dan Wilcox. 
On 29-7-1949 Leslie Easterbrook (nickname:) was born in Los Angeles, California, USA. The daughter of father (?) and mother(?) is as actress in 2015 famous for Police Academy, Laverne & Shirley, Down Angel, Halloween, Devil's Rejects. Leslie Easterbrook’s starsign is Leo and she is now 66 years of age. 
Leslie Easterbrook. Hi guys! We have received so many questions for Leslie, but they are in different posts (between other comments) where it's so easy to miss one or two. Let's do it this way. If you have any specific questions or messages that you would like us to forward to her, please send them in a private message. 
Mini Bio (1). Leslie Easterbrook was born on July 29, 1949 in Los Angeles, California, USA as Leslie Eileen Easterbrook. She is an actress, known for The Devil's Rejects (2005), Police Academy (1984) and Halloween (2007). She is married to Dan Wilcox. She was previously married to Victor Holchak. 
Michael Winslow net worth: $1.5 Million. Michael Winslow net worth: Michael Winslow is an American actor and comedian who has a net worth of $1.5 million dollars. Michael Winslow was born in Spokane, Washington, and was a student at the Lisa Maile School of Acting, Modeling, and Imaging. He then went on to study architecture in college. 
Leslie Easterbrook. Police Academy movies fans know her as Officer Debbie Callahan. Leslie Easterbrook is a great actress with gorgeous body measurements. Her figure has distinctive hourglass body shape with large breasts, slim waist, and round hips. Easterbrook wears 36C bra size and her large bust is natural. Leslie doesn’t have breast implants. 
People who liked Leslie Easterbrook's feet, also liked: The revised comment section is intended for intellectual discussions over symmetry and aesthetics. Vulgar, hateful or sexually explicit comments have no place on this site. In short-stay classy ;). 
Leslie Easterbrook-nude. Follow Leslie Easterbrook-nude to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow Leslie Easterbrook-nude to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following Leslie Easterbrook-nude in your eBay Feed. 
$1.5 Million. Leslie Easterbrook net worth: Leslie Easterbrook is an American actress who has a net worth of $1.5 million. Leslie Easterbrook was born in Los Angeles, California in July 1949. She is best known for starring as Office Debbie Callahan in the Police Academy film series. 