Causes, Symptoms and Treatments Scoliosis is a clinical condition where the normal curvature of the spine is altered and instead a part of the spine is curved to the side. The abnormal curvature of the spine to the left side is called levoscoliosis. It commonly affects the lumbar part of the spine (also called Lumbar Levoscoliosis) though it can also have an effect on the thoracic spine and as a result can have an impact on the heart and lungs i.e. the structures within the thoracic cage.
Conclusion Levoscoliosis is the leftward curvature of the spine that is often seen in the lumbar region. Patients can have a variety of symptoms, though the significant ones are the ones that have a bearing on their quality of life. Treatments can include simple supportive measures or surgery. It commonly affects the lumbar part of the spine (also called Lumbar Levoscoliosis) though it can also have an effect on the thoracic spine and as a result can have an impact on the heart and lungs i.e. the structures within the thoracic cage.
Levoscoliosis is the term that describes a spinal curve to the  left. Thoracolumbar scoliosis is a curvature that includes  vertebrae in the both portions of the spine. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Levoscoliosis is a slight left curvature of the spine. The lumbar region is between the thoracic and the sacral (sacrum) areas of the spine. It include L1 through L5. Generally, this area lies between the 10th rib(s) down to 1-2 below the top of the pelvis
Other types of Levoscoliosis. Levoconvex scoliosis or levoscoliosis lumbar spine is a left curvature of the spinal column in the lower back, L1 to L5. Thoracic levoscoliosis is a curve in the upper back, T1 to T12. The symptoms of levoscoliosis can appear at any time and is primarily observed by back pain and/or changes in posture. Postural changes can include: one shoulder higher than the other, a protruding shoulder blade, uneven hips, etc.
Levoscoliosis is a left curvature of the spine. It can be mild, which does not normally cause any health problems, or more severe, which can cause problems. It can be found in the lumbar (lower back) or thoracic (mid-back) area. Levoscoliosis is a slight left curvature of the spine.     The lumbar region is between the thoracic and the sacral (sacrum) areas of the spine. It include L1 through … L5. Generally, this area lies between the 10th rib(s) down to 1-2 below the top of the pelvis.
The standard definition of scoliosis is the curvature of the spine in one direction or another. Levoscoliosis is the curvature of the spine to the left side of the body. Levoscoliosis has the same signs and symptoms as the classical scoliosis, but due to the location of the heart there are added health concerns due to with the left curvature in the thoracic spine (midback). The symptoms of levoscoliosis can appear at any time and is primarily observed by back pain and/or changes in posture. Postural changes can include: one shoulder higher than the other, a protruding shoulder blade, uneven hips, etc.
1 Lumbar scoliosis is curvature in the lower (lumbar) portion of the spine. 2  Thoracolumbar scoliosis is curvature that includes vertebrae in both the lower thoracic portion and the upper lumbar portion of the spine. Types of idiopathic scoliosis are categorized by both age at which the curve is detected and by the type and location of the curve. When grouped by age, scoliosis usually is categorized into three age groups: 1  Infantile scoliosis: from birth to 3 years old. 2  Juvenile scoliosis: from 3 to 9