Aldol Condensation. The aldol condensation is a reaction in which aldehydes and ketones react to form larger molecules. A new carbon-carbon bond is formed. In this generalized reaction the a-carbon of one aldehyde forms a bond with the carbonyl carbon of the other aldehyde. 
An aldehyde /ˈaeldɨhaɪd/ ˈældɨhaɪd or alkanal is an organic compound containing a formyl. Group the formyl group is a functional, group with the Structure-R, cho consisting of a carbonyl (center a carbon double bonded to) oxygen bonded to hydrogen and An r, group which is any generic alkyl or side. chain The formyl group is a functional group, with the structure R-CHO, consisting of a carbonyl center (a carbon double bonded to oxygen) bonded to hydrogen and an R group, which is any generic alkyl or side chain. The group without R is called the aldehyde group or formyl group. Aldehydes differ from ketones in that the carbonyl is placed at the end of a carbon skeleton rather than between two carbon atoms. Aldehydes are common in organic chemistry. Many fragrances are aldehydes.
In aldehydes, the carbonyl group has a hydrogen atom attached to it together with either. a second hydrogen atom. or, more commonly, a hydrocarbon group which might be an alkyl group or one containing a benzene ring. For the purposes of this section, we shall ignore those containing benzene rings. This page explains what aldehydes and ketones are, and looks at the way their bonding affects their reactivity. It also considers their simple physical properties such as solubility and boiling points. Details of the chemical reactions of aldehydes and ketones are described on separate pages.
aldehyde. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) any organic compound containing the group-CHO. Aldehydes are oxidized to carboxylic acids and take part in many addition reactions. 2. (Chemistry) (modifier) consisting of, containing, or concerned with the group-CHO: aldehyde group or radical.
According to a general definition of Aldehyde that says: An aldehyde is an organic compound containing a terminal carbonyl group. This functional group, called an aldehyde group, consists of a carbon atom bonded to a hydrogen atom with a single covalent bond and an oxygen atom with a double bond. Thus the chemical formula for an aldehyde functional group is-CH=O, and the general formula for an aldehyde is R-CH=O. The aldehyde group is occasionally called the formyl or methanoyl group. Other classes of organic compounds containing carbonyl groups include ketones and carboxylic acids. wikipedia.
Aldehydes () and ketones () are both carbonyl compounds. They are organic compounds in which the carbonyl carbon is connected to C or H atoms on either side. An aldehyde has one or both vacancies of the carbonyl carbon satisfied by a H atom, while a ketone has both its vacancies satisfied by carbon.
Definition of ALDEHYDE. : acetaldehyde; broadly: any of a class of highly reactive organic compounds that are analogous to acetaldehyde and characterized by a carbonyl group attached to a hydrogen atom. — al·de·hy·dic \ˌal-də-ˈhī-dik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT
Aldehyde dehydrogenase is a polymorphic enzyme responsible for the oxidation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids, which leave the liver and are metabolized by the body’s muscle and heart. 
aldehyde. an organic compound containing the aldehyde functional group (−CHO); that is, one with a carbonyl group (C=O) located at one end of the carbon chain. Aldehydes are formed in meat during the rancidification of fat and in the degradation of alcohols in biological materials. Each aldehyde is characterized by a carbonyl group (─CO─) attached directly to a hydrogen (─CHO) in its formula and can be converted into a corresponding acid by oxidation, as in the conversion of acetaldehyde to acetic acid.