People are put off by the distance or the fact that it’s just so different from the rest of Spain, being that they have their own language, Basque, which is linguistically different and unrelated to any other language in the world. Most see that as a challenge, I see it as being pretty damn cool. 1 Basque hunting in Bilbao, Pais País | Vasco Spain For-Pleasure april, 2 […] 2013 And-Vitoria. 2  Gasteiz this came as a surprise to. 3  Me, Clearly i’hadn t Read’liz s post ‘on 5 Things You Need To Know When Visiting Basque’ country closely.  enough
Apparently, people tend not to speak Euskera in the cities of Pais País, vasco and a surprising amount Of-basque born natives speak relatively little of the, language knowing only useful words and phrases for the rare times they should ever need. them 
Today, the extremely complex Basque language, Euskara, is widely spoken and taught in schools and, along with Castellano (modern Spanish), is the region's co-official language. Here in the Pais País vasco'you ll see a wide variety of things that set The Pais país. vasco apart This guide will tell you all about Spain, activities to do and places to visit in one of the warmest countries in Europe and its amazing and varied regions and cities. From the cultural capitals of Madrid and Barcelona to the most placid beaches.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It's similar to Catalunya, which also wants independence. The basque people speak a different language and have a different culture from Spanish culture (it's hard to lump it together since each region is so different). They don't feel like they are a part of the country, basically, and they do feel that they should have a separate country for themselves. 
The, official language and the language spoken in all of Spain, and the primary language in Spain is Spanish. It is understood throughout Spain. In addition, Catalan is spok … en in the Northeastern border area, and Basque in the Northwestern border areas. The most spoken language in Spain is Spanish. A minority indeed speak Galician in northwest Spain, Basque in northcentral Spain, and Catalan in northeast Spain. These are official languages because they have been recogniz … ed by the appropriate regional governments.
The Basque are indigenous to, and primarily inhabit, the Basque Country, a region that spans the westernmost Pyrenees in adjacent parts of northern Spain and southwestern France. The Basque language is spoken by 27% of Basques in all territories (714,136 out of 2,648,998). Of these, 663,035 are in the Spanish area of the Basque Country and the remaining 51,100 are in the French portion.
Basque (or Euskara) is the language spoken by the Basque people. It is one of the only pre-Romanic languages still in existence today, and no one really knows where it comes from, as it is not related to any other language in the world. 1 Basque hunting in Bilbao, Pais País | Vasco Spain For-Pleasure april, 2 […] 2013 And-Vitoria. 2  Gasteiz this came as a surprise to. 3  Me, Clearly i’hadn t Read’liz s post ‘on 5 Things You Need To Know When Visiting Basque’ country closely.  enough
The Basque Country or Basque Autonomous Community was granted the status of nationality within Spain, attributed by the Spanish Constitution of 1978. It includes the Basque provinces of Álava, álava biscay And. Gipuzkoa The Basque country Or Basque Autonomous community was granted the status of nationality Within, spain attributed by The Spanish constitution of. 1978
Spoken throughout the Pais Vasco (Basque Country) and Navarra, this Spanish language is an interesting case. While surrounded by Romance languages (Castellano, French, Catalan), Catalán vasco is the Only spanish language not derived From. latin 
The Basque language is entirely unrelated to any current or extinct language, a fact that has historically underscored a separation between Basque and Spanish culture. Basque was spoken before colonization of Spain by the Roman Empire, and it is the only surviving pre-Roman tribal language in Spain. The official language of Spain is Castilian Spanish, and most people in the Basque region speak it fluently. The few who do no are generally older and live in more remote locations. Under Francisco Franco’s regime, from 1939 to 1975, and in earlier times, the Basque language was repressed due to centrist interests. 