Hydrocarbons. Aliphatic hydrocarbon solvents, petroleum hydrocarbon solvents. The aliphatic hydrocarbons may be of straight chain, branched or cyclic molecular structure. Aliphatic hydrocarbons such as alkanes, isoparaffins and alkenes are the major components of gasoline. Many solvents can contain a blend of different aliphatic types or aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons depending on the end use. Common aliphatic solvents are e.g. mineral spirits, petroleum naptha, petroleum distillate, cyclohexane, octane, pentane or isopentane, nonane.
HYDROCARBON SOLVENT SOLUTIONS by Nancy Eilerts, Ph.D. Continued on back page Not all hydrocarbons are created equal. Thehydrocarbon solvents that are most familiar to drycleaners arethose that had a low flash point and were strongly discouragedfrom use in the drycleaning industry beginning in the late1940s. Thename hydrocarbon comes from combining the wordshydrogen and carbon. The name hydrocarbon is often usedwith other words that indicate that other elements besideshydrogen and carbon are present. Halogenated hydrocarbons,for example, refer to a hydrocarbon to which is attached ahalogen atom.
In organic chemistry, a hydrocarbon is an organic compound consisting entirely of hydrogen and carbon. Hydrocarbons from which one hydrogen atom has been removed are functional groups, called hydrocarbyls. 1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures).
Hexane, Polymerization grade is a fast evaporating hydrocarbon solvent that consists essentially of hexane isomers. A concentration of approximately 400% makes n-hexane the major component in this mixture. Hexane is a clear, colourless liquid with a faint odour. It is a stable paraffinic hydrocarbon which is highly volatile and distils over a very narrow range. It is suitable for food and related industries such as in the production of edible oils.
Hydrocarbons can be gases (e.g. methane and propane), liquids (e.g. hexane and benzene), waxes or low melting solids (e.g. paraffin wax and naphthalene) or polymers (e.g. polyethylene, polypropylene and polystyrene). 1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures).
Definition. Benzene, kerosene, xylene, or other petroleum derivative used as an industrial solvent for cleaning or dissolving water-insoluble substances such as greases and oils. Due to their high toxicity and persistence in nature, their use in industrial processes is restricted
It is a very fast evaporating hydrocarbon solvent and low in impurities such as sulphur, olefins, benzene and total aromatics. Typically this product finds use in applications where high volatility is required. Blowing agent, aerosol propellant and electronic cleaning are examples of such applications. Hexane is a clear, colourless liquid with a faint odour. It is a stable paraffinic hydrocarbon which is highly volatile and distils over a very narrow range. It is suitable for food and related industries such as in the production of edible oils.