Crystals for Scorpio. Crystals for Scorpio. The Scorpion is the most sexual sign of the zodiac, they are charismatic, powerful, magnetic and intense. They tend to be secretive, manipulative and regenerative. Their personalities are penetrating and very vindictive with a do or die attitude. 
Gemstone Birthstones for Scorpio. These are the two main gemstones crystals for Scorpio, the images are examples of the stones, click on the images of the crystals, to see the complete range of items of that crystal type. 
Another planetary stone for Scorpio is ruby. This Scorpio birthstone is the red variety of corundum, whose others colors are called sapphire. The Scorpio stone is believed to enhance mental power, as well as boost courage. Garnet is a gemstone associated with Pluto, the ruling planet of Scorpio, and is hence the planetary stone for Scorpio. This Scorpio birthstone occurs mostly in red. The Scorpio gemstone is believed to enhance healing and relieve depression. A magnificent ruby specimen.
Peridot Gemstone Bracelet. Examine the Scorpio birthstone list, and the meanings of each of the stones that are known to assist the Scorpio person. Assess the list and read about the birthstones that have been attributed to the astrological sign of Scorpio. If you use this Scorpio Birthstone in meditation it is known to align with the energy of Christ consciousness, and this creates an understanding of the concept of Divine will, and how it applies in your life. Hiddenite. Hiddenite crystal has a lovely energy and is the sister stone to Pink Kunzite.
Peridot Ring. Peridot is a lime green gemstone, that is wonderful made into Scorpio birthstone jewelry. These stones have a powerhouse vibration, and embody the frequency of increase. This is a positive energy to help you if you desire to make specific changes in your life. If you use this Scorpio Birthstone in meditation it is known to align with the energy of Christ consciousness, and this creates an understanding of the concept of Divine will, and how it applies in your life. Hiddenite. Hiddenite crystal has a lovely energy and is the sister stone to Pink Kunzite.
Wearing your Scorpio birthstone, or having these crystals in your environment, will prove to bring you many blessings. For your astrology sign, the most powerful crystals for Scorpio are Rhodochrosite (your power stone), Citrine, Sodalite, Amethyst and Quartz Crystal. The Scorpio crystals bring light into anything that is blocking your spiritual path, assisting you to access insights. The Scorpion • October 23 to November 21 The crystals for Scorpio are a major power source. Having them in your environment will bring you many blessings! Discover your astrology crystals!
Which Scorpio Birthstone To Choose. Start by reviewing the list of stones and learning more of their attributes. This may help you to work out which Scorpio Birthstone to use. Have a look through the crystals that you already own, as you might have one of these in your current jewelry. After you have read both the list and the meanings of each of the stones on it, you may want to find out more information on some special crystals. If you use this Scorpio Birthstone in meditation it is known to align with the energy of Christ consciousness, and this creates an understanding of the concept of Divine will, and how it applies in your life. Hiddenite. Hiddenite crystal has a lovely energy and is the sister stone to Pink Kunzite.
The following is by no means all of the crystals and gemstones for a specific zodiac sign or birthstone. These are simply the more commonly recommended crystals for your specific sign or month. Compare your astrological birthstones with the ones for your birth month. The emotional crystals are ones that can help balance common emotional problems for that specific zodiac sign.