The access point basically is a device that would give out or transmit wireless signal to your network. The wireless card in turn will act as a receiver or the wireless signal. The Wireless Access Point plainly doesn't have the ability to give out an IP address to your computer or to wireless devices. So it needs a router to connect it with. with. In some cases we have modem that is actually also a router, we have router that is also an access point. ‎10-26-2006 06:20 AM. An access point is used to allow wireless clients to access a regular wired network. You plug the access point into a switch or network jack, wireless devices connect to it and it bridges them to the wired LAN.
An access point in turn may connect to another access point, or to a wired Ethernet router. Wireless access points are commonly used in large office buildings to create one wireless local area network (WLAN) that spans a large area. Each access point typically supports up to 255 client computers. This is a popular wireless router product based on the 802.11g Wi-Fi network standard. Wireless routers are small box-like devices generally less than 12 inches (0.3 m) in length, with LED lights on the front and with connection ports on the sides or back.
In a wireless local area network (WLAN), an access point is a station that transmits and receives data (sometimes referred to as a transceiver). 
(June 2008). In computer networking, a wireless access point (AP) is a device that allows wireless devices to connect to a wired network using Wi-Fi, or related standards. The AP usually connects to a router (via a wired network) as a standalone device, but it can also be an integral component of the router itself. An ad hoc network uses a connection between two or more devices without using a wireless access point: the devices communicate directly when in range. An ad hoc network is used in situations such as a quick data exchange or a multiplayer LAN game because setup is easy and does not require an access point.
1. as an access point-transmits wireless signal. This mode allows wireless client to connect to the access point and routes traffic between the wireless and wired interface. Use this mode to create a standard wireless Infrastructure network. 2. access point client-recieves signal. ‎10-26-2006 06:20 AM. An access point is used to allow wireless clients to access a regular wired network. You plug the access point into a switch or network jack, wireless devices connect to it and it bridges them to the wired LAN.
Access Point. An access point is a device, such as a wireless router, that allows wireless devices to connect to a network. Most access points have built-in routers, while others must be connected to a router in order to provide network access. Some cities provide public access points in the form of wireless transmitters that are connected to streetlights, signs, and other public objects. While access points typically provide wireless access to the Internet, some are intended only to provide access to a closed network.
Definition: Wireless access points (APs or WAPs) are special-purpose communication devices on wireless local area networks (WLANs). Access points act as a central transmitter and receiver of wireless radio signals. (Home routers actually integrate an access point into the rest of the device.) AP hardware consists of radio transceivers, antennas and device firmware. Access points enable so-called Wi-Fi infrastructure mode networking.