Definition. A currency that is issued based on an underlying physical commodity that is widely acknowledged as having intrinsic value. Gold and silver were the most common commodities used to back a currency, although other goods such as tobacco have been used historically
Table 1 Identifying the commodity-currency countries Two-fifths of commodity-exporting countries have commodity currencies: there is a long-run relationship between their real effective exchange rate and their real commodity export prices. We found that the elasticity typically ranged between 0.2 and 0.4, with a median of 0.38. Thus, a 10 percent drop in the real price of the commodity exports of countries with commodity currencies is typically associated with a 3.8 percent depreciation of their real exchange rate.
A currency that belongs to a country whose economy is strongly correlated with the price fluctuations of a certain commodity. DEFINITION of 'Commodity Block Currency'. A currency that belongs to a country whose economy is strongly correlated with the price fluctuations of a certain commodity. Next Up.
Commodity money is money whose value comes from a commodity of which it is made. Commodity money consists of objects that have value in themselves as well as value in their use as money. Examples of commodities that have been used as mediums of exchange include gold, silver, copper, salt, peppercorns, tea, large stones (such as Rai stones), decorated belts, shells, alcohol, cigarettes, cannabis, candy, cocoa beans, cowries and barley.
All three of these countries have currencies named dollar, therefore these commodity currencies are often referred to as 'comdolls.' While other countries export commodities as well, the exports of these three countries make up a larger proportion of their annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Both the value of the commodity and the country's trade balance, with respect to the commodity, are significant factors in the valuation of commodity currencies. The most commonly traded commodity currencies are those of Canada, New Zealand and Australia.
A commodity currency is a name given to currencies of countries which depend heavily on the export of certain raw materials for income. These countries are typically developing countries, e.g. countries like Burundi, Tanzania, Papua New Guinea; but also include developed countries like Canada and Australia. In the foreign exchange market, commodity currencies generally refer to the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, New Zealand dollar, Norwegian krone, South African rand, Brazilian real, Russian ruble and the Chilean peso.
A currency with an exchange rate highly correlated to the price of a commodity that is important to the economy of the currency issuer. For example, the Canadian dollar tends to be strong when oil and soybean prices are high because these are two major commodities produced in Canada. is also affected by its country's trade balances, with respect to the country's main commodity export. Heffx Takes a Look at AUD, NZD, CAD by PR Newswire. The new currency pairs include exotic pairs, crosses with the Swiss Franc and crosses with the Australian Dollar, a major. .