Definition of OCCIDENT. : west 2a. See Occident defined for English-language learners. See Occident defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin occident-, occidens, from present participle of occidere to fall, set (of the sun). First Known Use: 14th century.
In the contemporary cultural meaning, the phrase Western world includes Europe, as well as many countries of European colonial origin with substantial European ancestral populations in the Americas, Asia and Oceania. Palestinian-American literary critic Edward Said uses the term occident in his discussion of orientalism. According to his binary, the West, or Occident, created a romanticized vision of the East, or Orient to justify colonial and imperialist intentions. This Occident-Orient binary focuses on the Western vision of the East instead of any truths about the East
The Western world, also known as The West and the Occident (from Latin: occidens sunset, West; as contrasted with the Orient), is a term referring to different nations depending on the context. There are many accepted definitions about what they all have in common. Palestinian-American literary critic Edward Said uses the term occident in his discussion of orientalism. According to his binary, the West, or Occident, created a romanticized vision of the East, or Orient to justify colonial and imperialist intentions. This Occident-Orient binary focuses on the Western vision of the East instead of any truths about the East
The Occidental Grand All Inclusive Resorts are situated on the finest beaches of Aruba, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and Mexico. Surrounded by beautiful natural landscapes you will be able to rest and relax under the tropical sun. Treat yourself to an adults-only getaway at the all-inclusive Occidental Grand Papagayo Resort, located in Guanacaste, Costa Rica.
Occidental Grand Nuevo Vallarta is located on one of the best beaches in the region of Riviera Nayarit, and close to the city's premier shops and restaurants. Experience the Royal Club Grand Nuevo Vallarta for exclusive access to our best amenities. Treat yourself to an adults-only getaway at the all-inclusive Occidental Grand Papagayo Resort, located in Guanacaste, Costa Rica.
The opposite term  Occident  derives from the Latin word occidens, meaning west (lit. setting occido fall/set). This term meant the west (where the sun sets) but has fallen into disuse in English, in favor of Western world. In German, Orient is usually used synonymously with area between the Near East and India, including Israel, the Arab World, and Greater Persia. The term Asiaten (English: Asians) means the people of East Asia and Southeast Asia.
Tucked within an ecological and historical preserve, the Cancun Riviera Maya all-inclusive resort Occidental Grand Xcaret captivates guests with spectacular grounds, a pristine coastline and unparalleled service and amenities. The Occidental Grand Xcaret also features 11 international restaurants and 10 bars to fit every mood and occasion, from a romantic dinner to a lively family meal.