1 Tinea capitis (ringworm of the scalp) : It typically takes about two weeks for signs of a scalp infection to appear. 2  Tinea unquiet (ringworm of the fingernails and toenails) : It can take a month or more for ringworm symptoms to show up. In general, though, a ringworm infection will take anywhere from 2 to 21 days to manifest and it can persist for years if you don’t take action to eradicate the disease. It is also highly contagious. A person can pass the infection on to others for as long as the lesions are active on the body.
Ringworm is spread by direct and indirect contact with humans, animals, and soil. Humans get infections through skin and scalp lesions of infected persons, contaminated clothing, bath mats, towels, floors and showers. Animals get infections through cats, dogs, mice, and guinea pigs. Cattle and horses may be infected. 
The incubation period between exposure to ringworm fungus and the development of ringworm lesions usually ranges from seven to fourteen days; some cases may take up to 21 days before signs of infection develop. 
Ringworm Incubation Period in Humans. There are many myths surrounding ringworm and one of them is that signs of a ringworm infection will appear right away. This is patently untrue. Like the majority of skin diseases, it takes time for a ringworm infection to manifest itself. The incubation time for ringworm in humans depends a lot on where the infection appears. 1  Tinea corporis (ringworm of the body) : It can take two days or more for the rash to appear on the skin. In general, though, a ringworm infection will take anywhere from 2 to 21 days to manifest and it can persist for years if you don’t take action to eradicate the disease. It is also highly contagious. A person can pass the infection on to others for as long as the lesions are active on the body.
The incubation period between exposure to ringworm fungus and the development of ringworm lesions usually ranges from seven to fourteen days; some cases may take up to 21 days before signs of infection develop. Ringworm  is the common name given to a fungal infection of the superficial layers of the skin, hair and nails. Ringworm infections can occur in humans and in all domesticated species of animals.
Ringworm is a common superficial fungal skin disease of all animals. The incubation period is 1 – 4 weeks. It is usually present as raised, grey/white circular lesions that range in size from 1 – 5cm, with a number. ringworm, tinea, dermatophytosis or dermatomycosis. o. Different dermatophytes are more common in certain species, such as. The incubation period for infection is 1-2 weeks. In children 4-11 years old, the disease most commonly occurs on the scalp. The incubation period for ringworm of the nails is unclear
There are several fungal species affecting animals, which can cause the disease. These may also affect humans. Incubation Period The incubation period is 10-12 days. This means that following exposure to the fungus, about 10-12 days will pass before any lesions occur. Diagnosis Diagnosis is made in one of 3 ways: 1. Identification of the typical ringworm lesions on the skin 2
Ringworm is a skin disease caused by a fungus (plural: fungi). Because the lesions are often circular, ringworm was once thought to be caused by a worm curling up in the tissue. The incubation period is 10-12 days. The incubation period is 10-12 days. This means that following exposure to the fungus, about 10-12 days will pass before any lesions occur. Ringworm is a skin disease caused by a fungus (plural: fungi). Because the lesions are often circular, ringworm was The incubation period is 10-12 days. Different dermatophytes are more common in certain species, such as. The incubation period for infection is 1-2 weeks. In children 4-11 years old, the disease most commonly occurs on the scalp. The incubation period for ringworm of the nails is unclear