At a granular level, rocks are composed of grains of minerals, which, in turn, are homogeneous solids formed from a chemical compound that is arranged in an orderly manner. The aggregate minerals forming the rock are held together by chemical bonds. The types and abundance of minerals in a rock are determined by the manner in which the rock was formed. Many rocks contain silica (SiO 2); a compound of silicon and oxygen that forms 74.3% of the Earth's crust.
Rocks: Rocks are a composed of one or more minerals. A rock can be made up of only one mineral or, as shown in the figure, a rock can be made up of a number of different minerals. So, rocks are composed of one or more minerals and minerals are composed of one or more elements. Minerals: Elements often are stacked together with other elements to form minerals. Minerals are simply a collection of one or more elements that are stacked neatly together in a form called a crystal structure.
Rocks are made of grains that fit together. Each grain in the rock is made from a mineral, which is a chemical compound. The grains in a rock can be different colours, shapes and sizes. Granite has interlocking grains. Sandstone has rounded grains. Some types of rock have interlocking grains that fit tightly together. 
Rocks are naturally formed, consolidated material composed of grains of one or more minerals. Geologists group rocks into three categories depending on their origin: igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. A mineral is defined as a naturally occurring, crystalline solid of definite chemical composition and a characteristic crystal structure. Igneous rocks are formed from solidification of molten material
Igneous rocks are formed from the solidification of molten rock material. There are two basic types. Intrusive igneous rocks crystallize below Earth's surface and the slow cooling that occurs there allows large crystals to form. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are diorite, gabbro, granite, pegmatite, and peridotite. These rocks include andesite, basalt, obsidian, pumice, rhyolite, scoria, and tuff. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common igneous rock types are shown on this page. Diorite is a coarse-grained, intrusive igneous rock that contains a mixture of feldspar, pyroxene, hornblende and sometimes quartz.
Sedimentary rocks are formed at the earth's surface by the accumulation and cementation of fragments of earlier rocks, minerals, and organisms or as chemical precipitates and organic growths in water (sedimentation). The types and abundance of minerals in a rock are determined by the manner in which the rock was formed. Many rocks contain silica (SiO 2); a compound of silicon and oxygen that forms 74.3% of the Earth's crust.
In geology, rock or stone is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids. For example, the common rock granite is a combination of the quartz, feldspar and biotite minerals. The Earth's outer solid layer, the lithosphere, is made of rock. The types and abundance of minerals in a rock are determined by the manner in which the rock was formed. Many rocks contain silica (SiO 2); a compound of silicon and oxygen that forms 74.3% of the Earth's crust.
Rocks are a composed of one or more minerals. A rock can be made up of only one mineral or, as shown in the figure, a rock can be made up of a number of different minerals. Minerals: Elements often are stacked together with other elements to form minerals. Minerals are simply a collection of one or more elements that are stacked neatly together in a form called a crystal structure.