As a side note — the largest snake species to ever exist on the Earth (as far as we know currently), was the titanoboa, which lived somewhere around 58-60 million years ago. Titanoboa cerrejonensis is estimated to have regularly reached sizes of 40-50 feet in length, and 2000-2500 lbs. 
Growing up to 30 feet long, the reticulated python (Python reticulatus) of southeastern Asia and the East Indies is the longest snake in the world. These giants have an average weight of 250 pounds, but the largest known specimen in existence weighs in at a whopping 350 pounds. While there are several contenders for the title of world's largest snake, here are three of the biggest and longest snakes known to man: Weighing in at 550 pounds, the aptly named giant anaconda (Eunectes murinus) is the largest snake in the world considering its length-to-weight ratio.
Boas, anacondas and pythons… all extremely dangerous and more importantly, very, very BIG! Apart from this 55 feet long giant snake found in Malaysia, we’ll talk about some of the largest snakes in the world, so have a look. They snakes managed to crawl away, but just a few feet upfront, the workers found the injured snake dead, and the other gone. The beast was a 55 feet long boa (16.7 meters), it weighed 300 kilograms and its age was estimated to 140 years.
The world's longest snake, the reticulated python, is found in southeast Asia. The world's heaviest snake, the green anaconda, is found in the Amazon rainforest of South Ameri … ca. At one point some news agencies erroneously reported that the world's largest snake was found in Indonesia. It was claimed to measure 48 feet 8 inches and weigh in at 983 pounds. This story was later proven false. The Largest snake ever recorded is a 49-foot, 900 pound reticulated  python that is currently in captivity in Java, Indonesia.   This, along with most records of outsized … snakes, is a complete  hoax. Although this specimen is large, it is closer to 24 feet.
When. The longest snake-ever (captivity) is Medusa, a reticulated python (python reticulatus), and is owned by Full Moon Productions Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri, USA. When measured on 12 October 2011, she was found to be 7.67 m (25 ft 2 in) long. Medusa also holds the current 'Longest Snake-Living (captivity)' title. It’s the longest snake ever in captivity. Medusa, a reticulated python, clocked in at 7.67 meters (25 feet, 2 inches) long in its official world record measurement, on October 12, 2011.
The reticulated python (Python reticulatus) is a species of python found in Southeast Asia. They are the world's longest snakes and longest reptiles, but are not the most heavily built. Like all pythons, they are nonvenomous constrictors and normally not considered dangerous to humans. 
This is a list of the largest snakes in the world. Largest Snake ever discovered was probably the largest non-marine creature living on earth. #1 Titanoboa. This monster snake lived 60-58 million years ago. It is the largest snake ever discovered, reaching a length of 12-15 m (40-50 ft), and weighing about 1135 kg (2500 pounds). The fossils of 28 of the titanoboa were found in coal mines in Colombia in 2009. 
The largest anaconda ever measured was almost 28 feet long with a girth of 44 inches. She wasn't weighed at the time she was caught, but scientists estimate that she must have weighed over 500 lbs. The other snake that competes with the anaconda is the Asiatic Reticulated Python (Python reticulatus). The python holds the world's record for length of a snake, with the longest ever measured at 33 feet. Even though the longest python is longer than the record-holding anaconda, the girth of the anaconda is far bigger. Anacondas in the jungles of South America can grow as big around as a grown man! 