1 Common cold and infection in the ear can also cause numb feeling in the ear. 2  Diabetes: Uncontrolled diabetes or poorly controlled diabetes can cause peripheral neuropathy giving rise to tingling and numbness in extremities and on the face including the ears. Ear numbness can occur all over the ear or in certain part of the ear. In the beginning there may be a feeling of pricking of needles and pins or a tingling sensation all over the ear or in certain area of the ear. This condition is called paresthesia.
1 Ear injury: It is the most common condition for ear numbness. 2  It can be a major injury to the ear such as a cut with a sharp object or a direct blow to the ear or a simple ear piercing. 3  The sensory nerve gets damaged which may produce a tingling and burning sensation in the beginning. Ear numbness can occur all over the ear or in certain part of the ear. In the beginning there may be a feeling of pricking of needles and pins or a tingling sensation all over the ear or in certain area of the ear. This condition is called paresthesia.
What you would read in the following is about the possible factors which may cause numbness on right side of the face. Causes of Face Numbness. Cause # 1. One common cause for the right or the left side of the face to go numb could be a condition known as Bell's palsy. This tends to affect only one side of the face, and in rare cases, both the sides. The facial muscles are controlled by a set of nerves. 
Loss of hearing...numbness. dannnyy posted: I have been having problems with one ear for a few weeks now, first it was a numb sensation, and a rushing sound that went along with my heartbeat. That seemed to go away for awhile but now there is a new problem with the same ear. 
1 Ear numbness can be one of the symptoms of stroke. 2  Common cold and infection in the ear can also cause numb feeling in the ear. 3  Diabetes: Uncontrolled diabetes or poorly controlled diabetes can cause peripheral neuropathy giving rise to tingling and numbness in extremities and on the face including the ears. Ear numbness can occur all over the ear or in certain part of the ear. In the beginning there may be a feeling of pricking of needles and pins or a tingling sensation all over the ear or in certain area of the ear. This condition is called paresthesia.
I too have DDD and have been experiencing numbness on the left side of my face. My sister had the same symptoms and was diagnosed with MS several years ago. I have not seen a doctor yet but in the process of trying to find a neurologist. 
Next. Hi, i went to bed last night and the inside of my ear was itchy. when i woke up this morning my ear felt blocked and i couldnt hear proplerly, a few hours later, my ear still feels blocked and cant hear proplerly but now my face is numb too!! its only on one side of my face (same side as the blocked ear). ive also... show more Hi, i went to bed last night and the inside of my ear was itchy. when i woke up this morning my ear felt blocked and i couldnt hear proplerly, a few hours later, my ear still feels blocked and cant hear proplerly but now my face is numb too!! its only on one side of my face (same side as the blocked ear).
Neuropathy or nerve damage can be due to a number of specific diseases and disorders. In many cases, neuropathy has no known cause. In rare cases, if the numb face is accompanied by numbness or weakness of the arms or legs on one side of the body, it can be a sign of stroke. Numbness of the face can also result from injury or, rarely, tumors of the brain or nerve
show more I woke up this morning and it felt like my right ear was plugged. When I was doing my makeup I realized that my whole right side of my face was numb and part of neck. I tried looking at other answers on here but they seem to have all had Bells Palsy but I can still talk and control my face fine. 