Since vitamins and minerals act synergistically with one another, it is essential that, in the absence of a specific, documentented vitamin or mineral deficiency (as tested by your veterinarian), we provide a good multivitamin supplement, not just a D3 supplement. No one has done any studies on iguanas to determine how much of any vitamin or mineral they need on a daily basis. There are no convenient RDAs or MDVs as there are for humans. I take the lazy way and mix the vitamins in with the food when I prepare large batches of it.
Please Rate and Review for VIONATE. VIONATE is providing ANIMALS' DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS CONTAINING VITAMINS AND MINERALS. - If you are new to LegalForce/Trademarkia, please just enter your contact email and create a password to be associated with your review. 
Delivery. Vionate is a multi-vitamin food supplement for all pets. Regularly used by zoos, vets and owners of exotic pets, its powdered maize formulation is readily accepted by the mejority of pets. Vionate will improve general health and appearance, and help assure a long, active, healthy life. Directions for use (Daily dosage). The item you are adding to your basket requires a prescription before we can send the item to you but don't worry you can do this in 3 easy steps: 1  Place your order online or by phone. 2  Obtain a Prescription from your vet. 3  Write the order number on the top of the prescription and post it to us.
Feed 1/4 teaspoon of this mix per two gliders each night. We supplement only one course in the nightly meal, either by a quick shake from a cheese shaker or you can use a 1/4 teaspoon measure. This supplement can also be used to gut load or dust insects prior to feeding. One container of Rep-Cal will last for 1/2 year with two sugar gliders depending on your feeding plan.
While vitamins A, D, E and phosphorous are necessary to the body for use in calcium metabolism, they are already included in the multivitamin supplement (which contains many other vitamins and minerals the fortified calcium supplements do not have) and from the food. No one has done any studies on iguanas to determine how much of any vitamin or mineral they need on a daily basis. There are no convenient RDAs or MDVs as there are for humans. I take the lazy way and mix the vitamins in with the food when I prepare large batches of it.
A dietary supplement is a product intended for ingestion that contains a dietary ingredient intended to add further nutritional value to (supplement) the diet. A dietary ingredient may be one, or any combination, of the following substances: 1  a vitamin. 2  a mineral. 3  an herb or other botanical. 4  an amino acid. 5  a dietary substance for use by people to supplement the diet by increasing the total dietary intake.
Oversupplementation of vitamins can be harmful. Vitamins A and D can cause serious problems, including liver, skin, and eye problems, and metabolic bone disease. There are two types of supplements you need for your iguana: a multivitamin supplement and a calcium supplement. No one has done any studies on iguanas to determine how much of any vitamin or mineral they need on a daily basis. There are no convenient RDAs or MDVs as there are for humans. I take the lazy way and mix the vitamins in with the food when I prepare large batches of it.
• 30 Large Eggs • 2 Cups of Vionate Vitamins • 15 100mg Zinc Tablets (pulverized) • 1/4 Cup Wheat Germ Oil • 1/4 Cup Vetafarms Breeding Tonic • 2+ Cups Commercial Dry Egg Food. Don't attempt to fix a mushy mixture by adding more and more dry egg food. This just makes more dough and decreases the egg ratio. Add the dry ingredients, Vionate and pulverized zinc tablets. The zinc tablets (available at most health food stores) are run through an electric coffee grinder. This turns the zinc into a fine powder. Zinc is one trace mineral that is missing from Vionate so it is added here.