Inflammation. Diseases that cause nerve inflammation can also damage the myelin sheath. Multiple sclerosis, an autoimmune disorder in which the body’s immune system attacks its own nerves, is the most common form of demyelinating disease. Certain types of encephalitis, or brain inflammation, can also damage myelin. This disease causes symptoms of nerve damage such as impaired motor function, speech, brain function and vision. Other viruses such as human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, the measles virus, and herpes zoster, the virus associated with chickenpox, can also damage myelin.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a potentially disabling disease of the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system). In MS, the immune system attacks the protective sheath (myelin) that covers nerve fibers and causes communication problems between your brain and the rest of your body. Multiple sclerosis. In multiple sclerosis, the protective coating on nerve fibers (myelin) is damaged and may eventually be destroyed. Depending on where the nerve damage occurs, MS can affect vision, sensation, coordination, movement, and bladder and bowel control.
Neuroleptics can also cause demyelination. Demyelinating diseases are traditionally classified in two kinds: demyelinating myelinoclastic diseases and demyelinating leukodystrophic diseases. In the first group a normal and healthy myelin is destroyed by a toxic, chemical or autoimmune substance. In the second group, myelin is abnormal and degenerates. 
Multiple Sclerosis (MS). A disorder of the central nervous system marked by weakness, numbness, a loss of muscle coordination, and problems with vision, speech, and bladder control. Multiple sclerosis is thought to be an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system destroys myelin. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease of the nervous system which affects young and middle‐aged adults. Spasticity, a common problem in people with MS, is a disorder of voluntary movement caused by damage to the central nervous system.
On Serendip. Myelin is the protective sheath around axons in the nervous system, and is often referred to as 'white matter.' It acts as an insulator to the electrical signal that is conducted down the axon as a neuron fires, and can well be compared to the insulation around an electrical wire. Henrike Blumenfeld. Myelin is the protective sheath around axons in the nervous system, and is often referred to as 'white matter.' It acts as an insulator to the electrical signal that is conducted down the axon as a neuron fires, and can well be compared to the insulation around an electrical wire.
In multiple sclerosis (MS), the body's immune system T cells attack the myelin sheath that protects the nerve fibers. The T cells either partially or completely strip the myelin off the fibers, leaving the nerves unprotected and uninsulated. T cells from the body's own immune system attack and destroy the myelin sheath Click to view larger image. In multiple sclerosis, T cells from the body's own immune system attack and destroy the myelin sheath, leaving the nerve cell fibers unprotected.
The myelin sheath allows signals to be transmitted rapidly from the nervous system to the rest of the body. When myelin is destroyed -- called demyelination -- nerve signals are slowed or stopped. In the central nervous system -- the brain and spinal cord -- myelin cannot repair itself after it is damaged. However, in the peripheral nervous system -- the nerves that travel to the arms and legs -- myelin can often regrow. A number of diseases affect the myelin sheath in the central and peripheral nervous system.