Windows 8 or 10 have two factory reset options, named Refresh and Reset. Both reset your computer to a fresh, factory default sate. Refresh preserves your files and installed Modern programs, while Reset removes everything on your system. When you Refresh your PC: 1  Windows will save your personal files, personalization settings, and Modern apps installed from the Windows Store. For Windows 10, go to Settings, Update and Security, and then Recovery. If your computer is not booting properly, you can refresh or reset it from the boot options menu. We’ve covered several ways to access this menu. Once you’ve accessed it, use the Refresh your PC or Reset your PC option.
Figure: Refreshing your computer. When the refresh is complete and the lock screen appears, log in to Windows. note: At the end of the refresh process, an HTML file called Removed Apps.html is placed on the desktop with a list of the desktop apps that were removed so you know what to reinstall. Refreshing your computer from the Start screen (Windows 8). Use the Refresh your PC feature in Windows 8 to return your computer to a known good state without affecting your files.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: 1) In a computer display, to refresh is to redraw the image information from memory. Computer or television displays have to be refreshed because they don't have the capacity to hold a stable image. At adequate refresh rate levels, a display appears stable, but if a refresh rate is too low a display will flicker and can cause eye strain and headaches. 2) With a Web browser, to refresh (or reload) is to download browser content (such as a Web page or other file) that is already displayed.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Refreshing the Screen A refresh is a redraw of the computer screen. Using the video card inside, the computer sends information to the monitor to display on the screen. Sometimes the information sent to the screen is not updated and is displayed incorrectly. Sometimes a part of the transmission fails and the information sent to the screen is incomplete. Using the Refresh Button forces your computer to re-download the information and redisplay it
Memory refresh is the process of periodically reading information from an area of computer memory and immediately rewriting the read information to the same area without modification, for the purpose of preserving the information. 
The refresh rate (most commonly the vertical refresh rate, vertical scan rate for cathode ray tubes) is the number of times in a second that a display hardware updates its buffer. On cathode ray tube (CRT) displays, increasing the refresh rate decreases flickering, thereby reducing eye strain. However, if a refresh rate is specified that is beyond what is recommended for the display, damage to the display can occur.
Refresh. 1. In general refresh is another way of saying reload or updating what is being displayed. 2. Term commonly associated with computer CRT monitors, refresh refers to the renewal of the screen contents. As the refresh rate is increased, the image becomes clearer. 
How to Refresh or Reset. If your computer is still working properly, you can refresh or reset it from the PC Settings application within Windows. For Windows 10, go to Settings, Update and Security, and then Recovery. If your computer is not booting properly, you can refresh or reset it from the boot options menu. We’ve covered several ways to access this menu. Once you’ve accessed it, use the Refresh your PC or Reset your PC option.