Q: What is an ECCN. A: ECCNs are five character alpha-numeric designations used on the Commerce Control List (CCL) to identify dual-use items for export control purposes. Export of commercial products from the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Commerce. Many exports are not EAR99/an ECCN required. A significant amount of commercial products are not listed on the CCL, do not have an ECCN, and are designated as EAR99 generally not requiring a license to be exported or re-exported.
ECCN classification is determined by referring to a table that is issued by the Bureau of Industry and Security. Since the lists are based on an international standard, the European Union regulates items using the numbering system that is very similar, and is defined in Council Regulation (EC) 388/2012. The ECCN table contains hundreds of ECCN codes that are organized according to the technical parameters and/or end use of the hardware, software or technology that is being exported.
Lenovo products released for use in PRC only are not covered by the ECCN and HTS information listed on this web page. Lenovo products released outside People's Republic of China (PRC) cannot be exported or re-exported to Cuba, Iran, Myanmar, North Korea, Syria and Sudan. If you know your product’s Machine Type, but not its product type or product name, try looking it up using the “Quick Path” on the Lenovo Support site or on a Personal System Reference Sheet (PSREF). A Desktop is an “All-in-One Desktop” if the monitor is in the same case as the CPU.
Items to be exported must be classified according to the CCL and assigned the corresponding Export Control Classification Number (ECCN). This is the fundamental designation indicating the classification for an item. The ECCN determination depends on the technical characteristics of the product. Customers and partners who proceed with the export of a Microsoft product may use the ECCN provided by Microsoft to complete the Automated Export System (AES) or other documentation required for the export operation.
An Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) is an alphanumeric designation (i.e., 1A984 or 4A001) used in the CCL to identify items for export control purposes. An ECCN categorizes items based on the nature of the product, i.e. type of commodity, technology or software and its respective technical parameters. These controls are implemented through the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). If your item is subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Commerce, you should first determine if your item is designated by an Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) on the Commerce Control List (CCL).
The ECCN is a key factor in determining whether you need a license to export dual-use items outside of the U.S.The Commerce Control List can be found in Supplement 1 to Part 774 of 15 CFR or at http://www.bis.doc.gov. Determining Your ECCN: There are three approaches to determine an ECCN: 1. Go to the Source: Contact the manufacturer, producer or developer to see if they have a current ECCN for the item. Keep in mind that ECCNs may change over time, so you still need to review the ECCN to be sure you are in agreement.
ECCNs are five character alpha-numeric designations used on the Commerce Control List (CCL) to identify dual-use items for export control purposes. An ECCN categorizes items based on the nature of the product, i.e. type of commodity, software, or technology and its respective technical parameters. An ECCN is different from a Schedule B number, which is used by the Bureau of Census to collect trade statistics. The majority of commercial products are designated EAR99 and generally will not require a license to be exported or reexported. However, if you plan to export an EAR99 item to an embargoed or sanctioned country, to a party of concern, or in support of a prohibited end-use, you may be required to obtain a license.
If Your Item is Not on the Commerce Control List-EAR99. If your item falls under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Commerce and is not listed on the CCL, it is designated as EAR99. The majority of commercial products are designated EAR99 and generally will not require a license to be exported or reexported. However, if you plan to export an EAR99 item to an embargoed or sanctioned country, to a party of concern, or in support of a prohibited end-use, you may be required to obtain a license.
Please note: The ECCN and HTS information provided on this web page is for general information purposes only and does not constitute advice by Lenovo as to all relevant export and or import control regulation. If you know your product’s Machine Type, but not its product type or product name, try looking it up using the “Quick Path” on the Lenovo Support site or on a Personal System Reference Sheet (PSREF). A Desktop is an “All-in-One Desktop” if the monitor is in the same case as the CPU.
An ECCN identifies the type of control(s) for the items categorized under that ECCN. For example, an ECCN may be controlled for anti-terrorism. After obtaining the ECCN, the exporter must review the Commerce Country Chart to determine whether an export license is required to export items to that country. The ECCN table contains hundreds of ECCN codes that are organized according to the technical parameters and/or end use of the hardware, software or technology that is being exported.