Upper chest pain with breathing is usually related to rib dysfunction. Upper back pain when breathing is usually related to a sprained rib where it keys into the side of the spine. Equally as common is a pain at the front of the chest on taking a deep breath, more likely to come from a strained rib-to-breastbone junction. This is known as costochondritis
Middle back pain consists of problems in the thoracic spine which is the middle region of the spine, along with the rib cage which attaches into this part of the spine and wraps around to the front of the chest. Pain in the ribs can become insured due to injury, a fall, or even poor posture. This can lead to irritation of the joints where they attach in the mid-back, or the muscles running between each rib.
Breast pain is often confused with intercostal muscle spasm due to poor posture, twisted rib cage or subluxated or stiff mid-dorsal rib-vertebral joints in the upper middle back. Wearing an underwired bra may, over many years, cause breast tissue thickening and fibrosis. Rib and chest pain symptoms, treatment and cure. Rib and chest pain is often a deep ache or sharp, stabbing pain between the ribs which may spread as a sick-ache around or through to the front of the chest under the breast.
Severe referred rib pain to the side and front of your chest can be caused by nerve and muscle inflammation at the facet joints of your middle-back, rhomboid muscles or ligaments between your shoulder blades or from nerves in your lower neck or mid-back. Rib and chest pain symptoms, treatment and cure. Rib and chest pain is often a deep ache or sharp, stabbing pain between the ribs which may spread as a sick-ache around or through to the front of the chest under the breast.
- Intercostal muscles can become strained often as a result of rapid twisting of the torso. It’s common in sports such as basketball and tennis. 11. - Fibromyalgie can produce persistent muscle-related chest pain. - Osteomyelitis is an inflammation due to infection of the bone or bone marrow. 
The most common causes of rib cage pain are a pulled muscle or bruised ribs. Other causes of rib cage pain are: 1  broken ribs. 2  injuries to the chest. 3  rib fracture. 4  diseases that affect the bones, such as osteoporosis. 5  inflamed lining of the lungs. 6  muscle spasms. 7  inflamed rib cartilage. Causes of Rib Cage Pain. 
Chest pain is often referred from the lower neck or upper mid-back pinched nerve causing local pain as well as a deep ” hot knife or deep burning ache” referred intercostal nerve pain into the ribs at the back and to the breastbone and costal rib cartilages at the front of the chest. Rib and chest pain symptoms, treatment and cure. Rib and chest pain is often a deep ache or sharp, stabbing pain between the ribs which may spread as a sick-ache around or through to the front of the chest under the breast.
Most rib pain we see starts with a upper body twisting movement or with forceful backward pulling of the shoulder blades. Many of our ribs attach to the vertebrae (the bones) of our back. So for example, when we twist to the right, the vertebrae should also rotate and twist in unison with the ribs attached to them. Potentially, anywhere where there are ribs! But to one side of the spine is common, which is where the rib joins the edge of the vertebra. In other cases, the pain can be at the front of the chest. For instance, problems with the 4th and 5th rib on the left can cause sufficient chest to worry a person that they're having a heart attack
Chest pain may also be caused by problems in your lungs, esophagus, muscles, ribs, or nerves, for example. Some of these conditions are serious and life threatening. Others are not. If you have unexplained chest pain, the only way to confirm its cause is to have a doctor evaluate you. This can cause pain known as angina. It's a symptom of heart disease but typically does not cause permanent damage to the heart. It is, though, a sign that you are a candidate for a heart attack at some point in the future. The chest pain may spread to your arm, shoulder, jaw, or back.