1 Cannot spread TB bacteria to others. 2  Needs treatment for latent TB infection to prevent TB disease; however, if exposed and infected by a person with multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB) or extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR TB), preventive treatment may not be an option. The only sign of TB infection is a positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test or TB blood test. Persons with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB infection to others. Overall, without treatment, about 5 to 10% of infected persons will develop TB disease at some time in their lives.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a germ called Mycobacterium tuberculosis that is spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. The only sign of TB infection is a positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test or TB blood test. Persons with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB infection to others. Overall, without treatment, about 5 to 10% of infected persons will develop TB disease at some time in their lives.
“Latent tuberculosis” is the term used for people who test positive for tuberculosis (most commonly with a positive tuberculin skin test), but do not have any evidence of active infection. Currently one in three people worldwide are felt to harbor tuberculosis bacilli. 
1 Does not feel sick. 2  Cannot spread TB bacteria to others. 3  Needs treatment for latent TB infection to prevent TB disease; however, if exposed and infected by a person with multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB) or extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR TB), preventive treatment may not be an option. The only sign of TB infection is a positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test or TB blood test. Persons with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB infection to others. Overall, without treatment, about 5 to 10% of infected persons will develop TB disease at some time in their lives.
Latent TB is treated with a course of antibiotics for either three or six months, depending on what tablets you are given. It is important that you take the tablets properly and finish the full course of treatment to make sure that the TB bacteria are successfully killed. You have a greater risk of catching TB (active or latent) if you: 1  know someone who has had TB in their throat or lungs. 2  live or work in poorly ventilated or overcrowded conditions, where TB can spread more easily. 3  have links to areas of the world where TB is more common, such as Africa, Asia or Eastern Europe.
Tuberculosis is either latent or active. 1  Latent TB means that you have the TB bacteria in your body, but your body's defenses (immune system) are keeping it from turning into active TB. 2  Active TB means that the TB bacteria are growing and causing symptoms. 1 Latent TB means that you have the TB bacteria in your body, but your body's defenses (immune system) are keeping it from turning into active TB. 2  This means that you don't have any symptoms of TB right now and can't spread the disease to others. 3  If you have latent TB, it can become active TB
They are infected with M. tuberculosis, but do not have TB disease. The only sign of TB infection is a positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test or TB blood test. Persons with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB infection to others. Overall, without treatment, about 5 to 10% of infected persons will develop TB disease at some time in their lives.
Latent TB is when a person has TB bacteria in their body but there are no symptoms, so they don’t feel unwell. You cannot pass latent TB on to others, but there is a risk that you will become ill with active TB later on, especially if your immune system is weakened, such as through another illness. You have a greater risk of catching TB (active or latent) if you: 1  know someone who has had TB in their throat or lungs. 2  live or work in poorly ventilated or overcrowded conditions, where TB can spread more easily. 3  have links to areas of the world where TB is more common, such as Africa, Asia or Eastern Europe.
A diagnosis of latent tuberculosis (LTB), also called latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) means a patient is infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, but the patient does not have active tuberculosis. To give treatment for latent tuberculosis to someone with active tuberculosis is a serious error: the tuberculosis will not be adequately treated and there is a serious risk of developing drug-resistant strains of TB.