Goldfish ponds need to provide clean, well oxygenated water for its inhabitants to grow up happy and healthy. A goldfish can grow up to 12 inches(30cm) plus. The minimum size pond is 8 feet X 6 feet and 3 feet deep(2.5m X 2m X 1m). The larger the pond the better for your goldfish. Being tempted to economise, some people end up building 2 or 3 ponds to get to the desired size.
Where goldfish are concerned, a goldfish pond only needs to be about 2 feet deep. However, one must make accommodations for winter when the water will freeze. The colder one's region, the more depth will be required to ensure that the water does not freeze completely in the winter.
The rule of thumb is smaller ponds that are around two feet deep are perfect for Goldfish, but Koi need to be kept in deeper water and much larger ponds. However, the deeper a pond the better no matter what size it is.
If you are going to keep fish in your backyard pond it must be at least 4 feet (1.2 m) deep. Waterlilies do their best in 3 to 5 feet (0.9 to 1.5 m) of water. The deepest end of the pond is where you place the bottom drain and that should be located furthest away from the water return.
1 A pond for goldfish or water lilies need be only about 2 feet deep for zones 5 or greater. 2  Ponds built in colder areas may need more depth to keep the pond from freezing solid. 3  Ponds built for koi should be close to three feet or deeper to allow these larger fish enough space.
1 Now you need to determine the size of your pond or water garden. 2  The best way to do this is to use a rope or water hose and lay out the shape on the ground. 3  A pond for goldfish or water lilies need be only about 2 feet deep for zones 5 or greater.
The cost is around 50% less expensive than a koi pond. Goldfish ponds can be as small as 500 gallons and as big as 1500 gallons. Goldfish ponds are alot of times referred to as water gardens. Goldfish ponds are for those that want the excitement of the fish and the soothing water sounds.
A small garden pond with a waterfall should be deep enough that the bog and aquatic plants' soil are under 3 to 6 inches of water. Generally, garden ponds are 18 to 24 inches deep.
If it's a smallish pond, then Goldfish would be the better choice because Koi need a lot more space. In fact they should not be put in ponds that hold less than 1000 gallons of water and depth wise they need a minimum of three feet or preferably more in order to do well and thrive.