Legal Costs. Each state has different probate laws, so the costs can vary a great deal. For most estates, both an executor and a lawyer will be required for the probate process. Some states set a limit on the amount of fees that lawyers and executors can charge for probate services. For example, California estates worth less than $100,000 do not need to go through probate, while in Wisconsin the threshold is $50,000. In addition, most states offer a shortened and simplified probate process for small estates.
Kinds of Fee Arrangements. Lawyers usually use one of three methods to charge for probate work: by the hour, a flat fee, or a percentage of the value of the estate assets. Your lawyer may let you pick how you pay—for example, $250/hour or a $1,500 flat fee for handling a routine probate case. You can hire a lawyer to handle the whole probate case or just help you do it. (See  Working With a Probate Lawyer .) Either way, keep in mind that as executor, you don’t pay the probate lawyer’s fee from your own pocket.
Bank’s fees for probate can generally work out at between 4% and 5%, so are generally not good value. Solicitor’s Probate fees are usually based on guidance from the Law Society which sets an initial fee of 0.75% of the value of the property, plus 1.5% of the value of other assets, and other charges on top of that. But even for smaller estates, the probate fees don’t often to go below £2,000 – £3,000. Specialist firms such as Will-Drafters Ltd make their livelihoods by consistently under-cutting solicitors quotes. While these figures provide a guide, it is important to ask around and get prices.
In most states, an estate does not have to go through the probate process if it is worth less than a particular amount. For example, California estates worth less than $100,000 do not need to go through probate, while in Wisconsin the threshold is $50,000. In addition, most states offer a shortened and simplified probate process for small estates. Each state has an amount for what qualifies as a small estate
Typically, if you want help applying for probate, there are three main providers, banks, wills and probate companies, and Solicitors. Most banks in our experience charge a fixed percentage of the estate typically, 2-4%, which we believe to be unfair, as it can lead to ridiculous fees being charged. We focus on the legal aspect of obtaining probate, which relates to the application to the probate registry and completion of inheritance tax returns which must be completed in every case. We charge a fixed fee that ranges from £300-£500 plus vat and court fees of £50. We can typically obtain within 3-5 weeks.
We focus on the legal aspect of obtaining probate, which relates to the application to the probate registry and completion of inheritance tax returns which must be completed in every case. We charge a fixed fee that ranges from £400-£500 plus vat and court fees of £150. We can typically obtain within 3-5 weeks. 
The probate fee. The fee for applying for probate or letters of administration depends on the value of the estate. There is no fee where the value of the estate is less than £5,000. The fee for an estate valued at £5,000 or more is £215. If you are named in someone's will as an executor, you may have to apply for probate. This is a legal document which gives you the authority to share out the estate of the person who has died according to the instructions in the will. You do not always need probate to be able to deal with
This is very common in firms that do probate work; legal assistants often draw up the routine paperwork. Many lawyers bill in minimum increments of six minutes (one-tenth of an hour). So, if your lawyer (or a legal assistant) spends two minutes on a phone call on behalf of the estate, you’ll be billed for six minutes. You can hire a lawyer to handle the whole probate case or just help you do it. (See  Working With a Probate Lawyer .) Either way, keep in mind that as executor, you don’t pay the probate lawyer’s fee from your own pocket.
Lawyers can charge from £100 per hour to £250 per hour or more for probate work, depending on the seniority of the person on your case. If a simple estate took 10 hours it would be much cheaper than a more complex will taking 20 hours’ work – and a solicitor would have to quote depending on your circumstances. What’s more, solicitors’ probate fees in London can be prohibitively high. But even for smaller estates, the probate fees don’t often to go below £2,000 – £3,000. Specialist firms such as Will-Drafters Ltd make their livelihoods by consistently under-cutting solicitors quotes. While these figures provide a guide, it is important to ask around and get prices.
You can get an idea of how high these fees are by looking at California’s statutory fee schedule. For “ordinary” services, a lawyer can collect: 1  4% of the first 100,000 of the gross value of the probate estate. 2  3% of the next $100,000. 3  2% of the next $800,000. 4  1% of the next $9 million. 5  ½% of the next 15 million. You can hire a lawyer to handle the whole probate case or just help you do it. (See  Working With a Probate Lawyer .) Either way, keep in mind that as executor, you don’t pay the probate lawyer’s fee from your own pocket.