Water Temperature: 75 Degrees While a few lingering crappie may still be spawning, postspawn fish will hang around bedding areas for several days until the water temperature rises. Some postspawn fish will be on isolated pieces of cover adjacent to spawning sites as the males move back in to protect the nests. Crappies are probably suspending 18 to 30 feet deep in 50 feet of water. You can still catch crappie in shallow water if you can find shady areas such as lily pads and over-hanging trees where water may be cooler.
Water Temperature: 45 DegreesMany crappies have started migrating toward their eventual spawning areas. Target crappie hanging tight to submerged wood on deep channel banks, about a quarter of the way into the creek arm, 10 to 20 feet deep. Crappies are probably suspending 18 to 30 feet deep in 50 feet of water. You can still catch crappie in shallow water if you can find shady areas such as lily pads and over-hanging trees where water may be cooler.
Water clarity’s affect-Water clarity, or more accurately light penetration, dictates the depth crappie find comfortable at all times during the year, and especially during the spawn. Muddy to heavily stained water keeps crappie shallow, and during the spawn they can be in as little as 1 foot of water. As the water clears, crappie move deeper, and in extremely clear water can spawn as deep as 20 feet. 
When you are on the lake and looking for crappie during the spawn, look for shallow, timber or other cover loaded coves. Try to find areas where the water is 1 to 2 feet, has a sandy bottom, but has plenty of cover like bulrushes, submerged timber or branches, lilly pads, and the like. They generally precede the bass spawn, and could spawn as early as late December, depending on the water temperature. The ideal water temperature for the crappie to spawn is the low 60 degrees, and finding water temperature in the 62 to 65 degree range will most certainly get the crappie in the spawning mode.
Water Temperature: 45 Degrees Many crappies have started migrating toward their eventual spawning areas. Target crappie hanging tight to submerged wood on deep channel banks, about a quarter of the way into the creek arm, 10 to 20 feet deep. Crappies are probably suspending 18 to 30 feet deep in 50 feet of water. You can still catch crappie in shallow water if you can find shady areas such as lily pads and over-hanging trees where water may be cooler.
Article #4. Water Temperature and Crappie Most experienced anglers consider water temperature to be the single most important factor governing the occurrence and behavior of crappie and their locations. They sometimes behave in what seems an irrational or unpredictable way. Water Temperature and Crappie Most experienced anglers consider water temperature to be the single most important factor governing the occurrence and behavior of crappie and their locations
At what temperature do crappie spawn? Crappies will spawn when water temperatures reach between fifty-eight and sixty-six degrees F. However, when the temperatures start reaching between forty-seven and fifty-four degrees F, the crappies will start moving closer to the spawning areas where they will make the nests. 
Water Temperature: 35 Degrees Crappie will be holding tight to bottom cover in 30-50 feet deep and tight-lipped, but they still need to eat and is catchable with the right presentation. Crappies are probably suspending 18 to 30 feet deep in 50 feet of water. You can still catch crappie in shallow water if you can find shady areas such as lily pads and over-hanging trees where water may be cooler.