A popular bhajan that celebrates Krishna as Damodara is the Damodarashtakam (found in the Padma Purana of Krishna Dwaipayana Vyasa, spoken by Satyavrata Muni in a conversation with Narada and Shaunaka .). It is often sung by devotees during the month of Kaartika, and is very popular amongst the Vaishnavas of ISKCON. The various meanings of the name are given as follows:  1 The Lord when He was tied with a cord (daama) around His waist (udara), denoting a divine pastime in which Krishna's mother Yasoda bound Krishna for being mischievous. ( 2 Used by various Vaishnava adherents.).
Damodar. n. 1. (Placename) a river in NE India, rising in Jharkhand and flowing east through West Bengal to the Hooghly River: the Damodar Valley is an important centre of heavy industry. 1  Facebook.
Rich in mineral resources, the valley is home to large-scale mining and industrial activity. Earlier known as the Sorrow of Bengal because of its ravaging floods in the plains of West Bengal, the Damodar and its tributaries have been somewhat tamed with the construction of several dams. Damodar River was earlier known as the River of Sorrows as it used to flood many areas of Bardhaman, Hooghly, Howrah and Medinipur districts.
» Definition of name 'Damodar'. » Origin of name 'Damodar'. » Gender of name 'Damodar'. » Rashi of name 'Damodar'. » Auspicious stones for 'Damodar'. » Religion of name 'Damodar'. » List of names similar to 'Damodar'. » Variant of name 'Damodar'. Find qualities of Cancerian (Kark), Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Damodar or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kark (Cancer), Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Daamodar, Damodara
Damodar. n. 1. (Placename) a river in NE India, rising in Jharkhand and flowing east through West Bengal to the Hooghly River: the Damodar Valley is an important centre of heavy industry. 1  Facebook.
Damodar (also spelled Damodara and Damodarah) is the 367th Name of Vishnu from the Vishnu sahasranama. The various meanings of the name are given as follows:  1 The Lord when He was tied with a cord (daama) around His waist (udara), denoting a divine pastime in which Krishna's mother Yasoda bound Krishna for being mischievous. ( 2 Used by various Vaishnava adherents.).
Name Damodar generally means Lord Krishna, is of Indian origin, Name Damodar is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Person with name Damodar are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Damodar belongs to rashi Kark (Cancer), Meen (Pisces) with dominant planet Jupiter (Guru) and Nakshatra (stars) Arudra, Pushyami, Purva Bhadra. Find qualities of Cancerian (Kark), Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Damodar or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kark (Cancer), Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Daamodar, Damoda
The Barakar is the most important tributary of the Damodar. It originates near Padma in Hazaribagh district and flows through Jharkhand before meeting the Damodar near Dishergarh in West Bengal. The Damodar and the Barakar trifurcates the Chota Nagpur plateau. Damodar River was earlier known as the River of Sorrows as it used to flood many areas of Bardhaman, Hooghly, Howrah and Medinipur districts.
Meaning & History. Means rope around the belly, derived from Sanskrit दाम (dama) rope and उदर (udara) belly. This is another name of the Hindu god Krishna, given to him because his foster-mother tied him to a large urn. 