Considerations. The benefit of eating carrots is that they support your energy needs with 1 gram of starch and 3.4 grams of sugar, while having a small impact on your blood sugar. The glycemic index measures how quickly and how much carbohydrates from foods increase levels of glucose in your blood. 
1 1 In 2-quart saucepan, heat 1 cup water to boiling. 2  Add carrots; return to boiling. 3  Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 8 to 10 minutes, adding sugar snap peas during last 5 minutes of cooking, until carrots are tender. 4  Drain; return to saucepan. 5  2 Stir in marmalade, seasoned salt, ginger and pepper. 1 Add carrots; return to boiling. 2  Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 8 to 10 minutes, adding sugar snap peas during last 5 minutes of cooking, until carrots are tender. 3
1 Place carrots in a large saucepan; add 1 in. of water. 2  Bring to a boil. 3  Reduce heat; cover and simmer for 5-8 minutes or until crisp-tender. 4  Add peas; return to a boil. 5  Reduce heat; cover and simmer 5-10 minutes longer or until vegetables are tender. 6  Drain, reserving 1/2 cup cooking liquid. 1 Add peas; return to a boil. 2  Reduce heat; cover and simmer 5-10 minutes longer or until vegetables are tender. 3  Drain, reserving 1/2 cup cooking liquid. 4  Return vegetables and reserved liquid to the pan. 5  In a small bowl, combine the cornstarch, salt, pepper and cream until smooth. 6  Stir into vegetables.
Starchy vegetables are healthy, but they are higher in carbohydrate than other vegetables and they have more calories. Therefore, these vegetables are grouped with other starchy foods instead of vegetables. One serving of any starchy vegetable is about 1/2 cup cooked vegetable. Starchy vegetables include: 1  Corn. People with diabetes do not need to avoid foods found in the starch and starchy vegetables group. In fact, people with diabetes need to eat foods from this group to help meet their daily requirement for calories, macronutrients, fiber, vitamins, and minerals and for overall good health.
Directions. 1  Place carrots in a large saucepan; add 1 in. of water. 2  Bring to a boil. 3  Reduce heat; cover and simmer for 5-8 minutes or until crisp-tender. 4  Add peas; return to a boil. 5  Reduce heat; cover and simmer 5-10 minutes longer or until vegetables are tender. 1 Add peas; return to a boil. 2  Reduce heat; cover and simmer 5-10 minutes longer or until vegetables are tender. 3  Drain, reserving 1/2 cup cooking liquid. 4  Return vegetables and reserved liquid to the pan. 5  In a small bowl, combine the cornstarch, salt, pepper and cream until smooth. 6  Stir into vegetables.
You don't often hear that when you have diabetes, but non-starchy vegetables are one food group where you can satisfy your appetite. Vegetables are full of vitamins, minerals, fiber, and phytochemicals—and with so few calories and carbohydrate, everyone can enjoy more! There are two main types of vegetables—starchy and non-starchy. For this section, we are going to focus only on the non-starchy vegetables.
Starchy vegetables are high-carbohydrate plant foods that contain a rich energy source for man. Starch is a carbohydrate formed from the bonding of several glucose units, and is the most common form of stored energy from plants that is present in the human diet. Green plants produce starch and many staple foods like potatoes, rice, and corn contain large amounts of this organic compound. Starch in vegetables are digested primarily by gastric amylase, an enzyme found in the gastrointestinal tract, and the digested starch is then stored in the cells to be used as energy.
Corn, peas, parsnips, potatoes, pumpkin, squash, zucchini and yams are all examples of starchy vegetables. Non-starchy vegetables are typically flowering parts of the plant. Lettuce, asparagus, broccoli, cauliflower, cucumber, spinach, mushrooms, onions, peppers and tomatoes are all considered non-starchy vegetables. You need both starchy and non-starchy veggies in your diet. Both starchy and non-starchy vegetables are an important part of your diet. They offer plenty of fiber, vitamins and minerals, but are relatively low in calories. The major difference between starchy and non-starchy vegetables is that starchy veggies have a higher starch content, thus they are also higher in calori
Starchy vegetables like potatoes, corn and peas are included in the  Grains and Starchy Vegetables  section because they contain more carbohydrate. Vegetables are full of vitamins, minerals, fiber, and phytochemicals—and with so few calories and carbohydrate, everyone can enjoy more! There are two main types of vegetables—starchy and non-starchy. For this section, we are going to focus only on the non-starchy vegetables.