Much of Jim Justice's attention focuses on giving the historic Greenbrier Resorts a facelift. After buying Greenbrier out of bankruptcy in 2009, Justice has transformed it into a 10,000-acre complex with PGA-quality golfing, an underground casino, and with any luck, ski slopes. The source of his original wealth, the coal business he inherited from his dad, has however caused headaches--and not just because coal prices have fallen. Protests and lawsuits have piled up, and at one point in 2014, he faced over 200 pending regulatory violations, resulting in million dollar settlements and fines.
The family resides in Bentonville, Arkansas. He is currently ranked at #10 on the 2014 Forbes list of billionaires with a net worth of $34.7 billion that has increased by $3 billion. On the 2013 Forbes 400 list of the richest people in America he is ranked at #7. For other people named Jim Walton, see Jim Walton (disambiguation) . James Carr Walton (born June 7, 1948) is the youngest son of Sam Walton, the founder of world's largest retailer Walmart.
Others will give me a free pass because I'm George and Barb's boy, Jeb Bush said. But I think the majority of people want to know about me.. * * * The Jeb Bush family lives in a Miami ranch-style house valued at $575,000. His net worth is 2.4-million. By the end of 1997, Jeb Bush sold off most of his real estate holdings and stakes in innumerable private business deals. His last payment from Codina was a bonus of $630,000. His net worth, including his investments, home and belongings was put at $2.4-million. To simplify his investments, he put the bulk of his liquid assets -- $1.2-million -- into 10 mutual funds. Bush did that to avoid front-page headlines in newspapers about implied conflicts, he explained. I still get them
Creflo Dollar is senior pastor of World Changers Church International with a net worth of $27 million. He leads one of the nation’s largest mega-churches, located in College Park, Georgia. Dollar also hosts a television show, Changing Your World, on cable networks. Bishop David Oyedepo. Nigeria preacher David Oyedepo is one of the wealthiest preachers in the world, with a reported net worth of $150 million. In 1981, he founded the Living Faith World Outreach Ministry in Ogun State, Nigeria, and it has grown to become Africa’s largest congregation.
Jim Walton is the third child of Wal-Mart co-founder Sam Walton (d. 1992) and Helen Walton (d. 2007) with siblings Rob Walton, Alice Walton, and John Walton (d. 2005). For other people named Jim Walton, see Jim Walton (disambiguation) . James Carr Walton (born June 7, 1948) is the youngest son of Sam Walton, the founder of world's largest retailer Walmart.
James Avery net worth: $3 Million. James Avery net worth: James Avery was an American actor who had a net worth of $3 million. James Avery was born on November 27, 1948 in Virginia. He was probably most famous for playing the role of Judge Philip Banks on the NBC sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air