Bile, required for the digestion of food, is secreted by the liver into passages that carry bile toward the hepatic duct, which joins with the cystic duct (carrying bile to and from the gallbladder) to form the common bile duct, which opens into the intestine. 
The common bile duct (Latin: ductus choledochus), sometimes abbreviated CBD, is a tube-like anatomic structure in the gastrointestinal tract of organisms that have a gall bladder. When the sphincter of Oddi is closed, newly synthesized bile from the liver is forced into storage in the gall bladder. When open, the stored and concentrated bile exits into the duodenum. This conduction of bile is the main function of the common bile duct.
The left and right hepatic ducts exit from the liver and join to form the common hepatic duct in an area called the hilum. Lower down, the gallbladder (a small organ that stores bile) joins the common hepatic duct through a small duct called the cystic duct. The combined duct is called the common bile duct. The bile ducts are a series of thin tubes that reach from the liver to the small intestine. The major function of the bile ducts is to move a fluid called bile from the liver and gallbladder to the small intestine, where it helps digest the fats in food. Different parts of the bile duct system have different names.
Bile duct cancer arises from the cells that line the bile ducts, the drainage system for bile produced by the liver. Bile ducts collect this bile, draining it into the gallbladder and finally into the small intestine where it aids in the digestion process. Bile duct cancer is also called cholangiocarcinoma. 
Common bile duct: The duct that carries bile from the gallbladder and liver into the duodenum (upper part of the small intestine). The common bile duct is formed by the junction of the cystic duct, from the gallbladder, and the common hepatic duct, from the liver. 
Bile ducts within the liver join together to form one main bile duct, located immediately outside the liver, which carries bile to the small intestine. This main bile duct is called the common hepatic duct. 
The common bile duct is a tube that connects the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas to the small intestine and helps to deliver fluids that aid digestion. A cholangiogram is an x-ray that determines if a stone is blocking the flow of bile from the liver and gallbladder to the intestines. The common bile duct is a tube that connects the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas to the small intestine and helps to deliver fluids that aid digestion. A common bile duct exploration is indicated if a stone is blocking the common bile duct. Cholecystectomy.
Common bile duct. The common bile duct is a small, tube-like structure formed where the common hepatic duct and the cystic duct join. Its physiological role is to carry bile from the gallbladder and empty it into the upper part of the small intestine (the duodenum). The common bile duct is part of the biliary system. Bile is a greenish-brown fluid that helps digest fats from our food intake.
The common: Bile duct is formed by the coming together of the bile duct from the liver and the bile duct from the gallbaldder. It ends in the small bowel. ...Read more. Dr. Steven Seres Board Certified 15 years in practice 435K people helped. 
1 Perihilar bile duct cancer: This type of cancer is found in the hilum region, the area where the right and left bile ducts exit the liver and join to form the common hepatic duct. 2  Perihilar bile duct cancer is also called a Klatskin tumor or perihilar cholangiocarcinoma. 