The thallus of a fungus is usually called a mycelium. The term thallus is also commonly used to refer to the vegetative body of a lichen. In seaweed, thallus is sometimes also called ' frond '. The gametophyte of some non-thallophyte plants -- clubmosses, horsetails, and ferns is termed  prothallus . 
Thallus (Greek: θαλλός) was an early historian who wrote in Koine Greek. He wrote a three-volume history of the Mediterranean world from before the Trojan War to the 167th Olympiad, c. 112-109 BC. This darkness Thallus, in the third book of his 'History', calls, as appears to me without reason, an eclipse of the sun.. A solar eclipse. It takes about an hour for the moon to cover the sun, with total coverage lasting a few minutes. Solar eclipses are impossible at Passover.
thallus. The vegetative body of a plant that is not differentiated into organs such as stems and leaves, for example algae, the gametophytes of many liverworts. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
Definition of THALLUS. : a plant body that lacks differentiation into distinct parts (as stem, leaves, and roots), does not grow from an apical point, and is characteristic of organisms formerly classified as thallophytes. ADVERTISEMENT.
thallus. 1. a simple plant body not differentiated into root, stem and leaf, characteristic of mycelial fungi and some algae. 2. the actively growing vegetative organism as distinguished from reproductive or resting portions, as in fungi. 
The vegetative part of the lichen is the thallus, and this can develop into a morphologically diverse range of structures: multiply branched tufts, flat, leaf-like structures, filamentous structures, aggregations of tiny plates, thin crusts, layers of powdery granules, or hardly any visible thallus at all. 
Medical Definition of THALLUS. : a plant or plantlike body (as of an alga, fungus, or moss) that lacks differentiation into distinct members (as stem, leaves, and roots) and does not grow from an apical point. : a plant body that lacks differentiation into distinct parts (as stem, leaves, and roots), does not grow from an apical point, and is characteristic of organisms formerly classified as thallophytes. ADVERTISEMENT.
Noun. 1. thallus-a plant body without true stems or roots or leaves or vascular system; characteristic of the thallophytes. crustose thallus-thin crusty lichen thallus; adheres closely to or is embedded in the surface on which it grows. plant part, plant structure-any part of a plant or fungus. 1  Facebook.
• THALLUS (noun). The noun THALLUS has 1 sense: 1. a plant body without true stems or roots or leaves or vascular system; characteristic of the thallophytes. Familiarity information: THALLUS used as a noun is very rare. A plant body without true stems or roots or leaves or vascular system; characteristic of the thallophytes. Classified under: Nouns denoting plants. Hypernyms (thallus is a kind of...): plant part; plant structure (any part of a plant or fungus).
thallus. noun thal·lus \ˈthal-əs\. plural thal·li \ˈthal-ˌī, -ˌē\ or thal·lus·es. : a plant or plantlike body (as of an alga, fungus, or moss) that lacks differentiation into distinct members (as stem, leaves, and roots) and does not grow from an apical point. : a plant body that lacks differentiation into distinct parts (as stem, leaves, and roots), does not grow from an apical point, and is characteristic of organisms formerly classified as thallophytes. ADVERTISEMENT.