This ca. 1840-1850 Conestoga wagon, a freight hauler in Pennsylvania, represents the role of covered wagons in pushing the American frontier westward. This Conestoga wagon was put on display in September and will remain on view through late December 2012. Thomas Harper of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, received goods for shipment to Pittsburgh by Conestoga wagon. Covered wagons helped push the American frontier all the way to the Pacific Ocean, but for western trails the Conestoga wagon morphed into the prairie schooner.
Role of the Conestoga Wagon in American History. The peak years of use for the Conestoga wagons were from 1820 to 1840. They were used most extensively in Pennsylvania and the nearby states of Maryland, Ohio and Virginia.
T he covered wagon used to cross the plains to the west was a smaller, lighter version of the big Conestoga wagon used in the east. The cloth top that protected people and possessions from extreme weather conditions also was the prime reason that the wagon was sometimes referred to as the prairie schooner. 
The Covered wagon was long the dominant form of transport in pre-industrial America. With roots in the heavy Conestoga wagon developed for the rough, undeveloped roads and paths of the colonial East, the covered wagon spread west with American migration.
1749   ----   The covered wagon was invented in 1749, the same year that the Conestoga wagon was invented.   ----   The covered wagon that became such an importa … nt part of this country's westward movement was actually invented in Pennsylvania. Near Lancaster, PA, is the Conestoga Valley, from where the wagon got its name. The Pennsylvania German wagon builders invented this unique wagon to fit the surrounding landscape around 1730. It is said that by 1750 there were seven thousand of these wagons in use
One of the most popular wagons used by the pioneers was the Conestoga Wagon. This sturdy wagon was invented by Pennsylvania Dutch immigrants in the Conestoga Valley. Conestoga Wagons moved freight and people westward over the Allegheny Mountains and to the far West from the 1770s through the mid 1800s. These popular wagons were often referred to as the Camels of the Prairie
Though the term Conestoga wagon is sometimes mistakenly used as a synonym for covered wagon, the name in fact only refers to the specific type of heavy, broad-wheeled covered wagon first manufactured in the Conestoga River region of Pennsylvania's Lancaster County in the mid-18th century. The peak years of use for the Conestoga wagons were from 1820 to 1840. They were used most extensively in Pennsylvania and the nearby states of Maryland, Ohio and Virginia.
Confidence votes 612. 1749 The covered wagon was invented in 1749, the same year that the Conestoga wagon was invented. The covered wagon that became such an important part of this country's westward movement was actually invented in Pennsylvania. Near Lancaster, PA, is the Conestoga Valley, from where the wagon got its name. The Pennsylvania German wagon builders invented this unique wagon to fit the surrounding landscape around 1730
The Conestoga wagon is a heavy, covered wagon that was used extensively during the late eighteenth century and the nineteenth century in the United States and Canada. The term Conestoga wagon refers specifically to this type of vehicle; it is not a generic term for covered wagon. The wagons used in the westward expansion of the United States were, for the most part, ordinary farm wagons fitted with canvas covers.