Coix seeds are harvested when the plant ripens in the autumn. The husks are removed and the seed is used either fresh, boiled, roasted, or fermented. In traditional Chinese medicine, a liquor fermented from coix seeds may be given for rheumatism. Coix is used in traditional Chinese medicine, where it is called yi yi ren. In English it is also known as Job's tears. Coix is an annual plant that grows wild to a height of about 3 ft (1 m) in sunny but moist grasslands.
1 Boiled coix seeds can be also be used to make a tea which is beneficial in curing warts. 2  The tea also helps to nourish and moisturize the skin. 3  The seeds may be ground with honey to make a smooth paste which can be used to treat problem areas on the skin such as redness and blemishes. 1 After the husks of coix seeds are removed, they are used to treat ailments of the lungs, large intestines, spleen and stomach. 2  The seeds are sweet and mild in flavor. 3  Traditional natural medicines make use of coix to encourage the passage of water in the body. 4  It is diuretic in nature and promotes proper flow of urine.
Coix is the common name for the Chinese medicinal material Coix lacryma-jobi seed. The entire coix plant and its seed pod are commonly called Job’s Tears, which is the English equivalent of the Latin species name (lacryma = tears): the seed pod often has a tear drop appearance. These are two of the important ingredients of Coix Combination (which also contains ma-huang, tang-kuei, cinnamon twig, peony, and licorice). Coix Combination is known among Kampo practitioners as a remedy for early stage and mild forms of arthritis (5).
(December 2008). Job's tears (US) or Job's-tears (UK), scientific name Coix lacryma-jobi, also known as coixseed, tear grass, hato mugi, adlay or adlai, is a tall grain-bearing perennial tropical plant of the family Poaceae (grass family) native to Southeast Asia but elsewhere cultivated in gardens as an annual. 
Coix seeds are harvested when the plant ripens in the autumn. The husks are removed and the seed is used either fresh, boiled, roasted, or fermented. In traditional Chinese medicine, a liquor fermented from coix seeds may be given for rheumatism. Coix is used in traditional Chinese medicine, where it is called yi yi ren. In English it is also known as Job's tears. Coix is an annual plant that grows wild to a height of about 3 ft (1 m) in sunny but moist grasslands. It is also cultivated in many parts of the Orient.
In traditional Chinese medicine, coix seed is used to treat internal dampness and damp-heat conditions, especially disorders of the spleen, stomach, lungs, and large intestine. Chinese herbalists used coix to improve water flow through the body. It is used to promote urination and as a diuretic to treat edema. Coix is used in traditional Chinese medicine, where it is called yi yi ren. In English it is also known as Job's tears. Coix is an annual plant that grows wild to a height of about 3 ft (1 m) in sunny but moist grasslands. It is also cultivated in many parts of the Orient.
One popular application is making rosaries, as the beads are especially resistant to damage by moisture and have a valued symbolism of tears. The seeds (caryopses) of Coix lacryma-jobi are used as a source of food, sometimes called adlay seed; a variety of the plant (var. ma-yuen = var. adlay) having relatively softer pods is relied upon for this use, while hard shell pods are used for beads. These are two of the important ingredients of Coix Combination (which also contains ma-huang, tang-kuei, cinnamon twig, peony, and licorice). Coix Combination is known among Kampo practitioners as a remedy for early stage and mild forms of arthritis (5).
Coix (botanical name Coix lachryma-jobi) is an annual plant belonging to the Poaceae (grass) family. This herb is extensively used in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and known as yi yi ren in China. The English name of the plant is Job's tears. In addition, coix is now cultivated in several oriental regions. The domestication of the plant is believed to have occurred in the Philippines. The plant is native to East Asia, but is now found all over China, Japan, east India, the Caribbean, northern Africa, Central America, US as well as northern South America.
Coix or Job's tears are a type of branched grass with broad leaves. Found in India, Pakistan, China, Malaysia and Sri Lanka, it is well known for its health benefits. 1 After the husks of coix seeds are removed, they are used to treat ailments of the lungs, large intestines, spleen and stomach. 2  The seeds are sweet and mild in flavor. 3  Traditional natural medicines make use of coix to encourage the passage of water in the body. 4  It is diuretic in nature and promotes proper flow of urine.
Coix is a plant whose botanical name is Coix lacryma-jobi. It belongs to the Gramineae (or Poaceae) family. Coix is used in traditional Chinese medicine, where it is called yi yi ren. In English it is also known as Job's tears. Coix is an annual plant that grows wild to a height of about 3 ft (1 m) in sunny but moist grasslands. It is also cultivated in many parts of the Orient.