While the costs of leasing an MRI machine might seem a bit on the higher side, it is still cheaper than making a purchase upfront. You should also consider how much it would cost you to upgrade the machine if you purchase it rather than lease it. You start browsing through the internet to find out how much it costs to lease an MRI machine. Before you pick up the phone to contact a lessor whom you think has the best rates, consider these facts:
The Philips Achieva line of MRI systems offers a full range of model options, including the Achieva 3.0T TX, Achieva 3.0T X-series, Achieva XR, Achieva 1.5T A-series, Achieva 1.5T SE and the Achieva mobile series. Every MRI system is a powerful piece of medical equipment, but few can match the power of the Siemens Symphony Maestro 1.5T MRI scanner. Using Siemens’ Power-class technology, the Siemens Symphony Maestro can reduce scanning time by up to 75%.
Confidence votes 173. MRI equipment varies in cost, depending on the strength of the scanner. Scanners with more strength produce more detailed images; therefore, these scanners cost more. MRI machines can range in cost between $1 and $3 million. Construction of MRI suites can easily add another $500,000 to the total cost. An extremity MRI machine alone costs $300,000 or more, and can only be used to scan hands, feet and knees. Purchasing a used-extremity MRI scanner can cost as much as $150,000
You also have to factor in the cost of installing your MRI machine. You also have to factor in other costs such as reinstallation to a new site. If your lease does not include repair costs and maintenance, you will also have to pay for them. You start browsing through the internet to find out how much it costs to lease an MRI machine. Before you pick up the phone to contact a lessor whom you think has the best rates, consider these facts:
The cost of the MRI machine is not that important because it is only part of the equation. After you have negotiated a rate you think is suitable for you, there are a few factors that you need to consider. You start browsing through the internet to find out how much it costs to lease an MRI machine. Before you pick up the phone to contact a lessor whom you think has the best rates, consider these facts:
GE MRI Equipment For Sale. Providian Medical carries the most popular and reliable MRI systems from GE at an excellent price. We carry GE's Signa lines from 1.5 to 3.0 Tesla, including the HD, HDX, HDXT, HDe, Excite and Excite 3+ MRI scanners. Providian Medical has an extensive refurbishing process for all of our used GE MRI machines and we offer excellent warranty and service at a low cost. 
There are times and situations that call for an MRI machine rental or a mobile MRI scanner. For example, if current equipment is in need of routine maintenance, upgrade, or repair, the services of the MRI machine at a medical facility cannot just stop. 
Cost. MRI equipment varies in cost, depending on the strength of the scanner. Scanners with more strength produce more detailed images; therefore, these scanners cost more. MRI machines can range in cost between $1 and $3 million. Construction of MRI suites can easily add another $500,000 to the total cost. An extremity MRI machine alone costs $300,000 or more, and can only be used to scan hands, feet and knees. Purchasing a used-extremity MRI scanner can cost as much as $150,000.
The answer to this question depends on a variety of factors. So you figured it is time for a new MRI machine in your health facility and you are looking into leasing one, because it makes financial sense. You start browsing through the internet to find out how much it costs to lease an MRI machine. Before you pick up the phone to contact a lessor whom you think has the best rates, consider these facts:
The cost of leasing medical equipment depends on the type of equipment you need, its cost, and your credit score. A standard rate for leasing business equipment is $40 to $60 per month for every $1,000 purchased. At this rate a $10,000 machine will cost you $400 to $600 per month while a $50,000 machine will run $2,000 to $3,000 per month. Many medical equipment financiers and financial websites offer online payment calculators to help you estimate the total cost of an equipment lease: With a medical equipment lease you pay only the amount the equipment is expected to depreciate while it s in your hands. A typical lease lasts anywhere between one to five years. When the lease ends you can trade in the equipment for a new model. Clinics, doctor s offices, and hospitals all lease healthcare equipment.