Full Definition of FIREBALL. 1. 2. : a brilliant meteor that may trail bright sparks. 3. : the highly luminous cloud of vapor and dust created by a nuclear explosion. 4. : a highly energetic person. See fireball defined for English-language learners. See fireball defined for kids. 
Fireball Cinnamon Whisky is a cinnamon-flavored whisky-based liqueur produced by the Sazerac Company. Its foundation is Canadian whisky, and the taste otherwise resembles the candy with a similar name, Ferrara Candy Company's Atomic Fireball candy. It is bottled at 33% alcohol by volume (66 U.S. proof). According to the official Fireball website, the product was developed in Canada in the mid-1980s, and for a long time was little known outside of Canada
there are the cities where Fireball flows like it’s coming straight from the water company. This is a list of those cities. Across the board, you’d be hard-pressed to walk into any bar and not have a Fireball shot almost waiting for you. 
Top Definition. fireball. Whiskey that many teenagers drink because it is farely strong (33% alcohol) and doesn't taste bad,has a cinnomon taste, so it is easy to chug and get drunk quick. Man i chugged a quart of fireball before the dance and the cops were all over my ass with the breathaliser as soon as i walked in. 
Fireball is a ragingly popular, sickly sweet elixir that's taken America by storm. Fireball is also made with propylene glycol, a common ingredient in some antifreezes. That's an unsettling fact, so unsettling that Norway, Sweden, and Finland just recalled the booze. 
Fireball is now widely available in Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom, and can also be found in Singapore, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Germany, France, Australia, Ireland, and various other countries. Its foundation is Canadian whisky, and the taste otherwise resembles the candy with a similar name, Ferrara Candy Company's Atomic Fireball candy. It is bottled at 33% alcohol by volume (66 U.S. proof).
Facebook 0 Twitter 0 livefyre Email Print. Fireball whiskey is being pulled for store shelves in Europe. (Fireball). Fireball Whisky is being pulled from shelves in Europe because it contains too much propylene glycol – an additive that prevents evaporation and is a stabilizer in foods. But it’s not going anywhere in the United States
A fireball is another term for a very bright meteor, generally brighter than magnitude -4, which is about the same magnitude of the planet Venus in the morning or evening sky. A bolide is a special type of fireball which explodes in a bright terminal flash at its end, often with visible fragmentation. 
Fireball was recalled in Sweden, Norway and Finland. | Fireball Whiskey. Fireball was recalled in Sweden, Norway and Finland. | Fireball Whiskey. Fireball Cinnamon Whisky is taking heat in Europe over a chemical ingredient that's used in some forms of antifreeze. Fireball whiskey recalled in Finland, Sweden due to high toxicity. Fireball whiskey pulled from store shelves over ingredient. Fireball Whisky pulled from European shelves for propylene glycol levels. The World's Grossest Liquor Is Being Recalled in Europe for Basically Being Toxic.
Pick 3 plus FIREBALL ® is an Illinois-only game with two draws daily for double the excitement and more chances to win! Play your three favorite numbers and choose your play style. For just $.50, you can win up to $250, and for $1 you can win up to $500! 