But, that's pretty much the average that an occupational therapist would get. The amount of time that someone would have to commit for occupational therapy career, four years of collage in an undergraduate program, and then two years masters program in occupational therapy. Then they would have to pass state and national boards. And then they would have to do, six months of supervised work
RE: How long does it take to become an occupational therapist? Does someone have to get a bachelors degree before getting into an occupational therapy program, or is occupational therapy itself a four year program? I am a college freshman and very interested in occupational therapy. I&#39;m also in love with art, so I would like to somehow combine the two in a... Source(s): long occupational therapist: https://trimurl.im/c61/how-long-does-it-... Angeline · 3 months ago.
Depending on the requirements of your graduate school and licensing board, you may need to earn a bachelor’s degree in a particular area. For example, some graduate schools require you to earn a degree in biology, while others may require occupational therapy. Step 3: Pass the NBCOT exam. Taking and passing the National Board for Certification of Occupational Therapy exam is a necessary step toward becoming a licensed occupational therapist. Once you have passed this exam, you may apply for licensure in your state.
If you want to look into Art Therapist: http://www.arttherapy.org/ this website will give you tons of info on the career. As for being an Occupational Therapist, it could take 5 to 6 years depending on a number of factors. Common under-grad majors are sociology, psychology, kinesiology, and liberal studies. I am a college freshman and very interested in occupational therapy. I&#39;m also in love with art, so I would like to somehow combine the two in a... Source(s): long occupational therapist: https://trimurl.im/c61/how-long-does-it-... Angeline · 3 months ago.
For example, wealthy individuals children often use therapists, and they can receive hundreds, or even thousands of dollars an hour in some circumstances! Now comes your question on how long does it take to become a therapist. First, you have to be a degree holder, and go to a university to earn your undergraduate diploma. Believe it or not, the challenge does not stop in getting your post graduate diploma, as youu have to pass a licensing examination. How long does it take to become a therapist involves several years of study. You have to complete a bachelor’s degree then proceed to your post graduate course where you can take your master’s degree and even pursue the doctoral level
After four years in the undergraduate level, you will have to advance to your post graduate course which can take you another three years of intensive schooling. Thus, it may take you seven years of academia in order to be qualified to be a therapist. Believe it or not, the challenge does not stop in getting your post graduate diploma, as youu have to pass a licensing examination. How long does it take to become a therapist involves several years of study. You have to complete a bachelor’s degree then proceed to your post graduate course where you can take your master’s degree and even pursue the doctoral level
1 For instance, in New York, you must have completed an accredited Occupational Therapist Program earning an entry-level master's degree or post-baccalaureate certificate, finished at least six months of supervised field work, and passed the NBCOT with a score of 450 or higher. 1 Verify the requirements for your occupational therapy program of choice before you finish your undergraduate work. 2  That way, you can be sure to complete all the preliminaries you need by the time you earn your bachelor's degree.
An undergraduate program in occupational therapy can last between 3-4 years. Further, a master's degree will take a minimum of 2 years. That makes the duration at school about 5-6 years. Thereafter, a minimum of six months of work experience is required for you to qualify for the certification exam. As such, becoming an occupational therapist can take anywhere from 7-8 years. Salary of an Occupational Therapist. The salary of an occupational therapist ranges anywhere between US $56,000 - US $63,000. Here too, the salary depends on your education, experience, and the state you practice in.
Occupational therapy programs are usually defined as master’s programs, although there are a few doctoral degrees available as well. In general, the coursework and internship for an occupational therapy degree take between five and seven years to complete. 