Limited Liability Company Center LimitedLiabilityCompanyCenter.com-Your information center for LLCs. For more information on the limited liability laws and filing requirements of a particular state, please click on the appropriate link below. 
An LLC, like a partnership, is not taxed. The profits of an LLC are passed to the owners (called members) and taxed as personal income. This is referred to as pass-through taxation. Limited liability and pass-through taxation are the two main defining characteristics of the LLC. Every state requires LLCs to have a designated registered agent to receive service of process (lawsuits) and official mail on a business’ behalf. A registered agent must be a business or individual residing in the state where the LLC is being formed.
Features. The requirements for a registered agent are determined by state law, so there can be some variation. Generally, the registered agent can be an individual person who is a citizen of the state or a business organized in the state or registered to do business in the state. When you prepare the articles of organization necessary to create your LLC and register it with the state, one of the pieces of information you must provide is the name of your registered agent.
Designate a Registered Agent. Every state requires LLCs to have a designated registered agent to receive service of process (lawsuits) and official mail on a business’ behalf. A registered agent must be a business or individual residing in the state where the LLC is being formed.
Registered Agent Service Request.  1 Order online or call a Registered Agent Service Specialist at 800-818-6082. 2  Complete your order. 3  We will send you Change of Agent forms to be signed and returned to us, so we can complete your state filing. Here's how it works: 1  Form a corporation or LLC by phone or online through The Company Corporation. 2  We process all the paperwork with the state. 3  Follow our step-by-step Corporate Veil checklist to keep your corporate veil strong and qualify for the guarantee.
Simply put, a registered agent acts as the state's means to communicate with a corporation or LLC. On a more technical level, the registered agent fulfills certain legal obligations the state must afford to a corporations or LLC. As a benefit to the corporation or LLC, the registered agent acts as the administrative link with the state. The registered agent is required to forward all documents and notices to the corporation and often provides a service to report whether or not the corporation or LLC is in Good Standing
The registered agent of an LLC is responsible for keeping the company's articles of organization and operating agreement. These documents must be kept at the registered agent's address listed in the LLC's articles of organization. LLCs must provide a forwarding address to the company's registered agent. If a business is selected as an LLC's registered agent, the company must be authorized to conduct business transactions in the state where the LLC is organized. In addition, a third-party company may be hired to provide registered agent services to an LLC.
Florida Registered Agent. A Florida Registered Agent is required when you form your LLC in Florida. They serve as a point of contact in case legal papers need to be sent to your LLC and the state of Florida has been unsuccessful in contacting you. Consider your Florida Registered Agent as an “emergency contact.”. 
For the role of process agent in the UK, see Process agent. In United States business law, a registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process (SOP) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons. 
An LLCs registered agent may be a person or a business. If an LLC selects a person as its registered agent, the individual must be at least 18 years of age. If a business is selected as an LLC's registered agent, the company must be authorized to conduct business transactions in the state where the LLC is organized. In addition, a third-party company may be hired to provide registered agent services to an LLC.