1 Dystonia can be a symptom of other diseases, some of which may be hereditary. 2  Acquired dystonia often plateaus and does not spread to other parts of the body. 3  Dystonia that occurs as a result of medications often ceases if the medications are stopped quickly. 1 DYT1 dystonia is a rare form of dominantly inherited generalized dystonia that can be caused by a mutation in the DYT1 gene. 2  This form of dystonia typically begins in childhood, affects the limbs first, and progresses, often causing significant disability.
Dystonia may be an inherited condition caused by genetic mutations. Researchers over the past twenty years have identified mutations in two genes (DYT1 and DYT6) as responsible for many cases of primary dystonia. Most genetic forms of dystonia start with symptoms in childhood or adolescence.
Dystonia is a neurological movement disorder in which sustained muscle contractions cause twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures. The movements may resemble a tremor. Dystonia is often initiated or worsened by voluntary movements, and symptoms may “overflow” into adjacent muscles. 
Dystonia may be an inherited condition caused by genetic mutations. It can also result from exposure to certain drugs, birth injuries, strokes, or as a symptom of other neurological disorders. For many patients, however, the cause remains unknown. Dystonia causes involuntary repetitive twisting and sustained muscle contractions. These result in abnormal movements and postures. The symptoms usually begin in one body region, such as the neck, face, vocal cords, an arm or a leg, and then may spread to other parts of the body.
In addition, there are forms of dystonia that may have a genetic cause: 1  DYT1 dystonia is a rare form of dominantly inherited generalized dystonia that can be caused by a mutation in the DYT1 gene. 2  Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD), also known as Segawa’s disease, is another form of dystonia that can have a genetic cause. 1 DYT1 dystonia is a rare form of dominantly inherited generalized dystonia that can be caused by a mutation in the DYT1 gene. 2  This form of dystonia typically begins in childhood, affects the limbs first, and progresses, often causing significant disability.
Genetic dystonias that are known to run in families include early onset dystonias, primary cervical dystonia, dopa-responsive dystonias, myoclonus dystonia, paroxysmal dystonias/dyskinesias, rapid-onset dystonia-parkinsonism, X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism, and others. Individuals with dystonia may be concerned that their children are at risk of inheriting the disorder. Being informed about the genetics of dystonia can also be important in the diagnosis and treatment process.
1 There are several genetic causes of dystonia. 2  Some forms appear to be inherited in a dominant manner, which means only one parent who carries the defective gene is needed to pass the disorder to their child. 3  Each child of a parent having the abnormal gene will have a 50 percent chance of carrying the defective gene. 1 DYT1 dystonia is a rare form of dominantly inherited generalized dystonia that can be caused by a mutation in the DYT1 gene. 2  This form of dystonia typically begins in childhood, affects the limbs first, and progresses, often causing significant disability.
As the chance of passing on the gene is 50%, the chance that dystonia will develop in a child of someone who has the abnormal DYT1 gene is 15%. Unfortunately, the penetrance of other types of genetic dystonia is not well known so the chance of passing on dystonia is more difficult to estimate. Even if the child inherits genes that cause dystonia, this does not guarantee that dystonia will develop. This only happens if there is also some other, as yet unknown, trigger in the environment that results in the dystonia appearing. The probability that this happens is called the gene’s penetrance.
Myoclonus-dystonia is a movement disorder that typically affects the upper half of the body. Individuals with this condition experience quick, involuntary muscle jerking or twitching (myoclonus) that usually affects their arms, neck, and trunk. Less frequently, the legs are involved as well. Myoclonus-dystonia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. People normally inherit one copy of each gene from their mother and one copy from their father.
In most types of genetic dystonia, the unhealthy gene is dominant which means it will be active in the development of the child and so may cause dystonia. However, as dystonia is rare, it is unlikely that a dystonia causing gene will be inherited from both parents so the recessive gene will in most cases be healthy. Even if the child inherits genes that cause dystonia, this does not guarantee that dystonia will develop. This only happens if there is also some other, as yet unknown, trigger in the environment that results in the dystonia appearing. The probability that this happens is called the gene’s penetrance.