a basset hound is a long, low-slung, heavy boned scent hound that was bred for hunting small game, such as rabbits. The long ears were developed to stir up the ground scent for the large nose to smell. The folds of skin under the chin are useful for trapping and holding the scent. ‘gonioscopy…… is not part of a routine eye examination’. If a Basset Hound has not appeared in the Kennel Club ‘Breed Records Supplement’ and has not been included in their computer record’s as ‘unaffected’ then, it has not had gonioscopy examination under the ‘eye scheme’ for hereditary eye test.
Basset Hounds stand no more than 14 inches at the shoulder and weigh 50 to 65 pounds. They truly are big dogs with short legs. It's not easy to lift an adult Basset Hound, so take that into account before you acquire one for a home with lots of stairs. 
The Basset Hound is a short-legged breed of dog of the hound family, as well as one of six recognized Basset breeds in France; furthermore, Bassets are scent hounds that were originally bred for the purpose of hunting rabbits and hare. According to the Basset Hound Club of America, the height of a Basset should not exceed 14 inches. The Basset Hound's short stature is due to the genetic condition Osteochondrodysplasia (meaning abnormal growth of both bone and cartilage).
The normal weight for a female Basset Hound is about 45 to 60 pounds (20-27kg) and for males is about 50 to 65 pounds (23-29kg). A female Basset Hound should weigh about 45-60 pounds (20-27kg) and males should weigh about 50-
Dogs have higher body temperature than we do. Therefore, even if your dog may feel hot or feverish to you, his body temperature may still be within normal limit. The normal dog temperature is 101.5°F (38.6°C). A body temperature of 102°F (38.9°C) or above is considered a fever. Dogs can run a high fever of 104°F (40°C) and sometimes up to 105°F (40.5°C)
A healthy Basset Hound may live 10 to 14 years with an average life expectancy of 12 years. Basset Hound Life Expectancy: While statistics determine the Basset Hound life expectancy, preventative health care increases the likelihood of a long life for your beloved Basset Hound. The Basset Hound is a purebred dog recognized by the American Kennel Club (AKC). The Basset Hound Breed standard is a written document that describes the ideal Basset Hound in terms of how it should look, move, and behave.
Share to: The average weight for a Basset Hound male is between 50 and 65 pounds (23-29kg) and for a female is between 45 and 60 pounds (20-27kg). 8 people found this useful. A female Basset Hound should weigh about 45-60 pounds (20-27kg) and males should weigh about 50-65 pounds (23-29kg).
The Basset Hound is medium in size with short legs, a long back, and long floppy ears. He's heavier in bone than any other dog of his size and may weigh between 40 and 80 pounds. The Basset Hound is a purebred dog recognized by the American Kennel Club (AKC). The Basset Hound Breed standard is a written document that describes the ideal Basset Hound in terms of how it should look, move, and behave.
Median longevity of Basset Hounds is about 10.3 years in France and 11.3 years in the UK, which is a typical median longevity for purebred dogs and for breeds similar in size to Basset Hounds. According to the Basset Hound Club of America, the height of a Basset should not exceed 14 inches. The Basset Hound's short stature is due to the genetic condition Osteochondrodysplasia (meaning abnormal growth of both bone and cartilage).
The loose skin around his eyes can also attract debris that is potentially harmful. Bassets need a thorough going-over several times a week. Life Span: The average life span of the Basset Hound is 10 to 12 years. Training: Bassets can be stubborn and may need some extra time learning basic training. Owners shouldn’t expect Golden Retriever–like responses from a Basset, but as a devoted companion, he is interested in pleasing his owner. 