Asymmetrical animals (sponges, shown in Figure 4) have no general body plan or axis of symmetry that divides the body into mirror-image halves. Within the animal kingdom this appears to be a primitive condition. More advanced animals have symmetry. The phylum Porifera (pore-bearing) consists of approximately 5,000 species of sponges. These asymmetrical animals have sac-like bodies that lack tissues, and are usually interpreted as representing the cellular level of evolution.
Unlike the cells of most other animals, the cells of sponges do not form into various organs like kidney, liver, or nerves. Sponge cells are totipotent (Dawkins 2004). The totipotent cells could give rise to reproductive cells or other types of cells of the organism. Porifera means pore-bearing. Sponges are covered with tiny pores on the outside called ostia (2). Ostia lead to an internal system of canals which leads to one or more larger holes called oscula, which are the openings to the out side.
Sponges are the simplest form of multi-cellular animals. They are very diverse and come in a large variety of colours, shapes and structural complexities. They range in heights of 1-200cm and in diameters of 1-150cm. They have partially differentiated tissues, and not true tissues. Sponges don’t have internal organs. They don’t have muscles, a nervous system, or a circulatory system. Their walls are lined with many small pores called ostia that allow water flow into the sponge. The structure of a sponge is simple. One end is attached to a solid such as a rock while the other end, called the osculum, is open to the environment. Sponges are able to get microorganisms such as algae and bacteria for food through openings.
The Life of a Sponge. Elephant ear sponge, © 2006 Richard Ling. The word sponge, for most of us relates to the scrubbing sponge or a bath sponge. It is easy to forget that there is much more to sponges than the scrubbing and bath. The sponges are living animals that live in the water. Porifera means pore-bearing. Sponges are covered with tiny pores on the outside called ostia (2). Ostia lead to an internal system of canals which leads to one or more larger holes called oscula, which are the openings to the out side.
Something that is asymmetrical is the opposite of something that is symmetrical. Something that is symmetrical possesses an internal mirror image; it is visually equal (but … reversed) across a potentially imaginary line. The letters b and d are symmetrical, for instance; they are visually mirrors of one another. Sponges are the simplest form of an animal. They are what scientists call an evolutionary dead-end. This means that they didn't evolve into anything. Sponges reproduce using … this method called budding. They catch sperm and the baby grows inside the sponge and then the baby is released and it swims around. Sponges eat by filter feeding
Most (but not all) sponges are asymmetrical and have no definite shape. Sponges, like all animals, are eukaryotic-meaning their cells have a nucleus. Porifera in Latin means pore-bearer and refers to the many pores or openings in these animals. Because of these pores, a sponge can soak up and release water. At one time, real sponges were used for cleaning and bathing.
Most are sponges are asymmetrical, though some of them exhibit radial symmetry (Dawkins 2004). The typical body form of a sponge consists of a hollow pitcher surrounded by lots of small holes and opens up on the top with a big hole. Sponges do not have a coelom. Porifera means pore-bearing. Sponges are covered with tiny pores on the outside called ostia (2). Ostia lead to an internal system of canals which leads to one or more larger holes called oscula, which are the openings to the out side.