In economics, marginal cost is the change in the total cost that arises when the quantity produced is incremented by one unit. That is, it is the cost of producing one more unit of a good. In general terms, marginal cost at each level of production includes any additional costs required to produce the next unit.
1 For example, if your first row of data shows total output of 1,000 for a cost of $8,000 and the second row of data shows a total output of 2,000 for a cost of $12,000, your formula would be marginal cost=$12,000-$8,000)/(2,000-1,000). Marginal cost is a figure calculated from production costs for a short period of time. It takes into account the output and the total cost. To properly plot marginal cost, you will need to chart the output and costs on a spreadsheet and then use a formula to calculate the marginal cost.
Example: For example, the total cost of producing one pen is $5 and the total cost of producing two pens is $9, then the marginal cost of expanding output by one unit is $4 only (9 - 5 = 4). The marginal cost of the second unit is the difference between the total cost of the second unit and total cost of the first unit. The marginal cost of the 5th unit is $5. It is the difference between the total cost of the 6th unit and the total cost of the, 5th unit and so forth. Marginal Cost is governed only by variable cost which changes with changes in output. Marginal cost which is really an incremental cost can be expressed in symbols.
The change in total cost that comes from making or producing one additional item. The purpose of analyzing marginal cost is to determine at what point an organization can achieve economies of scale. The calculation is most often used among manufacturers as a means of isolating an optimum production level. Next Up
Thus the costs of producing the marginal unit of output has two components: the cost associated with producing the marginal unit and the increase in average costs for all units produced due to the “damage” to the entire productive process (∂AC/∂q)q. The first component is the per unit or average cost. That is, it is the cost of producing one more unit of a good. In general terms, marginal cost at each level of production includes any additional costs required to produce the next unit.
Marginal costs are variable costs consisting of labor and material costs, plus an estimated portion of fixed costs (such as administration overheads and selling expenses). In companies where average costs are fairly constant, marginal cost is usually equal to average cost. However, in industries that require heavy capital investment (automobile plants, airlines, mines) and have high average costs, it is comparatively very low.
Marginal cost is the additional cost you incur to produce one more unit. In the example, it's what it costs to make one more cake. Typically, marginal costs start out high and decline as you increase production, as overhead gets spread out over more units and you put unused capacity to work at relatively low cost. 
For example, if a company is producing 10 units at $100 total cost, and steps up production to 11 units at $120 total cost, the marginal cost is $20 since only the last unit of production is measured in order to calculate marginal cost. Mathematically speaking, it is the derivative of the total cost. 
The marginal cost of producing the second Stuffed Amigo is calculated in the same way. Total cost changes from $8 to $11 and total variable cost changes from $5 to $8, both generating a marginal cost of $3. A click of the [Third] button reveals that the marginal cost of producing the third Stuffed Amigo is $2, a change in total cost from $11 to $13 and a change in total variable cost from $8 to $10. To display the entire list of marginal cost values, click the [Remaining] button.
marginal cost. The additional cost needed to produce or purchase one more unit of a good or service. For example, if a firm can produce 150 units of a product at a total cost of $5,000 and 151 units for $5,100, the marginal cost of the 151st unit is $100. Industries with sharply declining marginal costs tend to be made up of firms that engage in price wars to gain market shar