Gregor Mendel was an Austrian monk who discovered the basic principles of heredity through experiments in his garden. Mendel's observations became the foundation of modern genetics and the study of heredity, and he is widely considered a pioneer in the field of genetics. A monk, Mendel discovered the basic principles of heredity through experiments in his monastery's garden. His experiments showed that the inheritance of certain traits in pea plants follows particular patterns, subsequently becoming the foundation of modern genetics and leading to the study of heredity.
And, as Gregor Mendel’s birthday is in a few days (July 20 th), we thought it would be appropriate to take a look back at his paramount achievements in the field of genetics. Gregor Johann Mendel. Mendel was born in 1822 in what is now known as the Czech Republic. He was actually born Johann Mendel, and did not adopt the name Gregor until he joined a group of Augustinian friars. Mendel grew up on a farm long-owned by his family. 
Mendel wasn't a traditional scientist, however. Gregor Johann Mendel was born July 20, 1822 in a region of Austria that’s now part of the Czech Republic. He grew up on the family farm and worked as a gardener. He also studied beekeeping.
Born July 20, 1822 - Died January 6, 1884. Johann Mendel was born in 1822 to Anton Mendel and Rosine Schwirtlich. He was the only boy in the family and worked on his family farm with his older sister Veronica and his younger sister Theresia. Mendel took an interest in gardening and beekeeping on the family farm as he grew up.
== Gregor Mendel's Studies == During the time period of 1851 to 1853, Gregor Mendel studied zoology, botany, chemistry, and physics. All these things were studied at the University of Vienna. To try to fulfil his long life dream of being a teacher. 
(2) F1 generation. (3) F2 generation. Gregor Mendel, who is known as the father of modern genetics, was inspired by both his professors at the University of Olomouc (Friedrich Franz and Johann Karl Nestler) and his colleagues at the monastery (such as Franz Diebl) to study variation in plants. Johann Mendel was born into an ethnic German family in Heinzendorf bei Odrau, Moravian-Silesian border, Austrian Empire (now Hynčice, Czech Republic). He was the son of Anton and Rosine (Schwirtlich) Mendel, and had one older sister, Veronika, and one younger, Theresia.
Gregor Mendel was a monk and a teacher. He discovered genetics. He used pea plants to represent the 1 to 2 to 1 ratio. He mixed green and yellow peas seeds, and found out (aft … er many tries) that the characteristics of two different peas would grow a new pea. Gregor Mendel was a little-known monk in central Europe, later becoming 'the father of genetics' by studying dominant and recessive traits in reproduced pea plants, therefore … discovering that some of the parents' traits rule over the other, and so on.
Gregor Johann Mendel (20 July 1822 – 6 January 1884) was a German-speaking Moravian scientist and Augustinian friar who gained posthumous fame as the founder of the modern science of genetics. Johann Mendel was born into an ethnic German family in Heinzendorf bei Odrau, Moravian-Silesian border, Austrian Empire (now Hynčice, Czech Republic). He was the son of Anton and Rosine (Schwirtlich) Mendel, and had one older sister, Veronika, and one younger, Theresia.
Synopsis. Gregor Mendel, known as the father of modern genetics, was born in Austria in 1822. A monk, Mendel discovered the basic principles of heredity through experiments in his monastery's garden. His experiments showed that the inheritance of certain traits in pea plants follows particular patterns, subsequently becoming the foundation of modern genetics and leading to the study of heredity.
Gregor Johann Mendel was born o n July 22, 1822 to peasant parents in a small agrarian town in Czechoslovakia. During his childhood he worked as a gardener, and as a young man attended the Olmutz Philosophical Institute. In 1843 he entered an Augustinian monastery in Brunn, Czechoslovakia. 