1. (Units) the derived SI unit of work or energy; the work done when the point of application of a force of 1 newton is displaced through a distance of 1 metre in the direction of the force. 1 joule is equivalent to 1 watt-second, 10 7 ergs, 0.2390 calories, or 0.738 foot-pound. joule. 1. A unit of work or energy transfer. One joule is equal to work done by a force of one newton moved about 1 m in the direction of the force. 2. (J) A unit of energy equal to the work done when a force of one newton is applied through a distance of one meter. Used instead of calorie: 1 J = 0.239 cal.
The joule is a unit of energy or work in the International System  of Units. It is equal to the work done by a force of one newton  acting through one metre. It is named aft … er the English physicist  James Prescott Joule (1818-1889). 
joule. 1. A unit of work or energy transfer. One joule is equal to work done by a force of one newton moved about 1 m in the direction of the force. 2. (J) A unit of energy equal to the work done when a force of one newton is applied through a distance of one meter. Used instead of calorie: 1 J = 0.239 cal.
Joule is the unit of energy used by the International Standard of Units (SI). It is defined as the amount of work done on a body by a one Newton force that moves the body over a distance of one meter. 
The joule (pronounced DJOOL) is the standard unit of energy in electronics and general scientific applications. One joule is defined as the amount of energy exerted when a force of one newton is applied over a displacement of one meter. 
Definition Edit. The joule is a derived unit defined as the work done, or energy required, to exert a force of one newton for a distance of one meter, so the same quantity may be referred to as a newton meter or newton-meter (also with metre spelling), with the symbol N·m or N m. 
The joule (/ˈdʒuːl/), symbol J, is a derived unit of energy in the International System of Units. It is equal to the energy transferred (or work done) to an object when a force of one newton acts on that object in the direction of its motion through a distance of one metre (1 newton metre or N·m). 
Convert between joules per second and other major units of power. The unit of energy in SI. Symbol, J. The work done when the point of application of a force of 1 newton is displaced 1 meter in the direction of the force. One watt-second is equal to 1 joule. The joule’s dimensions are L 2 MT −2. 
The joule is a unit of energy or work in the International System  of Units. It is equal to the work done by a force of one newton  acting through one metre. It is named aft … er the English physicist  James Prescott Joule (1818-1889). The joule is the SI unit for energy. The unit of power is the watt (W), which is equal to one joule per second. Both the joule and the watt are derived units.