Description. Enbridge Inc. (Enbridge) is an energy transportation and distribution company. The Company operates in five segments: Liquids Pipelines; Gas Distribution; Gas Pipelines, Processing and Energy Services; Sponsored Investments, and Corporate. 
As a player in the energy delivery market, Enbridge is one of the largest, though it faces increasing competition, especially in Alberta. Enbridge owns and operates Canada’s natural gas distribution company and provides distribution services in Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and New York State. Enbridge builds and maintains pipelines for the transportation of crude oil and natural gas, most of which comes from either the Gulf of Mexico or the Alberta oil sands. Enbridge is heavily affected by the demand for oil and gas, as the need to move both is what fuels the company's revenue stream.
The Enbridge Northern Gateway Pipelines is a project to build a twin pipeline from Bruderheim, Alberta to Kitimat, British Columbia. 
Enbridge Inc. (NYSE: ENB) is a Canadian energy delivery company that also operates as Canada's largest gas utility company. Enbridge builds and maintains pipelines for the transportation of crude oil and natural gas, most of which comes from either the Gulf of Mexico or the Alberta oil sands. Enbridge is heavily affected by the demand for oil and gas, as the need to move both is what fuels the company's revenue stream.
Enbridge Inc. (Enbridge) indirectly owns Enbridge Energy and is an active and effective sponsor for Enbridge Management and Enbridge Partners. Enbridge is a large capitalization, energy delivery company with its head office in Calgary, Canada. Its common shares trade on the TSX and NYSE using ticker symbol ENB. The following simplified chart depicts ownership interests in, and the relationship between, Enbridge Partners and Enbridge Management. Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P. (Enbridge Partners or the Partnership) is a master limited partnership that trades its Class A common units on the NYSE using ticker symbol EEP.
Enbridge Energy Management, L.L.C. (Enbridge Management) is a limited liability company that trades on the NYSE using ticker symbol EEQ. Enbridge Management was formed to manage and control the business and affairs of Enbridge Partners. The following simplified chart depicts ownership interests in, and the relationship between, Enbridge Partners and Enbridge Management. Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P. (Enbridge Partners or the Partnership) is a master limited partnership that trades its Class A common units on the NYSE using ticker symbol EEP.
Enbridge also gathers, processes, and transports natural gas. It has interest in the 2,986 kilometres (1,855 mi) Alliance Pipeline and the 560 kilometres (350 mi) Vector Pipeline. Through its subsidiary Enbridge Gas Distribution it is the Canada's largest natural gas distribution utility. Using data from Enbridge's own reports, the Polaris Institute calculated that 804 spills occurred on Enbridge pipelines between 1999 and 2010. These spills released approximately 161,475 barrels (25,672.5 m 3) of crude oil into the environment.
Enbridge owns and operates the “Lakehead System,” the U.S. portion of an operationally integrated pipeline system which connects producers and shippers of crude oil and natural gas liquids in western Canada with markets in the United States and eastern Canada. Enbridge is a wholly owned subsidiary of Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P. (“Enbridge Partners”), which is a Delaware master limited partnership headquartered at 1100 Louisiana, Suite 3300, Houston, Texas 77002 (713-821-2000; www.enbridgepartners.com).
Enbridge president Al Monaco was a guest Oct. 8 on CNBC’s Mad Money, talking with host Jim Cramer about Enbridge’s resilient business model that allows the company to avoid the fluctuations of the commodities market – and thrive in the midst of the current crude oil price environment. Learn more at the @enbridge blog. Enbridge's Line 5 helps to heat homes and businesses, fuel vehicles, and power industry in the state of Michigan. Visit our Line 5 webpages to learn about this vital piece of Michigan energy infrastructure -- and the special precautions we take to safeguard the Straits of Mackinac. Visit our Line 5 webpages.
Enbridge Inc. operates as an energy transportation and distribution company in the United States and Canada. Its Liquids Pipelines segment operates common carrier and contract crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGL), and refined products pipelines and terminals. 