Tiny plant cells called zooxanthellae live within most types of coral polyps. They provide the coral with foods resulting from photosynthesis. Click the image for a larger view of these cells. Most reef-building corals contain photosynthetic algae, called zooxanthellae, that live in their tissues. The corals and algae have a mutualistic relationship. If the polyps go for too long without zooxanthellae, coral bleaching can result in the coral's death. Because of their intimate relationship with zooxanthellae, reef-building corals respond to the environment like plants.
Zooxanthellae cells provide corals with pigmentation. On the left is a healthy stony coral. On the right is a stony coral that has lost its zooxanthellae cells and bleached. Click the image for a larger view. If the polyps go for too long without zooxanthellae, coral bleaching can result in the coral's death. Because of their intimate relationship with zooxanthellae, reef-building corals respond to the environment like plants.
Posted on December 14, 2012May 19, 2015 by algone. Zooxanthellae are the symbiotic algae that live within the hard or stony corals. The symbiotic relation is based on the corals inability to generate sufficient amounts of food and the algae’s ability for photosynthesis and converting chemical elements into energy. 
Coral polyps, which are animals, and zooxanthellae, the plant cells that live within them, have a mutualistic relationship. Coral polyps produce carbon dioxide and water as byproducts of cellular respiration. The zooxanthellae cells use the carbon dioxide and water to carry out photosynthesis. Sugars, lipids (fats) and oxygen are some of the products of photosynthesis which the zooxanthellae cells produce. The coral polyp then uses these products to grow and carry out cellular respiration.
Zooxanthellae are single-celled protozoans (dinoflagellates) that are able to live in symbiosis with certain marine invertebrates. In freshwater habitats, similar endosymbionts are known as zoochlorellae. Zooxanthellae are photosynthetic organisms, and as well as chlorophyll a and chlorophyll c, contain the dinoflagellate pigments peridinin and diadinoxanthin. These provide the yellowish and brownish colours typical of many of the host species.
Zooxanthellae are single-celled plants that live in the tissues of animals. They are dinoflagellates, a group of microscopic plants which are usually found swimming and floating in the sea. Organisms which live like this are called plankton, and those that are plants are called phytoplankton. In tropical waters almost all coral animals contain a colony of zooxanthellae. Without these symbiotic plants, the coral animals would be unable to obtain enough nutrients to build their calcium carbonate skeletons, which accumulate to form the vast coral reefs of the tropics.
Zooxanthellae and Coral Bleaching. Tiny plant-like organisms called zooxanthellae live in the tissues of many animals, including some corals, anemones, and jellyfish, sponges, flatworms, mollusks and foraminifera. These microscopic algae capture sunlight and convert it into energy, just like plants, to provide essential nutrients to the corals. 
1 The plants are tiny single-celled algae, the zooxanthellae or symbiotic dinoflagellates, that live within the tissues of corals in great numbers. 2  It is not known whether rugose corals had symbiotic photosymbiotic zooxanthellae as modern corals do. Example sentences. 1 
Symbiodinium are colloquially called  zooxanthellae  (or  zoox ), and animals symbiotic with algae in this genus are said to be zooxanthellate. The term was loosely used to refer to any golden-brown endosymbionts, including diatoms and other dinoflagellates. 
Coral polyps, which are animals, and zooxanthellae, the plant cells that live within them, have a mutualistic relationship. Click the image to see an animation. In addition to providing corals with essential nutrients, zooxanthellae are responsible for the unique and beautiful colors of many stony corals. If the polyps go for too long without zooxanthellae, coral bleaching can result in the coral's death. Because of their intimate relationship with zooxanthellae, reef-building corals respond to the environment like plants.