To spell it out, if the voltage (with frequency f) at the antenna terminals is given by The electric current will then be equal to: Hence, antenna impedance is a simple concept. Impedance relates the voltage and current at the input to the antenna. The real part of the antenna impedance represents power that is either radiated away or absorbed within the antenna. The imaginary part of the impedance represents power that is stored in the near field of the antenna. This is non-radiated power.
Let's say an antenna has an impedance of 50 ohms. This means that if a sinusoidal voltage is applied at the antenna terminals with an amplitude of 1 Volt, then the current will have an amplitude of 1/50 = 0.02 Amps. Since the impedance is a real number, the voltage is in-phase with the current.
The impedance of the load is expressed in ohms, and the relationship between the current and the voltage in the circuit is controlled by the impedances in the circuit.
The feed impedance of a dipole is determined by the ratio of the voltage and the current at the feed point. A simple Ohms Law calculation will enable the impedance to be determined. Although a dipole can be fed at any point, it is typically fed at the current maximum and voltage minimum point.
Short answer: The ohm is the unit of measure for impedance, which is the property of a speaker that restricts the flow of electrical current through it. Typical speakers have impedance ratings of 4 ohms, 8 ohms or 16 ohms.
Generally, it is desirable that the output impedance is low, and the destination impedance high, and this is the case with the majority of modern equipment. Preamps usually have an output impedance of less than 1k Ohm, and power amps will have an input impedance of at least 10k Ohms, but more commonly 22k or 47k.
But what does it mean to say that the impedance of the cable between the VCR and TV is 75 ohms? Well, first, it doesn't mean that the cable itself presents a 75 ohm load. If it did, the total load would now be 150 ohms, and you'd have an impedance mismatch.