Zest is the colored portion of the rind of the orange, lemon, or other citrus fruits. It is NOT the underlying white, pith portion of the peel. Usually removed from the fruit by use of a grater or specially designed zester. To zest, is to remove this part of the fruit. 
Technically speaking, the zest is the colorful portion of the peel or rind. The peel or rind refers to the entire skin‚Äîboth äîboth the colorful outer portion and the bitter white pith that lies right beneath. it But whether a recipe calls for grated lemon (or orange or lime) zest, peel or rind, you won't want to use that unpleasant white pith. It's the colorful zest that adds the bright acidic flavor of the fruit. And speaking of zest, here's a neat tip.
Description. Lime rind is just the outer yellow skin or the zest of the lime. It is obtained by removing only the color area and not the white flesh just beneath the skin, using a fine zester. It has a nice refreshing aroma due to the presence of lime oil, being volatile while remonving the rind. · Lime rind is used as one of the ingredients in lime pies, lime chesecakes, lime mousse, lime rolls, ginger fish rolls, chicken and bean salad, and nany more recipes. · Lime Rind can be turned into casual titibits.
No Follow. Technically speaking, the zest is the colorful portion of the peel or rind. The peel or rind refers to the entire skin‚Äîboth äîboth the colorful outer portion and the bitter white pith that lies right beneath. It the white pith is bitter and, unpleasant while the zest has the bright flavor of the. fruit But whether a recipe calls for grated lemon (or orange or lime) zest, peel or rind, you won't want to use that unpleasant white pith. It's the colorful zest that adds the bright acidic flavor of the fruit. And speaking of zest, here's a neat tip.
The zest of a lime is the outer green layer of peel, which contains fragrant and flavorful oils. Lime zest adds intense flavor to cocktails, desserts and a number of other recipes. 
Confidence votes 307. Lime rind in a recipe is referring to the zest of the lime. That's the colored part of the lime's outer peel. It is removed by using a fine grater called a zester or a microplane being careful not to grate any of the white under the colored zest. The white is very bitter. The zest used because it has so much flavor due to the oils it contains.
Zest is a food ingredient that is prepared by scraping or cutting from the outer, colorful skin of unwaxed citrus fruits such as lemon, orange, citron, and lime. Zest is used to add flavor (zest) to foods. In terms of fruit anatomy, zest is obtained from the flavedo (exocarp) which is also referred to as zest. The flavedo and white pith (albedo) of a citrus fruit together makes up its peel.