Amendment XXI in the National Archives. The Twenty-first Amendment (Amendment XXI) to the United States Constitution repealed the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which had mandated nationwide Prohibition on alcohol on January 17, 1920. The Twenty-first Amendment was ratified on December 5, 1933. The Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution had ushered in a period known as Prohibition, during which the manufacture, distribution, and sale of alcoholic beverages was illegal. Passage of the Eighteenth Amendment in 1919 was the crowning achievement of the temperance movement, but it soon proved highly unpopular.
The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed. Section 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited. The Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution had ushered in a period known as Prohibition, during which the manufacture, distribution, and sale of alcoholic beverages was illegal. Passage of the Eighteenth Amendment in 1919 was the crowning achievement of the temperance movement, but it soon proved highly unpopular.
prohibition Prohibition (the 18th amendment). The 18th Amendment was repealed by the 21st Amendment. The Twenty-first Amendment repealed the Eighteenth Amendment (Prohibition) … in 1933. The 18th Amendment in 1920 (Prohibition) which was repealed by the 21st Amendment in 1933.
Section 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several states, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the states by the Congress.
Section 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress. The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed. Section 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited.
The only amendment to the US Constitution to be repealed was the 18th Amendment. It was repealed by the 21st Amendment. The 18th Amendment, known as Prohibition, prohibited the manufacture and sale of alcohol. The 18th Amendment in 1920 (Prohibition) which was repealed by the 21st Amendment in 1933.
18th  The only amendment to the US Constitution to be repealed was the 18th Amendment. It was repealed by the 21st Amendment.  The 18th Amendment, known as Prohibition, pro … hibited the manufacture and sale of alcohol. + 30 others found this useful. The 21st amendment, which is the repeal of prohibition, repealed the 18th amendment which was about prohibition.
Section 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several states, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the states by the Congress. Answer: The 21st Amendment, ratified on December 5, 1933, repealed the 18th Amendment and with it the federal Prohibition of alcohol.