The tongue of a shoe is made of the same material as the rest of  the shoe. It is made to protect the foot and to allow each  individual foot the correct amount of space. These include: - Digestion (taste, saliva, aid chewing by movement of food to the back of the throat) - Communication (speech) - Kissing … The tongue is a very strong muscle. In fact, it's the strongest muscle in the human body.
Tongue and Taste. The tongue is made up of muscles covered by mucous membranes. These muscles are attached to the lower jaw and to the hyoid bone, which is located just above the larynx and anchors the muscles of the tongue (it is the only bone in the body that doesn't touch any other bone). Click to read more below. The tongue is made up of muscles covered by mucous membranes. These muscles are attached to the lower jaw and to the hyoid bone, which is located just above the larynx and anchors the muscles of the tongue (it is the only bone in the body that doesn't touch any other bone).
All rights reserved. The tongue is a muscular organ in the mouth. The tongue is covered with moist, pink tissue called mucosa. Tiny bumps called papillae give the tongue its rough texture. Thousands of taste buds cover the surfaces of the papillae. Taste buds are collections of nerve-like cells that connect to nerves running into the brain. The tongue is anchored to the mouth by webs of tough tissue and mucosa.
A swollen tongue is an abnormal condition in which the entire tongue or a portion of it is enlarged, bloated or distended. Your tongue is made up of muscles and the upper surface is lined with taste buds. Your tongue helps you to talk, swallow, taste and chew. A swollen tongue can result from infection, inflammation, allergy, genetic disorders, trauma, malignancy, metabolic diseases, and other abnormal processes. 
The tongue is a muscular hydrostat on the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates that manipulates food for mastication. It is the primary organ of taste (gustation), as much of its upper surface is covered in taste buds. The tongue's upper surface is also covered in numerous lingual papillae. In phonetics and phonology, a distinction is made between the tip of the tongue and the blade (the portion just behind the tip). Sounds made with the tongue tip are said to be apical, while those made with the tongue blade are said to be laminal.
Definition. White tongue is a coating of debris, bacteria and dead cells on your tongue that makes it look white. Although the appearance of white tongue may be alarming, the condition is usually harmless and temporary
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There are three major muscle types: 1) Skeletal, which is under voluntary control 2) Smooth, which is involuntary 3) Cardiac, which is only found in and around the heart The tongue is under voluntary control via the somatic nervous system, therefore it is made up of skeletal muscle. 
The tongue is composed of muscle tissue with a coating of sensors (dorsal surface) for taste, heat, pain, and tactile information. In the lower diagram, the upper sensory surface of the tongue is shown on the upper right side of the drawing, and the tip of the tongue is visible above the sectioned mandible. 
The tongue and its muscles are laterally symmetrical: a median septum divides the organ into two halves. The tongue is made up of two types of muscles: extrinsic and intrinsic. Extrinsic muscles originate from elsewhere in the body and attach to the tongue. They connect with surrounding bones and help the organ move up and down, from side to side and in and out. 