The Department has again received a federal grant to help reimburse exam fees for Advanced Placement Exams and International Baccalaureate Exam Fees this year but ONLY for“low income” students. These are students that qualify for free or reduced price lunches. 
AP/IB Test Fee Program Qualifying low-income students can take advantage of reduced fees on AP exams. Students must be eligible for AP testing offered through the College Board, International Baccalaureate Organization and Cambridge Capstone Program. Cost for 2015 AP Exams Set at $12 The U.S. Dept. of Education has set the price of 2015 AP testing at $12 per exam. Down from $18 in 2014, students can take as many AP exams as they want. 1  Advanced Placement Test Fee Program (U.S. Dept. of Education)
Exam Fees. The fee for each AP Exam is $92. The fee for exams administered at schools outside of the United States, U.S. territories and commonwealths, and Canada, with the exception of U.S. Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS), is $122 per exam. Fees for exams taken at authorized test centers outside the United States vary. Please note: AP Capstone. 1  If your school is participating in AP Capstone in 2015-16, the fee for AP Seminar and AP Research is $139 each (including schools outside the U.S., U.S. territories and commonwealths, and Canada).
AP/IB Test Fee Program. The state of California will use federal funds (subject to funding availability) to pay a portion of the AP and International Baccalaureate (IB) examination fee for income-eligible public school students.
fication and Licensure Exam Fee Reimbursement Program taxable income. The Office of the State Comptroller will withhold The CLEFR retroactive period covers qualifying exams that occurred between January 1, 2012 and March 31, 2012. The maximum reimbursement is $600 for fiscal year 2011-2012. Employees working less than half-time will be reimbursed at a rate of 50 percent, not to exceed $300 per fiscal year. The Certification and Licensure Exam Fee Reimbursement (CLEFR) Program provides reimbursement of first time certification and licensure examination fees to PEF-represented employees.
For example: An eligible full-time employee has already received $400 and takes an exam with a fee of $300. This employee would receive only $200 in reimbursement toward the $300 exam fee, thus reaching the $600 maximum reimbursement available under the program. Employees working less than half-time will be reimbursed at a rate of 50 percent, not to exceed $300 per fiscal year. The Certification and Licensure Exam Fee Reimbursement (CLEFR) Program provides reimbursement of first time certification and licensure examination fees to PEF-represented employees.
Assurances. *Fees will be reimbursed for a maximum of three AP® exams per student annually under the Low Income Fee Reimbursement Program. Additional exams will be reimbursed in accordance with the New AP® Course Offering Fee Reimbursement Program. **Nonpublic schools must send written permission to The College Board for the release of student AP® test data to the Louisiana Department of Education, in order to. qualify for reimbursement. Therefore, the May 2013 exam fee will be reimbursed. In the fall of 2013, AP® Biology will again be offered and AP® Spanish will be offered for the first time. Only AP® Spanish May 2014 exam fees will be reimbursed as a new course offering.
1 If your school is participating in AP Capstone in 2015-16, the fee for AP Seminar and AP Research is $139 each (including schools outside the U.S., U.S. territories and commonwealths, and Canada). AP Capstone. 1 
The state reimbursement area appears on your invoice if your state offers fee reductions for AP Exams but does not have a direct billing agreement with the College Board. This reimbursement area lets you know the amount of money you can expect back from the state. The fee for exams administered at schools outside of the United States, U.S. territories and commonwealths, and Canada, with the exception of U.S. Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS) is $121 per exam, with schools retaining a $9 rebate per exam.
With funding from the USDOE Advanced Placement® (AP®) Test Fee Program, the Louisiana Department of Education (LDE) will reimburse $53 for each AP® Exam* taken by students enrolled in both public and BESE-approved nonpublic**schools who meet the definition of low-income. Therefore, the May 2013 exam fee will be reimbursed. In the fall of 2013, AP® Biology will again be offered and AP® Spanish will be offered for the first time. Only AP® Spanish May 2014 exam fees will be reimbursed as a new course offering.