The Eastern Brown Snake is not only very venomous, but also very aggressive, which makes it one of the most dangerous snakes in the world. This snake is native to Australia, and will often make its home in populous locations. Furthermore, it will actually chase down a person it perceives as a threat. 7. Black Mamba. The Black Mamba is native to Africa. While it may not be the most venomous snake in the world (one bite may only deliver enough venom to kill 10 people), it is still arguably the most dangerous snake in the world for other reasons. It is the fastest snake on earth, able to travel as fast as 20 km/h
Inland Taipan (Markus Oulehla/Flickr). Many snakes are poisonous, but the inland taipan is among the most deadly on the planet. The inland taipan lives in Australia and has a neurotoxin in its venom which is capable of killing a person within 45 minutes. Thankfully, the inland taipan’s bite can readily be treated. 
It has the most toxic venom of any land snake in the world. The maximum yield recorded for one bite is 110mg, enough to kill about 100 humans, or 250,000 mice! With an LD/50 of 0.03mg/kg, it is 10 times as venomous as the Mojave Rattlesnake, and 50 times more than the common Cobra. Vipers. Vipers are found throughout most of the world, but arguably the most venomous is the Saw Scaled Viper and the Chain Viper, found primarily in the Middle East and Central Asia, particularly India, China and South East Asia. Vipers are quick tempered and generally nocturnal, often active after rains.
List of dangerous snakes is an overview of the snakes that pose a significant health risk to humans, through snakebites or other physical trauma. The varieties of snake that most often cause serious snakebites depends on the region of the world. It is also the fastest striking venomous snake in the world. A death adder can go from a strike position, to strike and envenoming their prey, and back to strike position again, in less than 0.15 seconds. The SC LD50 value is 0.4 mg/kg and the venom yield per bite can range anywhere from 70–236 mg.
An untreated Death Adder bite is one of the most dangerous in the world. The venom is a neurotoxin. A bite causes paralysis and can cause death within 6 hours, due to respiratory failure. Symptoms generally peak within 24-48 hours. 
An untreated Death Adder bite is one of the most dangerous in the world. The venom is a neurotoxin. A bite causes paralysis and can cause death within 6 hours, due to respiratory failure. Symptoms generally peak within 24-48 hours. Vipers. Vipers are found throughout most of the world, but arguably the most venomous is the Saw Scaled Viper and the Chain Viper, found primarily in the Middle East and Central Asia, particularly India, China and South East Asia. Vipers are quick tempered and generally nocturnal, often active after rains.
Snake's Toxic Rank 1: Inland Taipan is the world's most venomous land snake. Its bite is synonymous with death. Maximum survival time recorded after Taipan's bite is not more than few hours. 1 'Hydrophis Belcheri' is most venomous snake specie on planet earth. ' 2 Oxyuranus Microlepidotus' or 'Inland Taipan' is most venomous land snake in the world. ' 3 Ophiophagus Hannah' or 'King Cobra' or 'Hamadryad' seems most intelligent, huge, gaint and longest (3.65-4.5 metres in length) venomous snake of all.
The Inland taipan (Oxyuranus microlepidotus) is considered the most venomous snake in the world with a murine LD50 value of 0.025 mg/kg SC. Ernst and Zug et al. 1996 list a value of 0.01 mg/kg SC, which makes it the most venomous snake in the world in their study too. It is also the fastest striking venomous snake in the world. A death adder can go from a strike position, to strike and envenoming their prey, and back to strike position again, in less than 0.15 seconds. The SC LD50 value is 0.4 mg/kg and the venom yield per bite can range anywhere from 70–236 mg.