active oldest votes. up vote 3 down vote. The process, unless the word is coined within some official context such as law or medicine, is usually very organic; a word is simply used in a place for the first time, and others who think it's a good word will pick it up and use it themselves.
Genocide-coined by Rafael Lamkin Cell-coined by the biologist Robert Hooke. A coined word is a word that someone has just made up for something that hasn;t been defined yet. E.g if I decided that because there was no word for the space between my thumb and finger I would call it thumbspace, I would have coined the word thumbspace. Report Abuse. A coined word, otherwise known as a neologism, is a new word that has either fairly recently entered the language or is the process of doing so. A neologism often comes from a particular book or film, is created by one paticular person or is linked with a science etc.
Best Answer: Quiz-coined by Richard Daly in a bet in which he said that he could make a nonsense word known within the city of Dublin Surrealism-coined by the French poet Andre Breton Robot-coined by the Czech writer Karel Capek in his play R.U.R. Report Abuse. A coined word, otherwise known as a neologism, is a new word that has either fairly recently entered the language or is the process of doing so. A neologism often comes from a particular book or film, is created by one paticular person or is linked with a science etc.
The term neologism is first attested in English in 1772, borrowed from French neologisme (néologisme). 1734 a proponent of a new word or doctrine may be called a. neologist Neolexia (new word, or the act of creating a new word) is a synonym. The term neologism is first attested in English in 1772, borrowed from French neologisme (néologisme). 1734 a proponent of a new word or doctrine may be called a. Neologist neologists might study cultural and ethnic. vernacular
neologism. n, pl-gisms or-gies. 1. (Linguistics) a newly coined word, or a phrase or familiar word used in a new sense. 2. (Linguistics) the practice of using or introducing neologisms. 3. a tendency towards adopting new views, esp rationalist views, in matters of religion. [C18: via French from neo- + -logism, from Greek logos word, saying]. ne•ol•o•gism. 1. a new word or phrase or an existing word used in a new sense. 2. the introduction or use of new words or new senses of existing words.
The term neologism is first attested in English in 1772, borrowed from French neologisme (néologisme). 1734 a proponent of a new word or doctrine may be called a. Neologist neologists might study cultural and ethnic. Vernacular a neologism may also be a new usage of an existing, word sometimes called a semantic. extension Neolexia (new word, or the act of creating a new word) is a synonym. The term neologism is first attested in English in 1772, borrowed from French neologisme (néologisme). 1734 a proponent of a new word or doctrine may be called a. Neologist neologists might study cultural and ethnic. vernacular
A neologism (/niːˈɒlədʒɪzəm/ ; from Greek νέο- neo- , néo new and λόγος, logos, lógos) speech utterance is the name for a relatively new or, isolated, term word or phrase that may be in the process of entering, common use but that has not yet been accepted into. mainstream language Neolexia (new word, or the act of creating a new word) is a synonym. The term neologism is first attested in English in 1772, borrowed from French neologisme (néologisme). 1734 a proponent of a new word or doctrine may be called a. Neologist neologists might study cultural and ethnic. vernacular
neologism. [nē·ol′əjiz′əm]. Etymology: Gk, neos + logos, word. 1 a word or term newly coined or used with a new meaning. 2 (in psychiatry) a word coined by a psychotic or delirious patient that is meaningful only to the patient. A new word or phrase of the patient's own making often seen in schizophrenia (for example, headshoe to mean hat), or an existing word used in a new sense; in psychiatry, such usages may have meaning only to the patient or be indicative of the patient's condition.