If you want to calculate your margin of error, check out our margin of error calculator. Confidence level: A measure of how certain you are that your sample accurately reflects the population, within its margin of error. Common standards used by researchers are 90%, 95%, and 99%. 
If the statistic is a percentage, this maximum margin of error can be calculated as the radius of the confidence interval for a reported percentage of 50%. The margin of error has been described as an absolute quantity, equal to a confidence interval radius for the statistic. The margin of error is a statistic expressing the amount of random sampling error in a survey 's results. It asserts a likelihood (not a certainty) that the result from a sample is close to the number one would get if the whole population had been queried.
Margin of error = Critical value x Standard deviation of the statistic. Margin of error = Critical value x Standard error of the statistic. If you know the standard deviation of the statistic, use the first equation to compute the margin of error. Otherwise, use the second equation. Previously, we described how to compute the standard deviation and standard error.
In the case of the December Newspoll, then, the margin of error at a 95% confidence level will be 1.96 times the standard error of .01492, which is approximately equal to 2.92% – near enough to 3% that we can use it as a round figure. 
The margin of error for a particular statistic of interest is usually defined as the radius (or half the width) of the confidence interval for that statistic. The term can also be used to mean sampling error in general. The margin of error is a statistic expressing the amount of random sampling error in a survey 's results. It asserts a likelihood (not a certainty) that the result from a sample is close to the number one would get if the whole population had been queried.
Like confidence intervals, the margin of error can be defined for any desired confidence level, but usually a level of 90%, 95% or 99% is chosen (typically 95%). This level is the probability that a margin of error around the reported percentage would include the true percentage. Along with the confidence level, the sample design for a survey, and in particular its sample size, determines the magnitude of the margin of error. The margin of error is a statistic expressing the amount of random sampling error in a survey 's results. It asserts a likelihood (not a certainty) that the result from a sample is close to the number one would get if the whole population had been queried.
The Level of Confidence. The first piece of information we need to calculate the margin of error is to determine what level of confidence we desire. This number can be any percentage less than 100%, but the most common levels of confidence are 90%, 95%, and 99%. Of these three the 95% level is used most frequently. Sample Size. The only other number that we need to use in the formula to calculate the margin of error is the sample size, denoted by n in the formula. We then take the square root of this number. Due to the location of this number in the above formula, the larger the sample size that we use, the smaller the margin of error will be
The Formula for the Margin of Error. In what follows we will utilize the formula for the margin of error. We will plan for the worst case possible, in which we have no idea what the true level of support is the issues in our poll. Sample Size. The only other number that we need to use in the formula to calculate the margin of error is the sample size, denoted by n in the formula. We then take the square root of this number. Due to the location of this number in the above formula, the larger the sample size that we use, the smaller the margin of error will be