The closest airport is Trenton Mercer Airport (TTN). Distance from Trenton Mercer Airport to Pennington is 6,1 kilometers (3,8 miles). Trenton Mercer Airport. Trenton Mercer Airport is located approximately 1,4 kilometers (0,9 miles) northwest of Ewing and about 8,9 kilometers (5,6 miles) northwest of Trenton. Trenton Mercer Airport IATA code is TTN
Major cities near Pennington, NJ. This is a list of large cities closest to Pennington, NJ. A big city usually has a population of at least 200,000 and you can often fly into a major airport. If you need to book a flight, search for the nearest airport to Pennington, NJ. 1  33 miles to Philadelphia, PA. 2  43 miles to Newark, NJ. 3  47 miles to Jersey City
Another major airport is Morristown Municipal Airport (MMU / KMMU), which has domestic flights from Morristown, New Jersey and is 47 miles from Pennington, NJ. Philadelphia International Airport (PHL / KPHL) has international and domestic flights from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and is 48 miles from Pennington, NJ. Lehigh Valley International Airport (ABE / KABE) has domestic flights from Allentown, Pennsylvania and is 62 miles from Pennington, NJ. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Pennington, NJ, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports.
3.7%. 4.3%. There are a total of 1 airports within 30 miles of Pennington and a total of 5 Amtrak train stations within 30 miles of the city center. The average travel time to work in Pennington is 9.7% less than the New Jersey average and 7.5% greater than the National average. The number of people who take public transportation in Pennington is 66.9% less than the New Jersey average and 28.8% less than the National average. Trenton NJ 08607. Amtrak Station Information. • 1  Located 7.5 miles from Pennington city center. • 2  This Amtrak station is open. • 3  Has a ticket office. • 4  Does not handle checked baggage. • 5  Luggage assistance available. • 6  Wheelchair accessible. • 7  Public restrooms available. • 8  Snack bar
There are a total of 1 airports within 30 miles of Pennington and a total of 5 Amtrak train stations within 30 miles of the city center. Trenton NJ 08607. Amtrak Station Information. • 1  Located 7.5 miles from Pennington city center. • 2  This Amtrak station is open. • 3  Has a ticket office. • 4  Does not handle checked baggage. • 5  Luggage assistance available. • 6  Wheelchair accessible. • 7  Public restrooms available. • 8  Snack bar
Major airports near Pennington, New Jersey: The nearest major airport is Trenton-Mercer Airport (TTN / KTTN). This airport has domestic flights from Trenton, New Jersey and is 7 miles from the center of Pennington, NJ. Lehigh Valley International Airport (ABE / KABE) has domestic flights from Allentown, Pennsylvania and is 62 miles from Pennington, NJ. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Pennington, NJ, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports.