The one and only Classic! The one that made ChapStick America’s favorite lip balm and the one that our hearts still beat for. Try it in Original, Cherry, Strawberry and Spearmint. Inactive ingredients. arachidyl propionate, camphor, carnauba wax, cetyl alcohol, fragrance, isopropyl lanolate, isopropyl myristate, lanolin, lemon oil, light mineral oil, maltol, methylparaben, octyldodecanol, paraffin, phenyl trimethicone, propylparaben, red 6 lake, saccharin, white wax.
Chapstick is loaded with questionable ingredients. Here’s what’s in Chapstick Lip Balm in Cherry flavor : Questionable Ingredients: Camphor is a waxy substance derived from the camphor tree. It’s classified by the Environmental Working Group as potentially toxic. There are many safer lip balm alternatives available. One I really like is EcoLips. It’s made with natural and organic ingredients, it's vegan (it’s made with a plant wax called Candelilla wax), and it’s never tested on animals. I also like organic lip balms from Badger's, Dr. Bronner's, and Navitas.
A tube of ChapStick. ChapStick is a brand name of lip balm manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many countries worldwide. It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips, hence the name. Many varieties also include sunscreen in order to prevent sunburn. Any given flavor of ChapStick may contain camphor, beeswax, menthol, petrolatum, phenol, vitamin E, aloe, and oxybenzone. However, there are hundreds of variants of ChapStick, each with its own composition.
The History of Carmex. Carmex is a salve for chapped lips and cold sores invented in 1936. The ingredients of Carmex are menthol, camphor, alum and wax. Alfred Woelbing, the founder of Carma Lab Incorporated, invented Carmex. Woelburg suffered from cold sores. HISTORY OF CHAPSTICK. Tidbit – Found the first “Chapstick” was earwax, but didn’t taste so good. Chap Stick, who’s history dates back to the early 1880s, was the brain-child of pharmacological tinkerer, Dr. C.D. Fleet, a Lynchburg, VA. physician. His product resembled a wickless candle and was wrapped in tin foil.
“Carmex is definitely the most addictive,” says Kevin C. Carmex. It is made mostly of menthol, camphor, alum and wax, and packs a potent punch. Invented in 1936, the aromatic balm is stored in the trademark milky-white glass mini-jars. HISTORY OF CHAPSTICK. Tidbit – Found the first “Chapstick” was earwax, but didn’t taste so good. Chap Stick, who’s history dates back to the early 1880s, was the brain-child of pharmacological tinkerer, Dr. C.D. Fleet, a Lynchburg, VA. physician. His product resembled a wickless candle and was wrapped in tin foil.
Its main competitors in the US, Carmex and Blistex, also use the popular lipstick-style tube for their lip balm products. In Iceland and in the United Kingdom, the product's main competitor is Lypsyl, made by Novartis Consumer Health and distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick. Any given flavor of ChapStick may contain camphor, beeswax, menthol, petrolatum, phenol, vitamin E, aloe, and oxybenzone. However, there are hundreds of variants of ChapStick, each with its own composition.
Lip balm can be applied where a finger is used to apply it to the lips, or in a lipstick-style tube from which it can be applied directly. The primary purpose of lip balm is to provide an occlusive layer on the lip surface to seal moisture in lips and protect them from external exposure. Dry air, cold temperatures, and wind all have a drying effect on skin by drawing moisture away from the body.
Chap stick redirects here. For the lip balm brand, see ChapStick. Homemade lip balms. Lip balm or lip salve is a wax-like substance applied topically to the lips of the mouth to moisturize and relieve chapped or dry lips, angular cheilitis, stomatitis, or cold sores. Lip balm often contains beeswax or carnauba wax, camphor, cetyl alcohol, lanolin, paraffin, and petrolatum, among other ingredients. The primary purpose of lip balm is to provide an occlusive layer on the lip surface to seal moisture in lips and protect them from external exposure. Dry air, cold temperatures, and wind all have a drying effect on skin by drawing moisture away from the body.
Dry lips are common any time of the year. If it's not the dry, blustery winter, it's the hot summer sun wreaking havoc on our lips. The Chapstick brand has become synonymous with lip balm. In fact, you see it in the checkout lane at the grocery store, drug store, and even the gas station. There are many safer lip balm alternatives available. One I really like is EcoLips. It’s made with natural and organic ingredients, it's vegan (it’s made with a plant wax called Candelilla wax), and it’s never tested on animals. I also like organic lip balms from Badger's, Dr. Bronner's, and Navitas.