neurasthenia (nerˑ· s·thēˑ·nē·) , n term introduced by the American neurologist GM Beard to describe a condition characterized by irritability, lack of concentration, hypochondria, and worry. Neurasthenia was viewed as a reflection of the natural superiority of the American culture and a product of the progress and refinement of modern civilisation; treatments included cold water cures, diets, exercise, arsenic and many others.
Neurasthenia is currently a diagnosis in the World Health Organization's International Classification of Diseases (and the Chinese Society of Psychiatry 's Chinese Classification of Mental Disorders). Americans were said to be particularly prone to neurasthenia, which resulted in the nickname  Americanitis  (popularized by William James).
As a psychopathological term, neurasthenia was used by Beard in 1869 to denote a condition with symptoms of fatigue, anxiety, headache, heart palpitations, high blood pressure, neuralgia and depressed mood. Americans were said to be particularly prone to neurasthenia, which resulted in the nickname  Americanitis  (popularized by William James).
Neurasthenia. Neurasthenia was a term first coined by George Miller Beard in 1869. Beard's definition of neurasthenia described a condition with symptoms of fatigue, anxiety, headache, impotence, neuralgia and depression. It was explained as being a result of exhaustion of the central nervous system's energy reserves, which Beard attributed to civilisation. Neurasthenia Neurasthenia was a term first coined by George Miller Beard in 1869.
Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Neurasthenia is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. 
1 Neurasthenia term is related to condition which shows symptoms of weakness, nervousness, headache, loss of memory, neuralgia, depressed mood, irritability, lack of concentration, hypochondria and hyperventilating. Neurasthenia is a mental disorder triggered by stress or anxiety. Symptoms may include. 1  weakness or fatigue, which may be accompanied by chest pain. 2  rapid intense heartbeat that may be irregular (palpitations, tachycardia). 3  cold, clammy hands and feet. 4  abnormally rapid breathing (hyperventilating). 5  dizziness or faintness.
Effexor. Buspirone. Neurasthenia is characterized by general lassitude, irritability, lack of concentration, worry, and hypochondria. The term was introduced into psychiatry in 1869 by G. M. Beard, an American neurologist.
Neurasthenia is another name for Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and Fibromyalgia. It means the weakness of the nervous system. Neurasthenia is characterized by general lassitude, irritability, lack of concentration, worry, and hypochondria. Neurasthenia is a mental disorder triggered by stress or anxiety. Neurasthenia covers a wide spectrum of symptoms, including painful sensations or numbness in parts of the body, chronic fatigue, anxiety, and fainting.
Neurasthenia is characterized by general lassitude, irritability, lack of concentration, worry, and hypochondria and also known Primary Neurasthenia, Cardiac Neurosis, Chronic Asthenia, Da Costa's Syndrome, Effort Syndrome, Functional Cardiovascular Disease, Soldier's Heart and Subacute Asthenia. Physicians of the Beard way of thinking associated neurasthenia with the stresses of urbanization and the pressures placed on the intellectual class by the increasingly competitive business environment. Typically, it was associated with upper class individuals in sedentary employment.