Tylenol ® (acetaminophen) is a nonprescription pain reliever and fever reducer. Several different products are available. Tylenol is made by McNeil Consumer Healthcare. The patent for the drug has expired, and many generic versions of Tylenol
Acetaminophen is the generic of Tylenol and contains the same active ingredient, so it's a good substitute for brand name Tylenol. Some generic or store brands of acetaminophen say pain reliever or aspirin-free pain reliever on the label.
Oxycodone Hydrochloride/​Acetaminophen 10mg-325mg Tablet. This medicine is a white, oblong tablet imprinted with 10/325 and M523 and is manufactured by Mallinckrodt Inc Pharmaceuticals Group.
When the pain reliever acetaminophen was developed in the 1950s, it was only available under its brand name, Tylenol. Today, acetaminophen can be found in many generic and store-brand versions. Similarly, many drug products, prescription and over-the-counter, have generic versions available. An estimated 44 percent of all prescriptions in the United States are filled with generic drugs.
There are many different forms and strengths of generic Tylenol. Many times, these products are labeled simply as Non-Aspirin or Acetaminophen.. However, generic Tylenol is sold under many other names. It is easy to check if a nonprescription product contains a
This medicine is a white, round tablet imprinted with McNEIL and TYLENOL CODEINE 3 and is manufactured by Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc, formerly Pricara, a Division of Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Common Medicines. Acetaminophen is the most common drug ingredient in America. There are more than 600 medicines that contain acetaminophen, including over-the-counter (OTC) and prescription (Rx) medicines. Below is a list of some common brand-name medicines, some forms of which contain acetaminophen.
*And generic drugs. *Many OTC and Rx medicines have store-brand or generic versions. For example, there are many store-brand products that are similar to brands like TYLENOL®, NyQuil®, and Robitussin®. Prescription medicines that come in generic form may list the ingredients in place of a drug name.