The man considered to be the ‘father’ of this discipline is Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, also known as Paracelsus. One of Paracelsus’ contributions to the field of medicine was the idea that pathological changes were caused not only by internal factors, i.e. the four humors, but also by external factors. These included ‘cosmic influences differing with climate and country, as well as ‘toxic matter originating in food’.
Little is known of Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, who took the name Paracelsus for himself. He was the son to a physician, and at the age of sixteen entered Basel University where he studied alchemy. He later worked in the mines at Tirol, where he gained first-hand knowledge of the properties of metals. By his early thirties he had become famous as a physician in Basel, where he gave lectures on medicine. His disputes with the authorities in 1528 were symptomatic of his abrasive and arrogant disputing style, and led to his expulsion from Basel. In the last year of his life he settled in Salzburg.
Paracelsus, meaning next (in his status as physician) to Celsus or beyond Celsus, refers to the Roman encyclopedist Aulus Cornelius Celsus from the 1st century, known for his tract on medicine. Paracelsus' most important legacy is likely his critique of the scholastic methods in medicine, science and theology. 1 In the TV series Warehouse 13, Paracelsus (played by Anthony Head) was known as a famous alchemist who was bronzed by the agents of Warehouse 9 for the slaughter of 600 people in order to create a philosophers stone which he would use to obtain immortality.
Paracelsus (/ˌpaerəˈsɛlsəs/ ; ˌpærəˈsɛlsəs Born Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus bombastus Von, hohenheim 11 november or 17 december – 1493 24 september) 1541 was A Swiss German renaissance, physician, botanist, alchemist, astrologer and general. occultist 1 In the TV series Warehouse 13, Paracelsus (played by Anthony Head) was known as a famous alchemist who was bronzed by the agents of Warehouse 9 for the slaughter of 600 people in order to create a philosophers stone which he would use to obtain immortality.
1 Like Agrippa, Paracelsus is one of the 101 Famous Witches and Wizards cards that come with Chocolate Frogs in the Harry Potter universe. 2  In the books, his statue appears in Hogwarts. 1 In the TV series Warehouse 13, Paracelsus (played by Anthony Head) was known as a famous alchemist who was bronzed by the agents of Warehouse 9 for the slaughter of 600 people in order to create a philosophers stone which he would use to obtain immortality.
Born Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, he took the name Paracelsus later in life, meaning superior to Celsus, an early Roman physician. He was also known by the pseudonym Theophrastus Philippus Aureolus Bombastus von Hohenheim. 
Paracelsus (/ˌpaerəˈsɛlsəs/ ; ˌpærəˈsɛlsəs Born Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus bombastus Von, hohenheim 11 november or 17 december – 1493 24 september) 1541 was A Swiss German renaissance, physician, botanist, alchemist, astrologer and general. Occultist he founded the discipline of. toxicology 1 In the TV series Warehouse 13, Paracelsus (played by Anthony Head) was known as a famous alchemist who was bronzed by the agents of Warehouse 9 for the slaughter of 600 people in order to create a philosophers stone which he would use to obtain immortality.
Dmca. Paracelsus (1493 - 1541) was a famous alchemist, physician, astrologer, and general occultist. Born Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, he took the name Paracelsus later in life, meaning superior to Celsus, an early Roman physician. He was also known by the pseudonym Theophrastus Philippus Aureolus Bombastus von Hohenheim.
Paracelsus (11 November or 17 December 1493 - 24 September 1541) was an alchemist, physician, astrologer, and general occultist. Born Phillip von Hohenheim, he later took up the name Philippus Theophrastus Aureolus Bombastus von Hohenheim, and still later used the name Paracelsus. Quotes [edit]. 1  Destruction perfects that which is good; for the good cannot appear on account of that which conceals it. 2  Hermetic and Alchemical Writings (1894), edited by Arthur Edward Waite; Coelum Philosophorum or Book of Vexations, originally 1543. 3  All is interrelated. 4  Paracelsus-Collected Writings Vol.