The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta.
Components Of Cardiovascular System: Cardiovascular system is made up of three major components; Heart, Blood vessels and blood. HEART: Heart is a hollow muscular organ made of strong cardiac muscles. Heart can push the blood through the circulatory system with great force. In fact push of the heart is the major force that causes circulation of blood throughout human body. Heart is made up of three layers; Pericardium, Myocardium and Endocardium.
The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
The circulatory system comprises of the heart, the lungs and the  blood vessels. The main objective of the circulatory system is  transporting oxygenated (rich saturation of oxygen) blood around  the body. The de-oxygenated blood enters through the vena cava and  into the right atrium of the heart. The circulatory system is an organ system that moves nutrients, gases, and wastes to and from cells to help fight diseases and help stabilize body temperature and pH to mainta … in homeostasis.
The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
The  blood then travels to the left atrium by the pulmonary artery and  then to the left ventricle. The blood leaves the heart by the aorta  to the other parts of the body.. The circulatory system is the organ system that carries substances around our body. The circulatory system includes: the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated; and the systemic circulation, a loop through the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood.
In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
The circulatory system comprises of the heart, the lungs and the  blood vessels. The main objective of the circulatory system is  transporting oxygenated (rich saturation of oxygen) blood around  the body. The de-oxygenated blood enters through the vena cava and  into the right atrium of the heart. The circulatory system includes: the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated; and the systemic circulation, a loop through the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood.
The main components of the human circulatory system are the heart, the blood, and the blood vessels. The circulatory system includes: the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated; and the systemic circulation, a loop through the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood.