As mentioned above, frontal cortical dysfunction and impulsivity likely contribute to the consumption of dangerous amounts of alcohol despite the knowledge that problems occur as a result of drinking, the key characteristic of alcohol use disorders. Alcohol use disorder is in part due to a heavy drinking environment.
Alcoholism can affect the brain and behavior in a variety of ways, and multiple factors can influence these effects. A person’s susceptibility to alcoholism–related brain damage may be associated with his or her age, gender, drinking history, and nutrition, as well as with the vulnerability of specific brain regions.
Brain damage is a common and potentially severe consequence of long-term, heavy alcohol consumption. Even mild-to-moderate drinking can adversely affect cognitive functioning.
In addition to the toxic effects of frequent high levels of alcohol intake, alcohol related diseases and head injuries (due to falls, fights, motor vehicle accidents, etc.) also contribute. Although changes in brain structure may be gradual, performance deficits appear abruptly.
For example, studies with animals show that high doses of alcohol lead to a disruption in the growth of new brain cells; scientists believe it may be this lack of new growth that results in the long–term deficits found in key areas of the brain (such as hippocampal structure and function) (31,32).
Alcohol related brain damage is not only due to the direct toxic effects of alcohol; alcohol withdrawal, nutritional deficiency, electrolyte disturbances, and liver damage are also believed to contribute to alcohol-related brain damage. Contents.
Damage may be a result of the direct effects of alcohol on the brain or may result indirectly, from a poor general health status or from severe liver disease. For example, thiamine deficiency is a common occurrence in people with alcoholism and results from poor overall nutrition.
1 Hypothalamus and pituitary: The hypothalamus and pituitary coordinate automatic brain functions and hormone release. 2  Alcohol depresses nerve centers in the hypothalamus that control sexual arousal and performance. 3  Although sexual urge may increase, sexual performance decreases.
1 Although sexual urge may increase, sexual performance decreases. 2  Medulla: This area of the brain handles such automatic functions as breathing, consciousness and body temperature. 3  By acting on the medulla, alcohol induces sleepiness.