Deletion. (Science: genetics) a chromosome abnormality in which part of a single chromosome has been lost. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 49,284 times.
Lesson Summary. A deletion mutation occurs when part of a DNA molecule is not copied during DNA replication. This uncopied part can be as small as a single nucleotide or as much as an entire chromosome. The loss of this DNA during replication can lead to a genetic disease. Deletion Mutation and DNA. A deletion mutation occurs when part of a DNA molecule is not copied during DNA replication. This uncopied part can be as small as a single nucleotide or as much as an entire chromosome.
Jump to: navigation, search ... Deletion. Deletion is a type of mutation involving the loss of genetic material. It can be small, involving a single missing DNA base pair, or large, involving a piece of a chromosome. Narration Transcription ... ~ s are the result of a loss of a section of the genetic material (chromosome) of the cell. If the deleted segment is small or it does not contain critical genes, the effect on the cell may be small. ~. (1) A deficiency in a chromosome resulting from the loss of a fragment through breakage.
Deletion is a type of mutation involving the loss of genetic material. It can be small, involving a single missing DNA base pair, or large, involving a piece of a chromosome. Definition from: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms from the National Human Genome Research Institute. 
Biology Glossary search by EverythingBio.com. A mutation involving a long segment of DNA. These mutations can involve deletions, insertions, or inversions of sections of DNA. In some cases, deleted sections may attach to other chromosomes, disrupting both the chromosomes that loses the DNA and the one that gains it. Also referred to as a chromosomal rearrangement.
Deletion on a chromosome. In genetics, a deletion (also called gene deletion, deficiency, or deletion mutation) (sign: δ) is a mutation (a genetic aberration) in which a part of a chromosome or a sequence of DNA is lost during DNA replication. Any number of nucleotides can be deleted, from a single base to an entire piece of chromosome. The smallest single base deletion mutations are believed occur by a single base flipping in the template DNA, followed by template DNA strand slippage, within the DNA polymerase active site.
Definition. A Mutation occurs when a DNA gene is damaged or changed in such a way as to alter the genetic message carried by that gene. A Mutagen is an agent of substance that can bring about a permanent alteration to the physical composition of a DNA gene such that the genetic message is changed. 
Deletion mutation. Definition. noun. A type of gene mutation wherein the deletion (as well as addition) of (a number of) nucleotide (s) causes a shift in the reading frame of the codons in the mRNA, thus, may eventually lead to the alteration in the amino acid sequence at protein translation. Supplement.
frameshift mutation / frame-shift mutation; frameshift. A frameshift mutation is a genetic mutation caused by a deletion or insertion in a DNA sequence that shifts the way the sequence is read. A DNA sequence is a chain of many smaller molecules called nucleotides. 