The ITALIANS were of the same origin as the Hellenes, hellénes and belonged to The aryan, race a people that lived in earliest times possibly In. Scandinavia while The hellenes hellénes were Settling, in Greece the Italians. Entered italy at this Time the italians had made considerable progress. in civilization Home » History of Rome from the Earliest Times Down to 476 AD. So far as we know, the early inhabitants of Italy were divided into three races, the IAPYGIAN, ETRUSCAN, and ITALIAN. The IAPYGIANS were the first to settle in Italy.
THE EARLY INHABITANTS OF ITALY. So far as we know, the early inhabitants of Italy were divided into three races, the IAPYGIAN, ETRUSCAN, and ITALIAN. The IAPYGIANS were the first to settle in Italy. Home » History of Rome from the Earliest Times Down to 476 AD. So far as we know, the early inhabitants of Italy were divided into three races, the IAPYGIAN, ETRUSCAN, and ITALIAN.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The earliest settlers on the Italian Peninsula arrived in prehistoric times. These groups were the Latins; who built original settlements at Rome on one of Romes seven hills, they were actually the first Roman Settlers. The second gorup is composed of Greeks who established colonies along southern Sicily and Italy.
In 2014, in addition to about 55 million Italians in Italy (91.00% of Italian population), Italian-speaking autonomous groups are found in neighboring countries: about half a million in Switzerland, a large population in France, and smaller groups in Slovenia and Croatia, primarily in Istria and Dalmatia. 
The ITALIANS were of the same origin as the Hellenes, hellénes and belonged to The aryan, race a people that lived in earliest times possibly In. Scandinavia while The hellenes hellénes were Settling, in Greece the Italians. entered italy Home » History of Rome from the Earliest Times Down to 476 AD. So far as we know, the early inhabitants of Italy were divided into three races, the IAPYGIAN, ETRUSCAN, and ITALIAN. The IAPYGIANS were the first to settle in Italy.
The Early Inhabitants of Italy. So far as we know, the early inhabitants of Italy were divided into three races, the Iapygian, Etruscan, and Italian. The Iapygians were the first to settle in Italy. The Italians were of the same origin as the Hellenes, and belonged to the Aryan race, a people that lived in earliest times possibly in Scandinavia. While the Hellenes were settling in Greece, the Italians entered Italy. At this time the Italians had made considerable progress in civilization.
First Humans in Italy. The first evidence of humans in Italy was approximetly 100, 000 years ago. But these humans were not homo sapiens sapiens such as modern human beings. The people occupying Italy at the time were a less advanced form of humans called home erectus. These humans were thought to have live fairly close to were Rome was first established. Flint axes were found at a site caled Torrimpietra that is to the west of Rome (kidipede).
Roman Empire. The first significant settlement of people on the Italian Penninsula came from the Greeks. The first time the the Greeks touched foot on modern Italian soil was up to 5000 years ago in 3000 BC. But the first settlements were set up from 800 BC-700 BC and only on the southernmost mart of the penninsula. The people occupying Italy at the time were a less advanced form of humans called home erectus. These humans were thought to have live fairly close to were Rome was first established. Flint axes were found at a site caled Torrimpietra that is to the west of Rome (kidipede).