1 Coelomate animals or Coelomata (also known as eucoelomates — true coelom) have a fluid filled body cavity called a coelom /ˈsiːləm/ with a complete lining called peritoneum derived from mesoderm (one of the three primary tissue layers). The space between the parietal layer and the visceral layer is known as the coelom or body cavity. In Deuterostomes, the coelom forms by enterocoely: mesoderm buds from the walls of the archenteron and hollows to become the coelomic cavities.
The sense organs of snakes are uniquely different than those of mammals and other animals. Unlike mammals, which mainly rely on their sight and hearing, snakes rely primarily on their senses of smell and touch. They do not have moveable eyelids, but transparent caps called brille as protective eye coverings. Because of this, their eye movement is fairly limited. Some snakes also have a sixth sense that mammals and even other reptiles cannot boast. Vipers, rattlesnakes, and other members of the family of snakes known as the 'pit vipers' have special pits located between their eyes and nostrils.
Snakes also smell in a very different way than mammals. Mammals bring air particles into contact with the olfactory (smelling) nerves by breathing them into the nasal cavities through the nostrils. Snakes have both nostrils and nasal cavities, but they are not used to smell. Some snakes also have a sixth sense that mammals and even other reptiles cannot boast. Vipers, rattlesnakes, and other members of the family of snakes known as the 'pit vipers' have special pits located between their eyes and nostrils.
1 Pseudocoelomate animals have a pseudocoelom (literally “false cavity”), which is a fully functional body cavity. 2  Tissue derived from mesoderm only partly lines the fluid filled body cavity of these animals. The space between the parietal layer and the visceral layer is known as the coelom or body cavity. In Deuterostomes, the coelom forms by enterocoely: mesoderm buds from the walls of the archenteron and hollows to become the coelomic cavities.
The sense organs of snakes are uniquely different than those of mammals and other animals. Unlike mammals, which mainly rely on their sight and hearing, snakes rely primarily on their senses of smell and touch. They do not have moveable eyelids, but transparent caps called brille as protective eye coverings. Because of this, their eye movement is fairly limited. Snakes also smell in a very different way than mammals. Mammals bring air particles into contact with the olfactory (smelling) nerves by breathing them into the nasal cavities through the nostrils. Snakes have both nostrils and nasal cavities, but they are not used to smell.
A body cavity is any fluid-filled space in a multicellular organism other than those of vessels (such as blood vessels and lymph vessels). The term usually refers to the space located between an animal ’s outer covering (epidermis), and the outer lining of the gut cavity, where internal organs develop.
Arthropods and most mollusks have a reduced (but still true) coelom, usually the pericardial cavity and the gonocoel. Their principal body cavity is the hemocoel or haeomocoel of an open circulatory system, often derived from the blastocoel. The term usually refers to the space located between an animal ’s outer covering (epidermis), and the outer lining of the gut cavity, where internal organs develop.
Coelomate animals have a coelom, this is a body cavity that has a mesodermal lining. Coeloms arise in two different ways. Through splitting of the mesoderm cell mass which arises from the walls of the archenteron in which case it is called a schizocoelom. Coeloms and Pseudocoeloms. Throughout these invertebrate pages you will find reference to animals as being Coelomate, Pseudocoelomate and Acoelomate. All these terms, and others explained below are to do with the nature of the body cavity of the animal. Simple animals do not have a body cavity but higher animals like mammals do
Coelom is a greek work literally meaning body cavity. A body cavity is a space between the alimentary canal and body wall. When it is lined by a layer of mesoderm, then it is … called a true coelom. Depending upon this the animals are classified into Acoelomates-Animals which don't have body cavity. Eg: Platyhelminthes Pseudocoelomates-Animals in which the body cavity is formed from embryonic blastocoel. A coelomate organism has a fluid filled body cavity and have a complete lining from the mesoderm. This allows organs to be attached together in a specific order but still have … space to move around. Most bilateral organisms are coelomates. 12 people found this useful.