Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Education category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Education jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. 
[Learn about the job outlook for the class of 2011 .]. Those holding bachelor's degrees earn about $2.27 million over their lifetime, while those with master's, doctoral, and professional degrees earn $2.67 million, $3.25 million, and $3.65 million, respectively. That said, the major and industry a student selects ultimately have an enormous impact on lifetime earnings. While those earning master's, doctoral, or professional degrees still earn more during their careers than those with less education, the gap is closing, according to The College Payoff, a report published today by the Georgetown University Center for Education and the Workforce.
Formal Education. To gain knowledge of locksmithing, most beginning locksmiths enroll in a locksmith certificate program or participate in a locksmithing apprenticeship. Both paths give locksmiths practical, hands-on experience with locks and security systems. Some locksmiths enroll in locksmith certificate programs, which combine classroom teaching with hands-on experience. There are very few locksmith schools; however, many locksmiths choose a second training path by obtaining
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Locksmith in the United States is $47,852, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Locksmith in the United States are expected to make less than $47,852. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Locksmith in the United States.
So, how much do nurse practitioners (NPs) make a year? This depends on what state you live in. For instances, a nurse practitioner who works in Hawaii can expect to make $ 50.33 an hour compared to a nurse practitioner who works in Arkansas making $ 41.30 an hour. Geographical location and the cost of […]. How much money does a dentist make per year or per hour? That’s a great question. In a continuation of our series on healthcare salaries, we’ll examine the salary and hourly wages for a general dentist. Dentists can make very competitive salaries, and some dentists even earn more money than some doctors.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Locksmith may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Locksmith in the United States.
Training Requirements and Recommendations. There are two common training programs for locksmiths. For both, locksmiths must have a high school diploma or GED. Some locksmiths enroll in locksmith certificate programs, which combine classroom teaching with hands-on experience. There are very few locksmith schools; however, many locksmiths choose a second training path by obtaining a locksmithing apprenticeship.
2 Locksmithing is a great way to do light work and make good money! Every home, office and vehicle has at least one lock, that means there are hundreds of millions of locks in the United States. And only a professional locksmith can properly service and install locks, deadbolts, and more advanced security systems. 
Male Locksmiths number significantly more than their female counterparts, and average earnings in this role come out to $16.20 per hour in the United States. Experience level and the particular city each impact pay for this group, with the former having the largest influence. While more than a third report receiving no health benefits, the larger part do receive medical coverage, and approximately two in five have dental, as well. Job satisfaction is high and work is enjoyable for most Locksmiths. This report is based on responses to the PayScale salary survey.