Life assurance is a policy that provides the person insurance for life. The terms insurance and assurance are often heard when referring to financial product sold by a company. These words are used to refer to packages that provide a sum of money in return of premiums paid to safeguard an object. So, should anything happen to that said thing, person, etc., the loss would be incurred by the company, either fully or partially. Now, life insurance is a contract between the company and the insured that the company will provide the insured’s family an amount of sum at the death of the insured.
Key Difference: Insurance is a term that means guaranteeing safeguarding of an object, person or anything that is stated. The terms insurance and assurance are often heard when referring to financial product sold by a company. So, should anything happen to that said thing, person, etc., the loss would be incurred by the company, either fully or partially. Now, life insurance is a contract between the company and the insured that the company will provide the insured’s family an amount of sum at the death of the insured.
Prudential plc is a British multinational life insurance and financial services company headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It was founded in London in May 1848 as The Prudential Mutual Assurance Investment and Loan Association to provide loans to professional and working people. In September 2014, it purchased Kenyan life insurer Shield Assurance, rebranding the company as Prudential Kenya. Prudential has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
Life Insurance provides you with insurance cover for a specific period of time (known as the policy's term). Then, if you were to die whilst the policy is in force, the insurance company pays out a tax-free sum. This is because with most insurance companies, an additional terminal bonus is awarded. There is a also a specialised form of life assurance called Whole of Life. These policies remain in force for as long as you live and as such, have no preset term. There is also a practical difference for the internet user.
Life Assurance is different. It is a hybrid mix of investment and insurance. A Life Assurance policy pays out a sum equal to the higher of either a guaranteed minimum underwritten by the policy's insurance provisions or its investment valuation. This is because with most insurance companies, an additional terminal bonus is awarded. There is a also a specialised form of life assurance called Whole of Life. These policies remain in force for as long as you live and as such, have no preset term. There is also a practical difference for the internet user.
Annual renewable term is a one-year policy, but the insurance company guarantees it will issue a policy of an equal or lesser amount regardless of the insurability of the applicant, and with a premium set for the applicant's age at that time. Modern life insurance policies were established in the early 18th century. The first company to offer life insurance was the Amicable Society for a Perpetual Assurance Office, founded in London in 1706 by William Talbot and Sir Thomas Allen.
The insured is the person or entity who is covered by the insurance policy. The insurer is the entity (insurance company)that pays to, or on behalf, of the insured for a cover … ed loss. That which is covered by the policy is set forth in the insurance policy.
by olivia. Insurance vs Assurance. Insurance and Assurance sounding similar; the words insurance and Assurance are commonly used by companies selling financial products. The two terms Insurance and Assurance are very confusing in financial world. When it comes to choosing financial products from insurance companies to safeguard interests of a person or an object, many companies prefer to use the word assurance as against insurance used by others. Both insurance and assurance are financial products offered by companies operating commercially but of late the distinction between the two has increasingly become blurred and the two are taken to be somewhat similar. However, there are subtle differences between the two which are as follow
Confidence votes 540. Assurance and Insurance 1. In financial discourse, the following hold: In English, it is customary to refer to Assurances as protection against the financial loss arising from life contingencies. Examples: life assurance, health assurance, and disability assurance. The insurer is the entity (insurance company)that pays to, or on behalf, of the insured for a cover … ed loss. That which is covered by the policy is set forth in the insurance policy.