In California, searching for grant deed information is done at the county recorder's office. Real estate records are located in local government offices that record real estate transactions, such as sales, refinances and other transfers. 2. Check the government office website, if available, for information regarding a search of the grantor-grantee index for real estate records. In some cases, such as in San Francisco and San Diego counties, this information is available online.
Search the records at the county recorder's office for the grant deed if you want to do it yourself. Grant deeds are signed and filed with the county office at the time of the sale of the property. Many offices transfer paper records to computerized files. Shares & Saves. Save. A grant deed is a legal document signed by the owner of real property stating that he (or a couple in the case of joint ownership) is the legal owner and that the property is being transferred free of any liens or claims. Grant deeds must be notarized
The Grant Deed. A grant deed is commonly used to transfer title to real estate to a living trust in California. To fill out a grant deed, you need a copy of your current deed, meaning the deed under which ownership of the property was transferred to you. Locate the assessor’s parcel number, sometimes referred to on deeds as the APN, the legal description of the property, and the way in which you hold title, on the deed.
The actual fee for a certified copy of a document from the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder / County Clerk is $6 for the first page and $3 for each additional page per document. THE FACTS • You can obtain a copy of your Grant Deed directly from the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk. No third party assistance is needed.• The County Registrar-Recorder mails the original Grant Deed document to the homeowner after it is recorded. Therefore, you should already have your original Grant Deed.• If you have the original Grant Deed in your possession there is no need to purchase a copy. Notice to Homeowners Grant Deed Copy Scam Many home owners are receiving official-looking letters as though they are from the County or a mortgage lender urging them to request an “official” copy of their Grant Deed in order to prevent foreclosure, prove that they own their home, and to be in compliance.
1. Obtain the owner’s complete name and the address of the property for which you seek grant deed information. If the grant deed information you seek is for a property you are purchasing, the owner-seller should provide this information to you. 2. Check the government office website, if available, for information regarding a search of the grantor-grantee index for real estate records. In some cases, such as in San Francisco and San Diego counties, this information is available online.
Form. To be legally effective, a grant deed must include certain basic information, including the name of the new owner, the signature of the person conveying title and a legal description of the property being conveyed by the deed. The person conveying title is the grantor, and the new owner is the grantee. California law allows the use of three different types of deeds to convey title to real estate. A grant deed is the middle-level deed because it includes more guarantees of title than a quitclaim deed but few guarantees than a warranty deed. The grant deed is also sometimes known as the special warranty deed
Like a quitclaim or warranty deed, the main purpose of the grant deed is to transfer property title from one person to another, such as from a seller to a buyer. A grant deed is written evidence that you actually own your property. California law allows the use of three different types of deeds to convey title to real estate. A grant deed is the middle-level deed because it includes more guarantees of title than a quitclaim deed but few guarantees than a warranty deed. The grant deed is also sometimes known as the special warranty deed