Process servers' incomes vary by state as well as from metropolitan to rural areas. According to ProcessServers.com, a routine process service costs between $35 and $100, with one of the factors being the typical charges for that region. The large number of documents, the high percentage of services completed, and his ingenuity on the job are signs of a process server who makes a good income. Other factors that affect how much money a process server earns are his locale, experience, and types of serves.
George Doyle/Stockbyte/Getty Images. In the movie Pineapple Express, the lead character, a process server, drives all over town with a stack of legal papers, such as subpoenas and notices to appear. The large number of documents, the high percentage of services completed, and his ingenuity on the job are signs of a process server who makes a good income. Other factors that affect how much money a process server earns are his locale, experience, and types of serves.
State organizations, colleges, and some private firms offer process server training that can help a rookie find work. Most process servers are paid between $30 and $250 per document served. They can make $25,000 to $70,000 per year, but it isn’t always smooth sailing. 
According to the jobs website Simply Hired, as of June 2014, the average annual salary for a process server is $59,000. In New York City, the average is $74,000, and in Omaha, Nebraska, it is $56,000. The large number of documents, the high percentage of services completed, and his ingenuity on the job are signs of a process server who makes a good income. Other factors that affect how much money a process server earns are his locale, experience, and types of serves.
Top Salaries. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics does not collect employment or wage data on process servers specifically, but according to the bureau's Spring 2012 Occupational Outlook Quarterly report, top earners in the field can make upwards of $70,000 a year. Standard fees tend to range between $20 and $80 per case, and since process servers are paid by the case, earnings entirely depend on how many assignments a server completes. Rates per case vary considerably based on geographic location or the need for fast service. Some locations will offer higher wages than others.
Serving legal papers for lawyers will pay you anywhere between $50.00 up to $200.00 per hour if you can build up your case load. This all new edition of HOW TO MAKE MONEY AS A PROCESS SERVER shows you how to do just that. You will discover for yourself in step-by-step detail how to make a killing serving legal papers in your area. You learn technical and legal aspects as well as how to find clients and build your business.
1 At ServeNow, a resource for finding pre-screened local process servers, the cost of hiring a process server for routine services ranges from $20 to $100, with the national average cost being $45 to $75. 1 Time and mileage rates also call for additional fees, which can cost $45; stakeout hourly rates can cost $50 to $75 per hour. 2  Some process servers charge separately for the cost of a notary, which can range from $10 to $25.
Answer     Restaurant servers make anywhere from $1000-4500 a month depending on the type of restaurant (Bar-type, fancy restaurant, chain restaurants) They ty … pically earn about $90-250 per night in tips plus an additional $3-11 an hour in wages. 
Process Server Salary. (United States). A Process Server earns an average salary of $37,398 per year. Pay for this job rises steadily for more experienced workers, but goes down noticeably for the few employees with more than 20 years' experience. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. $23,178 - $72,994. 