For other uses, see Mola (disambiguation) . A sunfish (or mola) is any fish in the Mola genus (family Molidae). The fishes develop their truncated, bullet-like shape because the back fin, with which they are born, never grows. Mola in Latin means millstone and describes the ocean sunfish’s somewhat circular shape. They are a silvery color and have a rough skin texture. The mola is the heaviest of all the bony fish, with large specimens reaching 14 ft (4.3 m) vertically and 10 ft (3.0 m) horizontally and weighing nearly 5,000 lb (2,300 kg). Sharks and rays can be heavier, but they are cartilaginous fish. Mola are found in temperate and tropical oceans around the world
Sunfish, or Mola mola, are the heaviest of all the bony fish, with large specimens reaching 14 feet (4.2 meters) vertically and 10 feet (3.1 meters) horizontally and weighing nearly 5,000 pounds (2,270 kg). Sharks and rays can be heavier, but they're cartilaginous fish. 
Genus. Mola. Not only is the sunfish (Mola mola) the world’s heaviest bony fish, with some individuals weighing in at a staggering 2.3 tonnes, but it also possesses a truly bizarre body shape, likened to a gigantic ‘swimming head’ . The sunfish has no tail, with the caudal fin reduced to a rudder-like structure, called the clavus
They are a silvery color and have a rough skin texture. The mola are the heaviest of all the bony fish, with large specimens reaching 14 feet (4.2 meters) vertically and 10 feet (3.1 meters) horizontally and weighing nearly 5,000 pounds (2,268 kilograms). Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: As gigantic as the ocean sunfish can be, it still seems like only half a fish. Sunfish, or mola, develop their truncated, bullet-like shape because the back fin which they are born with simply never grows. Instead, it folds into itself as the enormous creature matures, creating a rounded rudder called a clavus
This article is about the ocean sunfish, Mola mola. For other fishes known as sunfish, see Sunfish (disambiguation) . The ocean sunfish or common mola, Mola mola, is the heaviest known bony fish in the world. It has an average adult weight between 247 and 1,000 kg (545–2,205 lb). The species is native to tropical and temperate waters around the globe. It resembles a fish head with a tail, and its main body is flattened laterally. A member of the order Tetraodontiformes, which also includes pufferfish, porcupinefish, and filefish, the sunfish shares many traits common to members of this order. The ocean sunfish, Mola mola, is the type species of the genus.
Fish or craft project? Ocean sunfish, or molas, look like the invention of a mad scientist. Huge and flat, these silvery-gray fish have tiny mouths and big eyes that vanish into an even bigger body with a truncated tail. Topping out around 5,000 pounds, molas are the world's heaviest bony fish. (This category doesn't count sharks and rays. 
Jellyfish are a mola's favorite food. They also eat small fish and microscopic plants and animals found in the water. 1  Facts about Molas: 2  The mola, also called the giant ocean sunfish, is gigantic. 3  In fact, it's the largest of all bony fish. 1 The mola, also called the giant ocean sunfish, is gigantic. 2  In fact, it's the largest of all bony fish. 3  These giant sunfish can grow to weigh as much as 5,000 pounds (2,268 kilograms).
The ocean sunfish, Mola mola, or common mola, is the heaviest known bony fish in the world. It has an average adult weight of 1,000 kg (2,200 lb). The species is native to tropical and temperate waters around the globe. It resembles a fish head with a tail, and its main body is flattened laterally. 