Trim one slab (about 1 1/2 lb) country style boneless pork ribs of fat cap and any silverskin. Deepen the cuts to a little over half the thickness of the slab. Give at a good sprinkle with 7:2:2 seasoning. This is 7 parts kosher salt, 2 parts each pepper and granulated garlic. Another weeknight recipe for one of my favorite “Cooking For Two” meats, country style boneless pork ribs. A little pan searing, coat with BBQ sauce and finish in the oven. Very good. For those of you unfamiliar with the cut, it is really the tail end of a pork loin cut in half and scored to make “ribs”.
Cook in a slow oven, 250 degrees fahrenheit, for 2 hours.  Remove foil, and turn ribs over, making sure they are moist.  Check for tenderness to determine how much longer they should cook.  Re-cover with foil and cook the amount of time you determine they need. Add in paprika to taste. Roll each portion of meat in sugar-salt-paprika mixture. Place meat in large baking dish in about one inch of water (or halfway each rib). Bake at 250 degrees for one hour-remove from oven-turn meat. Bake at 250 degrees for one hour-remove from oven. Drain and add barbeque sauce as needed-increase heat to 400 degrees. Bake 30 minutes
Best Answer: Simple. Put aluminum foil down in like a corning ware dish with enough excess to fold over them, pour in BBQ sauce over the ribs, fold foil over and put a lid on and cook at 350 degrees for 1 and 1/2 hours. 
1 Preheat grill to medium. 2  Remove ribs from water and place in a large bowl. 3  Drench the ribs in additional barbecue sauce. 4  Transfer ribs to preheated grill. 5  Close grill lid. 6  Grill for 10 to 20 minutes, basting generously with barbecue sauce & turning often (every 2 minutes). 1 Cover, and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce heat. 3  Simmer covered for 2 hours, until ribs are tender. 4  Preheat grill to medium. 5  Remove ribs from water and place in a large bowl. 6
1 Reduce heat. 2  Simmer covered for 2 hours, until ribs are tender. 3  Preheat grill to medium. 4  Remove ribs from water and place in a large bowl. 5  Drench the ribs in additional barbecue sauce. 6  Transfer ribs to preheated grill. 7  Close grill lid. 1 Cover, and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce heat. 3  Simmer covered for 2 hours, until ribs are tender. 4  Preheat grill to medium. 5  Remove ribs from water and place in a large bowl. 6
1 Rub seasoning mixture over the ribs. 2  Line a shallow baking pan with foil; oil or spray with nonstick cooking spray. 3  Arrange ribs on the foil. then top with onion slices. 4  Cover with another piece of foil and bake at 325° for 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until very tender. 
1 Double wrap ribs in aluminum foil, place in a 9x13-inch baking dish and bake for 1 1/2 hours in a 350°F oven. 2  Remove ribs from the aluminum foil. 3  Place ribs and sauce in a roaster and bake uncovered for 45 minutes in a 350°F oven. 1 Combine all ingredients in a large pot and bring to a slow boil. 2  Simmer for 45 minutes. 3 