Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. In the 1980s, Mayo Clinic researchers measured digestion time in 21 healthy people. Total transit time, from eating to elimination in stool, averaged 53 hours (although that figure is a little overstated, because the markers used by the researchers passed more slowly through the stomach than actual food).
Your body can digest most food in less time it takes hotshot celebrities to get engaged: about 4-12 hours. Fruits are the fastest travelers on the intestinal interstate, with meats driving like an oversized load in the right lane (they can take 2-3 days to be excreted or even longer as it rots inside your intestine). It depends on what you're eating, Dr. Oz, Vice-Chair and Professor of Surgery at Columbia University, says. A steak dinner can take you two, maybe three days to get out of your intestine. What that means is the way you digest it is basically to rot it in your intestines. On the other hand, if you eat vegetables and fruits, they're out of your system in less than 12 hours.
In the stomach, the food is broken down into easily absorbable ingredients: proteins, sugars and fats. Then greenish brown bile produced in the liver is added to help the breakdown of these fats. By the time the food leaves your stomach and passes into the small intestine, it's unrecognizable. The walls of our intestines absorb the nutrients into our blood and that's how we get the energy we all need to live. It depends on what you're eating, Dr. Oz, Vice-Chair and Professor of Surgery at Columbia University, says. A steak dinner can take you two, maybe three days to get out of your intestine. What that means is the way you digest it is basically to rot it in your intestines. On the other hand, if you eat vegetables and fruits, they're out of your system in less than 12 hours.
Hate to say dad’s wrong but he’s wrong. That’s on old wife's tale that’s been disproven many, many times. Depending on your digestive system it would take anywhere from 12 to 48 hours for the last piece of meat to leave your digestive system. Assuming you’re eating a lot of fiber it would be closer to 12 then 48. Stuff really doesn’t hang around in your system that long, your body is designed to process it, take what it can use and get rid of everything else. Colonics can be bad for you; it washed out vitamins and can cause an electrolyte imbalance that has resulted in death in a few people. Richard · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
In the stomach, food tends to hang around for a little longer and this depends on a variety of factors including the amount of food you have consumed, how much fat it contains, and also the acidity of the stomach. However, all food should have left the stomach within 2 to 4 hours. In the small intestine, digestion continues and absorption occurs. From here on, the time to defecation will vary depending on the time it takes to adequately digest and absorb in the small intestine. This will usually take 5 to 6 hours. The food then enters the colon for further digestion and water reabsorption before defecation. The time from it’s entering the colon to defecation is about 12 to 24 hours. Thus, the time for food to travel from one end to the other probably ranges from about 20 to 30
When your dog's digestive system is functioning smoothly, the typical meal takes 7- to 10-hours to pass through the digestive system. During this time, various organs reduce of food into nutrients (carbohydrates to simple sugars, fats to fatty acids, and proteins to amino acids) that your dog's cells can absorb and use. 
The average transit time through just the large intestine (colon) was 40 hours, with significant difference between men and women: 33 hours for men, 47 hours for women. Two British doctors studied digestion time in children. In the 1980s, Mayo Clinic researchers measured digestion time in 21 healthy people. Total transit time, from eating to elimination in stool, averaged 53 hours (although that figure is a little overstated, because the markers used by the researchers passed more slowly through the stomach than actual food).
In this article. Your digestive system is uniquely designed to turn the food you eat into nutrients, which the body uses for energy, growth and cell repair. Here's how it works. Your Digestive System