Antipsychotic-induced akathisia can be classified according to the time of onset in the course of antipsychotic treatment (acute, tardive, withdrawal and chronic akathisia). Reported prevalence rates vary widely between 5 and 36.8%. 
Benzatropine (INN), also known as benztropine (USAN, BAN), is an anticholinergic marketed under the trade name Cogentin which is used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, Parkinsonism, and dystonia. Benzatropine is an anticholinergic drug used in patients to reduce the side effects of antipsychotic treatment. Benzatropine is also a second-line drug for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. It improves tremor, but not rigidity and bradykines
1 Instruct the patient to discontinue the offending drug, and arrange for followup if medications must be adjusted. 2  If the culprit is long-acting, prescribe benztropine (Cogentin) 2mg or diphenhydramine (Benadryl) 25mg po q6h for 24 hours to prevent a relapse. 1 Do not persist with treatment in the face of a questionable response or no response, but get on with the workup to find another etiology for the dystonia (tetanus, seizures, hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, alkalosis, muscle disease, etc.).
EPS symptoms include dystonia, akathesia and pseudoparkinsonism (spasms, twitches and tremors) that appear earlier on than TD in treatment and can be treated. Artane, Cogentin and Benadryl are anticholinergics and can be used to treat EPS. Ativan is a benzo and not really a first-line EPS treatment. If you're thinking about the Haldol/Ativan/Cogentin combo for dangerously psychotic patients, the Ativan is in there for the sedative effects (i.e., to knock them out); the Cogentin manages the EPS.
2 Reviews. Benztropine is the generic from of the brand-name drug Cogentin, which is used to treat the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. It's also used to control severe reactions to certain medications that are used to treat nervous, mental, and emotional disorders. You may have to take benztropine for a long time to treat Parkinson's disease. However, you may only need it for one to two weeks if your tremors are caused by other medical problems or medications.
To help you remember, take it at the same times each day. Take this medication at least 1 hour before antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium. Allow at least 1-2 hours between doses of benztropine and certain drugs for diarrhea (adsorbent antidiarrheals such as kaolin, pectin, attapulgite). Take this medication at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. If you are taking this medication for side effects from another medication, your doctor may instruct you to take it on a regular schedule or only as needed. If you are taking this medication for Parkinson's disease, your doctor may change the dose of your other medications (e.g., levodopa).
Is there some reason the two can't be taken together or some reason people shouldn't be on cogentin or is she just being difficult. She told me that Clonazepam was the drug of choice for akathisia but that's not what I've seen online at all. 
Top. 0 I've been working in psych for almost 2 years. I've been putting haldol, benadryl and ativan in the same syringe for the entire time I've been working this specialty. I remember asking about this when I first started and told you can. I've never seen it precipitate so I've never thought twice about it. 