How Gemstones are Formed. Minerals form under various conditions in the earth. Most gemstones form in the Earth's crust; the top layer of the Earth, with a depth of 3 to 25 miles. Only two gemstone varieties-diamond and peridot-form in the Earth's mantle, which represents 80% of the Earth's volume. 
Minerals are naturally occurring chemical compounds that have a solid, crystalline structure, meaning they're arranged in unique geometric patterns at the atomic level. Minerals are also inorganic; they're not formed from amino acids, peptides, or enzymes, as living things are. Minerals grouped together form rocks; the combination of minerals determines the type of rock formed. Since minerals are pure, they can all be written as a single chemical formula. A mineral can also contain some impurities and still retain its name, as long as the majority of the solid is a single mineral.
1 Most of the earth's crystals were formed millions of years ago. 2  Crystals form when the liquid rock from inside the earth cool and harden. 3  Sometimes crystals form when liquids underground find their way into cracks and slowly deposit minerals. 1 When there is just a big hunk of a mineral, it is called a massive mineral. 2  If there is a definite shape with easy to see flat sides, it is called a mineral crystal. 3  Most of the earth's crystals were formed millions of years ago. 4
From molten rock, from solution, within living cells and by recrystallization. minerals form from natural processes because salt formed by the natural evaporation of seawater is the mineral halite and some minerals form when saltwater evaporates. They also occur on or inside the earth with no input from humans. Minerals are formed from magma when the lava cools and hardens to produce a solid. + 12 others found this useful. Irie Wright. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms.
Minerals can be formed from the intense heat and pressure found far beneath the earth's crust in the mantle, where molten rock flows as liquid magma. Silicates in the magma can form minerals such as hornblende and other igneous rocks as the magma cools. This process can take millions of years. Ninety-five percent of the earth's crust is formed from nine minerals, all of which are silicates, formed in this manner. Minerals grouped together form rocks; the combination of minerals determines the type of rock formed. Since minerals are pure, they can all be written as a single chemical formula. A mineral can also contain some impurities and still retain its name, as long as the majority of the solid is a single mineral.
Liquid Minerals. A solid mineral deposit can also be formed from the evaporation of a liquid solution. When a mineral is suspended in a solution, it can collect as the water in the solution evaporates into the air. Minerals grouped together form rocks; the combination of minerals determines the type of rock formed. Since minerals are pure, they can all be written as a single chemical formula. A mineral can also contain some impurities and still retain its name, as long as the majority of the solid is a single mineral.
Click Here to return to the search form. Almost all minerals and gems are formed below the Earth's surface. Some are brought to the surface through mining, some are brought to the surface through earth processes like faulting, folding, or volcanic eruptions. Some gems are formed in the mantle.The most abundant upper mantle mineral is olivine. Slabs of mantle material are brought to the surface through tectonic activity and volcanism. Gems that form deep in the mantle : Rocks such as kimberlites come from quite deep in the mantle and carry with them diamonds.
Minerals are typically formed when molten rock, or magma, cools, or by separating out of mineral-rich water, such as that in underground caverns. In general, mineral particles are small, having formed within confined areas such as lava flows or between grains of sediments. 
Minerals form in igneous rock as magma or lava cools. The minerals will form from the available chemicals in the magma as their crystallization temperature is reached. Minerals are formed from magma when the lava cools and hardens to produce a solid. + 12 others found this useful. Irie Wright. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms.