The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease. As the kidneys become impaired for any reason, the creatinine level in the blood will rise due to poor clearance of creatinine by the kidneys. Abnormally high levels of creatinine thus warn of possible malfunction or failure of
The blood creatinine level shows how well your kidneys are working. A high creatinine level may mean your kidneys are not working properly. The amount of creatinine in the blood depends partly on the amount of muscle tissue you have. Men generally have higher creatinine levels than women. A blood creatinine level or a creatinine clearance test is done to: 1  See if your kidneys are working normally. 2  See if your kidney disease is changing. 3  See how well the kidneys work in people who take medicines that can cause kidney damage. 4  Check for severe dehydration.
1 High creatinine blood levels. High creatinine blood levels can mean serious kidney damage or chronic kidney disease is present. 2  Kidney damage can be caused by a life-threatening infection, shock, cancer, or low blood flow to the kidneys. A blood creatinine level or a creatinine clearance test is done to: 1  See if your kidneys are working normally. 2  See if your kidney disease is changing. 3  See how well the kidneys work in people who take medicines that can cause kidney damage. 4  Check for severe dehydration.
Creatine is broken down into creatinine. Your kidneys take creatinine out of your blood and pass it out of your body in urine. If your kidneys are damaged and can't work as they should, the amount of creatinine in your urine goes down while its level in your blood goes up. Three types of tests can be done. Blood creatinine level. The blood creatinine level shows how well your kidneys are working. A high level may mean your kidneys are not working as they should. The amount of creatinine in the blood depends partly on the amount of muscle tissue you have. Men generally have higher creatinine levels than women
When there is kidney damage or kidney disease, and the kidneys are not able to filter waste efficiently, there will likely be a rise in creatinine levels in the blood. For adults with kidney disease, dialysis is recommended when creatinine levels reach 10.0 mg/dL. A creatinine clearance test is usually ordered if the serum creatinine level is higher than normal or when a person is starting dialysis. Normal creatinine clearance for men is between 97 to 137 milliliters per minute, and women have a normal clearance of 88 to 128 milliliters per minute.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
A creatinine level of 1.58 may be normal after removal of one kidney, especially if you are over 50 years of age. Removing one kidney always results in a decrease in total kidney function and an elevation in the creatinine test.. Notice the always.. 
Understanding Your Results: Normal Creatinine Levels. Creatinine is measured in milligrams per deciliter of blood (mg/dL). People who are more muscular tend to have higher creatinine levels. Normal creatinine levels range from 0.7 to 1.3 mg/dL in men and 0.6 to 1.1 mg/dL in women. Increased creatinine levels in the blood are indicators that the kidneys may not be functioning properly. Tell us what you think. A creatinine blood test measures the level of creatinine in the blood. Creatinine is a waste product that forms when creatine breaks down. Creatine is a substance found in muscle.
The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease. As the kidneys become impaired for any reason, the creatinine level in the blood will rise due to poor clearance of creatinine by the kidneys. Abnormally high levels of creatinine thus warn of possible malfunction or failure of the kidneys.