Origin of the name Jordan: Derived from the Hebrew yarden (to flow down, descend). The name was originally used in the Middle Ages for a child baptized in holy water said to be from the river Jordan. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Jordyn /jor-dyn/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used less regularly as boys' name Jordyn) is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of the name Jordyn is down-flowing. Jordyn is an alternate spelling of Jordan (Hebrew). Jardin is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Jodyn, Jordynna, Jordynni. Jordyn is an uncommonly occurring given name for women. Jordyn is an equally uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Jordyn for girls.
More About American Name: Jordyn. Jordyn, feminine variant of JORDAN. Jordan is the name of a river, flowing between the countries of Jordan and Israel in Palestine, where Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist. Jordyn Name also appears in following Origin(s): Irish, English
Jordyn is a spelling variant of the English, German, and Hebrew Jordan. Jordyn is popular as a baby girl name, and it is also regarded as trendy. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1980s; prior to that, it was of only sporadic use. At the modest height of its usage in 2010, 0.144% of baby girls were named Jordyn. It had a ranking of #112 the
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jordyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jordyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
The name Jordyn is very likely a(n) Hebrew variant of the name Jordan. See other suggested Hebrew baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Jordan. 
Meaning of Jordyn. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Jordyn means-descended.The name Jordyn originated as an Israeli name. The name Jordyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-descended. Origin-Israel
Jordyn is a rare given name for males. Jordyn is also a rare last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Jordyn for boys. Jordyn was first listed in 2001 and reached its highest position of #649 in the U.S. in the year 2010, and is at #895 presently. (2014 Birth Statistics). Below is a graphed analysis of the usage of Jordyn and affiliated names. Jordyn /jor-dyn/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more generally as girls' name Jordyn). Jordyn's name origin is Hebrew, and Jordyn means down-flowing. Jordyn is a version of Jordan (Hebrew). Compare last name Jardon