Anthony Tony Stark is a billionaire industrialist and inventor. He is the former CEO of Stark Industries, a conglomerate originally started by his father, Howard Stark. While in Afghanistan, Stark was captured by Ten Rings, and was ordered to build the Jericho missile for them. Tony returns to his home where he and J.A.R.V.I.S. try to find a solution in finding a new power source for the Arc Reactor. Uncertain of his outcome of survival, Tony appoints his former personal assistant Pepper CEO of Stark Industries, replacing her with Natalie Rushman.
Anthony Edward Tony Stark, simply known as Tony Stark, and also known as the famous super-hero named Iron Man, is a character that appears in the Iron Man Trilogy films and in The Avengers movie. He was portrayed by actor Robert Downey, Jr. , and is based on the character of the same name in the comics. He is well-known as Iron Man. also owns Stark Industries and is its CEO, lives in his house in Malibu, and is one of the founding and lead member of The Avengers. He is also in a relationship with Head-Chief of Stark Industries, and current girlfriend, Pepper Potts.
By Ryan Haupt. Marvel has a proud history of science-heroes, with many Marvel heroes emerging as accidents of science or the product of their own scientific ingenuity. Tony Stark is one such hero and in order to analyze his plausibility we brought in an honest to goodness scientist to figure it out for us. In Iron Man, Tony Stark makes a big deal out of getting palladium from the missiles in the cave when he's building his initial chest-sized arc reactor. This is likely an essential component of the reactor because palladium is one of the few elements theorized to be a potential room-temperature superconductor.
Iron Man (Tony Stark) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, as well as its associated media. The character was created by writer and editor Stan Lee, developed by scripter Larry Lieber, and designed by artists Don Heck and Jack Kirby. Iron Man is a playable character in Iron Man, the 1992 arcade game Captain America and the Avengers, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance and its sequel, and Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects, as well as being featured as an unlockable character in X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse and Tony Hawk's Underground.
1 Or maybe he is on some type of recreational drug. 2  It is Tony Stark – he likes to drink. 3  Tony Stark knows that only a worthy being can lift Mjoelnir mjölnir and he also knows he is not. 4  Worthy, however in an attempt to appear that he is (trying even though he knows he will) fail he uses The Iron man.  glove 1 I think the answer is that the computer Jarvis built the suit and S.H.I.E.L.D. along with Tony’s father (Howard Stark) built Jarvis. 2  Oh, of course this is different than the comic books. 3  Tony Stark is drunk and doesn’t know what he is doing. 4  Or maybe he is on some type of recreational drug.
In the film version of Iron Man, Stark Industries has a logo similar to that of defense contractors Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange as SIA. Stark Industries, later also known as Stark International, Stark Innovations, Stark/Fujikawa, Stark Enterprises and Stark Resilient, is a fictional multi-billion dollar Conglomerate owned and run by businessman Anthony Edward Tony Stark, also known as Iron Man.
I am Iron Man! Tony Stark is an engineering superhero! Although Tony Stark doesn't have any super powers, he is an incredibly good engineer. Iron Man is Tony Stark's creation. It's a special suit that gives Stark superhuman strength, the ability to fly and powerful weapons. Iron Man's suit isn't really made out of iron. That would be too heavy. Instead it is made out of a fictional material that is very light and very strong. Scientists haven't worked out how to make anything like it yet. An Iron Man suit could maybe be made out of a type of titanium, which is very strong
The palladium that powers Tony Stark's arc reactor—and, by extension, his Iron Man exoskeleton suit—is slowly leaking into his bloodstream and killing him. And the fast-talking industrialist has exhausted the rest of the periodic table looking for an element that is a safer power source than palladium. 