James Jimmy Stewart (1908-1997). James Stewart holds the M1928 Thompson as Agent Chip Hardesty in The FBI Story. James Jimmy Stewart was an American actor best known for his quiet everyman roles in such films as It's a Wonderful Life and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington
The actor was born James Maitland Stewart on May 20, 1908, in the western Pennsylvania town of Indiana, to Alexander Stewart and the former Elizabeth Ruth Jackson, who were of Scotch-Irish descent. 
Frae Wikipedia. James Maitland Stewart (Mey 20, 1908 – Julie 2, 1997) wis an American film an stage actor, kent for his distinctive drawl voice an doun-tae-yird persona. Ower the course of his career, he starred in mony films widely considered classics. 
James Maitland Jimmy Stewart (May 20, 1908 – July 2, 1997) was an American film and stage actor, known for his distinctive drawl and down-to-earth persona. He starred in many films that are considered to be classics and is known for portraying an American middle class man struggling with a crisis. In 1991, James Stewart voiced the character of Sheriff Wylie Burp in the movie An American Tail: Fievel Goes West, which was his last film role. Shortly before his 80th birthday, he was asked how he wanted to be remembered.
James Maitland Stewart (May 20, 1908 – July 2, 1997) was one of the most famous American movie and stage actors of all times. In his career, he starred in many movies considered classics and was nominated for five Oscars, winning one in competition and one life achievement. He also had an important military career, and made it to the rank of Brigadier General in the United States Air Force. Stewart became so familiar to the American public that he was most usually referred to by them as Jimmy Stewart. He was named the third Greatest Male Star of All Time by the American Film Institute.
Mini Bio (1). James Maitland Stewart was born on 20 May 1908 in Indiana, Pennsylvania, to Elizabeth Ruth (Johnson) and Alexander Maitland Stewart, who owned a hardware store. He was of Scottish, Ulster-Scots, and some English, descent. 
Stewart in It's a Wonderful Life. James Stewart (1908-1997), popularly known as Jimmy Stewart, was an American film and stage actor. He was known for his distinctive voice, with a rather hesitant delivery, and humble movie persona. Over the course of his career, he has starred in many films and became a major MGM star. 
Stewart was nominated for five Academy Awards, winning one in competition and receiving one Lifetime Achievement award. Stewart was named the third greatest male screen legend of the Golden Age Hollywood by the American Film Institute. He was a major Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer contract star. In 1991, James Stewart voiced the character of Sheriff Wylie Burp in the movie An American Tail: Fievel Goes West, which was his last film role. Shortly before his 80th birthday, he was asked how he wanted to be remembered.
Actor | Soundtrack | Director. James Maitland Stewart was born on 20 May 1908 in Indiana, Pennsylvania, to Elizabeth Ruth (Johnson) and Alexander Maitland Stewart, who owned a hardware store. He was of Scottish, Ulster-Scots, and some English, descent. 