You have three pairs of saliva glands in your mouth, and they each produce a different kind of saliva. The body always knows how much saliva to produce, and what kind. That’s why your saliva glands will produce much more saliva when you eat a dry cracker than when you eat a juicy piece of fruit! The largest saliva glands in the mouth produce more than 25,000 quarts of saliva in an average lifetime! Saliva also contains an enzyme called ptyalin, which digests food the same way that the digestive juices in your stomach do. This enzyme changes some of the starch in food into sugar, giving the stomach a “head start” in digesting the food.
The noun SALIVA has 1 sense: 1. a clear liquid secreted into the mouth by the salivary glands and mucous glands of the mouth; moistens the mouth and starts the digestion of starches. Familiarity information: SALIVA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. • SALIVA (noun). Meaning: A clear liquid secreted into the mouth by the salivary glands and mucous glands of the mouth; moistens the mouth and starts the digestion of starches. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Synonyms: saliva; spittle; spit.
Too Little Saliva. Certain diseases and medicines can affect how much saliva you make. If you do not make enough saliva, your mouth can become quite dry. This condition is called dry mouth (xerostomia). Dry mouth causes the gums, tongue, and other tissues in the mouth to become swollen and uncomfortable. Germs thrive in this type of setting. A germy, dry mouth leads to bad breath. That's because saliva helps clear food particles from your teeth. This helps reduce your risk for cavities. If you have dry mouth, you may also notice you do not taste things like you used to.
Our saliva is ninety-nine per cent water. The salivary glands in our mouth produce about 1-2 litres of saliva daily. Blood plasma is used as the basis, from which the salivary glands extract some substances and add various others. The list of ingredients found so far in saliva is long, and growing. 
As soon as you start to eat, glands in your mouth begin to secrete saliva, moistening and softening food to make it easier to swallow. Saliva also contains an enzyme called ptyalin, which digests food the same way that the digestive juices in your stomach do. This enzyme changes some of the starch in food into sugar, giving the stomach a “head start” in digesting the food.
Saliva is a watery substance located in the mouths of animals, secreted by the salivary glands. Human saliva is 99.5% water, while the other 0.5% consists of electrolytes, mucus, glycoproteins, enzymes, antibacterial, and bacteria compounds such as secretory IgA and lysozyme. The enzymes found in saliva are essential in beginning the process of digestion of dietary starches and fats. There is much debate about the amount of saliva that is produced in a healthy person per day; estimates range from 0.75 to 1.5 litres per day while it is generally accepted that during sleep the amount drops to almost zero.
Saliva is the watery liquid produced in the mouth to aide chewing and digestion of food Saliva consists of mainly water. It also has ions, enzymes and salivary proteins whic … h acts as a protective mechanism for our teeth. Source-see related link below. the saliva contain enzymes to help digest food, it also contain antibodies to fight bacterias, it also contain water to help mix the ffod and swallow it and to the formation o … f bolus. 2 people found this useful.
Saliva. Saliva is a watery substance located in the mouths of organisms, secreted by the salivary glands. Human saliva is 99.5% water, while the other 0.5% consists of electrolytes, mucus, glycoproteins, enzymes, and antibacterial compounds such as secretory IgA and lysozyme. 
Saliva testing is a diagnostic technique that involves laboratory analysis of saliva to identify markers of endocrine, immunologic, inflammatory, infectious, and other types of conditions. 