The following are the ten major causes of kidney disease. In the United States the two leading causes of kidney failure, also called end stage kidney disease or ESRD, are diabetes (also called Type 2, or adult onset diabetes) and high blood pressure. When these two diseases are controlled by treatment, the associated kidney disease can often be prevented or slowed down. Some of the other diseases that may affect the kidneys include infections, kidney stones and inherited diseases such as polycystic kidney disease. The kidneys can also be damaged by overuse of some over-the-counter pain killers and by taking illegal drugs such as heroin.
Renal failure, also known as kidney failure or renal insufficiency, is a medical condition in which the kidneys fail to adequately filter waste products from the blood. In kidney failure, there may be problems with increased fluid in the body (leading to swelling), increased acid levels, raised levels of potassium, decreased levels of calcium, increased levels of phosphate, and in later stages anemia.
1 Treatment of the underlying cause of kidney failure may return kidney function to normal. 2  Lifelong efforts to control blood pressure and diabetes may be the best way to prevent chronic kidney disease and its progression to kidney failure. 1 There are numerous causes of kidney failure, and treatment of the underlying disease may be the first step in correcting the kidney abnormality. 2  Some causes of kidney failure are treatable and the kidney function may retur
1 Symptoms of kidney failure are due to the build-up of waste products in the body that may cause weakness, shortness of breath, lethargy, and confusion. 2  Inability to remove potassium from the bloodstream may lead to abnormal heart rhythms and sudden death. 3  Initially kidney failure may cause no symptoms. 1 There are numerous causes of kidney failure, and treatment of the underlying disease may be the first step in correcting the kidney abnormality. 2  Some causes of kidney failure are treatable and the kidney function may return to normal.
Diabetes and high blood pressure cause most cases of ESRD. Other causes include: 1  Autoimmune diseases (like lupus and IgA nephropathy). 2  Genetic diseases (like polycystic kidney disease). 3  Injuries. 4  Some medicines or other drugs. 
Diseases and conditions that may slow blood flow to the kidneys and lead to kidney failure include: 1  Blood or fluid loss. 2  Blood pressure medications. 3  Heart attack. 4  Heart disease. 5  Infection. 6  Liver failure. 7  Use of aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen (Aleve, others) or related drugs. Damage to the kidneys. These diseases, conditions and agents may damage the kidneys and lead to acute kidney failure: 1  Blood clots in the veins and arteries in and around the kidneys. 2  Cholesterol deposits that block blood flow in
Your kidneys may be small, but they perform many vital functions that help maintain your overall health, including filtering waste and excess fluids from your blood. Serious kidney disease may lead to complete kidney failure and the need for dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to stay alive. While effective treatments are available for many kidney diseases, people are sometimes unaware that kidney disease can often be prevented. Some of the other diseases that may affect the kidneys include infections, kidney stones and inherited diseases such as polycystic kidney disease. The kidneys can also be damaged by overuse of some over-the-counter pain killers and by taking illegal drugs such as heroin.
Diabetes and high blood pressure are the most common causes of chronic kidney disease that leads to kidney failure. Diabetes or high blood pressure may also speed up the progression of chronic kidney disease in someone who already has the disease. The cause of chronic kidney disease isn't always known. But any condition or disease that damages blood vessels or other structures in the kidneys can lead to kidney disease. The most common causes of chronic kidney disease are: 1  Diabetes. 2  High blood sugar levels caused by diabetes damage blood vessels in the kidneys. 3  If the blood sugar level remains high over many years, this damage gradually reduces the function of the kidneys. 4  High blood pressure (hypertension) 
Causes. Acute kidney failure can occur when: 1  You have a condition that slows blood flow to your kidneys. 2  You experience direct damage to your kidneys. 3  Your kidneys' urine drainage tubes (ureters) become blocked and wastes can't leave your body through your urine. Damage to the kidneys. These diseases, conditions and agents may damage the kidneys and lead to acute kidney failure: 1  Blood clots in the veins and arteries in and around the kidneys. 2  Cholesterol deposits that block blood flow in