About This Book. Stargirl. From the day she arrives at quiet Mica High in a burst of color and sound, the hallways hum with the murmur of Stargirl, Stargirl.. She captures Leo Borlock's heart with just one smile. She sparks a school-spirit revolution with just one cheer. The students of Mica High are enchanted
Stargirl is a book written by one of the most talented writer. It starts with mysterious girl, Stargirl(Susan) transferring to Mica high-school, Arizona. Book Stargirl is about a girl and a boy on their high-school life. She wears 1950's and plays a ukulele on every birthdays. Then Stargirl arrives at Mica High and everything changes—for Leo and for the entire school. After 15 years of home schooling, Stargirl bursts into tenth grade in an explosion of color and a clatter of ukulele music, enchanting the Mica student body.
Here's a snapshot of Leo at the beginning of Stargirl 1  : He's a young boy. 2  He has never been in love. 3  He's a conformist. 4  He's a collector of porcupine ties. At times, even Leo has trouble believing she is genuine. At times, she seems almost otherworldly, and it's not like you hear about star people in everyday conversation. Nevertheless, Stargirl falls under the realism genre because it's a book about very believable teenage life. Characters speak and dress in an everyday way, and fall in love just like the rest of us. Of course Stargirl doesn't do anything in an everyday way
Download book Read book. Leo Borlock follows the unspoken rule at Mica Area High School: don't stand out--under any circumstances! Then Stargirl arrives at Mica High and everything changes--for Leo and for the entire school.
About This Book. Love, Stargirl picks up a year after Stargirl ends and reveals the new life of the beloved character who moved away so suddenly at the end of Stargirl. The novel takes the form of the world's longest letter, in diary form, going from date to date through a little more than a year's time. 
Love, Stargirl is a 2007 young adult novel by Jerry Spinelli. With the arrival of autumn, Stargirl's life is affected when, arriving at her Enchanted Hill to plant another spatula in her solar calendar, a calendar counting down the days to the Winter Solstice.
1 Leo Borlock is Stargirl's former love interest from Mica, Arizona. 2  During the time of this novel, she is writing the world's longest letter to Leo, documenting her days and adventures with her new friends and difficulties in her new town. With the arrival of autumn, Stargirl's life is affected when, arriving at her Enchanted Hill to plant another spatula in her solar calendar, a calendar counting down the days to the Winter Solstice.
It picks up where the previous novel left off after Stargirl left Mica High and describes her bittersweet memories in the town of Mica, Arizona along with the involvements of new people in her life, in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. With the arrival of autumn, Stargirl's life is affected when, arriving at her Enchanted Hill to plant another spatula in her solar calendar, a calendar counting down the days to the Winter Solstice.
Stargirl is a young adult novel written by American author Jerry Spinelli and first published in 2000. Stargirl was well received by critics, who praised the Stargirl (real name is Susan) character and the novel's overall message of nonconformity. It was a New York Times Bestseller, a Parents Choice Gold Award Winner, an ALA Top Ten Best Books Award winner, and a Publishers Weekly Best Book of the Year