A disregarded entity is an entity that holds legal title to property, but is not required to file an income tax return. There are four types of disregarded entities: revocable living trusts, Illinois type land trusts, single member limited liability companies and Delaware Statutory Trusts. The last thing I want to point out is that it is possible, and common, to chain together a series of disregarded entities. A building that is owned by a single member LLC, with the Sue Jones Revocable Living Trust as the sole member, is for IRS and 1031 exchange purposes, owned by Sue Jones herself.
Delaware Statutory Trust The third exception to the rule is the use of a Delaware Statutory Trust. In 2004, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2004-86 which states that under certain circumstances a Delaware Statutory Trust will be treated as a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes. The three exceptions pertaining to the transfer and receipt of exchange property are: 1) Revocable Living Trusts 2) A single member limited liability company (LLC), and 3) A Delaware Statutory Trust. These are all considered by the IRS as disregarded entities.
The value of both the gifts and the sales were based on independent valuations that included a discount for lack of marketability of approximately 37%. The IRS claimed that the entity should be disregarded for gift tax purposes resulting in a direct gift of the cash to the trusts. Taxpayer argued that the LLC should not be disregarded for gift tax purposes. The full Court reviewed the case and the majority held in favor of the taxpayer. No. 2), the court dealt with the issue as to whether a single-member LLC is to be disregarded for transfer tax purposes (i.e., gift tax purposes), thus treating the gift as a direct gift of the underlying property of the LLC.
Section 301.7701-2(a)(providing that (i) a business entity is any entity recognized for federal tax purposes (including an entity with a single owner that may be disregarded as an entity separate from its owner under Regs. Section 301.7701-3) that is not properly classified as a trust under Regs. The following example illustrates the potential of the Disregarded MM LLC for making gifts in a scenario where an entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes could not be utilized.
In addition, your trust’s income tax, paid by you as the grantor, is not considered an additional gift to the trust. Basically, the trust assets can grow for the benefit of the beneficiaries, without the economic burden of paying income tax. In essence, this is a tax-free gift. Dynasty trusts can also be structured as grantor trusts. A grantor trust means that you, as the grantor (the person who established the trust by gift or grant), retain certain powers over the trust that result in you continuing to pay income tax on the trust assets.
Senior transfers by gift one-third (1/3) of the Non-Voting Units to each of the Lineal Trusts in exchange for a membership interest in the LLC. The LLC is now a multi-member limited liability company for state law purposes but for federal income tax purposes is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner. The Lineal Trusts now own 99% of the LLC. The following example illustrates the potential of the Disregarded MM LLC for making gifts in a scenario where an entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes could not be utilized.
A “disregarded multi-member limited liability company” (“Disregarded MM LLC”) is a multi-member limited liability company for state law purposes but is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for federal income tax purposes. The following example illustrates the potential of the Disregarded MM LLC for making gifts in a scenario where an entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes could not be utilized.
Written by: Steven J. Fromm, J.D., LL.M. (Taxation). A disregarded entity refers to a business entity with one owner that is not recognized for tax purposes as an entity separate from its owner. A single-member LLC (SMLLC), for example, is considered to be a disregarded entity. For federal and state tax purposes, the sole member of a SMLLC disregards the separate legal status of the SMLLC otherwise in force under state law. 
Be aware of who pays the income tax on the trust income, the opportunities with grantor trust planning, and the income tax effect and distribution planning opportunities for non-grantor trusts. *A trust that holds S corporation stock will need special handling! Dynasty trusts can also be structured as grantor trusts. A grantor trust means that you, as the grantor (the person who established the trust by gift or grant), retain certain powers over the trust that result in you continuing to pay income tax on the trust assets.
§§ 301.7701-1(a) and 301.7701-2(c)(2) Entity existence is ignored A “tax nothing” Concept similar to the “Defective Trust” concept Copyright 2010 Oshins & Alexander 1122 Disregarded Entity Rev. Rul. 2004-77 An eligible entity with two owners under local law can be treated as a disregarded entity Rev. Rul. 