Justus Freiherr von Liebig (12 May 1803 – 18 April 1873) was a German chemist who made major contributions to agricultural and biological chemistry, and was considered the founder of organic chemistry. One of his most recognized accomplishments is the development of nitrogen-based fertilizer. In the first two editions of his book (1840, 1842), Liebig reported that there was not sufficient nitrogen in the atmosphere, and argued that nitrogen-based fertilizer was needed to grow the healthiest possible crops.
Nitrogen fertilizer is seen by scientists today as a major contributor to global pollution problems. The history of nitrogen fertilizer is intertwined with the history of chemical warfare and the progressive destruction of the earth's topsoil. Early History. German chemist Fritz Haber won the 1918 Nobel Peace Prize for discovering the process of turning the nitrogen in the atmosphere into material that can be used to make fertilizer. He had discovered a way of tapping into the earth's reservoir of nitrogen gas and converting it into liquid ammonia.
The answer to who invented fertilizer'' is Justus von Liebig. i guy invented it to help the plants because people were dying from hunger before in the 18 century. 1 Best Balanced Fertilizer for Flower Gardens All fertilizer is not created equal. 2  Balanced fertilizer is a type of fertilizer that has equal parts of the three main ingredients in all fertilizers: nitrogen, phosphorous 3  …. Easy, Cheap Garden Fertilizers Use fertilizers to feed your plants all season.
Tragically, Mr. Haber did not stop with nitrogen fertilizer but went on to invent chemical warfare during world war I by proposing the use of chlorine gas on the french in the trenches. He played a role in creating the gas that would later be used to exterminate his own people in world war II. 
Primary fertilizers include substances derived from nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. Various raw materials are used to produce these compounds. When ammonia is used as the nitrogen source in a fertilizer, one method of synthetic production requires the use of natural gas and air. The phosphorus component is made using sulfur, coal, and phosphate rock. The potassium source comes from potassium chloride, a primary component of potash. 3 Nitric acid and ammonia are used to make ammonium nitrate. This material is a good fertilizer component because it has a high concentration of nitrogen. The two materials are mixed together in a tank and a neutralization reaction occurs, producing
The invention of nitrogen fertilizer provided a way to artificially stimulate crop production. Nitrogen fertilizer factories now produce 100 million tons a year and two billion people depend on it for their food production. Scientists now refer to this as a nutrient overload that is dangerous to life on earth. Early History. German chemist Fritz Haber won the 1918 Nobel Peace Prize for discovering the process of turning the nitrogen in the atmosphere into material that can be used to make fertilizer. He had discovered a way of tapping into the earth's reservoir of nitrogen gas and converting it into liquid ammonia.
Neolithic man probably used fertilizers, but the first fertilizer produced by chemical processes was ordinary superphosphate, made early in the 19th century by treating bones with sulfuric acid. Coprolites and phosphate rock soon replaced bones as the P source. The K fertilizer industry started in Germany in 1861. 
Ammonia (Inventions). The invention: The first successful method for converting nitrogen from the atmosphere and combining it with hydrogen to synthesize ammonia, a valuable compound used as a fertilizer. Fritz Haber (1868-1934), a German chemist who won the 1918. 
For instance by planting legumes you are naturally adding nitrogen. Bone Meal Fertilizer is a natural way to add phosphorus to your garden plants. Who Invented Nitrogen Fertilizer Omri Listed Liquid Fertilizers heavy pruning on our neglected peach trees has stopped fruit growth this year. Ishmael the son of Abraham who was cast out after the birth of Isaac. A2306 Calibrating and Using Lawn Fertilizer and Lime Spreaders SR-08-01-(R12/99)-2M-50. FEEDING: Use a well balanced fertilizer recommended Who Invented Nitrogen Fertilizer Omri Listed Liquid Fertilizers especially for fruit trees. The assessment emphasizes how nitrogen links the different environmental issues that we have come to know so well: climate biodiversity air water and soil pollution.
First used by ancient farmers, fertilizer technology developed significantly as the chemical needs of growing plants were discovered. Modern synthetic fertilizers are composed mainly of nitrogen, phosphorous, and potassium compounds with secondary nutrients added. 3 Nitric acid and ammonia are used to make ammonium nitrate. This material is a good fertilizer component because it has a high concentration of nitrogen. The two materials are mixed together in a tank and a neutralization reaction occurs, producing