The adjective NORMAL has 4 senses: 1. conforming with or constituting a norm or standard or level or type or social norm; not abnormal. 2. in accordance with scientific laws. 3. being approximately average or within certain limits in e.g. intelligence and development. 
The normal distribution is the most common type of distribution, and is often found in stock market analysis. Given enough observations within a sample size, it is reasonable to make the assumption that returns follow a normally distributed pattern, but this assumption can be disproved. AAA |. A probability distribution that plots all of its values in a symmetrical fashion and most of the results are situated around the probability's mean. Values are equally likely to plot either above or below the mean. Grouping takes place at values that are close to the mean and then tails off symmetrically away from the mean. Also known as a Gaussian distribution or bell curve
Full Definition of NORMAL. 1. a: a normal line b: the portion of a normal line to a plane curve between the curve and the x-axis. 2. : one that is normal. 3. : a form or state regarded as the norm: standard. See normal defined for English-language learners. regular, normal, typical, natural mean being of the sort or kind that is expected as usual, ordinary, or average. regular stresses conformity to a rule, standard, or pattern.
For a normal random variable with mean μ and variance σ 2, the quantile function is. The quantile of the standard normal distribution is commonly denoted as zp. These values are used in hypothesis testing, construction of confidence intervals and Q-Q plots. 1 The conjugate prior of the mean of a normal distribution is another normal distribution. 2  Specifically, if x 1, …, xn are iid N(μ, σ2) and the prior is μ ~ N(μ0, σ2 0) , then the posterior distribution for the estimator of μ will be. 3  The family of normal distributions forms a manifold with constant curvature −1.
I'm not so certain that the issue is the definition of the term normal, so much as it is the value (positive or negative) or association (healthy vs. unhealthy) the term implies in a medical or social context. You did not share belief with a majority of the bell curve. There are a lot of people alive today who are living healthier, more empathetic lives because someone back then was willing to be abnormal in pursuit of a cause. The issue isn't in how we define normal, it's in how we use it as criteria for judgement.
It can't be and must not be normal to own slaves just because all the landowners in your state own slaves. Normal can't mean and must not mean what we see all the time or what we see the most of.. It must have a different meaning from that for it to mean anything of value to right-thinking people. Nor can it mean free of discomfort, as if normal were the equivalent of oblivious and you were somehow abnormal when you were sentient, human, and real. You did not share belief with a majority of the bell curve. There are a lot of people alive today who are living healthier, more empathetic lives because someone back then was willing to be abnormal in pursuit of a cause. The issue isn't in how we define normal, it's in how we use it as criteria for judgement.
Synonym Discussion of NORMAL. regular, normal, typical, natural mean being of the sort or kind that is expected as usual, ordinary, or average. regular stresses conformity to a rule, standard, or pattern.
It is past time that we rethink what we mean by the words normal and abnormal as those words apply to the mental and emotional states and behaviors of human beings. You did not share belief with a majority of the bell curve. There are a lot of people alive today who are living healthier, more empathetic lives because someone back then was willing to be abnormal in pursuit of a cause. The issue isn't in how we define normal, it's in how we use it as criteria for judgement.
A normal distribution is a distribution that is bell-shaped and symmetrical. The mean, median, and mode are all the same and coincide with the peak of the curve. The frequencies then gradually decrease at both ends of the curve. The normal distribution is also often called the bell-shaped curve because of its shape. That is, it is the number or response category with the most observations for that variable. The midpoint of the normal distribution is also the point at which three measures fall: the mean, median, and mode.