The bean straw bales come in what is considered 'standard small bales' out of the paddock. Each bale is approximately 1 metre in length x 35 cm height x 50 cm width.
1 Response. I don't think any research has been done on bean straw specifically. However, like most other straw, it is a good bedding source and as long as horses have plenty of good quality hay to eat they should not be consuming the straw. If they do consume the straw in small quantities it should not be a problem.
The Straw, the Coal, and the Bean The tale of The Straw, The Coal, and The Bean is a truly interesting and thought-provoking tale from the Brothers Grimm.
Although the end result of The Straw, The Coal, and The Bean can contain a sense of bewilderment for those that read it, this is a testament to how the initial friendship of the Straw, Coal, and Bean ends in a failed comedic journey and an unignorable sense of irony.
Bean straw is a commonly used garden mulch with numerous benefits. These include: Water Saving: Generous use of bean straw mulch can reduce watering by 60%. Bean straw mulch prevents loss of soil moisture by evaporation, but still allows rain to penetrate to the soil.
Pea straw is the most common type of pea forage. Its protein content is variable: values in the 5-10% DM range (Leclerc, 2003) and in the 10-15% DM range have been reported. The NDF content is about 53-63% DM (Borreani et al., 2007). It is also rich in minerals (7-12% DM), notably calcium (1.5-2%) (Leclerc, 2003).
Can bean straw be put out for horses? They have regular hay, to eat, but thought maybe they could use the bean straw to lay on. Also wanted to put it in the building they go into to give the floor some cushion. Will it hurt them if they eat it?
Bean straw is the stem of the Faba bean plant which provided beans for stock feed. Once the beans have been harvested, the remaining plant matter is packaged into small manageable square bales.
It is important to create a continuous covering with bean straw mulch so that the soil is not visible. Ideally a minimum ground covering of approximately 50 mm - 80 mm is desirable. However, we recommend that you don't hold back, as creating a thick layer is an excellent method to retain soil moisture.
I don't think any research has been done on bean straw specifically. However, like most other straw, it is a good bedding source and as long as horses have plenty of good quality hay to eat they should not be consuming the straw.