I am willing to sacrifice other specimens in the yard for their well-being but not my flowers!!!! Suprisingly, there are a number of annual plants that do not appeal to deer (although when hungry, they will eat almost anything). The following is a list of some deer resistant annuals. Ageratum. Begonia (Wax) not always. 
When you buy deer resistant plants, they are grown in packs of four with each plant costing as little as $2.65 each! Deer Resistant plants can be mixed with your Delphinium, Perennial and Annual plant packs in your tray. 
Deer Resistance. Petunias (Petunia spp.), a popular garden annual, are occasionally or frequently browsed by deer. Deer are especially attracted to moist plants, such as petunias, in spring and summer. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Deer are attracted to well-fertilized plants, such as those grown in gardens. Deer obtain protein, minerals, salt and one-third of their water intake from tender foliage and irrigated plants, according to the University of Georgia. Petunias tend to attract deer. 1  Flowers That Deer Hate
I've been trying to plant deer resistant annuals more this year and I never had a problem with petunias till this season. One area I had was pretty much ruined by them 2 days ago. I've been dealing with the deer problem for years now, so guess I have another annual that I can't plant. My petunias survived their initial sheering, but periodically they get eaten again. The wave petunias that are close to the ground are being left alone. All the others are routinely pruned. I just keep watering and feeding in hopes the deer will settle for something else eventually.
Our selection of deer-resistant plants are unappetizing to those curious critters, allowing you to create eye-catching displays throughout your garden and on your porches and patios, knowing the leaves and flowers will be able to reach their full stunning potential! Sort by: A-Z Z-A Best Selling. 
Clausen's new book, 50 Beautiful Deer-Resistant Plants, is more than just an illustrated encyclopedia of what plants to embrace and what plants to avoid. Design tips are part of the 225-page package. She also delves into commonly used controls such as fences, tree trunk wrappings, repellents and home remedies. Plant a lot of deer-resistant plants and see if that helps, she says. Herbs and plants with a strong odor are seldom browsed and that includes lots of herbs, also ferns and ornamental grasses. Shrubs like bluebeard, weigela and shrub potentilla are great for blocking deer paths.
The following is a list of landscape plants rated according to their resistance to deer damage. The list was compiled with input from nursery and landscape professionals, Rutgers New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station (NJAES) Cooperative Extension personnel, and Master Gardeners in Northern N.J. Realizing that no plant is deer proof, plants in the Rarely Damaged, and Seldom Severely Damaged categories would be best for landscapes prone to deer damage.
Save. Deer will eat just about any plant if they are hungry enough, but certain plants are in more danger than others. Petunias (Petunia spp. ) are not deer's favorite plants, but they are occasionally or frequently damaged if deer visit the yard. 