For one thing, the estate tax applies to assets you own in a Roth IRA the same way it applies to assets you own in a regular IRA. What’s more, if you die less than five years after setting up a Roth IRA, your beneficiaries may have to pay tax on earnings if they withdraw them too soon. Non-spouse beneficiary. If you inherit a Roth IRA from someone other than your spouse, you aren’t permitted to make contributions to the inherited IRA or combine it with any Roth IRA you established for yourself. What’s more, you have to follow the minimum distribution rules for inherited IRAs.
Therefore, the tax rate depends on how much other income you have and your filing status. For example, if you fall squarely within the 28 percent tax bracket, and you take a $10,000 taxable distribution from your inherited IRA, you'll pay $2,800 in taxes. Inheriting an individual retirement account (IRA) can be both a blessing and a curse: A blessing because of the obvious financial windfall, but a curse because distributions from inherited IRAs are taxed in the same way they would have been taxable to the decedent.
Inherited IRA distribution rules: 1  Generally, you must take distributions during your lifetime or within five years after the original account holder passed away. 2  With an Inherited Traditional IRA, you’ll pay taxes on any distributions you take. 3  Rollover, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs become Inherited Traditional IRAs. 1 Generally, you must take distributions during your lifetime or within five years after the original account holder passed away. 2  With an Inherited Traditional IRA, you’ll pay taxes on any distributions you take.
Example: You inherit a Roth IRA that was established two years earlier. The Roth IRA includes $96,000 from a rollover contribution and $4,000 of earnings. You can immediately withdraw the entire $100,000 and pay tax (but no penalty) on the $4,000 of earnings. Non-spouse beneficiary. If you inherit a Roth IRA from someone other than your spouse, you aren’t permitted to make contributions to the inherited IRA or combine it with any Roth IRA you established for yourself. What’s more, you have to follow the minimum distribution rules for inherited IRAs.
Inheriting a Roth IRA. If you inherit a Roth IRA and transfer the assets to an Inherited Roth IRA, unlike the original owner, you must take MRDs. As long as the assets have been in the Roth IRA for five or more years, these MRDs can be withdrawn federally tax-free. 
Current as of November 16, 2013. Rules for distributions from an inherited Roth IRA. We sometimes see statements like this: “On your death, your beneficiaries receive your Roth IRA tax-free.” That statement could be a little misleading. Non-spouse beneficiary. If you inherit a Roth IRA from someone other than your spouse, you aren’t permitted to make contributions to the inherited IRA or combine it with any Roth IRA you established for yourself. What’s more, you have to follow the minimum distribution rules for inherited IRAs.
Tax Rates. Taxable distributions from an inherited IRA count just like any other ordinary income on your tax return. Even if you invest the money in the account in stocks or other capital assets, it won't qualify for long-term capital gain rates. Inheriting an individual retirement account (IRA) can be both a blessing and a curse: A blessing because of the obvious financial windfall, but a curse because distributions from inherited IRAs are taxed in the same way they would have been taxable to the decedent.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. The same combined contribution limit applies to all of your Roth and traditional IRAs.
As tax-deferred retirement plan, distributions from an inherited traditional IRA is fully taxable, even for a beneficiary. The only way a portion of the distribution won't be taxed is if the decedent made nondeductible contributions to the traditional IRA, meaning she put money in and didn't claim a deduction. Inheriting an individual retirement account (IRA) can be both a blessing and a curse: A blessing because of the obvious financial windfall, but a curse because distributions from inherited IRAs are taxed in the same way they would have been taxable to the decedent.