The Constitutional Convention took place from May 14 to September 17, 1787, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The point of the event was decide how America was going to be governed.Although the Convention had been officially called to revise the existing Articles of Confederation, many delegates had much bigger plans. Rhode Island was the only state to not send any delegates at all. As history played out, the result of the Constitutional Convention was the United States Constitution, but it wasn't an easy path. The drafting process was grueling
The Constitutional Convention (or the Philadelphia Convention) was called to amend the Articles of Confederation, the rules for the United States' first independent government … . But when the fifty-five delegates attempted to amend the plan, they realized the task was impossible. The delegates elected George Washington to preside over the convention. The result of the Convention was the United States Constitution, placing the Convention among the most significant events in the history of the United States.
The delegates elected George Washington to preside over the Convention. The result of the Convention was the creation of the United States Constitution, placing the Convention among the most significant events in the history of the United States. The Constitutional convention took place in Philadelphia on May 14, 1787. Rhode Island, fearing that the Convention would work to its disadvantage, boycotted the Convention and, when the Constitution was put to the states, initially refused to ratify it.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The outcome of the Constitutional Convention was the repealing of the 17th Amendment. This dealt with the direct election of U.S. senators based on popularity votes alone. The delegates elected George Washington to preside over the convention. The result of the Convention was the United States Constitution, placing the Convention among the most significant events in the history of the United States.
Issues and Delegates at the Constitutional Convention of 1875. The Constitutional Convention of 1875 was the result of the determination of the Democrats of Texas to eliminate the radical Constitution of 1869. The convention, presided over by Edward B. Pickett, met in Austin on September 6, 1875, and adjourned on November 24. The new Constitution of 1876, which was adopted by a vote of fifty-three to eleven, was submitted to the people in an election on February 15, 1876.
The Constitutional Convention (or the Philadelphia Convention) was called to amend the Articles of Confederation, the rules for the United States' first independent government … . But when the fifty-five delegates attempted to amend the plan, they realized the task was impossible. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Hrt99. Confidence votes 45. It was initially the Grand Convention or Philadelphia Convention, not the Constitutional Convention, as it had been called in 1787 ostensibly to amend the Articles of Confederation.
The hundred day debate known as the Constitutional Convention was one of the most momentous occurrences in United States Constitutional History, and the events that would take place in the Pennsylvania State House during that time would set the United States on the course towards becoming a true Constitutional Republic. Rhode Island was the only state to not send any delegates at all. As history played out, the result of the Constitutional Convention was the United States Constitution, but it wasn't an easy path. The drafting process was grueling
Scene at the Signing of the Constitution of the United States. The Constitutional Convention (also known as the Philadelphia Convention, the Federal Convention, or the Grand Convention at Philadelphia) took place from May 25 to September 17, 1787 in Great Britain. The Constitutional convention took place in Philadelphia on May 14, 1787. Rhode Island, fearing that the Convention would work to its disadvantage, boycotted the Convention and, when the Constitution was put to the states, initially refused to ratify it.