Serotonin plays a role in many brain processes, including body temperature regulation, sleep, mood, appetite, and pain. Problems with the serotonin pathway are linked to obsessive-compulsive disorder, anxiety disorders, and depression. The Dopamine Pathways. Dopamine is the neurotransmitter used by the reward pathway (also called the mesolimbic pathway, which is closely linked with the mesocortical pathway). But there are two other important pathways in the brain that use dopamine: the nigrostriatal pathway and the tuberoinfundibular pathway
Dopaminergic pathways, sometimes called dopaminergic projections, are neural pathways in the brain that transmit the neurotransmitter dopamine from one region of the brain to another. The neurons of the dopaminergic pathways have axons that run the entire length of the pathway. The neurons' somata produce the enzymes that synthesize dopamine, and they are then transmitted via the projecting axons to their synaptic destinations, where most of the dopamine is produced. Dopaminergic nerve cell bodies in such areas as the substantia nigra tend to be pigmented due to the presence of the black pigment melanin. There are eight dopaminergic pathways.
SSRIs can only control the symptoms of depression by increasing the serotonin levels in the brain. They fail to address and cure the underlying cause of depression or other conditions such as obsessive compulsive disorder and phobias. This eases the symptoms of depression resulting from the low levels of serotonin. SSRIs may take around two to four weeks to raise the levels of serotonin in the brain and the treatment benefits may not be seen for a month or so.
The mesolimbic pathway can be seen here as the blue projections from the VTA to the Nucleus Accumbens. The mesolimbic pathway, sometimes referred to as the reward pathway, is a dopaminergic pathway in the brain. The pathway begins in the ventral tegmental area of the midbrain and connects to the nucleus accumbens. Ventral tegmental area. The ventral tegmental area (VTA) is a part of the midbrain. It consists of dopaminergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic neurons. The VTA communicates with the nucleus accumbens via the medial forebrain bundle.
Mesolimbic Dopamine System. The mesolimbic dopamine system is a pathway in the brain in which dopamine is carried from one area of the brain to another. Dopamine is responsible for controlling the brain’s pleasure and reward centers. These pathways carry dopamine from one part of the brain to another. Covering the length of the pathways are neurons featuring axons. Among other functions, these signal-transmitting neurons play a role in the synthesizing of dopamine. Among the eight dopaminergic pathways is the mesolimbic pathway.
Dopamine also plays an important role as a hormone, inhibiting prolactin to stop the release of breast milk. Back in the mesolimbic pathway, dopamine can play a role in psychosis, and many antipsychotics for treatment of schizophrenia target dopamine. Dopamine is involved in the frontal cortex in executive functions like attention.
Mesolimbic and Dopaminergic Pathways. These pathways carry dopamine from one part of the brain to another. Covering the length of the pathways are neurons featuring axons. Among other functions, these signal-transmitting neurons play a role in the synthesizing of dopamine. Among the eight dopaminergic pathways is the mesolimbic pathway. From the midbrain’s ventral tegmental area (VTA), this pathway transmits dopamine to the limbic system’s nucleus accumbens, a collection of neurons in the brain’s striatum. Included in the mesolimbic pathway are the below structures:
The mesocortical pathway transmits dopamine from the VTA to the frontal cortex. The meso prefix in mesocortical refers to the VTA, which is located in the midbrain, and cortical refers to the cortex. This pathway is part of the mesocorticolimbic projection. Dopaminergic nerve cell bodies in such areas as the substantia nigra tend to be pigmented due to the presence of the black pigment melanin. There are eight dopaminergic pathways.