Harajuku (h) refers to the area around Tokyo 's Harajuku Station, which is between Shinjuku and Shibuya on the Yamanote Line. It is the center of Japan's most extreme teenage cultures and fashion styles, but also offers shopping for adults and some historic sights. 
The Birthplace of the Universal Concept “Kawaii”. Harajuku district in Tokyo is a leading area for Japanese young fashion. The area is like an exciting theme park for young Japanese girls in their teens and early twenties with abundance of shops and boutiques catering to mixed tastes. Although Takeshita Street is recognized abroad as the fashion street in Harajuku, the cute two story shop situated a little ways from Takeshita Street, with pink exterior, is what started “Harajuku Kawaii” fashion. Kyary Pamyu Pamyu herself has long been a fan of this shop even before her debut.
Harajuku Fashion. Harajuku has become world famous as Japan’s center of street fashion. This square mile area is jam-packed with boutiques, fashion malls and chains. Every single day of the year, tens of thousands of people come here to shop, hang out, and see what the latest trends are. 
Harajuku. This isn't really a definition. Anyways, 'Harajuku' is a location in Japan where the young and teenagers dress in their own fashions they invent themselves, or cosplay outfits. In the song Rich Girl.. or mainly any Gwen Stefani song, she has her Harajuku girls in it
Harajuku (原宿, listen (help·info)) is a district in Shibuya, Tokyo, Japan. Harajuku is the common name given to a geographic area spreading from Harajuku Station to Omotesando, corresponding on official maps of Shibuya ward as Jingūmae 1 chōme to 4 chōme. In the pre Edo period, the area that came to be known as Harajuku was a small post town on the Kamakura Highway. It was said that in the Gosannen War, Minamoto no Yoshiie mustered his soldiers in this area and the hill here is called Seizoroi-saka (current Jingūmae 2 chōme)
Harajuku style originated among teens on the streets near Harajuku Station in Shibuya, Japan. It may have been brought to many people's attention by American singer Gwen Stefani, but the evolution of the style certainly didn't begin with her and it certainly won't end with her. Mix and (mis)match different fashions. What is now known as Harajuku (like Halloween in Japan every Sunday) style started as teens in the district began to integrate traditional Japanese attire, especially kimonos and geta sandals, into their wardrobe.
Harajuku, which translates as 'meadow lodging,' is actually the name for the area around Harajuku Station on the Yamanote Line of the commuter rail in Tokyo. Harajuku girls in Tokyo. The focal point of Harajuku's teenage culture is Takeshita Dori (Takeshita Street) and its side streets, which are lined with many trendy shops, fashion boutiques, used clothes stores, crepe stands and fast-food outlets geared toward the fashion-and-trends conscious teens. Istolethetv, flickr.
Harajuku is not only an area in Tokyo, but a fashion trend that has become well-known throughout the world. Harajuku girls in Tokyo. The focal point of Harajuku's teenage culture is Takeshita Dori (Takeshita Street) and its side streets, which are lined with many trendy shops, fashion boutiques, used clothes stores, crepe stands and fast-food outlets geared toward the fashion-and-trends conscious teens. Istolethetv, flickr.