In another kind of corporation the legal document which established the corporation or which contains its current rules will determine who the corporation's members are. Who a member is depends on what kind of corporation is involved. In a worker cooperative the members are people who work for the cooperative. There is some overlap between stock/non-stock and for profit/not-for-profit in that not-for-profit corporations are always non-stock as well. A for profit corporation is almost always a stock corporation, but some for profit corporations may choose to be non-stock.
A corporation is a company or group of people authorized to act as a single entity (legally a person) and recognized as such in law. Early incorporated entities were established by charter (i.e. by an ad hoc act granted by a monarch or passed by a parliament or legislature). There is some overlap between stock/non-stock and for profit/not-for-profit in that not-for-profit corporations are always non-stock as well. A for profit corporation is almost always a stock corporation, but some for profit corporations may choose to be non-stock.
One of the main reasons people form a corporation or a limited liability company (LLC) is to limit their personal liability for company debts. However, there are many ways to become responsible for company debts. Cosigning or Personally Guaranteeing Business Debts. If you cosign on a business loan, you are as equally responsible as the corporation or LLC to pay it back. This is usually the simplest way to voluntarily make yourself liable for your company’s debts.
An employer could potentially face legal liability if negligence led to an accident. In cases where a worker's own behavior led to an accident, employers are still responsible for ensuring the worker's safety if the event occurred on company property or on company time. 
A corporation or LLC’s owners may also be held personally liable if they are found to have committed fraud. If the owner made fraudulent representations or omissions when applying for a business loan, he or she can be held personally responsible for the resulting harm to the creditor and risk losing personal assets. Cosigning or Personally Guaranteeing Business Debts. If you cosign on a business loan, you are as equally responsible as the corporation or LLC to pay it back. This is usually the simplest way to voluntarily make yourself liable for your company’s debts.
Legal liability is the legal bound obligation to pay debts. In law, a person is legally liable when he/she is financially and legally responsible for something. Liability may also be imposed joint and severally in certain cases. Liabilities arising from a contract to borrow money are debt. 1  Under English law, with the passing of the Theft Act 1978, it is an offense to evade a liability dishonestly. 2  Payment of damages usually resolved the liability.
Registration is the main prerequisite to the corporation's assumption of limited liability. The law sometimes requires the corporation to designate its principal address, as well as a registered agent (a person or company designated to receive legal service of process). There is some overlap between stock/non-stock and for profit/not-for-profit in that not-for-profit corporations are always non-stock as well. A for profit corporation is almost always a stock corporation, but some for profit corporations may choose to be non-stock.
Download article as a PDF. Slip and fall is a term used for a personal injury case in which a person slips or trips and is injured on someone else's property. These cases usually fall under the broader category of cases known as premises liability claims. 
A corporation's shareholders have an ownership interest in the company, by having money invested in the corporation. A share is an apportioned ownership interest in the corporation, and the value of a single share can range from less than a 1% interest in the corporation, to 100%. 
When a corporation is a sham, engages in Fraud or other wrongful acts, or is used solely for the personal benefit of its directors, officers, or shareholders, courts may disregard the separate corporate existence and impose personal liability on the directors, officers, or shareholders. Corporations issue share certificates in the name of a person, who becomes the record owner (i.e., the owner according to company records) and is treated as the sole owner of the shares. The company records of these transactions are called stocktransfer books or share registers.