1. Don't touch it. If you have a cold sore and want to stop it growing and spreading, it's very important that you resist the urge to touch it, pick it, scratch it, or rub it. Touching a sore is surefire way to exacerbate it and risk spreading to other parts of your body. 2. Cover and protect it. To try and stop a cold sore growing it can be beneficial to cover it in some way to stop it becoming more infected and also to keep it protected from potential irritations. Cold sore patches containing hydrocolloid gel can be used to cover and protect the sore.
4. Try lemon balm cream. Lemon balm is an herb in the mint family that has been shown to prevent cold sores from forming. When you feel the telling tingle of a cold sore coming on, apply a dab of lemon balm cream and let it soak into your skin. Reapply as necessary according to the instructions on the packaging. Cold sores are small blisters that form on the lips or around the mouth as a result of the herpes simplex virus. The skin around the blisters is typically sore, red and swollen. Once you are infected with the virus, there is no way to completely prevent future cold sores.
Before I share a great little tip on how to stop a sore throat from progressing into a week-long cold, please know that periodically experiencing a cold or the flu can actually be helpful to your health. Here's how you can stand a good chance of preventing a cold from developing: As soon as you experience that sore, tickly feeling in your throat that precedes a full-blown cold, gargle with warm salt water.
12:01AM BST 21 Sep 2005. A nasal spray that is claimed to be the first clinically proven treatment to stop a common cold from fully developing goes on sale next month. Procter & Gamble said its Vicks First Defence can both reduce the chance of developing a full-blown cold and the severity of symptoms.
2) Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth. If you blow your nose, wash your hands before touching your mouth or eyes. If you cough, wash your hands before touching your eyes or nose. If you need to rub your eyes (itchy eyes) try to wash your hands first. The key here is that you CAN give a cold back to yourself. 3) It’s okay to blow your nose. It is your body’s way of cleaning debris and foreign objects (viruses and/or its byproducts) out of your system. 4) Take Vitamins. If you don’t want a cold you probably don’t want to intentionally expose yourself to people who have a cold. IF you must, wash your hands afterwards if you touched them (shaking hands) and it wouldn’t hurt to make sure you take your vitamins that day. 6) Eat healthy, energizing food.
Keep your hands clean. If you want to stop a cold sore from growing or spreading it's essential to ensure that you maintain good hygiene. Keeping your hands clean by regularly washing them with soap and water will limit the chances of it spreading. 2. Cover and protect it. To try and stop a cold sore growing it can be beneficial to cover it in some way to stop it becoming more infected and also to keep it protected from potential irritations. Cold sore patches containing hydrocolloid gel can be used to cover and protect the sore.
And it can help prevent developing sinusitis after your cold. HOUR 7: TAKE OVER-THE-COUNTER PAIN RELIEVER OR DECONGESTANT. Pain relievers such as Advil, Motrin or Tylenol can fight off achiness. Decongestants, such as Sudafed, help dry up mucous if you need to go to work. But skip the over-the-counter cough medicine. When you feel a cold coming on, time is of the essence. There are steps you can take to stop a cold in its tracks-and every hour counts. On The Early Show on Saturday Morning, Dr. Holly Phillips of WCBS-TV in New York offered an hour-by-hour cold-fighting countdown: HOUR 1: DRINK PLENTY OF FLUIDS.
If you kill cold germs on your hands before you transfer them to your nose or eyes, you stop a cold before it can start. Few of us can wash our hands as often as needed, though, so be sure to follow these other strategies as well: Avoid touching your face, especially your eyes and nose. Drink a lot of water. And tea, and juice, and clear broth. Fluids help your body heal from a cold by loosening congestion and preventing dehydration. Water, juice, clear broth, or warm lemon water with honey are the best fluids to rely on; alcohol, coffee, and caffeinated sodas only make dehydration worse.