Variation: Medium-boiled eggs: Gently simmer for 5 minutes. Hard-boiled eggs Gently simmer for 7 minutes. Tip: To shell hard-boiled eggs, remove pan from heat. Place under running water for 1 minute. Set aside in cold water until eggs are cool enough to handle. Tap egg on side of kitchen sink to crack shell. 
For a soft-boiled egg, lower the egg into gently boiling water with a slotted spoon. Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. Once cooked, plunge the hard-boiled egg into plenty of cold water for one minute.
Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. (For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.) Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. Run under cold tap water for 30 to 60 seconds. Here's a step-by-step tutorial to teach you exactly what to do. Pin it Timing the Perfect Soft-Boiled Egg A good soft-boiled egg really comes down to timing. Bring the water up to a boil, then lower it to a rapid simmer. Add the eggs to the pot, and then begin timing.
1 Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 2  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 3 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.). 4  Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. Here's a step-by-step tutorial to teach you exactly what to do. Pin it Timing the Perfect Soft-Boiled Egg A good soft-boiled egg really comes down to timing. Bring the water up to a boil, then lower it to a rapid simmer. Add the eggs to the pot, and then begin timing.
Cook. When I want a soft boiled egg I want the yolk soft and the white firm. The boiling time has a lot to do with your elevation. 5 minutes is perfect for an elevation of 1100 ft (330 meters) if you are nearer sea level decrease the boiling time if at a higher elevation increase the time. 
1 If you are using large eggs, cook the eggs for 4 minutes, for a runny yolk and 6 minutes for a medium-boiled egg, where the yolk is only slightly runny. 2  For medium sized eggs, reduce these cooking times by one minute. Soft-boiled eggs. Soft-boiled eggs served with soldiers are a favourite breakfast dish for many children and even some adults too. To be precise, the eggs are not actually boiled; they are in fact simmered for a minimum of three minutes, depending on how well or how runny the diner likes his egg.
1 3 minutes: the white is just set, and the yolk is just starting to thicken. 2  4 minutes: the white and yolk are set, with the center of the yolk still creamy. 3  Note: if your eggs are very fresh (1-5 days old), add an additional 30 seconds to the above times. 
Use a slotted spoon to lower the eggs gently into the simmering water. Cook the eggs for about 6 minutes; 5 minutes if you like a very runny yolk and 7 minutes if you prefer a firmer set one. Use the slotted spoon to remove the eggs from the water and place them into an ice-water bath for 30 to 60 seconds. Alternatively, run them under cold water. 
Directions. Place eggs in a saucepan large enough to accommodate them in a single layer. Fill the pan with cold water, covering eggs by an inch. Set over medium-high heat, and bring to a boil. Turn off heat, cover, and let stand 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Remove eggs from water. Serve immediately in egg cups -- perfect for cracking and scooping the egg right from the shell
Soft boiled: 2 minutes The white is solid, but the yolk is still runny. Serve in an egg cup for breakfast. Use the side of a small spoon to crack and remove the pointed end of the egg, making a hole in the shell large enough to fit the spoon. Or use egg scissors, if you have them. 