Well Done. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit. To reach this internal temperature, you need to leave the steak on the grill for 4 to 5 minutes per side for a 1-inch steak or 8 to 9 minutes for a steak measuring 1 3/4 inches. Leave the steak on the grill for an extended period of time, only flipping the steak once after 5 minutes of grilling. For a rare steak on the grill, cook the steak to an internal temperature of 135 degrees Fahrenheit. The internal temperatures for rare steaks are below USDA recommendations and are not considered safe.
320-350 f would be good.Make sure the steak is not too cold when put in pan or on bbq so it doesn't shrink into itself and come out tough. 4-5 minutes each side for a 3/4 inch steak. Turn only once. A 1 inch boneless rib eye, tenderloin, or top loin steak should be cooked for 6-8 minutes on the George Foreman Grill (covered) at 350 degrees F to 375 degrees F for medium ra … re. If you are cooking uncovered it should be 8-11 minutes.
About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes. 
Medium: Grill 10 minutes per side or to 155°F internal temperature. Check Internal Temperature. Remove steaks from the grill when a quick-response meat thermometer inserted through the side of the steak to its center reads the desired temperature below. To retain juices and reach final temperature, let steaks sit for 2 minutes before cutting. Steak Doneness
Medium. To prepare a medium steak on the grill, cook to an internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit. When you press the steak, it should feel slightly firm with a pink center and a grayish burn on the outside. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. For a rare steak on the grill, cook the steak to an internal temperature of 135 degrees Fahrenheit. The internal temperatures for rare steaks are below USDA recommendations and are not considered safe.
Grilling: Here's what I recommend. Get your grill good and hot. The ideal temperature is one that will cook the steak to the desired doneness in the shortest amount of time without burning the surface. Place the room temperature steaks on the grill and close the lid. Let the steak rest for about 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness. This allows the juices to move back into the meat. Resting should be done in a place that is about room temperature and with only a loose covering over it. If you doubt me, try cutting a steak in half right off the grill.
You should bring a steak to room temperature before grilling. Leaving meat out at room temperature is a formula for disaster and there isn't a respectable steak house in the world that does it. Steaks (indeed, any meat) should be kept ice-cold-and bacteria free-until the moment they go on the grill.