Osteoarthritis Treatments. Facet Joint Disorders. Spinal arthritis is one of the common causes of back pain. Spinal arthritis is the mechanical breakdown of the cartilage between the aligning facet joints in the back portion (posterior) of the spine that quite often leads to mechanically induced pain. 1 Lower back (lumbar spine) osteoarthritis, sometimes called lumbosacral arthritis, which produces stiffness and pain in the lower spine and sacroiliac joint (between the spine and pelvis).
Osteoarthritis of the spine is a breakdown of the cartilage of the joints and discs in the neck and lower back. Sometimes, osteoarthritis produces spurs that put pressure on the nerves leaving the spinal column. This can cause weakness and pain in the arms or legs. Osteoarthritis of the spine may cause stiffness or pain in the neck or back. It may also cause weakness or numbness in the legs or arms if it is severe enough to affect spinal nerves or the spinal cord itself. Usually, the back discomfort is relieved when the person is lying down.
Osteoarthritis is also known as degenerative joint disease. It is a condition in which the protective cartilage that cushions the tops of bones degenerates, or wears down. This causes swelling and pain. It may also cause the development of osteophytes, or bone spurs. Osteoarthritis of the spine may cause stiffness or pain in the neck or back. It may also cause weakness or numbness in the legs or arms if it is severe enough to affect spinal nerves or the spinal cord itself. Usually, the back discomfort is relieved when the person is lying down.
Lumbar Spine Arthritis. Arthritis in the Lower Spine. 1  Low back arthritis is the most common source of low back pain and symptoms. 2  This condition is related to degenerative changes of the facet joints and degenerative disc disease. Osteoarthritis of the Spine. 1  Degenerative arthritis of the spine is a common condition related to “wear and tear” or degeneration of the bones and soft tissue of the spine. 2  Arthritis most often occurs due to natural ageing process but may occur with rheumatoid arthritis and sometimes due to hereditary factors.
Osteoarthritis of the Spine and Disc Degeneration. Medical practitioners often refer to osteoarthritis in the spine as spinal arthritis, degenerative joint disease, or arthritis of the facet joints. Spinal arthritis is relatively common and is most likely to occur in people over age fifty
There are many types of arthritis, but the most common, most painful and most frequently limiting type of arthritis is osteoarthritis. “Osteo-” means “bone,” and this type of arthritis mostly affects the weight-bearing joints, such as the hips and knees, as well as joints in the hands, feet and spine. There are several types of joints in the body. The most common is the hinge joint.
Yes. The phrase degenerative changes in the spine refers to osteoarthritis of the spine. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Doctors may also refer to it as degenerative arthritis or degenerative joint disease. Osteoarthritis in the spine most commonly occurs in the neck and lower back. With age, the soft disks that act as cushions between the spine's vertebrae dry out and shrink. 
In some cases arthritis, a degenerative (gets worse over time) condition can cause spinal stenosis. Two forms of arthritis may affect the spine: osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis: 1  The most common form of arthritis. Arthritis. In some cases arthritis, a degenerative (gets worse over time) condition can cause spinal stenosis. Two forms of arthritis may affect the spine: osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis: 1  The most common form of arthritis. 2  Most often occurs in middle-aged and older people.
There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. 