The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America, and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain, and became the first states in the Union.
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 U.S. states and the 13 stripes represent the original Thirteen Colonies that rebelled against the British Crown and became the first states in the Union.
Of course, the 13 stripes of the US flag represent the original colonies that became the first states to declare independence. It was these states, minus Georgia, that convened for the First Continental Congress. Subsequent states accepted to the union were, eventually, represented on the flag by an additional star.
Literally, the thirteen stripes on the flag represent the thirteen original colonies. The fifty stars represent the fifty current states. Figuratively, the flag stands for freedom and democracy. It represents the unity of America, our common cause, and the hope for a better tomorrow.
What the American flag means: “The American flag is a symbol of what we stand for and our beliefs. When I see it flying, it reminds me of the fight Americans have had over the years.”. Name: Stephen Stephenson. Residence: Fairfield Twp. What the American flag means: “ It stands for country, liberty, freedom.
The blue field is called the union …  because of this. The 13 red and white stripes represent the 13 original colonies: Virginia, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maryland, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Georgia.
So the stripes on the American flag also represent Jesus being wounded for us so that we could be free from our sins. Concerning the stars on the flag, there is a verse in Daniel 12 about the righteous shining as the stars. Each of the 13 original states had a destiny to shine as the stars of heaven.
The stripes represent the 13 original colonies, the stars represent the 50 states, and the white means freedom, I believe. America was foundered as a Christian nation. The stripes come from a verse in the Bible in Isaiah 53.5- By his stripes we were healed.
The 50 stars represents the 50 states, the 13 stripes represents the 13 colonies. The white on the flag signifies purity and innocence. The red, for hardiness and courage, and the blue for perseverance and determination.