Steps for aadhar card name change via online mode: 1  Visit this portal https://ssup.uidai.gov.in/web/guest/update. 2  Now enter your AADHAAR Number and Text verification number. 3  Now click on send OTP. 4  You’ll receive an One Time Password on your mobile number. 5  Enter the Password and proceed. 6  Now select the Name field. 1 Visit this portal https://ssup.uidai.gov.in/web/guest/update. 2  Now enter your AADHAAR Number and Text verification number. 3  Now click on send OTP. 4  You’ll receive an One Time Password on your mobile number. 5  Enter the Password and proceed. 6  Now select the Name field. 7  Fill the fields in English as well as local language.
To make changes in Aadhar card online you have to follow these simple steps but before proceed please carry your registered mobile number with you and scanned copy of your self attested supporting documents in your PC, Laptop. 1  You need Proof of Identity documents to change the name in Aadhaar Card. 1 You need Proof of Identity documents to change the name in Aadhaar Card. 2  You need Proof of Address documents to change the address in Aadhaar Card. 3  You need Proof of birth certificate documents to change the DOB
To provide the facility of changing or updating the details of the people, UIDAI has launched Aadhaar Self Service Update Portal to make things more convenient. Using this portal, you can now modify your details like incorrect name, date of birth, gender or changed address online very easily. Later on, you can also check the update rquest status. To change your Aadhaar details follow these following simple steps: 1. Click here to go to the Aadhaar Self Service Update Portal. 2. Enter your 12-digit Aadhaar Number in the field and click on ‘Send OTP’
You can update the following data either by submitting your request Online or sending request through Post. 1  Name. 2  Gender. 3  Date of Birth. 4  Address. 5  Mobile Number. 
3.5k Views. yes, you can change your father name in your Aadhaar card with Father name verification document. how to update your father name in your aadhaar card. i have share all the points related to update father name or other details. How To Update Aadhaar Card Status Online: Name, Address & DOB. Written 25 Jul • View Upvotes. 
Aadhar card Name correction online mode-uidai.gov.in. UIDAI Aadhaar card is among the greatest proof of Identity and Residence in India. Residents can now online change the address in their Aadhar card if they are shifting to a new house or there is a mistake in the printed address. 1 Visit this portal https://ssup.uidai.gov.in/web/guest/update. 2  Now enter your AADHAAR Number and Text verification number. 3  Now click on send OTP. 4  You’ll receive an One Time Password on your mobile number. 5  Enter the Password and proceed. 6  Now select the Name field. 7  Fill the fields in English as well as local language.
Now you may proceed first click on the link to update aadhaar data: https://ssup.uidai.gov.in/web/guest/update. 1  It will ask your 12 digit aadhar number. 2  After filling aadhar number fill the verification text in the next column. 3  Now click on send OTP button. 1 You need Proof of Identity documents to change the name in Aadhaar Card. 2  You need Proof of Address documents to change the address in Aadhaar Card. 3  You need Proof of birth certificate documents to change the DOB
As we know that UIDAI has introduced Aadhaar Card self service update portal for changing or updating the information of the people. Aadhar Card Online Name Correction Change. Many details can be modified with the help of this portal such as incorrect name, date of birth, gender or changed address in online mode. 