1 Extra options in Windows 8: With Windows 8, you can choose between a traditional desktop view or the new metro menu. 2  But when you connect your laptop to a second desktop screen, you can actually have your proverbial cake and eat it too by running both at the same time. 1 It’s easy to do this in Windows 8 by accessing Devices in your charms bar and setting your computer to project to a second screen. 2  On Macs*, the connection of an external monitor is automatically recognized. 3  Set up the orientation of the monitors.
You can leave your email open on one monitor, for example, while composing a business document on the other. To get the monitors to show different things, each monitor must be attached to a separate video port on your computer. Step 1. Attach the second monitor to the extra VGA or DVI port on your computer. Most new desktops have two VGA or DVI video outputs, while laptops have an external video port that you can use with a second monitor. You can also use an HDMI port to connect a second display. Step 2. Right-click on the Windows desktop, and select Screen Resolution from the pop-up menu. 
If your display has a DVI connection, but your laptop only has a VGA connection, you need to use a video converter that converts VGA into DVI. Newer laptops may also have a DisplayPort, which can be used to connect external display devices that utilize a DisplayPort cable. Some laptops can output video to both the laptop and the external display, or to a single display at a time. Laptops with this feature can toggle between the two modes when the appropriate function key is pressed. Tip: Newer laptops and monitors may use a DVI or HDMI connection
In the middle section with both, the screen is blank and I found that if I send my pointer way to the right off my laptop screen, it will show up on the LCD, like the LCD were showing a dual screen to the right of my regular screen or something. If that doesn't fix it, try reducing the resolution on your LCD to a resolution setting that is lower and closer to that of the projector. Do this while connected to
1 On Macs*, the connection of an external monitor is automatically recognized. 2  Set up the orientation of the monitors. 3  In both PCs and Macs, you can opt whether you want the second screen to mirror your laptop screen or to act as an extension of the first. 1 It’s easy to do this in Windows 8 by accessing Devices in your charms bar and setting your computer to project to a second screen. 2  On Macs*, the connection of an external monitor is automatically recognized. 3  Set up the orientation of the monitors.
Connect the monitor, flat panel, or projector to the laptop's external video connection on the back of the computer. An example of a VGA connector for a computer monitor and VGA port on a laptop is shown to the right. Once connected, your laptop may automatically switch to the new external display, or you may be required to press a key or keys on the keyboard to switch to the external display. Some laptops can output video to both the laptop and the external display, or to a single display at a time. Laptops with this feature can toggle between the two modes when the appropriate function key is pressed. Tip: Newer laptops and monitors may use a DVI or HDMI connection
1 Set up the orientation of the monitors. 2  In both PCs and Macs, you can opt whether you want the second screen to mirror your laptop screen or to act as an extension of the first. 3  Access the Control Panel on your PC or System Preferences on your Mac. 1 It’s easy to do this in Windows 8 by accessing Devices in your charms bar and setting your computer to project to a second screen. 2  On Macs*, the connection of an external monitor is automatically recognized. 3  Set up the orientation of the monitors.
1 Get the right cable. 2  When you connect an external monitor to a laptop computer, you have to run a cable between the two devices. 3  Make sure that you get a monitor cable that matches the sockets on your laptop and monitor. 4  Tell your operating system you’re using a second screen. 1 It’s easy to do this in Windows 8 by accessing Devices in your charms bar and setting your computer to project to a second screen. 2  On Macs*, the connection of an external monitor is automatically recognized. 3  Set up the orientation of the monitors.