Origin of the name Joanne: Middle Latin feminine form of Joannes (God is gracious). The name is derived from the Greek Iōannes, a derivative of the Hebrew Yehanan, a short form of Yehohanan, which is from yehōhānān (Yahweh is gracious). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Joanne: | Edit. My name's Joanne and I like it. I get complimented on it quite a lot and it really fits my personality. I go by Jo or Joanne, I don't mind which. This name was popular in the 50's when I was in school. Most girls named Joanne were named after their dads (Joe)
Joanne is mainly used in English and it is of Hebrew origin. Joanne is a variant form of the English name Jane. Joanne is also a variant form of the English name Joan. A variant form of the name is the English and German shortening Jo. See also the related form, the English Joandra. Joanne is rare as a baby name for girls. At the modest peak of its usage in 1934, 0.420% of baby girls were named Joanne
In English the meaning of the name Joanne is: American Meaning: The name Joanne is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Joanne is: Latin Meaning: The name Joanne is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Joanne is: God is gracious. Feminine form of John (from the Latin Johanna).
More About English Name: Joanne. Joanne is a common given name for females, being a variant of Joanna, the feminine form of John and is derived from the Latin name Johanna and has a Hebrew meaning of God is Gracious. Joanne is the feminine form of John and has derived from the Latin name Johanna means God is gracious. Name is derived from the Latin name Johanna with the meaning in Hebrew of God is gracious. Joanne Name also appears in following Origin(s): Irish, Latin
Joanne is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Joanne. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1807 in baby name popularity for girls with 112 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Joanne Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Joanne has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Joanne to other names. Joanne is a variant spelling of Joanna. Variants of the name Joanne include Joann. Joanne has the diminutive (nickname) Joasia
Sometimes in modern English Joanne is reinterpreted as a compound of the two names Jo and Anne, and therefore given a spelling like JoAnne, Jo-Anne, or Jo Anne. The names Hannah, Anna, Anne, Ann are etymologically related to Joanne just the same: they are derived from Hebrew חַנָּה Ḥannāh 'grace' from the same verbal root meaning 'to be gracious'. In the United Kingdom, its popularity peaked during the 1970s, when it was frequently among the 10 most popular female names.
Look up Joanne in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Joanne (alternate spellings Joann, Jo Ann, Johann, Johanne, Jo-Ann, Jo-Anne) is a common given name for females, being a variant of Joanna, the feminine form of John; derived from the Latin name Johanna with the meaning in Hebrew of God is gracious. The names Hannah, Anna, Anne, Ann are etymologically related to Joanne just the same: they are derived from Hebrew חַנָּה Ḥannāh 'grace' from the same verbal root meaning 'to be gracious'. In the United Kingdom, its popularity peaked during the 1970s, when it was frequently among the 10 most popular female names.
However, the original name Joanna in ancient Greek and Latin is a single unit, not a compound. The names Hannah, Anna, Anne, Ann are etymologically related to Joanne just the same: they are derived from Hebrew חַנָּה Ḥannāh 'grace' from the same verbal root meaning 'to be gracious'. In the United Kingdom, its popularity peaked during the 1970s, when it was frequently among the 10 most popular female names.