1 Brush your dog with a flea comb once a week. 2  Use flea collars or flea-killing drops. 3  You can also talk to your vet about giving your dog oral medication that would make his blood poisonous to any flea that bites him. 4  Vacuum often, paying close attention to corners, crevices, and baseboards.
However, since we are using a flea comb to find and identify fleas and their remains, there are a few things that you can do to improve your success rate. 1  Unless your dog or cat has very short fur, the first thing that you should do is brush it with a normal sized flea comb to ensure that its fur is free of knots.
Get your flea comb and begin combing your pet. As you catch fleas in the comb, dip the comb into the bowl of dish soap and water, dumping the flea into the bowl. The dish soap will kill the flea. Do this daily until you no longer see any fleas.
While you may be panicked over the idea of a flea infestation on your dog or cat, realize that you will be able to get rid of them if you take safe and trusted methods. Furthermore, you also want to make sure that you use a method that will be natural and will not harm your pet. A flea comb is one of these methods.
1 While they kill all the fleas feeding on your pet, they do not prevent fleas. 2  Mix vinegar into their water. 3  Don't try this with cats, as their pH is much more sensitive than dogs'. 4  Mix a tablespoon of apple-cider vinegar into the dog's water bowl, or bathe the animal using water and vinegar.
Flea-comb your pet outside or, if you are going to comb your pet inside, place newspapers around the area to catch any fleas, flea dirt or flea eggs that may drop off your pet. Begin at your pet’s head, combing through the fur at the top of the head, chin, behind the ears and the neck.
Flea comb have fine teeth that remove adult fleas and eggs from fur. Most dogs and cats seem to enjoy this treatment. Here is how you can make use of a flea comb to help reduce the flea population on your dog or cat: Firstly, find a quiet place and make your dog or cat feels comfortable. Get ready a bowl of soapy water and put it next to you. Using the flea comb, starts combing through the fur coat of your dog or cat.
To check for flea dirt, briskly comb or rub a section of the hair on your dog’s back while your dog is sitting or lying on a white piece of paper. If your dog has fleas, black flecks that look like dirt (as a result, we use the term “flea dirt”) will fall onto the paper.