Potassium Sorbate won't necessarily stop an active fermentation. What it does is prevent the yeast from multiplying. It is better used as a stabilizer once most of the yeast has dropped out and fermentation is essentially finished. At this point you can then back sweeten if needed. 
Once you have done this you can then simply sweeten your wine to taste with a sugar mixture of your choice.It is important that the wine's fermentation process be complete before adding more sugar along with Potassium Sorbate and Sodium Bisulfite to a wine. And what the above tells us is that stopping a wine's fermentation in mid-stream when it is at the sweetness you like is not the answer for the average home wine maker. The most successful way for a home wine maker to have a sweet wine is to let it finish fermenting completely to where it is dry.
The last thing any winemaker wants is fermenting bottles of wine. The potassium sorbate does not stop or inhibit the fermenting in any way. What it does do is stop the yeast from reproducing themselves. During a typical fermentation the wine yeast will go through several regenerations. This is how a winery controls the sweetness of a wine, but there is a much, much easier way available to the home winemaker. It doesn't involve using potassium sorbate to stop the fermentation, and it doesn't involve going through all the steps laid out above. 1  Allow the fermentation to finish. 2  Rack the wine off the sediment. 3  Add sugar syrup to taste. 4  Add potassium sorbate and sulfite. 5  Bottle the wine right away
Another common option used by some winemakers is Potassium Sorbate. Generally, Potassium Sorbate is used for the purpose of sweetening wine. When it is used for the purpose it is commonly after the fermentation process has already been completed and you are ready to bottle your wine. The Potassium Sorbate is then added with sugar. The purpose of the Potassium Sorbate in this instance is to prevent the yeast from fermenting sugar that has just been added. When added prior to the end of the fermentation cycle; however, Potassium Sorbate will not kill the yeast; it only makes it sterile. 
The higher the alcohol content, the less potassium sorbate required to prevent fermentation. The amount of potassium sorbate in wine kits is enough to prevent fermentation in wine, but not in grape juice. For example if your wine is 10% alcohol, you need 0.20 grams/liter of potassium sorbate. When the alcohol content reaches 14%, you need only 0.07 grams/liter. I added the wrong packet. For the readers who do not make their own wine, potassium sorbate is added to the end of the wine fermentation to ensure that the fermentation is complete. It is a preservative that stops yeast from reproducing, and prevents any renewed fermentations from other yeasts or bacteria.
You have to add both to stop and prevent fermentation. K-meta kills and the K-sorbate prevent the yeast from reproducing. When added, the gravity will still fall a few points while the process occurs. There is plenty of information out there. Here is one post. Generally, Campden tablets are never used in beer, only in wine, mead, and sometimes cider. Potassium Sorbate also has instructions right on the bottle. Potassium sorbate, aka stabilizer, prevents renewed fermentation in wine that is to be bottled and/or sweetened.
So, many winemakers assume Potassium Sorbate can stop an active fermentation as well. But, nothing could be further from the truth.Potassium Sorbate does not kill the yeast at all, but rather it makes the wine yeast sterile. In other words, it impairs the wine yeast's ability to reproduce itself. And what the above tells us is that stopping a wine's fermentation in mid-stream when it is at the sweetness you like is not the answer for the average home wine maker. The most successful way for a home wine maker to have a sweet wine is to let it finish fermenting completely to where it is dry.
It is added to wines that have completed fermentation to prevent spoilage but also to prevent further fermentation of sugars added after fermentation such as when you back sweeten a wine. In the case of wine kits you would add potassium sorbate prior to adding the “f-pack” (grape juice concentrate). The second limitation of potassium sorbate is the length of time it is effective. Once added to wine it stays in the desireable form of sorbic acid only for a short time. Over time it breaks down into ethyl sorbate which can add notes of pineapple or celery to your wine.