The alleles that make up the genes of an organism, known collectively as a genotype, exist in pairs that are identical, known homozygous, or mismatched, known as heterozygous. When one of the alleles of a heterozygous pair masks the presence of another, recessive allele, it is known as a dominant allele. Understanding genetic dominance, from its discovery to its related variations, is an important step in the overall comprehension of the transmission and expression of genetic material. 
the situation in which two different alleles for a trait are expressed unblended in the phenotype of heterozygous individuals. Neither allele is dominant or recessive, so that both appear in the phenotype or influence it. Type AB blood is an example. 
A dominant gene will always be expressed when present, such as in the homozygous dominant genotype (RR), or heterozygous genotype (Rr). A recessive allele is only expressed wh … en the genotype is homozygous recessive (rr). Answer by Flying ninja. Confidence votes 7. The dominant gene will always cover up the recessive gene, although there are instances of codominance, in which both phenotypes will be displayed, because one gene is not completely dominant over the other. There is also what is called 'incomplete dominance', when the actual phenotype is somewhere between the two
1 If both alleles are dominant, it is called codominance. 2  The resulting characteristic is due to both alleles being expressed equally. 3  An example of this is the blood group AB which is the result of codominance of the A and B dominant alleles. 1 These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 2  Alleles can be either dominant or recessive. 3  Dominant alleles show their effect even if the individual only has one copy of the allele (also known as being heterozygous).
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. Often the dominant allele codes for a functional protein whereas the recessive allele does not. A classic example of dominance is the inheritance of seed shape, for example a pea shape in peas. If AA and aa individuals (homozygotes) show different forms of some trait (phenotypes), and Aa individuals (heterozygotes) show the same phenotype as AA individuals, then allele A is said to dominate or be dominant to or show dominance to allele a, and a is said to be recessive to A.
Different versions of a gene are called alleles. Alleles are described as either dominant or recessive depending on their associated traits. 1  Since human cells carry two copies of each chromosome they have two versions of each gene. 2  These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 1 These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 2  Alleles can be either dominant or recessive. 3  Dominant alleles show their effect even if the individual only has one copy of the allele (also known as being heterozygous).
Gene Dominance. If the fry has two different genes on the same locus of a chromosome (heterozygous), three outcomes may occur. 1) The most common one is that one of the genes dominates, or covers up, the other gene. Some gene are dominant over others, which are recessive. If you breed a guppy with a dominant gene with one with a recessive gene, all the off-springs will show the dominant genes
1 For example, the allele for brown eyes is dominant, therefore you only need one copy of the 'brown eye' allele to have brown eyes (although, with two copies you will still have brown eyes). 2  If both alleles are dominant, it is called codominance. 1 These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 2  Alleles can be either dominant or recessive. 3  Dominant alleles show their effect even if the individual only has one copy of the allele (also known as being heterozygous).
In Rr individuals the R allele masks the presence of the r allele, so these individuals also have round peas. Thus, allele R is dominant to allele r, and allele r is recessive to allele R. This use of upper case letters for dominant alleles and lower case ones for recessive alleles is a widely followed convention. If AA and aa individuals (homozygotes) show different forms of some trait (phenotypes), and Aa individuals (heterozygotes) show the same phenotype as AA individuals, then allele A is said to dominate or be dominant to or show dominance to allele a, and a is said to be recessive to A.