The Knowhow. When your fridge freezer first arrives, you'll need to let it stand upright for around four hours before turning it on if it's been transported horizontally. If your fridge freezer has been transported upright you'll only need to wait for 30 minutes to an hour. Some fridge freezers have a light that lets you know when you can start storing food. If unsure, check the inside temperature of the fridge and freezer every two hours with a thermometer. Once you've reached the correct temperature, you can start to move all your food and drinks over. (Refer to your manufacturer's manual for details)
5. Milk jugs filled with water: If you'd like to reuse, instead of recycle, your milk jugs, this is a great use for them. How to Fill Your Freezer for Energy Efficiency 1. Defrost and dry your freezer. 2. Move what food items you have towards the front and sides so that you can quickly grab them when you need them
When your freezer is full, there is less room for warmer air to take up, and the items that are in there help to cool down any air that does sneak in. So keeping it full means less energy used. What to Use to Fill Your Freezer for Energy Efficiency. 1. Newspaper: You can move food items towards the outer sides of your freezer and stuff the interior spaces with newspaper. Milk jugs filled with water: If you'd like to reuse, instead of recycle, your milk jugs, this is a great use for them. How to Fill Your Freezer for Energy Efficiency 1. Defrost and dry your freezer. 2. Move what food items you have towards the front and sides so that you can quickly grab them when you need them
Are items regularly in and out of your freezer, or is it the black hole of food in your house? If you were to clean it out, would you find food from the last century in there? If it just a repository for ice cream? How can you use your freezer -- and your deep freeze -- more effectively? 
Putting room temperature food into a new freezer demands more energy to freeze than previously frozen or thoroughly chilled items. Placing foods into freezers that are not pre-chilled promotes the formation of ice crystals, which can damage the fibers in meat and poultry or make soups and sauces thin and watery. 
New Freezer-when can I fill it up. I bought a new freezer and I turned it on about 4pm yesterday on the super freeze that it tells you to before you can start to use it. The ice cubes are all nice and solid though. I asked a couple of people whilst I was out how long you had to run it in for, it tells you to let it settle for 3 hours before turning it on which I know is the gases but it could give an idea of how long its going to take before i can fill it up.
This Site Might Help You. RE: How long does a new freezer have to be on for to work properly? It&#39;s a chest freezer and i want to use it right away how long after i plug in can i use it? If you don't have the manual, go on to the manufacturer's web site and download one. If you can't do either of these, wait for 24 hours after moving the freezer for the refrigerant to settle, then turn it on and leave for a couple of hours before loading it.