Gout is a kind of arthritis. It can cause an attack of sudden burning pain, stiffness, and swelling in a joint, usually a big toe. These attacks can happen over and over unless gout is treated. Over time, they can harm your joints, tendons, and other tissues. Gout is most common in men. Gout is caused by too much uric acid in the blood
Gout is a painful type of arthritis commonly felt in a big toe. Gout is caused by a buildup of uric acid in the blood known as hyperuricemia (HI-per-yu-Ru-SEEM-ee-uh). A gout attack happens when uric acid forms crystals in the joints, causing inflammation and pain. As your uric acid level rises, so does the chance for gout and gout attacks. Over time, these attacks, or flares, can become more severe, last longer, and happen more often.
Gout causes attacks of painful inflammation in one or more joints. It is a type of arthritis (although it is very different to the more common rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis). The pain of a gout attack can be severe. Gout is caused by a chemical in the blood called uric acid (urate). Uric acid is usually harmless and is made in the body. Most is passed out with the urine and some from the gut with the stools (faeces). In people with gout the amount of uric acid in the blood builds up.
It may also present as tophi, kidney stones, or urate nephropathy. It is caused by elevated levels of uric acid in the blood. The uric acid crystallizes, and the crystals deposit in joints, tendons, and surrounding tissues. Clinical diagnosis may be confirmed by seeing the characteristic crystals in joint fluid. Gout presenting in the metatarsal-phalangeal joint of the big toe: Note the slight redness of the skin overlying the joint. Gout can present in a number of ways, although the most usual is a recurrent attack of acute inflammatory arthritis (a red, tender, hot, swollen joint).
Also called gouty arthritis, gout is a painful form of arthritis caused by too much uric acid in the body. The painful flare-ups may be concentrated in the big toe (a symptom known as podagra), as well as swelling and pain in the ankles, knees, feet, wrists or elbows. 
Gout (also known as podagra when it involves the big toe) is a medical condition usually characterized by recurrent attacks of acute inflammatory arthritis —a red, tender, hot, swollen joint. The metatarsal-phalangeal joint at the base of the big toe is the most commonly affected (approximately 50% of cases). Gout presenting in the metatarsal-phalangeal joint of the big toe: Note the slight redness of the skin overlying the joint. Gout can present in a number of ways, although the most usual is a recurrent attack of acute inflammatory arthritis (a red, tender, hot, swollen joint).
1 Gout is a form of arthritis caused by excess uric acid in the bloodstream. 2  The symptoms of gout are due to the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints. 3  Gout most commonly affects the joint in the base of the big toe. 4  Gout attacks often occur without warning in the middle of the night. When affecting this area, the condition can also be referred to as podagra. The condition is characterized by sudden and severe pains, redness and tenderness in the joints, most commonly in the base of the big toe. When affecting the big toe, gout
Gout is a kind of arthritis caused by a buildup of uric acid crystals in the joints. Uric acid is a breakdown product of purines that are part of many foods we eat. An abnormality in handling uric acid and crystallization of these compounds in joints can cause attacks of painful arthritis, kidney stones, and blockage of the kidney filtering tubules with uric acid crystals, leading to kidney failure. The small joint at the base of the big toe is the most common site for an attack. Other joints that can be affected include the ankles, knees, wrists, fingers, and elbows. In some people, the acute pain is so intense that even a bed sheet touching the toe causes severe pain.
Here are some key points about gout. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Gout is a form of arthritis caused by excess uric acid in the bloodstream. 2  The symptoms of gout are due to the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints. 3  Gout most commonly affects the joint in the base of the big toe. When affecting this area, the condition can also be referred to as podagra. The condition is characterized by sudden and severe pains, redness and tenderness in the joints, most commonly in the base of the big toe. When affecting the big toe, gout
Gout is a type of arthritis where crystals of sodium urate form inside and around joints. The most common symptom is sudden and severe pain in the joint, along with swelling and redness. The joint of the big toe is commonly affected, but it can develop in any joint. Introduction. 