1. A PhD takes twice as long as a bachelor's degree to complete. The average student takes 8.2 years to slog through a PhD program and is 33 years old before earning that top diploma. By that age, most Americans with mere bachelor's degree are well into establishing themselves professionally. 2. Professors will exploit you. About 40 percent of PhD candidates borrow money to obtain their degrees, with the average debt nearly $37,000, according to FinAid.org. This debt would be on top of any loans a student assumed as an undergraduate. 7. You probably won't get tenure.
Report Abuse. I read in one of the graduate admission guide published by Princeton Review that the average age of PhD students at the time of their start is around 27, depending on the discipline. So the average age at time of graduation is about mid-thirties. 
The average graduate student today is 33 years old. Students in doctoral programs are a bit older. However, the average graduate student in the late 1990’s was just under 33 years. In fact, according to the Council of Graduate Schools, the age of graduate students has remained static over the last few decades. Most students take longer than that to earn undergraduate degrees. In fact, according to Forbes, only 58 percent of students graduate with a bachelor’s degree within six years. Many don’t graduate at all. After all that time, and all that debt, many people just want to get out of the education system for a while.
Average age to start a PhD varies between disciplines and depends on whether or not the student holds a masters degree or not. I was made to believe that the vast majority start a PhD between the ages of 22-28 in most fields. Time to complete can vary widely. A masters degree is typically limited to 1-5 years, with most taking 2-3. A PhD following a masters is typically limited to 3-8 years, while a direct to PhD requires 4-8. He was 20 years old when he graduated. Noam Elkies finished his PhD in math at Harvard in 2 years, at age 20. 6 years later, he became the youngest tenured professor in the history of Harvard, beating even Larry Summers and Alan Dershowitz.
Getting a doctorate is intellectually rewarding. Unfortunately, it doesn't tend to be financially rewarding, at least not in the short term. Most PhD students live on their earnings from teaching and research assistantships or other low-paying employment. So, your starving student days may not be behind you. 
Those who work a full time job and sometimes an extra part time job can take up to 6-8 years to complete their bachelor's because of their limited time and limited cashflow. So if one who started at age 18, the average age of these people is around 24-26. 25% of Americans have a Bachelor's degree. But because many can now acquire the BA more conveniently, the average age is harder to determine. An educated guess would be around 33. Most students take 4 years to complete them although it is not uncommon to finish in as little as 3 years or as many as 5. The abov … e is a general answer, but statistics from the College Board tell us that the average time to earn a bachelor's degree is 4.7 years (2008).
In my case, I was 28 when I started my PhD and 33 when I finished. There were a handful of people older than me in the class, in their mid-thirties. Probably the median was about 25. Even though I wasn’t that much older, my (tenured) advisor was two weeks younger than me. 
It depends on the field-in one of my fields it's common to have a master's and work experience before coming to get a Ph.D, whereas in the other it's more common to come from undergrad or after maybe 1-3 years working as a lab assistant (and so the students in that program are closer to my age). He was 20 years old when he graduated. Noam Elkies finished his PhD in math at Harvard in 2 years, at age 20. 6 years later, he became the youngest tenured professor in the history of Harvard, beating even Larry Summers and Alan Dershowitz.