Vastus lateralis. The vastus lateralis muscle is located on the side of the thigh. This muscle is the largest of the quadriceps group (often called quads) which also includes the rectus femoris, the vastus intermedius, and the vastus medialis. Collectively, the quadriceps muscle is the largest in the human body and its purpose is to extend the knee. The specific task of the vastus lateralis muscle is to extend the lower leg and allow the body to rise up from a squatting position. On the upper end, the muscle attaches to the femur; on the lower end it attaches to the patella, or kneecap
The vastus medialis (/ˈvaestəs ˈvæstəs/ ˌmɛdiˈeɪlɨs /or ˈvaestəs/) (ˈvæstəs ˌmɛdiˈaelɨs ˌmɛdiˈælɨs vastus internus) or teardrop muscle is an extensor muscle located medially in the thigh that. Extends the knee the vastus medialis is part of the. quadriceps muscle group 1 The fibers converge onto the inner (medial) part of the quadriceps femoris tendon and the inner (medial) border of the patella. 2  The obliquus genus muscle is the most distal segment of the vastus medialis muscle.
We undertook this study to examine the relationship between change in vastus medialis cross-sectional area (CSA) and knee pain, tibial cartilage volume, and risk of knee replacement in subjects with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis (OA). Increase in vastus medialis cross-sectional area is associated with reduced pain, cartilage loss, and joint replacement risk in knee osteoarthritis.
1 The obliquus genus muscle is the most distal segment of the vastus medialis muscle. 2  Its specific training plays an important role in maintaining patella position and limiting injuries to the knee. 3  With no clear delineation, it is simply the most distal fibers of the vastus medialis. 1 The fibers converge onto the inner (medial) part of the quadriceps femoris tendon and the inner (medial) border of the patella. 2 
Hamstrings. The hamstrings are three muscles that run down the back of the leg to cross the knee joint. They work together to bend or flex the knee. The tendons of the semimembranosus and the semitendinosus insert on the medial side of the knee. These two muscles aid in the knee’s slight internal rotation. Other Important Knee Muscles. While the hamstrings and quadriceps are the muscles that cross the knee, they don’t act alone. The sartorius aids in flexion and internal rotation of the knee. The gracilis, mainly known for hip adduction, also contributes to flexion. The popliteus serves an especially important function.
1 It is the most medial of the vastus group of muscles, the others being vastus intermedius and vastus lateralis. 2  The vastus medialis arises medially along the entire length of the femur, and attaches with the other muscles of the quadriceps in the quadriceps tendon. 1 The fibers converge onto the inner (medial) part of the quadriceps femoris tendon and the inner (medial) border of the patella. 2  The obliquus genus muscle is the most distal segment of the vastus medialis muscle.
Vastus medialis. The vastus medialis muscle is a part of the quadriceps muscle group, located on the front of the thigh. It is the most medial, or inner, of the quadriceps muscles. It extends the entire length of the thigh. The portion of the muscle that is just above the knee is sometimes referred to as the vastus medialis obliquus, or VMO. This muscle is used to extend the leg at the knee and to stabilize the patella, which is also known as the kneecap.
Furthermore the rectus femoris muscle forces a flexion of the hip joint. To a small extent the vastus medialis muscle is involved in the inward rotation and the vastus lateralis muscle in the outward rotation of the knee joint. 1 Distally its fibers end in the common insertion tendon (quadriceps tendon). 2  Vastus medialis muscle: runs spirally around the shaft from the linea aspera and intertrochanteric line of the femur and merges with the quadriceps tendon for the most part.
1 The vastus medialis is a muscle present in the anterior compartment of thigh, and is one of the four muscles that make up the quadriceps muscle. 2  It is the most medial of the vastus group of muscles, the others being vastus intermedius and vastus lateralis. 1 The fibers converge onto the inner (medial) part of the quadriceps femoris tendon and the inner (medial) border of the patella. 2  The obliquus genus muscle is the most distal segment of the vastus medialis muscle.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The vastus intermedius (/ˈvaestəs ˈvæstəs.ˌɪntərˈmiːdi/) (əs) cruraeus arises from the front and lateral surfaces of the body of the femur in its upper-two, thirds sitting under the rectus femoris muscle and from the lower part of the lateral intermuscular. septum 