Top States. The statistics bureau reports that Massachusetts is the highest paying state for vet assistants in the nation, as of May 2011, and that workers in the state earn $31,230 a year on average. Workers in Delaware, Maine and Connecticut earn $29,310 or more on average. The statistics bureau reports that Massachusetts is the highest paying state for vet assistants in the nation, as of May 2011, and that workers in the state earn $31,230 a year on average
Workers with more experience and education often command higher annual salaries than the average. Statistics bureau income data show that the top 10 percent of veterinary assistants in terms of annual income make more than $34,970 a year, as of May 2011 and that the bottom 10 percent of workers made less than $16,970. The statistics bureau reports that Massachusetts is the highest paying state for vet assistants in the nation, as of May 2011, and that workers in the state earn $31,230 a year on average.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Veterinary Assistant in the United States is $28,458 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Veterinary Assistant in the United States are expected to make less than $28,458. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $28,458. The annual salary for someone with the job title Veterinary Assistant may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers look after animals in laboratories, animal hospitals, and clinics. They care for the well-being of animals by performing routine tasks under the supervision of veterinarians, scientists, and veterinary technologists and technicians. Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers play a large role in helping veterinarians and scientists with surgery and other minor procedures. They may prepare equipment and pass surgical instruments and materials to veterinarians during surgery.
Caring for animals is something pet owners do for free, but workers in the field of veterinary care help animals for living. Veterinary assistants are support workers who perform a variety of routine tasks such as feeding animals, cleaning cages and performing diagnostic tests. The statistics bureau reports that Massachusetts is the highest paying state for vet assistants in the nation, as of May 2011, and that workers in the state earn $31,230 a year on average.
It’s important to understand that a veterinary assistant is not the same as veterinary technician. In general, vet techs are people who have received formal training, certification and licensing. A veterinary assistant is someone who usually has experience working in the animal care field but is not a licensed vet tech. 
For veterinary assistants who enjoy their work and want to earn advancement, training as a veterinary technician or technologist is another career option. They actively assist the veterinarian in providing care to animals, in much the same way nurses and diagnostic technicians support human doctors. They can also choose to be certified by AALAS, just as laboratory animal caregivers are. Salaries for technicians and technologists have an average annual income of $31,570, well above the $24,430 earned by veterinary assistants.
Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers are responsible for many daily tasks, such as feeding, weighing, and taking the temperature of animals. Other duties may include giving medication, cleaning cages, and providing nursing care before and after surgery and other medical procedures. Veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers play a large role in helping veterinarians and scientists with surgery and other minor procedures. They may prepare equipment and pass surgical instruments and materials to veterinarians during surgery.
Since vet assistants do not need education beyond a high school diploma, pay tends to be lower than that for other veterinary workers who need more education. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the average annual income of veterinary assistants and laboratory animal caretakers is $24,430, as of May 2011. The statistics bureau reports that Massachusetts is the highest paying state for vet assistants in the nation, as of May 2011, and that workers in the state earn $31,230 a year on average.