The eGFR is used to screen for and detect early kidney damage and to monitor kidney status. It is performed by ordering a creatinine test and calculating the estimated glomerular filtration rate. The National Kidney Foundation has recommended that it be calculated automatically every time a creatinine test is done. A creatinine test and eGFR may be ordered any time that a health practitioner wants to evaluate a person's kidney function as part of a health checkup or if kidney disease is suspected.
Renal function, in nephrology, is an indication of the state of the kidney and its role in renal physiology. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) describes the flow rate of filtered fluid through the kidney. Creatinine clearance rate (CCr or CrCl) is the volume of blood plasma that is cleared of creatinine per unit time and is a useful measure for approximating the GFR. 
The eGFR is a test that is used to assess how well your kidneys are working. The test estimates the volume of blood that is filtered by your kidneys over a given period of time. The test is called the estimated glomerular filtration rate because the glomeruli are the tiny filters in the kidneys. If these filters do not do their job properly then the kidney is said to have reduced or impaired kidney function. The eGFR test involves a blood test which measures a chemical called creatinine. Various different diseases, conditions and medicines can affect the function of the kidneys. The estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) does not diagnose any kidney disease but is a test
GFR—glomerular filtration rate is the best test to measure your level of kidney function and determine your stage of kidney disease. Your doctor can calculate it from the results of your blood creatinine test, your age, race, gender and other factors. 
This is either a blood test or a urine test that looks for changes in how your kidneys function. Your kidneys have tiny filters called glomeruli. The filters help remove waste from your blood. Your glomerular filtration rate is the rate at which your blood is filtered each minute. 
A blood test for eGFR or estimated glomuler filtration rate is a measurement used to check for the stage of renal failure that a person is experiencing. This is a test that is quite complicated and requires a trained nephrologist to perform. An eGFR blood test is used whenever there is suspicion of a kidney disease. This is usually the case in patients who are suffering from diabetes or from hypertension for a prolonged period of time.
GFR-glomerular filtration rate is the best test to measure your level of kidney function and determine your stage of kidney disease. Your doctor can calculate it from the results of your blood creatinine test, your age, body size and gender. Your GFR tells your doctor your stage of kidney disease and helps the doctor plan your treatment. If your GFR number is low, your kidneys are not working as well as they should. The earlier kidney disease is detected, the better the chance of slowing or stopping its progression
The eGFR can be determined, with no extra testing, at the same time that a blood sample is sent for a creatinine measurement. The National Kidney Foundation has recommended that it be calculated automatically every time a creatinine test is done. A creatinine test and eGFR may be ordered any time that a health practitioner wants to evaluate a person's kidney function as part of a health checkup or if kidney disease is suspected.
In this article. Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. The kidneys ' ability to handle creatinine is called the creatinine clearance rate, which helps to estimate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) -- the rate of blood flow through the kidneys. 
The inside of a glomerulus showing the filter. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a test used by physicians and other medical professionals to see if the kidneys are working correctly. 