Distribution and Habitat. 1  Arctic wolf is the inhabitant of Canadian arctic, northern areas of Greenland, and are known occupy some parts of Alaska. 2  These wolves bear a range of its habitat 70° North latitude and higher. 3  They are believed to have appeared in North America some two million years before. 1 These wolves bear a range of its habitat 70° North latitude and higher. 2  They are believed to have appeared in North America some two million years before. 3  Whenever arctic wolves find a den, they make one or two chambers for raising young and for food.
Here are some of the most interesting Arctic wolf facts such as Arctic wolf habitat, diet, reproduction, and its behavior in the wild. The arctic wolf (Canis lupus arctos), also known as white wolf or polar wolf, is a subspecies of the gray wolf that belongs to the family of Canidae. 1 These wolves bear a range of its habitat 70° North latitude and higher. 2  They are believed to have appeared in North America some two million years before. 3  Whenever arctic wolves find a den, they make one or two chambers for raising young and for food.
The gray wolf can range from 60 to 175 pounds and reach a length of 6 feet from muzzle to tail. Because their natural range consisted of most of the Northern Hemisphere, gray wolves are highly adaptable and live in a wide range of habitats. Spring and fall temperatures range from mild to severe, 30 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit is common. During the spring, the gray wolf's prey is becoming more active, creating a better chance of a meal for the pack. Breeding occurs during spring, anywhere from January to April depending on how far north the wolves are.
The most common type of wolf is the gray wolf, or timber wolf. Adult grey wolves are 4 to 6.56 feet (120 to 200centimeters) long and weigh about 40 to 175 pounds (18 to 79 kilograms). Just like its name, the gray wolf typically has thick gray fur, although pure white or all black variations exist. They tend to live in the remote wilderness, though red wolves prefer to live in swamps, coastal prairies and forests. Many people think wolves only live in colder climates, but wolves can live in temperatures that range from minus 70 to 120 degrees F (minus 50 to 48.8 degrees C), according to the San Diego Zoo.
Wolf Habitat and Distribution. Wolves are very diverse animals, which is why they have a habitat that is very spread out around the world. It isn’t true that they only live in very thick forests and come out at night. Wolves have been identified in many areas that you may not ever imagine them being able to survive. 
The gray wolf or grey wolf (Canis lupus) also known as the timber wolf, or western wolf, is a canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America and Eurasia. It is the largest extant member of its family, with males averaging 43–45 kg (95–99 lb), and females 36–38.5 kg (79–85 lb). 
Habitat and Range. Wolves can thrive in a diversity of habitats from the tundra to woodlands, forests, grasslands and deserts. Today, gray wolves have populations in Alaska, northern Michigan, northern Wisconsin, western Montana, northern Idaho, northeast Oregon and the Yellowstone area of Wyoming. The average size of a wolf's body is 3-5 feet long. Their tails are usually 1-2 feet long. Females typically weigh 60-100 pounds, and males weigh 70-145 pounds.
Summer. For most of the gray wolves' range in the United States, summer temperatures range from temperatures in the 70s to 80s. This is not the case for Alaska, and also not the case for New Mexico and Arizona's population of Mexican wolves. Spring and fall temperatures range from mild to severe, 30 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit is common. During the spring, the gray wolf's prey is becoming more active, creating a better chance of a meal for the pack. Breeding occurs during spring, anywhere from January to April depending on how far north the wolves are.
Size: Wolves vary in size depending on where they live. Wolves in the north are usually larger than those in the south. The average size of a wolf's body is 3-5 feet long. Their tails are usually 1-2 feet long. Females typically weigh 60-100 pounds, and males weigh 70-145 pounds.
Size: The red wolf is of an intermediate size between a gray wolf and a coyote. They are about 4 feet long and stand about 26 inches at the shoulder. Red wolves weigh anywhere between 45-80 pounds, with males averaging about 60 pounds and females about 50 pounds. Habitat and Range. Equally at home in forests, swamps, and coastal prairies, red wolves can thrive in a wide range of habitats. Historically the red wolf ranged from southeastern Texas to central Pennsylvania. Today the only place red wolves can be found in the wild is in eastern North Carolina Albemarle Peninsula.