Distributions that are not taxable, such as distributions that you roll over to another qualified retirement plan are not subject to this 10% additional tax. For more information on rollovers, refer to Topic 413. There are certain exceptions to this 10% additional tax. The following six exceptions apply to distributions from any qualified retirement plan: 1  Distributions made to your beneficiary or estate on or after your death. The additional tax is equal to 10% of the portion of the distribution that is includible in income. Generally, early distributions are those you receive from a qualified retirement plan or deferred annuity contract before reaching age 59½. The term qualified retirement plan means:
IRA Discussion Forum. I have a client who took an early distribution from his IRA and therefore is subject to the 10% penalty. He is unemployed and qualifies for the exception when the distribution is used to pay for health insurance premiums. 
(iStockPhoto). Withdrawals from individual retirement accounts before age 59 1/2 typically trigger a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty. However, there are several exceptions to the penalty if you meet certain circumstances or spend the money on specific purchases. Here are 10 ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty: 
You may qualify to take a penalty-free withdrawal if you meet one of the following exceptions: 1  You become totally disabled. 2  You are in debt for medical expenses that exceed 7.5 percent of your adjusted gross income. 3  You are required by court order to give the money to your divorced spouse, a child, or a dependent. 
This list is not exhaustive. You can take other types of distributions without paying a 10 percent tax penalty. For example, if you roll an IRA account into an employer retirement plan, you generally won t pay the 10 percent penalty tax, nor will you pay the 10 percent penalty tax for a transfer incident to a divorce. And if you contribute more than the law allows, you can take out the excess plus earnings without penalty if you do so by the tax-return due date. Go to http://www.irs.gov/ or talk with your tax professional to determine if your distribution qualifies for an exception to the 10 percent penalty tax.
An early withdrawal is an IRA withdrawal taken before you reach age 59 ½, which is subject to a 10% penalty tax in addition to ordinary income taxes. Below are eight situations which may qualify you for an exception to the 10% penalty tax on an IRA early withdrawal. There are no exceptions to paying ordinary income tax on the amount withdrawn. 1. 1 If you inherit an IRA from a non-spouse, even if the IRA owner was under age 59 1/2, you will not have to pay the penalty tax on amounts withdrawn. 2  You will still have to include any IRA withdrawal in your adjusted gross income.
1 You will still have to include any IRA withdrawal in your adjusted gross income. 2  If you inherit an IRA from a spouse, and you choose to treat it as your own IRA, then any IRA early withdrawal you receive will be subject to the 10% penalty tax. 1 If you inherit an IRA from a non-spouse, even if the IRA owner was under age 59 1/2, you will not have to pay the penalty tax on amounts withdrawn. 2  You will still have to include any IRA withdrawal in your adjusted gross income.
To discourage the use of retirement funds for purposes other than normal retirement, the law imposes a 10% additional tax on certain early distributions from certain retirement plans. The additional tax is equal to 10% of the portion of the distribution that is includible in income. Generally, early distributions are those you receive from a qualified retirement plan or deferred annuity contract before reaching age 59½. The term qualified retirement plan means:
Unfortunately, the government imposes a 10 percent penalty on any withdrawals before age 59 1/2. Some early distributions qualify for a waiver of that penalty -- for instance hardships, higher education expenses and buying a first home. Now that you're properly chastised, if you do need to take a withdrawal, some hardship situations qualify for a penalty exemption from an IRA or a 401(k) plan. Note that penalty-free does not mean tax-free. All traditional IRA and 401(k) withdrawals require that you pay taxes at ordinary income rates.