Profile. Sappi Ltd. produces coated fine paper and chemical cellulose. The Company also produces uncoated graphic and business papers, premium quality packaging papers and a range of specialty papers. Sappi has production operations in North America, Europe, and Southern Africa and sells its products internationally. 
Though Sappi's North American past is deeply rooted in our nation's papermaking heritage, our future will always be marked by our global presence  reaching four continents. Today we are the preeminent producer of coated fine paper in North America  with a production capacity of 1.3 million tons of paper annually. We are also responsible for many industry firsts, such as the first paper coated and calendered on two sides, first dull coated paper, and the first mill branded LOE paper.
We know the myriad of choices you face when specifying a paper stock can seem overwhelming to the uninitiated. That's why Sappi is committed to simplifying the specifying process and we do that by first determining the basic criteria that meet your coated paper needs. Our Paper Selector gives you all the info you need to get the specifications you’re looking for when choosing a paper stock.
Sappi Warren Release Papers. The use of Sappi Warren Release Papers in the production of coated fabrics, often referred to as synthetic leather, dates back to the 1940’s. A casting line does not rely on pressure or compressive forces to mechanically emboss a texture. 
The largest paper mill in Minnesota is now churning out a type of pulp used to make textiles. In a hopeful sign for the state’s forest industries, Sappi Fine Paper in Cloquet announced this week that its $170 million conversion to making pulp for clothing has been successful. The mill in September reached its daily goal of producing 1,050 tons of what’s known as chemical cellulose. Sappi, a South African firm, already has a plant in South Africa producing chemical cellulose for textiles. But the conversion in Cloquet is the first of its kind in Minnesota, and the first large-scale commitment to a new type of forest product in the region.
A closer look at Sappi. Sappi North America's roots can be traced back as far as 1854 to the S.D. Warren Company, who owned and operated the Westbrook mill and several other U.S. paper mills, up until its acquisition by Sappi North America in 1995. Today we are the preeminent producer of coated fine paper in North America  with a production capacity of 1.3 million tons of paper annually. We are also responsible for many industry firsts, such as the first paper coated and calendered on two sides, first dull coated paper, and the first mill branded LOE paper.
South African Pulp and Paper Industries Limited was founded in 1936. The company is now known as Sappi and is headquartered in Johannesburg, It produces and sells commodity paper products, pulp, chemical cellulose and forest and timber products for Southern Africa and export markets. In 2013, it was the world's largest producer of dissolving wood pulp. On 29 September 2008, Sappi purchased two paper mills in Finland, one in Switzerland and one in Germany from the M-real company. In the US, Sappi closed its Muskegon, Michigan plant in 2009, which was founded in 1899 by the Central Paper Company. In 2011 Sappi announced closure of their Swiss production site
Westbrook Mill. Sappi North America (SNA) is one of the leading producers and suppliers of coated fine paper, pulp, specialized cellulose and release papers in the United States. SNA is comprised of multiple mills including two mills in Maine, Somerset (Skowhegan) and Westbrook. SNA is the leading North American producer of coated fine paper used in premium magazines, catalogues, books and high-end print advertising. Headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, SNA is a division of Sappi Limited, a global company headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa.