Among the types of anemia that can be inherited are: 1  Sickle-cell anemia. 2  People with sickle-cell anemia have a gene that causes the blood protein hemoglobin to form abnormally. Some people are born with genetic abnormalities that can cause certain types of anemia, including sickle cell anemia, thalassemia, and Fanconi anemia.
1 Sickle-cell anemia. 2  People with sickle-cell anemia have a gene that causes the blood protein hemoglobin to form abnormally. 3  As a result, red blood cells are produced in a sickle shape. “ 4 This can cause painful episodes called crises, and even strokes and heart attacks,” Murray says. Some people are born with genetic abnormalities that can cause certain types of anemia, including sickle cell anemia, thalassemia, and Fanconi anemia.
Causes of decreased production include iron deficiency, a lack of vitamin B12, thalassemia and a number of neoplasms of the bone marrow among others. Causes of increased breakdown include a number of genetic conditions such as sickle cell anemia, infections like malaria and some autoimmune diseases among others. Anemia is the most common disorder of the blood with it affecting about a quarter of people globally. Iron-deficiency anemia affects nearly 1 billion. In 2013 anemia due to iron deficiency resulted in about 183,000 deaths – down from 213,000 deaths in 1990.
Anemia is a condition that develops when your blood lacks enough healthy red blood cells or hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a main part of red blood cells and binds oxygen. If you have too few or abnormal red blood cells, or your hemoglobin is abnormal or low, the cells in your body will not get enough oxygen. Symptoms of anemia -- like fatigue -- occur because organs aren't getting what they need to function properly. Inherited disorders can affect your body’s production of red blood cells. Thalassemias cause the body to make fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin -- and may be treated with blood transfusions. Among people with hemolytic anemia, red blood cells are destroyed and cleaned out of the bloodstream too quickly.
1 People with sickle-cell anemia have a gene that causes the blood protein hemoglobin to form abnormally. 2  As a result, red blood cells are produced in a sickle shape. “ 3 This can cause painful episodes called crises, and even strokes and heart attacks,” Murray says. Some people are born with genetic abnormalities that can cause certain types of anemia, including sickle cell anemia, thalassemia, and Fanconi anemia.
Fanconi anemia is a condition that affects many parts of the body. People with this condition may have bone marrow failure, physical abnormalities, organ defects, and an increased risk of certain cancers. The major function of bone marrow is to produce new blood cells. Fanconi anemia is most often inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
In people with this form of anemia, red blood cells are abnormally small (microcytic) and pale (hypochromic). The symptoms of iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia can include tiredness (fatigue), weakness, pale skin, and other complications. Iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia is one of many types of anemia, which is a group of conditions characterized by a shortage of healthy red blood cells.