Sateen is a cotton fabric with a luster resembling that of satin. It is used for sheets and apparel and is known for its soft, smooth texture. The fabric is quite useful and durable, but it can also be more expensive than some other fabrics when produced with a high thread count. Long-fiber, combed or carded cotton is used to make sateen. The cotton is then mercerized to bring out a sheen. Mercerization involves soaking the fiber in a bath of sodium hydroxide (such as lye) and then in an acid bath. The result makes the cotton fiber stronger and more easily dyed
Lining sateen is one version of this fabric, although it's not always made with cotton. When used for lining jackets or wraps, it is usually a heavy, luxurious, yet sturdy fabric. It may be made from silk, wool, nylon, polyester, or any other fiber that would produce the type of lustrous fabric required. Long-fiber, combed or carded cotton is used to make sateen. The cotton is then mercerized to bring out a sheen. Mercerization involves soaking the fiber in a bath of sodium hydroxide (such as lye) and then in an acid bath. The result makes the cotton fiber stronger and more easily dy
Sateen has been a popular fabric since the early 1900s. Being made of cotton, it is much cheaper than silk satin and is also more durable, as well as being machine washable. In the early 20th century, the material was often used for women's undergarments because of its durability and smooth feel. Long-fiber, combed or carded cotton is used to make sateen. The cotton is then mercerized to bring out a sheen. Mercerization involves soaking the fiber in a bath of sodium hydroxide (such as lye) and then in an acid bath. The result makes the cotton fiber stronger and more easily dyed
Sateen sheets are 100 percent cotton sheets with a high thread count and a lustrous sheen. They are woven from combed, carded, or long-fiber cotton threads that are then mercerized, meaning they're soaked in lye and then in acid. Tweet. Deciding which type of luxury sheets to purchase is easier when you have the facts. Sateen sheets feel soft when new and have sheen to them, while Egyptian cotton sheets soften over time with use. Both are made from cotton and have much to offer, making the choice one of budget and personal taste.
Sateen is a fabric made using a satin weave structure but made with spun yarns instead of filament. The sheen and softer feel of sateen is produced through the satin weave structure. Warp yarns are floated over weft yarns, for example four over and one under. (In a weft-faced satin or sateen, the weft yarns are floated over the warp yarns). Standard plain weaves use a one-over, one-under structure. 
If a fabric is formed with a satin weave using filament fibres such as silk, nylon, or polyester, the corresponding fabric is termed a satin, although some definitions insist that the fabric be made from silk. If the yarns used are short-staple yarns such as cotton, the fabric formed is considered a sateen. Many variations can be made of the basic satin weave including a granite weave and a check weave. Satin weaves, twill weaves, and plain weaves are the three basic types of weaving by which the majority of woven products are formed.
For example, sheets can be 100 percent Egyptian cotton percale, 100 percent Egyptian cotton sateen, blended cotton percale or sateen, or poly-cotton percale or sateen. But pay attention to the packaging, as some manufacturers label their product as Egyptian cotton even though it was not grown there. 