Official Academic Transcripts. An Official Academic Transcript shows your program, the results for each course studied, as well as your final qualification (after conferral). Please note, official academic transcripts include all courses undertaken whilst at The University of Queensland
Most US universities will require applicants to submit a transcript. A transcript is a document listing your academic qualifications and marks during the final four years of school (US grades 9 - 12, UK Years 10 - 13: ie GCSEs, A-levels, IB, BTEC, etc). A school report is information about your school to provide context to the student's application. It is required for those students using the Common Application but would be a helpful addition to any application alongside the transcript. See our guide for tips on what information you may wish to include.
An AUT University academic transcript is a formal and complete record of the results and qualifications you have gained while studying. A transcript produced before graduation will document all confirmed results at the date of issue. It is printed on unique transcript paper and embossed to verify authenticity. Academic transcripts are often requested by employers and accrediting bodies. We strongly recommend that you don't order a transcript until you have your FINAL results notice. Graduates from the year 2000 onwards. You can place an online order by using the Online Finance – Sundry Items option on Arion (see below).
The following documentation is acceptable. 1  Official transcripts including the college or university registrar's (or other authorized official's) signature, seal or stamp. 2  A photocopy of the transcript(s) is acceptable as long as the signature, seal or stamp is clearly legible. If transcripts or proof of education are required at time of application, the following documentation is acceptable as proof of education. 1  Official transcripts. 2  Uno
Re: what is the meaning of transcripts......marksheets or the degree. « Reply #1 on: February 27, 2009, 12:54:02 am ». Yes, a degree is the one which says you have that qualification but a transcript is the one showing details of your study at the university such as marks, credits and number of semesters registered. 
Qualifications pending: The transcript or mark sheet is a list of subjects studied and the grades obtained to date. If you are at a university that does not supply transcripts or mark sheets, please ask your academic referees to comment in detail on your progress, including your marks obtained in all years of study. 
Transcripts. An official transcript, detailing examinations taken and results achieved, is issued automatically to all graduating students and sent to their contact addresses as held on PORTICO. You can request copies of your transcript from the UCL Transcript Shop. You will be required to register with the Transcript Shop to order your transcript(s) if you have not already done so. You will receive an email to your registered email address when your transcript order has been received by UCL.
Transcript of Qualifications. Transcripts are provided to undergraduate and taught postgraduate students who require evidence of modules studied and grades attained in the University. They are normally used by students to apply for graduate courses or employment. Summary of Results. Summary of Results are usually provided on request to students who require evidence of modules studied and grades attained so far in the University but do not need an official transcript.
How to get an academic transcript. You receive a complimentary transcript when you receive your AUT qualification parchment (not applicable for Certificates of Proficiency, COP). Additional transcripts can be purchased for $25 per copy. They need to be either picked up or mailed out. We strongly recommend that you don't order a transcript until you have your FINAL results notice. Graduates from the year 2000 onwards. You can place an online order by using the Online Finance – Sundry Items option on Arion (see below).