This article is about a form of political sanction. For the routine business practice, see divestment. Disinvestment refers to the use of a concerted economic boycott to pressure a government, industry, or company towards a change in policy, or in the case of governments, even regime change. There was also a less well-publicized movement to apply the strategy of disinvestment to Northern Ireland, as some prominent Irish-American politicians sought to have state and local governments sell their stock in companies doing business in that part of the United Kingdom.
Divestment is a form of retrenchment strategy used by businesses when they downsize the scope of their business activities. Divestment usually involves eliminating a portion of a business. Firms may elect to sell, close, or spin-off a strategic business unit, major operating division, or product line. Divestment is commonly the consequence of a growth strategy. Much of the corporate downsizing of the 1990s has been the result of acquisitions and takeovers that were the rage in the 1970s and early 80s.
DIVESTMENT STRATEGIES. Firms may pursue a divestment strategy by spinning off a portion of the business and allowing it to operate as an independent business entity. Firms may also divest by selling a portion of the business to another organization. Divestment is commonly the consequence of a growth strategy. Much of the corporate downsizing of the 1990s has been the result of acquisitions and takeovers that were the rage in the 1970s and early 80s.
Points: 20. Strategies of DisinvestmentThe basic idea behind disinvestment is to sell the shares of the government in the public sector enterprises to external players. As mentioned earlier, the earliest shares were sold to financial institutions coming under the government itself. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Disinvestment'. 1. A company or government organization will divest an asset or subsidiary as a strategic move for the company, planning to put the proceeds from the divestiture to better use that garners a higher return on investment. 2. A company or government organization will divest an asset or subsidiary as a strategic move for the company, planning to put the proceeds from the divestiture to better use that garners a higher return on investment
Divestment Strategies. Divestment strategy involves the sale or liquidation of a portion of business or a major division, profit centre or SBU. Divestment is usually a part of a rehabilitation or restructuring plan and is adopted when a turnaround has been attempted but has proved unsuccessful. Reasons for divestment: A divestment strategy may be adopted due to various reasons: 1. A business that had been acquired proves to be mismatch and can not be integrated within the company. Similarly, a project that proves to be inviable in the long-term is divested.
DEFINITION of 'Divestment'. The process of selling an asset. Also known as divestiture, it is made for either financial or social goals. Divestment is the opposite of investment. Next Up. Generally you'd just say that you are selling an asset. The term divestment is more appropriate however in the following contexts: 1) A change in corporate strategy-a firm might say that they are divesting a particular subsidiary to focus on their core business.
DEFINITION of 'Disinvestment'. 1. The action of an organization or government selling or liquidating an asset or subsidiary. Also known as divestiture. 2. A reduction in capital expenditure, or the decision of a company not to replenish depleted capital goods. A company or government organization will divest an asset or subsidiary as a strategic move for the company, planning to put the proceeds from the divestiture to better use that garners a higher return on investment.