Addition of water-soluble polymers reduces bleeding and improves the homogeneity of mortar or concrete by controlling segregation of fresh mixtures (Soshiroda 1986). Also, a better dispersion of carbon fibers in the cement paste is realized (Chen 1997).
The amount of carbonation is significantly increased in concrete with a high water-to-cement ratio, low cement content, short curing period, low strength, and highly permeable or porous paste. Carbonation is highly dependent on the relative humidity of the concrete.
Concrete stains are a mixture of water, hydrochloric acid, and acid-soluble metallic salts. Because of concrete's porous qualities, they penetrate and react chemically in the concrete. Concrete stains become a permanent part of
Two methods were used to determine the ‘free’ and ‘water soluble’ chloride ions concentration in four differing strength grade concretes. Each grade of concrete had varying concentration of Cl − admixed as NaCl.
The problem of efflorescence, or the deposit of water-soluble salts on the surfaces of masonry, stucco or concrete, is an old one, and one that has been studied and reported on as early as 1877.
Efflorescence is a crystaline deposit on surfaces of masonry, stucco or concrete. It is whitish in appear­ance, and is sometimes referred to as whiskers. Efflorescence has been a problem for many years, and is a topic of much controversy.
When you mix dry concrete with water it is a similar consistency to mud, but when it dries it is hard and never again to be a muddy... show more You mix water with dirt, you get a muddy substance. When it dries it is hard yet it can be dissolved with water and returned to a muddy consistency.
Efflorescence is a crystalline deposit of water-soluble salts left on the surface of masonry and concrete as the water evaporates. Efflorescence is a partner of Sweating Slab Syndrome. This article is intended to address only efflorescence in concrete floors and more specifically, secondary efflorescence.
2. WATER-SOLUBLE POLYMERS IN CEMENT MORTAR AND CONCRETE Polymer modification of mortars or concrete by adding water-soluble polymers to the fresh mixture is less frequently applied, although recent studies list some advantages. Water-soluble polymers are generally used at very low polymer-cement ratios.