Best Answer: If you're using whitening toothpaste, at least a few weeks... but you won't see much of a difference. Here are some natural whiteners if you're trying to get your pearly whites back :). Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/how_5211576_whiten-t... 
In-office bleaching provides the quickest way to whiten teeth. With in-office bleaching, the whitening product is applied directly to the teeth. These products can be used in combination with heat, a special light, or a laser. Results are seen in only one, 30- to 60-minute treatment.
A RealAge answered. How long you will need to use teeth whitening trays depends on the stains you are trying to bleach and how white you want your teeth to become. On average, you wear trays for a few hours each day for one to two weeks. But some people with severe stains may need to wear the trays for longer than that
The total amount of time that's needed for a case can be reduced by either: 1  Using a higher-concentration whitener. - 2  Most manufactures make their product in a range of concentrations. 3  We've seen carbamide peroxide products ranging from 10 to 44%. 4  Maximizing the length of your treatment sessions. Systems that utilize a 10% carbamide peroxide whitening gel and custom-made bleaching trays (the type of system typically dispensed by dentists, and the one referred to on our pages) typically call for: 1  Once-a-day treatments. 2  With each session lasting 2 to 4 hours, or possibly over night.
Best Answer: Probably going to take a while... Most whitening products have peroxide in them which works faster.. DON'T put peroxide in your baking soda mix... And don't gargle it.. That would just be dumb... It would probably be more worth your while to use whitening toothpaste that already has a mixture in it. Hello, using the baking soda as a tooth whitener is not designed to bleach your teeth. Baking soda is basically an oxygenator that breaks down organic substances that can discolor the tooth's surface, just as it removes stains from laundry items.
1 In-office, professionally applied tooth whitening products contain hydrogen peroxide in concentrations ranging from 15% to 43%. 2  Mouthpiece trays. 3  With dentist-supervised at-home bleaching products, your dentist will take an impression of your teeth and make a mouthpiece tray that is customized to exactly fit your teeth. With in-office bleaching, the whitening product is applied directly to the teeth. These products can be used in combination with heat, a special light, or a laser. Results are seen in only one, 30- to 60-minute treatment.
A RealAge answered. The length of time it takes to whiten your teeth will vary with the amount of discoloration of your teeth. For treatments performed by your dentist, it generally takes 30-90 minutes per visit to make your teeth brighter. It may require as little as one visit and up to ten visits over a period of time. 
Teeth whitening is not permanent. People who expose their teeth to foods and beverages that cause staining may see the whiteness start to fade in as little as one month. Those who avoid foods and beverages that stain may be able to wait one year or longer before another whitening treatment or touch-up is needed. With in-office bleaching, the whitening product is applied directly to the teeth. These products can be used in combination with heat, a special light, or a laser. Results are seen in only one, 30- to 60-minute treatment.