Sean /sean/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Sean) is pronounced shon. It is of Irish and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Sean is God is gracious. Variant of John, from French Jean. Spread outside of Ireland only in the 20th century. Occasionally used in hyphenated names. 
Meaning of the Irish name Sean. MEANING: Irish form of John meaning “”God’s gracious gift.”” Shane is a very popular variant of the name in Northern Ireland in memory of Shane O’Neill whose forces won notable victories over the armies of Queen Elizabeth 1st in the sixteenth century. GENDER: Boy | Male. IRISH NAME: Sean. 
The name Sean is of Celtic/Gaelic origin, and it means God is Gracious . It's a name commonly given to both boys and girls. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Sean is a baby boy name. The name Sean comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Sean is: Irish variant of John: God is gracious; gift from God.
Anglicisations of the name include Sean, Séan, Sean, Shane, Shayne, Shaine, Shon, shaun And. Shawn the Name shane comes from The Ulster english pronunciation of the, name whereas the Names, Shaun, shawn Or sean come from the way it is pronounced In, Munster, leinster And. connacht Origin [edit]. The name originated in the Irish language. It is an adaption of the Anglo-Norman name Johan/John. In 1066, the Norman duke, William the Conqueror conquered England, where the Norman French name Jahan / Johan (pronounced [dʒɛˈan]) came to be pronounced Jean, and spelled John.
Irish Meaning: The name Sean is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Sean is: Irish God is gracious; gift from God. American Meaning: The name Sean is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sean is: Irish God is gracious; gift from God.
Meaning of Sean. Irish name. In Irish, the name Sean means-god is gracious.The name Sean originated as an Irish name. The name Sean is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Irish Name Meaning-god is gracious. Origin-Ireland. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Gender: Male. Usage: Sean, of Hebrew origin, is a very popular first name. It is more often used as a boy (male) name. People having the name Sean are in general originating from France, Ireland, Malta, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Sean across the world, see John, Sean. seán 
Comments and insights on the name Sean: | Edit. John is listed here as a common brother's name for Sean. Please do not name multiple children in the same family Sean, John, and Ian. It's the same name. I don't agree re Please do not name multiple children in the same family Sean, John, and Ian. 