Bronchoconstriction is the constriction of the airways in the lungs due to the tightening of surrounding smooth muscle, with consequent coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath. 1  1 Physiology. Postganglionic parasympathetic fibers will release acetylcholine (ACh) next to the Reissessen muscle, a smooth muscle layer surrounding the bronchi. These smooth muscle cells have M3 type muscarinic receptors on their membrane.
bron·cho·spasm. Contraction of smooth muscle in the walls of the bronchi and bronchioles, causing narrowing of the lumen and obstructing breathing. sudden constriction of the bronchial tubes due to contraction of the involuntary smooth muscle in their walls. spasm. 1. a sudden involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles. 2. a sudden, transitory constriction of a passage, canal, or orifice; spasms usually occur when the nerves supplying muscles are irritated, and are often accompanied by pain. A vasospasm is a rare type that occurs in a blood vessel
Physiology [edit]. 1. Bronchoconstriction is due to an activation of parasympathetic nervous system. Postganglionic parasympathetic fibers will release acetylcholine (ACh) next to the Reissessen muscle, a smooth muscle layer surrounding the bronchi. These smooth muscle cells have M3 type muscarinic receptors on their membrane.
Bronchoconstriction or bronchospasm is the medical term that refers  to the contraction of the smooth muscle in the walls of the bronchi  and bronchioles that tighten and sq … ueeze the airway shut. 35 people found this useful. Alexander Rowan. 170,837 Contributions. 
Definition. Bronchospasm is an abnormal contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi, resulting in an acute narrowing and obstruction of the respiratory airway. A cough with generalized wheezing usually indicates this condition. Bronchospasm is a chief characteristic of asthma and bronchitis. Description. Bronchospasm is a temporary narrowing of the bronchi (airways into the lungs) caused by contraction of the muscles in the lung walls, by inflammation of the lung lining, or by a combination of both. This contraction and relaxation is controlled by the autonomic nervous system.
In skeletal and cardiac muscle cells, these proteins are organized in sarcomeres, with thin and thick filaments. The … internal organization of a smooth muscle cell is very different: • A smooth muscle fibre has no T tubules, and the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) forms a loose network throughout the sarcoplasm. The actin is then pulled (slides) across the myosin. Unlike skeletal muscle, there is no neuromuscular junction or troponin in smooth muscle. Instead, contraction is started by the release of neurotransmitter vesicles (membrane bound containers) into the space between the cells.
Contraction of smooth muscle in the walls of the bronchi and bronchioles, causing narrowing of the lumen. Compare: bronchoconstriction. /bron·cho·spasm/ (brong´ko-spazm) bronchial spasm; spasmodic contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi, as in asthma. spasm. 1. a sudden involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles. 2. a sudden, transitory constriction of a passage, canal, or orifice; spasms usually occur when the nerves supplying muscles are irritated, and are often accompanied by pain. A vasospasm is a rare type that occurs in a blood vessel
Bronchospasm is an abnormal contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi, resulting in an acute narrowing and obstruction of the respiratory airway. Description. Bronchospasm is a temporary narrowing of the bronchi (airways into the lungs) caused by contraction of the muscles in the lung walls, by inflammation of the lung lining, or by a combination of both. This contraction and relaxation is controlled by the autonomic nervous system.