The preferred temperature for many is between 35°F and 38°F. TEMPERATURE DISPLAY: To change the temperature display from Fahrenheit to Celsius, simultaneously press and hold the FREEZER and REFRIGERATOR buttons for approximately 5 seconds. To convert back to Fahrenheit, repeat the procedure. FREEZER TEMPERATURE: Shows the set temperature of the freezer in Celsius (°C) or Fahrenheit (°F). ICE PLUS BUTTON: Pressing this button once will activate the feature and increase both freezing and ice-making capabilities by up to 20%. When ICE PLUS is on, the icon on the display will light up and stay on for 24 hours
Avoid the Danger Zone: Answered by daniel. In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
When you find the right setting, stop. The preferred temperature for many is between 35°F and 38°F. TEMPERATURE DISPLAY: To change the temperature display from Fahrenheit to Celsius, simultaneously press and hold the FREEZER and REFRIGERATOR buttons for approximately 5 seconds. To convert back to Fahrenheit, repeat the procedure. Get to know your Control Panel. For the top/bottom freezer model fridges, you will find the control panel in the refrigerator and the freezer. REFRIGERATOR TEMPERATURE: Shows the set temperature of the refrigerator in Celsius (ºC) or Fahrenheit (°F). FREEZER TEMPERATURE: Shows the set temperature of the freezer in Celsius (ºC) or Fahrenheit (°F)
ppart/iStock/Getty Images. Many LG refrigerators include an ice and water dispenser on the front of the refrigerator. The ice and water dispenser also has a control panel that, in addition to controlling the dispenser settings, allows you to adjust the internal temperature of the refrigerator. Press and hold the Freezer and Refrigerator buttons simultaneously. Release the Freezer and Refrigerator buttons when the temperature display changes from Fahrenheit to Celsius, which takes approximately five seconds.
Locate the Freezer and Refrigerator buttons on the ice and water dispenser control panel. Press and hold the Freezer and Refrigerator buttons simultaneously. Release the Freezer and Refrigerator buttons when the temperature display changes from Fahrenheit to Celsius, which takes approximately five seconds.
Ideal Temperature Settings. A: The ideal temperature setting for your refrigerator is 3º C (38º F). The ideal temperature setting for your freezer is -19º C (-2º F) To adjust the temperature, follow these steps: 1. Verify the display is not in child lock mode. 2. 
1 Answer from this member: To change the temperature readout back to Fahrenheit press the Freezer Temp and Refrigerator Temp buttons at the same time and hold for 5 seconds or more. 
The FDA advises that you should keep the temperature of your fridge between 32 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit, preferably right in the middle of that range, at, say, 35 degrees. Set the temperature at 35, and you avoid the risk of frozen food (that’s what the freezer’s for!) and you avoid the risk of spoilage. 