The Crook County Courthouse in Prineville was built in 1909 and remodeled in the early 1990s. Steins Pillar in the Ochoco Mountains. (Photo No. croDA0063a). Steins Pillar in Crook County is one of several monoliths towering over the rugged Ochoco Mountains. Crook County is situated in the geographic center of Oregon. It has been reduced from its original size of 8,600 square miles to 2,991 square miles by the creation of Jefferson County in 1914 and Deschutes County in 1916. The current boundaries were established in 1927.
The Prineville-Crook County Chamber of Commerce is the oldest Chamber in Central Oregon. It was formed in 1919 and incorporated in 1952. This 330+ member Chamber offers business assistance, business referrals, tourist and vacation information, relocation information and community information. 
Crook County Fairgrounds. The Crook County Fairgrounds is located at the south end of Prineville in Central Oregon. We have great facilities for events including a race course, camping and Wi-Fi infrastructure. 
Crook County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the population was 20,978. The county seat is Prineville. The county is named after George Crook, a U.S. Army officer who served in the American Civil War and various Indian Wars. Crook County was established on October 9, 1882, by an act of the Oregon State Legislature. The county was named after General George Crook, a veteran of various battles against the indigenous peoples of Eastern Oregon in the middle of the 19th Century.
Prineville is a city in and the county seat of Crook County, Oregon, United States. It was named for the first merchant located in the present location, Barney Prine. Prineville is located on the Crooked River at the mouth of Ochoco Creek, 14 miles (23 km) northwest of the Prineville Reservoir. During the Miocene and Oligocene, great basaltic flows swept through the area.
Welcome to the Official Government Website for Crook County, Oregon. Crook County is located in the geographic center of Oregon in an area of outstanding natural beauty. The county's economy is driven by agriculture, construction, forest products, livestock, manufacturing, recreation and tourism. In 2007 the county celebrated its 125th anniversary. 
The city was incorporated by the Oregon Legislative Assembly on October 23, 1880, and obtained its first high school in 1902. Long the major town in central Oregon, Prineville was snubbed in 1911 when the railroad tycoons James J. Hill and Edward H. Harriman bypassed the city as they laid track south from The Dalles. Prineville is located on the Crooked River at the mouth of Ochoco Creek, 14 miles (23 km) northwest of the Prineville Reservoir. During the Miocene and Oligocene, great basaltic flows swept through the area.
The largest body of water in Crook County is the Prineville Reservoir. The county has been reduced from its original size of 8,600 square miles (22,000 km 2) by the creation of Jefferson County in 1914 and Deschutes County in 1916. The present boundaries were established in 1927. Crook County was established on October 9, 1882, by an act of the Oregon State Legislature. The county was named after General George Crook, a veteran of various battles against the indigenous peoples of Eastern Oregon in the middle of the 19th Century.
Crook County is located in the geographic center of Oregon in an area of outstanding natural beauty, with a population of approximately 26,845. The county’s economy has traditionally been driven by agriculture, construction, forest products, livestock, manufacturing, recreation and tourism. Dan McNary, Crook County High School teacher, had the pleasure of taking 20 Agricultural Science and Technology students to the Central Oregon District FFA Soils Evaluation event held in Moro on Wednesday, October 7, 2015. This group did very well … Continue reading. And, we are excited you are here.