Liatris spicata has a warm bitterish taste and used as a local application for sore throat in the treatment of gonorrhoea. L. squarrosa, called 'the rattlesnake' because the roots are used to cure rattlesnake bite, a handsome plant with very long narrow leaves, and large heads of lovely purple flowers. L. scariosa also used for snake-bite and recognized by the involucral scales which are margined with purple. ---Habitat---North America: cultivated in England. ---Description---Herbaceous perennial plant, composite distinguished by a naked receptacle, oblong, imbricated, involucre, and a feathery pappus, fleshy basal leaves obolanceolate, terminating in a flattened stalk. Leaves of stem clasping at base. The leaves are used to flavour tobacco
Re: Deer Tongue. Wed, April 27, 2005 - 5:40 PM. About Sweet Grass, there is a website, (they are temporarily out of stock) they sell the plants...They donate a portion of their proceeds to Both Veterans and Native American schools. This fern is thin and long with a smooth, leathery surface. There are many ferns in the Deer's Tongue family.
Deer's tongue refers to a type of fern. This fern is thin and long with a smooth, leathery surface. There are many ferns in the Deer's Tongue family. Here, in Hawai'i, we have Deer's Tongue growing wild in the forest, as well as the indigenous Lau'ae fern and types of mule ferns, all have the same characteristics of smooth and leathery leaves and all release a lovely vanilla-like scent upon drying
Native Florida Wildflowers. This is a blog that celebrates the beauty and diversity of Florida's wildflowers-with a bit of a focus on growing these plants in a home landscape. Some of the wildflowers featured here are grown and sold through Hawthorn Hill Native Wildflower and Rare Plant Nursery
Deer's Tongue: Vanilla Leaf, wild vanilla, trilissia odorata. Parts used-leaves. Herbaceous perennial plant distinguished by a naked receptacle, oblong, imbricated involucre, and a feathery pappus, fleshy basal leaves obolanceolate, terminating in a flattened stalk. Leaves clasping at the base. This fern is thin and long with a smooth, leathery surface. There are many ferns in the Deer's Tongue family.
That's not to say the deer tongue leaves we collected, hasn't been ingested by a great number of humans. In fact, back before manufacturers started using artificial ingredients, deer tongue was a significant flavoring agent in tobacco. The smell comes from the chemical coumarin, which is found in the leaves of the plant. When fresh and green, the leaves have little or no smell. But as they dry, they become very pungent, almost overpowering. One leaf is sufficient to perfume a whole room.
Deer's Tongue Leaf (Trilisa Odoratissima). This plant is sometimes called vanilla leaf, or wild vanilla, because of the distinct smell of vanilla when the leaves are crushed. Trilissia odorata is known for its diuretic effects, and was also used for sore throats and gonorrhea. The leaves are used to give tobacco a vanilla flavor. Their perfume is largely due to Coumarin, which can be seen in crystals on the upper side of the smooth spatulate leaves. Coumarin has blood-thinning, anti-fungicidal and anti-tumor activities.
DEER'S TONGUE is used by many folks for Luck in Love Affairs and in Court Cases. The plant's leaf is thought to resemble a tongue and for this reason, folks who follow the so-called Doctrine of Signatures ascribe to it the mysterious power of granting eloquence and pleasing speech to anyone who carries it. 
Rhododendron minus exists as two botanical varieties, carolinianum and minus. Both are commonly called Carolina rhododendron while variety carolinianum is sometimes called punctatum or deer tongue laurel in mountain communitites. Minus has the smallest leaves and smallest flowers of the native rhododendron species. 