Definition of RAMPION. : a European bellflower (Campanula rapunculus) having an edible tuberous root used with the leaves as a salad. ADVERTISEMENT.
Rampion and Rapunzel. Rampion is a wild plant whose residency can be found on the roadsides, hedge banks, and open pastures in the country of England; in past times, it was often grown by Englanders in their gardens for their own personal use. Rampion is also called Rapunzel which is also widely known as a Brothers Grimm fairytale.In the fairytale, Rapunzel was being grown in a bed in a beautiful garden by a powerful enchantress who was feared by all.
rampion (ˈraempɪən). 1  ˈræmpɪən a campanulaceous, Plant campanula, rapunculus native To europe And, asia that has clusters of bluish flowers and an edible white tuberous root used in.  salads Definitions. 1  a campanulaceous plant, Campanula rapunculus, native to Europe and Asia, that has clusters of bluish flowers and an edible white tuberous root used in salads.
The Rampion was originally a cargo ship in the American Republic. However, when Thorne turned nineteen, he stole the ship and removed his ID chip. Eighteen months later, Thorne is found and captured in the Commonwealth, and sentenced to six years for attempting to steal a second-era jade necklace. The Rampion is the name of a 214 Rampion, Class 11.3 cargo ship. Originally owned by the American Republic, the ship was stolen by Carswell Thorne, who then claimed it as his own.
Phyteuma is a genus of flowering plants in the family Campanulaceae, native to Europe and Morocco. The common name is Rampion, a name shared with the related plant Campanula rapunculus. Rampion features prominently in some versions of the fairy tale Rapunzel. In the version collected by the Brothers Grimm, it is said that rapunzel is the name given to a local variety of rampion. The species are herbaceous perennial plants, growing to 5–90 cm tall. 
• RAMPION (noun). The noun RAMPION has 1 sense: 1. bellflower of Europe and Asia and North Africa having bluish flowers and an edible tuberous root used with the leaves in salad. Familiarity information: RAMPION used as a noun is very rare.
rampion. noun. 1  A biennial Eurasian plant (Campanula rapunculus) having bell-shaped lilac flowers and an edible root. 2  Any of various perennial plants of the genus Phyteuma, having dense heads or spikes of bell-shaped blue or violet flowers.
RAMPION. Rampion (Campanula rapunculus). The edible root resemble a small turnip and can be use in a similar manner. If you are familiar with the Grimm brothers' fairy tale about Rapunzel ('Rapunzel, let down your golden hair'), you might know that 'Rapunzel' is also another name for this edible plant. Rampion is a hardy biennial plant native to southern Europe, with edible white roots, up to 10 inches long. The roots are eaten raw in salads, frequently with beets and celery, or cooked like turnips.
Trivia Edit. 1  The Rampion's name is from how, in a popular variation of the original fairy tale, the rampion plant was what Rapunzel's mother asked her husband to steal, which ultimately led to the enchantress taking Rapunzel in exchange. The Rampion is the name of a 214 Rampion, Class 11.3 cargo ship. Originally owned by the American Republic, the ship was stolen by Carswell Thorne, who then claimed it as his own.