Pay the county sheriff to serve the other party. The county sheriff will serve the other party in person at his workplace or home. You can typically request the sheriff service directly at the sheriff's office or at the court clerk's office. How to Find Someone to Serve Court Papers. Court papers -- such as a summons, notice to appear, or a judgment --...
Serve the papers on time. The deadline for serving papers can vary by state, but usually, you must serve the papers to the respondent at least eight days before your court date. 1  In some instances, you may need to serve the papers up to 30 days before the court date. Pass the papers directly to the respondent. The server must give a copy of your court papers to the respondent in person. He or she must walk up to the respondent, state, These are court papers, and hand the respondent copies of all the papers related to your case. 1  The respondent may refuse to accept the papers.
Normally, papers must be served in the state where you filed your lawsuit. Assuming the person you want to sue resides or does business in your state, you can serve papers anyplace in the state. However, you can't sue someone in a Massachusetts court and serve papers on them in Oklahoma. An exception involves suits having to do with motor vehicle accidents or lawsuits against out-of-state owners of real estate located in-state. Many states allow out-of-state service on this type of claim. A minority of states, allow papers to be served by first-class mail. The states differ, however, on what you must do if the defendant doesn't answer your complaint within the time limit. Check with your court clerk to see if this method is available in your area.
Instructions. Contact a process server to serve the other party. A process server is licensed as an officer of the court, and allowed to serve legal documents issued by the court within a particular state. How to Find Someone to Serve Court Papers. Court papers -- such as a summons, notice to appear, or a judgment --...
Found This Helpful. Court papers -- such as a summons, notice to appear, or a judgment -- are typically served to a particular party. Proof of service is required to show that the party was actually served in a timely and legal manner. Typically, you can't serve the other party yourself. How to Find Someone to Serve Court Papers. Court papers -- such as a summons, notice to appear, or a judgment --...
1 In some instances, you may need to serve the papers up to 30 days before the court date. 2  For instance, if you serve papers using substituted service to someone outside of the county, you must do so at least 30 days before the court date. 3  Check with the court when you file your petition to find out what your deadline is. Pass the papers directly to the respondent. The server must give a copy of your court papers to the respondent in person. He or she must walk up to the respondent, state, These are court papers, and hand the respondent copies of all the papers related to your case. 1  The respondent may refuse to accept the papers.
1 Not be a party to the case; 2  Serve the paperwork on the other side in the time require; 3  Fill out a proof of service form that tells the court whom they served, when, where, and how; and. 4  Return the proof of service to you so you can file it with the court. 1 You can find out the name of the corporation's agent for service at the website of the California Secretary of State. 2  If you are suing a city, serve the city clerk or agent authorized to accept service. 3  You can find the address and phone number in the government pages of your phone book.
Certified Mail. In the majority of states, you can serve papers by sending them to the defendant via certified mail with a return receipt requested. In some states, service by certified (or registered) mail is one among several ways you may serve papers. A minority of states, allow papers to be served by first-class mail. The states differ, however, on what you must do if the defendant doesn't answer your complaint within the time limit. Check with your court clerk to see if this method is available in your area.
Proof of Service. If you have asked the court clerk to serve your papers by certified mail, you need do nothing else. The court clerk sends out the certified mail for you, and the signed post office receipt comes back directly to the clerk if service is accomplished. It's as simple as that. A minority of states, allow papers to be served by first-class mail. The states differ, however, on what you must do if the defendant doesn't answer your complaint within the time limit. Check with your court clerk to see if this method is available in your area.