High Cholesterol or Triglycerides Treatment. Simvastatin is used for treating high cholesterol in those people who cannot lower cholesterol through lifestyle changes alone. Simvastatin can lower total cholesterol and LDL ( bad cholesterol ) and increase HDL ( good cholesterol ). These Simvastatin uses are as follows: 1  Treatment of high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 2  Treatment of high triglycerides. 3  Prevention of heart or blood vessel disease (known as cardiovascular disease).
Stop using simvastatin and call your doctor at once if you have: 1  unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness; 2  confusion, memory problems; 3  fever, unusual tiredness, and dark colored urine; 4  pain or burning when you urinate; 5  swelling, weight gain, little or no urinating; 6  increased thirst, increased urination, hunger, dry mouth, fruity breath ... DRUG DESCRIPTION. ZOCOR (simvastatin) is a lipid-lowering agent that is derived synthetically from a fermentation product of Aspergillus terreus. After oral ingestion, simvastatin, which is an inactive lactone, is hydrolyzed to the corresponding β-hydroxyacid form.
simvastatin. Zocor ® Therapeutics A lipid-lowering HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor used in hypercholesterolemia, to improve lipid profiles and ↓ mortality from CAD, DM, TIAs, stroke Adverse effects Constipation, flatulence, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, myalgia, muscle weakness. • concurrent use of simvastatin in dosages exceeding 20 mg/day with lipid-modifying dosages (1 g/day or more) of niacin-containing products in Chinese patients (avoid use). • large quantities of grapefruit juice (avoid use). • elderly patients. • children younger than age 10 (safety not established).
Uses. Simvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver.
Subscribe to the Women's Health newsletter for the latest on disease prevention, fitness, sex, diet, anti-aging, and more from WebMD. By clicking Submit, I agree to the WebMD Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of WebMD subscriptions at any time. 
Overview. Simvastatin and atorvastatin are both cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins. They block an enzyme in the body to prevent your body from making cholesterol. Cholesterol is naturally produced in your body. Your diet has sources of cholesterol too
BRAND NAME: Zocor. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Simvastatin is a cholesterol-lowering drug. It belongs to a class of drugs called HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, commonly called  statins .. Other statins include lovastatin (Mevacor), atorvastatin (Lipitor), fluvastatin (Lescol), and rosuvastatin (Crestor). 
The primary uses of simvastatin are for the treatment of dyslipidemia and the prevention of cardiovascular disease. It is recommended to be used only after other measures such as diet, exercise, and weight reduction have not improved cholesterol levels sufficiently. Simvastatin is a powerful lipid-lowering drug that can decrease low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels by up to 50%. It is used in doses of 5 to 80 mg. In secondary prevention, 80 mg per day reduced major cardiovascular events by an absolute rate of 1.2% compared with 20 mg per day in a randomized controlled trial.