Rebirthing is an American form of prana yoga that is closest to Kriya Yoga. It may be called scientific breathing rhythm or spiritual breathing. Simply described, it is a relaxed, intuitive, connected breathing rhythm, in which the inhale is connected to the exhale, and the inner breath is merged with the outer breath. [...more...]. Rebirthing-is a safe and powerful breathing process that releases tension from the body, freeing it, so that we may live to our highest vision and unlimited potential. The breath is the ultimate healer.
Rebirthing is a powerful breathing exercise that releases emotional issues that have been lodged in your body, keeping you from experiencing joy and happiness. Jumpstart Your Metabolism: How To Lose Weight By Changing The Way You Breathe. 
Rebirthing-breathwork is a type of breathwork invented by Leonard Orr. Orr proposed that correct breathing can cure disease and relieve pain. Rebirthing-breathwork is one of the practices critiqued by anti-cult experts Margaret Singer and Janja Lalich in the book Crazy Therapies: What Are They? Do They Work? .
Rebirthing is breathwork. In a rebirthing session the rebirthee focuses on maintaining a connection between inhale and exhale, breathing as fully as possible for an hour or more. Your body gets filled with energy and is nourished as it receives more oxygen than it is accustomed to. [...more...]. Rebirthing-is a safe and powerful breathing process that releases tension from the body, freeing it, so that we may live to our highest vision and unlimited potential. The breath is the ultimate healer.
1 Rebirthing-Breathwork, aka Intuitive Energy Breathing or Conscious Energy Breathing, is the ability to breathe Energy as well as air. 2  It is the art of learning to breathe from the Breath Itself. 3  Rebirthing is perhaps the most valuable self-healing ability that humans can learn. 1 It is the art of learning to breathe from the Breath Itself. 2  Rebirthing is perhaps the most valuable self-healing ability that humans can learn. 3  We can not have disease and relaxation in the same space at the same time.
Leonard Orr, the founder of the rebirthing technique and of rebirthing breathing international, was in India recently with a team of rebirthers to train people in this powerful technique. I was fortunate to have received this training and to have completed the mandatory ten sessions to become a qualified rebirther. Information on what is rebirthing and how rebirthing breathing techniques and therapy can help you.
1 Rebirthing is a simple, gentle yet powerful conscious breathing technique. 2  It brings into awareness not only our unconsciously held beliefs and emotions but also the relationships we have with our bodies, ourselves, our intimates and our world. 1 The power of rebirthing is that in this state you are the experiencer as well as the observer of past incidents that may emerge, enabling you to release and re-interpret what happened in the past from a newly conscious and fresh perspective.
What is Rebirthing. Leonard Orr, founder of the Rebirthing philosophy, says* that Rebirthing breath causes the inner breath to be connected to the outer breath. Inner breath can also be called pure life, spirit, God, or infinite being. The outer breath is air, oxygen, and the respiratory system. 
Rebirthing seems to have notable ties to alternative medicinal techniques used in Asia and Southeast Asia. In addition to the similarity that the Rebirthing-breathwork technique holds to pranayama and yoga breathwork, rebirthing is also a therapeutic technique used what is called Core process psychotherapy. This is a psychotherapy that employs the concepts of Buddhist awareness and healing. Rebirthing generally refers to a technique used to treat a patient who has suffered some traumatic event. The idea is to simulate a second birth, thus creating a fresh start, a fresh consciousness in the life and mind of the patient.
Rebirthing is a therapeutic technique used in various types of alternative medicine and psychotherapy. Rebirthing generally refers to a technique used to treat a patient who has suffered some traumatic event. The idea is to simulate a second birth, thus creating a fresh start, a fresh consciousness in the life and mind of the patient.