All dried joint compound shall be flat, smooth and free of tool marks and ridges. Note that surface texturing or skim coating is NOT included in this estimate. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Ceiling Drywall ranges between $1.57 - $1.94 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. Cost to Install Ceiling Drywall-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors.
Generally, the larger the home or room, the more the cost to install a ceiling will end up being. However, with drywall projects, the inverse is actually true. It costs more per square foot for smaller drywall jobs, like repairs, than larger ones like installation. Size. From standard ceilings to vaulted, popcorn, coffered, or beam, there are plenty of options for ceiling types. The cost to install a ceiling will depend on what type of ceiling you want. Standard, smooth drywall ceilings will have the lowest installation costs. Vaulted ceilings use more materials and are taller, which can bring ceiling installation costs up
1 Drywall materials (drywall sheets plus screws or nails, joint compound, tape, etc.) average 25 cents - 65 cents a square foot; professional installation is an additional 85 cents -$1.50 per square foot. 1 For about 4,000 square feet of drywall on all the walls and ceilings of a small home, it's $4,400-$8,600 or more. 2  Factors such as cathedral ceilings or irregular layouts can bump the price higher.
Cost of new drywall or gypsum panels installation calculated per sheet (4’ x 8’) as its manufactured dimensions or estimated as a charge per square foot. Every remodeling project associated with small drywall repair priced base on work complexity, time spent, and hourly rate of a drywall installer. Average cost of a new drywall to get installed will vary from $41.5 to $60.0 per 4'x8'x5/8 sheet including labor and materials or from $1.30 to $1.88 per square foot. Complication of work is a main factor of establishing the total cost to install a drywall. Custom work on a multilevel ceiling, hanging and finishing drywall on arches, or other supplementary house design details will increase the cost of installation up to 100% or even more.
1 Installing new drywall on the walls and ceiling of a 12x12-foot-room with 8-foot-high walls means about 530 square feet of drywall. 2  For about 4,000 square feet of drywall on all the walls and ceilings of a small home, it's $4,400-$8,600 or more. 1 For about 4,000 square feet of drywall on all the walls and ceilings of a small home, it's $4,400-$8,600 or more. 2  Factors such as cathedral ceilings or irregular layouts can bump the price higher.
2 The average ceiling height. Smaller dimension ceilings are figured at lower heights, up to 10 to 12 foot. Surfaces broader than 50 ft can go up to 16 foot. Due to practicality and also while scaling for realistic price increases based on greater efforts for setup such as by work platform or scaffold. 
When it comes to drywall, all projects fall under the ceiling or wall category. According to our ceiling installation cost estimator, the average price to install a ceiling is $1,279. Homeowners should expect to pay more for a drywall ceiling compared to a drop ceiling. 
The average costs and materials associated with a project like this would include: 1  The Drywall-The room described above is going to demand around 600 square feet of drywall to cover the walls and the ceilings. 2  These will be sheets sized at 4'x8' and cost around $9 each. 1 The Drywall-The room described above is going to demand around 600 square feet of drywall to cover the walls and the ceilings. 2  These will be sheets sized at 4'x8' and cost around $9 each. 3  This means that roughly 20 sheets are required for this project, which will cost around $180 total