Employer access online is a free service for schools, local authorities and teacher supply agencies in England. You can check the record of any teacher that you employ or are considering employing with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) including any:
You are eligible for a DBS check with barred list check if you meet the definition of regulated activity for children. If you do not meet the definition of regulated activity but would have under the old definition, then you are eligible for an enhanced DBS check.
Please note, the Children’s Barred List check (formerly List 99) is not a comprehensive check against the barred list – this can only be obtained through an Enhanced criminal record check.
A List 99 check will also show if an individual is on the Department of Health Protection of Children Act (1999) list, also known as (POCALS), and has been barred by the Secretary of State for Education and Skills. The results of a List 99 check will take just 24hours to be returned.
List 99 contains the names, dates of birth and teacher reference numbers of people whose employment has been barred or restricted, either on grounds of misconduct or on medical grounds. The purpose of List 99 is to enable employers to safeguard against employing a barred person.
The Children’s Barred List (formerly List 99) Check allows educational establishments to check against a database to see if there is a possible match for a person included in the children’s barred list. If a person is included in the children’s barred list, employment by the educational establishment is prohibited. The information on the database is held under the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 and is maintained by the Disclosure and Barring Service.
An Enhanced check with Barred List Check for regulated activity-To be eligible to request a check of the Children's or Adults' Barred lists, the position must meet the new definition of Regulated Activity. This check is the highest level of disclosure and barring check.