There is a growing debate in the world of technology. It has nothing to do with the development of fancy new e-gadgets, computer games, or apps. This debate cuts to the core of who we are as individuals, families, and communities.
1 Relationships are affected by online communication. 2  It's much easier to injure friendships online than in person because of the ease of creating creating misunderstandings electronically. 3  Non-verbal communication, after all, (argued by to some to represent up to 40% of our in-person communication) is completely absent.
ETIQUETTE. For transferring information efficiently, the Internet is excellent. For transacting emotionally sensitive or satisfying connections, it's not. My wife and I joke that we use email messaging when we're sitting back-to-back in our home office, but we use it to keep a record of our schedule.
Many people are involved in an abundant number of relationships through technology, but sometimes the quantity of these associations leaves people feeling qualitatively empty. Obviously, technology has had a profound impact on what it means to be social.
Nowhere is the impact of popular culture and technology on children's relationships more noticeable than in families. Both influences have contributed to a growing divide between the traditional roles that children and their parents play while, at the same time, blurring those same lines between parents and children.
However, the research suggests that users of technology tend to have more social relationships and that these relationships are more supportive and more diverse. So for now, we can return to our Facebook accounts, guilt free.
Social media websites are wonderful tools but are often abused. A few common sense rules for the electronic world apply: 1  Don't say anything on email you'd feel uncomfortable saying to someone in person. 2  If it needs saying but feels awkward, do it in person. 3  Look upon it as practice for handling confrontation maturely.
I appreciate the write up about the issues around isolation, dangers to be aware of, and overall etiquette of using technology. The impact on relationships is very alarming. The number of couples who are disconnected from each other but are very connected to their smartphones is increasing.
1 And our effect on one another is much more intense when we meet in person. 2  When a friend is going through a rough time, nothing substitutes for in-person communication. 3  A gentle smile or a heartfelt hug has far more power than the cleverest emoticon to lift another person's spirits.