DERAMAXX is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that is proven safe and effective in controlling the pain and inflammation of osteoarthritis in dogs. Deramaxx for dogs works for a full 24 hours to insure your pet is pain free. Deramaxx is a medication made by Novartis that has been designed to help relieve the pain that is associated with this kind of arthritis and it is also sometimes given to dogs that undergo any kind of surgery on their bones, joints or teeth.
Deracoxib (trade name Deramaxx, Novartis) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug of the coxib class, used in veterinary medicine to treat osteoarthritis in dogs. It is sold in tablets, which have added beefy flavor to increase palatability. Deramaxx received FDA approval in August 2002 for the control of post operative pain and inflammation associated with orthopedic surgery in dogs..
Deramaxx (deracoxib) is a prescription drug manufactured by Novartis Animal Health, Inc. It is a non-narcotic, non-steroidal anti inflammatory drug (NSAID) that belongs to the COX-2 inhibitor class of medications (coxib class). Deramax can be termed a diaryl substituted pyrazole. Deramaxx is most commonly used for the control of postoperative pain and inflammation associated with orthopedic and dental surgery and for the control of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis in dogs.
Deramaxx is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) belonging to the COX-2 inhibitor class of medications. Deramaxx is a prescription product, and is for dogs only. •. Deramaxx is a beef-flavored chewable tablet and works by reducing substances that cause pain, inflammation, and fever in the body. Before giving your pet any prescription or over-the-counter medications, check with your veterinarian or pharmacist. What is Deramaxx: Deramaxx is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Deramaxx works by reducing substances that cause pain, inflammation, and fever in the body. Deramaxx is used to reduce pain associated with surgery or dental procedures. Deramaxx is also used for the treatment of inflammation and stiffness as a result of conditions such as arthritis or hip dysplasia
Home Medications. DERAMAXX (deracoxib) is used for the control of pain and inflammation associated with orthopedic surgery in dogs.It is a non-narcotic, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) of the coxib class. DERAMAXX tablets are round, biconvex, chewable tablets that contain deracoxib formulated with beefy flavoring. 
Deramaxx has the generic name Deracoxib and it is manufactured by the pharmaceutical giant Novartis. The drug was approved by the FDA as a prescription medication for dog osteoarthritis. It comes in different dosage quantities. Deramaxx is available in 25 mg, 75 mg, and 100 mg chewable tablets. The tablets are beef flavored, allowing pet owners to administer the drug easily to pets.
Uses. Deracoxib (Deramaxx) are indicated for the control of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and postoperative pain and inflammation due to orthopedic surgery and dental surgery in dogs. Do NOT use in cats. 
Deramaxx. Deramaxx is one drug that is widely used for dog arthritis. It belongs to the NSAID family, the group of drugs that inhibit the COX-2 substance. The COX-2 substance is the one that causes the inflammation and pain that are evident in pets suffering from arthritis. The drug was approved by the FDA as a prescription medication for dog osteoarthritis. It comes in different dosage quantities. Deramaxx is available in 25 mg, 75 mg, and 100 mg chewable tablets. The tablets are beef flavored, allowing pet owners to administer the drug easily to pets.
How does this medication work? Deramaxx is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug that works by inhibiting the cell's production of chemicals that trigger inflammation. Arthritis in dogs and other forms of orthopedic and post-operative pain can be relieved with Deramaxx. 