Ginger Name Meaning. The meaning of Ginger has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Ginger are: 1  Latin meaning: Spring-like; flourishing. 2  English meaning: Plant whose red root is used as a spice. The name Ginger is in the following categories: Color Names, Cute Names, Earthy Names, English Names, Floral Names, Green Names, Nature Names, Nicknames or Pet Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here).
English name. In English, the name Ginger means-the spice.The name Ginger originated as an English name. The name Ginger is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-the spice. Origin-England. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special! 
The different meanings of the name Ginger are: The meaning of the name “Ginger” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. The name Ginger is in the following categories: Color Names, Cute Names, Earthy Names, English Names, Floral Names, Green Names, Nature Names, Nicknames or Pet Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here).
English Meaning: The name Ginger is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ginger is: A, meaning pure, chaste, virginal. A common nickname for people with red hair. Also means pep or liveliness, refering to the pungent ginger root. Famous bearer: American dancer-actress Ginger Rogers. The name Ginger is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ginger is: A, meaning pure, chaste, virginal. A common nickname for people with red hair. Also means pep or liveliness, refering to the pungent ginger root.
Ginger is a very popular first name for women (#428 out of 4276, Top 10%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#20711 out of 150436, Top 14%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Ginger for girls. Ginger /gin-ger/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced JIN-jer. It is of English origin, and the meaning of Ginger is pep, liveliness; ginger. Refers to the pungent root used as a spice. Also, nickname for Virginia (Latin)  virgin . Made famous by actress Ginger Roger
Meaning & History. From the English word ginger for the spice or the reddish-brown colour. It can also be a diminutive of VIRGINIA, as in the case of actress and dancer Ginger Rogers (1911-1995), by whom the name was popularized. 
Origin of the name Ginger: Originally a nickname for someone with red hair, Ginger is now sometimes used as a diminutive form of Virginia (spring-like, flourishing). Var: Gynger, Jinjer. Pet: Ginni, Ginnie, Ginny, Jinnie. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Ginger: | Edit. My name is Ginger. It is not short for anything. My mom has always said she chose it because I was born with bright red hair, and because there were already 4 babies named Jennifer in the church nursery at the time:).