As a member of the Navy Medical Corps, you'll receive high-quality training and a good salary, making this an excellent career choice. If you are interested in becoming a doctor in the Navy, there are a number of things you have to do first to meet the qualifications.
Military doctors’s salary in the United States ranges from $18,000 to $60,000 per year based on the length of service and specialty. The Special monthly pay ranges from $100 to $1,000 per month depending upon the grade of pay and years of service.
The pay for an Army doctor may not be as high as that of a provider in private practice. Basic pay for an Army captain is $44,543 a year [source: U.S. Army ], while the median salary of a general practice civilian physician is $119,122 [source: Pay Scale ].
Wages in the Navy are not decided by your job, but your rank. If you go to military.com you can look up the pay charts for enlisted and officers. If you are a doctor and you go into the Navy, you will be an officer, so you can judge what you would make by the officer pay chart.
If they are serving in a combat zone, additional payments range between $150 and $250 per month. Army officers who serve at sea can receive from $150 to $380 per month for sea duty. Military personnel are eligible for family-separation pay of $250 per month and family-subsistence allowances of up to $1,10
So, you want the Navy to pay for your Med School. AFHPSP offers qualified students full tuition for school, a monthly stipend, and reimbursement for books and various required equipment and fees. In return, students serve as active duty medical, dental or medical service corps officers (for a minimum of three years).
As a physician on the U.S. Army health care team, you can be eligible for up to $120,000 to pay down your medical school debt through the Active Duty Health Professional Loan Repayment Program.
All doctors on active duty receive monthly variable special pay. Doctors with less than three years of service earn $100 per month. Variable special pay for doctors with more than three years of service ranges from $416 to $583 per month based on rank and time served.
About 65 percent of Army doctors are reserve officers, serving part-time when not called to active duty [source: Darves ]. The rest opt for a full-time military career. Almost all medical specialties are represented. You'll also find opportunities to do research, to teach, or to work in medical administration.
ACTIVE DUTY HEALTH PROFESSIONS LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM. You can receive up to $120,000 to pay down your medical school debt. The ADHPLRP provides $40,000 a year for up to three years.