HELLP syndrome can be difficult to diagnose, especially when high blood pressure and protein in the urine aren't present. Its symptoms are sometimes mistaken for gastritis, flu, acute hepatitis, gall bladder disease, or other conditions.
HELLP syndrome is a life-threatening liver disorder thought to be a type of severe preeclampsia. It is characterized by H emolysis (destruction of red blood cells), E levated L iver enzymes (which indicate liver damage), and L ow PlateletP count. HELLP is usually related to
HELLP syndrome is a life-threatening pregnancy complication usually considered to be a variant of preeclampsia. Both conditions usually occur during the later stages of pregnancy, or sometimes after childbirth. HELLP syndrome was named by Dr. Louis Weinstein in 1982 after its characteristics:
HELLP syndrome is a rare but serious illness in pregnancy. This illness can start quickly, most often in the last 3 months of pregnancy (the third trimester). It can also start soon after you have your baby. HELLP stands for Hemolysis, Elevated Liver enzyme levels and a Low Platelet count.
HELLP syndrome is a disorder related to preeclampsia and eclampsia (high blood pressure problems of pregnancy). The actual incidence is not known, but it appears to develop in 1 to 2 out of 1,000 pregnancies, and in 10% to 20% of pregnant women with severe preeclampsia or eclampsia.
HELLP Syndrome: Symptoms, Treatment and Prevention. HELLP Syndrome is a series of symptoms that make up a syndrome that can affect pregnant women. HELLP syndrome is thought to be a variant of preeclampsia, but it may be an entity all on its own.
HELLP syndrome is a life-threatening obstetric complication usually considered to be a variant or complication of pre-eclampsia.
HELLP syndrome occurs in about 1 to 2 out of 1,000 pregnancies. In women with preeclampsia or eclampsia, the condition develops in 10 to 20% of pregnancies. Most often HELLP develops during the third trimester of pregnancy (between 26 to 40 weeks gestation) Sometimes it develops in the week after the baby is born.