Instruments. The piano is almost always the main instrument in traditional ragtime jazz. Many of the most enduring ragtime compositions, such as Scott Joplin's The Entertainer and William Krell's Mississippi Rag, are actually solo piano pieces. Some songs, however, had other instruments accompanying the piano. Ragtime jazz is a type of music that was popular during the early 20th century. Ragtime was pioneered by artists such as Ben Harney, William Krell and Tom Turpin, but it is Scott Joplin who is most associated with the style. Ragtime jazz has a set of very specific musical characteristics.
Drums. Due to ragtime's roots in African music, bongo drums were initially used to establish steady rhythms which the syncopated piano rhythms played against. However, as the musical genre developed, many ragtime bands began to use full drum kits. Ragtime first became popular in dance halls in the 1890s, while revivals in the 1940s, 1950s and 1970s have ensured its place in history as a major musical movement. Ragtime had an impact in popular American culture, with the renowned composer Scott Joplin becoming a household name.
The Jim Crow Era was a post of the civil war   Ragtime Music   The mai … n instrument used is the piano   It was most popular between 1897-1918   The most famous rag-time composers were: Scott Joplin, Joseph Lamb, James Scott. Although one would think the air guitar, it is not so :) The piano is the most played instrument. approx. 21 million Americans play the piano (about 1in every 12 people) In m … y school class of 16, 7 students play the piano.
Confidence votes 361. The main instrument used in Ragtime was the piano,. The most well known Ragtime pianist, and composer for the piano, was Scott Joplin. However, the music was and could be played by a wide variety of ensembles and solo instruments. Although one would think the air guitar, it is not so :) The piano is the most played instrument. approx. 21 million Americans play the piano (about 1in every 12 people) In m … y school class of 16, 7 students play the piano.
1 These are based on a genre of music called ragtime. 2  This type of music has an interesting origin and it rea…. 3  Traditional Scottish Instruments Though part of the United Kingdom, Scotland has managed to retain a rich cultural heritage. 4  That is thanks, in some part, to the music of Scotland, which continues to be play…. This in turn led to a Ragtime revival (yet again) but by then it was widespread. 1  A Buying Guide for Saxophones If your child wants to learn to play the saxophone, you are likely looking for some information on that particular instrument.
monochrome piano image by Paul Moore from Fotolia.com. Ragtime originated in African American culture and is a musical genre characterized by march and waltz musical influences alongside uptempo syncopated rhythms. Ragtime first became popular in dance halls in the 1890s, while revivals in the 1940s, 1950s and 1970s have ensured its place in history as a major musical movement. Ragtime had an impact in popular American culture, with the renowned composer Scott Joplin becoming a household name.
Then there was a major revival of fortune for ragtime music when Marvin Hamlisch used Joplin's music extensively in the soundtrack to the movie The Sting. The Sting soundtrack included The Entertainer as its main theme, together with Solace and other rags, played in the original piano versions or as arrangements. Two of the best known examples of this are when John Williams used a fusion of alien ragtime, jazz and latin for the Cantina Band music in the original Star Wars (IV: A New Hope), while Jerry Goldsmith composed the Gremlins Rag (with whacky electronics) for the film Gremlins.
In the early 1940s, many jazz bands began to include ragtime in their repertoire, and as early as 1936 78 rpm records of Joplin's compositions were produced. Old numbers written for piano were rescored for jazz instruments by jazz musicians, which gave the old style a new sound. A rag written in 3/4 time is a ragtime waltz.. Ragtime is not a time (meter) in the same sense that march time is 2/4 meter and waltz time is 3/4 meter; it is rather a musical genre that uses an effect that can be applied to any meter.
Ragtime – also spelled rag-time or rag time – is a musical genre that enjoyed its peak popularity between 1895 and 1918. Its cardinal trait is its syncopated, or ragged, rhythm. A rag written in 3/4 time is a ragtime waltz.. Ragtime is not a time (meter) in the same sense that march time is 2/4 meter and waltz time is 3/4 meter; it is rather a musical genre that uses an effect that can be applied to any meter.