Hairballs aren't just uncomfortable for cats. They can be dangerous. If enough hair lodges in the cat's stomach, it can block the small intestine, stomach, colon or esophagus. Sometimes surgery is the only way to remove the accumulated hair. 
Treatment for hairballs in cats. Hairball treatments generally fall into two categories: adding fibre to the diet, or giving a lubricant (usually a petroleum jelly product) to slide the hair through to the correct end of the cat for disposal. A third option, which might be used by a holistic vet, is homeopathy. You can also put a dab into a syringe and force-feed it to your cat, but if it comes to this, you're probably better off with a more kitty-friendly method of treatment. Diet for hairballs. Fibre is relatively easy to add to the diet. There are a lot of hairball control cat foods and treats out there.
Cat cough that's caused due to hairballs can be easily treated at home. It's important for pet owners to determine if the cough is caused exclusively by hairballs, or if there are underlying diseases such as asthma or bronchitis that induce cat cough. Every cat ejects hairballs occasionally. Cats suffering from hairballs attempt to remove the hairball orally. The cat will exhibit symptoms of wheezing or coughing along with vomiting. Very often the hair gets stuck at the back of the cat's throat during the coughing or wheezing. Sometimes pets eject hairballs along with bile.
Report Abuse. After you take her to the vet keep feeding her hairball treats and the dry food with hairball treatment in it. Then to take care of some of the hair you can get her a haircut once a month to keep the hair down. Thats what I have to do with mine. They dont have such a hard time anymore with getting them up. I've tried it all: Laxatone, hairball food, hairball treats, canned pumpkin, grass, treats with grass in it, but nothing seems to work. My cat seems like she's fighting not to vomit...it seems to come up to the roof of her mouth and then she swallows it again. She is getting progressively worse with just..
Hair, Hairball, Foreign Body Obstruction, Grooming. Hairballs are something that most cats will contend with at some point in life. Hairballs can be gross, and when a cat is coughing one up, it can be alarming for pet-parents. Learn more from Dr. Michel about the one of the most common problems that cats, and their families, are likely to encounter.
No two ways about it: Hairballs in cats are unpleasant. And they’re not just disagreeable for the person who has to clean them up -- they can cause intestinal blockages, which can be a serious health problem for your cat. If you notice the following hairball symptoms, be sure to contact your veterinarian, as they could indicate that a hairball has caused a potentially life-threatening blockage: 1  Ongoing vomiting, gagging, retching, or hacking without producing a hairball. 2  Lack of appetite.
Problem signs of Hairballs. While an occasional hairball is no cause for alarm, if your cat is vomiting up a hairball more than once or twice a month, it's time to think about a plan of action. This will probably start with a trip to your veterinarian for a thorough exam. You can also put a dab into a syringe and force-feed it to your cat, but if it comes to this, you're probably better off with a more kitty-friendly method of treatment. Diet for hairballs. Fibre is relatively easy to add to the diet. There are a lot of hairball control cat foods and treats out there.
Symptoms of Hairballs in Cats. It can be disturbing to watch (and hear) your cat eliminating a hairball. Some common hairball symptoms include hacking, gagging, and retching. Usually, your cat will then vomit the hairball in relatively short order. If you notice the following hairball symptoms, be sure to contact your veterinarian, as they could indicate that a hairball has caused a potentially life-threatening blockage: 1  Ongoing vomiting, gagging, retching, or hacking without producing a hairball. 2  Lack of appetite.
Hairballs may be disgusting, but they develop as a result of your cat’s healthy and fastidious grooming routine. When your cat grooms himself, tiny hook-like structures on his tongue catch loose and dead hair, which is then swallowed. If you notice the following hairball symptoms, be sure to contact your veterinarian, as they could indicate that a hairball has caused a potentially life-threatening blockage: 1  Ongoing vomiting, gagging, retching, or hacking without producing a hairball. 2  Lack of appetite.