This is when ancient animals would gradually change forms over a long period of time.the first land animals appear on earth? About 417 million years age during the Devonian era. As for creationism there are skeletons of humans who are much older than 6000 years. It was a microscopic being, the name is not known. Tribolites, that came into existence approximately 450 million years ago at the beginning of the Paleozoic Era in the Camb … rian Period, are among the first animal-like creatures on earth. amoeba Earth's first animal was the ocean-drifting comb jelly.
Most animal species flourished and became extinct long before the first monkeys and their prosimian ancestors evolved. While the earth is about 4.54 billion years old and the first life dates to at least 3.5 billion years ago, the first primates did not appear until around 50-55 million years ago. That was10-15 million years after the dinosaurs had become extinct. The first true primates evolved by 55 million years ago or a bit earlier, near the beginning of the Eocene Epoch. Their fossils have been found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They looked different from the primates today.
The first life forms appeared between 3.8 and 3.5 billion years ago. The earliest evidences for life on Earth are graphite found to be biogenic in 3.7-billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks discovered in Western Greenland and microbial mat fossils found in 3.48-billion-year-old sandstone discovered in Western Australia. 
But dinosaurs didn’t appear until about 230 million years ago. Mammals first appeared around that same time. The first human-like animal, or hominid, dates to about 4.5 million years ago, but modern humans only date back perhaps 60,000 years. And recorded civilization has lasted only about 5,000 years.
Depends on what your definition of animals is Angela, The first invertebrates-part of the animal kingdom-appeared around 430 million years ago. However, these animals don't look much like anything we have now. The first modern looking animals appeared around 360 million years ago-this would be the first primitive fish. Procaryotic cell structure appeared about 3.3 billion years ago. Photosynthetic bacteria appeared about 3.0 billion years ago, causing the oxidation of the other gas species and then the slow rise of the atmospheric concentration of free oxygen over the next two billion years.
The researchers found that land plants had evolved on Earth by about 700 million years ago and land fungi by about 1,300 million years ago — much earlier than previous estimates of around 480 million years ago, which were based on the earliest fossils of those organisms. 
Best Answer: This contiguous region of spacetime, the universe, appeared from vacuum energy about 13.7 billion years ago. The solar nebula condensed into a central star and a planetary system about 5 billion years ago. Earth's first atmosphere was composed of small molecules of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen. Procaryotic cell structure appeared about 3.3 billion years ago. Photosynthetic bacteria appeared about 3.0 billion years ago, causing the oxidation of the other gas species and then the slow rise of the atmospheric concentration of free oxygen over the next two billion years.
New World monkeys appeared for the first time about 30 million years ago. It is generally thought that they began as isolated groups of Old World monkeys that somehow drifted to South America either from North America or Africa on large clumps of vegetation and soil. The first true primates evolved by 55 million years ago or a bit earlier, near the beginning of the Eocene Epoch. Their fossils have been found in North America, Europe, and Asia. They looked different from the primates today.
Mammals appeared on the earth long before the extinction of the dinosaurs; in fact, dinosaurs and mammals originated within 10 million years of each other, in the late Triassic about 200 million years ago. 
Life is thought to have begun on earth about 3.8 billion years ago. Life on earth began as bacteria and did not advance beyond the one-celled format until around 580 million years ago. The first fish appeared around 510 million years ago. These were armored jawless fishes known as ostracoderms. Mammals first appeared around that same time. The first human-like animal, or hominid, dates to about 4.5 million years ago, but modern humans only date back perhaps 60,000 years. And recorded civilization has lasted only about 5