Virgin America and JetBlue change fees vary from $75 to $150. Passengers who want to change nonrefundable tickets not only pay change fees, but must pay any fare difference. Southwest does not charge a change fee at all– passengers only pay the fare difference. Airline change fees have been around for as long as, well, the airlines-or at least since this old IBM reservations terminal from the 1980s was used (Photo: AJMexico Flickr). A TravelSkills reader is shocked when he’s asked to pay a $200 change fee to get a lower fare.
Changing your ticket on United Airlines will now cost you a little bit more. The nation's biggest airline upped its charge for making changes to domestic itineraries to $200, a $50 increase. The change — which also covers itineraries between the USA and Canada — took effect April 18. We adjusted this fee to better compensate us for those costs.. With the change, however, United will now have the highest change fee for domestic tickets among the USA's five biggest airlines. American, Delta and US Airways each charge $150 for passengers wanting to make changes to nonrefundable tickets.
“@thepointsguy How do I ask United to refund a flight or waive the change fee? Flight was only $218 so the change fee makes a credit useless.”. A big trend in the airline industry has been the increase in fees, for everything from priority security and boarding, to baggage allowances and ticket changes.
United Airlines has quietly raised its ticket change fee by $50 to $200-$300 on paid tickets, from the previous change fee of $150-$250. 
Change Fees. Based on the fare rules, you may have to pay a service fee and/or a difference in fare. For travel within the 50 United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the fee is $200 for Delta-marketed flights. For travel outside the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the change fee for Delta-marketed flights is typically $200 to $500, but can vary based on location and type of fare. Changes are usually permitted only to the return portion of an international itinerary.
The fee is $110 for award flights. There is no fee to change or cancel a flight ticketed within 24 hours, so long as the reservation was made at least 7 days prior to departure. United Airlines charges change fees of $200 for domestic flights and up to $400 or more for international itineraries. Same day changes can be made for $75, but that fee is waived for MileagePlus Premier Gold, Premier Platinum and Premier 1K members. American Airlines has a whopping $200 change fee on paid fares (other than full fare refundable tickets) for domestic flights, and up to $450 for international flights. Same day changes are $75 in economy and free for business and first class passengers on paid fares.
United Airlines ups domestic change fee to $200. Changing your ticket on United Airlines will now cost you a little bit more. The airline upped its change for making changes to domestic itineraries to $200, a $50 increase. The change – which also cover. We adjusted this fee to better compensate us for those costs.. With the change, however, United will now have the highest change fee for domestic tickets among the USA's five biggest airlines. American, Delta and US Airways each charge $150 for passengers wanting to make changes to nonrefundable tickets.
The price of change just went up. United Airlines raised its ticket change fees by $50 on April 18 to $200 for domestic tickets and $300 for international itineraries. Other airlines haven’t yet raised their change fees. But like baggage fees, rivals may well jump at a chance to raise fees ever higher
His return ticket cost $134, plus baggage fees. But United’s change fee, which was recently raised from $150 to $200, would have completely zeroed out the value of his credit. So he booked a one-way return flight on Southwest Airlines for $152—about the same as his original flight, including baggage fees—and never looked back. 