A volcano forms at a convergent boundary when two plates (At least one being Oceanic) collide. Then the less dense Oceanic plate sinks/slides under the other. This process is … called subduction. From here the Oceanic plate melts in the mantle. 
As the plates separate along the boundary, the block between the faults cracks and drops down into the soft, plastic interior (the asthenosphere). The sinking of the block forms a central valley called a rift. Magma (liquid rock) seeps upward to fill the cracks. In this way, new crust is formed along the boundary. Earthquakes occur along the faults, and volcanoes form where the magma reaches the surface. Where a divergent boundary crosses the land, the rift valleys which form are typically 30 to 50 kilometers wide. Examples include th e East Africa rift in Kenya and Ethiopia, and the Rio Grande rift in New Mexico.
Effects that are found at a divergent boundary between oceanic plates include: a submarine mountain range such as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge; volcanic activity in the form of fissure eruptions; shallow earthquake activity; creation of new seafloor and a widening ocean basin. 
In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. Divergent boundaries within continents initially produce rifts which eventually become rift valleys. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges.
The first sort of plate boundary is called a divergent boundary, or spreading center. At these boundaries, two plates move away from one another. As the two move apart, mid-oc … ean ridges are created as magma from the mantle up wells through a crack in the oceanic crust and cools. Friction between these plates causes heat that … creates magmas. At a divergent boundary upwelling mantle (athenosphere) decompresses due to reduced pressures, allowing magma to form. This magma is extruded onto the seafloor as pillow basalts, and beneath the seafloors as massive gabbros and sheeted (gabbro) dikes.
1 Pressure decrease-this is a very important mechanism at divergent boundaries. 2  Addition of water-this is a very important mechanism at convergent boundaries. 3  Partial melting always produces a magma that is less mafic than the parent rock. 1 These are the elements that make up the rock forming silicate minerals. 2  Volatiles are substances, dissolved in the magma, which don't go into minerals as the magma solidifies. 3  They are released in the form of liquids or gasses.
The process of magma formation is different at each type of plate boundary, where the tectonic setting is unique. Therefore, the composition of magma differs in each of these settings. As a result, tectonic settings determine the types of volcanoes that form and the types of eruptions that take place. Volcanoes at Divergent Boundaries At divergent boundaries, plates move away from each other. What You Will Learn • Nonexplosive eruptions of basaltic magma occur at divergent boundaries. • Shield volcanoes that form from enormous volumes of basaltic magma occur at hot spots. • Explosive eruptions of silica-rich magma occur at con
Magma rises into and through the other plate, solidifying into new crust. Magma formed from melting plates solidifies into granite, a light colored, low-density rock that makes up the continents. Thus at convergent boundaries, continental crust, made of granite, is created, and oceanic crust is destroyed. Two plates sliding past each other forms a transform plate boundary. Natural or human-made structures that cross a transform boundary are offset—split into pieces and carried in opposite directions.
As the plates move away from each other at divergent boundaries, the lithosphere becomes thinner. A set of deep cracks form in rift zone.   It is formed by the magma fro … m magma chambers rising at the rifts in the sea floor. Cooling and hardening then occurs. Friction between these plates causes heat that … creates magmas. At a divergent boundary upwelling mantle (athenosphere) decompresses due to reduced pressures, allowing magma to form. This magma is extruded onto the seafloor as pillow basalts, and beneath the seafloors as massive gabbros and sheeted (gabbro) dikes.