Chemical weathering also produces smaller pieces, but of a different chemical composition-the minerals have been changed in an attempt to be more in balance with surface conditions. Chemical weathering occurs more easily in the mafic minerals. Since they are formed at higher temperatures (in accordance to Bowen's Reaction Series) and at relatively low moisture levels, they begin to chemically weather under surface conditions at a faster rate than the more felsic materials.
Let's review. Chemical weathering is the process by which rocks are broken down by chemical reactions. There are different types of chemical weathering. Hydrolysis is the chemical breakdown of a substance when combined with water. The most common example of hydrolysis is feldspar in granite rocks changing to clay. Chemical weathering is what happens when rocks are broken down and chemically altered. Learn about the different types of chemical weathering, including hydrolysis, oxidation, carbonation, acid rain and acids produced by lichens.
Weathering. Weathering is the breakdown of rocks at the Earth’s surface, by the action of rainwater, extremes of temperature, and biological activity. It does not involve the removal of rock material. There are three types of weathering, physical, chemical and biological. Erosion is the process by which soil and rock particles are worn away and moved elsewhere by wind, water or ice. 
Weathering. Rocks gradually wear away. This is called weathering. There are three types of weathering: physical weathering. chemical weathering. biological weathering. Remember, when you answer questions about weathering, mention what is causing the weathering and what it does to the rock.
Plant and animal life, atmosphere and water are the major causes of weathering. Weathering breaks down and loosens the surface minerals of rock so they can be transported away by agents of erosion such as water, wind and ice. There are two types of weathering: mechanical and chemical. Mechanical Weathering Mechanical weathering is the disintegration of rock into smaller and smaller fragments
There are four main types of weathering. These are freeze-thaw, onion skin (exfoliation), chemical and biological weathering. 
Chemical weathering is the weakening and subsequent disintegration of rock by chemical reactions. These reactions include oxidation, hydrolysis, and carbonation. These processes either form or destroy minerals, thus altering the nature of the rock’s mineral composition. Hydrolysis is a chemical reaction caused by water. Water changes the chemical composition and size of minerals in rock, making them less resistant to weathering. Click on the video clip below to see hydrolysis of a relatively weathering resistant mineral, feldspar.