REDMOND, Ore. – Several kinds of berries, fruit trees, roses and native plants can be grown successfully in Central Oregon. Roses prefer moist, well-drained soil. In Central Oregon, native soils are predominantly sandy and can benefit from additions of organic matter. Native Plants: Native plants add beauty with colorful flowers, foliage, texture and scents. If planted in a suitable habitat, they adapt well to our soils and climate
Mugo Pines. A wide variety of evergreens (conifers) is abundant in Oregon. You will find them naturally growing throughout the state and prolifically in the Cascade Mountains. Some--Ponderosa pine and Douglas fir, for example--grow extremely tall and are not suitable as garden plants. Rhododendrons, including azaleas, are one of the most popular bushes of western Oregon. However, there are some varieties that grow within hardiness plant zones 4 through 8. This flowering plant is so popular that is celebrated in Florence, along the Oregon coast, during the Rhododendron Festival in May.
This is a list of plants by common name that are native to the U.S. state of Oregon. 1  Adobe Parsley. 2  Alaska Blueberry. 3  American Wild Carrot. 
Fruit Trees: The apple tree is the most reliable fruiting tree in Central Oregon, followed by hardy Asian pear, European pear, plum, and sour cherry. You can also try peach, apricot, sweet cherry, hardy kiwi, and some kinds of nuts, but these trees may not bear consistently. Roses prefer moist, well-drained soil. In Central Oregon, native soils are predominantly sandy and can benefit from additions of organic matter. Native Plants: Native plants add beauty with colorful flowers, foliage, texture and scents. If planted in a suitable habitat, they adapt well to our soils and climate
You may think of the Oregon landscape as having only tall pine trees covered with snow, but the state actually has a very diverse climate, with many types of garden plants. You will find locations from hardiness plant zones 4 through 9. The largest mild climate location in the state is west of the Cascade Mountains. Rhododendrons, including azaleas, are one of the most popular bushes of western Oregon. However, there are some varieties that grow within hardiness plant zones 4 through 8. This flowering plant is so popular that is celebrated in Florence, along the Oregon coast, during the Rhododendron Festival in May.
Tomatoes are a warm season fruit. Choosing the right tomatoes to grow in Oregon is important. The shorter growing season and damp springs can make the harvest difficult. Choose plants that ripen in 60 to 70 days for best results. There are tomato varieties developed just for the Oregon climate
Ecoregions are areas that are relatively uniform in soils, vegetation, climate, geology, and wildlife. Ten ecoregions are recognized in Oregon. Refer to the map on the Table of Contents page. Plants within your ecoregion are most likely to grow well in your garden. 2. Choose plants that grow well in the unique conditions in your garden. The particular conditions of soil type, soil moisture, and amount of sunlight may vary in different parts of your garden. You will want to select the right plants to fit the various conditions that may be present in your garden. 
Photo: Lynn Ketchum. REDMOND, Ore. – Several kinds of berries, fruit trees, roses and native plants can be grown successfully in Central Oregon. The key is to select varieties suited to local growing conditions and follow recommendations for planting and care. Roses prefer moist, well-drained soil. In Central Oregon, native soils are predominantly sandy and can benefit from additions of organic matter. Native Plants: Native plants add beauty with colorful flowers, foliage, texture and scents. If planted in a suitable habitat, they adapt well to our soils and climat
Welcome to Oregon Palm Nursery. Oregon Palm Nursery is a family-owned nursery which provides cold hardy palm trees and other Exotic companion plants. We have been growing palm trees for many years in Oregon and look forward to bringing a little bit of the Tropics to your garden. At Oregon Palm Nursery we carry. 