It's just hepatitis A. If you're referring to the condition, you can call it inflammation of the liver due to hepatitis A virus (or inflammation of the liver due to HAV) and if you're referring to the virus itself, hepatitis A virus (or HAV). · just now. Report Abuse. It's just hepatitis A. If you're referring to the condition, you can call it inflammation of the liver due to hepatitis A virus (or inflammation of the liver due to HAV) and if you're referring to the virus itself, hepatitis A virus (or HAV). Try to be more specific, please.
The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. 1 Sexually Transmitted Diseases: Risk Factors for Hepatitis Hepatitis is a viral infection that causes inflammation of the liver. 2  Anyone is susceptible to hepatitis because of the various ways that it is transmitted.
Hepatitis A is a highly contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus is one of several types of hepatitis viruses that cause inflammation and affect your liver's ability to function. You're most likely to contract hepatitis A from contaminated food or water or from close contact with someone who's infected. Mild cases of hepatitis A don't require treatment, and most people who are infected recover completely with no permanent liver damage.
Hepatitis B is one of the most common infectious viral diseases in  the world, infecting approximately two billion people worldwide. It  is a virus that infects the liver.  …  Hepatitis B infections are either acute or chronic. Acute hepatitis  B can last from a few weeks to a few months. The hepatitis B virus is transmitted in 1 of 3 ways: 1. At birth, it can be passed from an infected mother to her baby 2. Direct contact with infected blood (needle sticks … , blood transfusions, wound to wound contact, etc) 3. Unprotected sex You cannot get it through food or by casual contact.
If you have this infection, you have inflammation in your liver that's caused by a virus. You don't always get symptoms, but when you do, you might have: 1  Jaundice (yellow eyes and skin, dark urine). 2  Pain in your belly. 3  Loss of appetite. 4  Nausea. 5  Fever. 6  Diarrhea. You can catch the disease if you drink water or food that's been contaminated with the stool of someone with the virus. You can also get infected if you: 1  Eat fruits, vegetables, or other foods that were contaminated during handling. 2  Eat raw shellfish harvested from water that's got the virus in it.
Report Abuse. Scientist/Doctors usually refer to it as HCV-or Hepatitis C...hepatitis means swollen liver...if you are looking for what the C stands for it is just a class name...meaning it's not an abbrviation of anything. HCV prior to 1990 used to be called non-A non-B hepatitis. The first poster is referring to the name of the virus type itself-which that information can be found in Wikipedia-if that is what you wanted. The Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a small (50 nm in size), enveloped, single-stranded, positive sense RNA virus. I've been looking all over, and so far the only thing that I have found is that the scientific name for Hepatitis C is Hepatitis C. Or the Hepatitis C virus.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Scientific name is Hepatitis A Virus (HAV). Common name is Hepatitis A Virus (HAV). That's probably why you're having difficulty looking it up. · just now. Report Abuse. It's just hepatitis A. If you're referring to the condition, you can call it inflammation of the liver due to hepatitis A virus (or inflammation of the liver due to HAV) and if you're referring to the virus itself, hepatitis A virus (or HAV). Try to be more specific, please.
Hepatitis B is a disease caused by hepatitis B virus (HBV) which infects the liver of hominoidae, including humans, and causes an inflammation called hepatitis. The hepatitis B virus is transmitted in 1 of 3 ways: 1. At birth, it can be passed from an infected mother to her baby 2. Direct contact with infected blood (needle sticks … , blood transfusions, wound to wound contact, etc) 3. Unprotected sex You cannot get it through food or by casual contact.
Hepatitis B virus, abbreviated HBV, is a species of the genus Orthohepadnavirus, which is likewise a part of the Hepadnaviridae family of viruses. This virus causes the disease hepatitis B. Hepatitis B virus is a member of the Hepadnavirus family. The virus particle, called Dane particle (virion), consists of an outer lipid envelope and an icosahedral nucleocapsid core composed of protein.
Name of the Organism: Hepatitis A Virus. Hepatitis A virus (HAV) is classified with the enterovirus group of the Picornaviridae family. HAV has a single molecule of RNA surrounded by a small (27 nm diameter) protein capsid and a buoyant density in CsCl of 1.33 g/ml.