An allele is one of two or more versions of a gene. An individual inherits two alleles for each gene, one from each parent. If the two alleles are the same, the individual is homozygous for that gene. If the alleles are different, the individual is heterozygous. 
allele. An allele is a variant form of a gene. Some genes have a variety of different forms, which are located at the same position, or genetic locus, on a chromosome. Humans are called diploid organisms because they have two alleles at each genetic locus, with one allele inherited from each parent. When an organism is heterozygous at a specific locus and carries one dominant and one recessive allele, the organism will express the dominant phenotype. Alleles can also refer to minor DNA sequence variations between alleles that do not necessarily influence the gene's
Definition: An allele is an alternative form of a gene (one member of a pair) that is located at a specific position on a specific chromosome. These DNA codings determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring through sexual reproduction. When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one may be dominant and the other recessive. The dominant allele is expressed and the recessive allele is masked. This is an example of complete dominance. In heterozygous relationships where neither allele is dominant but both are completely expressed, the alleles are considered to be co-dominant. Co-dominance is exemplified in AB blood type inheritance
Definition of ALLELE. 1. : any of the alternative forms of a gene that may occur at a given locus. 2. : either of a pair of alternative Mendelian characters (as smooth and wrinkled seed in the pea). — al·le·lic \-ˈlē-lik, -ˈle-\ adjective. — al·lel·ism \-ˈlē-ˌli-zəm, -ˈle-\ noun. 
Diploid organisms have one copy of each gene (and, therefore, one allele) on each chromosome. If both alleles are the same, they and the organism are homozygous with respect to that gene. If the alleles are different, they and the organism are heterozygous with respect to that gene. The word allele is a short form of allelomorph (other form), which was used in the early days of genetics to describe variant forms of a gene detected as different phenotypes. The frequency of alleles in a diploid population can be used to predict the frequencies of the corresponding genotypes (see Hardy-Weinberg principle). For a simple model, with two alleles: where p is the frequency of one allele and q is the frequency of the alternative allele, which necessarily sum to unity.
Allele frequency, or gene frequency, is the relative frequency of an allele (variant of a gene) at a particular locus in a population, expressed as a fraction or percentage. Specifically, it is the fraction of all chromosomes in the population that carry that allele. 
Alleles contribute to the organism's phenotype, which is the outward appearance of the organism. Some alleles are dominant or recessive. When an organism is heterozygous at a specific locus and carries one dominant and one recessive allele, the organism will express the dominant phenotype. Alleles can also refer to minor DNA sequence variations between alleles that do not necessarily influence the gene's phenotype.
A gene is a stretch of DNA or RNA that determines a certain trait. Genes mutate and can take two or more alternative forms; an allele is one of these forms of a gene. For example, the gene for eye color has several variations (alleles) such as an allele for blue eye color or an allele for brown eyes. An allele is found at a fixed spot on a chromosome. Chromosomes occur in pairs so organisms have two alleles for each gene — one allele in each chromosome in the pair.
Definition: An allele is an alternative form of a gene (one member of a pair) that is located at a specific position on a specific chromosome. + 2 others found this useful. 