The unit is named after Blaise Pascal, noted for his experiments with a barometer. The name pascal was adopted for the SI unit newton per square metre (N/m 2) by the 14th General Conference on Weights and Measures in 1971. The pascal is also equivalent to the SI unit of energy density, J/m 3. This applies not only to the thermodynamics of pressurized gases, but also to the energy density of electric, magnetic, and gravitational fields.
I'm feeling lucky, show me some random units. The SI prefix giga represents a factor of 10 9, or in exponential notation, 1E9. So 1 gigapascal = 10 9 pascals. The definition of a pascal is as follows: The pascal (symbol Pa) is the SI unit of pressure.It is equivalent to one newton per square metre. The unit is named after Blaise Pascal, the eminent French mathematician, physicist and philosopher. 
The SI prefix giga represents a factor of 10 9, or in exponential notation, 1E9. So 1 gigapascal = 10 9 pascals. The definition of a pascal is as follows: The pascal (symbol Pa) is the SI unit of pressure.It is equivalent to one newton per square metre. The unit is named after Blaise Pascal, the eminent French mathematician, physicist and philosopher. You can find metric conversion tables for SI units, as well as English units, currency, and other data. Type in unit symbols, abbreviations, or full names for units of length, area, mass, pressure, and other types.
The pascal (symbol: Pa) is the SI derived unit of pressure, internal pressure, stress, Young's modulus and ultimate tensile strength, defined as one newton per square metre. It is named after the French polymath Blaise Pascal. The pascal is also equivalent to the SI unit of energy density, J/m 3. This applies not only to the thermodynamics of pressurized gases, but also to the energy density of electric, magnetic, and gravitational fields.
The pascal can be expressed using SI derived units, or alternatively solely SI base units, as: where N is the newton, m is the metre, kg is the kilogram and s is the second. The pascal is also equivalent to the SI unit of energy density, J/m 3. This applies not only to the thermodynamics of pressurized gases, but also to the energy density of electric, magnetic, and gravitational fields.
The SI derived unit for pressure is the pascal. 1 gigapascal is equal to 1000000000 pascal. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between gigapascals and pascals. You can find metric conversion tables for SI units, as well as English units, currency, and other data. Type in unit symbols, abbreviations, or full names for units of length, area, mass, pressure, and other types.
Common multiple units of the pascal are the hectopascal (1 hPa ≡ 100 Pa) which is equal to 1 mbar, the kilopascal (1 kPa ≡ 1000 Pa), the megapascal (1 MPa ≡ 1,000,000 Pa), and the gigapascal (1 GPa ≡ 1,000,000,000 Pa). The pascal is also equivalent to the SI unit of energy density, J/m 3. This applies not only to the thermodynamics of pressurized gases, but also to the energy density of electric, magnetic, and gravitational fields.
To: 1 gigapascal [GPa] = 1 x 10 +9 pascal [Pa]. A gigapascal (GPa) is a decimal multiple of the pascal, which is the SI derived unit of pressure, stress, Young’s modulus and ultimate tensile strength. It is a measure of force per unit area, defined as one newton per square meter. Pressure is the ratio of force to the area over which that force is distributed. In other words, pressure is force per unit area applied in a direction perpendicular to the surface of an object. Pressure may be measured in any unit of force divided by any unit of area. The SI unit of pressure is the pascal (Pa).