Phosphofructokinase-1 (PFK-1) is one of the most important regulatory enzymes (EC 2.7.1.11) of glycolysis. It is an allosteric enzyme made of 4 subunits and controlled by many activators and inhibitors. PFK is able to regulate glycolysis through allosteric inhibition, and in this way, the cell can increase or decrease the rate of glycolysis in response to the cell’s energy requirements. For example, a high ratio of ATP to ADP will inhibit PFK and glycolysis. The key difference between the regulation of PFK in eukaryotes and prokaryotes is that in eukaryotes PFK is activated by fructose-2,6-bisphosphate
Mechanism and Regulation of Phosphofructokinase. Phosphofructokinase binds both Mg2+-ATP and fructose-6-phosphate (F6P) to make fructose-1,6-bisphosphate and Mg2+-ADP. Although the image with both of these products has not been determined, bound to the enzyme has been. There are three ligand binding sites per subunit. PFK is regulated by ATP, AMP, and ADP. While ATP binds at the active site equally well in both R and T states, it preferentially binds the allosteric site of the T state This preferential binding causes a shift from equilibrium of the two states, to a greater amount of T state.
This enzyme catalyses the rate-limiting phosphorylation of fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate, using ATP as the energy source. Phosphofructokinase is allosterically regulated by 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) (Layzer et al, 1969). 
Introduction. Phosphofructokinase (PFK) is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the irreversible transfer of a phosphate from ATP to fructose-6-phosphate: fructose-6-phosphate + ATP fructose-1,6-bisphosphate + ADP. In part because of the irreversible nature of this step in glycolysis, PFK is the key regulatory enzyme for glycolysis. When ATP levels are high in the cell, the cell no longer needs metabolic energy production to occur. In this case, PFK's activity is inhibited by allosteric regulation by ATP itself, closing the valve on the flow of carbohydrates through glycolysis. Recall that allosteric regulators bind to a different site on the enzyme than the active (catalytic) site
PFK-1 catalyzes the important committed step of glycolysis, the conversion of fructose 6-phosphate and ATP to fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and ADP. Glycolysis is the foundation for respiration, both anaerobic and aerobic. Because phosphofructokinase (PFK) catalyzes the ATP-dependent phosphorylation to convert fructose-6-phosphate into fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and ADP, it is one of the key regulatory and rate limiting steps of glycolysis. PFK is able to regulate glycolysis through allosteric inhibition, and in this way, the cell can increase or decrease the rate of glycolysis in response to the cell’s energy requirements. For example, a high ratio of ATP to ADP will inhibit PFK and glycolysis. The key difference between the regulation of PFK in eukaryotes and prokaryotes is that in eukaryotes PFK is activated by fructose-2,6-bisphosphate
For example, ATP allosterically inhibits phosphofructokinase, but it activates the functionally opposite enzyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (see slide 7.5.3). Similarly, phosphorylation inhibits glycogen synthase but activates glycogen phosphorylase, which degrades glycogen (slide 8.4.1). Allosteric regulation of phosphofructokinase by AMP. To accomplish the stimulation of phosphofructokinase, AMP interacts with the enzyme at an allosteric binding site, that is, a site that is distant and functionally distinct from the active site.
(Note the thick arrow in thediagram.)The most important regulator of phosphofructokinase is fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, which is produced by a separate enzyme. Fructose-2,6-bisphosphateincreases the affinity of phosphofructokinase for fructose-6-phosphate, and thusacts as a critically important stimulator. ATP inhibits phosphofructokinase,because high levels of ATP indicate that the cell has sufficient energy.Phosphofructokinase is also inhibited by citrate. While glucose-6-phosphate can be used for a number of other pathways,and the phosphoglucoisomerase reaction is freely reversible, the compound fructose-1,6-bisphosphate is committed to glycolysis. Phosphofructokinase is the primarycontrol point for glycolysis, and is tightly regulated.
One enzyme that utilizes this reaction is phosphofructokinase (PFK), which catalyses the phosphorylation of fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6- bisphosphate, a key regulatory step in the glycolytic pathway. The identical tetramer subunits adopt 2 different conformations: in a 'closed' state, the bound magnesium ion bridges the phosphoryl groups of the enzyme products (ADP and fructose-1,6- bisphosphate); and in an 'open' state, the magnesium ion binds only the ADP, as the 2 products are now further apart.
Phosphofructokinase (PFK) is an important enzyme in virtually all living cells. It performs the committed step in the glycolytic pathway, namely, the conversion of fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate. Glycolysis is a pathway that uses glucose to maintain a steady amount of ATP, the major energy carrier in living cells. Phosphofructokinase is a multisubunit protein. In such proteins, the subunits may behave cooperatively; that is, the activity of one subunit influences the activity of all the other subunits. An especially notable example of an allosteric protein is hemoglobin, which is an oxygen-transport protein rather than an enzyme. The activity of an allosteric enzyme such as PFK can be regulated by the binding of a small molecule that acts as an activator or inhibitor.