Australia Edit. Oast houses are often called hop kilns in Australia. Tasmania is a major hop-growing area, as were parts of Victoria. During the nineteenth century some of the Kentish hop growers emigrated, and took hops with them. An agreement for the building of an oast in Flimwell in 1667 gave the size of the building as 30 by 15 feet (9.1 by 4.6 m) and another to be built there was to be built in 1671 being 32 by 16 feet (9.8 by 4.9 m) or 17 feet (5.2 m), having two kilns.
Oast houses with cowl at Chainhurst Farm. Oast houses are very typical of the Weald of Kent. During the 16th century they were little more than small single storey buildings where the hops were laid on the floor to dry. By the 18th century oasts had a slatted upper floor where the hops were laid and they were vented through the gaps in the roof tiles. The 19th century saw the development of the typical oast house such as the one shown here at Chainhurst Farm and many were built in Victorian times peaking in 1878 when production of hops was at its height.
A traditional oast. An oast, oast house or hop kiln is a building designed for kilning (drying) hops as part of the brewing process. They can be found in most hop-growing (and former hop-growing) areas and are often good examples of vernacular architecture. Many redundant oasts have been converted into houses. An agreement for the building of an oast in Flimwell in 1667 gave the size of the building as 30 by 15 feet (9.1 by 4.6 m) and another to be built there was to be built in 1671 being 32 by 16 feet (9.8 by 4.9 m) or 17 feet (5.2 m), having two kilns.
Welcome. Welcome to the Oast House hop farm. We are a small start up hop farm in central New Jersey. Our focus has been to provide a sustainable growth farm that relies on resources already existing on the property. 
The earliest surviving oast house is that at Cranbrook near Tunbridge Wells which dates to 1750 but the process is documented from soon after the introduction of hops into England in the early 16th century. Square oast houses appeared early in the 20th century as they were found to be easier to build. In the 1930s, the cowls were replaced by louvred openings as electric fans and diesel oil ovens were employed. Hops are today dried industrially and the many oast houses on farms have now been converted into dwellings.
The history of oast houses can be explored further at The Kent Oast House and Hop Garden. http://www.digiserve.com/peter/oast.htm. For visitors to Kent who are interested in the history of hop growing, these are the best places to visit: The Museum of Kent Life features the last working traditional oast in the country. On any visit to the Garden of England you are bound to see an oast house in the distance, or beside the road. Taking the time to understand these monuments to agricultural industrialisation is well worth the effort. More Information: The history of hop growing could fill several books.
One of the most familiar sights to travelers in southeast England is the distinctive conical or pyramid-shaped oast house. These oast houses are a reminder of Britain's once thriving brewing industry. Ale has been brewed in England since Roman times if not earlier, and for more than a millennia after every house would have brewed its own ale as a matter of course. Each inn brewed its own distinctive beverage. 
An oast, oast house or hop kiln is a building designed for kilning (drying) hops as part of the brewing process. They can be found in most hop-growing (and former hop-growing) areas and are often good examples of vernacular architecture. Many redundant oasts have been converted into houses. Square oast houses appeared early in the 20th century as they were found to be easier to build. In the 1930s, the cowls were replaced by louvred openings as electric fans and diesel oil ovens were employed. Hops are today dried industrially and the many oast houses on farms have now been converted into dwellings.