Some investigators had hypothesized that P. falciparum was a variant of a parasite found in chickens; most argued that chimpanzee and human malarias co-evolved from a common ancestor several million years ago. In fact, the genetic data suggests that P. falciparum is a mutated form of P. reichenowi. When we looked at the branching pattern, we found [humans and chimps] did share a common ancestor from about five [million] to seven
At the close of the 20th century, malaria remained endemic in more than 100 countries throughout the tropical and subtropical zones, including large areas of Central and South America, Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Republic), Africa, the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and Oceania. A widespread and potentially lethal human infectious disease, at its peak malaria infested every continent, except Antarctica. Various scientists and scientific journals, including Nature and National Geographic, have theorized that malaria may have killed around or above half of all humans who have ever lived.
Malaria is rare in the United States. It is most often found in Africa, Southern Asia, Central America, and South America. Malaria is caused by a bite from a mosquito infected with parasites. In very rare cases, people can get malaria if they come into contact with infected blood. A developing fetus may get the disease from its mother.
More generally, your question could be read as asking where does malaria come from geographically—malaria is actually distributed over most of the world, and at some point or another has been found on all continents except Antarctica. 
There are four types of human malaria: Plasmodium vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale and P. falciparum. P. vivax and P. falciparum are the most common forms. Falciparum malaria—the most deadly type—is most common in sub-Saharan Africa, where it causes nearly a million deaths a year. 
... show more if you say from a mosquito bite of infected mosquito:~ where did the person who infected the mosquito get malaria in the first place ~ in my case no one in my family or neigborhood has malaria but i do ..how come. excuse my english all answers are apreciated!!! Follow. if you say from a mosquito bite of infected mosquito:~ where did the person who infected the mosquito get malaria in the first place. ~ in my case no one in my family or neigborhood has malaria but i do ..how come. excuse my english all answers are apreciated!!! Add your answer. Source.
Malaria parasites belong to the genus Plasmodium (phylum Apicomplexa). In humans, malaria is caused by P. falciparum, P. malariae, P. ovale, P. vivax and P. knowlesi. Among those infected, P. falciparum is the most common species identified (~75%) followed by P. vivax (~20%). The parasites travel to the liver where they mature and reproduce. Five species of Plasmodium can infect and be spread by humans. Most deaths are caused by P. falciparum because P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae generally cause a milder form of malaria.
The history of malaria stretches from its prehistoric origin as a zoonotic disease in the primates of Africa through to the 21st century. A widespread and potentially lethal human infectious disease, at its peak malaria infested every continent, except Antarctica. Various scientists and scientific journals, including Nature and National Geographic, have theorized that malaria may have killed around or above half of all humans who have ever lived.
Most malaria infections cause symptoms like the flu, such as a high fever, chills, and muscle pain. Symptoms tend to come and go in cycles. Some types of malaria may cause more serious problems, such as damage to the heart, lungs, kidneys, or brain. These types can be deadly. It is most often found in Africa, Southern Asia, Central America, and South America. Malaria is caused by a bite from a mosquito infected with parasites. In very rare cases, people can get malaria if they come into contact with infected blood. A developing fetus may get the disease from its mother.
bugs from southwest asia. -Unknown-Malaria has been infecting humans for at least 50,000 years, and may have existed as a pathogen in other species for even longer. For this reason it is impossible to know where the first cases of malaria appeared. While the earliest references to a malaria-like illness come from China, that is by no means an indication that malaria originated in Asia. The origin of the word malaria is that ,it is an Italian word and in Italian language (mal) means bad and (aria) mean air they named this disease malaria because they thought … that it is cause of 'bad air. Komal Naeem. Answered.