In the alligators and caimans, this tooth fits into a socket in the upper jaw when the jaws are closed, such that its tip is hidden. There are seven extant alligatorid species, divided amongst four genera (Alligator, Caiman, Melanosuchus, Palpebrosus). Alligators and caimans. Alligatorids tend to have broad snouts, which are often referred to as being shovel-shaped. The upper jaw is so broad that when the jaws are closed many of the teeth of the lower jaw fit into sockets along the edge of the expanded upper jaw.
The order has three families: Alligatoridae, Crocodylidae, and Gavialidae. Alligators and caimans are in the alligator family; crocodiles are in the crocodile family; and the Indian gharial is in the gavial family. The differences among them seem pretty small, compared to the differences among members of, say, the carnivores. Best Answer: Crocodiles typically thrive in saltwater environments and are very aggressive when in comparison to alligators and caimans. Also, the teeth of a croc are visible even when the mouth is closed. Crocodiles also have stubbier, stouter snouts that alligators. Alligators typically thrive in freshwater environments and anatomy-wise, their eyes are more dorsal than a crocodile's and they have longer, more narrow snout
Caimans tend to be more agile and crocodile-like in their movements, and have longer, sharper teeth than alligators. C. crocodilus, the spectacled caiman, has the widest distribution, from southern Mexico to the northern half of Argentina, and grows to a modest size of about 2.2 m (7 ft). Black caimans grow to 16.5 ft (5 m), with the largest recorded size 5.79 m (19 ft). The black caiman and American alligator are the only members of the alligator family that pose the same danger to humans as the larger species of the crocodile family.
Caimans inhabit Central and South America. They are relatively small crocodilians, with the smallest being Cuvier's dwarf caiman (Paleosuchus palpebrosus), which grows to 1 m (3 ft) long, and the largest being the black caiman (Melanosuchus niger), which can grow to 4 m (13 ft) or more. 
Regardless of their role, they're very good at telling apart crocodile skin from alligator skin. Crocodile and alligator skin wallets, handbags, boots etc are easy to tell apart-if the scales have a small spot or dimple close to the edge, you know the skin is from a crocodile and not an alligator or caiman. Shape of the jaw: The easiest way of telling apart crocodiles from alligators, however, is to look at their noses. Alligators (and caimans) have a wide U-shaped, rounded snout (like a shovel), whereas crocodiles tend to have longer and more pointed V-shaped noses.
Differences between Crocodiles, Alligators and Caimans. Crocodiles are often mistaken for alligators and caimans. While they are similar there are significant differences among them. Those differences are enough to put them all into different families when it comes to the scientific categorization. The snout is the biggest difference with the crocodile and the alligator. 