Eating breakfast presents an opportunity to choose foods that may boost your memory further. Omega-3 fatty acids, like those found in ground flaxseed, may help improve memory, says the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Add ground flaxseed to cereal or yogurt to increase your intake of omega-3 fats.
Salt is a very small but important component of some breakfast cereals. It is used to enhance flavour, and improve texture. Breakfast cereals on average contribute a very small proportion of salt in the diet only 2% (NDNS) - on average they contain only 0.241g of sodium per 100g.
Attention, children: Do not skip breakfast — or your grades could pay a price. Evidence suggests that eating breakfast really does help kids learn. After fasting all night, a developing body (and brain) needs a fresh supply of glucose — or blood sugar. That's the brain's basic fuel.
This may help you if you are trying to lose weight. [1]. Cereal fibre has important water retaining properties that help prevent constipation and keep the large intestines healthy. Breakfast cereals play an important role in providing dietary fibre and the richest sources are bran, wholegrain and oat-based cereals.
Whole grains inside. Our breakfast cereals are made with whole grain. Whole grain is an important part of a balanced diet. So whether you are young or old, we have a breakfast cereal to suit your lifestyle and give you a good start to the day. More on whole grain...
A bowl of whole-grain cereal (cold or oatmeal), preferably with nuts, milk, fresh fruit. Whole-wheat toast, 1 or 2 eggs, milk, fresh fruit. What to avoid: Any concentrated sweets that are eaten alone. These would include sugared cereals, fruit juice alone or breakfast pastries alone.
The role of breakfast cereals in a balanced diet has been recognized for many years (1 – 3). Dietary guidelines note that the high nutrient density of breakfast cereals (especially those that are whole grain or high in cereal fiber) makes them an important source of key nutrients (4).