Casein protein powder is not the only type of supplement that contains helpful amino acids. Whey protein, for instance, also can be used to increase muscle mass. Although whey protein is digested rapidly, casein powder is processed slowly and can remain in the stomach for several hours.
Casein protein powder can be used in many applications just like the myriad of other protein powders. Many people like the convenience of having something available on the go so just mixing casein in sufficient fluid (roughly 8oz fluid for every 25g of protein content) with a spoon/blender/shaker is adequate.
You just mix some form of protein powder (whey, casein, etc.) with some form of liquid (water, milk, etc.) and taaadaaa… you instantly have yourself a drinkable high protein meal (aka a protein shake).
Casein protein is a high quality form of protein that contains all the essential amino acids. Unlike whey protein, casein protein powder is digested more slowly by the body and provides a steady stream of amino acids to the muscles, long after whey proteins have dropped off. Casein protein has a biological value of 77.
Whey and casein are dairy proteins found in milk – casein is the “curds” in “curds and whey” (think: cottage cheese). Whey is considered a “fast” protein, because it is rapidly digested in as little as an hour, whereas casein is a “slow” protein that is digested over several hours.
Casein as a powder is used to make workout protein shakes and comes in a variety of flavors. What it'll do for you: There aren't necessarily benefits of casein protein powder, cautions Currie, especially since most people's protein needs can be met with food alone..
Micellar casein, on the other hand, is a slow releasing protein and doesn’t get as much of a mention as whey protein, hence this article. It’s no secret that protein intake plays an important role in building muscle and muscle repair. Deciding what the best source of protein is however can be a challenge.
Phosphoprotein is a core component of casein protein powder. This supplement contains a high amount of phosphoric acid, which is important for muscle function. This supplement is also very high in glutamine, an amino acid that helps preserve muscle mass and improve the human immune system.
I prefer not to use protein powders that combine fast and slow absorbing proteins. Instead the best protein powder to use is Optimum 100% Whey Protein and Optimum 100% Casein Protein at different times of the day for maximum benefit. My UK friends really rate MyProtein.
Casein protein powder is a nutritional supplement that is commonly used by fitness enthusiasts and bodybuilders to help them gain muscle mass. The term casein comes from the Latin word caseus, which means cheese.. Casein is a natural type of protein that is found in both human milk and cow milk.