Re: mixer vs audio interface. There's USB, USB2 and Firewire (and PCI and ethernet I guess). USB is only really reliable for a maximum of two input channels simultaneously. It just can't handle the bandwidth of more, especially when you're monitoring back too. USB2 and Firewire can handle much more.
4732880. also realize a usb mixer IS an audio interface. anything that takes audio and puts it into your computer is an interface. just 'cause it has some knobs on it means little beyond what capabilities you want to pay for.
Just as with non-mixer audio interfaces, the more you pay for a mixer (such as the $400 Alesis Multimix 16 USB 2.0 FX), the more recording inputs and channels you get, as well as more effects and higher quality preamps, and filters.
I have a Focusrite Scarlett 2i2 audio interface and a Yamaha MG16/6FX mixer and I am considering to use the Scarlett 2i2 as an interface to a condenser microphone (to be recorded using the USB out).
A good thing about this type of mixer is that is it a full fledged analog mixer without the firewire/USB, so you can use them just like an analog mixer if you like. There is also the possibility of adding one of these as a second audio interface to your system, giving you more i/o.
We need to be clear what is meant by 'mixer' and 'interface' in the context of the OP's original question. An 'interface' is a fancy word for a sound card that is designed specifically for recording (as opposed to one that is supplied to do general purpose audio, or audio for games).
Hey, so can someone please explain the difference between recording with a mixer vs. an audio interface.... from what I understand, the only significant difference is that with the mixer you have hands on control over the mixing with a piece of hardware, whereas with the interface you do all the mixing on your computer.
USB mixers vs. audio interfaces. If you're wondering why anyone would buy anything other than a USB mixer when you can pick one up for roughly the same price as a non-mixer audio interface, space considerations and portability factor in to the decision.