Plants use sunlight for photosynthesis. Plants use sunlight for photosynthesis. The definition of photosynthesis is the process through which plants use water and carbon dioxide to create their food, grow and release excess oxygen into the air.
In photosynthetic organisms, NADPH is produced by ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase in the last step of the electron chain of the light reactions of photosynthesis. It is used as reducing power for the biosynthetic reactions in the Calvin cycle to assimilate carbon dioxide. 
NADPH. During the Light Dependent Cycle of photosynthesis, light is absorbed by the chlorophyll. The electrons are excited, which starts them moving from one enzyme to another. A hydrogen atom attaches itself to an NADP molecule, converting it to NADPH.
NADPH is the source of electrons for glucose biosynthesis. C. ATP is the energy source for glucose biosynthesis. ~ , an electron acceptor, provides reducing power via energized electrons to the Calvin cycle. Water is split in the process, and O2 is released as a by-product. 
Energy from sunlight, water absorbed by the roots, and carbon dioxide from the atmosphere produce glucose and oxygen by photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants and other things make food. It is a chemical process that uses sunlight to turn carbon dioxide into sugars the cell can use as energy.
This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek φῶς, phōs, light, and σύνθεσις, synthesis, putting together. In most cases, oxygen is also released as a waste product. Photosynthesis occurs in two stages. In the first stage, light-dependent reactions or light reactions capture the energy of light and use it to make the energy-storage molecules ATP and NADPH. During the second stage, the light-independent reactions use these products to capture and reduce carbon dioxide.
Photosynthesis Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce glucose from carbon dioxide and water. This glucose can be converted into pyruvate which releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by cellular respiration. Oxygen is also formed.
Hydrogen, along with electrons energized by light, convert NADP into NADPH which is then used in the light-independent reactions. Oxygen diffuses out of the plant as a waste product of photosynthesis and ATP is synthesized from ADP and inorganic phosphate. This all happens in the grana of chloroplasts. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants and other things make food. It is a chemical process that uses sunlight to turn carbon dioxide into sugars the cell can use as energy.
The NAD carries a Phosphate in the form of NADP, and at some point releases it to ADP to convert it to ATP. The Hydrogen ions resulting from the split of the water molecule is also carried by NADP in the form of NADPH. NADPH goes to the Calvin cycle. The Hydrogens are released by the NADPH (converting it back to NADP) and can be used to produce a carbohydrate in the Calvin cycle.
NADPH is reduced NADP (Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate) and is used as a reducing agent. NADPH oxidises to form NADP. In plants, NADP is reduced in the last step of the electron chain of the light reactions of photosynthesis. The NADPH produced is then used as a reducing agent in the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis. NADPH is used in catabolic processes