SafeMSI.exe is a tiny, portable, freeware application designed to let you uninstall programs in safe mode. When the computer is in safe mode, the Windows Installer service isn’t started so most programs can’t be uninstalled. Error 1084: This service cannot be started in Safe Mode” . This tool will do a registry tweak so that Windows Installer is made a safe service and it will launch the Windows Installer service.
Or you can attempt System Restore (which also works in Safe mode, if you had it enabled on your system) to rollback the system to a time before the installation of the offending software. Windows Installer service relies on other stuff, which is also not available in safe mode. 
Important If you do install a service pack or update while Windows is running in Safe mode, immediately reinstall it after you start Windows normally. Microsoft recommends that you do not remove Windows service packs or hotfix updates when Windows is running in Safe mode. Microsoft has the following recommendations for the installation of service packs and hotfixes when your computer does not function in normal mode: Microsoft recommends that you do not install Windows service packs or hotfix updates when Windows is running in Safe mode. When you install a service pack or hotfix, the Setup program determines which devices are installed in the computer and which Windows components are enabled
Once in safe mode, you can disable or delete a system service, a device driver, or automatically started application that is preventing the computer from starting normally. To use a safe mode option, restart your computer, and then press F8 when you see the Boot menu. 
Reboot back into Safe Mode, and the Windows Installer service should now run and allow you to add or remove programs in Safe Mode.If you STILL can't boot after uninstalling your product at this point, _THEN_ you might want to consider a repair install or a rebuild. That is going on my list of reg tweaks. 4. Reboot back into Safe Mode, and the Windows Installer service should now run and allow you to add or remove programs in Safe Mode. If you STILL can't boot after uninstalling your product at this point, _THEN_ you might want to consider a repair install or a rebuild. 1  Back to top.
When you attempt to start Windows Installer in Safe Mode, you receive: Error 1084: This service cannot be started in Safe Mode. To start Windows Installer in Safe Mode : 1. Restart your computer and press F8 before the Boot Menu or splash screen. 2. Open a CMD.EXE window.
I traced the problem to a particular program but when I tried to uninstall it in safe mode, I was unabe to because the windows installer service is unavailable in safe mode by default. The following commands will add the windows installer service back to your safe mode (with networking) session. Just copy and paste them into the run-line: REG ADD HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SafeBoot\Network\MSIServer /VE /T REG_SZ /F /D Service. 
Since technicians do a lot of work in safe mode and being unable to uninstall is a huge bother. It is also not possible to start the service manually, an error message will come up saying “Could not start the Windows Installer service on Local Computer. Error 1084: This service cannot be started in Safe Mode” . This tool will do a registry tweak so that Windows Installer is made a safe service and it will launch the Windows Installer service.
Download and run the zip file after booting the computer in safe mode or safe mode with networking, as soon as the file gets executed you computer will be able to install or uninstall software. This piece of code has been tested on all editions of Windows XP, Windows Vista and also Windows 7 operating system. Short Summary. -Start the computer in Safe mode with networking by continuously hitting F8 from the boot up. -Download the above zip from the link from your web browser. -Run the file, and windows Installer is enabled. Now you can carry on with troubleshooting.