One century ago, in January 1912, Alfred Wegener presented for the first time his theory of continental drift at a meeting held in Frankfurt, in Germany (*). His theory of continental drift, presented for the first time in January of that year, started a scientific revolution in geology that deeply affected the way we understand how Earth systems work.
Alfred Wegener was the scientist who proposed the Continental Drift Theory in the early twentieth century. Simply put, his hypothesis proposed that the continents had once been joined, and over time had drifted apart. 
Although Wegener's continental drift theory was discarded, it did introduce the idea of moving continents to geoscience. And decades later, scientists would confirm some of Wegener's ideas, such as the past existence of a supercontinent joining all the world's landmasses as one. 1 The Wegener Diaries: A virtual exhibition on Alfred Wegener's expeditions to Greenland between 1906 and 1931. 2  Plate tectonics animations: Watch the continents drift to their present positions, provided by the U.S Geological Survey.
The theory of continental drift was not accepted for many years. One problem was that a plausible driving force was missing. A second problem was that Wegener's estimate of the velocity of continental motion, 250 cm/year, was implausibly high. (The currently accepted rate for the separation of the Americas from Europe and Africa is about 2.5 cm/year). And it did not help that Wegener was not a geologist.
Alfred Wegener (1880 - 1930). Alfred Wegener proposed the theory of continental drift at the beginning of the 20th century. His idea was that the Earth's continents were once joined together, but gradually moved apart over millions of years. This slideshow explains Wegener's theory. Earth around 200 million years ago, at the time of Pangaea. Wegener’s evidence for continental drift was that: 1  the same types of fossilised animals and plants are found in South America and Africa.
Though first proposed by American geologist Frank Bursley Taylor in a lecture in 1908, the first detailed theory of continental drift was put forth by German meteorologist and geophysicist Alfred Wegener in 1912. 
As late as 1953 – just five years before Carey introduced the theory of plate tectonics – the theory of continental drift was rejected by the physicist Scheidegger on the following grounds. 1  First, it had been shown that floating masses on a rotating geoid would collect at the equator, and stay there. A second problem was that Wegener's estimate of the velocity of continental motion, 250 cm/year, was implausibly high. (The currently accepted rate for the separation of the Americas from Europe and Africa is about 2.5 cm/year). And it did not help that Wegener was not a geologist.
Continental drift was a theory that explained how continents shift position on Earth's surface. Set forth in 1912 by Alfred Wegener, a geophysicist and meteorologist, continental drift also explained why look-alike animal and plant fossils, and similar rock formations, are found on different continents. 1 The Wegener Diaries: A virtual exhibition on Alfred Wegener's expeditions to Greenland between 1906 and 1931. 2  Plate tectonics animations: Watch the continents drift to their present positions, provided by the U.S Geological Survey.
Antonio Snider-Pellegrini's Illustration of the closed and opened Atlantic Ocean (1858). Continental drift is the movement of the Earth's continents relative to each other, thus appearing to drift across the ocean bed. The speculation that continents might have 'drifted' was first put forward by Abraham Ortelius in 1596. A second problem was that Wegener's estimate of the velocity of continental motion, 250 cm/year, was implausibly high. (The currently accepted rate for the separation of the Americas from Europe and Africa is about 2.5 cm/year). And it did not help that Wegener was not a geologist.
Best Answer: Hi Beer! Continental drift began when the first mini-continents (called cratons) formed over two billion years ago. It wil end either when the earth runs out of internal heat or when continents squeeze out the last of the sea floor. Source(s): Anne Marie · 9 years ago.