How Long Does Hatching Take. Hatching can take place over several days. For chickens, run the incubator for 24 days (3 days more than normal hatch time). For ducks and turkeys run the incubator for 32 days (4 days more than normal hatch time). It is better not to help a chick/duckling/poult crack out of its shell. If you do, they almost always die (unless you follow the instructions in the next paragraphs)
This is often a worry to novice breeders. Once the chick starts to peep or break open the shell it can take as long as 24 hours to complete the job. Chicks to not usually start and complete the task without a rest since it is such a hard job. For a chicken, it takes 21 days … from the time the egg is laid to the time the chick hatches. The embryo needs food, water and oxygen to grow, so thin red blood vessels spread out from this spot over the yolk and then all around the inside of the shell.
This is my 1st ever attempt at hatching and I know nothing! So I have a pip or a peck spot in one of the eggs this am. How long in general does it take for a chick to hatch out? When is a time to intervene? 
Report Abuse. Hi, Eggs can take up to 48 hours to hatch, but usually once chipped out, only a matter of minutes. The most important thing to remember Do Not open the incubator while the hatching is in progress, you'll lose all the humidity and chicks will die. · just now. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Once the chick has chipped it's egg ,it will try to get out as quickly as possible,it could take anything from a few minutes to 1 hour any longer then there is not a great chance of survival as the chick will have used up all it's energy.
It takes a chicken 21 days to hatch. Rather it's under a hen or in a incubator. Although if the incubator temperature is a little high,lets say 100.5 - 101 they may hatch a da … y early. If it's to low,lets say 97-98.5 it may take a day longer. One to two days as long as the humidity and temp has been kept. You can sometimes help the chick out as long as it doesn't start bleeding. If so stop and try later. More on this Anytime after the 21 days the developed chicks inside the egg will use their egg tooth to break open the shell in a circle around the inside. Once this is complete the chick will flex its wings and body to separate the shell and emerge from the used egg
It can take anywhere from an hour up to a day for a pipped egg to hatch. Some will pip a bit and then stop for a long time, then finish up all at once in the space of a few minutes. Some will consistently pip until they pop out, within an hour. And anywhere in between. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: To hatch an egg takes around 21 days, and the time between when the chick first breaks the air sac and begins to come out of the shell should be within 24 hours. Some chicks come out quickly, some take alot longer. Usually after 24 hours the struggle is useless and the chick will end up dieing. If it's already halfway out some people will help it. (Not usually a good idea, but for those that won't make it otherwise it's necesary). Once they pierce the shell it can take them 2 to 12 hours. Don't help them it makes them weak. A chick that can't get out on it's own usually has a condition. dogdude1969 · 10 years ago.