Adult Obstructed Reach Requirements. For a forward reach over an obstacle such as a shelf the requirement is 48 inches maximum above the floor for obstacles 20 inches or less in depth, and 44 inches maximum for obstacles 20 to 25 inches deep. The Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) was signed into law in 1990 to provide standards and requirements for access to public spaces by persons with disabilities.
At the Elementary level, knee clearance should be 24 inches minimum and sink top should be 29 inches maximum. At the Adult level, knee clearance should be 29 inches minimum and sink top should be 34 inches maximum. The ADA Bathroom Sink Height Requirements include a depth maximum of 6.5 inches. The knee clearance should also have a width of 30 inches and depth of 19 inches. The disabled man should be able to position his wheelchair in front of the sink
Spacing to be between 10% and 35% of the character height. C. Line Spacing Spacing between the baselines of separate lines of copy is to be between 135% and 170% of the maximum character height. APCO Requirements for Interior Signs from the new ADA 10% Min.“I” Height30%max. 8. 6. 
Mounting Guidelines -. Mounting of the specified products is integrally important to compliance to ADA. Below you will find the mounting requirements for compliance with ADA in the bathroom. Shower Seats-. L-shaped folding shower seats are required in accessible 36 x 36 (915 x 915mm) shower stalls. 
Drinking Fountains. Drinking fountains that comply with ADA regulations must be no taller than 36 inches, as measured from the floor to the water spout. A clear area of at least 27 inches must be available under the fountain for leg clearance. Counter tops in ADA accessible units or workplaces must be installed 28-34 inches high, as measured from the floor, with the most common height being 32 inches. Knee room consideration is also important.
1 ADA Revised Requirements: Service Animals The Department of Justice published revised final regulations implementing the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) for title II (State and local government services) and title III (public accommodations and commercial facilities) on September 15, 2010, in the Federal Register. 
The so called ADA COMPLIANT toilets are only helpful to TALLER people. I am a short person, and the ADA toilet height requirement is NOT helpful to me. It only makes sense that if something is better for one person, it will be worse for another. The distance between my heel and the back of my knee is 14.5 inches. So, you can figure the math. My feet dangle when I sit on the ADA seat. It is correct that ADA toilets are higher but the other difference is in the size of the goose neck. the ADA has a larger goose neck therefore has a higher flush capacity for the harder bowels which is usually found in the older generation or certain medications.
Height Requirements. The Americans with Disabilities Act does not require specific height ... ADA Requirements for Signs. The Americans with Disabilities Act... Counter tops in ADA accessible units or workplaces must be installed 28-34 inches high, as measured from the floor, with the most common height being 32 inches. Knee room consideration is also important.
The goal of ADA is to provide equal access to bathrooms for the disabled. The ADA has the following categories for knee clearance and sink top height: 1) Kindergarten, 2) Elementary and 3) Adult. At the Kindergarten level, knee clearance should be 19 inches minimum and sink top should be 24 inches maximum. At the Adult level, knee clearance should be 29 inches minimum and sink top should be 34 inches maximum. The ADA Bathroom Sink Height Requirements include a depth maximum of 6.5 inches.
Non-tactile signage must meet certain requirements set forth by the ADA. Signs hung between 40 and 70 inches high, as measured from the floor to the top of the lettering, that are to be viewed at distances of less than 6 feet must contain characters at least 5/8-inch tall. Counter tops in ADA accessible units or workplaces must be installed 28-34 inches high, as measured from the floor, with the most common height being 32 inches. Knee room consideration is also important.