1. Hard-boil the eggs. Place the eggs in a saucepan and fill with enough cool water to cover the eggs by an inch or two. Place the pan over high heat. Once the water reaches a boil, remove the pan from heat, cover and let stand for 10 minutes. → For more detail on cooking eggs, see How to Boil Eggs Perfectly Every Time.
Directions. Place eggs in a large saucepan. Cover them with cool water by 1 inch. Slowly bring water to a boil over medium heat; when the water has reached a boil, cover and remove from heat. Let sit 12 minutes. Transfer eggs to a colander; place under cool running water to stop the cooking. Eggs can be peeled and served immediately.
Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.
Instructions. 1  Hard-boil the eggs: Place the eggs in a saucepan and fill with enough cool water to cover the eggs by an inch or two. 2  Place the pan over high heat. 3  Once the water reaches a boil, remove the pan from heat, cover and let stand for 10 minutes. Place the eggs in a saucepan and fill with enough cool water to cover the eggs by an inch or two. Place the pan over high heat. Once the water reaches a boil, remove the pan from heat, cover and let stand for 10 minutes. → For more detail on cooking eggs, see How to Boil Eggs Perfectly Every Time.
Place the eggs in a single layer in a pan with enough cold water to cover eggs completely. 1  Bring the water to a boil, remove from heat, cover tightly with a lid, and allow to remain in the water approximately 15 to 20 minutes. How To Make Perfect Deviled Eggs: Deviled eggs have their roots in ancient Roman recipes with the first published recipes for stuffed, boiled eggs were from medieval Europe. In the 17th century, this was a common way to prepare eggs. they were not called deviled until the 18th Century, in England.
Directions. Place eggs in a single layer in a saucepan and cover with enough water that there's 1 1/2 inches of water above the eggs. Heat on high until water begins to boil, then cover, turn the heat to low, and cook for 1 minute. Watch how to make this recipe. Place eggs in a single layer in a saucepan and cover with enough water that there's 1 1/2 inches of water above the eggs.
If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.