Illustration depicting ovulation and fertilization. Human fertilization is the union of a human egg and sperm, usually occurring in the ampulla of the uterine tube. The result of this union is the production of a zygote cell, or fertilized egg, initiating prenatal development. Scientists discovered the dynamics of human fertilization in the nineteenth century. The process of fertilization involves a sperm fusing with an ovum.
Best Answer: Hens (female chickens) lay eggs regularly. If the hen has not mated with a rooster, the eggs will look exactly the same as a fertilized egg, but they cannot develop chicks and hatch. A typical flock of chickens consists of many hens and one lucky rooster. Report Abuse. The rooster mates with the hen, and then the hen will produce fertile eggs for up to 4 weeks. The egg isn't fertilized after being layed. Chickens have sex, too. Check the following link for more info. Source(s): http://msucares.com/poultry/reproduction...
When the fertilized egg attaches itself to the uterine wall and begins to produce hCG it is called implantation. This typically occurs between 6 and 8 days after ovulation. The egg is fertilized in the outer part of the fallopian tube, generally within 12 hours of ovulation. After it is fertilized, the egg travels down the fallopian tube. The fertilized egg grows as it travels. It doubles, the grows to four cells and then to eight cells as it enters the uterus. Implantation occurs in the upper third of the uterus. Implantation sometimes can cause bleeding or minor spotting.
The most versatile stem cells occur earliest in life. As a fertilized human egg divides, it first becomes a solid ball of cells, the morula. Next, about five days after fertilization, it becomes a hollow ball, the blastocyst. The cells of the outer layer of the blastocyst eventually form part of the placenta. Inside the ball is a small clump of cells, the inner cell mass, that will form all the tissues in the body. 
The vegetal pole of the egg has the highest concentration of yolk. The animal pole has the lowest concentration and is the area where polar bodies bud off of the cell. The animal pole marks where the most anterior part of the animal will form. 
Confidence votes 198. through sperm that is in semen. it only takes one sperm to fertilize an ova (egg). there are millions of sperm in semen during ejaculation. when a sperm and egg meet and combine successfully, fertilization occurs.
The actual fertilization usually occurs in the fallopian tube.   Fertilization occurs within 12-24 hours after ovulation. Ovulation usually takes place 14 days afte … r your menstruation starts. Ovulation can vary from woman to woman it can happen before day 14 and after; it doesn't always have to be on day 14. it only takes one sperm to fertilize an ova (egg). there are millions of sperm in semen during ejaculation. when a sperm and egg meet and combine successfully, fertilization occurs.
Fertilization: Sperm Penetrates Egg. It takes about 24 hours for a sperm cell to fertilize an egg. When the sperm penetrates the egg, the surface of the egg changes so that no other sperm can enter. At the moment of fertilization, the baby's genetic makeup is complete, including whether it's a boy or girl. 
Human fertilization is the union of a humanoid egg and sperm, usually occurring in the ampulla of the uterine tube. The result of this union is the production of a zygote, or … fertilized egg, initiating prenatal development. Yes. The fertilized egg, or zygote, soon starts to divide, forming a morula, then a blastomere, and then a blastocyst. Once the blastocyst implants on the uterine wall … , it is referred to as an embryo.