Shark teeth are infact made of scales, the same scales which covers it's body, but in case of its teeth it has been enlarged and strenghted. Teeth are made up of 3 hard tissues and 1 soft tissue.   The hard tissues are:    Enamel-The hardest tissue in our body; has a hardness value  of 350-500 KHN (Kno … op Hardness Number)  Dentin-Hard tissue which is harder than bone but not enamel.
The researchers also conducted hardness tests, and found that despite the shark teeth being made of a naturally harder mineral, they were not harder than human teeth; this because the crystal structure of human teeth has a pattern arrangement more suited to hardness. Mole rat dental structure similar to a shark. (PhysOrg.com) -- Sharks are capable of continually growing new teeth. As the teeth age, they fall out and new ones move forward similar to that of a tooth conveyor belt.
A power saw made out of shark teeth, for science. Researchers have combined the teeth of various sharks into what they are calling the Jawzall, a power saw for tearing fish flesh. by Michelle Starr @riding_red /. Katherine Corn. What they found was that the tiger shark's teeth are the most deadly of those tested, breaking the salmon's spine in six cuts; the tiger shark often feasts on difficult prey, such as sea turtles and crustaceans, so deadly teeth are a requirement.
The skin of a shark is made of tiny denticles, which are made of the same enamel that teeth have, meaning they too can fossilize. Some more primitive sharks have spines in their fins that will fossilize. Finally, shark feces, or coprolites, are sometimes found preserved. Additionally, shark teeth can look different between male and female sharks of the same species, from juveniles to adults of the same species, and finally they look different if they are in the upper jaw vs. lower jaw.
Fossil Shark Teeth are one of the few remains we have of ancient sharks. Because their skeletons are made of cartilage instead of bone, the teeth are the only parts that were left behind. Shark like fish have been present in the oceans of the world since the late Paleozoic Era. 
A shark tooth is one of the numerous teeth of a shark. A shark tooth contains resistant calcium phosphate materials. Sharks continually shed their teeth; some Carcharhiniformes shed approximately 35,000 teeth in a lifetime, as well as replace them by producing thousands of more. The most ancient types of sharks date back to 450 million years ago, during the Late Ordovician period, and are mostly known by their fossilised teeth. However, the most commonly found fossil shark teeth are from the Cenozoic era (the last 66 million years).
Shark teeth are made up of calcium phosphate, which is the mineral apatite. Although shark teeth are sturdier than the cartilage that makes up their skeleton, the teeth still … disintegrate over time unless they are fossilized. This is why you rarely find white shark teeth on a beach. 
Fossil Shark Teeth. Shark teeth are made of a solid substance called dentin. This material is slow to decompose, which is part of the reason why fossil shark teeth are so plentiful. When a shark loses a tooth, it ends up on the bottom of the ocean, where it's covered with protective layers of sediment.
July 27, 2012 by Bob Yirka report. (Phys.org) -- German researchers studying shark teeth have found at least two species that have fluorinated calcium phosphate-mineral fluoroapatite, as a main component, one of the main ingredients in toothpaste, which partly explains why sharks dont ever get cavities. Mole rat dental structure similar to a shark. (PhysOrg.com) -- Sharks are capable of continually growing new teeth. As the teeth age, they fall out and new ones move forward similar to that of a tooth conveyor belt.
Shark teeth are the most common type of fossil for a number of reasons. First, shark teeth, like most teeth, are made of dentin, a hard calcified tissue that does not easily decompose. Dentin is harder and denser than bone. In a tooth, the Dentin is surrounded by a very hard enamel shell. Secondly, to maintain a sharp smile, shark teeth are designed to regularly fall out and be replaced. Additionally, shark teeth can look different between male and female sharks of the same species, from juveniles to adults of the same species, and finally they look different if they are in the upper jaw vs. lower jaw.