Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405. The legal drinking age should be lowered to about 18 or 19 and young adults allowed to drink in controlled environments such as restaurants, taverns, pubs and official school and university functions. 
7. Enforcing the 21 year drinking age is expensive and inefficient. It would be more effective to spend money on educating youth about alcohol than to spend it on enforcement of drinking laws for 18- to 20-year-olds. 8. Cons. 1. States that previously lowered the drinking age to 18, such as Massachussets, Michigan, and Maine, experienced an increase in alcohol-related crashes among the 18 to 20 age group. 2.
Proposals to lower the legal drinking age for purchase or service, or for those under 21 in the military have been proposed in Vermont, Missouri, Minnesota, Kentucky, Wisconsin, and South Carolina (each proposal is different). There is little uniformity in the legal drinking age across the rest of the world. Some countries have no law regarding the age one can purchase or consume alcohol; others allow use as early as 16. Few other countries have a legal drinking age of 21. Many countries have laws but little/no enforcement of the law. US students frequently report no restrictions on obtaining alcohol in Mexico, for instance, even at 12-13 years of age
The most important reason why the drinking age should be lowered to 18 years old, is because it has proven itself to work in other countries. For example, Germany's drinking age is http://www.cognac.com/15-reasons-why-drinking-age-should-be-18/ 16 for beer and wine and 18 for liquor and other spirits. To many people's surprise, the number of drinking and driving fatalities in Germany is significantly less than the number in the United States.
9112. There is an argument going about lowering the drinking age to 18 years old. Many parents said that lowering the drinking age to 18 can help their kids become a responsible drinker once they reach the age of 21. However, prior to agreeing, it is essential to know the pros and cons of lowering the drinking age. 
Binge drinking among 8th, 10th and 12th graders has been steadily going down since the drinking age was raised to 21. In 2009, it was at an all-time low for 12th graders, many of whom are 18. In colleges, we haven't made as much progress, but lowering the drinking age is not the answer. Back in the 1970s, a number of states lowered the drinking age from 21 to 18, and we saw an increase in alcohol consumption by youth. When it was raised again in 1984 back to 21, we saw lower consumption of alcohol, and we've kept those low rates. 
Although there would be increases in the 18-20 age demographic in these statistics, these would be offset by reductions in the older age groups. There is no evidence that a 21 drinking age reduces accidents. When the legal age of drinking was set in 1984 on a national basis, the rate of traffic fatalities and accidents decreased less in the United States than it did in countries that currently have lower drinking ages. 
2. There are fewer drunk driving accidents in countries with lower drinking ages. In many countries around the world, the legal drinking age is already 18. In these countries, they have seen a greater reduction of drunken driving accidents than the United States, where the legal age is 21. 