In astronomy, the geocentric model (also known as geocentrism, or the Ptolemaic system) is a description of the cosmos where Earth is at the orbital center of all celestial bodies. The second observation supporting the geocentric model was that the Earth does not seem to move from the perspective of an Earth-bound observer, and that it is solid, stable, and unmoving.
The geocentric theory was the model that the earth is at the center of the universe, and everything (sun, stars,moon,ect.) revolve around it daily. It was disproven about 500 … years ago by Copernipus in favor of the heliocentric model which said that the earth went around the sun. Geo means earth, and centric means centered.. The geocentric view is therefore the earth centered view. The word typically refers to the view of the earth as the ce … nter of the universe. The earth is the center of human interest. Beyond that the earth/moon system isn't the center of anything.
A Geocentric theory is an astronomical theory which describes the universe as a Geocentric system, i.e., a system which puts the Earth in the center of the universe, and describes other objects from the point of view of the Earth. 
Geocentric model. The geocentric model of the cosmos is a paradigm which places the Earth at the center of the universe. Common in ancient Greece, it was believed by both Aristotle and Ptolemy. Most Greeks assumed that the Sun, Moon, stars, and planets orbit Earth. Similar ideas were held in ancient China. The geocentric model was gradually replaced by the heliocentric model of Copernicus and Galileo due to the simplicity and predictive accuracy of that newer model. In this model, a set of fifty-five concentric crystalline spheres were considered to hold the Sun, the planets, and the stars.
The geocentric model, also known as the Ptolemaic system, is a theory that was developed by philosophers in Ancient Greece and was named after the philosopher Claudius Ptolemy who lived circa 90 to 168 A.D. It was developed to explain how the planets, the Sun, and even the stars orbit around the Earth. Copernicus proposed a heliocentric model of the solar system – a model where everything orbited around the Sun. Today, with advancements in science and technology, the geocentric model seems preposterous. Simple tools, such as the telescope – which helped convince Galileo that the Earth was not the center of the universe – can prove that ancient theory incorrect
The geocentric model of our solar system is how people believed the universe to be hundreds of years ago, in which the Earth was the center of the universe, and the sun and in … ner planets orbited the Earth. Wikipedia has plenty more information on this. Geo means earth, and centric means centered.. The geocentric view is therefore the earth centered view. The word typically refers to the view of the earth as the ce … nter of the universe. The earth is the center of human interest. Beyond that the earth/moon system isn't the center of anything.
• In the geocentric model, the earth is considered as the center of the universe, and all celestial bodies move around the earth (planets, moon, sun and the stars). • In the heliocentric model, the sun is considered as the center of the universe, and the celestial bodies move around the sun. The early heliocentric models consider the sun as the center, and the planets revolve around the sun. More about Geocentric. The most predominant theory of the structure of the universe in the ancient world was the geocentric model.
Ancient Roman and medieval philosophers usually combined the geocentric model with a spherical Earth. It is not the same as the older flat Earth model implied in some mythology, as was the case with the biblical and postbiblical Latin cosmology. The second observation supporting the geocentric model was that the Earth does not seem to move from the perspective of an Earth-bound observer, and that it is solid, stable, and unmoving.
Heliocentric and geocentric are two explanations of the configuration of the universe, including the solar system. The geocentric model says that the earth is at the center of the cosmos, and the planets, the sun and the moon, and the stars circles around it. The early heliocentric models consider the sun as the center, and the planets revolve around the sun. More about Geocentric. The most predominant theory of the structure of the universe in the ancient world was the geocentric model.