Please try again later. To folks around Bowie, Maryland, the Goatman is a legendary creature who stalks the woods, mauling animals, scaring people, and generally causing mayhem. To the makers of this British documentary, he's a little bit more... 1  Travel & Events.
1,042 pages on this wiki. The Goatman is a hominid cryptid most commonly associated with Louisiana, Maryland and Texas. It is described as a seven foot tall hybrid creature; part man and part goat. Some claim it is a relative of the New Orleans evil chupacabra-like cryptid the Grunch. Said to be seven feet tall and a deranged cow, the Proctor Valley Monster provides numerous evidence for Goatman including a footprint. The legend of the Proctor Valley Monster grew, and it is described as a 7-foot hairy humanoid like a Bigfoot, or sometimes a cow-like animal with its body parts in the wrong place.
1 Goatman (Texas) — An American legend of a part man part goat cryptid which originates from Lake Worth, Texas. 2  Also known as the Lake Worth monster. Goatman (Wisconsin) a creature believed to live in and around Washington county, wi. 1  Goatse.cx — shock website. 2  Baphomet — A sigil similar to that of the Tao in principle, it's common goatman-like imagery is derived from 19th Century illustrations of the Sabbatic Goat. 3  Ches McCartney — US traveller.
1 Goatman (Maryland) — An American legend of a part man part goat cryptid which originates from Maryland. 2  Goatman (Texas) — An American legend of a part man part goat cryptid which originates from Lake Worth, Texas. 3  Also known as the Lake Worth monster. Goatman (Wisconsin) a creature believed to live in and around Washington county, wi. 1  Goatse.cx — shock website. 2  Baphomet — A sigil similar to that of the Tao in principle, it's common goatman-like imagery is derived from 19th Century illustrations of the Sabbatic Goat. 3  Ches McCartney — US traveller.
The Goat man is a hominid cryptid most commonly associated with Louisiana, Maryland and Texas. It is described as a hybrid creature; part man and part goat. Some claim it is a relative of the New Orleans evil cupacabra like cryptid the Grunch. According to Erin Early, author of http://www.othersidesociety.com/, the Pope Lick goat man is an urban legend of sorts centered around a railroad trestle in eastern Jefferson County, Kentucky, just outside of Louisville.
The Goatman of Maryland refers to a legendary half-goat half-human cryptid that has the head and hindquarters of a goat and the body of a human. 
1,230 pages on this wiki. The Maryland Goatman is a cryptid located in the Prince Georges County, Maryland. It was first sighted in 1973, and since then various other sightings have been made. The creature itself has been described as a half-human, half-goat being, with a goat's head, human-esque arms and torso, and human legs with hooves.
Goatman may refer to: 1  Goatman (Kentucky) — Also known as the Pope Lick Monster, a part-man, part goat legendary creature that resides in the Pope Lick train trestle in Louisville, Kentucky. 2  Goatman (Maryland) — An American legend of a part man part goat cryptid which originates from Maryland. Goatman (Wisconsin) a creature believed to live in and around Washington county, wi. 1  Goatse.cx — shock website. 2  Baphomet — A sigil similar to that of the Tao in principle, it's common goatman-like imagery is derived from 19th Century illustrations of the Sabbatic Goat. 3  Ches McCartney — US traveller.