When you pay with a debit card, the money comes directly out of your account. It’s basically the same as withdrawing cash on the spot and handing it over – but safer because there’s a bit of fraud protection and the card is easy to cancel if it’s lost or stolen. There are three types of debit card: 
A bank or credit union gives you a PIN when you get a debit card. You can change your PIN to a number you will remember. When you use your debit card, you need to enter your PIN on a keypad. This is one way the bank tries to stop dishonest people from using your debit card to get your money. The credit card company will send you a bill every month for the money you borrowed to buy things. When you use a debit card, you are using money in your checking account to buy things. For example, with debit cards: 1  You can get a debit card from the bank when you open a checking account.
It looks and smells like a credit card, but a debit card is not a credit card. While you can use a debit card as credit to pay for items at the register and online, several key differences set a debit card apart from the standard credit card. Choosing the credit option at the register means that you do not need to use the personal identification number, or PIN. No Interest. Using a debit card with the credit option does not mean you will have to pay interest on the purchase amount down the road. Unlike a credit card, you are not taking out a loan when you use a debit card, even if you pick credit. The money is taken out of your checking account within a few days.
Without your personal identification number, or PIN, debit card transactions shouldn't receive approval. That number is supposed to safeguard access to our account, but thieves have developed a variety of ways to discover those individual digits. Criminals can obtain the PIN when hacking into a merchant's site. Online, they might try phishing you via email, posing as your bank or another reputable agency and requesting your card information and PIN number. Always contact your bank directly -- not by replying to a possibly phony email -- to verify such communications.
1 Debit cards take money out of your checking account immediately. 2  Debit cards let you get cash quickly. 3  You can use your debit card at an automated teller machine, or ATM, to get money from your checking account. 4  You also can get cash back when you use a debit card to buy something at a store. The credit card company will send you a bill every month for the money you borrowed to buy things. When you use a debit card, you are using money in your checking account to buy things. For example, with debit cards: 1  You can get a debit card from the bank when you open a
1 You can use your debit card in most stores to pay for something. 2  You just swipe the card and enter your PIN number on a key pad. 3  Debit cards take money out of your checking account immediately. 4  Debit cards let you get cash quickly. The credit card company will send you a bill every month for the money you borrowed to buy things. When you use a debit card, you are using money in your checking account to buy things. For example, with debit cards: 1  You can get a debit card from the bank when you open a checking account.
Fees. In some cases, when you choose to use a debit card with the PIN at a register, your bank may charge you a fee for the transaction. Some banks charge a fee if you choose the debit option more than a certain number of times each month. No Interest. Using a debit card with the credit option does not mean you will have to pay interest on the purchase amount down the road. Unlike a credit card, you are not taking out a loan when you use a debit card, even if you pick credit. The money is taken out of your checking account within a few days.
Your debit card may be safely tucked in your wallet, but someone has just used it to take money out of your bank account. Online, they might try phishing you via email, posing as your bank or another reputable agency and requesting your card information and PIN number. Always contact your bank directly -- not by replying to a possibly phony email -- to verify such communications.
Protect Yourself. Avoid using your debit card to make online purchases. It might be inconvenient, but it sure beats having your money stolen. Also avoid using your debit card to pay bar and restaurant checks because the server physically takes your card away to complete the transaction. Online, they might try phishing you via email, posing as your bank or another reputable agency and requesting your card information and PIN number. Always contact your bank directly -- not by replying to a possibly phony email -- to verify such communications.