1 Using a digital instant-read meat thermometer, check the temperature of the steak while it’s still on the grill. 2  Grill the steak to your desired taste: 130°F for rare, 135°F medium-rare, 145°F medium, 150°F medium well and 160°F for well done. 1 Grill the steak to your desired taste: 130°F for rare, 135°F medium-rare, 145°F medium, 150°F medium well and 160°F for well done. 2  Keep in mind that the steak will continue to cook a few degrees more when it’s removed from
To prepare a medium steak on the grill, cook to an internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit. When you press the steak, it should feel slightly firm with a pink center and a grayish burn on the outside. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Increase the cooking time to 6 to 7 minutes per side for a 1 3/4-inch steak. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit.
Let the steak rest for about 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness. This allows the juices to move back into the meat. Resting should be done in a place that is about room temperature and with only a loose covering over it. If you doubt me, try cutting a steak in half right off the grill. Grilling: Here's what I recommend. Get your grill good and hot. The ideal temperature is one that will cook the steak to the desired doneness in the shortest amount of time without burning the surface. Place the room temperature steaks on the grill and close the lid.
Find a top. When we turn the steaks in a minute you will want to know where that top is in order to get the perfect grill marks. Before we put that steak on, lets talk about time. If you are looking for a medium rare 1-inch thick steak our cooking times are going to be one minute (four units of one minute). If your steak is less than 3/4-inch thick (but more than 1/2-inch) the cooking times are going to be 45 seconds or 1 minute for medium well to well. Having said that, you need to know your grill. Some grills comfortably hit temperatures over 700 degrees F, while others have trouble mustering 500.
Medium: Grill 10 minutes per side or to 155°F internal temperature. Check Internal Temperature. Remove steaks from the grill when a quick-response meat thermometer inserted through the side of the steak to its center reads the desired temperature below. To retain juices and reach final temperature, let steaks sit for 2 minutes before cutting. Steak Doneness
For a rare steak on the grill, cook the steak to an internal temperature of 135 degrees Fahrenheit. The internal temperatures for rare steaks are below USDA recommendations and are not considered safe. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Increase the cooking time to 6 to 7 minutes per side for a 1 3/4-inch steak. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170
Well Done. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit. To reach this internal temperature, you need to leave the steak on the grill for 4 to 5 minutes per side for a 1-inch steak or 8 to 9 minutes for a steak measuring 1 3/4 inches. Leave the steak on the grill for an extended period of time, only flipping the steak once after 5 minutes of grilling. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Increase the cooking time to 6 to 7 minutes per side for a 1 3/4-inch steak
Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). Directions. About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes
Let them rest! Once the steaks are grilled to your desired doneness, remove them and place them on a platter. Now DON'T TOUCH those beautiful hunks of meat for 5 minutes if you can help it. Remember, the juices on the inside are disrupted a lot when you are grilling a steak. They need about 5 minutes to calm down and redistribute. We want to grill our steaks quickly and evenly, so it is very important to let the steak come to room temperature before grilling. Remove your steaks from the refrigerator and set them on the kitchen counter for about 30 minutes prior to grilling.