All 3 forms of Gaucher disease are caused by mutation in the GBA gene. There are 2 additional phenotypes which may be distinguished: perinatal lethal Gaucher disease (608013), which is a severe form of type II, and Gaucher disease type IIIC (231005), which also has cardiovascular calcifications. A number sign (#) is used with this entry because Gaucher disease type I is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding acid beta-glucosidase (GBA; 606463) on chromosome 1q22. Description.
Gaucher's disease is the most common of the lysosomal storage diseases. It is a form of sphingolipidosis (a subgroup of lysosomal storage diseases), as it involves dysfunctional metabolism of sphingolipids. The disease is named after the French physician Philippe Gaucher, who originally described it in 1882. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gaucher's disease or Gaucher disease (/ɡoʊˈʃeɪ/) (GD) is a genetic disorder in which glucocerebroside (a sphingolipid, also known as glucosylceramide) accumulates in cells and certain organs.
Gaucher disease results from a specific enzyme deficiency (glucocerebrosidase) in the body, caused by a genetic mutation received from both parents. The disease course is quite variable, ranging from no outward symptoms to severe disability and death. Dr. Philippe Gaucher first described, in 1882, the symptoms now known as Gaucher disease. The disease can affect anyone, regardless of ethnicity, age or gender. It is an autosomal recessive disease and the most prevalent *Lysosomal Storage Disorder (LSD), with an incidence of about 1 in 20,000 live births.
Gaucher's disease is a genetic condition that affects various different tissues and organs in the body. Several forms of this condition have been identified based on the specific features of the disease and the signs and symptoms vary between affected individuals. These mutations leads to the most common form of Gaucher's disease. The condition does not affect the brain and is also referred to as non-neuropathic Gaucher's disease. This illness is common among Ashkenazi Jews and the median age-at-diagnosis is 28 years.
Some forms of Gaucher's disease may be treated with enzyme replacement therapy. The disease is caused by a recessive mutation in a gene located on chromosome 1 and affects both males and females. About one in 100 people in the United States are carriers of the most common type of Gaucher disease. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gaucher's disease or Gaucher disease (/ɡoʊˈʃeɪ/) (GD) is a genetic disorder in which glucocerebroside (a sphingolipid, also known as glucosylceramide) accumulates in cells and certain organs.
Gaucher disease is an inherited disorder that affects many of the body's organs and tissues. The signs and symptoms of this condition vary widely among affected individuals. Researchers have described several types of Gaucher disease based on their characteristic features. Types 2 and 3 Gaucher disease are known as neuronopathic forms of the disorder because they are characterized by problems that affect the central nervous system. In addition to the signs and symptoms described above, these conditions can cause abnormal eye movements, seizures, and brain damage.
Type 1 Gaucher disease is the most common form of this condition. Type 1 is also called non-neuronopathic Gaucher disease because the brain and spinal cord (the central nervous system) are usually not affected. Types 2 and 3 Gaucher disease are known as neuronopathic forms of the disorder because they are characterized by problems that affect the central nervous system. In addition to the signs and symptoms described above, these conditions can cause abnormal eye movements, seizures, and brain damage.
Mutations disrupting the function of this enzyme cause autosomal recessive Gaucher disease. This disease is very heterogeneous. The clinical heterogeneity is due to a large number of mutations within the gene encoding glucocerebrosidase. To date 36 mutations have been described in Gaucher disease. In this part we present the mutations and review the more common ones. We also review the glucocerebrosidase natural activator, designated saposin C and mutations in its gene, associated with Gaucher disease.
Genetics of Gaucher's disease. Gaucher's disease is caused by mutations in the GBA gene, which codes for the beta-glucocerebrosidase enzyme. This enzyme is responsible for breaking down glucocerebroside into glucose (a sugar molecule) and ceramide (a fat molecule). These mutations leads to the most common form of Gaucher's disease. The condition does not affect the brain and is also referred to as non-neuropathic Gaucher's disease. This illness is common among Ashkenazi Jews and the median age-at-diagnosis is 28 years.