The content of a deed between an employer (company) and (former) employee (or injured worker) need not only be restricted to a release from actual or potential claims. There is a wide range of matters that can potentially form the content of a deed. deeds of release, within the context of normal employment, are commonly used to finalise contentious (read: quarrelsome, disputed, highly controversial, most often litigious !) matters between employers and (former) employees.
A deed is really a private arrangement between parties, so a deed between an employer and employee for example cannot be used to impede the work of statutory agencies such as government agencies with for example responsibilities in the areas of OHS or taxation. deeds of release, within the context of normal employment, are commonly used to finalise contentious (read: quarrelsome, disputed, highly controversial, most often litigious !) matters between employers and (former) employees.
Deed of Release will usually settle all claims between you and the employer. Before you sign anything, you should be sure that you are not owed any other money or entitlements by your employer. For example, annual leave payments, underpaid wages, long service leave or money for injury claims. deeds of release, within the context of normal employment, are commonly used to finalise contentious (read: quarrelsome, disputed, highly controversial, most often litigious !) matters between employers and (former) employees.
As such, the deed we have drafted indicates that the releases provided by the employee exclude any claim under workers compensation legislation. If you wish to use the deed in workers compensation matters, you should obtain specific advice before amending it. If you wish to include the reasons for the termination of the employment relationship, the deed will need to be amended. Often, employees are more willing to sign a deed of release which does not include a reason for the termination of their employment which may reflect badly on them.
The deed you will create has been drafted so that it can be used for an existing employee who is in the process of leaving the organisation, or an employee whose employment has already been terminated. If you wish to include the reasons for the termination of the employment relationship, the deed will need to be amended. Often, employees are more willing to sign a deed of release which does not include a reason for the termination of their employment which may reflect badly on them.
John Wildgoose/Stone/Getty Images. The release of claims is an agreement between an employer and an employee whose employment has been terminated. The release of claims document generally lays out the prior terms of employment and an agreement to negate them. Any other agreements released are also included in the document. Employees under the age of 40 sign a different document than is requested from employees over age 40. For former employees over the age of 40, the release of claims includes an age discrimination clause in which the employee agrees not to charge the employer with age discrimination.
Share. The Deed of Release is one of the most adaptable documents in any legal tool box. It usually is a brief, but carefully targeted, document used to either bring a dispute to an end or to prevent one from ever arising. Such a document could be used to evidence the settlement ‘deal’ between the parties. A common use is where an employee is being paid a redundancy amount. In those circumstances, the employer and employee execute a Deed or Release and it is agreed that the payment of the redundancy amount will bar any further employment-related claims. Another common use is where ligation is under way
While the deed endeavours to provide your business with a release in relation to claims (actual and potential) an employee may make against your business, there is a wide range of other matters that can potentially form the content of a deed. If you wish to include the reasons for the termination of the employment relationship, the deed will need to be amended. Often, employees are more willing to sign a deed of release which does not include a reason for the termination of their employment which may reflect badly on them.
In the deed, the employee will agree to release your business from any claims (this term is defined in the deed) the employee may have against the business, in exchange for the payment of a sum of money. If you wish to include the reasons for the termination of the employment relationship, the deed will need to be amended. Often, employees are more willing to sign a deed of release which does not include a reason for the termination of their employment which may reflect badly on them.