Online construction masonry estimating. Quickly estimate the cost of residential masonryand commercial masonry projects in over 160 US. Cities. 
The common materials of masonry construction are brick, building stone such as marble, granite, travertine, and limestone, cast stone, concrete block, glass block, and cob. Masonry is generally a highly durable form of construction. Masonry is commonly used for the walls of buildings, retaining walls and buildings. Brick and concrete block are the most common types of masonry in use in industrialized nations and may be either weight-bearing or a veneer.
A natural stone wall will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot based on the type of stone chosen. A concrete block wall costs $6.10 to $7.60 per linear foot. Homeowners will also need to pay for any other materials needed, including steel bars, sand to keep the stones from rubbing against each other and mortar. Cost of Materials. The cost of adding a new wall to a home depends on the material used. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot. Hollow bricks feature a unique design with a durable shell and a hollow space in the center of each brick. Traditional brick walls cost around $14.10 per square foot
RP Watkins, Inc. Many homeowners assume that a concrete home will cost considerably more than a comparable stick-built house. But in reality, you may actually save money by building with concrete when you factor in life-cycle costs, utility expenses and maintenance requirements. But in general, a typical 2,000 square foot home in the center of the U.S.will save approximately $200 in heating costs and $65 in air conditioning annually. What's more, ICF construction allows the installation of smaller heating and cooling equipment, which can save you hundreds or even thousands of dollars.
When planning a new house, estimate that building the walls with ICFs and concrete, using an experienced crew, will add about $.25 to $3.25 per square foot to the cost. But in general, a typical 2,000 square foot home in the center of the U.S.will save approximately $200 in heating costs and $65 in air conditioning annually. What's more, ICF construction allows the installation of smaller heating and cooling equipment, which can save you hundreds or even thousands of dollars.
If you compare the cost of building a masonry home with the least expensive way to build a wood frame home, then the masonry home will probably cost more to build, especially the initial cost. Currently, builders are responding to homeowner's requests and building better insulated, tighter, higher performing homes. However, most production builders build with wood frame and are not able to build a single masonry home in a subdivision of wood frame homes. Visit subdivisions that feature masonry builders and you will find the home you are looking for at a price you can afford.
Building a brick house is an ancient technique used with great success in Europe and improved during the past years. The higher cost and poor insulation used to be two of the main drawbacks of this construction system, but in the last 20 years the engineers have come with innovations as to mitigate these aspects. Smart Tip: In the case of a brick house construction, make sure you build concrete pillars at the intersection of all walls. This aspect is essential, as they have to bond the walls together and support the concrete ceiling.
Masonry construction unit costs included in Goldenseal construction estimating software. Use this category when estimating masonry work such as concrete and cinder blocks, brickwork, stonework, exterior stucco and other masonry work. These costs are designed for residential and light commercial masonry estimating. HINT -- Use the job costing in Goldenseal construction accounting software to compare actual masonry costs against your estimates. It will improve the accuracy of your masonry construction estimates. Walls & Foundations -- concrete block foundation and structural walls. 