1 Deer ticks are smaller than their counterparts, the dog and lone star ticks. 2  Deer tick nymphs are typically the size of a poppy seed, 1 to 2 mm (.039 to .078 inches) in diameter, while adults range from 2 to 3.5 mm (.078 to .137 inches) and are roughly the size of a sesame seed. 1 The capitulum on the deer tick is much longer than in other common ticks, such as the dog tick. 2  The capitulum is positioned to the front, and visible from above. 3  The female deer tick has a larger capitulum than a male deer tick.
Lyme disease is a bacterial infection caused by the bite of an infected deer tick. Untreated, the disease can cause a number of health problems. Patients treated with antibiotics in the early stage of the infection usually recover rapidly and completely. Only deer ticks can carry the bacterium that causes Lyme disease. They can also carry the germs that cause babesiosis and human granulocytic anaplasmosis. Young deer ticks, called nymphs, are brown and the size of poppy seeds. Adult female deer ticks are red and black, while males are black.
Deer ticks. Deer ticks, also known as blacklegged ticks, are just one of thirteen known tick species in Minnesota. They are most common in the east and central areas of the state and are found in hardwood forests and wooded and brushy areas. Deer ticks are potential carriers of Lyme disease, human anaplasmosis and babesiosis. The risk of getting a tick-borne disease is small if the tick is removed soon after it becomes attached. Deer ticks must remain attached one to two days to transmit Lyme disease, and about one day for the other diseases.
Deer ticks usually refer to the blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) and the western blacklegged tick (Ixodes pacificus), while wood tick refers to the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis) and the Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni). The common name deer tick is somewhat antiquated, but is still a frequently used name that is now correctly referred to as blacklegged tick. WOOD TICKS. Both species of wood ticks are members of the family Ixodidae, the hard ticks. They are dark brown in color with silver-gray or whitish coloring on their back.
Ixodes scapularis is commonly known as the deer tick or blacklegged tick (although some people reserve the latter term for Ixodes pacificus, which is found on the West Coast of the USA), and in some parts of the USA as the bear tick. The image shown at the upper right—and in fact, most images of Ixodes scapularis that are commonly available—show an adult that is unengorged, that is, an adult that has not had a blood meal. This is natural, since the ticks are generally removed immediately upon discovery to minimize the chance of disease.
Lyme disease is caused by bacteria transmitted by the deer tick (Ixodes scapularis) . Lyme disease may cause symptoms affecting the skin, nervous system, heart and/or joints of an individual. Over 98,500 cases have been reported to the New York State Department of Health since Lyme disease became reportable in 1986. Lyme disease is a bacterial infection caused by the bite of an infected deer tick. Untreated, the disease can cause a number of health problems. Patients treated with antibiotics in the early stage of the infection usually recover rapidly and completely.
Size relative to a paper clip: The loathsome deer tick, now known as the black-legged tick, is defined more by the disease it spreads than by its own characteristics. Associated mainly with the Northeast, deer ticks live throughout the central and eastern United States, wherever their favorite hosts, deer and rodents, are present. Western black-legged ticks live west of the Rocky Mountains and are also vectors for Lyme disease.
Of the over 80 types of ticks active in North America, there are only seven species that can transmit disease to humans through its bite. The deer tick, or blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) can transmit Lyme disease and other illnesses to its hosts. 1 The capitulum on the deer tick is much longer than in other common ticks, such as the dog tick. 2  The capitulum is positioned to the front, and visible from above. 3  The female deer tick has a larger capitulum than a male deer tick.
1. The deer tick, also called the blacklegged tick or by its scientific name of Ixodes scapularis, is an external parasite of the arachnid class, thus it is related to spiders. Like all ticks, the deer tick is a blood-feeder; it bites humans and animals in order to fasten itself to the skin and feed on blood. 