($70 – $80) = 10. The highest value of the three inputs is the ATR, so in the above example 10 is the ATR for this point in time. In order to calculate the average true range, you take the average of each true range value over a fixed period of time. For example, when calculating the average true range for a 14-day period you would take the average of the true ranges over 14-days. In the Apple example above you would take the ATR value of .29 and then apply for example a 3x multiplier for your target and 1x for your average true range stop. This would provide you a target price of (.29 *3) + $126.47 = $127.34. Conversely, the average true range stop loss for this trade would be $125.6.
Average true range (ATR) is a technical analysis volatility indicator originally developed by J. Welles Wilder, Jr. for commodities. The indicator does not provide an indication of price trend, simply the degree of price volatility. The average true range is an N-day smoothed moving average (SMMA) of the true range values. Wilder recommended a 14-period smoothing.
J. Welles Wilder is one of the most innovative minds in the field of technical analysis. In 1978, he introduced the world to the indicators known as true range and average true range as measures of volatility. Subtracting the previous close from the day's low, as done in equation No.3, will account for days that open with a gap down. Average TrueRange The average true range (ATR) is an exponential moving average of the true range. Wilder used a 14-day ATR to explain the concept. Traders can use shorter or longer timeframes based on their trading preferences
First, ATR values depend on where you begin. The first True Range value is simply the current High minus the current Low and the first ATR is an average of the first 14 True Range values. In the spreadsheet example, the first True Range value (.91) equals the High minus the Low (yellow cells). The first 14-day ATR value (.56)) was calculated by finding the average of the first 14 True Range values (blue cell). Subsequent ATR values were smoothed using the formula above.
This is the range in pips that the price has moved over the given time frame. The above chart is a daily chart and so in this case, the volatility of the price is an average of 65 pips over the last 14 days. Using this value, traders can expect the price movement on the given day to move by 65 pips.
The Average True Range is calculated as the average of the True Ranges using Wilder's method of moving average. The Average True Range is not used to predict prices but for determining the daily activity level of a stock. 