Sometimes these rights conflict with each other, causing debate. The 1st amendment causes many controversial issues to arise. This amendment gives us the freedoms of speech, press, and religion. Freedom of speech is one of those very controversial issues.
The First Amendment and Public Schools. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances.
Gun ownership and gun control are controversial issues in the U.S. The United States Supreme Court ruled in 2008 that the right to bear arms is an individual right like others in the Bill of Rights. The Second Amendment was one of those adopted under the Bill of Rights and gives citizens the right to keep and bear arms.
The first amendment is so controversial because it speaks about many different things that are important to people. The rights given to people are simple, yet people struggle to figure out when and where they apply.
It is in place because the people wanted a written document stating their rights. The First Amendment was added to the Constitution in 1791. It states that people have the rights of religion, speech, assembly, press, and petition. One of the most controversial parts of this amendment is free speech.
Conclusion. The first amendment is so controversial because it speaks about many different things that are important to people. The rights given to people are simple, yet people struggle to figure out when and where they apply. This is the source of the controversy.
The first amendment is so controversial because it speaks about many different things that are important to people. It gives people the freedom of speech, press, religion and assembly.
About the First Amendment. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.