The shelf life of butter is about 6 to 9 months beyond the printed date depending upon a variety of factors such as the production method, its Best By Date and how it is stored. Butter is a dairy product made by churning fresh cream or milk until it reaches a solid form. 1 An unopened container should last for 1-3 months at 40°F or less in the refrigerator, but some companies guarantee their product for up to 6 months. 2  If left in its partially-open original paper wrap, the exposed area stick butter will begin to harden and smell stale after about a week, as oxygen sets in.
Mayonnaise is still good for a month after its expiration date (unopened) and up to four months after opening. Eggs, properly refrigerated, should last at least three to five weeks after the sell-by date. A A. Those pesky expiration dates on the food you buy may be largely meaningless. That’s the latest word from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in a public service video that says food still remains safe up to 18 months after the “sell-by” date on the package.
The shelf life of margarine depends on a variety of factors, such as the production method, its sell by date and how it is stored. Margarine, also known as oleomargarine or oleo, is often used as an alternative or substitute for butter. For a long-term option, you can freeze your margarine for about 6 months while preserving its taste if you replace the wax rapper with foil or another freezer friendly product. Although salted margarine may last longer, we recommend you follow the same storage methods discussed above.
Butter has a shelf life of around 3 months for unsalted and 5 months for salted butter. However, depending on storage conditions prior to and after purchase, the butter can deteriorate sooner and impart a rank flavor to your baking and food. Here is how to test if it is still fresh. 
Confidence votes 22.7K. The date on margarine likely has more to do with quality and flavor rather than food safety. The date is probably more of a best by than and expiration. It will be up to you whether to use it or not. More information Around here, the date on the milk carton is a not an expiration date. If it was of initial good quality a … nd has been handled and stored properly, the milk should be OK up to 5 days or even a week beyond the date on the package. A week or two even milk is still good after the expiration date.
The butter will last for several days at a temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit. 1  An unopened container should last for 1-3 months at 40°F or less in the refrigerator, but some companies guarantee their product for up to 6 months. 1 An unopened container should last for 1-3 months at 40°F or less in the refrigerator, but some companies guarantee their product for up to 6 months. 2  If left in its partially-open original paper wrap, the exposed area stick butter will begin to harden and smell stale after about a week, as oxygen sets in.
Those expiration dates on the food you buy may be largely meaningless. That's the latest word from the USDA in a public service video that says food still remains safe up to 18 months after the 'sell-by' date on the package. expired, food, safe, fda. 874. A A. Those pesky expiration dates on the food you buy may be largely meaningless. That’s the latest word from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in a public service video that says food still remains safe up to 18 months after the “sell-by”
1 An unopened container should last for 1-3 months at 40°F or less in the refrigerator, but some companies guarantee their product for up to 6 months. 2  If left in its partially-open original paper wrap, the exposed area of stick butter will begin to harden and smell stale after about a week, as oxygen sets in. 1 An unopened container should last for 1-3 months at 40°F or less in the refrigerator, but some companies guarantee their product for up to 6 months. 2  If left in its partially-open original paper wrap, the exposed area
Butter. Butter lasts about 2 weeks after its expiration date. Frozen butter lasts up to 9 months longer. Deli Meat. Packaged lunch meats last about 7-10 days past the best by date, whereas fresh meats will last around 5-6 days longer. Salami and pepperoni last longer than – around 2-3 weeks. 