The Conference met at Berlin from November 1884 through Februart 1885 and resulted in the following agreement--The Berlin Act of 1885. It was attended by representatives of Great Britain, Austria-Hungary, France, Germany, Russia, U.S.A., Portugal, Denmark, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, Belgium and Turkey. 
Tweet. The Berlin Conference of 1884–85, also known as the Congo Conference (German: Kongokonferenz) or West Africa Conference (Westafrika-Konferenz), regulated European colonisation and trade in Africa during the New Imperialism period, and coincided with Germany’s sudden emergence as an imperial power. 
Rivalry between Great Britain and France led Bismarck to intervene, and in late 1884 he called a meeting of European powers in Berlin. In the subsequent meetings, Great Britain, France, Germany, Portugal, and King Leopold II negotiated their claims to African territory, which were then formalized and mapped. Elizabeth Heath. The Berlin Conference of 1884–1885 marked the climax of the European competition for territory in Africa, a process commonly known as the Scramble for Africa.
Share to:   The countries that attended the Berlin Conference (1884-1885) were Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Danmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, R … ussia, Spain, Sweden-Norway (unified from 1814-1905), the Ottomn Empire (Turkey), and the United States of America. 
The Berlin Conference was held in Berlin between November 15, 1884 and November 26, 1885, under the leadership of German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck. The Berlin Conference established those ground rules. Back to Africa South of the Sahara Chronology Back to European Diplomacy Chronology Back to The New Imperialism. Chronology Otto von Bismarck was the principal architect of the Berlin Conference. The exploration of Africa by Europeans started with the Portuguese sailing along Africa's coast in 1450. The success the Portuguese had on these voyages encouraged other European naval powers to explore Africa
The Berlin Conference of 1884–85 was a meeting between European nations to create rules on how to peacefully divide Africa among them for colonization. The conference was convened by Portugal but led by Otto von Bismarck, chancellor of the newly united Germany. Though invited, the U.S. declined to participate. 
Called for by Portugal and organized by Otto von Bismarck, first Chancellor of Germany, its outcome, the General Act of the Berlin Conference, can be seen as the formalization of the Scramble for Africa. Before the conference, European diplomacy treated African indigenous people in the same manner as the New World natives, forming trading relationships with the indigenous chiefs.
Organized by Otto von Bismarck, the chancellor of Germany and minister of Prussia, the Berlin Conference was created. 14 countries attended, including Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden-Norway, Turkey, and the United States of America. Also known as the Congo Conference and the Berlin West Africa Conference, the Berlin Conference was created to negotiate questions and end confusion over the control of Africa. It was meant to agree that the Congo River and Niger River mouths and basins would be considered neutral and open trade.
The Berlin Conference of 1884–85, also known as the Congo Conference (German: Kongokonferenz) or West Africa Conference (Westafrika-Konferenz), regulated European colonization and trade in Africa during the New Imperialism period, and coincided with Germany's sudden emergence as an imperial power. Before the conference, European diplomacy treated African indigenous people in the same manner as the New World natives, forming trading relationships with the indigenous chiefs.