Home » Pulmonology » Phlegm ». Phlegm or respiratory system mucus is a gel like substance produced by upper and lower respiratory system organs in response to various types of irritants in the form of allergens, viruses, bacteria, environmental toxins and pollution. However, in response to various irritants and inflammatory processes, the color of phlegm changes along with its consistency. The presence of white blood cells, proteins and irritants gives mucus its tint.
Pink Phlegm. Pink-colored phlegm is anything but pretty. Coughing up pink phlegm is an indicator of pulmonary edema, also known as fluid in the lungs. It can also be a sign of bleeding when seen in small amounts, which show up as a stain or streak. This causes the mucus to stagnate and dry out, leading to a white discharge. Meanwhile, coughing up gray phlegm may be a sign that the body is trying to get rid of resins or tars that accumulated from excessive smoking or inhalation of large amounts of air pollutants like smog or dust.
Green mucus can also be a sign of bronchitis, if one or more of the following is present: coughing, fatigue, shortness of breath after non-vigorous physical exercise, wheezing, discomfort in the chest area. Yellow mucus. Pink mucus By pink is meant a pink-tinged mucus. Mucus having this color should be regarded as a sign of a potentially serious condition. If the pink-tinged mucus is accompanied by: 1  fatigue, weakness.
Color of phlegm is a very helpful way for you to know how your body is coping with an illness. No matter what the color of phlegm is, if it’s accompanied by a fever of 102 F degrees or higher, if you generally feel run down, experience wheezing, chest pains and persistent cough, it is time to call a doctor. However, in response to various irritants and inflammatory processes, the color of phlegm changes along with its consistency. The presence of white blood cells, proteins and irritants gives mucus its tint.
1 It is normal to have a productive cough when you have a common cold. 2  Coughing is often triggered by mucus that drains down the back of the throat. 3  Infections. 4  An infection of the lungs or upper airway passages can cause a cough. 5  A productive cough may be a symptom of pneumonia, bronchitis, sinusitis, or tuberculosis. There are many causes of a productive cough, such as: 1  Viral illnesses. 2  It is normal to have a productive cough when you have a common cold. 3  Coughing is often triggered by mucus that drains down the back of the throat. 4  Infections. 5
Coughing up yellow mucus can be a sign of a sinus infection, especially when the color changes to a dark yellow. It can also be a sign of bronchitis if it is accompanied by the symptoms already described for bronchitis under Green mucus, above. Yet when the air is very dry some persons produce a light yellow mucus. Pink mucus By pink is meant a pink-tinged mucus. Mucus having this color should be regarded as a sign of a potentially serious condition. If the pink-tinged mucus is accompanied by: 1  fatigue, weakness.
Hemoptysis or haemoptysis is the act of coughing up blood or blood-stained mucus from the bronchi, larynx, trachea, or lungs. This can occur with lung cancer, infections such as tuberculosis, bronchitis, or pneumonia, and certain cardiovascular conditions. 
Green or Dark Yellow Phlegm. A thick and dark yellow phlegm may be a sign of a viral or bacterial infection, sinus infection, or lower respiratory tract infection. Typically, this occurs when the immune system sends white blood cells, known as neutrophils, to the area of infection. This causes the mucus to stagnate and dry out, leading to a white discharge. Meanwhile, coughing up gray phlegm may be a sign that the body is trying to get rid of resins or tars that accumulated from excessive smoking or inhalation of large amounts of air pollutants like smog or dust.
The phlegm palette is similarly multicolored to mucus with clear or white sputum being normal, yellow or green hues from frequent coughing, and red or brown shades from blood that's new or old. If you're seeing a lot of blood in phlegm, give your doctor a call. A rainbow of mucus and phlegm. As far as color goes, mucus is typically clear. But when the immune system sends white blood cells into the nose to fight off infection, they contain a greenish enzyme that shades the substance yellow or green. These are the same tones mucus takes on when it dries and clumps into boogers.