Green Anoles are becoming rare, don’t eat them. Anoles usually eat insects, and only live insects. The insect has to move for the anole to be interested in it… kind of like a dog chasing a car… Their native diet consists mainly of small arthropods, annelids, and mollusks. Cannibalistic, they are also short lived, 18 months on average, 36 occasionally. While the Brown Anole is crowding out the Green Anole some think the Green Anole is responding to the pressure by moving higher up in plants and trees leaving the Brown Anole to inhabit lower plant areas and the ground. Green Anoles like foliage where as the Brown likes to run along
1 Anoles may also eat waxworms, fruit flies, small worms, canned crickets, small spiders, or earthworms. 2  Avoid feeding anoles with mealworms. 3  These pass through them undigested, wasting energy in eating and not getting any energy from the food. 4  Anoles prefer to get their water in the form of droplets off plants. A green anole has a life expectancy between 4 to 8 years and while that's a daily commitment for the upcoming years, they are reasonably easy to care for provided you get the set-up correct (which requires a bit of expenditure).
Best Answer: Green anoles will eat most small insects. Crickets are easily obtained, and a good source of nutrition for them. They will also take spiders, mealworms or flies. If your tanks top is not properly secured or tight fit it could be possible for one to squeeze through. 
Green anoles usually eat small creatures like crickets and mealworms, but some anoles will lap up baby food or lick fruits. Then some green anoles will eat fruits, lettuce, cu … cumber cut into small pieces, plants, etc. Confidence votes 66. Green anoles eat crickets, flies, nats, mealworms, waxworms, butterworms, earthworms... worms must be medium to small, cut up banana, and mostly anything that the anole thinks it can over power or digest.
Green Anole Size. Male green anoles may grow to 8 inches, while females seldom exceed 5 to 6 inches. Young hatch at three-quarters to 1 inch in length. With a SVL (snout-to-vent length) of a large adult male being roughly 4 inches, fully half a green anole’s length is its tail. Green Anole Food. Green anoles will eat small invertebrates such as crickets, mealworms, farm-raised maggots, roaches (genus Blaptica), and all other insect fare. Avoid superworms or kingworms, as these possess sharp, powerful mandibles that can injure your anole.
How to Care for Green Anole Lizards. A delightful small lizard, the green anole (Anolis carolinensis) makes a popular choice for an easy care reptile pet. They're the kind of pet that will entertain you with their busy antics during daylight and their beautiful color is lovely to behold. Odds are, you will probably see this type of lizard in your garden. A green anole has a life expectancy between 4 to 8 years and while that's a daily commitment for the upcoming years, they are reasonably easy to care for provided you get the set-up correct (which requires a bit of expenditure).
Obtain the appropriate food for your lizard. For example, anole green lizards should be fed small to medium insects, every 2-3 days. Its food must be alive. Geckos will eat meal worms, wax worms, crickets, and roaches. 3. Follow the feeding instructions for your particular kind of lizard. 2. 
Genus/species: Anolis carolinensis. Description. The green anole is generally about five to eight inches (13 to 20 cm) long. Females are usually smaller and can be under five inches (13 cm) long. Green anoles have adhesive lamellae on their foot-pads for crawling along walls, much like geckos.
Green anoles usually eat small creatures like crickets and mealworms, but some anoles will lap up baby food or lick fruits. Then some green anoles will eat fruits, lettuce, cu … cumber cut into small pieces, plants, etc. 