Newquay. Discover Newquay. Newquay, one of the nation's favourite seaside towns, exudes the laid back atmosphere you would expect from a town perched on Cornwall's Atlantic cliffs and bordered by 7 miles of glorious golden sandy beaches. 1 Newquay is a great base for a walking break. 2  Slap bang on the famed South West Coast Path, there are walks in and around Newquay to suit all ages and abilities, from short beachside ambles to more strenuous cliff and coastal path romps.
Understand [edit]. The resort is widely regarded as the surf capital of the UK. Newquay is a centre for the surf industry in Britain, with many surf stores, board manufacturers and hire shops in the town. Newquay Harbour. Newquay has been a major tourist destination for more than a century, principally on account of its coastline and nine long and accessible sandy beaches, including Fistral. Newquay is well-known as a surfer's paradise. Therefore it offers plenty of beaches: 1  Crantock Beach-quiet beach, 2km away from the city centre along the coastal path. 2  Fistral Beach-Newquays most popular beach, located to the West of Towards Head. 3  Famous as a surf centre, has life guards during summer months.
Newquay Cornwall Airport (IATA: NQY, ICAO: EGHQ) is the main commercial airport for Cornwall, in South West England, UK, located at Mawgan in Pydar 4 NM (7.4 km; 4.6 mi) northeast of Newquay on Cornwall's north coast. Its runway was previously operated by RAF St Mawgan before the runway was handed over in December 2008. The airport is located close to Newquay, Cornwall's premier tourist resort, as well as major attractions such as The Eden Project. It hosts the Aerohub enterprise zone. In 2013 the airport handled 174,891 passengers, a 5.0% increase compared with 2012
The resort is widely regarded as the surf capital of the UK. Newquay is a centre for the surf industry in Britain, with many surf stores, board manufacturers and hire shops in the town. Places like Trencreek, Porth and St Columb Minor have long since become suburbs of Newquay: it is possible that by the 2030s, should present development trends continue, the edges of the town could be approaching and perhaps encompass Quintrell Downs, 3 miles (5 km) from the town centre.
Newquay on Cornwall’s Atlantic Coast-voted “one of the nations favourite seaside towns” in the prestigious Which Holiday Survey, “best family holiday destination” by readers of COAST magazine and one of the UK's top ten beach destinations by Trip Advisor. Newquay’s laid back charm is here for everyone to enjoy. Newquay is open all year, easy to get to by rail, road or air and offers a range of top quality attractions within easy reach, alongside classic events and exhilarating activities both in and out of the water and some of Cornwalls best beaches.
Newquay is a city/town with a small population in the state/region of Cornwall, England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Newquay include Perranporth, Saint Columb Major, Saint Dennis and Saint Stephen. The closest major cities include Plymouth, Cardiff, Bristol and Cotes-d'Armor.
Newquay [1] is the surf capital of Great Britain. Generally a youthful vibrant town located in the county of Cornwall. Check out the official award winning tourism website here [2] for actvities, beaches, maps, downloads, blogs and accommodation. Newquay is well-known as a surfer's paradise. Therefore it offers plenty of beaches: 1  Crantock Beach-quiet beach, 2km away from the city centre along the coastal path. 2  Fistral Beach-Newquays most popular beach, located to the West of Towards Head. 3  Famous as a surf centre, has life guards during summer months.
Newquay (/ˈnjuːki/ , Cornish: Tewynblustri) is a town, civil parish, seaside resort and fishing port in Cornwall, England. It is situated on the North Atlantic coast of Cornwall approximately 20 miles (32 km) west of Bodmin and 12 miles (19 km) north of Truro. Places like Trencreek, Porth and St Columb Minor have long since become suburbs of Newquay: it is possible that by the 2030s, should present development trends continue, the edges of the town could be approaching and perhaps encompass Quintrell Downs, 3 miles (5 km) from the town centre.
As with the rest of the British Isles and South West England, Newquay experiences a maritime climate with cool summers and mild winters. The nearest Met Office weather station is St. Mawgan/Newquay Airport, about 3.5 miles to the north east of the town centre. Places like Trencreek, Porth and St Columb Minor have long since become suburbs of Newquay: it is possible that by the 2030s, should present development trends continue, the edges of the town could be approaching and perhaps encompass Quintrell Downs, 3 miles (5 km) from