Klebsiella pneumoniae. Klebsiella pneumoniae (also known as Friedlander's bacillus) is a small (0,5-0,8 x 1-2 mm) Gram-negative coccobacilli that causes necrotizing lobar pneumonia. Does not form spores, is motionless. Capable of forming a capsule. Arranged singly, in pairs and clusters. Easily stained with aniline dyes. 
Patient discussion about Klebsiella pneumoniae. Q. What is KLEBSIELLA PNEUMONIAE 0.00. A. Klebsiella is a bacteria that can cause different types of infections such as a urinary tract infection or pneumonia, and is considered a not very common pathogen among patients in the community (meaning outside the hospital). 
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a Gram-negative, nonmotile, encapsulated, lactose-fermenting, facultative anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium. As a free-living diazotroph, its nitrogen fixation system has been much-studied, and is of agricultural interest, as K. pneumoniae has been demonstrated to increase crop yields in agricultural conditions. Members of the Klebsiella genus typically express two types of antigens on their cell surfaces.
Klebsiella pneumonia is a form of bacterial pneumonia associated with Klebsiella pneumoniae. It is typically due to aspiration by alcoholics, though it is more commonly implicated in hospital-acquired urinary tract and wound infections, particularly in immunocompromised individuals and diabetics. Patients with Klebsiella pneumonia tend to cough up a characteristic sputum that is said to resemble red-currant jelly. Klebsiella pneumonia tends to affect people with underlying diseases, such as alcoholism, diabetes and chronic lung disease.
Klebsiella pneumoniae. Klebsiella pneumoniae is a Gram-negative, non-motile, encapsulated, lactose fermenting, facultative anaerobic, rod shaped bacterium. Although found in the normal flora of the mouth, skin, and intestines, it can cause destructive changes to human lungs if aspirated. 
Klebsiella infections that are not drug-resistant can be treated with antibiotics. Infections caused by KPC-producing bacteria can be difficult to treat because fewer antibiotics are effective against them. In such cases, a microbiology laboratory must run tests to determine which antibiotics will treat the infection. Klebsiella bacteria are normally found in the human intestines (where they do not cause disease). They are also found in human stool (feces). In healthcare settings, Klebsiella infections commonly occur among sick patients who are receiving treatment for other conditions.
Overview. Klebsiella infections refer to several different types of healthcare-associated infections that are all caused by the Klebsiella bacteria, including pneumonia; bloodstream infections; wound or surgical site infections; and meningitis. 
Some Klebsiella bacteria have become highly resistant to antibiotics. When bacteria such as Klebsiella pneumoniae produce an enzyme known as a carbapenemase (referred to as KPC-producing organisms), then the class of antibiotics called carbapenems will not work to kill the bacteria and treat the infection. Klebsiella bacteria are normally found in the human intestines (where they do not cause disease). They are also found in human stool (feces). In healthcare settings, Klebsiella infections commonly occur among sick patients who are receiving treatment for other conditions.
In healthcare settings, Klebsiella bacteria can be spread through person-to-person contact (for example, from patient to patient via the contaminated hands of healthcare personnel, or other persons) or, less commonly, by contamination of the environment. Klebsiella bacteria are normally found in the human intestines (where they do not cause disease). They are also found in human stool (feces). In healthcare settings, Klebsiella infections commonly occur among sick patients who are receiving treatment for other conditions.
As a general rule, Klebsiella infections tend to occur in people with a weakened immune system. Many of these infections are obtained when a person is in the hospital for some other reason (a nosocomial infection). The most common infection caused by Klebsiella bacteria outside the hospital is pneumonia. New antibiotic resistant strains of K. pneumoniae are appearing, and it is increasingly found as a nosocomial. infection. Klebsiella ranks second to E. coli for urinary tract infections in older persons. 