The term asexual reproduction means that new plants are created without the need for gametes. Self-pollination is not asexual reproduction -- the same plant merely provides both of the gametes used. The two main forms of asexual reproduction (apomixis) are. vegetative (budding, rhizomes, aerial stems, or bulb division) and.
Vegetative reproduction. Definition. noun. A type of asexual reproduction employed by plants wherein new independent individuals emerge from the vegetative parts of plants, such as specialized stems, leaves, roots, and not from seeds or spores.
Asexual reproduction indicates that the plant cells divide into two, without the formation of sex cells (gametes) or zygotes (fertilized cells). Some cells within a higher pla … nt still divide in this fashion to maintain the plant's metabolic operations. Self-pollination is not asexual reproduction -- the same plant merely provides both of the gametes used. The two main forms of asexual reproduction (apomixis) are. vegetative (budding, rhizomes, aerial stems, or bulb division) and.
Types of Asexual Reproduction in Plants. Asexual reproduction requires only one parent. Since there is only one parent, there is no exchanging of genetic information, and the offspring are clones of the parent. Asexual reproduction in plants can occur in a variety of forms, including budding, vegetative propagation, and fragmentation. Let's discuss these reproduction types. 
Plant reproduction is the production of new individuals or offspring in plants, which can be accomplished by sexual or asexual reproduction. Plants have two main types of asexual reproduction in which new plants are produced that are genetically identical clones of the parent individual.
Asexual reproduction in liverworts: a caducous phylloid germinating. Asexual reproduction is a mode of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single organism, and inherit the genes of that parent only; it does not involve the fusion of gametes and almost never changes the number of chromosomes. Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaebacteria, eubacteria, and protists.
Definition. noun. A form of reproduction that does not involve meiosis, ploidy reduction or fertilization, and the offspring is a clone of the parent organism; because of no exchange of genetic material. Supplement. An organism capable of asexual reproduction is able to produce offspring in the absence of a mate. In asexual reproduction, the offspring is a clone of the parent and therefore results in low genetic variation in the species as a whole. Examples of asexual reproduction are: 1  Binary fission. 2  Budding. 3  Vegetative reproduction. 4  Spore formation. 5  Fragmentation. 6  Parthenogenesis.
Vegetative reproduction is a type of asexual reproduction found in plants where new individuals are formed without the production of seeds or spores by meiosis or syngamy. Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaebacteria, eubacteria, and protists.
Medical Definition of ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION. : reproduction (as cell division, spore formation, fission, or budding) without union of individuals or gametes. What made you want to look up asexual reproduction?