Why borage of course! Borage is a wonderful plant to have around the garden. Borage (Borago officinalis), also known as starflower, bee bush, bee bread, and bugloss, is a medicinal herb with edible leaves and flowers. In my garden, borage and sunflowers share the honor of being bee hot-spots. 
The Vipers Bugloss plant (Echium vulgare) is also variously known as Borage and Blue Borage and this at times leads to considerable confusion when the culinary herb Blue Borage (Borago officinalis-see photo on left), is mistaken as the source of this honey. Some beekeepers and honey marketers also refer to Vipers Bugloss honey as Borage and Blue Borage honey with several products being marketed under these names in the New Zealand domestic market. At present none of these products are Borago officinal
Borage (/ˈbɒr.ɪdʒ/ , Borago officinalis), also known as a starflower, is an annual herb in the flowering plant family Boraginaceae. It is native to the Mediterranean region and has naturalized in many other locales. Borage is used in companion planting. It is said to protect or nurse legumes, spinach, brassicas, and even strawberries. It is also said to be a good companion plant to tomatoes because it confuses the mother moths of tomato hornworms or manduca looking for a place to lay their eggs.
Borage is a plant. Its flowers and leaves, as well as the oil from its seeds are used as medicine. Borage seed oil is used for skin disorders including eczema, seborrheic dermatitis, and neurodermatitis. 
Borage is not only a honey plant, but also one of the most famous ancient spices and a valuable herb. It is traditionally cultivated as a vegetable type and spice, but it is also gwon for pharmaceutical purposes, because of the oil extracted from its seeds, which is often called “star flower oil” or “borage oil”. If we have to be honest, if bees disappear this will lead to disappearing of lots of fruits and vegetables, such as almonds, soy beans, apricots, melons, cherries, cucumbers, etc. The list is quite long and actually affects about a third of the fruits and vegetables on the planet.
Borage nutrition facts. Borage, also known as bee plant, is one of the chosen culinary herbs employed by grandmothers to prepare popular green sauce, to garnish salads or to pamper children with candied flowers! This ancient garden herb exudes characteristic cucumber-like aroma to the recipes it added to. 
Bees love the pretty blue flowers of this common plant, and their nectar produces a pale, delicately flavored honey. Borage is widely grown in the United Kingdom and on the South Island of New Zealand. 
Borage honey. Categories: Bee products, Honey facts, Types of honey |. Borage is annual, stiff plant, its height is 60-100 cm (40”), root is rod. The stem is erect or ascending, thick, ribbed, hollow, branched above. Basal and lower stem leaves are elliptical or oval, obtuse on top, narrowed in a short stalk to the base, stem leaves are oblong-ovate, sessile, amplexicaul and are covered with stiff whitish hairs. Hash with borage. 0.5 liters of kvass – 5 – 6 leaves of borage, 4-5 leaves of watercress, 30 g of green onions, 10 g of dill, 40 g of potatoes, 1/2 eggs, 30 g of meat or sausage, 2.3 tsp. of sour cream, salt and sugar to taste. Slice and rub y oung leaves of borage.
Borage usually gives about 30 kg of honey per acre, and nectar excretion is benefited mostly by warm weather and moist soil. However, the benefits from borage are not only associated with beekeeping. Its blossoms are used for medical purposes, and it is also considered to be great grass for cattle. If we have to be honest, if bees disappear this will lead to disappearing of lots of fruits and vegetables, such as almonds, soy beans, apricots, melons, cherries, cucumbers, etc. The list is quite long and actually affects about a third of the fruits and vegetables on the planet.