Herpes simplex (Greek: ἕρπης herpēs, creeping or latent) is a viral disease caused by the herpes simplex virus. Infections are categorized based on the part of the body infected. Oral herpes involves the face or mouth. There are two types of herpes simplex virus, type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2). HSV-1 more commonly causes oral infections while HSV-2 more commonly causes genital infections. They are transmitted by direct contact with body fluids or lesions of an infected individual.
In contrast to a different virus that triggers vaginal Harpies; herpetic vision disease is just not sexually carried. Among the viruses that triggers herpetic eye disease is known as the varicella-zoster virus. It does not take same virus that triggers chickenpox plus shingles, a disease from the nervous system. Another virus that triggers herpetic eye disease is known as Harpies simplex type one Harpies simplex type 1 may be the same virus that triggers cold sores around the lips and mouth area.
Genital herpes is a common and highly contagious infection usually spread through sex. This infection is usually caused by the herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV-2) or the herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1), the virus usually responsible for cold sores. Genital herpes treatment includes medicines to help sores heal faster and prevent outbreaks
Two types of herpes simplex virus infections can cause genital herpes: 1  HSV-1. 2  This is the type that usually causes cold sores or fever blisters around your mouth, though it can be spread to your genital area during oral sex. 3  Recurrences are much less frequent than they are with HSV-2 infection. 1 HSV-1. 2  This is the type that usually causes cold sores or fever blisters around your mouth, though it can be spread to your genital area during oral sex. 3  Recurrences are much less frequent than they are with HSV-2 infection. 4  HSV-2.
TB is a communicable disease. A communicable disease is a disease that can be passed on in one way or another from a Carrier of the disease to some one else. and is usually th … e result of a virus or bacterial infection. 17 people found this useful. Yes. Herpes is spread by skin-to-skin contact with an infected person. Herpes is a comminicable disease and it's very common to have. But people have stigmatised it because it's contagious and because of the way it looks.
Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted infection caused by HSV (herpes simplex virus). This virus affects the genitals, the cervix, as well as the skin in other parts of the body. There are two types of herpes simplex viruses: a) HSVp1, or Herpes Type 1, and b) HSV-2, or Herpes Type 2. Herpes is a chronic condition. 
Posted on July 19, 2013 by admin. Harpies skin disease simples are really a viral ailment that affects huge numbers of people, and it is brought on by two different herpes virus types. The particular harpies skin disease really cycle between becoming active and non-active. They often present as tender spot containing contagious plus infectious virus contaminants whenever they are active. This can last between two and 21 days, and will also be accompanied by a remission time period.
The virus also causes severe disease in people with a weakened immune system. One of the most successful antiviral drugs, acyclovir, treats infections caused by both herpes simplex virus and varicella zoster virus (chicken-pox and shingles). Herpes is an entire family of related viruses. The Herpes family includes... Zoster (chicken pox) HSV 1 (predominant cause of cold sores or Herpes simplex) HSV 2 (predominant cause of genital herpes or Herpes genitalis) Zoster is spread by respiratory droplets.
When this particular virus affects the eyes, it really is known as Harpies zoster ophthalmicus. Another virus that triggers herpetic eye disease is known as Harpies simplex type one Harpies simplex type 1 may be the same virus that triggers cold sores around the lips and mouth area. Within the eye, this usually causes contamination from the cornea. This particular infection is known as Harpies simplex keratiti