The Great Gatsby is a 1925 novel written by American author F. Scott Fitzgerald that follows a cast of characters living in the fictional town of West Egg on prosperous Long Island in the summer of 1922. 
Posted on. (Answer #3). This is a valley of ashes — a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens; where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of men who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air. The description of the Valley of Ashes lies in the first few paragraphs of Chapter 2 in the Great Gatsby. It is described as a plain half way between the West Egg and New York that is bleak and gray.
RE: What do the Valley of Ashes symbolize in The Great Gatsby? Please give me at least 10 sentences about the significance of the valley of ashes in The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald. Do not copy off other sites although you may put them as your source. It is a contrast to Gatsby's parties. Commentary on the American Dream, decaying and barren. Myrtle is killed here, making it a valley of death. From Shmoop Lit on Symbols in The Great Gatsby.
“This is a valley of ashes – a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens; where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of ash-grey men, who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air. F. Scott Fitzgerald does not us the words “American Dream” in the novel, The Great Gatsby, but it is evident that he shows the impossibility of achieving happiness through the American Dream. Fitzgerald demonstrates through symbols and motifs the impossibility of the American Dream
The valley is created through industrial dumping and thus a by-product of capitalism. The people and also the environmental are suffering. Tom, Daisy, and Jordan, with their empty, void lives, are the characters represented as the formless bodies of ashes in the valley of ashes. The ashes are symbols of dead, with more self-centered and arrogant people arising from them. Every generation, the ashes pile distorting the American Dream further. F. Scott Fitzgerald does not us the words “American Dream” in the novel, The Great Gatsby, but it is evident that he shows the impossibility of achieving happiness through the American Dream. Fitzgerald demonstrates through symbols and motifs the impossibility of the American Dream
Think of the valley of ashes as one big, grey reality check. It is a contrast to Gatsby's parties. Commentary on the American Dream, decaying and barren. Myrtle is killed here, making it a valley of death. From Shmoop Lit on Symbols in The Great Gatsby. Source(s): http://www.shmoop.com/literary-device/li..
Posted on. (Answer #1). The ash heaps in The Great Gatsby is a place which is a marked contrast to the world of the ultra rich as represented by East and West Egg. It runs parallel to the railroad tracks; at some point, even the tracks veer away from the depressing place. 
First is in Fitzgerald's use of color throughout the novel. This gray would represent a dead area, without the life and vigor that other colors of the book bring about, like green and yellow. In that sense, this is where Myrtle dies, Gatsby's dream dies, Nick's hope for something good dies, etc. etc. The description of the Valley of Ashes lies in the first few paragraphs of Chapter 2 in the Great Gatsby. It is described as a plain half way between the West Egg and New York that is bleak and gray.
George and Myrtle Wilson live in the valley of the ashes, which is placed between East and West Egg and New York. Myrtle is connected to the main bulk of the story through her … affair with Tom, and George her husbands is significant towards the end of the novel, when he suspects Gatsby has murdered Myrtle. Myrtle and Tom Wilson live in The Valley of The Ashes. 'Dr T J Eckleberg' is also found here too-although the Occulist is an advertisement, symbolising a capitalist society. … Scott Fitzgerald references 'ash grey men' - however, these are not given identities.