One of Canada's historic canals, the Rideau is maintained and operated by Parks Canada to preserve and present the canal's natural and historic features, as well as to provide a navigable channel for boaters. 
Conceived as the major component of an alternative route for military purposes between Montreal montréal And, kingston The Rideau canal was first proposed as THE WAR of 1812 drew to its. Close Rideau (canal Or), waterway 202 km, long links THE OTTAWA river At ottawa WITH LAKE ontario At. kingston Rideau Canal (or Waterway), 202 km long, links the OTTAWA RIVER at Ottawa with LAKE ONTARIO at Kingston. Conceived as the major component of an alternative route for military purposes between Montreal montréal And, kingston The Rideau canal was first proposed as THE WAR of 1812 drew to its. close
The construction of the Rideau Canal was a preventive military measure undertaken after a report that during the War of 1812 the United States had intended to invade the British colony of Upper Canada via the St. Lawrence River, which would have severed the lifeline between Montreal and Kingston. The 202 kilometres (126 mi) of the Rideau Canal incorporate sections of the Rideau and Cataraqui rivers, as well as several lakes, including the Lower, Upper and Big Rideau lakes. About 19 km (12 mi) of the route is man-made.
Your location: Rideau Canal Home Page. Welcome to the Rideau Canal POPULAR LINKS The Rideau Canal is a visitor's paradise with its many historic lockstations and 202 kilometres (125 mile) of scenic waterway. The Rideau Canal; a National Historic Site of Canada, a Canadian Heritage River and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, consists of a series of beautiful lakes and rivers connected by canals.
The Rideau Canal, also known unofficially as the Rideau Waterway, connects the city of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, on the Ottawa River to the city of Kingston, Ontario, on Lake Ontario. It is 202 kilometres in length. The name Rideau, French for curtain, is derived from the curtain-like appearance of the Rideau River 's twin waterfalls where they join the Ottawa River. The canal system uses sections of two rivers, the Rideau and the Cataraqui, as well as several lakes. The Rideau Canal is operated by Parks Canada. The 202 kilometres (126 mi) of the Rideau Canal incorporate sections of the Rideau and Cataraqui rivers, as well as several lakes, including the Lower, Upper and Big Rideau lakes. About 19 km (12 mi) of the route is man-made.
Before the construction of the Rideau Canal, surveys had been conducted by Joshua Jebb and Samuel Clowes of lands required for a possible canal linking the Ottawa River near Ottawa to Lake Ontario near Kingston. Entrance of the Rideau Canal in 1839 where it meets the Ottawa River. In 1826, eight locks were constructed by the Royal Engineers with labour provided by the new Irish and French settlers. The building in the foreground is today called the Bytown Museum.
Watson’s 2015 Guide to the Rideau History of the Rideau Canal Ken W. Watson (www.rideau-info.com) version: June 18, 2015 Page 71 The biggest change came in 1972 when the Rideau Canal was transferred from the Department of Transport to Parks Canada. Watson’s 2015 Guide to the Rideau History of the Rideau Canal Ken W. Watson (www.rideau-info.com) version: June 18, 2015 Page 70 fact, the final cost was only 19 percent over By's March 1830 supplementary budget that had been accepted by the British parliament.
It stretches from Kingston, at the foot of Lake Ontario, to Ottawa, Canada's capital. Maintained by Canada's Parks service it is arguably the most scenic and historic waterway in North America. Whether you visit by boat, car, bicycle or on foot, the Rideau has something for you. The Rideau Canal is living history. The Rideau Canal is a visitor's paradise with its many historic lockstations and 202 kilometres (125 mile) of scenic waterway.
Watson’s 2015 Guide to the Rideau History of the Rideau Canal Ken W. Watson (www.rideau-info.com) version: June 18, 2015 Page 65 Unfortunately, the Duke had been bitten by a soldier's pet fox in Sorel (near Montreal) montréal two months, previously and it was In perth that the symptoms of rabies first. appeared Watson’s 2015 Guide to the Rideau History of the Rideau Canal Ken W. Watson (www.rideau-info.com) version: June 18, 2015 Page 70 fact, the final cost was only 19 percent over By's March 1830 supplementary budget that had been accepted by the British parliament.