physiologic scotoma that area of the visual field corresponding with the optic disk, in which the photosensitive receptors are absent. positive scotoma one which appears as a dark spot in the visual field, the patient being aware of it. relative scotoma an area of the visual field in which perception of light is only diminished, or loss is restricted to light of certain wavelengths. The physiological blind spot is an example of a negative scotoma but it is usually referred to as a physiological scotoma.paracentral scotoma A scotoma involving the area adjacent to the fixation area. physiological scotoma See negative scotoma. positive scotoma A scotoma of which the person is aware.
The presence of the blind spot scotoma can be demonstrated subjectively by covering one eye, carefully holding fixation with the open eye, and placing an object (such as one's thumb) in the lateral and horizontal visual field, about 15 degrees from fixation (see the blind spot article). A scotoma can be a symptom of damage to any part of the visual system, such as retinal damage from exposure to high-powered lasers, macular degeneration and brain damage. The term scotoma is also used metaphorically in several fields.
Every normal mammalian eye has a scotoma in its field of vision, usually termed its blind spot. This is a location with no photoreceptor cells, where the retinal ganglion cell axons that compose the optic nerve exit the retina. A scotoma can be a symptom of damage to any part of the visual system, such as retinal damage from exposure to high-powered lasers, macular degeneration and brain damage. The term scotoma is also used metaphorically in several fields.
negative scotoma a scotoma appearing as a blank spot in the visual field; the patient is unaware of it, and it is detected only by examination. peripheral scotoma an area of depressed vision toward the periphery of the visual field. The physiological blind spot is an example of a negative scotoma but it is usually referred to as a physiological scotoma.paracentral scotoma A scotoma involving the area adjacent to the fixation area. physiological scotoma See negative scotoma. positive scotoma A scotoma of which the person is aware.
Meaning: An isolated area of diminished vision within the visual field. Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Hypernyms (scotoma is a kind of...): vision defect; visual defect; visual disorder; visual impairment (impairment of the sense of sight). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of scotoma): annular scotoma (a circular scotoma surrounding the center of the field of vision).
positive scotoma one which appears as a dark spot in the visual field. relative scotoma an area of the visual field in which perception of light is only diminished, or loss is restricted to light of certain wavelengths. The physiological blind spot is an example of a negative scotoma but it is usually referred to as a physiological scotoma.paracentral scotoma A scotoma involving the area adjacent to the fixation area. physiological scotoma See negative scotoma. positive scotoma A scotoma of which the person is aware.
A scotoma (Greek σκότος/ skotos, skótos; darkness: plural scotomas or) scotomata is an area of partial alteration in the field of vision consisting of a partially diminished or entirely degenerated visual acuity that is surrounded by a field of – normal or relatively-well – preserved. vision A scotoma can be a symptom of damage to any part of the visual system, such as retinal damage from exposure to high-powered lasers, macular degeneration and brain damage. The term scotoma is also used metaphorically in several fields.
Scotoma. A scotoma is an area of partial alteration in the field of vision consisting of a partially diminished or entirely degenerated visual acuity that is surrounded by a field of normal – or relatively well-preserved – vision. Every normal mammalian eye has a scotoma in its field of vision, usually termed its blind spot. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: scotoma (Noun). an area of impaired or lost vision within a field of vision otherwise in a good (or at least healthy) state. Origin: From scotoma, from σκότωμα, from σκότος.
Definition of SCOTOMA. : a spot in the visual field in which vision is absent or deficient. ADVERTISEMENT. 