There are four kinds of great apes: gorillas, orangutans, chimpanzees, and bonobos. Gorillas, chimpanzees, and bonobos live in groups in Africa. Orangutans live in Indonesia and spend much of their time alone. Some scientists think that humans should be considered great apes, too. Chimpanzees share more genetic material with humans—about 99%—than they do with gorillas. Apes are larger, have fewer young (and spend a longer time raising them), spend more time upright, and depend more on their eyes than on their noses. And unlike monkeys, apes do not have tails. But the most important difference is that apes are more intelligent than monkeys.
The smallest and the most arboreal apes are the 12-13 species of gibbons. Because of their diminutive size, these members of the family Hylobatidae are also referred to as the lesser apes.. Most adult gibbons are only about 3 feet (90 cm.) tall standing upright and 12-20 pounds (5.5-9 kg.) in weight. Orangutans are intelligent and generally peaceful vegetarians. Most of the time, they live solitary lives quietly browsing fruits and leaves high up in trees. They are nearly as intelligent as the African apes, but have much more introverted personalities.
Tails— Some New World monkeys, such as spider monkeys, have prehensile tails, but Old World monkeys do not. And one Old World monkey species, the Barbary macaque, has no tail at all! Most monkey species live in the tropical rain forests of Asia, Africa, Central and South America, or the savannas of Africa. 
Montane bamboo forests are the most common habitats of eastern gorillas with the range measuring at 600–3308 m (1969-10,853 ft). Western gorillas also live in the submontane forests, lowland forests, and swamps with the range measuring 150–1600 m (492–5249 ft). Most gorillas exist in humid equatorial rainforest, but few of them reside in primary forests. Some of the most common plants that gorillas are very fond of are woody and herbaceous that grows in a place where the sunlight reaches ground. These wild animals are also the inhabitants of logged and cleared forests.
Apes are among the longest-lived of Earth's terrestrial mammals.  Homo Sapiens (Humans) can in extreme cases … live up to 120  years. Chimpanzees can live up to approximately 80 years, while  Gorillas and Orangutans can live to be about 60.
Many monkey species are tree-dwelling (arboreal), although there are species that live primarily on the ground, such as baboons. Most species are also active during the day (diurnal). Monkeys are generally considered to be intelligent, particularly Old World monkeys. 
Chimpanzees are great apes that live in the tropical rain forests of Africa from Sudan and Tanzania in the East to Senegal and Angola in the West. 1 Chimpanzees are the most social of all the apes and live in communities of between 15 and 120 individuals. 2  Their communities are often split into a number of subgroups with a male as the leader of the group. 3  Males seldom leave the community where they were born.
Apes are humanity's closest living relatives. In fact, people are apes; humans share about 98 percent of their DNA with chimpanzees. The non-human types of apes are divided into two groups: great apes — gorillas, bonobos, chimpanzees and orangutans — and lesser apes — gibbons and siamangs. The great apes live in Africa and Asia, according to the National Zoo. They tend to live in jungles, mountainous areas and savannas. Lesser apes live in Asia in evergreen tropical rainforests and monsoon forests. Siamangs prefer to live 80 to 100 feet (25 to 30 m) in the air in the trees found in Malaysia and Indonesia.
Gorillas are ground-dwelling, predominantly herbivorous apes that inhabit the forests of central Africa. The eponymous genus Gorilla is divided into two species: the eastern gorillas and the western gorillas, and either four or five subspecies. In addition, eastern lowland gorillas live in montane bamboo forests, as well as lowland forests ranging from 600–3,308 m (1,969–10,853 ft) in elevation. Western gorillas live in both lowland swamp forests and montane forests, and elevations ranging from sea level to 1,600 m (5,200 ft).
CHIMPANZEES. Chimpanzees are great apes that live in the tropical rain forests of Africa from Sudan and Tanzania in the East to Senegal and Angola in the West. Democratic Republic of the Congo has the largest population, although chimpanzees have become extinct in some areas. 1 Chimpanzees are the most social of all the apes and live in communities of between 15 and 120 individuals. 2  Their communities are often split into a number of subgroups with a male as the leader of the group. 3  Males seldom leave the community where they were born.