At this point we can begin to form conclusions as to the meaning of Isaiah 7:14 and the use of the word for the promised child s name as Immanuel. The literal meaning of the text must first be applied. This study is aimed at finding the true meaning of Immanuel in Isaiah 7:14. Often this messianic prophecy is used as proof texts for the deity of Jesus Christ because of the words, Immanuel, (God with us). Contrary to popular belief, this passage does NOT affirm Jesus as Go
Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Remaliah. adorned by the Lord, the father of Pekah, who conspired successfully against Pekahiah (2 Kings 15:25 2 Kings 15:27 2 Kings 15:30 2 Kings 15:32 2 Kings 15:37; Isaiah 7:1 Isaiah 7:4 Isaiah 7:5 Isaiah 7:9; 8:6). Public Domain, copy freely. [N] indicates this entry was also found in Nave's Topical Bible[H] indicates this entry was also found in Hitchcock's Bible Names[S] indicates this entry was also found in Smith's Bible Dictionary Bibliography Information Easton, Matthew George. Entry for Remaliah. Easton's Bible Dictionary. 
Isaiah 7:14 Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel. KJV. Isaiah 8:3 Then said the LORD to me, Call his NAME Maher-shalal-hash-baz. This study is aimed at finding the true meaning of Immanuel in Isaiah 7:14. Often this messianic prophecy is used as proof texts for the deity of Jesus Christ because of the words, Immanuel, (God with us). Contrary to popular belief, this passage does NOT affirm Jesus as God
REMALIAH. rem-a-li'-a (remalyahu, whom Yahweh has adorned): The father of Pekah (2 Kings 15:25; Isaiah 7:4; 8:6). The contemptuous allusion to Pekah as the son of Remaliah in Isaiah 7:4 (similarly the son of Kish, 1 Samuel 10:11) may be a slur on Remaliah's humble origin. Public Domain, copy freely. [N] indicates this entry was also found in Nave's Topical Bible[H] indicates this entry was also found in Hitchcock's Bible Names[S] indicates this entry was also found in Smith's Bible Dictionary Bibliography Information Easton, Matthew George. Entry for Remaliah. Easton's Bible Dictionary. 
NASB Translation. Remaliah (13). רְמַלְיָ֫הוּ proper name, masculine father of Pekah, king of Israrel, ׳ בֶּןרֿ 2 Kings 15:25 ,27,30,32,37; 2 Kings 16:1,5; Isaiah 7:1; 2Chronicles 28:6; contemptuous (מֶּקַח omitted) Isaiah 7:4 ,5,9; Isaiah 8:6 υιὃς ῥομελίου.
Isaiah 7:14 Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel. Matthew 1:23 Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. This study is aimed at finding the true meaning of Immanuel in Isaiah 7:14. Often this messianic prophecy is used as proof texts for the deity of Jesus Christ because of the words, Immanuel, (God with us). Contrary to popular belief, this passage does NOT affirm Jesus as God
Meaning of Remaliah. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Remaliah means-the exaltation of the lord.The name Remaliah originated as an Israeli name. The name Remaliah is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning-the exaltation of the lord
He was a captain in the army of king Pekahiah of Israel, whom he killed to become king. Pekah was the son of Remaliah (/rɛm.ə.ˈlaɪ.ə/ ; Latin: Romelia). Pekah became king in the fifty-second and last year of Azariah, king of Judah, and he reigned twenty years. In the second year of his reign Jotham became king of Judah, and reigned for sixteen years. Jotham was succeeded by his son, Ahaz in the seventeenth year of Pekah's reign. 