Calls typically cost between 5p and 12.5p per minute for landline customers. From a mobile phone, calls may cost between 25p and 41p per minute. Services provided on these numbers are regulated by *PhonepayPlus to provide additional protection for callers. You can fi nd out more information at www.phonepayplus.org.uk. Calls from landlines are typically charged between 1p and 9p per minute and calls from mobiles between 5p and 31p per minute. For landlines there is normally also a call setup fee and call charges are dependent on the time of day.
£7.95 a month plus BT line rental – see standard line rental note for prices, when signing up to a 12 month minimum term. Landline calls to UK mobiles will be charged at 6.41 pence per minute, you'll pay a 17.07p set up fee (+ rounding) for every mobile call you make. Unlimited BT Broadband includes Unlimited UK*Weekend Calls and a BT Home Hub (unless BT has already provided you with one). If you leave in the first year, we'll charge you up to £55 towards the cost of your new Hub. You'll need to pay by Direct Debit. There's a £6.95 delivery charge for the Hub
£7.95 a month plus BT line rental – see standard line rental note for prices, when signing up to a 12 month minimum term. Landline calls to UK mobiles will be charged at 6.41 pence per minute, you'll pay a 17.07p set up fee (+ rounding) for every mobile call you make. Unlimited BT Infinity 1 includes Unlimited UK* Weekend Calls and a BT Home Hub. You'll need to pay by Direct Debit. There's a £35 activation charge and a £6.95 delivery charge for the Hub. If you leave in the first year, we'll charge you up to £65 towards the cost of your new Hub.
Calling a mobile from a BT landline will now cost less. BT has announced it is to cut the cost of landline to mobile calls. Prices will be reduced by 13% during the day and by 24% for evening calls. Making an evening call to a mobile on any of the major mobile networks, will now cost BT landline customers 5.3p per minute, reduced from 7p per minute. Calling in the daytime is still more expensive, but will now cost BT's landline customers 11.3p per minute instead of 13p. BT customers can take advantage of the cheaper prices from this weekend onwards as the new charges apply from 28 May. Related content:
Cheap Broadband. B'band & line rent 183 for 12mths, plus get a 120 vch. BT is the first provider to make the cuts, with reductions of 1.7p on daytime and evening calls, making them 11.3p per minute and 5.3p per minute, respectively. Yet using your home phone to call a mobile is still pricey
For new BT Broadband customers that sign up for an 12 months and pay BT line rental. You'll pay £21 a month from month 13. Infinity 1 includes a 40GB usage limit, Unlimited UK* Weekend Calls and a BT Home Hub. If you leave in the first year, we'll charge you up to £65 towards the cost of your new Hub. Unlimited BT Infinity 1 includes Unlimited UK* Weekend Calls and a BT Home Hub. You'll need to pay by Direct Debit. There's a £35 activation charge and a £6.95 delivery charge for th
Calls to 0845 and 0870 numbers may be free from your BT landline depending on which calling plan you're on (excluding calls to dial-up Internet, Calling Card and Dial-through access numbers). You can easily manage your calling plan by logging in to My BT. Or see: 
Calls typically cost between 10p and £1.65 per minute for landline customers but can cost a lot more from a mobile phone, up to £2.55 per minute. *PhonepayPlus (previously known as ICSTIS) regulates phone-paid services in the UK. Calls from landlines are typically charged between 1p and 9p per minute and calls from mobiles between 5p and 31p per minute. For landlines there is normally also a call setup fee and call charges are dependent on the time of day.