Firefighters hold one of the most important, yet dangerous, jobs. Their positions require them to put out fires, respond to other emergencies, and keep the public informed of fire safety and hazards. When an individual is interested in a career as a firefighter, they may start their training by becoming a volunteer. To become a volunteer, a person needs to be at least 18 years old, and have a high school diploma. There are also special schools for those interested in the firefighting field. Here they will receive intense training on preventing fires, injuries due to fires, smoke detector inspection, hazardous materials, and use of all fire station equipment. These training programs normally last between four to six months.
1. To be a firefighter, you usually need a high school diploma and a college program in fire protection technology or a related program. You must pass physical agility, strength, fitness, and vision requirements. Previous experience as a volunteer firefighter may also be an advantage. 2.
Best Answer: Any college degree will help you in getting a job in the fire service. However, you will need to have your EMT cert, as well as go to a accredited fire academy. First you'll need to get your first responder and then get your emt. Find a local academy to attend, unless you can find a fire dept that has volunteers. They give you all the training you need to obtain your firefighter 1 cert
The same can be applied to the career of a firefighter, mainly due to the fact that most departments require certain certifications and credentials, such as the emergency medical technician (EMT), and at the very least a high diploma or GED. 
Applicants to firefighter positions need to be at least 18 years old and have a valid driver’s license. They must pass physical and written tests, a drug screening exam and medical exam. In terms of formal education, most fire departments require only a high school diploma or equivalent. 
Education requirements for entry-level firefighters include the completion of a high school diploma or equivalent and possession of a current driver’s license. You’ll need to be at least 18 years of age. Once hired, firefighters typically receive training from the fire department where the firefighter is employed or from a state fire school. College-level coursework in fire science can boost your chances of gaining entry-level jobs in urban or forest firefighting. 2.
Most firefighters have at least a postsecondary, non-degree award in a discipline related to fire science, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, many fire departments only require a high school diploma or equivalent for entry into the profession. 