In March 1920 the US Senate finally killed the treaty. The United States did not ratify the Treaty of Versailles and we did not join the League of Nations. Wilson considered this a great failure and it plagued him until his death. Disgust was deepening. In March 1920 the US Senate finally killed the treaty. The United States did not ratify the Treaty of Versailles and we did not join the League of Nations. Wilson considered this a great failure and it plagued him until his death. Many Americans saw US involvement in WWI as a waste of time.
The Signing of the Peace Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I. The treaty was made in 1919, but the German government did not participate in it. The treaty failed to keep peace in the end, and was a reason for Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler to win the support of the poorer Germans to get rid of the chains of Versailles, leading to World War II.
Treaty of Versailles and President Wilson, 1919 and 1921. View this item in the Collection. The Treaty of Versailles, which ended World War I, was drafted at the Paris Peace Conference in the spring of 1919 and shaped by the Big Four powers—Great Britain, France, Italy, and the United States. 
Why did the United States fail to ratify the Versailles Treaty and join the League of Nations? Personal enmity between Wilson and Lodge played a part. Wilson might have prudently invited a prominent Republican to accompany him to Paris to help ensure its later passage. Germany was to admit guilt for the war and pay unlimited reparations. The German military was reduced to a domestic police force and its territory was truncated to benefit the new nations of Eastern Europe. The territories of Alsace and Lorraine were restored to France.
The Treaty Of Versailles Significance. The significance of the Treaty of Versailles is that it helped to bring an end to World War I and also helped in deciding the fate of Germany after the war came to an end. To under the significance of the treaty, it is important to first understand the mindset of the signatories. Why Did The Treaty Of Versailles Fail. Many historians claim that the Treaty of Versailles was a failure because it ultimately led to the rise of Adolf Hitler, Second World War and the Holocaust. However, the big question is why did the Treaty of Versailles fail
The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I. The treaty failed to keep peace in the end, and was a reason for Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler to win the support of the poorer Germans to get rid of the chains of Versailles, leading to World War II.
Causes of WWII— Treaty of Versailles, Failure of the League of Nations, and Policy of Appeasement. The Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles made at the end of WWI was a major cause of the Second World War. The Treaty of Versailles had severe conditions and demanded Germany to pay a huge amount of money for the damages that they had done to the victorious countries. The failure of the League of Nations also contributed significantly to the Second World War. After WWI ended, countries such as Canada, France and Britain. formed the League of Nations, an international organization intended to maintain world peace.
45d. The Big 4 of the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 were (left to right) Lloyd George of England, Orlando of Italy, Clemenceau of France, and Woodrow Wilson of the United States. Literary Digest. As the war drew to a close, Woodrow Wilson set forth his plan for a  just peace .. Germany was to admit guilt for the war and pay unlimited reparations. The German military was reduced to a domestic police force and its territory was truncated to benefit the new nations of Eastern Europe. The territories of Alsace and Lorraine were restored to France.