Substitution. Codeine and promethazine get you high – there are substitute drugs that you can take that fool the brain into thinking you are taking codeine, but that do not get you high. By using one of these substitute medications, you can function normally once again, and avoid the pains of a cold turkey detox. Getting Off. There are three basic options for codeine with promethazine detox. You can try a cold turkey detox, either alone or with medical support. You can taper down the dosage over time or you can use a substitute opiate, like methadone or Suboxone.
Although codeine can be extracted from natural sources, a semi-synthetic process is the primary source of codeine for pharmaceutical use. It is considered the prototype of the weak to midrange opioids (tramadol, dextropropoxyphene, dihydrocodeine, hydrocodone, oxycodone). The conversion of codeine to morphine occurs in the liver and is catalyzed by the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2D6. CYP3A4 produces norcodeine and UGT2B7 conjugates codeine, norcodeine, and morphine to the corresponding 3- and 6- glucuronides.
Also, for children younger than 12 years, do not use codeine to treat cough or pain unless specifically directed by the doctor. Some children are more sensitive to codeine and have had very serious (rarely fatal) breathing problems such as slow/shallow breathing (see also Side Effects section). Use this drug for a condition that is listed in this section only if it has been so prescribed by your health care professional. Codeine may also be used to control a cough. HOW TO USE: Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor. Pain medications work best when taken at the first signs of pain.
Over the counter, NO! You need a prescription, as it is a controlled substance, but they combine the 2 drugs for mild to moderate pain. The dose of Tylenol (Acetaminophen) is … usually 500 Mg's. The most commonly prescribed dose of Codeine is: 45 mg. It is referred to as a T-3. They come in 4 strengths. NO. It is a semi synthetic narcotic and a ketone of codeine, but it was synthesized as to not being codeine. It is 8 times stronger than codeine on a weight to weight bases, a … nd instead of a 2.5 hour half life, it has a 3.8 hour half life. It is also a bitartrate, rather than a sulfate base.
Well. Depending on severity of pain, the only REAL painkillers are in fact narcotic opiates like codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone. If your pain is less severe and you are worried about becoming addicted, it shouldn't be a problem unless you take enough to get high for a few days in a row. NO. It is a semi synthetic narcotic and a ketone of codeine, but it was synthesized as to not being codeine. It is 8 times stronger than codeine on a weight to weight bases, a … nd instead of a 2.5 hour half life, it has a 3.8 hour half life. It is also a bitartrate, rather than a sulfate base.
Also, for children younger than 12 years, do not use codeine to treat cough or pain unless specifically directed by the doctor. Some children are more sensitive to codeine and have had very serious (rarely fatal) breathing problems such as slow/shallow breathing (see also Side Effects section). 
Hernia Answer A1319. You can request a prescription for some other painkillers such as tramadol, ketoprofen, diclofenak, ibuprofen, etc. as a substitute for codeine Tramadol is also opiate analgesic like codeine. The rest of the painkillers are non-opiate based forumulas