Broadly put, a lease agreement is a contract between two parties, the lessor and the lessee. The lessor is the legal owner of the asset, the lessee obtains the right to use the asset in return for rental payments. The narrower term rental agreement can be used to describe a lease in which the asset is tangible property. Language used is that the user rents the land or goods let or rented out by the owner. The verb to lease is less precise because it can refer to either of these actions. The term rental agreement is also sometimes used to describe a periodic lease agreement (most often a month-to-month lease) internationally and in some regions of the United States.
A land lease--also called a ground lease--is a lease agreement that permits the tenant to use a piece of land owned by the landlord in exchange for rent. Land leases work very similarly to the way traditional property leases operate, and tenants can enter into both residential and commercial agreements. 
A lease is a contractual arrangement calling for the lessee (user) to pay the lessor (owner) for use of an asset. The term rental agreement is also sometimes used to describe a periodic lease agreement (most often a month-to-month lease) internationally and in some regions of the United States.
lease. n. 1. A contract granting use or occupation of property during a specified period in exchange for a specified rent or other form of payment. 2. The term or duration of such a contract. tr.v. leased, leas·ing, leas·es. 1. To grant use or occupation of under the terms of a contract. 2. To get or hold by such a contract. a new lease on life. An opportunity to improve one's circumstances or outlook.
Full Definition of LEASE. 1. : a contract by which one conveys real estate, equipment, or facilities for a specified term and for a specified rent; also: the act of such conveyance or the term for which it is made. 2. : a piece of land or property that is leased. 3. See lease defined for English-language learners. Definition of LEASE for Kids. 1. : an agreement by which a person exchanges property (as a car or house) for a period of time in return for payment or services. 2. : a piece of property that is leased
The leasing of a brand name to a company other than the owner of that particular brand. As an example, a beer company located in Europe could lease its brand name to an American brewer. 
Lease agreement [edit]. Lease agreements typically stipulate an early termination fee and limit the number of miles a lessee can drive (for passenger cars, a common number is 10,000 miles per annum though the amount can be stipulated by the customer and can be 12,000 to 15,000 miles per year). Vehicle Leasing offers advantages to both buyers and sellers. For the buyer, lease payments will usually be lower than payments on a car loan would be, and qualification is often easier.