So what is the definition of napalm? While it has many definitions, in this context is referring a “aluminum soap of various fatty acids that when mixed with gasoline makes a firm jelly used in some bombs and in flamethrowers” or “an incendiary mixture of polystyrene, benzene, and gasoline”. Related Items.
Napalm is a combination of the names of two of the constituents of the thickening/gelling agent: co-precipitated aluminium salts of naphthenic and palmitic acids. Napalm B is the more modern version of napalm and, although distinctly different in its chemical composition, is often referred to simply as napalm. Napalm was first employed in incendiary bombs and went on to be used as fuel for flamethrowers. The first recorded strategic use of napalm incendiary bombs occurred in an attack by the US Army Air Force on Berlin on 6 March 1944, using American AN-M76 incendiary bombs with PT-1 (Pyrogel) filler.
Napalm is flammable liquid used in warfare. It is a mixture of a gelling agent and petroleum or a similar fuel. It was initially used as an incendiary device against buildings and later primarily as an anti-personnel weapon, as it sticks to skin and causes severe burns when on fire. Napalm was first employed in incendiary bombs and went on to be used as fuel for flamethrowers. The first recorded strategic use of napalm incendiary bombs occurred in an attack by the US Army Air Force on Berlin on 6 March 1944, using American AN-M76 incendiary bombs with PT-1 (Pyrogel) filler.
Best Answer: John Mayer refers to Jessica Simpson as 'sexual napalm' - it means that he had an unhealthy sexual relationship that did not make him feel satisfied, regardless of how great the act itself was. He had an intense sexual craving for her. That’s all I’ll say. It was like napalm, sexual napalm… So basically, napalm here truly refers to the definition stated above. Napalm was used to describe John Mayer’s addiction, just like a drug, to Jessica Simpson. Source(s): http://www.showbizgossips.com/napalm-mea..
• NAPALM (noun). The noun NAPALM has 1 sense: 1. gasoline jelled with aluminum soaps; highly incendiary liquid used in fire bombs and flame throwers. Familiarity information: NAPALM used as a noun is very rare. Nouns denoting substances. Hypernyms (napalm is a kind of...): gas; gasolene; gasoline; petrol (a volatile flammable mixture of hydrocarbons (hexane and heptane and octane etc.) derived from petroleum; used mainly as a fuel in internal-combustion engines).
What is the meaning of sexual napalm? The term “sexual napalm” was made popular by John Mayer in a Playboy interview when he described ex-girlfriend Jessica Simpson as sexual napalm. Within its context, he was explaining that he was sexually addicted to Simpson, in a potentially destructive fashion. 
Napalm. U.S. troops used a substance known as napalm from about 1965 to 1972 in the Vietnam War; napalm is a mixture of plastic polystyrene, hydrocarbon benzene, and gasoline. This mixture creates a jelly-like substance that, when ignited, sticks to practically anything and burns up to ten minutes. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: napalm (Noun). A highly flammable, viscous substance, (designed to stick to the body while burning), used in warfare to cause widespread death and destruction, especially in wooded areas. napalm (Verb). To spray or attack an area using such substance. Napalm B is the more modern version of napalm and, although distinctly different in its chemical composition, it is often referred to simply as napalm. Napalm was first used in World War Two. In 1980, the United Nations declared the gel's use on concentrations of civilians a war crime.
Napalm. Napalm is a mixture of a thickening/gelling agent and petroleum or a similar fuel for use in an incendiary device. Initially used against buildings and later primarily as an anti-personnel weapon that sticks to skin and causes severe burns when on fire. Napalm B is the more modern version of napalm and, although distinctly different in its chemical composition, it is often referred to simply as napalm. Napalm was first used in World War Two. In 1980, the United Nations declared the gel's use on concentrations of civilians a war crime.