Rose ONeal Greenhow was the Confederacys most celebrated female spy at the start of the Civil War. A popular Washington widow and hostess, Mrs. Greenhow moved easily in the social circles of the nations capital. Few were better connected than she when hostilities commenced in the spring of 1861. 
Rose O'Neal Greenhow (right), or Wild Rose as she was sometimes called, was a successful and celebrated Confederate spy during the American Civil War. Rose O'Neal Greenhow was able to use her powerful social connections in Washington to gather valuable information. Some of the things she learned proved to be of use to the Confederate leadership.
Rose O'Neal Greenhow was born in Montgomery County, Maryland in 1817. Wild Rose, as she was called from a young age, was a leader in Washington society, a passionate secessionist, and one of the most renowned spies in the Civil War. Among her accomplishments was the secret message she sent to General Pierre G.T. 
During the Civil War, a number of women were arrested for intelligence work on behalf of the Confederacy, but none achieved the celebrity of Rose O Neal Greenhow. Her story is filled with intrigue, love, and tragedy. 
Rose O'Neal Greenhow (1813 or 1814 – October 1, 1864) was a renowned Confederate spy during the American Civil War. In 1993, the women's auxiliary of the Sons of Confederate Veterans changed its name to the Order of the Confederate Rose in Greenhow's honor, following publicity about her exploits in a TV movie the previous year. A new biography of her was published in 2005.
As a child, Rose O'Neal Greenhow was orphaned, and went to Washington D.C. to live with her aunt, in the stylish boarding house and private school her aunt ran in the Old Capitol building. Rose was very well liked in Washington society. Rose O'Neal Greenhow was able to use her powerful social connections in Washington to gather valuable information. Some of the things she learned proved to be of use to the Confederate leadership.
Civil War: Confederate Spy-Rose O'Neal Greenhow: Papers-Letters-Memoirs-Histories. 1,111 pages of letters, papers, memoirs, histories, and photos related to Rose O'Neal Greenhow. Rose O'Neal Greenhow (1817-1864) was a popular socialite in Washington, DC, and a spy for the South during the Civil War. Her nicknames were Wild Rose and Rebel Rose. She was born in Port Tobacco, Maryland, in 1817. Her father, John O'Neal, was a planter and was murdered when Greenhow was an infant. 
Rose O'Neal Greenhow (1817-1864) was a popular socialite in Washington, DC, and a spy for the South during the Civil War. The National Archives has digitized and made available in the National Archives Catalog 175 documents that the U.S. Intelligence Service seized from Greenhow's home in August 1861. As a young woman in the nation's capital, Rose O'Neal Greenhow befriended many influential politicians, including President James Buchanan and South Carolina Senator John C. Calhoun.
Rose O'Neal Greenhow. Wild Rose, as she was called from a young age, was a leader in Washington society, a passionate secessionist, and one of the most renowned spies in the Civil War. Among her accomplishments was the secret message she sent to General Pierre G.T. 
Rose O'Neal Greenhow was a great Civil War spy, and a brave woman who lost her life supporting her cause in the American Civil War. American Civil War Story-Home. Rose O'Neal Greenhow was able to use her powerful social connections in Washington to gather valuable information. Some of the things she learned proved to be of use to the Confederate leadership.