But the math doesn't work out that way every time. Mark Bittman, a writer for The New York Times, compared a meal for a family of four at McDonald's to a home-cooked meal of roast chicken, potatoes and a salad. Based on prices in a Brooklyn grocery store, the McDonald's meals were $14 more than the home-cooked meal. For some it's a matter of convenience, for others it's budget -- and for many it's both. But is eating fast food really cheaper than eating a meal prepared at home? If you consider health in your definition of cost, home-cooked meals are far better than fast food -- anyone would agree on that.
The website The Daily Green shared 15 ways going green can help you save big: 1. Carpool (Estimated Cost Savings: $650 - $1,000). The Daily Green calculated that the average American uses about 7 gallons of gas per week commuting to and from work. The average American family spends an average of $118 on books, magazine and newspaper subscriptions per year, says The Daily Green.. But you can save that money by borrowing books from a library, and save space too. 11.
At an average cost of $12.75 per meal, you’d save yourself $8.75 for each of those meals. In other words, the average American would save $36.75 per person per week by moving all of their meals from restaurants to home-prepared meals. Let’s look at a more realistic picture. 
Average Balances. The average savings account balance in the U.S. was $5,923 in 2011, according to a 2012 report by Pitney Bowes, a document-management services company. This represented an increase of just under 3 percent from the $5,753 balance in 2010. New Jersey residents saved the most, with average savings account balances of $7,872, while those in New Mexico had accounts averaging just $4,119, the lowest in the U.S. Savings accounts aren't the only way to sock money away for a rainy day. Pitney Bowes says the average checking account balance in 2011 was $3,100, up from $2,947 in 2010. As with savings accounts, checking account balances were also highest in New Jersey, with an average balance of $4,465
Going green and saving money can be as easy as taking a trip to the library. The average American family spends an average of $118 on books, magazine and newspaper subscriptions per year, says The Daily Green.. But you can save that money by borrowing books from a library, and save space too. 11. Switch to Energy-Efficient Lighting (Estimated Cost Savings: $112). According to the Daily Green, lighting represents about 11 percent of a home's energy bill — $210 annually on average
You'll save even more with bell peppers. With a $12 investment in six plants, you can reap up to 120 pounds (54 kilograms) of peppers [source: Iowa State University ]. That lowers the price per pound from $2.37 in stores to 10 cents. Easy-to-grow broccoli also costs less than a third of the retail price per pound, at around 50 cents rather than $1.37.
Even investing small amounts of money can make a big difference, particularly for the younger generations. Consider: If a 35-year-old saved the average amount ($1,690) last year and invested it in the stock market for 30 years, it would be worth $12,500 in today's dollars by the time he or she retired. There are lots of ways to boost your savings beyond the averages for your age
Eat at a restaurant, pay $20. Eat at home, pay $8. Sure, you have to buy it and make it yourself -- and everyone can't get something different -- by still, this is a ton of money. You can see how someone eating out can spend a small fortune versus a person that eats mostly at home. 
He then compared the same meal to an even cheaper dinner of rice and beans with bacon, peppers and onions for an even greater savings of $18 [source: Bittman ]. Clearly, you can save a lot by not eating fast food. For some it's a matter of convenience, for others it's budget -- and for many it's both. But is eating fast food really cheaper than eating a meal prepared at home? If you consider health in your definition of cost, home-cooked meals are far better than fast food -- anyone would agree on that.