There will then be a root cause analysis case study. One of the most common complaints made about incident reports in the NHS is the lack of consistency. The aim of this course is to ensure a consistent approach to investigations that is supportive and solution orientated. 
Five whys and cause and effect diagrams. The five whys can be used independently or as a part of a cause and effect diagram. The diagram helps you explore all potential or real causes which result in a failure or problem. Once you have established all the inputs on the cause and effect diagram, you can use the five whys technique to drill down to the root causes. You may find that you will identify the root cause of the issue identified. The next suggested step is to complete a cause and effect diagram. Brainstorming to help you to identify potential solutions to the cause identified.
Cause and effect analysis helps you to think through the causes of a problem thoroughly, including its possible root causes. It is only by identifying the main causes that you can permanently remove the problem, or reduce the delay. A cause and effect diagram is a tool that helps you do this. The 'effect' is the problem you are working on, for example 'waiting time'. The tool can help you identify major causes and indicate the most fruitful areas for further investigation. It will help you understand the problem more clearly. For Example: 1  Take each of the main categories and brainstorm possible causes of the problem. 2  Then, explore each one to identify more specific 'causes of causes'. 3  Continue branching off until every possible cause has been identified. 4  Where a cause is complex, you might break it down into sub-causes.
Root Cause Analysis (RCA) investigation. Every day a million people are treated safely and successfully in the NHS. However, when incidents do happen, it is important that lessons are learned to prevent the same incident occurring elsewhere. Root Cause Analysis investigation is a well recognised way of doing this. Investigations identify how and why patient safety incidents happen
Root cause analysis (RCA) is a systematic process for identifying “root causes” of problems or events and an approach for responding to them. Root cause analysis is not a one-size-fits-all methodology. There are many different tools, processes, and philosophies of accomplishing RCA. In fact, it was born out of a need to analyze various enterprise activities such as: 1  Accident analysis and occupational safety and health.
This Root Cause Analysis (RCA) online toolkit has been created to guide NHS staff through the process of conducting an RCA investigation. Ensuring patients are treated safely is the top priority for NHS staff. The online toolkit enables the user to: 1  understand what an RCA investigation is. 2  develop appropriate knowledge and skill to play a part in an RCA investigation. 3  develop a causal-based approach to the analysis of issues and problems that threaten patient safety, rather than one of blame. 4  Root Cause Analysis toolkit.
OBJECTIVES: Root cause analysis (RCA) is a framework for structured investigations of safety incidents. Our aim was to identify the barriers to successful learning in health care and to make recommendations for service development. RESULTS: There are several challenges to undertaking root cause analysis in health care. These are associated with forming and leading the investigation team; gathering and analysing supporting evidence; and formulating and implementing service improvements.
Root Cause Analysis (RCA) investigation is a well-recognised way of doing this. RCA Investigations identify how and why patient safety incidents happen. Analysis is used to identify areas for change and to develop recommendations which deliver safer care for our patients. 