Faith is one of the most straightforward of the virtue names popularized by the Puritans in the seventeenth century, many parents still choosing it as an indicator of their religious conviction. And Faith is rising in popularity--she's been in the Top 100 for all of the twenty-first century, peaking in 2002 at Number 48. In addition, Faith and Hope was the fourth most popular pairing for twin girls born in 2011.
Faith /faith/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced fayth. It is of Middle English origin, and the meaning of Faith is  belief . A virtue name meaning trust in God. The name was used in the 16th century, and was very popular among the Puritans of the 17th. Actress Faith Prince; singer Faith Hill. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Faith. Faith is essentially an English vocabulary word that defines the firm belief or trust in a supreme being, namely God. Obviously the word goes beyond just its religious meaning, but it’s from this perspective that the female given name, Faith, originates as a so-called “virtue” name. In fact, the only other “virtue” name higher on the charts right now than Faith is Grace. If you like the name Faith but want to be a little more original or creative, there are two other baby girl names on America’s Top 1000 list meaning the same. Imani is the Swahili word for Faith and Vera is Russian for Faith
Simply from the English word faith, ultimately from Latin fidere to trust. This was one of the virtue names adopted by the Puritans in the 17th century. 
Origin of the name Faith: Derived from faith, which denotes unquestioning belief and complete trust in God. The word has its root in the Latin fides (confidence, belief). Faith, a very popular name among the 17th-century Puritans, continues to be an often-used name among modern Christians. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Faith: | Edit. To the first poster... my name is also Faith ... however, my family was NOT religious at all. Faith was a family name. Because we were basically Agnostics I did not give any Religous connection to it.
The word Faith translated from the word in Ancient Greek, from which the Bible was translated from the word pistis - which meanings include conviction or assurance. Pistis in turn is a derivation of the Ancient Greek word peitho which means to wax confident. 
What does Faith mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Faith is of Latin origin. The meaning of Faith is to trust. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is faith the other two cardinal virtues are hope and charity. 
Greek Meaning: The name Faith is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Faith is: Confidence; trust; belief. Latin Meaning: The name Faith is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Faith is: Confidence; trust; belief. American Meaning: The name Faith is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Faith is: Confidence; trust; belief.