The ones that we are primarily concerned about are the keyhole and slit limpets. These are limpet-shaped snails with a perforation on the top of the shell (keyhole limpets) or a slit on the front shell margins (slit limpets). These animals are generally carnivorous, and will eat sponges, soft corals, and other sessile animals. These limpets are exceptionally well equipped to eat these algae. They have a radula with teeth made of a mixture of iron salts (primarily hematite) and silica (in the form of opal). This gives them a rasping organ with a value of 7 or 8 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness.
I was going to go with Fleshy Limpet but the information I found states that these are Keyhole Limpets as well. However, the information also states that they are about the size of a shield limpet or smaller. I have a shield limpet and my yellow limpet is much bigger than the shield limpet. Of course you could be stating that it is just a unusual looking limpet. In which case, I totally agree.
Shield limpets, Scutus unguis, are commonly collected on Indo-Pacific live rock. They may reach lengths of an inch or a bit larger (up to about 3 cm). Most of the size is due to the fleshy black mantle that covers the shell. These animals are nocturnal and will hide under and between rocks during the day. These limpets are exceptionally well equipped to eat these algae. They have a radula with teeth made of a mixture of iron salts (primarily hematite) and silica (in the form of opal). This gives them a rasping organ with a value of 7 or 8 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness.
Commonly called top or turban snails these animals are fundamentally similar in shape and in natural history. In this column, I will be discussing other algae-eating snails, specifically the Abalones, Limpets, and Nerites. These limpets are exceptionally well equipped to eat these algae. They have a radula with teeth made of a mixture of iron salts (primarily hematite) and silica (in the form of opal). This gives them a rasping organ with a value of 7 or 8 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness.
Defenses & predators. Defenses of limpets include attachment strength, shell, escape crawling, and camouflage (both visual and chemical). Chief predators are crabs, fishes, and sea stars when the tide is in, and birds when the tide is out. There is overlap between defenses and predators. Keyhole limpets Diodora aspera are often richly adorned with growths of colonial tunicates, sponges, and bryozoans. Whether this is for visual or chemical camouflage is not known. The individual in the photo on the Right seems visually camouflaged (to our eyes), but not the one on the Left.
The limpets we sell are the herbivorous Black Ribbed Limpets, (Lottia leucopleura). They eat algae and diatoms-they are 100% reef safe. Limpets are similar to snails, except they have a round shell that caps the top of their body, they cling closely to rock to cover their bottom half, (as compared to the more evolved snail that can retract into its shell). However, limpets are unable to right themselves if they are turned upside down unless there is a strong current for them to utilize.When adding limpets to your tank, place them on the rocks so they can establish a grip. During this time, before they can seal themselves down, they may be vulnerable to predation.
The class Gastropoda includes snails and slugs of all kinds and all sizes from microscopic to large. There are many thousands of species of sea snails and sea slugs, as well as freshwater snails, freshwater limpets, land snails and land slugs. The class Gastropoda contains a vast total of named species, second only to the insects in overall number. The fossil history of this class goes back to the Late Cambrian. There are 611 families of gastropods known, of which 202 are extinct and appear only in the fossil record. However, eyes in gastropods range from simple ocelli that only distinguish light and dark, to more complex pit eyes, and even to lens eyes. In land snails and slugs, vision is not the most important sense, because they are mainly nocturnal animals.
This behaviour contrasts with that of the same species in Alderney, where foraging is limited to nocturnal low waters: there is possibly a geographical trend in behaviour. P. vulgata, especially in the Isle of Man, is one of the more mobile limpets. There are few other observations on the speed of limpet movement. Cook et al. (1969) record a maximum of 1 .5 cm min-1 for P. vulgata over a 5-min period, and this is a better estimate of the maximum speed than the 1 .13 cm min -1 of the present study based on a 1-hr observation.