All of our transfers are performed in a private vehicle.All prices shown on this website are total prices, and you will not be charged any more than the price you see. The cost of our taxi and minibus fares from Malaga airport can be found on our price page. We supply taxis to Torremolinos, Torrox, Velez Malaga, Benalmadena, Marbella, Puerto Banus, Nerja, Granada and many other destinations on the Costa Del Sol. 
Malaga Taxi Airport will provide you with best airport transfer and shuttle service to Malaga. Costa del Sol or everywhere in Spain. Our company is known by excelence in offering airport transfers and taxi service at best prices. Furthermore, our helpfull driver will assist you in your low price transfer. Knowing the area and speaking english he will drive you directly to address of your hotel, resort, apartment or your home from Malaga Airport
Malaga airport taxis. Welcome to MalagaTaxi.co.uk, here you can find transfers from Malaga airport to any place in southern Spain. We have been operating for over 25 years in Spain and in the UK. 
Malaga airport taxi transfers have two tariff bands: Malaga Airport transfer Band 1 *(weekdays from 06.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m.): metre starts at €3,48; kilometre travelled, €0,84; hour's wait, €18,47; minimum service from the airport, €15,21. 
Licensed Taxis. SkyBusSpain.com offers fully licensed and insured taxis to transfer you from Malaga airport to your hotel, resort, villa or apartment anywhere in the Costa del Sol. We are available 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Travel with ease from Malaga Airport in your pre-booked taxi. The majority of our taxi drivers are English speaking and all will be fully conversant with your travel requirements and details.
Malaga Taxi and Minibus Transfers. Malaga Airport Taxi provide low cost taxi and minibus transfers from Malaga Airport. Our booking process is very simple. You do not need to pay anything in advance. No credit card details and no booking fees at all. We also provide Car Rental without a driver. All prices shown on this website are total prices and you will not be charged any more than the price you see. The cost of our taxi and minibus fares from Malaga airport can be found on our price page. We supply taxis to Marbella, Puerto Banus, Nerja and many other destinations on the Costa Del Sol
Taxi Fares. The cost of a taxi for up to 4 people from the airport into Malaga City Centre which is 19 km away will cost between €28-32 (including all surcharges) depending on your time of travel. The telephone number of the taxi companies that operate from the airport are Radiotaxi: 0034 952 040 804 Unitaxi: 0034 952 333 333. The cost of a taxi for up to 4 people from the airport into Malaga City Centre which is 19 km away will cost between €28-32 (including all surcharges) depending on your time of travel.
We guarantee that our taxi prices are cheaper than any of our competitors for a Malaga Airport Transfer of the same quality and standard of service. Our private airport transfer service from Malaga airport is second to none. You will be met at the airport in Malaga by one of our professional drivers, which means no waiting for a taxi in line. Up to one hour of waiting time is included for transfers from Malaga airport. Book your Malaga airport taxi with us and save time and money. We specialise in private Malaga airport transfers and Malaga tours with professional drivers and luxury vehicles.