Genetic diversity is the total number of genetic characteristics in the genetic makeup of a species. It is distinguished from genetic variability, which describes the tendency of genetic characteristics to vary. Genetic diversity serves as a way for populations to adapt to changing environments. With more variation, it is more likely that some individuals in a population will possess variations of alleles that are suited for the environment. Those individuals are more likely to survive to produce offspring bearing that allele. The interdependence between genetic and species diversity is delicate. Changes in species diversity lead to changes in the environment, leading to adaptation of the remaining species. Changes in genetic diversity, such as in loss of species, leads to a loss of biological diversity.
1 The founder effect is an event that results in populations with low genetic diversity. 2  The founder effect occurs when a population is founded by few individuals, resulting in poor sampling of alleles in a population. 1 Homologous recombination is a significant source of variability. 2  During meiosis in sexual organisms, two homologous chromosomes from the male and female parents cross over one another and exchange genetic material.
There are three primary sources of genetic variation, which we will learn more about: 1  Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  Gene flow is any movement of genes from one population to another and is an important source of genetic variation. 3  Sex can introduce new gene combinations into a population. 1 Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  A single mutation can have a large effect, but in many cases, evolutionary change is based on the accumulation of many mutations. 3
Gamete Fusion. The third way that sexual reproduction provides greater genetic diversity than asexual reproduction is through the process of fertilization, or gamete fusion. Gametes contain only half the amount of DNA of a normal cell, so two gametes must fuse to form a new cell that will develop into a new organism. 
Genetic Diversity. Genetic diversity refers to the variety of hereditary characteristics in a species. The greater the level of genetic diversity, the better the chance a population has to cope with changing environmental conditions and survive over the long term. A larger population will usually exhibit more genetic diversity. Maintaining this balance often requires close monitoring of the size of herds. If a herd is too small, this will inevitably lead to decreased genetic diversity and possible inbreeding. However, it is possible to manage small populations in ways that will minimize inbreeding and the loss of
Whereas inbreeding can lead to a reduction in genetic variation, outbreeding can lead to an increase. Sometimes, there can be random fluctuations in the numbers of alleles in a population. These changes in relative allele frequency, called genetic drift, can either increase or decrease by chance over time. 
Genetic drift is a random process that can lead to large changes in populations over a short period of time. Random drift is caused by recurring small population sizes, severe reductions in population size called bottlenecks and founder events where a new population starts from a small number of individuals. 
Meiosis is the process by which most eukaryotic organisms, those with cells having an organized nucleus, produces sex cells, the male and female gametes. Cells normally have two copies of each chromosome, one donated from each parent. During prophase of meiosis I, the double-chromatid homologous pairs of chromosomes cross over with each other and often exchange chromosome segments. This recombination creates genetic diversity by allowing genes from each parent to intermix, resulting in chromosomes with a different genetic complement.
The base of the genetic variability is genetic variation of different biological systems in space. Genetic variability is a measure of the tendency of individual genotypes in a population to vary from one another, also. Variability is different from genetic diversity, which is the amount of variation seen in a particular population. The variability of a trait describes how much that trait tends to vary in response to environmental and genetic influences. 1 Homologous recombination is a significant source of variability. 2  During meiosis in sexual organisms, two homologous chromosomes from the male and female parents cross over one another and exchange genetic material.