Your Purpose In Life. Finding a purpose in life and knowing your purpose in life is important to each of us. The following articles will help you to understand your purpose in life. 1  Your Purpose In Life. 2  What is My Purpose in Life. Meaning of Baby Names. One of the most important tasks of parenting is naming your child. This is because when you choose a name for your baby, you are creating the baby's future. The meaning of baby names are the single most important influence on the development of your baby's personality.
Shivani is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Shi-va-ni. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3625 in baby name popularity for girls with 43 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Shivani Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Shivani has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Shivani to other names. Variants of the name Shivani include Shavana.
Shivani in Nautical Flags. Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names. View the Shivani Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Shivani has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Shivani to other names. Variants of the name Shivani include Shavana.
Meaning of Indian name: Shivani. Meaning of the name Shivani is 'Goddess Parvathi'. Shivani is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Shivani is '1'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Shivani'. 
Shivani is another name for the goddess Parvati, or Lord Shiva's consort. Shiva. Shiva, commonly termed as 'the destroyer', is the energetic force that gets rid of the old to make way for the new. RE: What is the meaning of the Hindu name SHIVANI? I think it&#39;s a Sanskrit name. Beautiful name, isn&#39;t it? But some guy told me it means &quot;someone who dislike others for their beliefs&quot; I hope he was only joking, because I don&#39;t get how someone with such pretty name actually mean to be that?
The baby girl name Shivani comes from the Indian word which means, Goddess Parvati; Wife of Lord Shiva.. Hindi word which means, goddes parvati.. Sanskrit word which means, matchless consort of Lord Shiva.. Sanskrit word which means, FEMINE ASPECT OF SHIVA.ALSO PARABRAHMA.. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Shivani is the feminine form of the name Shiva. Shiva means He who is Kind.. Siva is thought of as the god of time and space and so is master of life, death, and transformation. philosophyangel · 2 years ago. RE: What is the meaning of the Hindu name SHIVANI? I think it&#39;s a Sanskrit name. Beautiful name, isn&#39;t it? But some guy told me it means &quot;someone who dislike others for their beliefs&quot; I hope he was only joking, because I don&#39;t get how someone with such pretty name actually mean to be that?
You are spiritually intense and can sting or charm. Your name brings love and new starts into life and attracts money. In business, you are the creator and promoter of original ideas and usually enjoy considerable financial success.You are intuitive and might be interested in the arts, drama or science.
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. 