Report Abuse. It all depends on how far back the refund is from and how much it is for. Usually it can take a few months but could take a lot longer. If it is a small amount then they usually just adjust your tax code and give it back to you that way. I have asked for a tax refund almost 3 months ago. HM Revenue & Customs sent me a form to fill in (which I did and returned quickly) and 2 letters asking for more information and documents (I also replied promptly with all the requested information even though I had already given it to them). I am now waiting.
If so you would need to contact your local tax office. If you used our tax refund service you can contact your tax refund manager on: 0203 151 2829. Reply. says: February 15, 2011 at 1:07 pm. How long does it take to get my mileage expenses back its. Been 4 weeks since i sent it in and still nothing. August 30, 2012 at 3:10 am. I done my expenses tax return back in may 12 and they sent me a letter back saying I had to do a sef cert as my expenses were over the threshold of £2500 as my company didn’t pay expenses for my mileage.
If you file a paper return, the IRS says you should allow about six weeks to receive your refund. If you file Form 8379, Injured Spouse Allocation, it could take up to 14 weeks to process your tax return. 
The length of time it takes for a tax rebate to be paid out is set by the tax office How long a tax rebate claim takes usually depends on the type of claim you are making. Ways to speed up your tax rebate claim. Using an agent like Tax Rebate Services usually helps speed up the process. Using Tax Rebate Services means you can benefit from: 1  The knowledge on how to submit what the tax office needs first time, to avoid questions and requests for further information.
The type of claim you make can have an effect on how long it will take because the tax office will need to spend more time on some claims than others. Generally the more complicated the claim the longer it can take to be processed. Ways to speed up your tax rebate claim. Using an agent like Tax Rebate Services usually helps speed up the process. Using Tax Rebate Services means you can benefit from: 1  The knowledge on how to submit what the tax office needs first time, to avoid questions and requests for further information.
The IRS eliminated the refund schedules that were used in prior years for both direct deposit and mailed refunds. The guideline the IRS is using in 2015 for filing your 2014 tax return is: Don’t count on getting your refund by a certain date to make major purchases or pay other financial obligations. Even though the IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. 
A tax rebate can be repaid sooner but it can take longer due to reasons out with anyone’s control. The main reasons why a tax rebate claim can take longer than expected are:-. 1  HMRC have delays in dealing with tax rebate claims. Ways to speed up your tax rebate claim. Using an agent like Tax Rebate Services usually helps speed up the process. Using Tax Rebate Services means you can benefit from: 1  The knowledge on how to submit what the tax office needs first time, to avoid questions and requests for further information.
Jan 10, 2015 at 5:00PM. The IRS plans to start processing tax refunds Jan. 20, 2015. If you're expecting a tax refund, every day you wait to file is another day you have to wait to get back money that's rightfully yours. 
Also the time it takes to claim your tax rebate will depend on the backlog of post that your specific tax office is experiencing. During peak periods, like at the end of the tax year your claim may take longer to process. August 30, 2012 at 3:10 am. I done my expenses tax return back in may 12 and they sent me a letter back saying I had to do a sef cert as my expenses were over the threshold of £2500 as my company didn’t pay expenses for my mileage.
Refunds usually take between 30-45 days to process by the Inland Revenue. This 30-45 day timeframe applies only if you include all the correct documents with your claim. If your application is incomplete and the Inland Revenue have to write to you to request more information your claim can be severely delayed. August 30, 2012 at 3:10 am. I done my expenses tax return back in may 12 and they sent me a letter back saying I had to do a sef cert as my expenses were over the threshold of £2500 as my company didn’t pay expenses for my mileage.