Paracetamol relieves pain. It also reduces fever. You can take a dose of paracetamol every 4-6 hours if needed, but do not take more than four doses in any 24-hour period. Do not take with anything else which contains paracetamol. Talk to a doctor straightaway if you take too much paracetamol, even if you feel well.
Paracetamol (also known as acetaminophen) is a well-known medicine that’s commonly used to relieve pain and bring down fever. Paracetamol is considered by The World Health Organization to be an essential medicine in a basic health system.
While generally safe for use at recommended doses, acute overdoses of paracetamol can cause potentially fatal kidney, brain and liver damage and, in rare individuals, a normal dose can do the same. The risk may be heightened by chronic alcohol abuse.
At over-the-counter doses, paracetamol is commonly used to provide temporary relief of pain and discomfort associated with: 1  Headaches (e.g. migraines, tension headaches). 2  Muscle pain (e.g. strains and sprains, sport injuries).
Paracetamol is a painkilling (analgesic) medicine available over-the-counter without a prescription. Paracetamol can be used to 1  : ease mild to moderate pain – for example, headaches, sprains, or toothache. 2  control a fever (high temperature, also known as pyrexia) – for example, when someone has the flu (influenza).
Babies and children can be given paracetamol to treat fever or pain if they are over two months old. For example, one dose of paracetamol may be given to babies who are two or three months old if they have a high temperature following vaccinations. This dose may be repeated once after six hours.
Paracetamol, also known as acetaminophen or APAP, is a widely used over-the-counter pain medication and medication to reduce fever.
Paracetamol is a different type of type of pain reliever from non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and aspirin. Paracetamol is thought to act mainly centrally, while ibuprofen, aspirin and other NSAIDs mainly act at the site of pain.
Paracetamol should be used with caution by those with liver problems, kidney problems, or alcohol dependence. Read more about special considerations for paracetamol. Side effects are rare but can include a rash or swelling. Read more about side effects of