Asteroids can reach as large as Ceres, which is 940 km (about 583 miles) across. On the other hand, one of the smallest, discovered in 1991 and named 1991 BA, is only about 20 feet (6 meters) across. Nearly all asteroids are irregularly shaped, although a few are nearly spherical, such as Ceres. They are often pitted or cratered — for instance, Vesta has a giant crater some 285 miles (460 km) in diameter. The surfaces of most asteroids are thought to be covered in dust. More than 150 asteroids are also known to have a small companion moon, with some having two moons. Binary or double asteroids also exist, in which two asteroids of roughly equal size orbit each other, and triple asteroid systems are known as well.
There are three different types of asteroids: carbonaceous (stony and darker than coal); silicaceous (bright, stony bodies which contain metal), and metallic (exposed metallic … cores of much larger bodies). Some smaller asteroids may orbit larger asteroids as satellites. Asteroids are different from planets and moons mainly because of their much smaller size, and they differ from comets because they have neither a coma nor a tail.
Most pieces of cometary debris evaporate in the atmosphere, so most meteorites are thought to originate from asteroids. Just as there are different types of asteroids, there are also different types of meteorites. There are actually three main types. These are 1  -. Stony-Just basic stony, rocky material, often with a burned crust on the outside. Asteroids are quite different from comets. Even without looking at them in great detail there are some obvious differences. One thing about asteroids is that they weren't discovered until the invention of the telescope. The first asteroid to be discovered wasn't found until 1801 and was named Ceres.
Planetary Resources is targeting asteroid types that are rich in water (C-type), or rich in precious metals (X-type) as they offer the most value and will positively affect growth of a spec economy. 
The recent impact of an asteroid in Chelyabinsk and the anticipation of seeing comets PANSTARRS and ISON this year have raised interest in the different types of space rock that we can see flying around the Solar System or crashing down to Earth. #Meteorites #Asteroids #Meteors #Meteoroids #Comets #SpaceRocks. 
Answer by Georgia Gilligan. Confidence votes 9. There are three different types of asteroids: carbonaceous (stony and darker than coal); silicaceous (bright, stony bodies which contain metal), and metallic (exposed metallic cores of much larger bodies). 
They are also known as planetoids or minor planets. In total, the mass of all the asteroids is less than that of Earth's moon. But despite their size, asteroids can be dangerous. Many have hit Earth in the past, and more will crash into our planet in the future. More than 150 asteroids are also known to have a small companion moon, with some having two moons. Binary or double asteroids also exist, in which two asteroids of roughly equal size orbit each other, and triple asteroid systems are known as well.
Asteroids are assigned a type based on spectral shape, color, and sometimes albedo. These types are thought to correspond to an asteroid's surface composition. For small bodies that are not internally differentiated, the surface and internal compositions are presumably similar, while large bodies such as 1 Ceres and 4 Vesta are known to have internal structure. A list of types can be found at asteroid spectral classes. 1 X-group of mostly metallic objects including: 2  X-type the most 'standard' of the X group including objects classified by Tholen as M, E, or P-type. 3  Xe, Xc, and Xk transition types between plain X and the appropriately lettered types.
A very dark and non-reflective type of asteroid, gray in color, with a composition believed to be similar to that of carbonaceous chondrites (the C stands for carbonaceous). C-type asteroids are the commonest type known and dominate the outer part of the main asteroid belt. They have an albedo of 0.03 to 0.09 and a reflectance spectrum that is flat at wavelengths longer than 0.4 micron but shows a feature shorter than 0.4 micron thought to be due to water of crystallization. 
The first is by composition. The typical composition of an asteroid depends on its distance from the Sun. At the outer edges of the asteroid belt, that is between three and three and a half times further from the Sun than the Earth, over eighty percent of the asteroids are known as C-type. From piles of 'rubble' to complex mixtures of metals, and carbon and silicon compounds, asteroids are not just dull grey lumps of cratered rock... We find that asteroids are fascinating objects, varying in composition and shape.