The acetic acid concentration typically … ranges from 4 to 8 percent by volume for table vinegar   cider vinegar, otherwise known simply as apple cider vinegar, is made from cider or apple must, and is often sold unfiltered, with a brownish-yellow color; it often contains mother of vinegar. Wine vinegar or Grape vinegar is made from the two-fold fermentation of the juice of grapes.    Malt vinegar, made by the two-fold fermentation of barley malt or other cereals where starch has been converted to maltose.
Apple cider vinegar is fermented juice from crushed apples. Like apple juice, it probably contains some pectin; vitamins B1, B2, and B6; biotin; folic acid; niacin; pantothenic acid; and vitamin C. It also contains small amounts of the minerals sodium, phosphorous, potassium, calcium, iron, and magnesium. In foods, apple cider vinegar is used as a flavoring agent. It can be hard to know what’s in some apple cider vinegar products. Laboratory analysis of commercially available apple cider vinegar tablets shows wide variation in what they contain. Amounts of acetic acid ranged from about 1% to 10.57%.
The reaction between baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) and vinegar (dilute acetic acid) generates carbon dioxide gas, which is used in chemical volcanoes and other projects. 
Although acetic acid is the primary constituent of vinegar aside from water, acetic acid is not vinegar. Vinegar contains many vitamins and other compounds not found in acetic acid such as riboflavin, Vitamin B-1 and mineral salts from the starting material that impart vinegar with its distinct flavor. Wine vinegar or Grape vinegar is made from the two-fold fermentation of the juice of grapes.    Malt vinegar, made by the two-fold fermentation of barley malt or other cereals where starch has been converted to maltose.
Apple Cider Vinegar 500 mg from webber naturals is concentrated into a convenient capsule form. Apple cider vinegar is used for a variety of health conditions including weight loss, digestive difficulties, joint pain, infections, and as a blood thinner. It is rich in vitamins, minerals, and enzymes. Available in two bottle sizes - 90 and 240 capsules.
Baking soda and vinegar react with each other because of an acid-base reaction. Baking soda is a bicarbonate (NaHCO 3) and vinegar is an acetic acid (HCH 3 COO). One of the products this reaction creates is carbon dioxide. You can make your own vinegar and baking soda bottle rocket! Take a piece of paper and put some baking soda on it. Answer 4: They react because baking soda is a base and vinegar is an acid dissolved in water. When you mix an acid and a base in a solvent, which in this case is the water, usually the acid transfers hydrogen to the base to form a new compound.
Apple cider vinegar is made from cider or apple must, and has a brownish-gold color. It is often sold unfiltered and unpasteurized with the mother of vinegar present, as a natural product. It is often diluted with fruit juice or water, or sweetened (usually with honey) for consumption as a health beverage. The term distilled vinegar is something of a misnomer, because it is not produced by distillation but by fermentation of distilled alcohol. The fermentate is diluted to produce a colorless solution of 5% to 8% acetic acid in water, with a pH of about 2.4.
Vinegar is typically 4–18% acetic acid by mass. Vinegar is used directly as a condiment, and in the pickling of vegetables and other foods. Table vinegar tends to be more diluted (4% to 8% acetic acid), while commercial food pickling employs solutions that are more concentrated. The trivial name acetic acid is the most commonly used and preferred IUPAC name. The systematic name ethanoic acid, a valid IUPAC name, is constructed according to the substitutive nomenclature. The name acetic acid derives from acetum, the Latin word for vinegar, and is related to the word acid itself.
Vinegar is a liquid consisting mainly of acetic acid (CH 3 COOH) and water. The acetic acid is produced by the fermentation of ethanol by acetic acid bacteria. Vinegar is now mainly used as a cooking ingredient. Historically, as the most easily available mild acid, it had a great variety of industrial, medical and domestic uses, some of which (such as its use as a general household cleanser) are still promoted today. The term distilled vinegar is something of a misnomer, because it is not produced by distillation but by fermentation of distilled alcohol. The fermentate is diluted to produce a colorless solution of 5% to 8% acetic acid in water, with a pH of about 2.4.