Typically, bots perform tasks that are both simple and structurally repetitive, at a much higher rate than would be possible for a human alone. The largest use of bots is in web spidering, in which an automated script fetches, analyses and files information from web servers at many times the speed of a human. 1 The bot runs through the purchase process and obtains better seats by pulling as many seats back as it can. 2  Bots are often used in Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Games to farm for resources that would otherwise take significant time or effort to obtain; this is a concern for most online in-game economies.
An Internet bot, also known as web robot, WWW robot or simply bot, is a software application that runs automated tasks over the Internet. 1 The bot runs through the purchase process and obtains better seats by pulling as many seats back as it can. 2  Bots are often used in Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Games to farm for resources that would otherwise take significant time or effort to obtain; this is a concern for most online in-game economies.
Bring your Logo explorations off the screen and into the physical world with Bee-Bot and Pro-Bot turtle robots from Terrapin! Bee-Bot and Pro-Bot offer a hands-on experience with Logo programming and encourage algorithmic thinking while students are having fun. Turtle robots work well as an introduction to the Logo screen turtle or as concrete examples of putting programming in action.
What is a Bee-Bot you might ask? It is an award-winning programmable floor robot, the perfect starting point for teaching control, directional language and programming to young children. There are so many cross-curricular resources available as well that could be incorporated in any learning experience. As a part of a 30-minute lesson in an after-school setting, students were able to rotate in small groups between different Bee-Bot themed centers. One center had large pre-made mazes that the students navigated using the Bee-Bots from start to finish. The second center had robots similar to Bee-Bots that looked like cars and had the option to add a marker and trace the path-in this center, the students were able to program their robot to create different shapes. In the third center, the iPads were available for students to explore the Bee-Bot app
A friend gave me a Bee-Bot floor robot on “permanent loan.” She wanted me to figure out some good ways to teach the basics of programming as well as some algebra. I was happy to take on the challenge. Now it was time to move to programming without the bee-bot in hand. I gave them mini-grids along with LEGO men and had them do one step at a time. Turning presented the biggest challenge. They had to figure out that “turn right” means literally rotate right – no forward or side movement at all.
This free app makes use of Bee-Bot’s keypad functionality and enables children to improve their skills in directional language and programming through sequences of forwards, backwards, left and right 90 degree turns. Similar to many game apps, this app has 12 levels encouraging progression. As a part of a 30-minute lesson in an after-school setting, students were able to rotate in small groups between different Bee-Bot themed centers. One center had large pre-made mazes that the students navigated using the Bee-Bots from start to finish. The second center had robots similar to Bee-Bots that looked like cars and had the option to add a marker and trace the path-in this center, the students were able to program their robot to create different shapes. In the third center, the iPads were available for students to explore the Bee-Bot app
bot 1. n. 1. The parasitic larva of a botfly. 2. bots (used with a sing. or pl. verb) A disease of mammals, especially cattle and horses, caused by infestation of the stomach or intestines with botfly larvae. [Middle English, probably of Low German origin .]
Bee-Bots are programmable floor robots in the shape of a bee that have been purpose-built for use with Early Phase and Primary students. 
A bumblebee, also written bumble bee, is a member of the bee genus Bombus, in the family Apidae. The brood parasitic or cuckoo bumblebees have sometimes been classified as a subgenus or genus, Psithyrus, but are now usually treated as members of Bombus. 