I have installed steel support columns on more than one deck. The material is easy to work with and connecting the steel to the underside of the deck is a simple matter. Making the connections to the concrete piers buried in the ground is also an easy task. If you were to build with wood, a structural engineer might specify six inch by six inch or larger wood support columns instead of traditional four by four columns. Switch to steel and I am quite confident a four by four steel column will perform as well or better than a six by six wood column of the same length.
Figure 1 shows a deck using different size and material for the deck support columns. The change in size and material has a negative effect on the appearance of the deck. You have a number of options when it comes to constructing the support columns for your deck. Some are related to the area that you live in. In climates that experience frost in the winter months, the footings must be a minimum of 1 foot below the frost line.
Tall decks typically need larger diameter support columns than decks that are closer to the ground. If you were to build with wood, a structural engineer might specify six inch by six inch or larger wood support columns instead of traditional four by four columns. Switch to steel and I am quite confident a four by four steel column will perform as well or better than a six by six wood column of the same length.
Cedar decks generally last from 15 to 20 years, but they can deteriorate faster, particularly on the ground-floor and in shaded areas that take longer to dry out. The average material cost for cedar is $5 to $15 per square foot, for an estimated cost of $6,400 to $24,000 to replace a 16-by-20-foot deck. When properly maintained, this type of deck should last for decades. The cost for treated lumber ranges from $8 to $20 per square foot, for an estimated total replacement cost of $2,560 to $16,000 for
A concrete deck pier is simply a column of concrete that rises up out of the soil; usually the pier is 6 to 8 inches in diameter. A wooden post is connected to this concrete column. You can buy precast concrete deck piers that do a great job of providing support for deck posts. These piers are wider at the bottom than at the top. The wider bottom helps distribute the weight of the deck on a wider footprint of soil so the pier doesn’t sink into the ground. SOLID BEARING POINT. This is why wooden deck posts must rest on a solid bearing point that won’t sink or lift up because of frost action in the soil. You can support wooden deck posts with deck piers in any number of ways. I’ve used concrete deck piers for many years.
A suspension bridge is a type of bridge in which the deck (the load-bearing portion) is hung below suspension cables on vertical suspenders. The first modern examples of this type of bridge were built in the early 19th century. The suspension cables must be anchored at each end of the bridge, since any load applied to the bridge is transformed into a tension in these main cables. The main cables continue beyond the pillars to deck-level supports, and further continue to connections with anchors in the ground.
They can cost anywhere between $3,900 and $4,500 for a 12-by-18 deck, though you can get individual deck boards for $20 to $50 per square foot. Composite decks may cost less initially, but they have a lot of maintenance over the lifetime of the deck, especially if you install pressure-treated lumber. When properly maintained, this type of deck should last for decades. The cost for treated lumber ranges from $8 to $20 per square foot, for an estimated total replacement cost of $2,560 to $16,000 for a 16-by-20-foot deck.
Order the Material. Measure the plywood bases and order the stones -- allowing from two to three weeks for delivery. The veneer stone used in this project cost approximately $1,000 and regular fieldstone would have cost $1,200 plus shipping. Five-inch Indiana limestone was also ordered to use as capstone to finish off the column bases.
Precast Concrete Deck Pier Advantages. Precast concrete deck piers are a great alternative to using sonotubes. As their name implies, precast concrete deck piers are ready made combination deck footings and deck pillars all in one. The ones I used on one of my deck projects were 54 inches tall. They were placed 48 inches into the ground so that they were below the frost line for my local area. 
Decorative Support Columns. One common complaint about the appearance of tall decks is that the support posts are ugly and visually awkward. Tall decks using pressure treated 4x4’s or 6x6’s can leave the impression that your deck is supported only by thin spindly stilts. Support Bases Deck posts look stronger when they are placed on top of a solid looking base. Some deck builders construct 12” x 12” post bases that raise 2-3’ from the ground to wrap around the base of support posts.