[ 2 syll. sor -(c) ha, so-r- cha ] The baby girl name Sorcha is pronounced as S AH-KHHaa or S AO R-aa-Kaa †. Sorcha is a Gaelic, English, Irish, Manx, and Scottish name of Hebrew and Celtic origin. A form of the name used in other languages is the Irish Soracha. Sorcha is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Among the family of girl names directly related to Sorcha, Sarah was the most frequently used in 2012.
Meaning of the Irish name Sorcha. MEANING: From sorcha meaning “bright, radiant, light.” Popular in the Middle Ages, the name has become popular again in recent years partly due to the success of the Irish actress Sorcha Cusack in Britain. Incidentally, her actor sisters are named Sinead and Niamh. GENDER: Girl | Female. IRISH NAME: Sorcha.
In Ireland, because Sorcha is pronounced sorr-kha, the name has been considered as a Gaelic form of the name Sarah, and in consequence Sorcha has been Anglicised as Sally, Sarah. The name Sarah is a Biblical name, meaning princess; Sally is a pet form of this name. In Scotland, Sorcha has been Anglicised as Clara. This Site Might Help You. RE: How to pronounce the girl name Sorcha? It&#39;s the Irish version for Sara. I have a niece named Sara and even though she&#39;s only two, we&#39;re tied together like a knot. Her three favorite things in the whole world?
Socha is not in fact Irish for Sarah. Sorcha means brightness. Sarah is a Judeo-Christian name with no connection to Sorcha which is an ancient Irish name. In the irish language ch is pronounced like an english k; so it's correctly pronounced is Sor-ka.
Listen and learn how to pronounce Sorcha so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish girl name. MEANING: From sorcha meaning “bright, radiant, light.” Popular in the Middle Ages, the name has become popular again in recent years partly due to the success of the Irish actress Sorcha Cusack in Britain. Incidentally, her actor sisters are named Sinead and Niamh. GENDER: Girl | Female. IRISH NAME: Sorcha.
The variant pronunciation of this name as /ˈsɜrʃə/ is commonly confused with both the masculine Seoirse (. [seóirse] , ˈʃoːɾˠʃə equivalent To) george and the Feminine (. [saoirse] , sˠiːɾˠɕə a modern repurposing of The irish vocabulary word saoirse which means) freedom By english. speakers In Scotland, Sorcha has been Anglicised as Clara, which retains the name's Gaelic meaning: the English Clara is derived from the Latin clarus, meaning bright, famous.
This is my siblings name, however, we pronounce her name: Sorr-kha. -- Anonymous User 3/25/2013. The name Sorcha can be pronounced many ways but one of the ways to pronounce Sorcha is actually SORSHA I know this because Sorcha is my name and I pronounce it SORSHA. So anyone who is saying that SORSHA is the wrong way to pronounce Sorcha is wrong. -- Anonymous User 1/26/2014. Possibly pronounced Sor-sha. Well, my name's Sorcha and I can confirm that there are multiple pronunciations of the name used all the time! All are pretty much acceptable too! I use the version as if phonetically spelt SOR-A-KA, and then I usually use SORKA as a nickname.
In Ireland, the name is Anglicized as Sarah and Sally, and taken as a Gaelic form of Sarah, due to the similarities in pronunciation. In Scotland, it is Anglicized as Clara due to the similarity in meaning. Sorcha is a Gaelic form of the English, French, German, Hebrew, and Scandinavian name Sarah. Sorcha has 12 forms that are used in English and other languages. English forms of Sorcha include Sorchah, Sorchea, Sorcheah, Sorchia, Sorchiah, Sorchiya, Sorchiyah, Sorchya, Sorchyah, and Sorcka. Another English form is the spelling variant Sorka (used in Irish, and Scottish too). A form of the name used in other languages is the Irish Soracha. Sorcha is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Among the family of girl names directly related to Sorcha, Sarah was the most frequently used in 2012.