A kangaroo is a marsupial, native to Australia. Its baby is the size of a jelly bean when it is born, and it grows and develops in its mother's pouch. Kangaroos are known for … their powerful legs, and all members of the kangaroo family share this characteristic of strong hind legs and short forelegs. The female kangaroo has a pouch for the joey (baby). She gives birth to a single undeveloped young which crawls up to the pouch to continue its final stages of development. Kangaroos are well known for their jumping capabilities and use their long, powerful, muscular tails to help balance.
The kangaroo is a marsupial that is indigenous to Australia and and the Indonesian island of New Guinea. Although kangaroos are often seen congregating in groups, kangaroos are generally fairly solitary mammals but kangaroos are also known for being sociable animals when with other kangaroos. Kangaroos are most well known for their ability to jump a phenomenal distance. The kangaroo is the largest of the marsupials, a group an animals that includes koalas and the common brushtail possum. Marsupials are distinguished by the pouch that these animals have on their bellies, in which they carry their young.
In common use the term is used to describe the largest species from this family, especially those of the genus Macropus: the red kangaroo, antilopine kangaroo, eastern grey kangaroo, and western grey kangaroo. Kangaroos are endemic to Australia. The term wallaroos, a portmanteau, refers to species of an intermediate size. There is also the tree-kangaroo, another genus of macropod, which inhabits the tropical rainforests of New Guinea, far northeastern Queensland and some of the islands in the region.
They are marsupials. A kangaroo has a strong back bone and four legs. The hind legs are stronger than the forelegs. Kangaroos are known for their powerful legs, and all members of the kangaroo family share this characteristic of large, strong hind legs with elongated feet, and short forelegs. The female kangaroo has a pouch for the joey (baby). She gives birth to a single undeveloped young which crawls up to the pouch to continue its final stages of development. Kangaroos are well known for their jumping capabilities and use their long, powerful, muscular tails to help balance.
The kangaroo /ˌkaeŋɡəˈruː/ ˌkæŋɡəˈruː is a marsupial from the Family (macropodidae, macropods meaning large). Foot in common use the term is used to describe the largest species from this, family especially those of the Genus: macropus the red, kangaroo antilopine, kangaroo eastern grey, kangaroo and western grey. kangaroo The term wallaroos, a portmanteau, refers to species of an intermediate size. There is also the tree-kangaroo, another genus of macropod, which inhabits the tropical rainforests of New Guinea, far northeastern Queensland and some of the islands in the region.
Characteristics of the Red Kangaroo. The red kangaroo is the largest of the four kangaroo species. It is also the largest of Australia's land animals, the largest of the world's hopping vertebrates, and the largest of the world's marsupials. A marsupial, a taxonomic category within the class of mammalia, is born only partially developed. 1 Coat and Color: The red kangaroo has a thick wool-like coat that is usually reddish for the male and bluish gray for the female, with the underparts and legs lighter in color for both sexes. 2  The animal's colors and shades vary with locale. 3  Senses: The kangaroo has keenly developed senses of smell, vision and hearing.
Physical Characteristics. Males of the largest kangaroo species, the red kangaroo, can be up to 6 feet tall and weigh 200 pounds. In all species, females are smaller than males. Male red kangaroos have a maroon-colored coat; female red kangaroos are bluish-gray, which has earned them the nickname blue flyers.
Kangaroos are known for their powerful legs, and all members of the kangaroo family share this characteristic of large, strong hind legs and short forelegs. The female kangaroo has a pouch for the joey (baby). The hind legs are stronger than the forelegs. Kangaroos are known for their powerful legs, and all me … mbers of the kangaroo family share this characteristic of large, strong hind legs with elongated feet,
Physical Features: The kangaroo has powerful hind legs and large feet, and a large muscular tail to keep it balanced while in motion. It is the only large animal to use hopping as its primary means of locomotion. A male kangaroo can leap to lengths of close to 30 feet and at a height of up to 10 feet. 
They are marsupials. A kangaroo has a strong back bone and four legs. The hind legs are stronger than the forelegs. Kangaroos are known for their powerful legs, and all me … mbers of the kangaroo family share this characteristic of large, strong hind legs with elongated feet, and short forelegs. The female kangaroo has a pouch for the joey (baby).