If the credit card company sides with the customer and you do not have the receipt to validate the purchase, the company can debit your merchant account for a chargeback.
Taxes. The Internal Revenue Service recommends that you keep any documentation of deductions and income for at least three years. Keeping credit card receipts is not mandatory as long as you have other documentation of the sale such as your deposit records from your merchant account or your cash register receipts.
Jupiterimages/Polka Dot/Getty Images. Customers have as long as 18 months to dispute charges on their credit card bill. If you do not keep the credit card receipts from sales transactions, your business could be forced to return the money for the purchase to the customer's credit card company.
Credit card receipts and statements. Length of time to keep, and why: From 45 days to seven years. 1  Keep your original receipts until you get your monthly statement; shred the receipts if the two match up. 2  Keep the statements for seven years if tax-related expenses are documented.
The statute of limitations pertaining to customer initiated chargebacks is 18 months from the time the transaction appears on the statements. So, for chargeback purposes it is important to keep you business credit card receipts for 18 month.
You may know that you need to keep these receipts, but not why or how for long. The answers to these questions are simple, but contain valuable information that all merchants should know and be aware of. Discover why and how long you should keep receipts and then reflect on your own business practices.
This is a very common question most businesses forget to ask once their credit card processing account has been approved and set up. Retaining credit card receipts for too long can become cumbersome and difficult. Retaining credit card receipts for too short a period can expose the business to liability.
Banks usually give customers about 60 days to dispute a charge per the Fair Credit Billing Act. It is a safe bet to keep the credit card receipt for at least three months. If you need the sales receipts specifically for business income tax reporting reasons, keep them on hand for at least six years.