The most common elements, in order from most common to least common, are Carbon, Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen, Phosphorous, and Sulfur. As far as I know, every organic compound … compound contains these elements. Which explains why rotting organic material lets of Hydrocarbons (C and H). All organic compounds contain carbon. In addition they may have hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, halogens, phosphorus etc. 15 people found this useful. Edit.
By definition, organic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds that contain Carbon (C) with exception of carbonates, bicarbonates, metallic cyanides and carbides … . Carbon. + 65 others found this useful. All organic compounds contain carbon. In addition they may have hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, halogens, phosphorus etc. 15 people found this useful. Edit.
All organic compounds contain the element carbon. By definition, organic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds that contain Carbon (C). 26 people found this useful. Edit. The most common elements, in order from most common to least common, are Carbon, Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen, Phosphorous, and Sulfur. As far as I know, every organic compound … compound contains these elements.
The three most common elements found in organic compounds are  carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. Other elements, such as nitrogen,  sulfur and phosphorous are also components of … organic substances. + 22 others found this useful. All organic compounds contain carbon. In addition they may have hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, halogens, phosphorus etc. 15 people found this useful. Edit.
Carbon. By definition, organic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds that contain Carbon (C) with exception of carbonates, bicarbonates, metallic cyanides and carbides. Carbon. The most common elements, in order from most common to least common, are Carbon, Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen, Phosphorous, and Sulfur. As far as I know, every organic compound … compound contains these elements.
Proteins A protein is an organic compound that contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and in some cases sulfur and are made up of small molecules called amino acids. There are 20 different amino acids commonly found in the proteins of living things.  Proteins are organic compounds that consist of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and, in some cases, sulfur. They are made up of repeating units called amino acids. They provide cells with energy, form tissues, speed up chemical reactions throughout the body, and perform many other cellular functions.
The answer is yes and no. Yes, carbon IS found in all organic matter, but NOT in inorganic matter. Although there are many definitions of organic, in the scientific disciplines, the basic definition comes from chemistry. In chemistry, organic means chemical compounds with carbon in them. In a more general sense, organic refers to living things. And this is connected to the idea of organic chemistry being based on carbon compounds. Organic (carbon-based) compounds are found in all living things. This is where the term organic originally came from. If you are thinking that carbon must be very important to life, you are correct.