Directions. Cook the pancetta in a large Dutch oven over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until the fat has rendered and the pancetta is crisp, about 5 minutes. Remove the pancetta to paper towels to drain, reserving the fat in the pot. Add the onion, Italian seasoning, red pepper flakes and a couple pinches of salt to the pot and saute, stirring frequently, until the onion is translucent, 8 to 10 minutes. Add the garlic and saute until fragrant, about 15 second
Heat the tablespoon of olive oil in a large pot. Add the onions, celery and bacon or pancetta, and saute until the vegetables are softened and the onion is translucent, about 7 minutes. Add the pureed beans and the stock. Bring to a simmer. 
1 Stir in tomato sauce, chicken broth, pepper, parsley and basil; simmer for 20 minutes. 2  Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 3  Add ditalini pasta and cook for 8 minutes or until al dente; drain. 4  Add beans to the sauce mixture and simmer for a few minutes. 1 Add garlic and saute briefly. 2  Stir in tomato sauce, chicken broth, pepper, parsley and basil; simmer for 20 minutes. 3  Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 4
Heat a deep pot over medium high heat and add oil and pancetta. Brown the pancetta bits lightly, and add herb stems, bay leaf, chopped vegetables, and garlic. Season vegetables with salt and pepper. Add beans, tomato sauce, water, and stock to pot and raise heat to high. Bring soup to a rapid boil and add pasta. 
In the second verse, there’s a mention of Pasta Fazool, and I’ve always wondered what it is that made the songwriter drool. Getting me to sing requires copious amounts of alcohol though, and the last thing I’m thinking about the next morning is to Google “pasta fazool”, so it’s long remained a mystery. 
Method. 1 Heat the olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Saute the onion, carrot and celery for 2-3 minutes, until its soft and translucent. Add the garlic, chile flakes and Italian seasoning and saute another minute. 2 Add the chicken stock and tomatoes and bring to a boil. Add the pasta and keep the soup at a strong simmer. 3 When the pasta is al dente, add the beans and cook another 2-3 minutes. Turn off the heat and stir in the parsley.
Pasta e fagioli [ˈpasta e ffaˈdʒɔːli] , meaning pasta and beans, is a traditional meatless Italian dish. Pasta fagioli is commonly made using cannellini beans or borlotti beans and some type of small pasta such as elbow macaroni or ditalini. The base is generally olive oil, garlic, minced onion, and spices, along with stewed tomato or tomato paste. Some variations do not include tomatoes at all, and are made from a brot
Heat the oil in a large heavy pot, then cook the onion, carrot, pancetta, and celery until soft. Add the garlic and cook another minute. Pour in the broth, beans and chopped tomatoes, and cook for 15 minutes. Remove a few scoops of the bean mixture and puree or mash, then return to the pot. Add the pasta, chopped parsley and seasonings. Cook until the pasta is cooked al dente. 
In another pot cook pasta in boiling water. When pasta is just under al dente add to saucepan using a slotted spoon. (Some of the starchy water will fill the pasta and help create a tasty thick sauce). Toss the pasta with the beans and sauce and let cook a minute until pasta is al dente. 