Even fruit juices contain calories, but lemon water has zero. Imagine further that you replace the drinks with lemon water every day for months or even a year. This absence of calories you would otherwise take in from other kinds of drinks will go a long way to helping you lose weight.
Starting the day with the juice of a lemon in a glass of warm water will stimulate your digestive system. Water is also crucial to weight loss. Water aids healthy digestion and the elimination of waste, so make sure you drink six to eight glasses a day.
Hot water with lemon in and of itself does not cause any actual weight loss, says Alissa Rumsey, R.D., a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
Weight loss fads sweep across the culture at lightning speed. Many are silly and even dangerous, but every so often a fad appears that actually makes sense. Adding lemon juice to your drinking water is a good idea if you are trying to lose weight. Studies like the one done in 2008 at the Sugiyama Jogakuen University in Japan suggest that the polyphenols in lemons aid in weight loss.
There are no scientific research studies showing that drinking lemon water helps with losing weight compared to regular water. There is also not a clear consensus on how much lemon water is needed for supposed weight loss. Some websites advocate the more lemon water you drink, the more weight you will lose.
Drinking lemon water is regarded by many professional nutritionists as having real and palpable weight-loss powers. Far from a weight loss myth, but, rather, a weight loss reality, drinking lemon water helps to speed up weight loss.
There are many different ways in which you can introduce lemon juice into your body in a way that helps you lose weight. Some people propagate the use of lemon juice with apple cinder vinegar, while some swear by the effectiveness of lemon juice in honey, with warm water, for weight loss.
If you drink lemon water in the morning especially, it will help to activate your body's detoxifying process and also its natural cleansing process. This principle works proportionally, so the more lemon water you drink, the more you ought to speed up weight loss.