A good rule of thumb to remember is that compounds containing two non-metals (on the right side of the periodic table, for the most part) are usually COVALENT in bonding nature, while a compound containing a metal and a non-metal (like all 3 you listed here) are IONIC in bonding nature. Report Abuse. metal to non metal is ionic non metal to non metal is covalent anything on the left side (groups 1a 2a and the transition metals) are metals and the right side (4a 5a 6a 7a) are non metals.
An ionic bond is one in which electrons are gained/lost, ions are formed, and they attract, forming an ionic compound (e.g., HCl, H2SO4,Li2O) A covalent bond is one in which e … lectrons are shared, and depending on the size of the atoms involved, could be polar (H2O) or nonpolar (N2). HCl (Hydrogen Chloride) is a covalent compound and forms a covalent bond. However, if water is added to hydrogen chloride, it forms hydrochloric acid which is an ionic compoun … d that has ionic bonds.
Best Answer: HCl has covalent bonding--it has one covalent bond. This works because hydrogen only needs 2 valence electrons(electrons on outside) for it to be complete. The chlorine atom is also complete because it had 7 valences and needed one, which it received from the hydrogen atom. HCl is definately covalent. HCl is formed by Hydrogen and Chlorine. Elements form bonds to attain stability. Hydrogen has only 1 electron so it cannot give it. Therefore it needs 1 electron to complete its duplet.
A polar bond is a covalent bond in which there is a separation of charge between one end and the other-in other words in which one end is slightly positive and the other slightly negative. Examples include most covalent bonds. The hydrogen-chlorine bond in HCl or the hydrogen-oxygen bonds in water are typical. HCl is definately covalent. HCl is formed by Hydrogen and Chlorine. Elements form bonds to attain stability. Hydrogen has only 1 electron so it cannot give it. Therefore it needs 1 electron to complete its duplet.
AgCl has a similar crystal structure to NaCl. The bonding is usually described as ionic with some covalent contribution. Some estimates of the ionic character are around 85%. … This can be shown by the value of the lattice energy (enthalpy) for AgCl which is greater than woud be expected for a purely ionic bond. No. A bond cannot be both covalent and ionic. A bond can be covalent, ionic or metallic. In covalent bonding electrons are shared, electrons are transferred in ionic bonding a … nd electrons move about in a sea of electrons in metallic bonds.
AgCl has a similar crystal structure to NaCl. The bonding is usually described as ionic with some covalent contribution. Some estimates of the ionic character are around 85%. This can be shown by the value of the lattice energy (enthalpy) for AgCl which is greater than woud be expected for a purely ionic bond. HCl (Hydrogen Chloride) is a covalent compound and forms a covalent bond. However, if water is added to hydrogen chloride, it forms hydrochloric acid which is an ionic compoun … d that has ionic bonds.
Definitely covalent. The electronegativity difference isn't great enough for a bond between Nitrogen and Oxygen to be ionic. In order for a bond to be Ionic, the electronegati … vity difference must be 2.7 or greater. The electronegativity difference of N and O is merely .4. No. A bond cannot be both covalent and ionic. A bond can be covalent, ionic or metallic. In covalent bonding electrons are shared, electrons are transferred in ionic bonding a … nd electrons move about in a sea of electrons in metallic bonds.
So those atoms share electrons to form a covalent bond. A covalent bond, as I said before, is made of two or more shared electrons. But in an ionic bond, Atoms that are covalenty bonded together form a particle that contains the same number of positive and negative charges. The neutral particle formed when atoms form a covalent bond called a molecule. An ionic bond is basically the attraction of a postively charged ion to a negatively charged ion. Because of their opposite attraction, ionic bonds/ ionic compounds are very strong. In this example, the ionic compound sodium chloride (table salt) is formed. This creates the ionic compound called Sodium Chloride. For some atoms, it takes too much energy to completely gain or lose one or more electrons. In these cases,