That a high degree of hardness is not essential, however, to the employment of a mineral as a gem is shown by the extensive use of such substances as pearl, amber, jet, and turquois, for gems. All of these are easily scratched by ordinary objects.
A mineral is a naturally occurring crystalline substance that can  either be classified as a gem or not. A gem on the other hand, is a  valuable piece of cut and polished mi … neral that is often used in  jewelry.
Silicates—including quartz, mica, olivine, and precious minerals such as emeralds—are the most common class of minerals, as well as the major components of most rocks. Oxides, sulfides, sulfates, carbonates, and halides are other major mineral classes.
All gems are minerals, but not all minerals are gems. In order for the mineral to be classified as a gem, the mineral must have very specific qualities. Minerals are judged on … the following: beautydurabilityrarityportability and among other things.. Submitted answer does not answer the question nor is it correct.
No. A gem mineral is a mineral that can be considered a gemstone if  it of a high enough quality. Garnet, for example, is a gem mineral,  but many garnets are not gem-qualit … y.
Large crystals found in geodes and other rocks are relatively rare. Rocks themselves are made of clusters or mixtures of minerals, and minerals and rocks affect landform development and form natural resources such as gold, tin, iron, marble, and granite.
There are hundreds of natural and man-made substances that are considered gems (or gem-like). This course focuses on the natural occurrence of these materials—how they form, and where they are found, and somewhat, how they are made. This chapter is an introduction to gems in relation to rocks and minerals.
Gems like diamonds, emeralds, and rubies are minerals whereas the term precious stone generally applies better to materials that can not be purely defined as crystalline minerals (having a crystalline atomic structure) (see Figure 1-1. Classic gems).
Either, or both. Minerals are usually considered gems if they are valuable, attractive and highly pure. Minerals are considered ores if they are used to extract a substance. F … or example, pure haematite is polished and sold as a gem, while crude haematite is used to extract iron.