1 “‘For I know the plans I have for you,’ declared the Lord, ‘plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future’” (Jeremiah 29:11). 2  The Bible says that God's will is “good, pleasing and perfect” (Romans 12:2). This means Christians must be committed to following God's will daily, whatever the cost. “If anyone would come to me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me” (Luke 9:23). 1  The Bible will help us to know God's will. “ 2 Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light for my path” (Psalm 119:105).
8) Take a look at your circumstances. God often clearly demonstrates His plan for our lives by lining up circumstances in obvious ways. And He also shows us what His will is NOT for us to do in that same way. It is not His will for you to take the job that is not offered to you. God will likely be slow to show you His plan if He knows you will likely not do that plan anyway. Romans 12:1-2. 1 I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service.
So, when you seek to discover God’s will for your life, pay attention to how He has gifted you. His plan for you will always be directly related to the gifts that He has bestowed upon you. The great news is that you will automatically be good at whatever it is that He has called you to do! 6) Listen to God’s Spirit. God will likely be slow to show you His plan if He knows you will likely not do that plan anyway. Romans 12:1-2. 1 I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service.
To reiterate, the steps to know God's will for your life from the Romans 12:1-2 are: surrendering our lives, not conforming to what the world offers; and renewal of our minds so we will be transformed. To renew our minds, we study God's Word to know Him better, to learn His laws and precepts. If the Lord wants you to do a specific work for Him, He will give you a burden for that work. Your heart will keep drawing you to that specific task or work. As the day draws closer for you to accomplish and know God's will for your life, your burden will become heavier to accomplish it.
1 God does have great plans for your life! “‘ 2 For I know the plans I have for you,’ declared the Lord, ‘plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future’” (Jeremiah 29:11). 3  The Bible says that God's will is “good, pleasing and perfect” (Romans 12:2). This means Christians must be committed to following God's will daily, whatever the cost. “If anyone would come to me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me” (Luke 9:23). 1  The Bible will help us to know God's will. “ 2 Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light for my path” (Psalm 119:105).
It is best to ask the Holy Spirit to guide and direct you. Also, another way to know God's will for your life is to listen to that still small voice inside of you. The burden of the call upon your life will outweigh your ambitions which you have established. If the Lord wants you to do a specific work for Him, He will give you a burden for that work. Your heart will keep drawing you to that specific task or work. As the day draws closer for you to accomplish and know God's will for your life, your burden will become heavier to accomplish it.
The following are some principles from God's Word that will help you to discern what God's will is for you. 1  God does have great plans for your life! “‘ 2 For I know the plans I have for you,’ declared the Lord, ‘plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future’” (Jeremiah 29:11). This means Christians must be committed to following God's will daily, whatever the cost. “If anyone would come to me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me” (Luke 9:23). 1  The Bible will help us to know God's will. “ 2 Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light for my path” (Psalm 119:105).
If you are making decisions based primarily on what makes me happy, then you have your priorities backwards and you will stumble at every turn. God first, then you. That's the order laid out by Christ in the paradoxical Matthew 10:39, If your first concern is to look after yourself, you'll never find yourself. 
ANSWER: Romans 12:1-2 tells us the steps of how to know God's will for your life: Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God-this is your spiritual act of worship. If the Lord wants you to do a specific work for Him, He will give you a burden for that work. Your heart will keep drawing you to that specific task or work. As the day draws closer for you to accomplish and know God's will for your life, your burden will become heavier to accomplish it.