If you want to calculate the wavelength of a wave, then all you have to do is plug the wave's speed and wave's frequency into the equation. Plug the quantities from this problem into the equation: Find the wavelength of a wave traveling at 20 m/s at a frequency of 5 Hz. Here's what it would look like: Method 2 of 2: Master Calculating Wavelength. 1. Find the wave's speed if you know its wavelength and frequency. If you know the wavelength and frequency of a wave, all you have to do is plug them into the original formula and manipulate it to solve for the speed.
Theory: Sound is a longitudinal wave that travels at a speed of v = 331m/s at STP conditions. A longitudinal wave is one that oscillates parallel to its propagation direction. The way an induced disturbance travels in a slinky is a longitudinal wave motion. 
The speed of a wave can be calculated by multiplying the frequency by the wavelength. Speed of a wave = Frequency x Wavelength. For example you can calculate the speed of waves on water by measuring the wavelength and the frequency and using the formula to get the speed of water waves. (Or waves on a rope or waves on a spring, etc.). Practice Calculations. 1
In equation form, this is. The faster a sound wave travels, the more distance it will cover in the same period of time. If a sound wave were observed to travel a distance of 700 meters in 2 seconds, then the speed of the wave would be 350 m/s. A slower wave would cover less distance-perhaps 660 meters-in the same time period of 2 seconds and thus have a speed of 330 m/s. Assuming the speed of sound in air is 345 m/s, determine the wavelength of the sound corresponding to the note of middle C. See Answer Answer: 1.35 meters (rounded) Let λ = wavelength. Use v = f • λ where v = 345 m/s and f = 256 Hz. Rearrange the equation to the form of λ = v / f. Substitute and solve.
Calculating Through Frequency and Wavelength. Calculate the wavelength of the wave. The wavelength is the length of one complete wave through a peak or the top of the wave and the trough or the bottom of the wave. The length can take one second to become complete or five seconds to become complete. Calculate the frequency of the wave. The frequency is the number of complete waves or a wave with one peak and one trough that go through a passing point per second. Multiple the frequency to the wavelength to calculate the speed of the wave. 
Calculating the speed of sound! Waves act differently in different mediums. A wave will travel faster in one medium and slower in another medium. For example the average speed of sound in air is 340 m/s but in water almost 5 times, 1498 m/s. Speed of a wave = Frequency x Wavelength. For example you can calculate the speed of waves on water by measuring the wavelength and the frequency and using the formula to get the speed of water waves. (Or waves on a rope or waves on a spring, etc.).
Speed of Sound Calculator. Sound is a vibration that travels through an elastic medium as a wave. The speed describes how far this wave travels in a given amount of time. The speed of sound is dependent on the density of the air and the density of the air is dependent on the temperature of the air.
The speed (or sometimes you might see it called velocity) of a wave, v, is how far the wave travels in a certain time. Wave speed is measured in metres per second (m/s). All the electromagnetic waves travel at 300,000,000 metres per second (3 x 10 8 m/s). 
This is faster than 331 meters per second, which is the speed of sound in air at freezing temperatures. The formula to find the speed of sound in air is as follows: v = 331m/s + 0.6m/s/C * T. v is the speed of sound and T is the temperature of the air. One thing to keep in mind is that this formula finds the average speed of sound for any given temperature. The speed of sound is also affected by other factors such as humidity and air pressure.
The speed of sound is the distance travelled per unit time by a sound wave propagating through an elastic medium. The SI unit of speed is the metre per second (m/s). In dry air at 20 °C, the speed of sound is 343.2 metres per second (1,126 ft/s). This is 1,236 kilometres per hour (768 mph; 667 kn), or a kilometre in 2.914 s or a mile in 4.689 s.