Eucheuma or Guso in the Philippines is a group of red seaweeds /seaplants representing the Tribe Eucheumatoideae used in the production of carrageenan, an important product used in cosmetics, food processing, and industrial uses, as well as a food source for those living in Indonesia and the Philippines. 
Seaweed refers to several species of macroscopic, multicellular, marine algae that live near the seabed (benthic). The term includes some members of the red, brown, and green algae. Seaweeds can also be classified by use (as food, medicine, fertilizer, filtration, industrial, etc.). The study of seaweed is known as phycology. Porphyra is a red alga used in Wales to make laver. Laverbread, made from oats and the laver, is a popular dish there. In northern Belize, edible seaweeds are mixed with milk, nutmeg, cinnamon, and vanilla to make a common beverage affectionately called dulce (or sweet).
Seaweed is the common name for countless species of marine plants and algae that grow in the ocean as well as in rivers, lakes, and other water bodies. Kelp forest in the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary and National Park. 1 For at least 1,500 years, the Japanese have enrobed a mixture of raw fish, sticky rice, and other ingredients in a seaweed called nori. 2  The delectable result is a sushi roll. 3  Many seaweeds contain anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial agents.
Some seaweeds are microscopic, such as the phytoplankton that live suspended in the water column and provide the base for most marine food chains. Some are enormous, like the giant kelp that grow in abundant “forests” and tower like underwater redwoods from their roots at the bottom of the sea. 1 For at least 1,500 years, the Japanese have enrobed a mixture of raw fish, sticky rice, and other ingredients in a seaweed called nori. 2  The delectable result is a sushi roll. 3  Many seaweeds contain anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial agents.
Seaweed form. Until recently seaweeds were described as simple plants that grew in the sea, but scientists now consider that the structure and chemistry of seaweeds is so distinctive that they warrant their own classification. 
The vernacular “seaweed” is a bona-fide misnomer, because a weed is a plant that spreads so profusely it can harm the habitat where it takes hold. (Consider kudzu, the infamous “mile-a-minute vine” that chokes waterways throughout the U.S. Southeast). 1 For at least 1,500 years, the Japanese have enrobed a mixture of raw fish, sticky rice, and other ingredients in a seaweed called nori. 2  The delectable result is a sushi roll. 3  Many seaweeds contain anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial agents.
Seaweed isn't used to describe a certain species-it's a common name for a variety of types of plants and plant-like creatures, from tiny phytoplankton to enormous giant kelp. Some seaweeds are true, flowering plants (an example of these are seagrasses). 'Seaweed' is a general term used to describe plants and algae that grow in waterways such as the ocean, and rivers, lakes and streams. In this slideshow, you can learn basic facts about seaweed, including how it is classified, what it looks like, where it is found and why it is useful. 1 of 8 Show All.
Green seaweeds. Characteristics: Green colour from chlorophyll a and b in the same proportions as the 'higher' plants; beta-carotene (a yellow pigment); and various characteristic xanthophylls (yellowish or brownish pigments). Food reserves are starch, some fats or oils like higher plants.