Infection of S. typhi leads to the development of typhoid, or enteric fever. This disease is characterized by the sudden onset of a sustained and systemic fever, severe headache, nausea, and loss of appetite. Introduction: Worldwide, typhoid fever affects roughly 17 million people annually, causing nearly 600,000 deaths. The causative agent, Salmonella enterica typhi (referred to as Salmonella typhi from now on), is an obligate parasite that has no known natural reservoir outside of humans.
Best Answer: Background info on salmonella bacteria: Salmonella bacteria are the most frequently reported cause of foodborne illness. In order to reduce salmonellosis, a comprehensive farm-to-table approach to food safety is necessary. A. Salmonellosis is an infection caused by the bacteria Salmonella. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), salmonellosis causes an estimated 1.4 million cases of foodborne illness and more than 500 deaths annually in the United States.
Typhoid Fever (Salmonella Typhi) What is typhoid fever? Typhoid fever is a life-threatening illness caused by the bacterium Salmonella Typhi, which is found in the stool of an infected person. Unlike other Salmonella bacteria, S. Typhi is not found in animals. Typhoid fever is extremely rare in the United States and is almost always related to travel to an area of the world where typhoid fever is common, such as Asia, Africa, and Latin America. 
The most severe illness caused by a Salmonella strain is typhoid fever, which is caused by S. typhi. Less severe forms of gastrointestinal illnesses, such as diarrhea, are caused by many other Salmonella strains and are collectively known as salmonellosis. 
These included S. typhi, S. sendai (2 strains), S. paratyphi A (3strains), S. abortus-ovis (2 strains), S. typhi-suis(2strains), andS.fulica. RESULTS Growth rates. The extent to which Salmonella strains grow in 17 hr at 35 C on trypticase soy,nutrient, and brilliant green agar is shown in table 1. 
Salmonella /ˌsaelməˈnɛlə/ ˌsælməˈnɛlə is a genus of-rod (shaped) bacillus bacteria of The enterobacteriaceae. Family there are two species Of, Salmonella salmonella bongori And salmonella. Enterica salmonella enterica is further divided into six subspecies and over 2500. serovars Most cases of invasive nontyphoidal salmonella infection (iNTS) are caused by S Typhimurium or S Enteritidis. A new form of Salmonella Typhimurium (ST313) emerged in the southeast of the African continent 75 years ago, followed by a second wave which came out of central Africa 18 years later.
There are two species of Salmonella, Salmonella bongori and Salmonella enterica. Salmonella enterica is further divided into six subspecies and over 2500 serovars. Salmonellae are found worldwide in both cold-blooded and warm-blooded animals, and in the environment. Most cases of invasive nontyphoidal salmonella infection (iNTS) are caused by S Typhimurium or S Enteritidis. A new form of Salmonella Typhimurium (ST313) emerged in the southeast of the African continent 75 years ago, followed by a second wave which came out of central Africa 18 years later.
Food animals can become infected with Salmonella from feed and from the environment, so that many foods of animal origin, such as meat, poultry, eggs and raw milk can become contaminated. Salmonella may also contaminate fresh produce via contact with infected animals or other environmental sources. A few Salmonella serotypes can grow over a range of pH values from 3.7- 9.5 under otherwise ideal conditions, but the optimum is 6.5 – 7.5.
Typhoid fever is a type of enteric fever along with paratyphoid fever. The cause is the bacterium Salmonella typhi, also known as Salmonella enterica serotype typhi, growing in the intestines and blood. Typhoid is spread by eating or drinking food or water contaminated with the feces of an infected person. Risk factors include poor sanitation and poor hygiene. Typhoid fever, also known simply as typhoid, is a symptomatic bacterial infection due to Salmonella typhi. Symptoms may vary from mild to severe and usually begin six to thirty days after exposure.