There are three NAT ‘types’: open, strict and restricted. Most likely you’ll have ‘open’ or ‘strict’, the latter of which can make it awkward for you to connect to friend’s games, use voice chat or other online functions. Your NAT – or Network Address Translation – is a means through which one IP address (such as your internet connection) can be shared among multiple devices (such as those that connect to your router).
DSL and fiber-optic are two of the fastest Internet options available right now, and both offer a wealth of advantages. But before you trade in your current Internet service for DSL or fiber-optic, let us help you learn more about the pros and cons of both broadband Internet options. However some providers will offer a self-installation option. Unlike DSL which uses your business’ existing phone line, fiber-optic Internet requires that a fiber optic cable be run to your business. As a result, the installation process for FiOS is commonly more intrusive and takes longer than DSL.
Verizon cable wiring is technology that grows with you. Fiber-optic cables have the capability to support increasing amounts of data and bandwidth size. If your family’s Internet or cable needs change, there’s a Verizon Fios plan to accommodate you. 
If you are looking for a home broadband connection many of us across the country now have a choice between ADSL, fibre optic and cable broadband. BT has also started to convert its old copper network to fibre-optic and its super-fast 'Infinity' broadband, offering speeds of either 38Mb or 76Mb. It is being rolling it out at a good rate, with BT aiming for two-thirds of the UK to be covered by 2015.
Fiber Optic and Cable Similarities. Despite the difference in the speed of the connection, fiber optic and cable Internet also have similar features. Both connections are “always on,” meaning you do not have to log on with a password. Instead, you simply open your browser to establish connectivity. Depending upon the type of glass that is used during cable construction, the speed of the connection may fluctuate, but still produces a very fast connection speed. The typical speed for a fiber optic Internet connection will range between 150 Mbps (megabits per second) and 500 Mbps.
There are essentially two main types of fibre broadband-FTTH (Fibre To The Home) and FTTC (Fibre To The Cabinet). FTTH (Fibre To The Home) is the fastest form of fibre broadband available, because the fibre optic cable runs all the way from the exchange into your house. This fully optical connection is also known as FTTP (Fibre To The Premises). 
Through the use of a cable modem you can have a broadband Internet connection that is designed to operate over cable TV lines. Cable Internet works by using TV channel space for data transmission, with certain channels used for downstream transmission, and other channels for upstream transmission. 
Although fiber optic functions through the use of a cable, the contents inside the cable are what differentiate it from cable Internet. Fiber optic consists of glass cables which is the reason it is also referred to as an optical cable. Depending upon the type of glass that is used during cable construction, the speed of the connection may fluctuate, but still produces a very fast connection speed. The typical speed for a fiber optic Internet connection will range between 150 Mbps (megabits per second) and 500 Mbps.
There are different types of fibre optic broadband, and the provider and package you choose determines the type you get. The most common type of fibre broadband, FTTC, is still tied to the phoneline, so you'll still have to pay for line rental, even if you don't use your phone for calls. Fibre optic broadband uses fibre optic cables to transmit data, rather than the copper wires of a telephone network. These are able to carry more data at higher speeds, and are much more efficient at carrying that data. A broadband signal is carried between your home and the local telephone exchange.