► Another important function of cytoplasm is its role in the movement of the internal organelles as well as the cell in whole. While the actin filaments in the ectoplasm facilitate movement of the cell in whole, the inner protein filaments help the organelles and other structures to move inside the cell. The internal organelles of the cell are suspended in the cytoplasm, which is a gelatinous fluid that fills the interior of the cell. Basically, there are two types of cells-eukaryotic and prokaryotic. The main difference between the two is that the latter ones lack nucleus and some other organelles.
Based on their function, cells are categorized into different types of cells, the somatic cells and the reproductive cells. Each cell has a nucleus and a jellylike watery substance that is 80% water that occupies the remaining part of the cell. This is called Cytoplasm. The cytoplasm holds different parts of the cell's organelles together. Cytoplasm was first discovered first in 1835 but the discovery is not credited to a single person as many biologists and researchers have contributed to the knowledge on Cytoplasm.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The cytoplasm consists of all of the contents outside of the nucleus and enclosed within the cell membrane of a cell. This includes the cytosol and in euckaryotic cells, organelles such as mitochondria and ribosomes. 
The cytoplasm is the region that is inclosed within the cell membrane. The cytoplasm contains enzymes that control chemical reactions inside cells. It also is the site where m … ost of the cell's cellular activities take place such as the metabolic pathways. The cytoplasm consists of cytosol and the cellular organelles, except the nucleus. The cytosol is made up of water, salts and organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions.
Best Answer: Answer 1: Cytoplasm-Filling Fluid Cytoplasm is the fluid that fills a cell. Scientists used to call the fluid protoplasm. Early on, they didn't know about the many different types of fluids in the cell. There is special fluid in the mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, and nucleus. The only two 'plasms' left are cytoplasm (the fluid in the cell also called cytosol) and nucleoplasm (the fluid in the nucleus). Each of those fluids has a very different composition. The cell organelles are suspended in the cytosol. The cytoplasm in animal cells is much larger than that found in the plant cell. The fluid of the cytoplasm is a thick soup of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, lipids, nucleotides, and amino acids. Bacterial cytoplasm contains ribonucleic acid (RNA), on which proteins are sythesized.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm.
The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cyt … oplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. The cytoplasm consists of cytosol and the cellular organelles, except the nucleus. The cytosol is made up of water, salts and organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions.
The cytoplasm plays a mechanical role, i.e. (example) to maintain the shape, the consistency of the cell and to provide suspension to the organelles. It is also a storage place for chemical substances indispensable to life. The cytoplasm consists of cytosol and the cellular organelles, except the nucleus. The cytosol is made up of water, salts and organic molecules and many enzymes that catalyze reactions.
Cytoplasm is the fluid that fills cells and serves several important functions. Cytoplasm holds the internal components of cells in place and protects them from damage. Cytoplasm stores molecules used for cellular processes, as well as hosts many of these processes within the cell itself. The cytoplasm also hosts a variety of cellular processes, such as glycolysis, which is the first step in cellular respiration. Cellular respiration is how your body makes energy from food. Cell division also occurs in the cytoplasm as well as the synthesis of polypeptides (the molecules that make up proteins).
Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred. 1 Cytoplasm is the fluid substance that fills the space between the cell membrane and the cellular organelles. 2  Cytoplasm shows differential staining properties, the areas stained with the basic dyes are the basophilic areas of the cytoplasm and is termed as ergatoplasm for this material.