Concept 36 Different genes are active in different kinds of cells. Most living things are composed of different kinds of cells specialized to perform different functions. A liver cell, for example, does not have the same biochemical duties as a nerve cell. 
Report Abuse. As well as what everyone else has mentioned, genes can also control whether you're left or right handed, whether or not you can roll your tongue and all sorts of strange things. I, for example, can make my baby toe move at a strange angle which both my mother and grandfather can do
Only a fraction of the genes in a cell are expressed at any one time. The variety of gene expression profiles characteristic of different cell types arise because these cells have distinct sets of transcription regulators. Some of these regulators work to increase transcription, whereas others prevent or suppress it. Given this statistic, it is not surprising that the primary control point for gene expression is usually at the very beginning of the protein production process — the initiation of transcription. RNA transcription makes an efficient control point because many proteins can be made from a single mRNA molecule.
For eukaryotes, cell-cell differences are determined by expression of different sets of genes. For instance, an undifferentiated fertilized egg looks and acts quite different from a skin cell, a neuron, or a muscle cell because of differences in the genes each cell expresses. 
Genes code for the production for proteins. Some of these are enzymes which control how the cell functions. This slideshow demonstrates how a protein is produced using the genetic code. How a protein is produced using the genetic code. Genes contain bases in groups of three. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  Next. A gene is a section of DNA which controls part of a cell's chemistry-particularly protein production. is a shorter region of DNA that carries the genetic code for a particular characteristic or cell activity. Nucleus, chromosome and gene. DNA molecules contain chemicals called bases.
The nucleus of a cell contains chromosomes, which carry genetic information in a long molecule called DNA. Genes are regions of DNA that carry the code to control a particular cell activity or the production of a particular protein. A gene is a section of DNA which controls part of a cell's chemistry-particularly protein production. is a shorter region of DNA that carries the genetic code for a particular characteristic or cell activity. Nucleus, chromosome and gene. DNA molecules contain chemicals called bases.
. Different genes control the development of different characteristics of an organism. Many genes are needed to carry all the genetic information for a whole organism. Nucleus, chromosome and gene. The number of genes and chromosomes varies from species to species. Chromosomes and genes. Chromosomes, found in the cell nucleus [nucleus: Controls what happens inside the cell. Chromosomes are structures found in the nucleus of most cells. ] , contain many genes. A gene is a section of DNA [DNA: The material inside the nucleus of cells, carrying genetic information. DNA stands for Deoxyribonucleic Acid
Regulation of gene expression includes a wide range of mechanisms that are used by cells to increase or decrease the production of specific gene products (protein or RNA), and is informally termed gene regulation. 