Contact. We'd love to hear from you! Visit the Locations page to get in touch with a business near you. Or if you'd prefer to email us online, please send us a message to visitor@hajoca.com.
Motorcycle helmets are the best and often the last line of defense for any biker. They protect what is truly most important -- your head. All of the biker helmets for sale at LeatherUp are either DOT or SNELL approved (and sometimes both); meaning that when you shop with us, the lid you buy is guaranteed to have passed or exceeded the latest and strictest safety standards for the USA. Full-face helmets are exactly that -- they cover your entire face. Because of this full face styles offer the most amount of protection for your head as humanly possible.
The HJC RPHA 10 helmet is HJC's lead product. The colors are those used by Spanish motorcycle racer Jorge Lorenzo. HJC is a leader in the U.S market and a runner-up in Europe, in terms of market share. It operates four factories in Korea, China and Vietnam. It produced 1.5 million helmets in 2013, with sales of KRW 80 billion. The HJC RPHA 10 helmet series is the company's lead product. The full-face helmet is popular among motorcycle riders for its light weight, aerodynamic design and convenient features.
HJC Helmets has been a staple of the motorcycle world for almost 40 years. The combination of its extensive, specialized manufacturing experience, innovative ideas, and reasonable pricing has resulted in HJC motorcycle helmets' success in worldwide markets. With a wide selection of helmets in the mid-to-high price range, HJC has also expanded consumers’ choices in Motorcycle Helmets.
Department Headquarters is Located in the Richard J. Hughes Justice Complex in Trenton, New Jersey. The Richard J. Hughes Justice Complex has been home to the Department since it was completed in 1982. The building is shared with the New Jersey Judiciary and the Office of the Public Defender.
The HJC RPHA 10 helmet is HJC's lead product. The colors are those used by Spanish motorcycle racer Jorge Lorenzo. (From top) The HJC research institute is in Yongin, Gyeonggi-do (Gyeonggi Province). HJC's U.S. headquarters are in the LA area. HJC's European headquarters are in France. HJC's RPHA 10 model tops a motorcycle helmet test by Motorrad, a German motorcycle magazine. It produced 1.5 million helmets in 2013, with sales of KRW 80 billion. The HJC RPHA 10 helmet series is the company's lead product. The full-face helmet is popular among motorcycle riders for its light weight, aerodynamic design and convenient features.
Please shoot us a line for any reason and we will be happy to do our best to meet your needs or help you get the most from our site. You can contact us either by email support@thehelmetman.com, or via phone. Customer Service & Store Hours: Monday-Friday from 10am-5pm PST. Saturday & Sunday-Closed. 
Our strategic consulting team brings together some of the most innovative thinkers in the nonprofit sector, and our in house production teams of designers, programmers and copywriters can do it all-delivering complete programs to engage your organization's core constituencies and advance your mission and mandate. It's free! Our mission is to provide leadership to nonprofit organizations in using new technologies to market, fundraise, advocate and brand build more effectively.