Bacteria cause disease. Most of these bacteria, like those listed below make their presence felt immediately and may or may not result in death. Some people though, can be infected with a bacterium that normally causes a disease and not show any harmful effects at all, people like this are called carriers. A sad example of this was Typhoid Mary who was identified as a carrier for typhoid fever in 1906.
Also known as Legionellosis, it is a form of pneumonia. Legionellosis is an infection caused by the bacterium Legionella pneumophila. The disease has two distinct forms: Legionnaires' disease, the more severe form of infection which includes pneumonia, and Pontiac fever, a milder illness. 
The most common pathogens are various bacteria and viruses, though a number of other microorganisms, including some kinds of fungi and protozoa, also cause disease. An infectious disease is termed contagious if it is easily transmitted from one person to another. Infectious diseases are the invasion of a host organism by a foreign replicator, generally microorganisms, often called microbes, that are invisible to the naked eye. Microbes that cause illness are also known as pathogens.
Infectious disease requires an agent and a mode of transmission (or vector). A good example is malaria, which is caused by Plasmodial parasites, chiefly Plasmodium falciparum but does not affect humans unless the vector, the Anopheles mosquito, is around to introduce the parasite into the human bloodstream. Infectious diseases are the invasion of a host organism by a foreign replicator, generally microorganisms, often called microbes, that are invisible to the naked eye. Microbes that cause illness are also known as pathogens.
Although most bacteria are harmless or often beneficial, several are pathogenic. One of the bacterial diseases with the highest disease burden is tuberculosis, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which kills about 2 million people a year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. Some pathogenic bacteria cause disease under certain conditions, such entry through the skin via a cut, through sexual activity or an compromised immune function. Streptococcus and Staphylococcus are part of the normal skin microbiota and typically reside on healthy skin or in the nasopharangeal region
Many sexually transmitted diseases are also caused by bacteria. Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease that is easily spread during intercourse and caused by bacteria. Not all bacteria are harmful though. Yeast is an example of bacteria that provides many beneficial affects to everyday life. It contributes to the leavening of bread and the fermentation of products such as cheese, yogurt, and wine. Biotechnology studies and uses bacteria to treat diseases
Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites and can spread between individuals. 1  Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites. 2  Microorganisms that cause disease are collectively called pathogens. 
Tuberculosis is an infectious disease. The bacteria that cause tuberculosis are called mycobacterium tuberculosis. People with TB or tuberculosis cough excessively and suffer a terrible pain in the chest. They cough up blood and display excessive weight loss, fatigue, loss of appetite, and persistent fever. It is an intestinal infection caused by the vibrio cholerae bacteria that contaminates food and water. Cholera is a diarrheal disease that is, spread via consumption of undercooked food, deficiency of hydrochloric acid, and poor hygiene.
An infectious disease or communicable disease is caused by a biological agent such as by a virus, bacterium or parasite. The vector does not have to be biological. Many infectious diseases are transmitted by droplets which enter the airway (e.g. common cold and tuberculosis). Infectious diseases are the invasion of a host organism by a foreign replicator, generally microorganisms, often called microbes, that are invisible to the naked eye. Microbes that cause illness are also known as pathogens.