What is at your core will balance your life. As you are working on re-balancing your life realize that when you know your core values and place that at the center, then you will have greater direction for your life. Below is a link to a page and exercise that will help you realize your core values.
I too am a Libra and can’t tell you how much BALANCE plays a role in my everyday life. In fact, I’m with the belief that without balance there is no need to proceed. So many people worry about putting as much as they can on their plate of life. Focusing on the external “hows” will just spin you in circles. 1) “To me, it means that you have a handle on the the various elements in your life and don’t feel that your heart or mind are being pulled too hard in any direction. ”. Balance means you’re free from having to control or handle anything.
Finding balance is one of life's great goals, but it can be as elusive as it is desirable. Change your approach and its true nature will emerge. When you're balanced, you can feel it. You get the sense that your life is moving along steadily. You take things in stride. You feel healthy and vibrant, challenged by your life, but relaxed enough to enjoy it; protected by the familiar, but excited by the possibilities ahead. 
This may sound counterintuitive. However, by taking the following five simple steps, you will be able to break free of the 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. shackles and have more balance and happiness in your day-to-day life. Creating Balance Step One: Define what a balanced life means to you. 
“Happiness is not a matter of intensity but of balance, order, rhythm and harmony.” ~Thomas Merton. As a Libra, my sign is the scale, which signifies balance. I’m not sure how much my “signage” plays into my desire to live a balanced life, but I do know that the more balanced I feel, the more free I feel. Focusing on the external “hows” will just spin you in circles. 1) “To me, it means that you have a handle on the the various elements in your life and don’t feel that your heart or mind are being pulled too hard in any direction. ”. Balance means you’re free from having to control or handle anything.
© iStockphoto. rhyman007. Use the Wheel of Life to find more balance in your life. When life is busy, or all your energy is focused on a special project, it's all too easy to find yourself off balance, not paying enough attention to important areas of your life. While you need to have drive and focus if you're going to get things done, taking this too far can lead to frustration and intense stress. That's when it's time to take a helicopter view of your life, so that you can bring things back into balance. This is where the Wheel of Life® (or Life Wheel) can help. Commonly used by professional life coaches, it helps you consider each area of your life in turn and assess what's off balanc
When I said that my life is out of balance I meant that I do not have a standard balanced life. I do not divide my life into equal areas and I am not trying to do it all at the same time. Let me tell you what life balance is to me. Life balance is inner peace and happiness. Life balance is the understanding that my life is full and yet I have plenty of room to bring something new into it. Life balance is a happy family that I have and smiles on the faces of my girls. Life balance is taking care of my body without forgetting my soul. Life balance is walking outside and seeing the beauty around me that inspires me day after day
US dollar balance. All Second Life® accounts have both a Linden dollar balance and a US dollar balance. You can see both balances in the Linden Dollar Summary on your Account page at secondlife.com. ﻿. When you have a new Second Life account, your US dollar balance is $0. You can increase your US dollar balance by selling L$ on the LindeX. In rare circumstances, you might also receive a US$ credit from Linden Lab
My answer is always yes, absolutely. Finding balance in life is a realistic and important goal. However, sometimes there are glitches and life feels out of control. When this happens it's usually because you are not getting your needs met or you are not aligned with your values. 