There are many herbal remedies that can help to ease rheumatoid arthritis pain, and many have a long history of use. Long before Bayer synthesized aspirin in the late 1890s, Hippocrates (400 BC) was prescribing treatments using white willow bark to relieve pain and reduce fever.
Certain herbs may have anti-inflammatory properties that can help with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), as well as the ability to reduce pain in all forms of the disease. Still, there is a lack ofscientific evidence supporting such claims.
Many doctors recommend heat and cold treatments to ease rheumatoid arthritis symptoms. Cold curbs joint swelling and inflammation. You can apply an ice pack to the affected joint during an RA flare-up, for instance. You don't want to overdo cold treatments.
1 Best Herbs and Spices for RA Symptoms Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease of inflammation, so adding anti-inflammatory herbs and spices to your diet might sound like a good idea.
Supplements for arthritis: The best way to deal with the pain of rheumatoid arthritis is to do everything in your power to prevent it. A diet high in refined sugars and animal products can lead to even worse inflammation. Chronic Vitamin D deficiency is symptomatic of both obesity and RA.
9 Herbs to Fight Arthritis Pain. Arthritis symptoms can keep you from going about your everyday activities. The pain and swelling (inflammation) may still persist despite medical intervention. In an effort to gain relief and take a “natural” approach, more arthritis patients are seeking herbal remedies than ever before.
That could be important because rheumatoid arthritis is a disease in which the immune system attacks joints, causing pain and swelling. 1  Cinnamon In China and India, cinnamon bark is used to make natural remedies such as medicinal powders and teas.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Herbal Medicine Many herbs possess significant anti-inflammatory action and are appropriate in the treatment of RA. Birch leaf juice acts as a diuretic without irritating the kidney.