The growth rate of a given tree is classified based on the amount of vertical inches the tree grows per year. There are 3 growth rates given for trees: Slow, medium, and fast. A slow growth rate indicates an annual growth of 12 inches or less. A medium growth rate indicates a yearly growth of 13-24 inches per year. Can you imagine in a mere 2 years you can have a 6-8 foot tree! Wow. No wonder Leyland Cypress trees are often used for Christmas tree farms, fast privacy, landscapes, and more. This fast growth is perfect if you want to screen your yard for privacy quickly, or if you want to block the wind by creating a windbreak.
Leyland Cypress Trees, A fast growing privacy trees. Known for its fast growth rate of around 3 feet per year, the Leyland Cypress Tree is perfect for those searching for privacy or nice property line barrier. Leyland Cypress is a hardy plant that grows to be up to 35-40 feet tall. The Leyland Cypress tree is great if you need to create privacy for your home. It's a fast growing tree with a growing around 2-3 feet per year. We recommend planting them in a line with about 5 feet apart from each other to create quick privacy.
Leyland Cypress trees are classified as a “fast growing” tree. Leylandii’s can often grow 3-4 feet per year (vertically). In addition to the vertical growth, Leyland Cypress trees also experience a lot of branching and thickening each year. Three or four inches of growth per year typically means you can expect 3-4 inches per month! That is very fast for a tree, and Leylands have a reputation for very fast growth. Can you imagine in a mere 2 years you can have a 6-8 foot tree! Wow. No wonder Leyland Cypress trees are often used for Christmas tree farms, fast privacy, landscapes, and more. This fast growth is perfect if you want to screen your yard for privacy quickly, or if you want to block the wind by creating a windbreak.
Growth Rate. The Leyland cypress is considered a fast-growing plant, which means it can add 2 feet or more to its height in a single growing season. For the first several years of its life, in fact, it can grow at a rate of 3 to 4 feet per year, though it slows later as it matures. Its full height usually is somewhere around 30 to 50 feet, although it can reach heights of 60 to 70. It is a narrow tree, usually spreading to only 10 or 15 feet.
Suitable for U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 6 through 9, Leyland cypress is a naturally fast grower, growing 20 to 30 feet tall in the first 10 years, and eventually reaching over 50 feet tall and 20 feet wide. 1. Grow Leyland cypress in a full sun site on evenly moist soil. Leyland cypress tolerates most soil types, including clay, loam and sand, acidic and alkaline. It also tolerates drought and brief waterlogging, but grows best where soil moisture levels don't fluctuate widely.
The hybrid Cupressocyparis leylandii, known as the Leyland Cypress, is a fast growing evergreen tree used for screening, hedges, and even Christmas trees. Prized for the ability to grow 3 to 4 feet per year for the first years of life, the Leyland Cypress is capable of heights in the 100-foot range and spreads to 20 feet easily. The concern for this soft needled, blue-green giant is typically how to control, rather than induce, rapid growth
The Leyland cypress, Cupressus × leylandii, often referred to simply as leylandii, is a fast-growing coniferous evergreen tree much used in horticulture, primarily for hedges and screens. 