The hypothalamus sends a message to the pituitary gland which releases ADH. This travels in the blood to your kidneys and affects the tubules so more water is reabsorbed into your blood. As a result you make a smaller volume of more concentrated urine.
An important example of a negative feedback loop is seen in control of thyroid hormone secretion. The thyroid hormones thyroxine and triiodothyronine (T4 and T3) are synthesized and secreted by thyroid glands and affect metabolism throughout the body.
1 Such control is mediated by positive and negative feedback circuits, as described below in more detail. 2  Rate of delivery: An example of this effect is blood flow to a target organ or group of target cells-high blood flow delivers more hormone than low blood flow.
ADH causes the kidneys to become more permeable to water (this is positive feedback, in which a change is amplified), and thus the kidneys are more receptive to absorbing water, and maintaining the optimum water balance. After recognising that the water balance has been normalised, release of ADH is reduced.
The release of ADH into the blood is slowed down or even stopped. Without ADH the kidneys will not save as much water and you produce large volumes of dilute urine. The level of water in the blood falls back to the normal level. This is an example of negative feedback. As the level of water in the blood falls, negative feedback ensures that the amount of ADH rises. As the level of water in the blood rises negative feedback ensures that the amount of ADH falls.
The usefulness of negative feedback inhibition is that it results in hormonal homeostasis , that is the maintenance of hormone levels within a particular appropriate physiological range. Consider a case where one adrenal gland is damaged.
The ADH feedback loop is an example of a negative feedback loop. Negative feedback loops occur when the output of a system acts to oppose the changes to the input of the system.
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH): A relatively small (peptide) molecule that is released by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain after being made nearby (in the hypothalamus). ADH has an antidiuretic action that prevents the production of dilute urine (and so is antidiuretic).
Answers. Best Answer: Negative feedback is when a change in the internal environment triggers a hormonal response, in this case, to counteract that change. ADH, which is antidiuretic hormone, controls water balance by controlling the osmolarity of the blood.