Summary. The esophagus is the tube that carries food, liquids and saliva from your mouth to the stomach. You may not be aware of your esophagus until you swallow something too large, too hot or too cold. You may also become aware of it when something is wrong.
Just before entering the stomach, the esophagus passes through the diaphragm. The upper esophageal sphincter (UES) is a bundle of muscles at the top of the esophagus. The muscles of the UES are under conscious control, used when breathing, eating, belching, and vomiting.
GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease) is stomach acid backing up into the esophagus. The esophagus is the tube that carries food and liquid from your mouth to your stomach. Acids in the stomach help break down and digest the food. Normally, the sphincter muscle keeps stomach acid from flowing back into the esophagus. If this muscle is weakened, GERD may occur.
1 Achalasia. 2  When your lower esophageal muscle (sphincter) doesn't relax properly to let food enter your stomach, it may cause you to bring food back up into your throat. 3  Muscles in the wall of your esophagus may be weak as well, a condition that tends to worsen over time. 4  Diffuse spasm.
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The esophagus is a muscular tube connecting the throat (pharynx) with the stomach. The esophagus is about 8 inches long, and is lined by moist pink tissue called mucosa. The esophagus runs behind the windpipe (trachea) and heart, and in front of the spine.
There is a weakness in the lower part of the esophagus (smooth muscle), and the lower esophageal sphincter does not open and let food pass through. Symptoms usually appear when the patient is a young adult, but may also occur at any age. Experts do not know what causes achalasia.
Esophageal spasms are painful muscle contractions that affect your esophagus, the hollow tube between your throat and your stomach. Esophageal spasms can feel like sudden, severe chest pain that lasts from a few minutes to hours.