In nonvascular plants, like mosses, the sporophyte generation is not the dominant generation. This means that the sporophyte is smaller is size and shorter lived than the gametophyte generation. When you think of a moss, you probably picture a tiny green leafy plant, like the one shown below. A sporophyte is created by sexual reproduction of the gametophyte generation. Gametophytes make haploid unicellular gametes, or sperm and eggs. When a sperm cell fuses with an egg cell this is called fertilization. It creates a unicellular diploid zygote.
Seed Plants. The sporophyte is also the dominant generation in seed plants. Seed plants are vascular plants that produce seeds and include some nonflowering plants (like pine trees) and flowering plants (like oak trees and roses). So when you see any of these plants, you are looking at the sporophyte. A sporophyte is created by sexual reproduction of the gametophyte generation. Gametophytes make haploid unicellular gametes, or sperm and eggs. When a sperm cell fuses with an egg cell this is called fertilization. It creates a unicellular diploid zygote.
Young sporophytes of the common moss Tortula muralis. In mosses, the gametophyte is the dominant generation, while the sporophytes consist of sporangium-bearing stalks growing from the tips of the gametophytes. A sporophyte (/spɔːroʊˌfaɪt/) is the diploid multicellular stage in the life cycle of a plant or alga. In flowering plants the gametophytes are very reduced in size, and are represented by the pollen and the embryo sac. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half.
In flowering plants, the sporophyte comprises the whole multicellular body except the pollen and embryo sac. Bryophytes (mosses, liverworts and hornworts) have a dominant gametophyte phase on which the adult sporophyte is dependent for nutrition. In flowering plants the gametophytes are very reduced in size, and are represented by the pollen and the embryo sac. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half.
Gametophyte size ranges from three cells (in pollen) to several million (in a lower plant such as moss). Alternation of generations occurs in plants, where the sporophyte phase is succeeded by the gametophyte phase. The sporophyte phase produces spores by meiosis within a sporangium. The gametophyte phase produces gametes by mitosis within an antheridium (producing sperm) and/or archegonium (producing eggs). Within the plant kingdom the dominance of phases varies. 
There are special names for each of the plants we’ve been talking about. A sporophyte is a plant that produces spores (asexual reproduction) and a gametophyte is a plant that produces gametes (sexual reproduction). The word gametes refers to sperm and eggs. 
Remember, a sporophyte is a diploid organism. So in order to produce haploid cells with half the number of chromosomes, meiosis must occur. Meiosis is a type of cell division that cuts the number of chromosomes in a cell in half. In sporophytes, it occurs in structures called sporangia (sporangium is singular). A sporophyte is created by sexual reproduction of the gametophyte generation. Gametophytes make haploid unicellular gametes, or sperm and eggs. When a sperm cell fuses with an egg cell this is called fertilization. It creates a unicellular diploid zygote.
Moss plant is a gametophyte. The capsule on the moss is the sporophyte. The gametophyte for a gymnosperm would be the pollen in the cone or break open in immature female cone showing the ovules. The rose gametophyte could be the pollen on the end of your nose after sniffing the odor! Female seed cones are the larger ones with hard scales to protect the ovules/seeds inside. Just photograph both cone types but specify that is is the pollen & the ovule that are the actual gametophytes. Angiosperm example: Sporophyte-rose bush Gametophyte-unsure Pick a flower with both a stamen and a pistil (carpel).
Gametophyte size ranges from three cells (in pollen) to several million (in a lower plant such as moss). Alternation of generations occurs in plants, where the sporophyte phase is succeeded by the gametophyte phase. The sporophyte phase produces spores by meiosis within a sporangium. The gametophyte phase produces gametes by mitosis within an antheridium (producing sperm) and/or archegonium (producing eggs). These different stages of the flowering plant life cycle are shown in Figure 4. 
A sporophyte is a multicellular diploid generation found in plants and algae that undergo alternation of generations. It produces haploid spores that develop into a gametophyte. A sporophyte is created by sexual reproduction of the gametophyte generation. Gametophytes make haploid unicellular gametes, or sperm and eggs. When a sperm cell fuses with an egg cell this is called fertilization. It creates a unicellular diploid zygote.