trigone of bladder a triangular region of the wall of the urinary bladder, an area in which the muscle fibers are closely adherent to the mucosa; its three angles correspond with the orifices of the ureters and urethra. Called also vesical trigone. carotid trigone the triangular area bounded by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the sternocleidomastoid muscle, and the anterior midline of the neck. Called also superior carotid triangle.
1 Its shape, size, position, and relations are dependent with the amount of urine it contains and with the age of the person. 2  The mucous membrane is loosely connected to its muscular wall, except in a triangular region in its base (fundus). 3  This region is known as the trigone of the bladder. And posterior by the rectum. 2  In the female the base of the bladder is separated from the rectum by the cervix and the superior part of the vagina. 3  The bladder neck lies directly on the pelvic fascia, surrounding the short urethra.
Contraction of this muscle expels urine from the bladder. On the superior surface, the outer layer of the bladder wall is parietal peritoneum. In all other regions, the outer layer is fibrous connective tissue. There is a triangular area, called the trigone, formed by three openings in the floor of the urinary bladder.t is located in the pelvic cavity, posterior to the symphysis pubis, and below the parietal peritoneum. The size and shape of the urinary bladder varies with the amount of urine it contains and with pressure it receives from surrounding organs.
Contraction of this muscle expels urine from the bladder. On the superior surface, the outer layer of the bladder wall is parietal peritoneum. In all other regions, the outer layer is fibrous connective tissue. There is a triangular area, called the trigone, formed by three openings in the floor of the urinary bladder. The size and shape of the urinary bladder varies with the amount of urine it contains and with pressure it receives from surrounding organs. The inner lining of the urinary bladder is a mucous membrane of transitional epithelium that is continuous with that in the ureters. When the bladder is empty, the mucosa has numerous folds called rugae. The rugae and transitional epithelium allow the bladder to expand as it fills.
Contraction of this muscle expels urine from the bladder. On the superior surface, the outer layer of the bladder wall is parietal peritoneum. In all other regions, the outer layer is fibrous connective tissue. There is a triangular area, called the trigone, formed by three openings in the floor of the urinary bladder. Two of the openings are from the ureters and form the base of the trigone. It is located in the pelvic cavity, posterior to the symphysis pubis, and below the parietal peritoneum. The size and shape of the urinary bladder varies with the amount of urine it contains and with the pressure it receives from surrounding organs.
The features observable on the inside of the bladder are the ureter orifices, the trigone, and the internal orifice of the urethra. The trigone (also known as the trigonum vesicae and as the trigone vesical)** is a smooth triangular region between the openings of the two ureters and the urethra.he bladder expels urine into a tube called the urethra that leads to the exterior of the body. Elimination of urine occurs by a process called micturition-which is also known as urination.
urinary bladder Darryl 2015-07-06T17:52:29+00:00. The urinary bladder is a temporary storage reservoir for urine. It is located in the pelvic cavity, posterior to the symphysis pubis, and below the parietal peritoneum. The size and shape of the urinary bladder varies with the amount of urine it contains and with pressure it receives from surrounding organs.
Contraction of this muscle expels urine from the bladder. On the superior surface, the outer layer of the bladder wall is parietal peritoneum. In all other regions, the outer layer is fibrous connective tissue. There is a triangular area, called the trigone, formed by three openings in the floor of the urinary bladder.he inner lining of the urinary bladder is a mucous membrane of transitional epithelium that is continuous with that in the ureters. When the bladder is empty, the mucosa has numerous folds called rugae. The rugae and transitional epithelium allow the bladder to expand as it fills.
The trigone is a smooth triangular region of the internal urinary  bladder formed by the two ureteral orifices and the internal  urethral orifice. The area is very sensitive … to expansion and once  stretched to a certain degree, the urinary bladder signals the  brain of its need to empty.