Overactive bladder (OAB) is a common condition that affects millions of Americans. Overactive bladder isn't a disease. It's the name of a group of urinary symptoms. The most common symptom of OAB is a sudden urge to urinate that you can't control. Some people will leak urine when they feel the urge. About 33 million Americans have overactive bladder. As many as 30% of men and 40% of women in the United States live with OAB symptoms. But the real number of people with OAB is most likely much larger.
Overactive bladder syndrome is common. Symptoms include an urgent feeling to go to the toilet, going to the toilet frequently and sometimes leaking urine before you can get to the toilet (urge incontinence). Treatment with bladder training often cures the problem. Common searches for this page include: Bladder infection symptoms, overactive bladder symptoms, overactive bladder treatment, overactive bladder syndrome, what is an overactive bladder, overactive bladder treatment.
There is no pain, burning, or blood in the urine with OAB. Overactive bladder coupled with urinary leakage (inability to suppress the urge to void) is also referred to as urge incontinence and is a form of urinary incontinence (unintentional loss of urine).
Anticholinergic drugs in patients with overactive bladder syndrome. An overactive bladder is a condition in which bladder contracts suddenly without any control, resulting in feeling to urinate and or leakage of urine. This is a common condition in adults and is also called as 'irritable' bladder or detrusor instability, urge or urgency‐frequency syndrome. About Overactive Bladder. Women and men with an overactive bladder (irritable bladder) have an increased urge to urinate that is extremely difficult to control. Needing to go more often can have a major impact on everyday activities.
Overactive bladder (OAB), also known as overactive bladder syndrome, is a condition where there is a frequent feeling of needing to urinate to a degree that it negatively affects a person's life. The frequent need to urinate may occur during the day, at night, or both. If there is loss of bladder control then it is known as urge incontinence. More than 40% of people with overactive bladder have incontinence. While about 40% to 70% of urinary incontinence is due to overactive bladder. It is not life-threatening. Overactive bladder is estimated to occur in 7-27% of men and 9-43% of women. It becomes more common with age. Some studies suggest that the condition is more common in women, especially when associated with loss of bladder control.
Many adults have symptoms of overactive bladder. A person with overactive bladder syndrome feels a very strong urge to pass urine and they may not make it to the toilet before they leak urine. Other common problems are a feeling of needing to urinate often during the day or night, or both. About Overactive Bladder. Women and men with an overactive bladder (irritable bladder) have an increased urge to urinate that is extremely difficult to control. Needing to go more often can have a major impact on everyday activities.
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Overactive bladder is a problem with bladder-storage function that causes a sudden urge to urinate. The urge may be difficult to stop, and overactive bladder may lead to the involuntary loss of urine (incontinence). 
Urinary tract infections can cause a need to urinate as the urinary tract becomes inflamed and uncomfortable. Certain neurological conditions may cause these symptoms. Another cause of overactive bladder is a condition called pollakiuria, or frequent daytime urination syndrome. Children who have pollakiuria urinate frequently. In some cases, they may urinate every five to 10 minutes or urinate between 10 and 30 times a day. 
Overactive bladder (OAB) is a condition that is characterized by sudden, involuntary contraction of the muscle in the wall of the urinary bladder. This results in a sudden and unstoppable need to urinate (urinary urgency caffeinated beverages (coffee, tea), spicy foods, and alcohol can worsen the symptoms. Overactive bladder coupled with urinary leakage (inability to suppress the urge to void) is also referred to as urge incontinence and is a form of urinary incontinence (unintentional loss of urine).