The Parallax effect or parallax scrolling in web design is the technique that features layered images that move around the website in different speeds/perspectives creating a nice and interesting 3D illusion. We gathered some examples of websites using the parallax effect to inspire you. Parallax is a difference in the in the apparent position of an object viewed along different lines of sight. The term derives from the Greek word parallaxis, meaning alteration. In web design, the parallax effect is a relatively new trend.
How to create a simple parallax effect. By Sara Vieira · Web Development · Jul 18, 2013. All over the web, sites are springing up, that use what is known as a parallax scroll. In essence, a parallax scroll is when content scrolls at different speeds, creating a sense of perspective and therefore depth. It’s an appealing effect, and can be applied to as many layers as you like. 
Parallax scrolling is a technique in computer graphics and web design, where background images move by the camera slower than foreground images, creating an illusion of depth in a 2D scene and adding to the immersion. Some parallax scrolling had earlier been used by the 1981 arcade game Jump Bug.
Parallax is a displacement or difference in the apparent position of an object viewed along two different lines of sight, and is measured by the angle or semi-angle of inclination between those two lines. A simplified illustration of the parallax of an object against a distant background due to a perspective shift. When viewed from Viewpoint A, the object appears to be in front of the blue square. When the viewpoint is changed to Viewpoint B, the object appears to have moved in front of the red square.
While these effects can be gimmicky, when employed in the right way they can result in a remarkable and memorable website. One big web design trend of the moment is parallax scrolling, which involves the background moving at a slower rate to the foreground, creating a 3D effect as you scroll down the page. It can sometimes be overwhelming, but when used sparingly it can provide a nice, subtle element of depth. 
Nearby objects have a larger parallax than more distant objects when observed from different positions, so parallax scrolling can be used to determine distances.\nWe have compiled 30 of the best amazing examples of websites that use the scrolling parallax effect. The parallax effect has been around for years in classic video games, but it became a trend in the web design world. This cool effect is now commonly seen as part of the scrolling feature of a web page.
Parallax websites are on the increase, and for good reason – they’re a designers dream. Fabulous graphics which cover your entire screen, tempting your visitors to scroll here, there and everywhere – we love this technology and what it can do for a brand. However, like all good things, there’s always a ‘but’. The pros. Parallax websites can be stunning. The fact that you can present your site visitor with a stunning image and/or background colour and work it across their entire screen creates immediate visual impact. There’s greater scope for the use of movement on the screen, helping you draw your reader’s attention.
The parallax effect in web design is something that has gained popularity over the past couple of years. When used properly, it can result in a rich and engaging user experience with seamless navigation. When used poorly, it can result in just a page with a lot of elements moving around and a terrible UX. 
Nearby objects have a larger parallax than more distant objects when observed from different positions, so parallax scrolling can be used to determine distances. We have compiled 30 of the best amazing examples of websites that use the scrolling parallax effect. 1  Go to website. The parallax effect has been around for years in classic video games, but it became a trend in the web design world. This cool effect is now commonly seen as part of the scrolling feature of a web page.