AbbreviationAn abbreviation is a way to shorten a word to save space. For example Ave. stands for Avenue and Apt. stands for apartment. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis sho … rt) is a shorter form of a word. More particularly, an abbreviation is a letter or group of letters, taken from a word or words, and employed to represent them for the sake of. For example, the word abbreviation can be abbreviated as abbr. or abbrev.. It's, and this is not an abbreviation, it is a contraction. This is also the contraction for it is. + 20 others found this useful. Victor Berroa. Edit. Share to: Nicole Wilson. 93 Contributions. I work in content at Answers.com. I graduated from UCSD with a degree in Communications.
And now it worked much more evil than before; for some of these pieces were hardly so large as a grain of sand, and they flew about in the wide world, and when they got into people's eyes, there they stayed; and then people saw everything perverted, or only had an eye for that which was evil. 
ibid. and id. The abbreviation ibid. stands for the Latin word ibidem, which means “in the same place.” It is used in endnotes or footnotes when you cite the same source and page number(s) two or more times. If you cite the same source but a different page number, you can use ibid. followed by a comma and the page number(s). The abbreviation i.e. stands for id est, which translates literally as “that is.” Sometimes it might be more useful, however, to translate it as “what that means is” or “that is to say.” This abbreviation is used to clarify the preceding idea by restating it more simply or in different terms.
Yes, pc. in that context is an abbreviation of piece or pieces and it's very common, and perfectly correct. Regarding the most correct abbreviation, that's probably something that's up for debate (alternatives could include 200 x and I've also seen 200 per) but 200 pc is as good as any and probably more common, from my own experience at least. share | improve this answer. answered Oct 4 '11 at 10:47. Waggers.
The contraction of you are is you're. An abbreviation is a shortened form often followed by a period. A contraction follows a spoken form of a word pair by omitting one or m … ore letters (e.g. you've, he's, won't). + 14 others found this useful. It's, and this is not an abbreviation, it is a contraction. This is also the contraction for it is. + 20 others found this useful. Victor Berroa. Edit. Share to: Nicole Wilson. 93 Contributions. I work in content at Answers.com. I graduated from UCSD with a degree in Communications.
The abbreviation cf. stands for the Latin word confer which means “compare.” It is primarily used in endnotes or footnotes to point the reader to works that offer an argument which contradicts or is otherwise different from the author’s argument. The abbreviation i.e. stands for id est, which translates literally as “that is.” Sometimes it might be more useful, however, to translate it as “what that means is” or “that is to say.” This abbreviation is used to clarify the preceding idea by restating it more simply or in different terms.
Pieces is the title of a song recorded by Canadian punk rock band Sum 41. It was released in February 2005 as the second single from the album, Chuck. 