The U.S. position at the time was exemplified by South Carolina Sen. Robert V. Hayne, who said that “Our policy with regard to Haiti is plain. We never can acknowledge her independence.” (“Haiti: A Slave Revolution,” p. 104). It was not until 1862, during the Civil War, that the U.S. recognized Haiti. However, France maintained economic dominance over Haiti during the 19th century. France remained the principal neocolonial power in Haiti until 1915, when the U.S. invaded and occupied the country. A guerrilla campaign organized by the Haitian masses was crushed by the U.S. imperialists.
The United States Occupation of Haiti began on July 28, 1915, when 330 US Marines landed at Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on the authority of US President Woodrow Wilson to safeguard the interests of US corporations. The occupation by the United States had several significant effects on Haiti. An early period of unrest culminated in a 1918 rebellion by up to 40,000 former cacos and other disgruntled people.
The magnitude 7.0 quake -- the most powerful to hit Haiti in a century -- struck shortly before 5 p.m. and was centered about 10 miles (15 kilometers) southwest of Port-au-Prince, the U.S. Geological Survey reported. It could be felt strongly in eastern Cuba, more than 200 miles away, witnesses said. 
U.S. embargoes against Haiti -- from 1806 to 2003 Oct. 16, 2003 Greg Dunkel In 1806, Haiti was diplomatically isolated. It had audaciously declared its independence two years before, after crushing the French army sent by Napoleon to re-enslave it. But no country in the world recognized its independence. 
In 1914, the Wilson administration sent U.S. Marines into Haiti. They removed $500,000 from the Haitian National Bank in December of 1914 for safe-keeping in New York, thus giving the United States control of the bank. The U.S. Government also forced the election of a new pro-American President, Philippe Sudre Sudré, dartiguenave by The haitian legislature In august. 1915 the selection of A president that did not represent the choice of The haitian populace increased unrest In. haiti
After Haiti gained its independence from France in 1804, through slave rebellion, the pro-slavery south worried this event could influence slaves in the US, and America refused to recognize Haiti's independence until 1862. U.S Ambassador to Haiti Kenneth H. Merten issued a disaster declaration and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) became the lead agency for the U.S. government’s response to the disaster.
The quake centered 15 miles southwest of Port-au-Prince and caused catastrophic damage. U.S Ambassador to Haiti Kenneth H. Merten issued a disaster declaration and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) became the lead agency for the U.S. government’s response to the disaster. USAID authorized $50,000 for the initial implementation of an emergency response program
(January 2010). Haiti – United States relations are bilateral relations between Haiti and the United States. According to the 2012 U.S. Global Leadership Report, 79% of Haitians approve of U.S. leadership, with 18% disapproving and 3% uncertain, the highest rating for any surveyed country in the Americas. U.S Ambassador to Haiti Kenneth H. Merten issued a disaster declaration and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) became the lead agency for the U.S. government’s response to the disaster.
Duvalier was flown to life on the French Riviera by the U.S. Air Force. The U.S., fully aware of Aristide's peril, did nothing to protect him. Within a year, Marc Bazin was Haiti's de facto prime minister. And that is about how long he lasted. 
Note from Bob Corbett: The United States finally recognized the independence in 1862. Below is a rather extraordinary piece, informed and persuasive, arguing for recognition. This piece was published in 1823, a full 39 years before recognition. Also, along the way the author says some wonderful things about Haiti. [Corbett notes: The piece below is unsigned. It is impossible to tell from context if it is the Register's editorial position, a staff member, guest author or member of the public in a letter. It is worth noting that this is some 39 years before the United States finally recognized the independence of Haiti.].