Jacob /ja-cob/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced JAY-kub. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jacob is he who supplants. Also possibly from la-aqov (hence Yaakov) meaning to track or follow. Biblical: the son of Isaac and Rebekah and twin brother of Esau. Jacob fathered 12 sons and a daughter, who became the ancestors of the nation of Israel, the name Jacob himself received after wrestling with an angel
Biblical Meaning: The name Jacob is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Jacob is: That supplants, undermines, the heel. American Meaning: The name Jacob is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jacob is: That supplants, undermines, the heel. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jacob is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jacob is: He grasps the heel. Supplanter. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Jacob. Jacob is a Latin derivation of the Hebrew name Yaakov traditionally believed to be derived from the word akev which literally translates to at the heel. Given Jacob's Biblical story, this etymology makes perfect sense. Incidentally, the name James is an anglicized version of Jacob (from the Latin translation Iacomus). Today Jacob has become the most fashionable name for baby boys in North America, ranked #1 in the United States and Canada.
Jacob is a common male first name and a less well-known surname. From 1999 through 2012, Jacob has been the most popular baby name for boys in the United States. It is a cognate of James. Jacob is derived from Late Latin Iacobus, from Greek ἰάκωβος Iakobos, from Hebrew יַעֲקֹב (Yaʿqob, Yaʿaqov, Yaʿăqōḇ), the name of the Hebrew patriarch, Jacob son of Isaac and Rebecca. In a Christian context, Jacob – James as reduced English form – is the name for several people in the New Testament: (1) apostle James, son of Zebedee, (2) another apostle James, son of Alphaeus, and (3) James the Just, who led the original Messianic Community in Jerusalem.
From the Latin Iacobus, which was from the Greek ιακωβος (Iakobos) , which was from the Hebrew name יַעֲקֹב (Ya'aqov) . In the Old Testament, Jacob (later called Israel) is the son of Isaac and Rebecca and the father of the twelve founders of the twelve tribes of Israel. He was born holding his twin brother Esau 's heel, and his name is explained as meaning holder of the heel or supplanter. Other theories claim that it is in fact derived from a hypothetical name like יַעֲקֹבְאֵל (Ya'aqov'el) meaning may God protect. The English names Jacob and James derive from the same source, with James coming from Latin Iacomus, a later variant of Iacobus.
Origin of the name Jacob: From the Ecclesiastic Late Latin Iacobus, which is from the Greek Iakōbos, a name derived from the Hebrew Yaakov. The name has its root in ya`aqob (seizing by the heel, supplanting). The name is borne in the Bible by the father of twelve sons who became the progenitors of the twelve tribes of Israel. Pet: Jake.