2. Eat or use plain yogurt. Eat yogurt or apply it to the vaginal area. You can also insert yogurt directly into the vagina by using a needle-less syringe or by putting the yogurt in plastic tampon applicators, freezing them, and then inserting them. Follow any instructions accompanying the test. 1  In a pH test, you hold a piece of pH paper against the wall of your vagina for a few seconds. 2  If the test result is above 4, it's best to see your doctor. 3  If the test result is below 4, it is likely (but not definitively) a yeast infection.
1 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE is produced naturally by bacteria in your vagina, and kills yeast. 2  If the bacteria aren't doing enough by themselves, try mixing 1 teaspoon of ordinary 3% hydrogen peroxide from your market or pharmacy with 1 cup of water. 3  Use as a douche once a day until the day after your symptoms disappear. 1 GARLIC contains natural antifungal substances that kill off yeast. 2  It's my favorite home remedy for yeast infections; I always try it first, and it usually does the trick. 3  To try it, find yourself a fresh clove of garlic and carefully peel all the papery skin off it.
Things to consider. The risk of self-treatment is that your symptoms may be caused by a type of vaginal infection other than a yeast infection, such as bacterial vaginosis or a sexually transmitted infection (STI). If you have pelvic pain or fever, get an evaluation by a doctor. Using nonprescription medicine. When using a nonprescription vaginal medicine for a vaginal yeast infection, follow the directions on the package insert, as well as these guidelines: 1  Use pads instead of tampons while you are using nonprescription vaginal medicines. 2  Tampons can absorb the medicine
Leave it in overnight. Yeast is a fungus and garlic is a natural antifungal so it will help get rid of your yeast infection quickly! 4. If you don't feel better after the first night, try pricking the clove with a knife before you insert it. 1 EAT yogurt with active cultures twice a day during this treatment. 2  It will help re-introduce the good bacteria your body needs by internal and external measures. 3  If the infection is particularly bothersome, use more yogurt as it will both cool the burning and apply more of the active cultures to the infection.
Garlic. Plenty of garlic in the diet can cure the infection naturally. Garlic is a natural and effective treatment for this purpose. Alternatively, there are garlic suppositories available over the counter. Do consult your doctor before taking this treatment. Also, avoid this treatment if you are allergic to garlic. Advertisement. The root cause of a yeast infection is a fungus called candida albicans fungus. Also known as yeast, this fungus is present in small amounts with other bacteria in the genital areas, and in warm and moist areas of the body, like the armpits and the mouth. Both, men and women are susceptible to this condition
Home Remedies Image Gallery. Home Remedies Image Gallery. Avoiding yeast infections can be as easy as practicing good hygiene. © iStockphoto.com /archives. Most women are bothered at one time or another by vaginitis -- the itching, burning, pain, and discharge that comes with a vaginal yeast infection. The annoying symptoms can include itching, discharge that has a baked bread odor, and reddening of the labia and, in some cases, the upper thigh. While yeast infections can often be treated successfully at home, it's important to be sure that yeast is really the culprit.
Most women know the burning, itching signs of a yeast infection. The overgrowth of Candida Albicans (the yeast responsible) can go hand in hand with oral contraceptives, antibiotic use, and be problematic for diabetics, pregnant and menopausal women. 
Tips for Self-Care. There are things you can do to prevent yeast infections from returning, and to treat a yeast infection once you have it. Yogurt. Eating yogurt with live cultures of lactobacillus acidophilus -- a natural, friendly bacteria -- may help prevent a yeast infection from recurring. Acidophilus. Taking supplements containing lactobacillus acidophilus may also help prevent yeast infections. Watch what you wear.