It makes the point that logic can restrict creativity and passion. Supertramp keyboard player Roger Hodgson, who wrote this song and sang the lead vocals, said in our 2012 interview: I think it was very relevant when I wrote it, and actually I think it's even more relevant today. The German dance music band Scooter did a techno version of The Logical Song, which was wildly popular across Europe and hit #2 in the UK. It has been certified gold by the BPI, selling over 400,000 copies and was the 15th best selling single of 2002.
The Logical Song is a hit single on Supertramp's 1979 album Breakfast in America and written and sung by band member Roger Hodgson. It is one of the band's most recognized songs. This simple song makes use of keyboards, castanets, and a guitar break with a strong Beatles influence. The song includes a section of Hodgson reeling off three-and four-syllable assonances with a schoolboy's tongue in cheek. Among….
The Logical Song  is a song by the English rock band Supertramp. Composition and lyrics [edit]. The Logical Song was mostly penned by Roger Hodgson; Rick Davies wrote the vocal harmony on the second chorus. The song makes use of keyboards, castanets, and an instrumental section.
The song was a hit on its original release, reaching number 7 in the United Kingdom and number 6 in the United States. The song also spent two weeks at number 1 on the Canadian RPM Singles Chart and was certified Platinum in Canada. It stayed for three months on the Billboard Hot 100 in the summer of 1979. Composition and lyrics [edit]. The Logical Song was mostly penned by Roger Hodgson; Rick Davies wrote the vocal harmony on the second chorus. The song makes use of keyboards, castanets, and an instrumental section.
Like the Lennon/McCartney partnership, most of Supertramp's songs are credited to their lead singers Roger Hodgson and Rick Davies, although in many cases one writer was entirely responsible for the song. The German dance music band Scooter did a techno version of The Logical Song, which was wildly popular across Europe and hit #2 in the UK. It has been certified gold by the BPI, selling over 400,000 copies and was the 15th best selling single of 2002.
The Logical Song was written by Hodgson, but it shares some themes with a song Davies wrote on Supertramp's 1974 album Crime of the Century called School.. Speaking of the connection in 1979 at a time when the songwriters were at odds, Davies said to Melody Maker : 'School' was a device, in some ways. The German dance music band Scooter did a techno version of The Logical Song, which was wildly popular across Europe and hit #2 in the UK. It has been certified gold by the BPI, selling over 400,000 copies and was the 15th best selling single of 2002.
Supertramp performs The Logical Song without lead singer, songwriter Roger Hodgson. The Logical Song was written by Roger Hodgson who won the Ivor Novello Award from the British Academy of Composers and Songwriters for this song. Roger and Rick wrote separately and the songs they sung on the albums were the songs they wrote. Roger Hodgson is also known as the voice of Supertramp and the majority of songs Roger wrote like Dreamer, Breakfast in America, Give a Little Bit, Take the Long Way Home and so many others.. When Roger left the band Rick Davies got the rights to the name Supertramp and Roger Hodgson got his songs.
The Logical Song is Supertramp's biggest chart hit in both the United States and their native United Kingdom and is amongst their most widely recognised radio hits. Roger Hodgson composed the song from an autobiographical point of view, from his experience of being sent away to boarding school for ten years. Composition and lyrics [edit]. The Logical Song was mostly penned by Roger Hodgson; Rick Davies wrote the vocal harmony on the second chorus. The song makes use of keyboards, castanets, and an instrumental section.
Roger Hodgson, co-founder of Supertrmap, wrote and composed this classic, The Logical Song, which is just as relevant today as it was when it was released. Roger wrote many of the band's hits while he was still in his teens, before he even met Rick. When Roger was with Supertramp, he would make a demo of the song and bring it to the band for them to learn their parts.