(Reserve seeds to make Toasted Pumpkin Seeds, if desired.). Cut pumpkin into large pieces and place in a roasting pan. Pour 1/2 cup water into the bottom of the pan and cover with foil. Bake 45 to 60 minutes or until pumpkin is soft and easily pierced with a fork. Let cool until you can comfortably handle it. Scrape the soft pulp from the skin into a food processor or heavy-duty blender.
Bake for 30 minutes. Turn pumpkin pieces over and bake for a further 30 minutes or until pumpkin is browned and tender. 
Step 5 - Cook the pumpkin until soft. Cook for 15 minutes on high, check to see if it is soft, then repeat in smaller increments of time until it is soft enough to scoop the innards out. Normally it takes 20 or 30 minutes in total. Note: You can also cook it on the stovetop; it takes about the same length of time in a steamer.
To begin this process, first cut the pumpkin in half lengthwise, remove all the seeds and stringy fibers, and then place cut-side down on a greased baking sheet. Bake at 350 degrees F (177 degrees C) for approximately 45 minutes to 1 1/4 hours (depending on size) or until easily pierced with a knife. Scoop out the pulp and puree in a food processor until smooth.
1 In a shallow baking dish, place the two halves face down and cover with foil. 2  Bake in a preheated 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) oven for about 1½ hours for a medium-sized sugar pumpkin, or until tender. 3  If you cut it into smaller pieces, it will cook even faster! 1 Cut the pumpkin in half and discard the stem section and stringy pulp. 2  Save the seeds to dry and roast. 3  In a shallow baking dish, place the two halves face down and cover with foil. 4
Method 3: Microwave: Place pumpkin pieces in a glass bowl; cover with microwave-safe plastic wrap. Cook on HIGH until tender, about 15 minutes. Move the pieces around twice during cooking. Cool, then scrape out the tender flesh with a spoon; discard rind. Method 4: Roast Whole: Follow the first two prep steps on page 81 to hollow out the pumpkin. Roast in a preheated 350° oven for 1 to 2 hours or until tender
If not cook for a little longer. Remove the pumpkin pieces from the crock pot and let cool for a few minutes. Then using a spoon, scoop the pumpkin out of the skin. If your pumpkin has cooked long enough it should be very easy to remove. 
Cooking Pumpkin: Methods 1 and 2. 7. Four ways to cook your pumpkin. Method 1: Basic Baked: Place halved pumpkin, cut sides down, in a 350° oven for 1 to 2 hours or until tender. Cool, then scrape out the tender flesh with a spoon; discard rind. Method 2: Boil: Halve and peel pumpkin, then cut the flesh into uniform cubes and boil until tender, 15 to 30 minutes, depending on size of cubes.
1 Bake in a preheated 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) oven for about 1½ hours for a medium-sized sugar pumpkin, or until tender. 2  If you cut it into smaller pieces, it will cook even faster! 1 Cut the pumpkin in half and discard the stem section and stringy pulp. 2  Save the seeds to dry and roast. 3  In a shallow baking dish, place the two halves face down and cover with foil. 4 