Not all Murano glass is from Murano. Some dealers--especially souvenir shops--try to pass off cheap Chinese counterfeits as the real thing. Look for the  Vetro Murano Artistico  trademark decal in the windows of shops and showrooms that sell authentic Murano glass.
Real Murano glass is expertly executed with the highest quality glass and every attention being paid to fine detail. A genuine piece of Murano glass is unique. No two pieces are alike! Each item should appear to be handmade with a slightly uneven texture,and, possibly, tiny bubbles under the surface of the glass.
On the official Murano glass website, further details on the sticker are given: It may be red or blue depending on the type of product, while the “borsella” [the tongs] and the wording “Vetro Artistico® Murano” is printed in gold leaf.
It is very possible to find a reputable Murano Glass company and purchase from them confidently. GlassOfVenice.com is one such place, where passion for Venice, its cultural and historic heritage, and its beautiful Murano Glass is at the heart of everything we do.
Shopping for Murano glass Glass is why most people come to Murano, and there's no shortage of retail outlets (including factory showrooms) on the island. If you're a casual buyer, you won't need a shopping guide: Just look in display windows, browse in shops that look interesting, and buy whatever strikes your fancy.
Amazon.com stocks a fair amount of items listed as Murano glass, but all that glistens is not necessarily made on the island off Venice called Murano, Italy. First off, there are the low prices, then it can be hard to understand whether or not the items really are genuine made in Murano glass.
Murano glass is manufactured in one place and one place only: Murano, Italy! Murano is located less than 2 kilometers north of Venice, Murano is a series of islands linked by bridges in the Venetian Lagoon. Murano’s history as in glassmaking dates back as far back as the late 1200’s.
MADE IN ITALY. Murano glass is manufactured in one place and one place only: Murano, Italy! Murano is located less than 2 kilometers north of Venice, Murano is a series of islands linked by bridges in the Venetian Lagoon. Murano’s history as in glassmaking dates back as far back as the late 1200’s.
Beware of trying to identify Murano glass on the Internet. If you are looking at buying an item, it is better to identify it through a signature of a master glass-maker, a catalog or an authenticity certificate. 3. Look for a signature on the glass itself.