The primary stars in the system, Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B are about 4.37 light-years from Earth. A third star, Proxima Centauri (sometimes called Alpha Centauri C) is gravitationally associated with the former, but is actually slightly closer to Earth at 4.24 light-years away. Ross 248, about 10.32 light-years form Earth, is actually moving so fast that in about 36,000 years it will actually take over the title as the closest star to Earth (besides our Sun). However, it will quickly begin moving away again and will relinquish the title about 9,000 years later.
Hubble image of Proxima Centauri, the closest star to the Sun. NASA. The Sun is the closest star to Earth, about 93 million miles away. The Sun’s nearest neighbor, Alpha Centauri, is actually a triple-star system —three stars bound together by gravity. Alpha Centauri A and B are two bright, closely orbiting stars with a distant, dim companion, Proxima Centauri.
The two main stars are Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B, which form a binary pair. The third star, which may or may not be part of the system, is Proxima Centauri. It is about 4.22 light-years from Earth and is the closest star other than the sun. Alpha Centauri A and B orbit a common center of gravity every 80 years. The average distance between them is about 11 astronomical units (AU) — about the same distance as the sun is to Uranus. These stars are an average of 4.3 light-years from Earth
The star is suspected to be gravitationally bound to the Alpha Centauri (Twin Star) system, which is about 0.21 light years away. In about 26,700 years in the future, Proxima Centauri will come even more closer at just 3.11 light years away from Earth and then move away. 
The closest star to us aside from the sun is Proxima, a small star that is part of the Alpha Centauri star system. On average, Proxima is 4.22 light years away while the star system as a whole is 4.27 light years away. The Sun is technically the closest star to the Earth. Besides that though, the star Alpha Centauri is closest. It is approximately 4.37 light years away The star closest to earth is the sun, averaging 93 million miles over the course of one full year. After the sun, the next nearest star is Proxima Centauri, roughly 270 thousand times farther from us than the sun is. Strictly speaking, the CLOSEST star to the Earth is our own Sun. The next closest after that is Proxima Centauri, a tiny red dwarf 4.2 light years away. Even though it is the … closest star to the Sun, it cannot be seen by the naked eye, because it is too dim!   The sun.
Proxima Centauri has been the nearest star for about 32,000 years, and it will hold this record for another 33,000 years. It will make its closest approach to the Sun in about 26,700 years, getting to within 3.11 light-years of Earth. After 33,000 years from now, the nearest star will be Ross 248. Alpha Centauri A is just a little more massive and brighter than the Sun, and Alpha Centauri B is slightly less massive than the Sun. Then there’s a third member of this system, the faint red dwarf star, Proxima Centauri. Alpha Centaur System. It’s the closest star to our Sun, located just a short 4.24 light-years away. Alpha Centauri is located in the Centaurus constellation, which is only visible in the Southern Hemisphere. Unfortunately, even if you can see the system, you can’t see Proxima Centauri
The nearest stars to Earth are in the Alpha Centauri triple-star system, about 4.37 light-years away. One of these stars, Proxima Centauri, is slightly closer, at 4.24 light-years. Of all the stars closer than 15 light-years, only two are spectral type G, similar to our sun: Alpha Centauri A and Tau Ceti. The majority are M-type red dwarf stars
Proxima is the closest star to Earth. Faint red Proxima Centauri – at only 3,100 K and 500 times less bright than our sun – is nearly a fifth of a light year from Alpha Centauri A and B. This great distance is what calls into question its status as part of a triple star system. Alpha Centauri is part of a double, or triple, star system. The two main components are Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B. The third star, a red dwarf called Proxima Centauri, is thought to be about 4.22 light-years distant and is actually our sun’s closest neighbor among the stars.