1 Vitiligo is a disease in which the pigment cells of the skin, melanocytes, are destroyed in certain areas. 2  Vitiligo results in depigmented, or white, patches of skin in any location on the body. 3  Vitiligo can be focal and localized to one area, or it may affect several different areas on the body. Vitiligo (vit-ill-EYE-go) is a disorder in which white patches of skin appear on different parts of the body. This happens because the cells that make pigment (color) in the skin are destroyed. These cells are called melanocytes (ma-LAN-o-sites)
Causes of Vitiligo. Melanin is the pigment that gives the skin its characteristic color. Vitiligo is caused by a loss of pigment in the skin, due to destruction of pigment-forming cells known as melanocytes. The exact cause of the destruction of these cells is not known. 
Fast Facts: An Easy-to-Read Series of Publications for the Public. Vitiligo (vit-ill-EYE-go) is a disorder in which white patches of skin appear on different parts of the body. This happens because the cells that make pigment (color) in the skin are destroyed. These cells are called melanocytes (ma-LAN-o-sites). 
Vitiligo is a chronic skin condition characterized by portions of the skin losing their pigment. It occurs when skin pigment cells die or are unable to function. Aside from cases of contact with certain chemicals, the cause of vitiligo is unknown. 
Vitiligo is a condition in which you lose the pigment of your skin. Pigment causes skin color and is produced by cells called “melanocytes.” Another word for pigment is “melanin.”. Most people with vitiligo lose pigment in patches of normally pigmented skin, which is replaced by flat white patched with irregular borders. This loss of pigmentation can occur in small patches, on one side of the body or in large areas covering over 50% of the body. The condition is not contagious, does not cause pain, and is not medically dangerous. Vitiligo affects males and females of all races equally. However, the loss of pigment, called depigmentation, is more noticeable in people with dark skin.
Causes of vitiligo. Vitiligo is caused by the lack of a skin pigment called melanin. Melanin, which is produced by skin cells called melanocytes, gives your skin its colour. If you have vitiligo, you do not have enough working melanocytes, so not enough melanin is produced in your skin. 
Vitiligo (vit-ill-EYE-go) is a pigmentation disorder in which melanocytes (the cells that make pigment) in the skin are destroyed. As a result, white patches appear on the skin in different parts of the body. 
Vitiligo is an acquired skin disorder characterized clinically by totally white macules, or spots, and microscopically by the total absence of pigment producing cells in the skin called melanocytes. 
Vitiligo is a medical condition affecting your skin’s color. When you have vitiligo, the cells that produce your skin color (also called pigment) are destroyed, and can no longer produce pigment. As a result, some of your skin loses its color in a process called depigmentation. 