Kudos (from the Ancient Greek: κῦδος) is acclaim or praise for exceptional achievement. Kudos may refer to: 1  Kudos (album) , a 2000 album by Trio Toeykeaet. 2  Töykeät (kudos computer) , game a life simulation game produced By Positech. 3  Games (kudos computer) , program a-vocational counseling computer.  program
Kudo is a mixed Budo sport comprising full contact punches, kicks, throwings, and submission techniques on the ground. One of the purposes of martial arts, especially BUDO (Judo, Karate-do, Kendo, Aikido, “Kudo” and so on) @is to train the mind and body to become strong and utilize that strength for the improvement of our community.
Usage Discussion of KUDO. Some commentators hold that since kudos is a singular word it cannot be used as a plural and that the word kudo is impossible. But kudo does exist; it is simply one of the most recent words created by back-formation from another word misunderstood as a plural. Kudos was introduced into English in the 19th century; it was used in contexts where a reader unfamiliar with Greek could not be sure whether it was singular or plural. By the 1920s it began to appear as a plural, and about 25 years later kudo began to appear.
Kudo is a mixed Budo sport comprising full contact punches, kicks, throwings, and submission techniques on the ground. Kudo has its origins in Kakuto Karate (Combat Karate), but It is not just a mixed fighting with emphasis on competition side. It is a life-long sport, system for youth education, method of self-defence and health maintenance for adults.
First, it should be noted that “kudos” is not the plural form of “kudo”, so a “kudo” was once technically nothing. However, because so many people in the last century, mainly in the United States, have thought kudos was plural, in some dictionaries today “kudo” is considered a valid word meaning the same thing as kudos (yet another word created via back-formation). To answer your question, kudos in English means:
1 The noun kudos was originally a mass noun, but is now sometimes treated as a plural noun, either as a plurale tantum, or as the plural of a new noun kudo, contrary to the original Greek κῦδος ‎(kudos), kûdos which is a singular.  noun 
[Greek. , magical glory .]. Usage Note: Kudos is one of those words like congeries that look like plurals but are etymologically singular. Acknowledging the Greek history of the term requires Kudos is (not are) due her for her brilliant work on the score. But kudos has often been treated as a plural, especially in the popular press, as in She received many kudos for her work. This plural use has given rise to the singular form kudo
Kudos (from the Ancient Greek: κῦδος) is acclaim or praise for exceptional achievement. Kudos may refer to: 1  Kudos (album) , a 2000 album by Trio Toeykeaet. 2  Töykeät (kudos computer) , game a life simulation game produced By Positech.  games Kudos may refer to: 1  Kudos (album) , a 2000 album by Trio Toeykeaet. 2  Töykeät (kudos computer) , game a life simulation game produced By Positech. 3  Games (kudos computer) , program a-vocational counseling computer.  program
Kudo is. Kudo is a mixed Budo sport comprising full contact punches, kicks, throwings, and submission techniques on the ground. Kudo has its origins in Kakuto Karate (Combat Karate), but It is not just a mixed fighting with emphasis on competition side. One of the purposes of martial arts, especially BUDO (Judo, Karate-do, Kendo, Aikido, “Kudo” and so on) @is to train the mind and body to become strong and utilize that strength for the improvement of our community.
5. kudo. A term used by idiots thinking that it is the singulal form of kudos when kudos is accualy the singular form of 'kudos' the plural form of kudos is pronounced 'coo-doze' and the singular form is pronounced 'coo-dose' both are spelled the same. kudos. 1.) this is a term that one uses to acknowledge A Job Well Done. 2.) a type of Bonus Point--as, most notably, used/issued by the Racing Video Game Series, 'Project Gotham Racing'--that someone can earn for doin' somethin' Prop Worthy.