The term, as used to describe color types in Siamese cats, refers to the darker coloration around the cat's face, ears, legs, feet and tail. Seal Point. Seal point is the most popular of the recognized Siamese colors. When you look at photos of Siamese cats, or think about them, the seal point is the one you are most likely seeing or bringing to mind.
Known as Tabby Points in the UK, and Lynx Points in USA, the Lynx Point Siamese or Tabby Point colors came about originally through the mating of a purebred Seal Point Siamese with a domestic tabby cat. As with Torties, Tabby/Lynx Point Siamese can be found in many shades from Seal to Fawn. The red and tortoiseshell colors were introduced into the breed in the 1930s by crossing purebred Siamese with red tabby or tortoiseshell British Shorthair cats carrying orange (O) genes. The Red Point Siamese cat family merits a page of its own, and includes Red, Cream, and Apricot Points.
by Betty White. The Siamese is a cat with point-restricted color on an elegant, refined body. Neither one attribute nor the other is more important. Both type and color are equally necessary for the Siamese to be the epitome of beauty intended by generations of breeders and fanciers of this old and revered breed. Lilac point Siamese are the most delicately colored of the four Siamese colors, with pinkish-gray points on a glacial white body. What the color lacks in vibrant contrast of body to points is more than offset by deep blue eye color.
Many of the features of the different variations of Siamese cats are the same but the colors can vary. When referring to the different colors of Siamese cats this is not a reference to the fur on the main body of the cats, which is always a pale cream or fawn, although it can darken over time on some variations. It actually refers to the colors on the points, which is the areas such as the ears, tails, and paws. Another of the Siamese cat colors is the lilac point, and these cats have cool, frosty grey points, which has earned them an additional name of frosty point cats. The points have a pinkish tinge to them, which gives the overall appearance of frosted lilac.
As a general rule, all Siamese have vivid blue eyes and pale, creamy coats, with darker facial masks, ears, tails, nose leather, paws and paw pads. These darker areas on the body are known as the points. The different kinds of Siamese cats are named for the color of their points. The red and tortoiseshell colors were introduced into the breed in the 1930s by crossing purebred Siamese with red tabby or tortoiseshell British Shorthair cats carrying orange (O) genes. The Red Point Siamese cat family merits a page of its own, and includes Red, Cream, and Apricot Points.
There are probably three distinct types of Siamese cats, although some cat fanciers acknowledge only two. It's important to know that 'type', as used by breeders, refers to a cat's body shape, not its color. So each of the three types outlined here can also be found in every one of the Siamese cat colors.
No, the points are not the tips of the ears. The term, as used to describe color types in Siamese cats, refers to the darker coloration around the cat's face, ears, legs, feet and tail. The mask is his entire face. The rest of your meezer's body, regardless of type, is mostly a solid, lighter shade. Seal Point. Seal point is the most popular of the recognized Siamese colors. When you look at photos of Siamese cats, or think about them, the seal point is the one you are most likely seeing or bringing to mind.
Siamese Cat Colors. -- Siamese Cat Colors --. Siamese cats are beautiful, elegant, sophisticated creatures, and there are a number of different Siamese cat colors to choose from if you are considering getting one of these cats. Another of the Siamese cat colors is the lilac point, and these cats have cool, frosty grey points, which has earned them an additional name of frosty point cats. The points have a pinkish tinge to them, which gives the overall appearance of frosted lilac.
Lilac point Siamese. Another of the Siamese cat colors is the lilac point, and these cats have cool, frosty grey points, which has earned them an additional name of frosty point cats. The points have a pinkish tinge to them, which gives the overall appearance of frosted lilac.
Of course there are many Siamese cat characteristics common to all, and until the 1980s, when attempts were made to classify the different types of Siamese cats, there was really no distinction made in 'type' despite there being a number of different body shapes. It's important to know that 'type', as used by breeders, refers to a cat's body shape, not its color. So each of the three types outlined here can also be found in every one of the Siamese cat colors.