The average cost of a mammogram is approximately $100. Most insurance plans cover the cost of screening mammograms, and many facilities offer low-cost or financial assistance for those who qualify. The National Cancer Institute recommends women 40 years of age receive a screening mammogram every one to two years. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If you are over 40 AND have no insurance AND meet certain income limits, then you might qualify for a free mammogram. Contact your local health dep't for more info on that. In Arkansas a diagnostic mammogram will run you $200-$300. Good luck!
1 For patients not covered by health insurance, the cost of a breast ultrasound varies by provider and region with a national average cost of $360, according to NewChoiceHealth.com. 2  Pueblo Radiology Medical Group Services, in California, charges $350 for a breast ultrasound. 1 For patients covered by health insurance, out-of-pocket costs typically consist of a copay of $10-$50 or more, or coinsurance of 10%-50% or more.
1 Does the center offer low-cost mammograms? 2  If you do not have health insurance, you can try to find a center that offers low-cost or free mammograms. 3  Contact the National Cancer Institute (1-800-4-CANCER) or the American Cancer Society (1-800-ACS-2345) for assistance. 
The only state without a law ensuring that private health plans cover or offer coverage for screening mammograms is Utah. Of the remaining 49 states, only 22 cover mammograms yearly for women 40 and older. The remaining 27 have less generous coverage. As a part of the Affordable Care Act, Medicare covers the full cost of a screening mammogram once every 12 months for all women with Medicare aged 40 and over.
1 For women covered by health insurance, some plans require no out-of-pocket expenses, while others charge a copay, generally between $10 and $35. 2  A clinical breast exam is much less expensive, and usually is included as part of a general or gynecological check-up. Type of Policy: PPO. There was an area of concern on my mammogram from last year, so they did an MRI....my out of pocket was 161 dollars. But on the six month follow up, just a mammogram and one minute of a doctor's time to confirm that NOTHING CHANGED cost me $360 dollars out of pocket.
Since September 2010, the Affordable Care Act has required all new health insurance plans to cover yearly mammography (with no co-payment) for women ages 40 and older. In many parts of the U.S., low-cost or free mammograms are offered through national programs and community organizations. 
1 Many states require health insurance companies to cover regular mammograms, usually after age 40. 2  The National Women's Law Center offers a state-by-state chart. 3  For women covered by health insurance, some plans require no out-of-pocket expenses, while others charge a copay, generally between $10 and $35. Type of Policy: PPO. There was an area of concern on my mammogram from last year, so they did an MRI....my out of pocket was 161 dollars. But on the six month follow up, just a mammogram and one minute of a doctor's time to confirm that NOTHING CHANGED cost me $360 dollars out of pocket.
1 For an uninsured patient, typical full-price cost of a mammogram ranges from $80 to $120 or more, with an average of about $102, according to Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina. 2  Some providers charge more, and some offer an uninsured discount. Type of Policy: PPO. There was an area of concern on my mammogram from last year, so they did an MRI....my out of pocket was 161 dollars. But on the six month follow up, just a mammogram and one minute of a doctor's time to confirm that NOTHING CHANGED cost me $360 dollars out of pocket.