1 Class Date from the base package is the basic class for dealing with dates in daily data. 2  The dates are internally stored as the number of days since 1970-01-01. 3  The chron package provides classes for dates(), hours() and date/time (intra-day) in chron() . 4  There is no support for time zones and daylight savings time. 1 The dates are internally stored as the number of days since 1970-01-01. 2  The chron package provides classes for dates(), hours() and date/time (intra-day) in chron() . 3  There is no support for time zones and daylight savings time. 4  Internally, chron objects are (fractional) days since 1970-01-01
For pure dates, the Date class in the base package represents dates as an integer number of days since 1 January 1970, with negative numbers for earlier dates. 1 The dates are internally stored as the number of days since 1970-01-01. 2  The chron package provides classes for dates(), hours() and date/time (intra-day) in chron() . 3  There is no support for time zones and daylight savings time. 4  Internally, chron objects are (fractional) days since 1970-01-01
The easiest form of data to import into R is a simple text file, and this will often be acceptable for problems of small or medium scale. The primary function to import from a text file is scan, and this underlies most of the more convenient functions discussed in Spreadsheet-like data. It is also worth remembering that R like S comes from the Unix tradition of small re-usable tools, and it can be rewarding to use tools such as awk and perl to manipulate data before import or after export.
MATLAB and Excel Dates. Microsoft® Excel® software can represent dates as character strings or numeric values. For example, in Excel for Windows ® , you can express April 1, 2012 as the character string '04/01/12' or as the numeric value 41000. The best way to represent dates in MATLAB ® is to use datetime values. However, MATLAB functions import dates from Excel files as character strings or numeric values. Additionally, you might want to export text or numeric dates generated by existing code. Use the datetime function to convert date strings and serial date numbers to datetime
A relational DBMS stores data as a database of tables (or relations) which are rather similar to R data frames, in that they are made up of columns or fields of one type (numeric, character, date, currency, …) and rows or records containing the observations for one entity. It is also worth remembering that R like S comes from the Unix tradition of small re-usable tools, and it can be rewarding to use tools such as awk and perl to manipulate data before import or after export.
Date Values. Dates are represented as the number of days since 1970-01-01, with negative values for earlier dates. Sys.Date() returns today's date. date() returns the current date and time. The following symbols can be used with the format() function to print dates. You can use the as.Date() function to convert character data to dates. The format is as.Date(x, format) , where x is the character data and format gives the appropriate format. The default format is yyyy-mm-dd.
Converting dates entered as strings into numeric dates in R is simple for a single string, similarly simple for a vector of strings if the date information is represented consistently, and a little trickier if the date information is not represented consistently. 
I have a problem when I import a csv file with R: example lines to import: I use the statement: when I try to aggregate this data with other ones originated by statistical analysis using cbind, the date is showed as an integer number because it was imported as factor.