Proteins that do not have all 20 amino acids are called incomplete proteins. Protein sources containing all 20 amino acids are referred to as complete proteins. Choosing complete protein sources will ensure you are getting all of the amino acids that your body needs. Some amino acids can be made in the body and are not essential in your diet. 
Because complete proteins contain all essential amino acids, they are often referred to as high-quality proteins and easily utilized by your body. Sources of Complete Protein. Animal sources of protein are complete proteins, and some plant foods contain all essential amino acids. Sources of complete animal proteins include milk, yogurt, cheese, meat, poultry, fish, seafood and eggs. Soy protein is a plant-based source of high-quality, complete protein. Grains that contain all essential amino acids and are complete proteins include quinoa and amaranth, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. 
Eggs and Dairy Products. Eggs and dairy products are also animal-derived complete protein sources that provide all nine essential amino acids. Eggs are protein-rich, but most of the protein is in the egg white. 
Complementary Proteins. Complementary Proteins. Proteins are compounds made up of building blocks called “amino acids.” There are about 20 common amino acids. Nine of them are called “essential” because the body is unable make them, and so they must be supplied by the food you eat.
Main article: Protein (nutrient). A complete protein (or whole protein) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals. 
* Complementary proteins are two or more incomplete protein sources, which together provide adequate amounts of all essential amino acids and adequate total protein. It is true that many vegetable sources of protein are not complete, and need to be complemented by other protein sources. * A complete protein provides all essential amino acids and sufficient total protein. * An incomplete protein is either low in one or more essential amino acids, or low in total protein. There are eight essential amino acids, and several semi-essential amino acids. But I’ll simply it for you.
Many plant proteins are lower in one or more essential amino acids than animal proteins, especially lysine, and to a lesser extent methionine and threonine. Nonetheless, eating a variety of plants can serve as a well-balanced and complete source of amino acids. 
The body uses 20 different amino acids to make its proteins. There are some amino acids that the body cannot make in required amounts. These are called essential, and they must come from the diet. Complete protein foods have all the essential amino acids. In general, animal foods such as meat, poultry, eggs, dairy and fish are complete protein sources. Here is a list of some food pairings that make a complete protein: 1  Legumes with grains, nuts, seeds or dairy. 2  Grains with dairy. 3  Dairy with nuts. 4  Dairy with nuts/seeds and legumes.
Complement Proteins. Complement proteins are two or more incomplete protein sources that together form a complete protein. If a protein is low in a certain amino acid, like lysine, a complement protein is one that provides the missing protein, in this case lysine. Together, these two proteins provide you with all of the essential amino acids that your body needs to function properly. While you probably know that getting the right amount of protein is important, you may not be aware that not all protein sources are created equal. Complement, or complementary, proteins are those that come together to form a high-quality protein source.