A: Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines that affects chemicals in the brain. It is used primarily to treat anxiety disorders and seizures. Clonazepam may also be used to treat restless leg syndrome and social phobias. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.
Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist of all prescription and non-prescription/herbal products you may use, especially of: 1  Other anti-epileptic drugs, tranquillisers or sleeping pills, or other such medicines that act on the brain and nerves. 2  Antivirals (e.g. amprenavir or ritonavir). How often do I take it? 1  Take this medication by mouth, usually three-or four-times daily. 2  Use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. 3  Remember to use it at the same time each day-unless specifically told otherwise by your doctor. 4  It may take some time before the full benefit of this drug takes effect. 5  Certain medical ...
A: Klonopin (clonazepam) is a benzodiazepine that is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. According to the package insert, it has a half-life of 30-40 hours. The half-life represents the time it takes the body to reduce the amount of clonazepam by half. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.
Clonazepam is available as tablets (0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg, 2.0 mg) and orally disintegrating tablets (wafers) (0.25 mg, 0.5 mg), an oral solution (drops), and as a solution for injection or intravenous infusion. In humans, tolerance to the anticonvulsant effects of clonazepam occurs frequently. Chronic use of benzodiazepines can lead to the development of tolerance with a decrease of benzodiazepine binding sites. The degree of tolerance is more pronounced with clonazepam than with chlordiazepoxide.
CLONAZEPAM PRECAUTIONS. Before taking clonazepam, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other benzodiazepines; or if you have any other allergies. This medication should not be used if you have certain medical conditions. How often do I take it? 1  Take this medication by mouth, usually three-or four-times daily. 2  Use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. 3  Remember to use it at the same time each day-unless specifically told otherwise by your doctor. 4  It may take some time before the full benefit of this drug takes effect. 5  Certain medical ...
Clonazepam is the generic form of the brand-name drug Klonopin, prescribed to treat seizures and panic attacks. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.
A: Klonopin (clonazepam) in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam affects chemicals in the brain that can become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Clonazepam is commonly used to treat seizure disorders, panic disorders, and other conditions. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.
Clonazepam, like other benzodiazepines, while being a first-line treatment for acute seizures, is not suitable for the long-term treatment of seizures due to the development of tolerance to the anti-convulsant effects. In humans, tolerance to the anticonvulsant effects of clonazepam occurs frequently. Chronic use of benzodiazepines can lead to the development of tolerance with a decrease of benzodiazepine binding sites. The degree of tolerance is more pronounced with clonazepam than with chlordiazepoxide.
Clonazepam, sold under the brand name Klonopin among others, is a medication used to prevent and treat seizures, panic disorder, and for the movement disorder known as akathisia. It is a tranquilizer known as a benzodiazepine. In humans, tolerance to the anticonvulsant effects of clonazepam occurs frequently. Chronic use of benzodiazepines can lead to the development of tolerance with a decrease of benzodiazepine binding sites. The degree of tolerance is more pronounced with clonazepam than with chlordiazepoxide.
1 It is used to prevent seizures (fits). 2  In general this drug is used to treat epilepsy, including all forms of epileptic disease and seizures in infants, children and adults, and myoclonus (brief, involuntary twitching of a muscle or a group of muscles, associated with a variety of disorders). How often do I take it? 1  Take this medication by mouth, usually three-or four-times daily. 2  Use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. 3  Remember to use it at the same time each day-unless specifically told otherwise by your doctor. 4  It may take some time before the full benefit of this drug takes effect. 5  Certain medical ...