Baldur's Gate was the first game in the Baldur's Gate series. It was immediately followed by the expansion pack Tales of the Sword Coast (1999), then the sequel Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn (2000) and its expansion pack Throne of Bhaal (2001). Baldur's Gate was the first game to use the Infinity Engine for its graphics. Interplay went on to use the engine for other Forgotten Realms-licensed games, including the Icewind Dale series, as well as other licensed D&D campaign worlds, such as Planescape, setting of Planescape: Torment.
The first game in the series, Baldur's Gate, introduces the player character as a powerless orphan raised in the monastery of Candlekeep, south of Baldur's Gate and north of the kingdom of Amn. Overhaul Games would later clarify their Baldur's Gate game to be a separate game from The Black Hound. Game developer Trent Oster would later suggest Thay and Waterdeep as possible suggestions for a setting the game.
Baldur's Gate is a franchise of role-playing video games set in the Forgotten Realms Dungeons & Dragons campaign setting. The game has spawned two series, known as the Bhaalspawn Saga and the Dark Alliance, both taking place mostly within the Western Heartlands, but the Bhaalspawn Saga extend to Amn and Tethyr. Overhaul Games would later clarify their Baldur's Gate game to be a separate game from The Black Hound. Game developer Trent Oster would later suggest Thay and Waterdeep as possible suggestions for a setting the game.
This article is about the first installment of a video game series. For other uses, see Baldur's Gate (disambiguation) . Baldur's Gate is a fantasy role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published in 1998 by Interplay Entertainment. Baldur's Gate was the first game to use the Infinity Engine for its graphics. Interplay went on to use the engine for other Forgotten Realms-licensed games, including the Icewind Dale series, as well as other licensed D&D campaign worlds, such as Planescape, setting of Planescape: Torment.
Baldur’s Gate 1 is a strategy game based on fantasy world. It was developed under the banner of BioWare. It was released in 1998 and was published by Interplay Entertainment. It was the first game in its series. ascension to the throne is another fantasy game that you can download. Following are the main features of Baldur’s Gate that you will be able to experience after the first install on your Operating System. 1  Excellent role playing game. 2  Strategically elements are very well added. 3  Environment and surroundings are very well built. 4  Graphically a good game. 5  Audio effects are fine also.
Baldur’s Gate II Shadows of Amn is a role playing game. It was developed under the banner of BioWare. And it was published by Black Isle Studios. It was released in September 2000. And it is also a sequel to the game Baldur’s Gate. You can also download baldurs gate which is another very interesting role playing game. Baldurs Gate 2 is plotted right after the first game. And the story of Gorion’s Ward is continued in this game also. In this game it is shown that the matchless heritage of Gorion has now gained popularity.
Summary. Baldur's Gate is a fantasy role-playing game developed by Bioware and released in 1998 for the PC. It is the first role-playing game developed by Bioware and it ushered forth a new age of PC role-playing games set within the numerous Dungeons and Dragons universes. Baldur's Gate received a retail-released expansion pack in 1999 called Baldur's Gate: Tales of the Sword Coast. An enhanced version of Baldur's Gate is now available for tablets and modern PC's.
It is the first game in the Baldur's Gate series, and takes place in the Forgotten Realms, a high fantasy campaign setting, using a modified version of the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons (AD&D) 2nd edition rules. The game received critical acclaim and was credited for revitalizing the computer role-playing game genre. Baldur's Gate was the first game to use the Infinity Engine for its graphics. Interplay went on to use the engine for other Forgotten Realms-licensed games, including the Icewind Dale series, as well as other licensed D&D campaign worlds, such as Planescape, setting of Planescape: Torment.
15 years later, a new Baldur's Gate game is finally coming. Comments. Hayden Dingman | @haydencd. Games reporter, PCWorld. There's a new Baldur's Gate game in the works. No, I don't mean Obsidian's spiritual successor Pillars of Eternity. I mean a real, It's called Baldur's Gate  game. The announcement comes courtesy of Beamdog, the developer that worked on the updated Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition and Baldur's Gate II: Enhanced Edition.