The effects of the cholinergic drugs are to produce the same effects as stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system. These effects include slowing of the heartbeat, increases in normal secretions including the digestive acids of the stomach, saliva and tears. Cholinergic drugs are also used in control of glaucoma, a disease that is caused by increased pressure inside the eye. Cholinergic drugs usually act in one of two ways. Some directly mimic the effect of acetylcholine, while others block the effects of acetylcholinesterase.
An anticholinergic agent is a substance that blocks the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the central and the peripheral nervous system. Anticholinergics inhibit parasympathetic nerve impulses by selectively blocking the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine to its receptor in nerve cells. 
1 A substance (or ligand) is cholinergic if it is capable of producing, altering, or releasing acetylcholine (indirect-acting) or mimicking its behaviour at one or more of the body's acetylcholine receptor types (direct-acting). 2  Such mimics are called parasympathomimetic drugs or cholinomimetic drugs. It prevents fat deposits in the liver and facilitates the movement of fats into the cells. The richest sources of choline are liver, kidney, brain, wheat germ, brewer's yeast, and egg yolk. Neurologically, cholinergic is the abbreviated term referring to acetylcholine. The parasympathetic nervous system, which uses acetylcholine almost exclusively to send its messages, is said to be almost entirely cholinergic
Anticholinergics are a class of drugs that block the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the brain. They are used to treat diseases like asthma, incontinence, gastrointestinal cramps, and muscular spasms. 
The effects of the cholinergic drugs are to produce the same effects as stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system. These effects include slowing of the heartbeat, increases in normal secretions including the digestive acids of the stomach, saliva and tears. The cholinergic drugs may be used in several ways. The cholinergic muscle stimulants are used to diagnose and treat myasthenia gravis, a disease that causes severe muscle weakness.
Cholinergic Drugs. This class of drugs includes bethanechol (Duvoid, Urecholine). Cholinergic refers to nerve cells or fibers that use a certain type of chemical to send signals within the body. Cholinergic drugs are used when the bladder is not emptied completely following urination. This problem is known as residual urine in the bladder
Edit 0 2 …. Cholinergic drugs are medications that produce the same effects as the parasympathetic nervous system, especially imitating acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is the most common neurohormone of the parasympathetic nervous system, it is responsible for the everyday work of the body. Cholinergic drugs are also used in control of glaucoma, a disease that is caused by increased pressure inside the eye. Cholinergic drugs usually act in one of two ways. Some directly mimic the effect of acetylcholine, while others block the effects of acetylcholinesterase.
Precautions. Cholinergic drugs should be avoided when the patient has any sort of obstruction in the urinary or digestive tracts, such a a tumor, or severe inflammation which is causing blockage. They should be used with caution in patients with asthma, epilepsy, slow heart beat, hyperthyroidism, or gastric ulcers. The cholinergic drugs may be used in several ways. The cholinergic muscle stimulants are used to diagnose and treat myasthenia gravis, a disease that causes severe muscle weakness.
Purpose. Cholinergic drugs produce the same effects as acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is the most common neurohormone of the parasympathetic nervous system, the part of the peripheral nervous system responsible for the every day work of the body. The cholinergic drugs may be used in several ways. The cholinergic muscle stimulants are used to diagnose and treat myasthenia gravis, a disease that causes severe muscle weakness.