Francois /fran-cois/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Latin origin, and the name Francois means frenchman. Francois is an alternate spelling of Francis (Latin). Francia is a familiar last name. How popular is Francois? Francois is an uncommonly occurring given name for males but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#3079 out of 150436, Top 2%).
Francois is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Fran-cois. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5502 in baby name popularity for boys with 16 occurrences. Just for fun, see the name Francois in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Francois in Nautical Flags page.
Meaning of Francois. French name. In French, the name Francois means-free.The name Francois originated as an French name. The name Francois is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-free. Origin-France. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special! 
Francois françois is A french form of The English. Francis forms Of francois françois include The names Frans. And french francois françois is not widely used as a baby. Name for boys it is not in the. top 1000 names Francois françois is A french form of The English. Francis forms Of francois françois include The names Frans. And french francois françois is not widely used as a baby. name for boys
Francois françois is A french form of The English. Francis forms Of francois françois include The names Frans. And french francois françois is not widely used as a baby. Name for boys it is not in the. Top 1000 names among the group of boy names Directly, Related to francois françois francis was the. most popular in 2012 Francois françois is A french form of The English. Francis forms Of francois françois include The names Frans. And french francois françois is not widely used as a baby. name for boys
Francois françois is Of italian And Old french, origin and it is used mainly In. French Old french: Origin it is derived literally from the word francois françois which is of 'The'. Meaning french the use Of the french word as a name was Inspired By saint Francis (of-assisi). 1181 1226 Francois françois is A french form of The English. Francis forms Of francois françois include The names Frans. And french francois françois is not widely used as a baby. name for boys
[ 2 syll. fra-nco-nço ] Is the baby boy Name francois françois is FRae-AS FRAE - †. Nsw aa francois François is Of Italian and, old french origin and it is Used. Mainly In french: Old french origin it is derived literally from the word francois françois which 'Is'. of the meaning french Francois françois is A french form of The English. Francis forms Of francois françois include The names Frans. And french francois françois is not widely used as a baby. name for boys
[ 2 syll. fran-coi(s) , fr-anco-is ] The baby boy name Francois is pronounced as FRae-NSW AA - †. Francois is used predominantly in the French language and it is derived from Italian origins. Francois is a variation of the name Francis (English). See also the related form, Jean Francois. Francois is an irregularly used baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000.
The name Francois is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Francois is: Free. Latin Meaning: The name Francois is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Francois is: Frenchman. Famous Bearer: movie producer Francis Ford Coppola. French Meaning: The name Francois is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Francois is: Free; a free man. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths