Fatwood, also known as fat lighter, lighter wood, rich lighter, pine knot, lighter knot, heart pine or lighter'd [ sic ], is derived from the heartwood of pine trees. This resin-impregnated heartwood becomes hard and rot-resistant. In Louisiana fatwood is known as rich lighter and cut slivers are what is referred to as kindling because of the abundance. The pitch-soaked wood produces an oily, sooty smoke, and it is recommended that one should not cook on a fire until all the fatwood has completely burned out.
Simply nature’s best fire starter. Born from the wood of old pine stumps left for waste after logging, it is made from splitting the stumps of pine trees that contain a high concentration of natural resin. As the stumpwood hardens over time, the resin or sap concentrates to create an all-natural, 100% organic, chemical-free fire starter. The stumps are split into sticks approximately 8″ in length and 3/4″ in diameter. We’ve found this size to be a convenient and ideal size for practically all applications. Whether using it in the fireplace, the backyard BBQ, a pellet stove, or even in the woods while camping, Fatwood Firestarter is the ideal choice.
Fatwood is scar tissue of a damaged or injured pine tree. A lightning strike will scar a tree sometimes top to bottom without necessarily killing the tree. The result scar of burnt bark will scar over with resin. Once hardened, the wood and bark around the area becomes rich with the flammable hardened resin. In Louisiana fatwood is known as rich lighter and cut slivers are what is referred to as kindling because of the abundance. The pitch-soaked wood produces an oily, sooty smoke, and it is recommended that one should not cook on a fire until all the fatwood has completely burned out.
Fat lighter or fatwood is sold in stick form or dust form by different suppliers. Under damp conditions, fatwood will help you to start a fire and sustain the flame. Fatwood shavings can be ignited with the use of a sparker type fire starter. Fatwood / Fatlighter. Fat lighter or Fat wood. Called by many names: * fatlighter * fatwood * lighter wood (light wood) * pitchwood / pitch wood * stump fat lighter Fat lighter is pine wood saturated in pitch or resin commonly used for fire starting. Usually found in the pine tree stumps
Our Fatwood comes from non-rainforest areas of Central America. It’s part of our dedication to sustainable forestry. Live trees are never cut for our Fatwood and we harvest only non-endangered pine species. The stumps are split into sticks approximately 8″ in length and 3/4″ in diameter. We’ve found this size to be a convenient and ideal size for practically all applications. Whether using it in the fireplace, the backyard BBQ, a pellet stove, or even in the woods while camping, Fatwood Firestarter is the ideal choice.
No, fatwood isn’t just wood that could stand to go on a diet. Also known as pitchwood, lighter pine, and dozens of other nicknames, fatwood is an easy igniting substance that comes from the heartwood of pine trees. When a pine tree is cut down, struck by lightning, broken by force, or even just loses a limb, the tree’s roots continue to send pitch — or resin, the sticky substance that hardens into amber — to the wounded area.
You’ve probably heard of fatwood, the miracle fire starter. “Miracle” might be a bit strong, but fatwood makes wonderful tinder and kindling. Finding and harvesting fatwood is easy. Here’s how. To get the sticks, it works great to baton through the fatwood planks with a smaller knife, as described above. When you’re heading for the hills, just throw a stick of fatwood in your pack. A single stick of fatwood will produce enough shavings and small kindling to start quite a few fires.
You may know it by another name – fatwood, lighter wood, fat lighter, pine knot, or some other alias. Fat lighter’d, as Uncle Otha called it, is a 100% nature-made fire starter. The resin in conifers concentrates in the base of the tree. 
Click title or picture for full article. Fatwood / Fatlighter Fat lighter or Fat wood Called by many names: * fatlighter * fatwood * lighter wood (light wood) * pitchwood / pitch wood * stump fat lighter Fat lighter is pine wood saturated in pitch or resin commonly used for fire starting. Fatwood / Fatlighter. Fat lighter or Fat wood. Called by many names: * fatlighter * fatwood * lighter wood (light wood) * pitchwood / pitch wood * stump fat lighter Fat lighter is pine wood saturated in pitch or resin commonly used for fire starting. Usually found in the pine tree stumps