There is not a way to actually test for mold or fungus within the body, but the blood test looks for indications of mold presence. There are several cellular effects that are considered, which can indicate the effects of black mold poisoning on the body.
Should your results show positive on this test, it will designate that your body has been exposed to and is having a reaction to a pathogenic mold and will also specify the species and level of exposure for that species. The test will not verify that mold is colonizing in your body or that you have a fungal infection.
A mold problem within your home or business can cause many symptoms of black mold poisoning, and a black mold blood test can be used to detect the effects of the toxic mold within your body.
How a Black Mold Blood Test Works. If you suspect that mold poisoning is the cause of your health problems, a black mold blood test is the best way to confirm your suspicions. A small amount of blood is drawn, and it is tested for the presence of fungal elements within the body.
Your Subtitle text. Mold Testing Can be Complex, there are Many Ways to Test for Mold Medical Testing Physicians use many different medical tests to try and detect mold in the human body, some provide good information, while others provide no valuable information whatsoever.
Fungus, Mold, Mycotoxins and Mycobacterium. BioTrek Lab's blood, urine, sampling profiling methods are unique throughout our industry. Our custom panels for testing can detect down to, and identify the species of Fungus, Mold, Mycobacterium, and Yeasts that are present within your body.
Myco-M7 Series Mycotoxin Profile Call for more information Order a Test. ICAT (Allergy / Antigen) Profile. The ICAT profile can indicate if your body has been exposed to Fungus / Mold, and what species of Fungus and mold you have been exposed to.
If you know that the symptoms are caused by mold, you can let your doctor know the cause of your health problems and they will determine the best course of action. If needed, a doctor can also give you a black mold blood test.