DEFINITION of 'Stock Keeping Unit-SKU'. A store's or catalog's product and service identification code, often portrayed as a machine-readable bar code that helps the item to be tracked for inventory. A stock keeping unit (SKU) does not need to be assigned to physical products in inventory. Often, SKUs are applied to intangible, but billable products, such as units of repair time or warranties. For this reason, a SKU can be thought of as a code assigned to a supplier's billable entities
A stock-keeping unit or SKU is a unique identifier for each distinct product and service that can be purchased. Usage of the SKU system is rooted in data management, enabling the company to systematically track their inventory or product availability, such as in warehouses and retail outlets. 
Stich Labs. SKU (stockkeeping unit, sometimes spelled Sku) is an identification, usually alphanumeric, of a particular product that allows it to be tracked for inventory purposes. Typically, an SKU (pronounced with the individual letters or as SKYEW) is associated with any purchasable item in a store or catalog. 
Product SKUs and Adjustments. In Ubercart, the product model (usually defined by a manufacturer) or SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) is the main identifier for a product across the various systems. When creating your products, deciding on a standard for setting this field up front will save you a lot of grief later on. 
SKU stands for Stock-keeping unit. A Product SKU is a string representing the Product unique identifier in your Ecommerce shop: for example SKU for books might be the IBAN identifier for this book such as 8120725247.
Stands for Stock Keeping Unit, and is conveniently pronounced skew.. A SKU is a number or string of alpha and numeric characters that uniquely identify a product. For this reason, SKUs are often called part numbers, product numbers, and product identifiers. SKUs may be a universal number such as a UPC code or supplier part number or may be a unique identifier used by a specific a store or online retailer.
SKU. Stands for Stock Keeping Unit, and is conveniently pronounced skew.. A SKU is a number or string of alpha and numeric characters that uniquely identify a product. For this reason, SKUs are often called part numbers, product numbers, and product identifiers. SKUs may be a universal number such as a UPC code or supplier part number or may be a unique identifier used by a specific a store or online retailer. For example, one company may use the 10 character identifier supplied by the manufacturer as the SKU of an external hard drive
SKU stands for Stock Keeping Unit which is an individual item, such as a product or a service that is offered for sale. The item is represented by a unique code specific to the company that sells the item. The SKU includes specific details about the product such as product size variation and unlike a barcode it is human readable.
In the field of inventory management, a stock keeping unit or SKU (/ˌɛsˌkeɪˈjuː/ or /ˈskuː/ SKOO or /ˈskjuː/) is a distinct type of item for sale, such as a product or service, and all attributes associated with the item type that distinguish it from other item types. SKU can also refer to a unique identifier or code that refers to the particular stock keeping unit. These codes are not regulated nor standardized. When a company receives items from a vendor, it has a choice of maintaining the vendor's SKU or creating its own.
Short for stock keeping unit, SKU is a unique numerical identifying number that refers to a specific stock item in a retailer's inventory or product catalog. The SKU is often used to identify the product, product size or type, and the manufacturer. In the retail industry, the SKU is a part of the backend inventory control system and enables a retailer to track a product in their inventory that may be in warehouses or in retail outlets. See also UPC. PREVIOUSskin.