d u k e. e d u / w r i t i n g-s t u d i o Argument Essay Definition of genre One common genre of academic writing is the argument essay. This type of essay presents a central claim (or claims, depending on length and purpose) and supports the claim(s) using an argument based on evidence and warrants. 
Argument is an especially important text type since it requires the writer to provide reasoned, logical proof for a claim or assertion. The purpose of argument is to change the reader’s thinking, move the reader to action, or convince the reader to accept the writer’s explanation of a problem or concept. An argument is a reasoned, logical way of demonstrating the writer’s position, belief, or conclusion. The writer makes a claim and then defends that claim with information from credible sources. Students must clarify relationships between the claim and the evidence and address counter claims.
Exposition / Persuasive Writing is used to present a logical argument from a particular point of view. This genre will often involve the writer comparing opposite points of view, analysing the arguments and concluding with an overriding opinion or conclusive argument. 
Genres of Argument Essay. Below is a free essay on Genres of Argument from Anti Essays, your source for free research papers, essays, and term paper examples. There are numerous genres of argument, and these various types help us locate different arguments effortlessly.
Types of Papers: Persuasive/Persuade. To write a persuasive paper, you’ll need to use evidence and good reasons to convince others to agree with your point of view on a particular subject. Select a good topic! 
The argumentative essay is a genre of writing that requires the student to investigate a topic; collect, generate, and evaluate evidence; and establish a position on the topic in a concise manner. Please note: Some confusion may occur between the argumentative essay and the expository essay. 
Research: What it is not. A research paper is not simply an informed summary of a topic by means of primary and secondary sources. It is neither a book report nor an opinion piece nor an expository essay consisting solely of one's interpretation of a text nor an overview of a particular topic. Two major types of research papers. Argumentative research paper: The argumentative research paper consists of an introduction in which the writer clearly introduces the topic and informs his audience exactly which stance he intends to take; this stance is often identified as the thesis statement.
A text genre is a type of written or spoken discourse. 