As we saw in the relationship between gluten and Candida overgrowth, a gluten-free diet alone does not always get rid of leaky gut. Both Candida overgrowth and bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine (SIBO) can irritate the lining of the intestines and contribute to leaky gut. But that’s not all. The combination of Candida overgrowth and gluten is a dangerous one. On their own, both gluten and Candida can damage the lining of the gut. With the help of Candida, gluten can activate the immune system and establish a lifelong sensitivity to gluten—no matter how old you are.
Celiac disease. Celiac disease (CD) is an autoimmune disease, not an allergy or intolerance. The disease manifests with inflammation and injury to the bowel lining when gluten is consumed. It can cause gastrointestinal scarring and villous atrophy – resulting in permanent damage.
Well, there is a protein on the surface of Candida Albicans that is very, very similar to the proteins found in gluten. This link was noted back in 2003, when a team of researchers postulated that C. Albicans might actually be a trigger for celiac disease. Over time, this can turn into an intolerance or even something very similar to celiac disease. Soon, an individual might find that eating gluten causes digestive issues, fatigue, headaches and many other symptoms of a gluten sensitivity. Avoiding gluten is usually a good idea if you suffer from Candida Related Complex.
A protein found in Candida called HWP-1 is identical or highly homologous (nearly identical) to two gluten proteins, alpha gliadin and gamma-gliadin. These proteins are known to stimulate immune cell responses in people with celiac disease. 
Definition. A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes the protein gluten. Gluten is found in grains such as wheat, barley, rye, and a cross between wheat and rye called triticale. A gluten-free diet is primarily used to treat celiac disease. Gluten causes inflammation in the small intestines of people with celiac disease. The gluten-free diet is a treatment for celiac disease. Some people who don't have celiac disease also may have symptoms when they eat gluten, however. This is called non-celiac gluten sensitivity. People with non-celiac gluten sensitivity may benefit from a gluten-free diet.
Note that couscous is made of wheat and malts are made of gluten grains. Learn the various names of wheat to avoid it, and discover which grains are gluten free. Candida albicans is a yeast that is found in most humans. Although oats do not contain gluten, the protein in oats is similar. Also, to avoid gluten with oats it is necessary to purchase gluten free oats and most oats are processed in the same plants as wheat and other gluten containing grains.
Candida—a yeast—is aggressive and sly. When gluten meets Candida, it can have a disastrous effect on the body. Living gluten-free and healing the damaged lining of the gut is critical, with support from nourishing superfood supplements like Vitality SuperGreen. The combination of Candida overgrowth and gluten is a dangerous one. On their own, both gluten and Candida can damage the lining of the gut. With the help of Candida, gluten can activate the immune system and establish a lifelong sensitivity to gluten—no matter how old you are.
A Gluten-Free Diet for Candida Is Only Part of the Solution. The combination of Candida overgrowth and gluten is a dangerous one. On their own, both gluten and Candida can damage the lining of the gut. With the help of Candida, gluten can activate the immune system and establish a lifelong sensitivity to gluten—no matter how old you are.
Candida. Candida is an overgrowth of yeast (fungus) that can be anywhere in the body, however I only experienced this in my stomach (gut) which occurs with an overgrowth of an intestinal organism called Candida Albicans due to over-use of antibiotics, overgrowth of yeast, stress or a diet high in sugar. 
The gluten free revolution has it's roots in the rise in the number of diagnosed cases of Celiac disease. Sufferers of Celiac disease have problems digesting gluten, the protein found in wheat. Eating any sort of wheat or wheat product can cause those afflicted with the disease painful stomach cramping. The severity varies, from mild to those who can't even eat food that has been in contact with wheat. Anyone familiar with Doug's work certainly won't be surprised at the ability of wheat to cause health problems. While wheat, especially of the whole-grain variety, is often touted as a healthy food and recommended by health advocates, wheat's problems go deeper than just gluten.