The pectineus muscle is located close to other muscles of the pelvis and thigh, such as the adductor longus, and forms part of the femoral triangle. It runs from the pelvis and along the femur in the upper leg. However, this muscle is relatively small in comparison to other muscles of the thigh. Pectineus. The pectineus muscle is a small muscle locates in the mid-thigh of the leg. Its physiologic role is in the flexing and adducting (drawing inward toward the body) of the thigh. Due to its location and function, it is classified as a pelvic muscle
The pectineus muscle (from the Latin word pecten, meaning comb) is a flat, quadrangular muscle, situated at the anterior (front) part of the upper and medial (inner) aspect of the thigh. The muscle does adduct and medially rotate the thigh but its primary function is hip flexion. It can be classified in the medial compartment of thigh (when the function is emphasized) or the anterior compartment of thigh (when the nerve is emphasized).
There are five groin muscles or adductor muscles. The pectineus, adductor brevis and adductor longus are known as the short adductors which go from the pelvis to the thigh bone) and the gracilis and adductor magnus (long adductors which go from the pelvis to the knee). Groin Strain. A groin strain or a groin pull is a tear or rupture to any one of the adductor muscles resulting in inner thigh pain. A pulled groin muscle can range from very mild to completely debilitating.
Pectineus is positioned between the Iliopsoas and Adductor Longus muscles and is part of the short adductor group with adductors brevis and longus. 1  Upper front of the pubic bone. 
Summary Information: Pectineus. Pectineus: The pectineus is one of the medial thigh muscles, a group of muscles that make up the medial section or inner area of the thigh. The pectineus originates on the pubis of the bony pelvis and inserts on the femur.
A groin pull -- or groin strain -- results from putting too much stress on muscles in your groin and thigh. If these muscles are tensed too forcefully or too suddenly, they can get over-stretched or torn. Groin pulls are common in people who play sports that require a lot of running and jumping. 
The pectineus muscle is the most anterior adductor of the hip. The muscle does adduct and medially rotate the thigh but its primary function is hip flexion. It can be classified in the medial compartment of thigh (when the function is emphasized) or the anterior compartment of thigh (when the nerve is emphasized).
Self-Massage. Perform self-massage to treat pain or discomfort in the pectineus muscle. Sitting comfortably with your legs extended in front of you, gently roll one leg outward to expose the inner thigh. Bending the knee and placing the ankle on the opposite knee also increases the exposure of this area. The pectineus muscle is often over-stretched or tight. To properly loosen the inner thigh area, start with a standing stretch. Stand with your right shoulder facing a set of stairs. Lift your right leg and place the inner edge of your right foot onto the lowest stair.