Yes | No Thank you! Your cycle is measured by the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. If your LMP was 1/23 and your cycle is 28 days, your period would be due about Saturday, 2/20. To get an idea of your cycle length, see if you can backtrack and plot out the start of your past periods on a calendar. If your cycle were 28 days, your period before your LMP would have started about Dec. 26. 
To calculate menstrual cycle length, you count the number of days from day one of your period (CD 1) up to, and including, the day before the next period starts. The count does not include the first day of the next menstrual period, because that's Cycle Day 1 of the next cycle. 1 Your average cycle length displays. 2  Each time you track your next period, your cycle length is updated! 3  Use My History/Quick History, or the Menstrual Cycle Chart, to see your average, shortest and longest menstrual cycle length.
1 Each time you track your next period, your cycle length is updated! 2  Use My History/Quick History, or the Menstrual Cycle Chart, to see your average, shortest and longest menstrual cycle length. 3  Use My Preferences cycle rules to exclude irregular periods. 1 Your average cycle length displays. 2  Each time you track your next period, your cycle length is updated! 3  Use My History/Quick History, or the Menstrual Cycle Chart, to see your average, shortest and longest menstrual cycle length.
Some women don't have cycles that are the same number of days from month to month. For me, I range anywhere from 30 to 35 days. The first day of your period is day 1. For me, I average 32 days per cycle. You can figure this out by averaging the data you collect. There are websites that do this for you. You start you period, that is day one. Until you start your next period. You might have to keep track for awhile until you really know. Then you can go from there. (Example: my period started July 24, that's day one. My next period was Aug. 30 I'm on a 37 day cycle. I hope that helps.
Your cycle begins on the first day you have regular bleeding. Spotting doesn’t count. For example, Cycle Day 1 is the first day of your period; Cycle Day 2 is the second day of your period, Cycle Day 3 is the third day of your menstrual flow, and so forth. Ex.= February 2nd. To figure out how long your cycle is, start at cycle day 1 of your last menstrual cycle and begin counting (Cycle day 1,2,3,4 and so forth). The length= the last cycle day before you started bleeding again.
The luteal phase is the third and final phase of the menstrual cycle, following ovulation. Also referred as as DPO (days past ovulation), its length is the number of days between ovulation up to the day before the start of your next period. A normal luteal phase is considered to be between 10 and 16 days. 
How to Calculate Menstrual Cycle Length. Menstrual cycle length is the number of days your menstrual cycle lasts. It is not the same as period length, which is the number of days your period lasts. The day your period starts is considered Cycle Day (CD) 1 -- the start of a new menstrual cycle. 1 Your average cycle length displays. 2  Each time you track your next period, your cycle length is updated! 3  Use My History/Quick History, or the Menstrual Cycle Chart, to see your average, shortest and longest menstrual cycle length.
Have your average cycle length automatically calculated at MyMonthlyCycles.com whenever you update your free period calendar! It's simple! Details below ... The textbook average for a woman's menstrual cycle length is 28 days, and for period length, 3 to 5 days. 1 Your average cycle length displays. 2  Each time you track your next period, your cycle length is updated! 3  Use My History/Quick History, or the Menstrual Cycle Chart, to see your average, shortest and longest menstrual cycle length.
When doctors talk about the length of your cycle, they include the days when you have your period. If you have a regular 28-day cycle you will start your period every four weeks. If you have a 22-day cycle you'll have a period about every three weeks. The average period lasts for three to four days, but it can be shorter or longer, ranging from between one and seven days. If you have a 28-day cycle, you will probably ovulate in the middle of your cycle. If you have a 22-day cycle, you could ovulate just a few days after your period. If you have regular periods then it is fairly easy to work out when you are likely to be ovulating.