Despite the name, a geoduck is not a geode, nor is it a duck. In fact, it’s pronounced like gooey-duck. Clearly, nothing is quite as it seems when it comes to the geoduck. The handsome geoduck. The geoduck is the world’s largest burrowing clam, with the Puget Sound geoduck weighing over two pounds on average. It’s so large, it can’t fit into its own shell. Omnia extares, indeed! Geoducks can live longer than you or I
The Pacific geoduck (/ˈɡuːiːdʌk/ gooey duck), scientific name Panopea generosa, is a species of very large, edible saltwater clam in the family Hiatellidae. The common name is derived from a Lushootseed (Nisqually) word gʷidəq. gʷídəq The geoduck is the largest burrowing clam in the world, and one of the longest-lived animals of any type.
The geoduck is native to the west coast of North America. The shell of the clam ranges from 15 centimetres (5.9 in) to over 20 centimetres (7.9 in) in length, but the extremely long siphons make the clam itself much longer than this: the neck or siphons alone can be 1 metre (3.3 ft) in length. The geoduck is the largest burrowing clam in the world, and one of the longest-lived animals of any type.
Geoduck for sale at Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo. The name of this clam (/ˈɡuːiːdʌk/ gooey duck) is derived from a Lushootseed (Nisqually) word gʷidəq gʷídəq either a word composed of a first element of unknown meaning and əq meaning (genitals referring to the shape of the), clam or a phrase meaning dig. deep The geoduck is the largest burrowing clam in the world, and one of the longest-lived animals of any type.
The Incredible Geoduck. Geoduck is a large clam that mainly lives in the waters of Puget Sound area in the United States. It is the largest marine bivalve belonging to the family Bivalvia or Pelecypoda. The reason it is counted in the family Bivalvia is because it exhibits a distinct bi-halved external shell. Finding Geoduck. Finding geoducks is one thing and harvesting them is another. They are found at a few specific locations. Their habitats consist of undermining for up to 3-4 feet below the ocean sands. They have a long life and data shows that they can live up to more than a hundred years if left undisturbed.
Although written as geoduck, the name gives a different sound when used in speech and that is gooey-duck, however, it has nothing to do with the regular ducks. It is considered to be the largest in its group and is found deep burrowed under the seawater in the form of colonies. Finding Geoduck. Finding geoducks is one thing and harvesting them is another. They are found at a few specific locations. Their habitats consist of undermining for up to 3-4 feet below the ocean sands. They have a long life and data shows that they can live up to more than a hundred years if left undisturbed.
Geoduck (Panopea generosa). The most impressive clam in the Pacific Northwest is the geoduck (Panopea generosa). The world's largest burrowing clam, the geoduck reaches an average size of 2.07 pounds (including the shell) in subtidal waters of Puget Sound (based on surveys of commercial beds before fishing). 