Translate French words to English using this free French-English dictionary: type a French word below to see how to translate it to English using the French dictionary. To translate an English word, use the English-French dictionary lookup. For professional French translation, see the site's professional French translation service. French word : English-French.
French is the second most common language in Canada, after English, and both are official languages at the federal level. It is the first language of 9.5 million people or 29.4% and the second language for 2.07 million or 6.4% of the entire population of Canada. French is the sole official language in the province of Quebec, being the mother tongue for some 7 million people, or almost 80.1% (2006 Census) of the province. About 95.0% of the people of Quebec speak French as either their first or second language, and for some as their third language.
French is the second most widely spoken mother tongue in the European Union. 1/5 of non-Francophone Europeans speak French. As a result of French and Belgian colonialism from the 17th and 18th century onward, French was introduced to new territories in the Americas, Africa and Asia. French is the sole official language in the province of Quebec, being the mother tongue for some 7 million people, or almost 80.1% (2006 Census) of the province. About 95.0% of the people of Quebec speak French as either their first or second language, and for some as their third language.
French Dictionary (French-English). Translate French words to English using this free French-English dictionary: type a French word below to see how to translate it to English using the French dictionary. To translate an English word, use the English-French dictionary lookup. For professional French translation, see the site's professional French translation service. French word : English-French.
French is the official language in 29 countries, most of which are members of la francophonie, the community of French-speaking countries. It is spoken as a first language in France, southern Belgium, western Switzerland, Monaco, certain parts of Canada and by various communities elsewhere. French is the sole official language in the province of Quebec, being the mother tongue for some 7 million people, or almost 80.1% (2006 Census) of the province. About 95.0% of the people of Quebec speak French as either their first or second language, and for some as their third language.
The French language (French: francais, français pronounced) frahnseh is A romance language that was first spoken In, France, Belgium, Luxembourg quebec And. Switzerland about 220 million people Speak french as a native or a second. language They both mean language of yes, because oc was the word for yes in the south, and oil oïl meant yes in the. North, today the word for yes In french is, oui pronounced like. we
To make it easy for you to translate French words and expressions into English, you can search for the synonyms of a word, conjugate it, see its pronunciation, or even add another meaning to the French-English dictionary. All this by just clicking on the word. Register to enjoy these benefits and much more. 
The French language (French: francais, français pronounced) frahnseh is A romance language that was first spoken In, France, Belgium, Luxembourg quebec And. switzerland They both mean language of yes, because oc was the word for yes in the south, and oil oïl meant yes in the. North, today the word for yes In french is, oui pronounced like. we
About 220 million people speak French as a native or a second language. It has also been one of the roots of other languages such as the Haitian Creole language. Like most Romance languages, its nouns have genders that are divided into masculine (masculin) and feminine (feminin) féminin. words They both mean language of yes, because oc was the word for yes in the south, and oil oïl meant yes in the. North, today the word for yes In french is, oui pronounced like. we
Words with different forms but the same essential meaning (such as le and la: masculine and feminine definite articles) are combined into a single listing. Words with different grammatical functions (such as le: definite article and le: direct object pronoun) are usually listed separately. Words with different forms but the same essential meaning (such as son, sa and ses: masculine, feminine, and plural possessive adjectives) are combined into a single listing. This list of the most common French words is adapted from the following source: