The Falafel sandwich is usually dressed with a sauce such as tahini or hummos. In the West and in Israel, chickpeas are used. In Arab countries, the beans used are more likely to be fava beans. It is made with fava beans in Egypt and in Lebanon. 
Falafel (/fəˈlɑːfəl/ ; Arabic: فلافل ‎, [faeˈlaeːfɪl]. ) fæˈlæːfɪl is a-deep fried ball or patty made from ground, chickpeas fava, beans or. both Falafel balls may also be eaten alone as a snack or served as part of a meze tray (assortment of appetizers). Falafel is a common dish eaten throughout the Middle East. The fritters are now found around the world as a replacement for meat and as a form of street food.
The whole sandwich is coated with hummus, drizzled with tahini and, if you’re so inclined, topped with a spicy sauce as well. Many falafel restaurants also serve a meat counterpart to the falafel known as shawarma, which is usually lamb (but can be chicken or turkey) roasted on a spit and shaved off for sandwiches.
Place greens inside each pita half, add 1/2 to 1 falafel patty (depending on the size) and drizzle with tahini sauce. If you like your sauce thicker, spread it inside the pita before adding the greens and falafel patty. (If making falafel into round balls, place 3 balls per pita half.). Makes about 10 patties. 
) is a deep-fried ball or patty made from ground chickpeas, fava beans, or both. Falafel is a traditional Middle Eastern food, commonly served in a pita, which acts as a pocket, or wrapped in a flatbread known as lafa; falafel also frequently refers to a wrapped sandwich that is prepared in this way. Falafel balls may also be eaten alone as a snack or served as part of a meze tray (assortment of appetizers). Falafel is a common dish eaten throughout the Middle East. The fritters are now found around the world as a replacement for meat and as a form of street food.
Falafel is made from fava beans or chickpeas, or a combination of the two. The use of chickpeas is predominant in most Middle Eastern countries. The dish is usually made with chickpeas in Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Israel and Palestine. This version is the most popular in the West. Falafel balls may also be eaten alone as a snack or served as part of a meze tray (assortment of appetizers). Falafel is a common dish eaten throughout the Middle East. The fritters are now found around the world as a replacement for meat and as a form of street food.
Here’s my favorite way to make a falafel pita: start with a layer of hummus deep inside the pocket, then add the falafel, lettuce, tomatoes, and pickles. Top with a thin layer of tahini sauce. Oy, I’m making myself hungry! Here is my recipe for falafel, along with a few variations you can try. In Israel, falafel has been adopted from Arab cuisine and the most popular form, made with chickpeas, is wildly popular. Falafel stands are as numerous and plentiful in Israel as McDonalds here in the U.S. If only we had half as many falafel stands in the U.S. as we do McDonalds, I’d be a very happy girl.
The word falafel may descend from the Arabic word falāfil, a plural of the word filfil, meaning “pepper.” These fried vegetarian fritters are often served along with hummus, and tahini sauce (known as a “falafel plate.”) They’re also great served with toum, a Middle Eastern garlic sauce. In Israel, falafel has been adopted from Arab cuisine and the most popular form, made with chickpeas, is wildly popular. Falafel stands are as numerous and plentiful in Israel as McDonalds here in the U.S. If only we had half as many falafel stands in the U.S. as we do McDonalds, I’d be a very happy girl.
Falafel is a popular Middle Eastern food that is made with spiced chickpeas and fava beans that are ground into a paste, formed into balls, and then fried. The resulting patties are typically rolled up in a flatbread like pita and topped with a tangy sauce. 
The falafel balls are topped with salads, pickled vegetables, hot sauce, and drizzled with tahini-based sauces. Falafel balls may also be eaten alone as a snack or served as part of a meze tray (assortment of appetizers). Falafel is a common dish eaten throughout the Middle East. The fritters are now found around the world as a replacement for meat and as a form of street food.