Lucentis-Injections, Costs and Side Effects. Lucentis is the trade name of Ranibizumab. Lucentis is the trade name of the drug Ranibizumab, which can be useful for people with diabetes who are losing their sight from diabetic macular oedema (DMO) or 'wet' age related macular degeneration (ARMD). Lucentis itself is a fragment of Avastin with modifications that the manufacturer Genentech says makes it more suitable for the eyes but at a higher cost and with more injections required.
The cost of Lucentis, a drug specifically formulated for the eye, is approximately $2,000 per intravitreal dose, while Avastin, formulated for intravenous use and available in larger quantities that can be compounded into smaller units, costs approximately $60 per intravitreal dose. 
The cost ofLucentis is about $2227 per injection, 2 and theMARINA study 3 showed benefit from monthlyLucentis injections for two years. Therefore,after one year, Lucentis costs in the U.S. couldexceed $9 billion. Avastin’s Benefits In contrast to Lucentis’ cost, the drug cost forAvastin is only about $50 per dose. Further,many clinicians have noted that Avastin seemsto be longer-acting than Lucentis, perhapsbecause Avastin’s larger size impedes clearancefrom the eye.
The standard treatment is for wet macular degeneration involves repeated injections into the eye. These can be very expensive, especially for someone without a secondary insurance. Lucentis and Eylea cost around $2000 per injection. 
1 For wet macular degeneration, in which a cluster of leaky blood vessels forms in the eye, a doctor might prescribe injections into the eye with bevacizumab (brand name Avastin), a chemotherapy drug that is used off-label, or pegaptanib (brand name Macugen) or ranibizumab (brand name Lucentis). 1 For patients not covered by health insurance, treatment for macular degeneration typically costs about $9,000-$65,000, depending on which drug is used, for a two-year course of treatment with drugs injected into the eye to inhibit formation of and leakage from excess blood vessels.
A dose of Avastin -- used off-label for this purpose, as the drug is currently approved only for cancer indications -- costs about $50 whereas a dose of Ludentis, which is approved for AMD, costs about $2,000. Maguire and colleagues reported that Avastin delivered monthly cost an average of $595 and Lucentis cost $23,400. If the drugs were taken only as needed, rather than on a monthly basis, the cost dropped for both drugs, but Avastin was still the bargain choice: $385 for the year of treatment compared with $13,800.
Medicare as of early 2010 provides a $50 reimbursement per injection when Avastin is used for macular degeneration treatments. In late 2009, eye doctors successfully lobbied to overturn a new Medicare directive that reduced reimbursements for Avastin from $50 to $7 per injection. Medicare's action temporarily forced eye doctors to use Lucentis instead of Avastin.
Similarly, there is no financial incentive for Genentech to sell less Lucentis and more Avastin. When Avastin is used to treat cancer patients, it is often delivered at more than 100 times the dose needed for an eye injection, and a full course of Avastin treatment for cancer can cost up to $50,000 per patient. In 2010, the combined cost of using Avastin and Lucentis to treat eye disorders was around $2 billion — or about one-sixth of the entire Medicare Part B drug budget.
One drug costs $50 per dose. The other costs $2,000 per dose. Now, new research shows that the drug Avastin, normally used in cancer treatment, is just about as effective at treating an eye disease that can lead to blindness as the more commonly used and more expensive Lucentis. Maguire and colleagues reported that Avastin delivered monthly cost an average of $595 and Lucentis cost $23,400. If the drugs were taken only as needed, rather than on a monthly basis, the cost dropped for both drugs, but Avastin was still the bargain choice: $385 for the year of treatment compared with $13,800.
The switch could also save patients $5 billion in insurance copayments, according to a new study in Health Affairs. Ranibizumab, more commonly known by its brand name Lucentis, is delivered as an injection to the eye and runs about $2,023 per dose. Many patients require up to 12 injections per year. That's why some doctors choose to prescribe the much cheaper drug Avastin (bevacizumab) instead, which costs around $55 per dose. In 2010, the combined cost of using Avastin and Lucentis to treat eye disorders was around $2 billion — or about one-sixth of the entire Medicare Part B drug budget.