fascia. pl. fasciae [L.] a sheet or band of fibrous tissue such as lies deep to the skin or invests muscles and various body organs. fascia adherens. one of the methods of attachment of actin filaments to the sarcolemma in cardiac muscle; a continuous zone of attachment. dense fascia surrounding the spermatic cord and testes; internal to the tunica dartos; in layers corresponding to the layers of abdominal muscle; an internal layer adherent to the tunica vaginalis and an external layer adherent to the skin. superficial fascia. 1. a fascial sheet lying directly beneath the skin.
Fasciorrhaphy is the medical term meaning suture of fascia. The word comes from the root fasci/o meaning pertaining to the fascia and the suffix-rrhaphy meaning to suture. … . 7 people found this useful. 
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. DMD is the most common form of muscular dystrophy This condition affects boys with onset between the ages of 3 and 5 years. This disorder progresses rapidly so that most of these boys are unable to walk by age 12 and later need a respirator to breathe. Is a specialized soft tissue manipulation technique used to ease the pain of conditions such as fibromyalgia, myofascial pain syndrome, movement restrictions, temporomandibular joint disorders (TMI), and carpal tunnel syndrome.
(Discuss) Proposed since November 2014. A fascia (/ˈfaeʃə/ , /ˈfæʃə/ ; ˈfaeʃiə ˈfæʃiə /plural.fasciae/ ; ˈfaeʃɨ ˈfæʃɨ; i Adjective : fascial) from latin band is a band or sheet of, connective tissue, fibers primarily collagen that forms beneath the, skin, to, attach stabilize enclose and separate muscles and. other internal organs Fasciae are classified according to their distinct layers as in superficial fascia, deep (or muscle) fascia, visceral and parietal fascia, and by their functions and anatomical location.
Are located in the walls of internal organs such as the digestive tract, blood vessels, and ducts leading from glands Their function is to move and control the flow of fluids through these structures. Involuntary Muscles Unstriated Muscles Visceral Muscles. Is a specialized soft tissue manipulation technique used to ease the pain of conditions such as fibromyalgia, myofascial pain syndrome, movement restrictions, temporomandibular joint disorders (TMI), and carpal tunnel syndrome.
diagnostic procedure for testing and recording neuromuscular activity by the electric stimulation of the nerve trunk that carries fibers to and from the muscles. 
fas·ci·a. n. pl. fas·ci·ae (făsh′ē-ē′, fā′shē-ē). 1. Anatomy A sheet or band of fibrous connective tissue enveloping, separating, or binding together muscles, organs, and other soft structures of the body. 2. A broad and distinct band of color. 1. fascia-a sheet or band of fibrous connective tissue separating or binding together muscles and organs etc. facia. connective tissue-tissue of mesodermal origin consisting of e.g. collagen fibroblasts and fatty cells; supports organs and fills spaces between them and forms tendons and ligaments.
subcutaneous fascia. a continuous layer of connective tissue over the entire body between the skin and the deep fascial investment of the specialized structures of the body, such as the muscles. It comprises an outer normally fatty layer and an inner thin elastic layer. A fibrous membrane covering, supporting, and separating tissue. There are two kinds of fascia: deep fasciae for muscles, and supeficial fasciae for connecting the skin to the muscles. fascial (fash'sh(e-)al), adjective.
When a tendon is surrounded by a synovial sheath, a mesotendon suspends it within the bursa and enables blood vessels to enter that tendon along its course. Term. epimysium. Definition. fibrous envelope of areolar tissue on surface of muscle fibers. 