Spasmodic dysphonia is a disorder characterized by involuntary movements of one or more muscles of the larynx or voice box. The first signs of spasmodic dysphonia are most often found in individuals between 30 and 50 years old. More women appear to be affected by spasmodic dysphonia than men. With spasmodic dysphonia, movement of the vocal cords is forced and strained resulting in a jerky, quivery, hoarse, tight, or groaning voice. Vocal interruptions or spasms, periods of no sound (aphonia), and periods when there is near normal voice occur.
Spasmodic dysphonia, also called laryngeal dystonia, is a voice disorder. It is characterized by involuntary spasms or movements in the muscles of the larynx (voice box) that cause the voice to break, and have a tight, strained, or strangled sound. Difficulties that result from spasmodic dysphonia range from occasional problems with saying a word or two to complete inability to communicate. There are three types of spasmodic dysphonia: Adductor spasmodic dysphonia. This is the most common type and is characterized by sudden involuntary spasms that cause the vocal cords to slam together and stiffen. The spasms interfere with vibration of the vocal cords and production of sound is difficult.
Spasmodic dysphonia (or laryngeal dystonia) is a voice disorder characterized by involuntary movements or spasms of one or more muscles of the larynx (vocal folds or voice box) during speech. Contents. 
Spasmodic dysphonia belongs to a family of neurological disorders called dystonias. A dystonia is a movement disorder that causes muscles to contract and spasm involuntarily. Dystonias can be generalized, affecting the entire body, or focal, affecting only a specific area of the body or group of muscles. Spasmodic Dysphonia. Maybe you have heard someone whose voice sounds tight, strangled, broken, whispery, or otherwise “not quite right.” It may be your own voice or that of someone you know. You may be trying to determine what is wrong, or a doctor may have already diagnosed the condition as spasmodic dysphonia (SD).
Spasmodic dysphonia, also called laryngeal dystonia, is a voice disorder. It is characterized by involuntary spasms or movements in the muscles of the larynx (voice box) that cause the voice to break, and have a tight, strained, or strangled sound. Difficulties that result from spasmodic dysphonia range from occasional problems with saying a word or two to complete inability to communicate. Adductor spasmodic dysphonia. This is the most common type and is characterized by sudden involuntary spasms that cause the vocal cords to slam together and stiffen. The spasms interfere with vibration of the vocal cords and production of sound is difficult.
Spasmodic Dysphonia (SD) is an uncommon voice disorder which has a significant impact on the quality of life of the sufferer. It is classified as a dystonia, which is a task-specific neurological movement disorder. 
Spasmodic dysphonia/laryngeal dystonia, a focal dystonia, involves involuntary contractions of the vocal cords causing interruptions of speech and affecting the voice quality. One of the most characteristic features of spasmodic dysphonia is the patterned, repeated 'breaks' in speech. 
Spasmodic dysphonia is a chronic (long-term) voice disorder. With spasmodic dysphonia, movement of the vocal cords is forced and strained resulting in a jerky, quivery, hoarse, tight, or groaning voice. Vocal interruptions or spasms, periods of no sound (aphonia), and periods when there is near normal voice occur.
Spasmodic dysphonia is a neurological disorder affecting the voice muscles in the larynx, or voice box. When we speak, air from the lungs is pushed between two elastic structures—called vocal folds or vocal cords—with sufficient pressure to cause them to vibrate, producing voice (see figure). Spasmodic dysphonia is a chronic condition that continues throughout a person’s life. Spasmodic dysphonia can affect anyone. It is a rare disorder, occurring in roughly one to four people per 100,000 people. The first signs of spasmodic dysphonia are found most often in people between 30 and 50 years of age.
Spasmodic dysphonia: A disorder that involves the muscles of the throat that control speech. Spasmodic dysphonia causes strained and difficult speaking or breathy and effortful speech. Also known as spastic dysphonia, laryngeal dystonia, adductor spasmodic dysphonia, and abductor spasmodic dysphonia. 