In order to restart the flow of current the MCB is manually turned on. This mechanism is used to protect from the faults arising due to over current or over load. To protect against fault arising due to over heating or increase in temperature a bi-metallic strip is used. MCBs are generally designed to trip within 2.5 millisecond when an over current fault arises. In case of temperature rise or over heating it may take 2 seconds to 2 minutes for the MCB to trip. This article covers the insight of a single pole MCB commonly used in the house hol
The MCB-Miniature Circuit Breaker. An MCB is a form of fuse (protective device) which overcomes the traditional problem associated with fuses in so much as when one blows it does not need to be replaced as a fuse does or in older fuses, the wire does not need replacing. MCB's operate when they sense an overload, or over current, and become an automatic switch, turning off, or tripping, the MCB when it detects such an overload.
Miniature circuit breakers or MCBs are used to replace fuses that protect individual pieces of electrical equipment and the circuits which supply them with power. In the cas … e of tripping because of a current overload, MCBs are very easy to reset, which is much simpler to do that having to replace blown fuses. It is a miniature electrical circuit breaker designed to protect a circuit that normally carries up to 20 amps of current. The following information was taken from the Relat … ed link shown below.   * Type B devices are generally suitable for domestic applications.
In simple terms MCB is a switch which automatically turns off when the current flowing through it passes the maximum allowable limit. Generally MCB are designed to protect against over current and over temperature faults (over heating). There are two contacts one is fixed and the other moveable. MCBs are generally designed to trip within 2.5 millisecond when an over current fault arises. In case of temperature rise or over heating it may take 2 seconds to 2 minutes for the MCB to trip. This article covers the insight of a single pole MCB commonly used in the house hold
The MCB has some advantages compared to fuse. 1. It automatically switches off the electrical circuit during abnormal condition of the network means in over load condition as well as faulty condition. The fuse does not sense but miniature circuit breaker does it in more reliable way. MCB is much more sensitive to over current than fuse. 2. Another advantage is, as the switch operating knob comes at its off position during tripping, the faulty zone of the electrical circuit can easily be identified.
The RCD-Residual Current Device. An RCD is a similar protective device which is different to an MCB in two ways. Firstly it is connected to both the live and neutral wires in the consumer unit making it a double pole switch, whereas the MCB is only connected to the live side of the circuit. MCB's operate when they sense an overload, or over current, and become an automatic switch, turning off, or tripping, the MCB when it detects such an overload.
The overcurrent, in an electrical circuit, may result from short circuit, overload or faulty design. An MCB is a better alternative to a Fuse since it does not require replacement once an overload is detected. MCBs are generally designed to trip within 2.5 millisecond when an over current fault arises. In case of temperature rise or over heating it may take 2 seconds to 2 minutes for the MCB to trip. This article covers the insight of a single pole MCB commonly used in the house hol
A Miniature Circuit Breaker or MCB works as a normal electrical circuit breaker but is a much smaller device. As well as electro-mechanical relay technology it includes electronic circuitry to achieve its small overall size. It is a miniature electrical circuit breaker designed to protect a circuit that normally carries up to 20 amps of current. The following information was taken from the Relat … ed link shown below.   * Type B devices are generally suitable for domestic applications.
Been an electrician for 47 years. The definition of MCB is a miniature circuit breaker, it trips if there is a line to natural fault. Ill add some extra information about the different types. you see the rcd's control 5 circuits each, if 1 of these circuits had an earth fault on it, the rcd will trip and 5 of them circuits will go off, which means you have to keep tripping in you're rcd with an mcb 1 at a time to see which circuit the fault is on.