In the 1995 movie The Mangler, based on a fantastical short horror story by author Stephen King, a large industrial mangle (that is possessed by a demon) claims many victims' lives to satisfy its blood lust. A hand-cranked mangle appeared on top after 1843 when John E. Turnbull of Saint John, New Brunswick patented a Clothes Washer With Wringer Rolls.. The first geared wringer mangle in the UK is thought to date to about 1850, when one was invented by Robert Tasker of Lancashire.
1 Mangle has a rare chance to be active on Night 1, similarly to Foxy from the first game. 2  However, unlike the first game, it isn't dictated by player inactivity, rather by chance. 3  Mangle, along with its original counterpart Foxy, BB and The Puppet are the only main animatronics who don't appear in the main menu. 1 Mangle is the only animatronic based on a character from the original lineup who is not referred to as a Toy.. 2  It may have been called Toy Foxy at one point before it was mutilated and redubbed The Mangle. 3  When Mangle is in Kid's Cove, an eyeball is visible about a foot away from it on the floor.
, to maim; see mayhem .]. man′gler n. Synonyms: mangle, maim 1, maul, mutilate. These verbs mean to cause severe injury or damage: machinery that mangled the worker's fingers; a construction worker maimed in an accident; a hiker mauled by a hungry bear; soldiers mutilated by shrapnel. tr.v. man·gled, man·gling, man·gles. 1. To mutilate or disfigure by battering, hacking, cutting, or tearing: fishing nets that mangle fish. 2. To ruin or spoil through ineptitude or ignorance: mangle a speech. [Middle English.
The sounds Mangle makes when it moves. Mangle (sometimes referred to as The Mangle or Toy Foxy) is one of the new animatronics and one of the antagonists in the game Five Nights at Freddy's 2. It is the redesigned version of Foxy. 1 Mangle is the only animatronic based on a character from the original lineup who is not referred to as a Toy.. 2  It may have been called Toy Foxy at one point before it was mutilated and redubbed The Mangle. 3  When Mangle is in Kid's Cove, an eyeball is visible about a foot away from it on the floor.
noun. verb. The definition of a mangle is a machine with rollers which is used to press large smooth pieces of cloth. An example of a mangle is a machine in a cleaners which is used to iron sheets. Mangle is defined as to destroy by tearing, crushing or bruising. An example of to mangle is to violently cut apart a wired fence. 
Mangle appears to have no endoskeleton torso, and it appears to be almost entirely made out of endoskeleton limbs. Wires hang from multiple parts of the body. There are also three eyes of its multiple-endoskeleton-like body to be seen when Mangle is in the Kid's Cove. Unlike the original Foxy, Mangle's nose has been reduced in size. The eyepatch and hook that were part of Foxy's appearance are removed entirely for Mangle as well. Like the redesign for Bonnie, Chica, and Freddy, Mangle bears a resemblance to the look of a ventriloquist's dummy.
Mangle appears to have no endoskeleton torso, and it appears to be almost entirely made out of endoskeleton limbs. Wires hang from multiple parts of its body. There are also three eyes of its multiple-endoskeleton-like body to be seen when Mangle is in the Kid's Cove. 1 Mangle is the only animatronic based on a character from the original lineup who is not referred to as a Toy.. 2  It may have been called Toy Foxy at one point before it was mutilated and redubbed The Mangle. 3  When Mangle is in Kid's Cove, an eyeball is visible about a foot away from it on the floor.
Rhizophora mangle, known as the red mangrove, is distributed in estuarine ecosystems throughout the tropics. Its viviparous seeds, in actuality called propagules, become fully mature plants before dropping off the parent tree. These are dispersed by water until eventually embedding in the shallows. As a viviparous plant, R. mangle creates a propagule that is in reality a living tree. Though resembling an elongated seed pod, the fully-grown propagule on the mangrove is capable of rooting and producing a new tree. The trees are hermaphrodites, capable of self pollination or wind pollination.
A mangle (as it is called in the United Kingdom) or wringer (as it is called in the United States) is a mechanical laundry aid consisting of two rollers in a sturdy frame, connected by cogs and, in its home version, powered by a hand crank or electrically. A hand-cranked mangle appeared on top after 1843 when John E. Turnbull of Saint John, New Brunswick patented a Clothes Washer With Wringer Rolls.. The first geared wringer mangle in the UK is thought to date to about 1850, when one was invented by Robert Tasker of Lancashire.
Rhizophora mangle grows on aerial prop roots, which arch above the water level, giving stands of this tree the characteristic  mangrove  appearance. It is a valuable plant in Florida, Louisiana, and Texas coastal ecosystems. As a viviparous plant, R. mangle creates a propagule that is in reality a living tree. Though resembling an elongated seed pod, the fully-grown propagule on the mangrove is capable of rooting and producing a new tree. The trees are hermaphrodites, capable of self pollination or wind pollination.