Drywall Average Costs. 1  For drywall hanging alone (no taping) on a large job (50+ sheets), expect to pay $.30 to $.60 per square foot. 2  With taping, professional drywall installation costs closer to $1.00 per square foot and as much as $1.50 per square foot. 3  These prices don’t include the cost of drywall (see below). 1 These prices assume extensive drywall installation (throughout the home or in multiple rooms). 2  Smaller jobs, however (less than 40-50 sheets), aren’t cost effective by the square foot and could run as much as $60 to $80 per hour.
Drywall prices per sheet. As it stands at the moment, the average drywall prices for a sheet of 1/4″ x 8′ x 4′ is sitting somewhere around the $8 per sheet range, which is something of a bargain when you consider that prices were as high as double that amount just a few short years ago. Bottom line – price usually ranges from $25 to $60 per sheet to hang and finish, or roughly $1 per square foot, not including drywall prices. You’ll want to have the job done properly, as nothing looks worse than a wall that is poorly finished, except perhaps for the gaping hole that appears when you fall through it.
All dried joint compound shall be flat, smooth and free of tool marks and ridges. Note that surface texturing or skim coating is NOT included in this estimate. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Drywall ranges between $1.43 - $1.76 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Drywall Installation-Average Cost Per Square Foot. Expect to pay in the high end of the estimated price range for a licensed, bonded and insured contractor and for complex or rush projects. Hire carefully, only after verifying prior work quality.
Cost of new drywall or gypsum panels installation calculated per sheet (4’ x 8’) as its manufactured dimensions or estimated as a charge per square foot. Every remodeling project associated with small drywall repair priced base on work complexity, time spent, and hourly rate of a drywall installer. Average cost of a new drywall to get installed will vary from $41.5 to $60.0 per 4'x8'x5/8 sheet including labor and materials or from $1.30 to $1.88 per square foot. Labor cost estimated as a charge per 8’ x 4’ sheet accounting basic installation and finishing of minimum 120 gypsum boards excluding any preparation work.
Hence, the cost-per-sheet. You can pay for anywhere from $25 a sheet ($12.50 to hang, and $12.50 to finish) on the cheaper side, on up the scale to as much as $60 a sheet to finish drywall for the pricier projects such as wide arches, vaulted ceilings, etc. Using this type of method to determine drywall install and finish costs is pretty common in the new construction industry, but does have a place within large remodeling projects as well. Installing and finishing drywall will cost around 85¢ to $1.15 per sq.ft. for drywall prices, with an average of about $1 per sq.ft. You should expect to pay, however, about $30/sheet for a decent quality hanging and finishing job
1 For drywall hanging alone (no taping) on a large job (50+ sheets), expect to pay $.30 to $.60 per square foot. 2  With taping, professional drywall installation costs closer to $1.00 per square foot and as much as $1.50 per square foot. 3  These prices don’t include the cost of drywall (see below). 1 These prices assume extensive drywall installation (throughout the home or in multiple rooms). 2  Smaller jobs, however (less than 40-50 sheets), aren’t cost effective by the square foot and could run as much as $60 to $80 per hour.
1 Drywall materials (drywall sheets plus screws or nails, joint compound, tape, etc.) average 25 cents - 65 cents a square foot; professional installation is an additional 85 cents -$1.50 per square foot. 