Medical Definition of REGULATORY GENE. : a gene that regulates the expression of one or more structural genes by controlling the production of a protein (as a genetic repressor) which regulates their rate of transcription. regulatory gene or regulator gene. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : a gene that regulates the expression of one or more structural genes by ....
noun. The modulation of any of the stages of gene expression, hence, it encompasses the various systems that control and determine which genes are switched on and off, and when, how long, and to what extent the genes are expressed. Gene regulation of the lac operon of the prokaryotes was the first genetic regulatory mechanism to be elucidated. Variant: regulation of gene expression or gene regulation.
Gene regulation is the process of turning genes on and off. During early development, cells begin to take on specific functions. Gene regulation ensures that the appropriate genes are expressed at the proper times. Gene regulation can also help an organism respond to its environment. Gene regulation is accomplished by a variety of mechanisms including chemically modifying genes and using regulatory proteins to turn genes on or off. Definition from: Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms from the National Human Genome Research Institute
Gene regulation. Definition. noun. The modulation of any of the stages of gene expression, hence, it encompasses the various systems that control and determine which genes are switched on and off, and when, how long, and to what extent the genes are expressed. Supplement. Gene regulation may occur in the following stages of gene expression :
Diagram showing at which stages in the DNA-mRNA-protein pathway expression can be controlled. Regulation of gene expression includes a wide range of mechanisms that are used by cells to increase or decrease the production of specific gene products (protein or RNA), and is informally termed gene regulation. 1 Repressors bind to the Operator, coding sequences on the DNA strand that are close to or overlapping the promoter region, impeding RNA polymerase's progress along the strand, thus impeding the expression of the gene.The image to the right demonstrates regulation by a repressor in the lac operon.
Definition. Gene regulation is the informal term used to describe any mechanism used by a cell to increase or decrease the production of specific gene products (protein or RNA). Cells can modify their gene expression patterns to trigger developmental pathways, respond to environmental stimuli, or adapt to new food sources. An example is the sigma factors used in prokaryotic transcription. 2. All genes have an upstream coding sequence called an operator. Repressor proteins can bind to an operator region and inhibit the ability of RNA polymerase to transcribe the gene. This causes decreased expression of a gene. 3.
Gene expression regulation. Definition. noun. The modulation of any of the stages of gene expression, hence, it encompasses the various systems that control and determine which genes are switched on and off, and when, how long, and to what extent the genes are expressed. Supplement. Gene regulation of the lac operon of the prokaryotes was the first genetic regulatory mechanism to be elucidated. Variant: regulation of gene expression or gene
Enhancer sequences are regulatory DNA sequences that, when bound by specific proteins called transcription factors, enhance the transcription of an associated gene. 
Gene expression. Gene expression is the process by which the genetic code-the nucleotide sequence-of a gene is used to direct protein synthesis and produce the structures of the cell. Genes that code for amino acid sequences are known as 'structural genes'. The process of gene expression involves two main stages:
Definition of Gene Expression. A gene is a small piece of genetic material written in a code and called DNA. Each gene has within it a set of instructions for making molecules that organisms need to survive. Genes themselves cannot be used by an organism. 