Some household products use enzymes to speed up chemical reactions: enzymes in biological washing powders break down protein, starch or fat stains on clothes, and enzymes in meat tenderizer break down proteins into smaller molecules, making the meat easier to chew. An uncompetitive inhibitor cannot bind to the free enzyme, only to the enzyme-substrate complex; hence, these types of inhibitors are most effective at high substrate concentration. In the presence of the inhibitor, the enzyme-substrate complex is inactive. This type of inhibition is rare.
Types of enzymes. Each enzyme can usually only be the catalyst for a single reaction. For example, the enzyme maltase is the catalyst for changing maltose into glucose. Notice that the name of the enzyme is usually very similar to the substance it works on: maltase works on maltose. Enzymes have the ending-ase.
Digestive enzymes are enzymes that break down food into usable material. The major different types of digestive enzymes are: • amylase – breaks down carbohydrates, starches, and sugars which are prevalent in potatoes, fruits, vegetables, and many snack foods. Specific enzymes work on specific foods. You need the right type of enzyme for the foods you want it to break down. Think of the foods you have problems with and then choose a product that contains at least those types of enzymes. Here is a list of the common enzyme types and foods they act on.
Enzymes /ˈɛnzaɪmz/ are macromolecular biological catalysts. Enzymes accelerate, or catalyze, chemical reactions. The molecules at the beginning of the process are called substrates and the enzyme converts these into different molecules, called products. An uncompetitive inhibitor cannot bind to the free enzyme, only to the enzyme-substrate complex; hence, these types of inhibitors are most effective at high substrate concentration. In the presence of the inhibitor, the enzyme-substrate complex is inactive. This type of inhibition is rare.
The types of enzymes that are produced by the body are metabolic and digestive enzymes. Uses of enzymes vary depending on the enzyme structure but one thing is for sure is that the benefits of digestive enzymes and metabolic enzymes outweigh the cost. There are three types and uses of enzymes that maintain living organisms: 1  Metabolic Enzymes – These enzymes are primarily in charge of energy production in the body. 2  They also help to detox the body on a cellular level and are even help our sensory system respond appropriately.
Types of digestive enzymes. 1  proteases and peptidases split proteins into amino acids. 2  lipases split fat into fatty acids and glycerol. 3  carbohydrases split carbohydrates such as starch and sugars into simple sugars such as glucose. 4  nucleases split nucleic acids into nucleotides. 
1 The body uses different types of enzymes to digest fats, proteins and carbohydrates for instance. 2  For more information, click here. 3  Food Enzymes which primarily come from plants. 4  Our body does not make these enzymes, but they are contained in the food we are eating so our body can break down the food. There are three types and uses of enzymes that maintain living organisms: 1  Metabolic Enzymes – These enzymes are primarily in charge of energy production in the body. 2  They also help to detox the body on a cellular level and are even help our sensory system respond appropriately.
Bond specificity is also called as relative specificity. Enzymes showing bond specificity are specific to substrates having similar bonds and similar structure. This means that they are specific only to certain types of bonds such as peptide bonds, glycosidic bonds, ester bonds etc. Example: α-amylase enzyme can hydrolyze α-1-4 glycosidic linkage in starch and glycogen, i.e., the enzyme is specific only to α-1-4 glycosidic bond and not to the substrate. Enzymes showing substrate specificity are specific only to one substrate and one reaction. Example: Enzyme lactase can only hydrolyze the β-1-4 glycosidic bond of lactose to yield galactose and glucose. Similarly, Maltase can only act on the α-1-4 glycosidic linkage of two glucose molecules in maltose.