The Wage Rate Schedule is also known as prevailing wages for public construction work or “Little Davis-Bacon” wages for the purposes of Chapter 104, Hawaii Revised Statutes. The prevailing wage is the basic hourly rate and the cost to an employer of providing a laborer or mechanic with fringe benefits. A contractor must pay the minimum prevailing wages on State or county public works construction projects in excess of $2,000.
Excavation Prices. Excavation can cost a variety of prices. It is very difficult to pin down specific costs for this because it is so area specific. It could cost $85 to $125 per hour for residential excavation work. That is, if you can find someone to do a job by the hour. It may be difficult to find someone willing to work on an hourly rate.
Ditto on the sixty an hour for labor, but realistically your hourly rate depends on how bad you want work these days.
1 Although most excavation companies hire out a machine and operator on an hourly basis ($40-$150 or more an hour) for a wide variety or work, they typically bid on residential excavation for the entire project based on the number of yards of dirt to be moved.
In its simplest case, if you rented a tractor with operator for $60 per hour-including all fuel and other costs-and you excavated 100 cubic meters per hour, your unit cost for excavation would be $0.60 per cubic meter. The hourly cost of the tractor with operator is called the machine rate.
I'm frequently asked for the industry standard rate per hour for various types of work. Well, just like there isn't an industry standard markup, there isn't an industry standard hourly rate. I'll often use $40/hour or $75/hour in our articles, but that's not an industry standard, it's an example.
Example: You have an employee you are paying $20 an hour. You charge them out at $20 x 2.6, or $52 an hour. Or, take the same employee at $20 an hour and add the labor burden at 1.35 (or whatever your labor burden is-in some areas, like California, the rate is closer to 1.48). That makes their total cost $27/hour.