While Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic was reviewing Prince Of Egypt OST, he called this duet unexpected -- and unexpectedly dull.. Paul Verna of Billboard called When You Believe a high-powered duet, and later highlighted the song while reviewing Houston's album. Schwartz's original version was titled When You Believe, while Edmonds' enhanced version was titled The Prince of Egypt (When You Believe). When You Believe is a slow tempo ballad, which incorporates pop and contemporary R&B genres.
Soundtrack and When You Believe Recordings. BUY IN USA: 1998 soundtrack for The Prince of Egypt. BUY IN EUROPE: The Prince of Egypt Ost. Includes When You Believe, Deliver Us/River Lullaby, All I Ever Wanted, Through Heaven's Eyes, Playing with the Big Boys, The Plagues. Mp3s of Prince of Egypt songs-Enjoy many versions of popular songs When You Believe, Through Heaven's Eyes and other songs. Celtic Woman sings When You Believe - music and lyrics by Stephen Schwartz Songs From The Heart. Mariah Carey 1's-Includes When You Believe. Leon Jackson-Xfactor When You Believe
The Prince of Egypt is an adaptation of the Biblical story of The Exodus. When You Believe is sung in the film by characters Tzipporah and Miriam, and a chorus of people departing from the slavery of Egypt to the Red Sea and the Promised Land. Schwartz's original version was titled When You Believe, while Edmonds' enhanced version was titled The Prince of Egypt (When You Believe). When You Believe is a slow tempo ballad, which incorporates pop and contemporary R&B genres.
When You Believe  is a song from the 1998 DreamWorks musical animated feature The Prince of Egypt. Schwartz's original version was titled When You Believe, while Edmonds' enhanced version was titled The Prince of Egypt (When You Believe). When You Believe is a slow tempo ballad, which incorporates pop and contemporary R&B genres.
You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin. Show HTML View more styles. Test your knowledge of When You Believe: Music from 'The Prince of Egypt'. 
Towards the end of the video, clips of the film are projected onto a large screen at the concert, while they belt out the final verse. The alternate video was only released on NBC 's special, When You Believe: Music Inspired by the Prince of Egypt, broadcast on December 13, 1998. Schwartz's original version was titled When You Believe, while Edmonds' enhanced version was titled The Prince of Egypt (When You Believe). When You Believe is a slow tempo ballad, which incorporates pop and contemporary R&B genres.
When You Believe is the Official Movie Soundtrack of Prince of Egypt. In the film, this song of inspiration is performed by the characters Tzipporah (Michelle Pfeiffer) and Miriam (sung by Sally Dworsky). 
More. To the 1998 animation features including Antz (1998), A Bug's Life (1998), Mulan (1998), and The Prince of Egypt (1998). For the song The Prince Of Egypt (When You Believe)
Music is composed by Hans Zimmer and sang by Michelle Pfeiffer and Sally Dworsky. The picture belongs to the original owners.  1 When You Believe by Whitney Houston (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 2  Music. 