Factors that increase the risk of prostate cancer include: older age, a family history of the disease, and race. About 99% of cases occur in those over the age of 50. Having a first degree relative with the disease increases the risk 2 to 3 fold. People with low grade disease (Gleason 2-4) were unlikely to die of prostate cancer within 15 years of diagnosis. Older men (age 70-75) with low grade disease had an approximately 20% overall survival at 15 years due to deaths from competing causes.
Prostate cancer is cancer that occurs in a man's prostate — a small walnut-shaped gland that produces the seminal fluid that nourishes and transports sperm. Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in men. While some types of prostate cancer grow slowly and may need minimal or no treatment, other types are aggressive and can spread quickly. Prostate cancer that is detected early — when it's still confined to the prostate gland — has a better chance of successful treatment. 1  Symptoms.
Most people with prostate cancer do not end up dying from the disease. The five year survival rate in the United States is 99%. Globally it is the second most common type of cancer and the fifth leading cause of cancer-related death in men. People with low grade disease (Gleason 2-4) were unlikely to die of prostate cancer within 15 years of diagnosis. Older men (age 70-75) with low grade disease had an approximately 20% overall survival at 15 years due to deaths from competing causes.
Although there is no cure for advanced prostate cancer, it is often treatable. Many men outlive their prostate cancer, even those with advanced disease. Often, the prostate cancer grows slowly, and there are now effective treatment options that extend life even further. For most patients, a diagnosis of metastatic cancer is very stressful and, at times, difficult to bear. For men diagnosed with early-stage prostate cancer, local treatments, such as surgery or radiation therapy, may get rid of the cancer completely. However, if the cancer has spread outside the prostate gland, other types of treatment may be needed to destroy cancer cells located in other parts of the body.
Prostate cancer, a sometimes fatal disease, usually causes few symptoms unless it has spread to other parts of the body, such as the bones. It is easily curable in its early stages. It is extremely common in older men, and many have undetected prostate cancer for many years, eventually dying of unrelated conditions. For men under the age of 50, prostatitis (inflammation of the prostate) is the most common prostate disease. It may be caused by a bacterial infection or have no identifiable cause. Either way, it can produce severe pain, burning, and disability. Prostatitis occurs in older men, as well, but is less common.
Cancer is a disease in which cells in the body grow out of control. When cancer starts in the prostate, it is called prostate cancer. Many men with prostate cancer—especially those with tumors that have not spread beyond the prostate—die of other causes without ever having any symptoms from the cancer. Except for skin cancer, prostate cancer is the most common cancer in American men
1 Prostate cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the prostate. 2  Signs of prostate cancer include a weak flow of urine or frequent urination. 3  Tests that examine the prostate and blood are used to detect (find) and diagnose prostate cancer. Prostate cancer that has spread to the bone and certain types of hormone therapy can weaken bones and lead to bone pain. Treatments for bone pain include the following: 1  Pain medicine. 2  External radiation therapy. 3  Strontium-89 (a radioisotope). 4  Targeted therapy with a monoclonal antibody, such as denosumab.
Prostate cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the prostate. The prostate is a gland in the male reproductive system. It lies just below the bladder (the organ that collects and empties urine) and in front of the rectum (the lower part of the intestine). Prostate cancer that has spread to the bone and certain types of hormone therapy can weaken bones and lead to bone pain. Treatments for bone pain include the following: 1  Pain medicine. 2  External radiation therapy. 3  Strontium-89 (a radioisotope). 4  Targeted therapy with a monoclonal antibody, such as denosumab.
Prostate cancer is a cancer that starts in the prostate gland. Cancer causes cells in the body to change and grow out of control. Most types of cancer form a lump or a growth called a tumor. If there is a cancerous tumor in the prostate, a man may not know it. Most cases of prostate cancer develop very slowly.
Prostate cancer, also known as carcinoma of the prostate, is the development of cancer in the prostate, a gland in the male reproductive system. Most prostate cancers are slow growing; however, some grow relatively quickly. People with low grade disease (Gleason 2-4) were unlikely to die of prostate cancer within 15 years of diagnosis. Older men (age 70-75) with low grade disease had an approximately 20% overall survival at 15 years due to deaths from competing causes.