Neem, also called Azadirachta indica is an aboriginal tree found in tropical and semi-tropical countries like Burma and India; Neem has been declared non-toxic to humans and each part of the tree is used as an active ingredient in different industries. Neem Uses: Neem is known as the Wonder Tree for its multiple uses. Neem leaves, oil, and neem extracts are used to produce a wide range of medicinal and beauty care products. Neem oil has insecticidal and medicinal properties due to which it has been used in pest control, cosmetics, medicines, etc.
Neem oil, also called neem seed oil or neem tree oil, is the oil pressed from the seed kernels of the neem tree. Neem is a tropical, evergreen tree that originated in India. Neem tree fruit looks a bit like olives. It contains one seed, which in turn can have one or several kernels. Oil is produced by crushing and pressing the kernels, and then purifying the extract. 
Azadirachta indica, also known as Neem, Nimtree, and Indian Lilac is a tree in the mahogany family Meliaceae. It is one of two species in the genus Azadirachta, and is native to India and the Indian subcontinent including Nepal, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. It is typically grown in tropical and semi-tropical regions. Neem trees now also grow in islands located in the southern part of Iran. The tender shoots and flowers of the neem tree are eaten as a vegetable in India. A souplike dish called Veppampoo charu (Tamil) (translated as neem flower rasam ) made of the flower of neem is prepared in Tamil Nadu. In West Bengal, young neem leaves are fried in oil with tiny pieces of eggplant (brinjal).
1 Trees in the USA: Identifiable Characteristics of Neem Trees The Neem or Azadirachta indica tree is a native of India, where it is revered for its antimicrobial properties. 2  A member of the tropical mahogany family, it's not rare to see…. Edit. Share to: 1  Identifiable Characteristics of a Neem Tree The neem tree is a common tropical tree in the countries of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and certain parts of Iran, as well as other areas in the Middle East, South Asia and A….
In India, neem is known as the village pharmacy because of its healing versatility, and it has been used in Ayurvedic medicine for more than 4,000 years due to its medicinal properties. Neem is also called arista in Sanskrit-a word that means perfect, complete and imperishable. The seeds, bark and leaves contain compounds with proven antiseptic, antiviral, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, anti-ulcer and antifungal uses.
1 The brain and the nerv…. 2  Trees in the USA: Identifiable Characteristics of Neem Trees The Neem or Azadirachta indica tree is a native of India, where it is revered for its antimicrobial properties. Edit. Share to: 1  Identifiable Characteristics of a Neem Tree The neem tree is a common tropical tree in the countries of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and certain parts of Iran, as well as other areas in the Middle East, South Asia and A….
Azadirachta indica. Neem (Azadirachta indica) is a tree in the mahogany family Meliaceae. It is native to Ind ia, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Malaysia and Pakistan. It grows in tropical and semi-tropical regions. It was once the state tree of Osmanistan. Neem is a fast-growing tree that can reach up to 15–20 m (about 50–65 feet) tall, and sometimes even to 35–40 m (115–131 feet). It is evergreen, but in serious drought it may lose most or nearly all of its leaves.