Technical Recruiter Salary. Technical Recruiter average salary is $46,025, median salary is $44,741 with a salary range from $20,176 to $334,326. Technical Recruiter salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Technical Recruiter salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Technical Recruiter salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Technical Recruiter in the United States is $76,695 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter in the United States are expected to make less than $76,695. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Bonus. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Technical Recruiter may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter are expected to make less than the median.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Technical Recruiter in the United States is $69,470, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter in the United States are expected to make less than $69,470. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter are expected to make less than the median.
(India). The average salary for a Technical Recruiter is Rs 223,600 per year. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Negotiation and screening. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 10 years in this career. Drag job titles to investigate a particular path and click on a link to see where particular career can lead. Plan your career path
(United States). The average pay for a Technical Recruiter is $45,357 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 10 years in this career. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Information Technology (IT) Support and Full-Cycle Recruiting. $30,672 - $75,318
$ 84000 average technical recruiter salaries for job postings in seattle wa are 8 % higher than average technical recruiter salaries for job postings nationwide 
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter in Washington, DC that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Technical Recruiter in Washington are expected to make less than the median. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.