The Cassiopeia constellation is visible in the northern sky and looks like a giant “W” or “M”. It’s stars are bright and it is very easy to spot. It sits at the opposite end of the Big Dipper in relation to Polaris.
Cassiopeia is a constellation in the northern hemisphere, first charted by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century. It is taken to represent the queen Cassiopeia of the mythical kingdom Ethiopia. In Greek mythology, Cassiopeia offended the Nereids (sea nymphs) by boasting about being more beautiful than them.
The neighboring constellations are Andromeda, Camelopardalis, Cepheus, Lacerta, and Perseus. Cassiopeia has three stars with known planets and contains two Messier objects: M103 (NGC 581) and M52 (NGC 7654). The brightest star in the constellation is Schedar, Alpha Cassiopeiae.
It was named after Cassiopeia, the vain and boastful queen in Greek mythology. The constellation was first catalogued by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century. It is easily recognizable in the sky because of its distinctive W shape.
Cassiopeia was the beautiful wife of Cepheus, king of Ethiopia, and the mother of Andromeda. She is most famous in connection with the myth of her daughter, Andromeda. The queen made the mistake of bragging she was more lovely than the Nereids, or even than Juno herself.
1 Cassiopeia is visible all year in the Northern hemisphere. 2  The constellation is visible in some northerly regions of the Southern hemisphere in late spring. 3  The combination of its simple 'w' shape and the brightness of its stars makes Cassiopeia one of the most easily recognizable constellations in the night sky.
The mythological queen Cassiopeia floats overhead in fall and winter. The best time to see her is in late fall, when she stands high in the northeastern sky during the evening hours. Cassiopeia looks like a flattened W against the frothy background of our home galaxy, the Milky Way.
Cassiopeia belongs to the Perseus family of constellations, along with Andromeda, Auriga, Cepheus, Cetus, Lacerta, Pegasus, Perseus, and Triangulum. MYTH. In mythology, Cassiopeia was the wife of King Cepheus (represented by the neighbouring constellation Cepheus in the sky) of Ethiopia.
The Queen. Cassiopeia was the beautiful wife of Cepheus, king of Ethiopia, and the mother of Andromeda. She is most famous in connection with the myth of her daughter, Andromeda. The queen made the mistake of bragging she was more lovely than the Nereids, or even than Juno herself.