A stalk links the pituitary to the hypothalamus, which controls release of pituitary hormones. The pituitary gland has two lobes: the anterior and posterior lobes. The anterior pituitary is glandular. The endocrine system in females and males. Hormones | Back to Top. The endocrine system is a collection of glands that secrete chemical messages we call hormones. These signals are passed through the blood to arrive at a target organ, which has cells possessing the appropriate receptor.
1 The endocrine system is made up of a network of glands. 2  These glands secrete hormones to regulate many bodily functions, including growth and metabolism. 3  Endocrine diseases are common and usually occur when glands produce an incorrect amount of hormones. The Endocrine System Essentials. 1 
The secretion of hormones from the anterior pituitary is controlled by the production of hormones by the hypothalamus. Although there are a number of different hormones they can be split into two main types: 1  hormones that tell the pituitary to switch on production of a hormone (a releasing hormone). Hormones produced by other glands in the body. In total more than 200 hormones or hormone-like substances have been discovered. In addition to the hormones listed in the table above, five of these hormones are controlled by hormones released by the pituitary.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone, also known as thyrotropin, is secreted from cells in the anterior pituitary called thyrotrophs, finds its receptors on epithelial cells in the thyroid gland, and stimulates that gland to synthesize and release thyroid hormones. The most important controller of TSH secretion is thyroid-releasing hormone. Thyroid-releasing hormone is secreted by hypothalamic neurons into hypothalamic-hypophyseal portal blood, finds its receptors on thyrotrophs in the anterior pituitary and stimulates secretion of TSH.
Neurons of the hypothalamus synthesize and secrete two hormones, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) and oxytocin. The cell bodies of these neurons are found in two nuclei of the hypothalamus and have axons that descend along a thin stalk of tissue called the infundibulum and end in the posterior pituitary gland. 
Adrenal glands work interactively with the hypothalamus and pituitary gland in the brain. For example, for the adrenal gland to produce corticosteroid hormones: The hypothalamus produces corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) that stimulates the pituitary gland to produce adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). The ACTH stimulates the adrenal glands to make and release corticosteroid hormones into the blood. Both the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland can sense whether the blood has the right amount of an adrenal hormone (cortisol) in it.
Endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products, hormones, directly into the blood rather than through a duct. The major glands of the endocrine system include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testes, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus and adrenal glands. The hypothalamus and pituitary gland are neuroendocrine organs. 
Stress induces a release of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and vasopressin from the hypothalamus, which activates the release of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) from the anterior pituitary gland. Then, this acts on the adrenal cortex to produce glucocorticoids such as cortisol. Hypothalamic Control. Hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary gland is regulated by releasing hormones secreted by the hypothalamus. Neuroendocrine cells in the hypothalamus project axons to the median eminence, at the base of the brain.