According to Allina Health, a person should not drink alcohol for at least 24 hours after having general anesthesia. In addition, if the patient is still on prescription pain medicine after that period, no alcohol should be consumed. Know More.
Answer: Most guidelines recommend that patients avoid alcohol for between 12 and 24 hours after any form of anesthesia or sedation. At 12 hours it is likely, assuming you are healthy and short-acting agents were used, that your body will largely have eliminated the drugs.
Answer: Alcohol and other intoxicants can interact with anesthesia drugs to increase the effect of one or the other or both. If you've just had anesthesia, the effect of a drink of alcohol is likely to be greater than it would have been under normal circumstances. In other words you are more likely to become intoxicated.
I have had anesthesia for a inguinal hernia and have a general decrease in food taste. In addition alcohol effects are increased.
It is best to avoid any unnecessary drugs prior to having anesthesia. This would include marijuana, alcohol, and others. The drugs may interact with the anesthesia medicine in your system and could cause side-effects, so best to avoid anything not prescribed.
The standard advice is not to drink alcohol or take any other intoxicants for 24 hours after your anesthesia. Alcohol and other intoxicants can interact with anesthesia drugs to increase the effect of one or the other or both. If you've just had anesthesia, the effect of a drink of alcohol is likely to be greater than it would have been under normal circumstances. In other words you are more likely to become intoxicated.
(This is my suspicious nature coming through!). Most guidelines recommend that patients avoid alcohol for between 12 and 24 hours after any form of anesthesia or sedation. At 12 hours it is likely, assuming you are healthy and short-acting agents were used, that your body will largely have eliminated the drugs.
Go to the Anesthesia health topic, where you can: Most guidelines recommend that patients avoid alcohol for between 12 and 24 hours after any form of anesthesia or sedation. At 12 hours it is likely, assuming you are healthy and short-acting agents were used, that your body will largely have eliminated the drugs.