by Jed Greer and Kavaljit Singh. Transnational corporations are among the world's biggest economic institutions. A rough estimate suggests that the 300 largest TNCs own or control at least one-quarter of the entire world's productive assets, worth about US$5 trillion. The earliest historical origins of transnational corporations can be traced to the major colonising and imperialist ventures from Western Europe, notably England and Holland, which began in the 16th century and proceeded for the next several hundred years.
Its basic objective is to publish policy-oriented articles and research notes that provide insights into the economic, legal, social and cultural impacts of transnational corporations and foreign direct investment in an increasingly global economy and the policy implications that arise therefrom. 
Transnational corporations (TNCs) are incorporated or unincorporated enterprises comprising parent enterprises and their foreign affiliates. A parent enterprise is defined as an enterprise that controls assets of other entities in countries other than its home country, usually by owning a certain equity capital stake. An equity capital stake of 10 per cent or more of the ordinary shares or voting power for an incorporated enterprise, or its equivalent for an unincorporated enterprise, is normally considered as a threshold for the control of assets (in some countries, an equity stake other than that of 10 per cent is still used.
Any corporation that is registered and operates in more than one country at a time; also called a multinational corporation. A transnational, or multinational, corporation has its headquarters in one country and operates wholly or partially owned subsidiaries in one or more other countries. The subsidiaries report to the central headquarters. This dominance is most pronounced in the developing countries that rely primarily on a narrow range of exports, usually primary goods. A transnational corporation has the ability to disrupt traditional economies, impose monopolistic practices, and assert a political and economic agenda on a country.
However in 1993 none of the 100 largest corporations was the transnational corporation from developing countries or underdeveloped, while in the 2007 on the list appeared seven of them: three corporations from Korea, one form China, Hong Kong and Malaysia and Mexico. For example, the export of one transnational corporation’s affiliates in 2008 was accounted for one third of world exports. Furthermore, the number of people employed by multinational corporations grew rapidly in. 2008 amounted to 77 million people, which is twice than the all workforce in Germany (see. table3).
A corporation that maintains assets and/or operations in more than one country. A multinational corporation often has a long supply chain that may, for example, require the acquisition of raw materials in one country, a product's manufacture in a second country, and its retail sale in a third country. A multinational often globally manages its operations from a main office in its home country.
However, has increased the importance of developing countries as a place of transnational corporations location. The reason for the increasing role of TNCs in developing countries is to increase of their number in: China and India. For example, the export of one transnational corporation’s affiliates in 2008 was accounted for one third of world exports. Furthermore, the number of people employed by multinational corporations grew rapidly in. 2008 amounted to 77 million people, which is twice than the all workforce in Germany (see. table3).
The world's transnational corporations account for two-thirds of the world trade in goods and services, and foreign direct investment, even though concentrated in a few South countries, has now superseded trade as the most important mechanism for international economic integration, says an UNCTAD report. Transnational corporations hold ninety percent of all technology and product patents worldwide, and are involved in 70 percent of world trade. More than thirty percent of this trade is “intra-firm”; in other words, it occurs between units of the same corporation.
The Transnationality Index (TNI) is a means of ranking multinational corporations that is employed by economists and politicians. It is calculated as the arithmetic mean of the following three ratios (where foreign means outside of the corporation's home country): 1  the ratio of foreign assets to total assets. For example, as of 2000, General Electric was the second largest multinational corporation in terms of foreign assert ownership. However, it ranked only 73rd by the TNI, with an index of only 40%.