FSIS is a separate and distinct agency independent from the FDA. FSIS is under the direction of the Department of Agriculture while the FDA is under the direction of the Department of Health and Human Services. FSIS derives its authority from the Federal Meat Inspection Act of 1906, the Poultry Products Inspection Act of 1957, and the Egg Products Inspection Act of 1970. FSIS inspects meat and poultry products to ensure that there is no misbranded or adulterated products being put into the stream of commerce.
The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is the public health agency in the U.S. Department of Agriculture responsible for ensuring that the nation's commercial supply of meat, poultry, and egg products is safe, wholesome, and correctly labeled and packaged. Consumer confidence in our food supply comes as a result of the work of the men and women of FSIS. Faces of Food Safety introduces you to employees who play a key role in making our food safe.
Agency History. This section notes milestones in FSIS' evolution, from the early days of USDA through passage of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) and other Acts to the creation of a modern science-based inspection system. Short URL for this page: http://www.fsis.usda.gov/aboutfsis. 1  About FSIS. Consumer confidence in our food supply comes as a result of the work of the men and women of FSIS. Faces of Food Safety introduces you to employees who play a key role in making our food safe.
The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), is the public health regulatory agency responsible for ensuring that that United States' commercial supply of meat, poultry, and egg products is safe, wholesome, and correctly labeled and packaged. FSIS derives its authority from the Federal Meat Inspection Act of 1906, the Poultry Products Inspection Act of 1957, and the Egg Products Inspection Act of 1970. FSIS inspects meat and poultry products to ensure that there is no misbranded or adulterated products being put into the stream of commerce.
Background. USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is responsible for ensuring that meat, poultry, and egg products are safe, wholesome, and properly labeled and packaged. Several commenters were concerned about the use of irradiation. A few noted that irradiated food is safe but faces a perception problem. A few want reindeer, meat rabbits, and bison to be amenable species (subject to mandatory inspection paid for by the Government).
Food products that are under the jurisdiction of the FSIS, and thus subject to inspection, are those that contain more than 3% meat or 2% poultry products, with several exceptions, and egg products (liquid, frozen or dried). FSIS derives its authority from the Federal Meat Inspection Act of 1906, the Poultry Products Inspection Act of 1957, and the Egg Products Inspection Act of 1970. FSIS inspects meat and poultry products to ensure that there is no misbranded or adulterated products being put into the stream of commerce.
The FSIS draws its authority from the Federal Meat Inspection Act of 1906, the Poultry Products Inspection Act of 1957 and the Egg Products Inspection Act of 1970. The FSIS also acts a national health department and is responsible for the safety of public food-related establishments as well as business investigation. FSIS derives its authority from the Federal Meat Inspection Act of 1906, the Poultry Products Inspection Act of 1957, and the Egg Products Inspection Act of 1970. FSIS inspects meat and poultry products to ensure that there is no misbranded or adulterated products being put into the stream of commerce.
The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is responsible for ensuring that meat, poultry and egg products are safe, wholesome, and accurately labeled. 1  FSIS Nutrition Labeling Information. 
An eAuthentication account provides access to a wide range of USDA applications including the FSIS AssuranceNet. Your eAuthentication account consists of a User ID, a password, and your profile. In addition to obtaining access to the FSIS AssuranceNet your eAuthentication Level 2 Account will also allow you to : 