1 On average, the CVS Minute Clinic ranges anywhere from $60 to as much as $100 for a walk-in session. 2  This is a session that will not include other things such as lab work, prescriptions and more. The cost of visiting this clinic will widely vary depending upon the tests that are being performed, your insurance provider, and other various factors. 1  On average, the CVS Minute Clinic ranges anywhere from $60 to as much as $100 for a walk-in session.
1 On average, a test can cost anywhere from $10 to $65 at a local health clinic or a lab. 2  These tests are commonly found at health departments, where anyone can get them for a very low rate. 3  A visit to your family doctor can see prices ranging anywhere from $75 to as much as $300. 1 A visit to your family doctor can see prices ranging anywhere from $75 to as much as $300. 2  Those with health insurance may find the insurance company covers most if not all of the test is. 3  Check with your local health insurance provider to see what is covered. 4  For example, MuskegonHealth.net gives out TB tests for $18
Cost for a TB test is currently $19 (subject to change). Medicaid can be billed for the cost of the test, otherwise the fee is due at the time of service. For more information on TB testing, please call the Immunization program at (231) 724-1220. Skin testing (PPD) for tuberculosis (TB) is available at the public health department. Testing is available Monday, Wednesday, and Friday between noon and 4:30 pm by appointment. Clients receiving a TB test must return to the public health department within 48-72 hours to have the test results checked.
1 51% - Where can i get a tb test at walgreens in tucson arizona? 2  17% - Wage for a walgreens shift lead position current job 785.00 a week 52 hours walgreens job would be 40 hours? 3  45% - How much does walgreens charge for a ts skin test in chicago? 4  71% - How much does it cost to visit the walgreens doc? 1 71% - How much does it cost to visit the walgreens doc? 2  64% - What does a physical examine cost at walgreens? 3  61% - How much should a prescription for adderall cost from walgreens? 4  60% - How much does it cost to get a physical at walgreens in philadelphia?
The cost of a TB test is going to depend on the doctor, location, and other factors. 1  On average, a test can cost anywhere from $10 to $65 at a local health clinic or a lab. 1 A visit to your family doctor can see prices ranging anywhere from $75 to as much as $300. 2  Those with health insurance may find the insurance company covers most if not all of the test is. 3  Check with your local health insurance provider to see what is covered. 4  For example, MuskegonHealth.net gives out TB tests for $18
1 The charge to high risk individuals for a TB skin test (PPD) is $10 (check or cash, no credit or debit cards), payable at the time of the test. 2  Persons with Medicaid do not have to pay for skin testing. 
Affordable health care in your neighborhood. You'll find the cash payment prices for our services below. We accept most insurance, too. If you will be using insurance, we recommend contacting your insurance company before your visit to be sure that the service you're seeking is covered. If you're uninsured or prefer to pay out of pocket, we welcome cash, checks and credit cards. Our charges vary based on the number of symptoms or conditions a patient has, and whether we provide more than one service.