Apollo was the Greek god of music and he occasionally drove the Sun around the Earth in his golden chariot to create the sunrise and sunset, when Helios, another Greek god, wa … s retired or on break. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by P32002121. Confidence votes 49.5K. In fact Apollo is the Latin form of the name, whereas the Greek form is Apollon.
It is known from Apollo, son of Zeus and Leto, and twin brother of Artemis in Greek mythology. He was the god of healing, archery, poetry, beauty, and prophecy, and he was also later known as the god of light and the sun. The name Apollonia (English, German, and Polish) is the female equivalent of Apollo. Apollo's origin is Indoeuropean. It is derived from the element apelo with the meaning 'strength'
The name of Apollo itself—though not Paean, a possible name of a precursor god to or epithet of him—is generally considered to be absent from the Linear B (Mycenean Greek) texts although it is possible that the name is in fact attested in the lacunose form ]pe-rjo-[ (Linear B: ] 𐀟𐁊 -[) on the KN E 842 tablet. In the Iliad, Apollo is the healer under the gods, but he is also the bringer of disease and death with his arrows, similar to the function of the terrible Vedic god of disease Rudra. He sends a terrible plague (λοιμός) to the Achaeans.
Tweet. Apollo is largely used in the Italian language and its origin is Old Greek. It is derived from the element 'apollymi' meaning to destroy. Apollon (Old Greek), Apollonios (Old Greek), and Apollonius (Latin) are old forms of Apollo. He was the god of healing, archery, poetry, beauty, and prophecy, and he was also later known as the god of light and the sun. The name Apollonia (English, German, and Polish) is the female equivalent of Apollo. Apollo's origin is Indoeuropean.
Apollo is the son of Zeus and Leto, and has a twin sister, the chaste huntress Artemis. Apollo is known in Greek-influenced Etruscan mythology as Apulu. As the patron of Delphi (Pythian Apollo), Apollo was an oracular god—the prophetic deity of the Delphic Oracle. Medicine and healing are associated with Apollo, whether through the god himself or mediated through his son Asclepius, yet Apollo was also seen as a god who could bring ill-health and deadly plague. In the Iliad, Apollo is the healer under the gods, but he is also the bringer of disease and death with his arrows, similar to the function of the terrible Vedic god of disease Rudra. He sends a terrible plague (λοιμός) to the Achaeans.
Apollo was the name of one of the ancient mythological Greek and  Roman Gods, who would ride his chariot through the sky. In the same  manner, the American spaceship would r … ide through the sky. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by P32002121. Confidence votes 49.5K. In fact Apollo is the Latin form of the name, whereas the Greek form is Apollon.
Apollo for kidsDiscover the myths surrounding Apollo, the Greek god of the sun, medicine and music, aka Phoebus Apollo. He had the gift of prophecy and was strongly associated with healing. He was a patron of the arts and his lyre symbolized music, poetry and dance. Apollo is often referred to as the god of the silver bow in reference to the myths and legends about the god killing Python, a monstrous serpent, with his bow and arrows.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by P32002121. Confidence votes 49.5K. In fact Apollo is the Latin form of the name, whereas the Greek form is Apollon.
Apollo (Roman Counterpart was also called Apollo)When the Roman Empire conquered the Greeks in 146BC, the Romans assimilated various elements from other cultures and civilisations, including the gods and goddesses that were worshipped by the Ancient Greeks. He was the only Greek god who was not given a Latin name. Apollo is often referred to as the god of the silver bow in reference to the myths and legends about the god killing Python, a monstrous serpent, with his bow and arrows.
APOLLO Both the Greeks and the Romans used that name. Apollo's Roman name was Apollo. The Romans did not give him another name. But they would refer to him as Apollon, Phoeb … us Apollo, or just Phoebus. He was known by other names as well. Castor, Lycius, Helios, Cynthius, Phythius, Nominus and Sminthius. He was the son of Leto and Zeus and twin brother of Artemis. In fact Apollo is the Latin form of the name, whereas the Greek form is Apollon. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Niamh Katie Collins.