If you have had blood clots before, you may need a longer period of treatment. If you're being treated for another illness, such as cancer, you may need to take anticoagulants as long as risk factors for pulmonary embolism are present. The most common side effect of anticoagulants is bleeding. They're used to treat some types of blood clots for patients who can't take heparin. Emergency treatment. When pulmonary embolism is life threatening, doctors may use treatments that remove or break up clots in the blood vessels of the lungs. These treatments are given in the emergency room or in the hospital.
Treating pulmonary embolism. The main treatment for a pulmonary embolism is an anticoagulant, a type of medication that stops your blood clotting easily. The anticoagulant will prevent the clot getting larger while your body slowly absorbs it. It also reduces the risk of further clots developing. Heparin is given as an injection. Regular injections of this medication are usually used as the initial treatment for a pulmonary embolism because they start working immediately. Most people diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism will initially need injections of heparin for at least five days.
Warfarin is usually started while a person is still being treated with heparin because it takes several days for warfarin to build up to a level that's effective. When warfarin is at the right level in your blood, you stop taking heparin shots and keep taking warfarin pills. Why It Is Used. In people who have had pulmonary embolism, anticoagulants are used to prevent more blood clots from forming and causing another episode of pulmonary embolism. They are used in the hospital as first treatment of a pulmonary embolism. And they also may be used at home. Treatment with anticoagulants may continue throughout your life if your risk of having another pulmonary embolism remains high
Warfarin takes 2 to 3 days before it starts to work. Once warfarin starts to work, usually the heparin will be stopped. Pregnant women usually are treated with heparin only, because warfarin is dangerous for the pregnancy. If you have deep vein thrombosis, treatment with anticoagulants usually lasts for 3 to 6 months. They're used to treat some types of blood clots for patients who can't take heparin. Emergency treatment. When pulmonary embolism is life threatening, doctors may use treatments that remove or break up clots in the blood vessels of the lungs. These treatments are given in the emergency room or in the hospital.
1 Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 2  Treatment of pulmonary embolism (PE). 3  Reduction in the risk of recurrence of DVT and of PE following initial 6 months treatment for DVT and/or PE. 4  Prophylaxis of DVT, which may lead to PE in patients undergoing knee replacement surgery. 
Pulmonary embolism (PE) is treated with medicines, procedures, and other therapies. The main goals of treating PE are to stop the blood clot from getting bigger and keep new clots from forming. Treatment may include medicines to thin the blood and slow its ability to clot. If you've had blood clots before, you may need a longer period of treatment. If you're being treated for another illness, such as cancer, you may need to take blood thinners as long as PE risk factors are present. The most common side effect of blood thinners is bleeding.
Warfarin takes 2 to 3 days before it starts to work. Once warfarin starts to work, heparin usually is stopped. Pregnant women usually are treated with heparin only, because warfarin is dangerous for the pregnancy. If you have deep vein thrombosis, treatment with blood thinners usually lasts for 3 to 6 months. If you've had blood clots before, you may need a longer period of treatment. If you're being treated for another illness, such as cancer, you may need to take blood thinners as long as PE risk factors are present. The most common side effect of blood thinners is bleeding.
Treatment for pulmonary embolism is similar to that for deep venous thrombosis. Because of the risk of hypoxemia and hemodynamic instability, in-hospital management is advised. Unfractionated heparin commonly is used, although LMW heparin is safe and effective. Anticoagulation with warfarin should follow heparin therapy. The same regimens are used for DVT and PE (Tables 313 and 416) . Use of an inferior vena cava filter occasionally is indicated when PE recurs despite anticoagulation or there are contraindications to such treatment.
Treatment goals for deep venous thrombosis include stopping clot propagation and preventing the recurrence of thrombus, the occurrence of pulmonary embolism, and the development of pulmonary hypertension, which can be a complication of multiple recurrent pulmonary emboli. Anticoagulation with warfarin should follow heparin therapy. The same regimens are used for DVT and PE (Tables 313 and 416) . Use of an inferior vena cava filter occasionally is indicated when PE recurs despite anticoagulation or there are contraindications to such treatment.