A typical bacterial cell is composed of the following structures. The cytoplasm is the  total of everything inside of the cytoplasmic membrane. It has a gel-like consistency, but small molecules can move through it rapidly; that is only takes a few microseconds for a molecule to move form end of the cell to the other. Each cell contains a** large circular genome** composed of #DNA. This is referred to as the chromosome of a cell. This chromosome contains the ** basic genetic information needed by the cell to survive and produce daughter cells* . One might think of it as the ** instruction manual for building a particular bacterium.
Bacterial genetics is the subfield of genetics devoted to the study of bacteria. Bacterial genetics are subtly different from eukaryotic genetics, however bacteria still serve as a good model for animal genetic studies. One of the major distinctions between bacterial and eukaryotic genetics stems from the bacteria's lack of membrane-bound organelles (this is true of all prokaryotes.
Confidence votes 116. Yes it is located in In a bacterial cell, the genetic material is just floating in the cytoplasm in a region called the necleoid. There are no membranes surrounding it. The hereditary material in a bacterial cell can be in the form of  both DNA and RNA. The hereditary material is packed into a circular  chromosome. Edit. Share to: Answered. In Science.
] . A bacterial cell has a different structure to an animal or plant cell. It has cytoplasm, a membrane and a surrounding cell wall, but the genetic material in a bacterial cell is not in a distinct nucleus [nucleus: Controls what happens inside the cell. Chromosomes are structures found in the nucleus of most cells. ] . 
Sridhar Rao P.N © www.microrao.com BACTERIAL GENETICS Genetics is the study of genes including the structure of genetic materials, what information is stored in the genes, how the genes are expressed and how the genetic information is transferred. Genetics is also the study of heredity and variation. The cell's genome is stored in chromosomes, which are chains of double stranded DNA. Genes are sequences of nucleotides within DNA that code for functional proteins. The genetic material of bacteria and plasmids is DNA. The two essential functions of genetic material are replication and expression.
The genetic information of a bacterium is found in a DNA loop of  the cytoplasm. Bacterium is a single-celled organism, and it is  classified according to its shape, such as … spherical or spiral. 
The following animation depicts the process of transformation: Conjugation is a process by which one bacterium transfers genetic material to another bacterium through direct contact. During conjugation, one of the bacterial cells serves as the donor of the genetic material, and the other serves as the recipient. The donor bacterium carries a DNA sequence called the fertility factor, or F-factor, on a circular, double-stranded plasmid. 
In order to infect a host cell, the bacteriophage attaches itself to the bacteria’s cell wall, specifically on a receptor found on the bacteria’s surface. Once it becomes tightly bound to the cell, the bacterial virus injects its genetic material (its nucleic acid) into the host cell. 
Genetic material. Definition. noun. The genetic material of a cell or an organism refers to those materials found in the nucleus, mitochondria and cytoplasm, which play a fundamental role in determining the structure and nature of cell substances, and capable of self-propagating and variation. Supplement. The genetic material of a cell can be a gene, a part of a gene, a group of genes, a DNA molecule, a fragment of DNA, a group of DNA molecules, or the entire genome of an organism. See also: gene, chromosome, genotype.