The Dominican Republic is on the island of Hispaniola in the  Caribbean region. This region is off the coast of Central America  and is part of the North American continent. …. Aaron McClellan. Haiti is the FRENCH 3/8 of the Island of Hispaniola. The Dominican  Republic is the SPANISH portion.    See the link below for a history of the conflict between the Fr … ench  and Spanish division
The Dominican Republic's shores are washed by the Atlantic Ocean to the north and the Caribbean Sea to the south. The Mona Passage, a channel about 130 km wide, separates the country (and Hispaniola) from Puerto Rico. The Dominican Republic is a country with many mountains, and the highest peaks of the West Indies are found here. The chains of mountains show a direction northwest-southeast, except in the Southern peninsula (in Haiti) where they have a direction west-east.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Dominican Republic is part of the West Indies, located in the North American Continent. * North America; the world's third largest continent, includes 23 countries and many small island possesions and territories. One of which is the Dominican Republic! Source(s): Desi · 7 years ago.
Dominican Republic is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of North America. Countries near Dominican Republic include Haiti, Turks and Caicos Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands and British Virgin Islands. 
Located in the continent of the Caribbean, Dominican Republic covers 48,320 square kilometers of land and 350 square kilometers of water, making it the 133rd largest nation in the world with a total area of 48,670 square kilometers. Santo Domingo is the capital city of Dominican Republic. It has a population of 2,201,941, and is located on a latitue of 18.5 and longitude of -69.99. Santo Domingo is also the political center of Dominican Republic, which is considered a Republic, and home to its Executive head of state.
Dominican Republic Description. The island of Hispaniola, the second largest island in the Caribbean, contains two separate countries; the Dominican Republic and Haiti. With a population of 10,088,598, The Dominican Republic gained its independence in 1844 and celebrates their National Day on February 27th. 
The country of Dominican Republic is in the North America continent and the latitude and longitude for the country are 18.9473° N, 70.4811° W. The neighboring countries of Dominican Republic are: 
Both by area and population the Dominican Republic is the second-largest Caribbean nation (after Cuba), with 48,445 square kilometres (18,705 sq mi) and nearly 10 million people, one million of whom live in the capital city Santo Domingo. The Dominican Republic is the largest economy (according to the U.S. State Department) in the Caribbean and Central American region. It is an upper middle-income developing country, with a 2014 GDP per capita of $12,803, in PPP terms.
English. Dominican Republic-Dominican Republic. The Dominican Republic is a country located on the eastern two-thirds of the Caribbean island of Hispaniola, bordering ► Haiti. Hispaniola is the second-largest of the Greater Antilles islands, and lies west of ► Puerto Rico and east of ► Cuba and ► Jamaica