The use of tanning beds is associated with a 1.5-fold increase in the risk of basal cell carcinoma and a 2.5-fold increase in the risk of squamous cell carcinoma. Routine screening for skin cancer is controversial. Basal cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a pearly white, dome-shaped papule with prominent telangiectatic surface vessels. Squamous cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a firm, smooth, or hyperkeratotic papule or plaque, often with central ulceration. Initial tissue sampling for diagnosis involves a shave technique if the lesion is raised, or a 2- to 4-mm punch biopsy of the most abnormal-appearing area of skin
About 70% of cutaneous SCCs occur on the head and neck, most frequently involving the lower lip, ear and periauricular region, forehead, and scalp. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common skin cancer in humans. It typically presents as a firm papule or nodule on sun-exposed areas. It may be well-or ill-circumscribed, waxy or scaly, translucent, skin-colored to pink or brown, with telangiectases and a variable degree of crusting or ulceration. Because of the potential for malignancy at the base of a cutaneous horn, a biopsy is recommended. Actinic keratoses are skin-colored to pink or yellow to brown-black, rough or scaly, papules and plaques. These lesions have potential for malignant transformation to invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
Most skin lesions are benign; however, some concern has caused the patient to make an inquiry, and a correct diagnosis is important. The plethora of dermatologic conditions makes a correct diagnosis challenging. To combat this, the clinician must approach the evaluation of the lesion in a systematic way. Excision of a presumed benign lesion accomplishes 2 goals: accurate tissue diagnosis and removal of visual insult to the patient. When total excision of a skin lesion is not feasible, an incisional biopsy can be performed for tissue diagnosis.
Squamous cell carcinoma is found in up to 20% of cases. Because of the potential for malignancy at the base of a cutaneous horn, a biopsy is recommended. Actinic keratoses are skin-colored to pink or yellow to brown-black, rough or scaly, papules and plaques. These lesions have potential for malignant transformation to invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
Family physicians are regularly faced with identifying, treating, and counseling patients with skin cancers. Nonmelanoma skin cancer, which encompasses basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma, is the most common cancer in the United States. Ultraviolet B exposure is a significant factor in the development of basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma. Basal cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a pearly white, dome-shaped papule with prominent telangiectatic surface vessels. Squamous cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a firm, smooth, or hyperkeratotic papule or plaque, often with central ulceration. Initial tissue sampling for diagnosis involves a shave technique if the lesion is raised, or a 2- to 4-mm punch biopsy of the most abnormal-appearing area of skin
It also may be treated for cosmetic reasons. Fibrous papule of the face is a common, benign, discrete, firm, dome-shaped, shiny, skin-colored to pink papule, which represents an angiofibroma. Most lesions are located on the nose and, less commonly, on the cheeks, chin, neck, and, rarely, on the lip or forehead. Because of the potential for malignancy at the base of a cutaneous horn, a biopsy is recommended. Actinic keratoses are skin-colored to pink or yellow to brown-black, rough or scaly, papules and plaques. These lesions have potential for malignant transformation to invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
Nonmelanoma skin cancer, which includes basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, is the most common cancer in the United States. Approximately 80 percent of nonmelanoma skin cancers are basal cell carcinoma and 20 percent are squamous cell carcinoma. Basal cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a pearly white, dome-shaped papule with prominent telangiectatic surface vessels. Squamous cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a firm, smooth, or hyperkeratotic papule or plaque, often with central ulceration.
Family physicians are regularly faced with identifying, treating, and counseling patients with skin cancers. Nonmelanoma skin cancer, which encompasses basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma, is the most common cancer in the United States. Ultraviolet B exposure is a significant factor in the development of basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma. Basal cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a pearly white, dome-shaped papule with prominent telangiectatic surface vessels. Squamous cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a firm, smooth, or hyperkeratotic papule or plaque, often with central ulceration.
Basal cell carcinoma is the most common type of cancer, with incidence estimates ranging from 124 to 849 per 100,000 persons per year, depending on geographic location. 2 The age-adjusted incidence of squamous cell carcinoma is estimated at 100 to 150 per 100,000 persons per year, with a 2:1 male-to-female ratio. Basal cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a pearly white, dome-shaped papule with prominent telangiectatic surface vessels. Squamous cell carcinoma most commonly appears as a firm, smooth, or hyperkeratotic papule or plaque, often with central ulceration.