WIMP. n. Any of various hypothetical, massive subatomic particles that interact with matter only through gravity and the weak force and that are thought to contribute to a galaxy's missing mass. [. 1. (Computer Science) windows, icons, menus (or mice), pointers: denoting a type of user-friendly screen display used on small computers: a WIMP system.
A vimpa (plural: vimpae) is a veil or shawl worn over the shoulders of servers who carry the mitre and crosier during liturgical functions when they are not being used by the bishop, in the Roman Catholic, Anglican, and some other western churches. The two vimpa-bearers attend the bishop during Pontifical Mass, and follow him in procession. Their function is to show the congregation that the person carrying the item (either the Mitre or the Crozier) does not have the authority of a bishop.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Full Definition of WIMP. : a weak, cowardly, or ineffectual person. — wimp·i·ness \ˈwim-pē-nəs\ noun. — wimp·ish \ˈwim-pish\ adjective. — wimp·ish·ness \-nəs\ noun. — wimpy \ˈwim-pē\ adjective. See wimp defined for English-language learners. See wimp defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Like vi, Vim's interface is not based on menus or icons but on commands given in a text user interface; its GUI mode, gVim, adds menus and toolbars for commonly used commands but the full functionality is still expressed through its command line mode. It was written by Bram Moolenaar based on source for a port of the Stevie editor to the Amiga and first released publicly in 1991. Vim is designed for use both from a command-line interface and as a standalone application in a graphical user interface.
A timid or unadventurous person: the impression that he is a colorless, indecisive wimp, and not a leader among men (James J. Kilpatrick). 1. (Computer Science) windows, icons, menus (or mice), pointers: denoting a type of user-friendly screen display used on small computers: a WIMP system.
I'm not sure why a vimp isn't always used when a bishop presides but perhaps it was used today because of Palm Sunday and the beginning of our most important week of the year. You described it well...it's used by a server, like a humeral veil, to hold the bishops crozier so that it is not scratched or damaged. Re: Role of vimp at Mass. Two vimps are always used at a Solemn Pontifical High Mass -- one as a mitre-bearer and the other as a crozier-bearer. The vimpa itself is mostly ceremonial to show that the server does not have pontifical authority and that the mitre and crozier do not belong to the server.
ViMP is a high value video content management system allowing you to run your own video portal. It is also excellently suited for video on demand portals, e-learning platforms and internal corporate video solutions. ViMP can be provided as a complete SaaS solution or on premise on your own server. Learn more. „After a long period of evaluation the solution has been shortlisted. After the test installation ViMP turned out as the right solution for the international requirements of the GfK.
Top Definition. gimp. (1) a derrogatory term for someone that is disabled or has a medicial problem that results in physical impairment. (2) An insult implying that someone is incompetent, stupid, etc. Can also be used to imply that the person is uncool or can't/won't do what everyone else is doing
WIMP. acronym for. 1. (Computer Science) windows, icons, menus (or mice), pointers: denoting a type of user-friendly screen display used on small computers: a WIMP system. 2. (General Physics) physics weakly interacting massive particle