1 Since the lymphatic system does not have a heart to pump it, its upward movement depends on the motions of the muscle and joint pumps. 2  As it moves upward toward the neck the lymph passes through lymph nodes which filter it to remove debris and pathogens. 1 Lymph nodes also trap and destroy cancer cells to slow the spread of the cancer until they are overwhelmed by it. 2  Efferent lymphatic vessels carry the filtered lymph out of the node so that it can continue its return to the circulatory system.
Lymph is clear or white fluid that travels through vessels, moves within tissues and work to keep all the parts of the body clean. After passing through the channels of the lymphatic system they drain into the lymph nodes. The lymph nodes act as filters along the lymphatic system. These nodes trap germs like bacteria, viruses, toxins as well as cancer cells and ensure that these are removed from the body. The lymph channels from the toes, legs and feet drain at the nodes behind the knees or at the groin. The channels from the face, head and scalp get filtered at lymph nodes in the neck.
It is the role of these nodes to filter the lymph before it can be returned to the circulatory system. Although these nodes can increase or decrease in size throughout life, any nodes that has been damaged or destroyed, does not regenerate. 1  Afferent lymphatic vessels carry unfiltered lymph into the node. 1 Lymph nodes also trap and destroy cancer cells to slow the spread of the cancer until they are overwhelmed by it. 2  Efferent lymphatic vessels carry the filtered lymph out of the node so that it can continue its return
Thus, interstitial fluid is ultimately returned to the cardiovascular system. Lymph nodes help remove pathogens from the lymph before it enters the circulatory system. Lymph nodes contain phagocytic cells which act as filters, trapping bacteria and other microorganisms that cause disease.
Cancer in the lymph nodes Back to top. Cancer can develop in the lymph nodes in two ways. It can start there as a primary cancer, or it can spread into the lymph nodes from a primary cancer elsewhere in the body. Cancer that starts in the lymph nodes is called lymphoma. If cancer spreads into the lymph nodes from another part of the body, this is known as secondary or metastatic cancer. Secondary cancer in the lymph nodes. Secondary cancer in the lymph nodes is when cancer cells have spread to the lymph nodes from a cancer that began elsewhere in the body. We have separate information about the different types of lymphomas | .
Groups of lymph nodes are located in the neck, underarms, chest, abdomen, and groin. A clear fluid called lymph flows through lymph vessels and lymph nodes. Anatomy of the lymphatic system, showing the lymph vessels and lymph organs, including lymph nodes, tonsils, thymus, spleen, and bone marrow. 
The lymph is a clear or whitish fluid that flows through the lymph channels. It flows through the tiniest of the blood vessels and lymph channels called capillaries and bathe the cells in the tissues of the body. Like clean blood that flows in the arteries from the heart lymph also it carries oxygen and other nutrients. The lymph channels from the toes, legs and feet drain at the nodes behind the knees or at the groin. The channels from the face, head and scalp get filtered at lymph nodes in the neck.
Once lymph fluid reaches the lymph nodes, it is filtered and treated. The lymphatic system is part of the body's immune system and foreign cells that arrive in the lymph nodes are attacked by immune system cells. After the lymph fluid is concentrated within the lymph nodes, it is filtered into the bloodstream where the kidneys capture the waste material and pass it over to the bladder. You can see your lymphatic system working when you see swelling go down around an injury.
When bacteria are recognized in the lymph fluid, the lymph nodes make more infection-fighting white blood cells, which can cause swelling. The swollen nodes can sometimes be felt in the neck, underarms and groin, according to the NLM. Lymphadenopathy is usually caused by infection, inflammation, or cancer. Diseases of the lymphatic system are usually diagnosed when lymph nodes are enlarged, Hamrick noted. This may be discovered when the lymph nodes become enlarged enough to be felt (palpable lymphadenopathy) or are seen on imaging studies such as CT scans or MRIs.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. Diseases of the lymphatic system are usually diagnosed when lymph nodes are enlarged, Hamrick noted. This may be discovered when the lymph nodes become enlarged enough to be felt (palpable lymphadenopathy) or are seen on imaging studies such as CT scans or MRIs.