• CHEMICAL COMPOUND (noun). The noun CHEMICAL COMPOUND has 1 sense: 1. (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. Familiarity information: CHEMICAL COMPOUND used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
The almond is a deciduous tree, growing 4–10 m (13–33 ft) in height, with a trunk of up to 30 cm (12 in) in diameter. The young twigs are green at first, becoming purplish where exposed to sunlight, then grey in their second year. The leaves are 3–5 inches long, with a serrated margin and a 2.5 cm (1 in) petiole. 1 In Italy, the bitter almonds from apricots are the base for amaretti (almond macaroons), a common dessert. 2  Traditionally, a low percentage of bitter almonds (10-20%) is added to the ingredients, which gives the cookies their bitter taste (commercially, apricot kernels are used as a substitute for bitter almonds).
Bitter apricot kernels may be incorrectly labelled as almonds, almond seeds, dried almonds, amandes seche or s ch es, or other variations of these words. Such mis-labelling may stem from the fact that bitter apricot kernels resemble small bitter almonds in taste and appearance. Apricot kernels are the seeds found inside the pits (stones) of fresh apricots. There are two types of apricot kernels, bitter and sweet. Bitter apricot kernels naturally contain a compound called amygdalin, which has the potential to release cyanide when ingested by humans.
Strychnine (/ˈstrɪkniːn/ ; also US /ˈstrɪknaɪn/ or /ˈstrɪknɪn/) is a highly toxic, colorless, bitter crystalline alkaloid used as a pesticide, particularly for killing small vertebrates such as birds and rodents. Strychnine was first discovered by French chemists Joseph Bienaime Bienaimé caventou And-Pierre Joseph pelletier in 1818 in The-Saint’ ignatius. Bean in Some strychnos plants a,9-10 dimethoxy derivative of, strychnine the alkaloid, brucine is also. present
Oil of bitter almond is obtained by distilling the moistened, bitter almond cake from which the fixed oil has been extracted by pressure. A similar oil, found in commerce, is obtained from the seeds of the apricot (Prunus Armeniaca, Linn.., which are imported in large quantities from Syria and California. ALMOND OIL. Related entries: Bitter almond, Sweet almond. Almond oil (Oleum Amygdalae Expressum, U.S.P.; Expressed Oil of Almond) is extracted by pressure from bitter or sweet almonds, in which it exists to the extent of about 40 per cent.
Bitter almonds may yield from 4–9 mg of hydrogen cyanide per almond and contain 42 times higher amounts of cyanide than the trace levels found in sweet almonds. The origin of cyanide content in bitter almonds is via the enzymatic hydrolysis of amygdalin. 1 In Italy, the bitter almonds from apricots are the base for amaretti (almond macaroons), a common dessert. 2  Traditionally, a low percentage of bitter almonds (10-20%) is added to the ingredients, which gives the cookies their bitter taste (commercially, apricot kernels are used as a substitute for bitter almonds).
The almond (/ɑːmənd/ or /ɑːlmənd/) (Prunus dulcis, syn. Prunus amygdalus, Amygdalus communis, Amygdalus dulcis) (or badam in Indian English, from Persian: بادام ‎‎) is a species of tree native to the Middle East and South Asia. Almond is also the name of the edible and widely cultivated seed of this tree. 1 In Italy, the bitter almonds from apricots are the base for amaretti (almond macaroons), a common dessert. 2  Traditionally, a low percentage of bitter almonds (10-20%) is added to the ingredients, which gives the cookies their bitter taste (commercially, apricot kernels are used as a substitute for bitter almonds).