Making use of terpene, a renewable material, we offer tackifying resins that are indispensable for manufacturing a variety of adhesives. Our tackifying resins provide excellent adhesion performances when formulated with various elastomers including natural rubber and styrene block copolymers.
We, Manish Minerals & Chemicals established our operations in the year 1989, as one of the manufacturers and suppliers of a gigantic assortment of Chemicals & Essential Oils. Our product compilation comprises of Essential Oils, Chemical Compound and Pine Oil.
Pinene, for example, smells like woodland, while limonene smells of lemon. They have other uses too; oil of turpentine, a mixture of several different terpene chemicals distilled from pine sap, is traditionally used in oil painting. Some terpenes and their derivatives are even used as medicines.
Many terpenes have biological activities and are used for medical purposes. For example, the antimalarial drug Artemisinin and the anticancer drug paclitaxel (Taxol®) are two of a few terpenes with established medical applications.
The smell and scent of cannabis buds is produced by plant chemicals known as terpenes and terpenoids.. Examples of different terpenes-this diagram shows their chemical structure. Terpenes are produced by many types of trees, plants and flowers as part of their essential oils. Vitamin A is an example of a complex terpene that we’re all familiar with.
Dipentene is a terpene liquid found in various volatile oils such as cardamon, mace, nutmeg, turpentine oil. This term is also reffered to the racemic mixture of limonene. Dipentene is used as a solvent for resins, alkyds and waxes and to make paints, enamels, lacquers and polishes. It is used as a perfumery composition for soaps, personal care products and cosmetics. It is used as an intermediate for terpene resins, carvone, terylene, and rubber chemicals. It is used as an oils dispersant, metal dryer. It is used as a substitute for chlorinated solvents in degreasing metals for cleaning in the electronic industry and the printing industry.