International normalized ratio (INR) which is a derivative of prothrombin time is a measurement of blood coagulation in the circulatory system. Both are used to determine the clotting rate of blood which can be affected by anticoagulant usage, liver damage and Vitamin K levels. 
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a standardized number that's figured out in the lab. If you take blood thinners, also called anti-clotting drugs or anticoagulants, it's especially important to check your INR. The INR is figured out using the results of the prothrombin time (PT) test, which measures the time it takes for your blood to clot. The INR is an international standard for the PT.
PT/PTT are laboratory tests that measure the clotting time (how long it takes blood to clot.). PT/PTT are blood tests and INR is a ratio calculated from the PT. At least a dozen blood proteins, or blood clotting factors, are needed to clot blood and stop bleeding (coagulation). Prothrombin, or factor II, is one of several clotting factors produced by the liver. LOW PT/PTT = risk for blood clots/ stroke. The INR stands for International Normalized Ratio. The INR is calculated from the PT and is intended to allow valid comparisons of results regardless of the type of PT reagent used among different laboratories (INR = [patient PT / mean normal PT]).
Test Overview. Prothrombin time (PT) is a blood test that measures how long it takes blood to clot. A prothrombin time test can be used to check for bleeding problems. PT is also used to check whether medicine to prevent blood clots is working. A PT test may also be called an INR test. INR (international normalized ratio) stands for a way of standardizing the results of prothrombin time tests, no matter the testing method. It lets your doctor understand results in the same way even when they come from different labs and different test methods.
Prothrombin Time and INR. Guide. Prothrombin time (PT) is a blood test that measures how long it takes blood to clot. A prothrombin time test can be used to check for bleeding problems. PT is also used to check whether medicine to prevent blood clots is working. A PT test may also be called an INR test
This is a test derived from another, the prothrombin ratio. It measures the extrinsic clotting pathway system, commonly used to measure warfarin (blood thinning) drugs. A normal, healthy person will have an INR of 1. In warfarin therapy, an INR is usually aimed for around 2. INR is the international normalized value for prothrombin time. It is a value that measures the extrinsic pathway of clotting, and is often used to determine how quickly the person will make clots. It is often used to determine if the patient is on therapeutic doses of blood thinners. 
The prothrombin time (PT) — along with its derived measures of prothrombin ratio (PR) and international normalized ratio (INR) — are assays evaluating the extrinsic pathway of coagulation. This test is also called ProTime INR and PT/INR. They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status. PT measures factors I (fibrinogen) , II (prothrombin) , V, VII, and X. Laboratory measurement [edit]. The reference range for prothrombin time depends on the analytical method used, but is usually around 12–13 seconds (results should always be interpreted using the reference range from the laboratory that performed the test), and the INR in absence of anticoagulation therapy is 0.8-1.2.
What is the PT-INR Test? PT is the abbreviation for “prothrombin time.” Prothrombin time is just a measure of how quickly your blood clots. INR is an abbreviation for “International Normalized Ratio.” This is the unit of measure that’s used to determine how quickly your blood is clotting. So when you take the INR test, the doctor or the nurse will simply come and draw your blood.