Full Definition of CIRCUIT BREAKER. : a switch that automatically interrupts the current of an overloaded electric circuit. See circuit breaker defined for English-language learners. See circuit breaker defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of CIRCUIT BREAKER for Kids. : a switch that automatically stops the flow of electric current if a circuit becomes overloaded.
Circuit breaker-A switch that automatically interrupts electrical flow in a circuit. This is in the case of an electric overload or an electric short and is done automatically or manually by a system for safety. 
Definition of Switch. Switch is a device used for making and breaking electric current through the circuit. A switch is a device used for operating electrical appliance. In a switch on position the current passes through the appliance and it starts functioning. In a switch off position the current will not pass through the appliance and it will not work.
circuit breaker. n. 1. (Electronics) a device that under abnormal conditions, such as a short circuit, interrupts the flow of current in an electrical circuit. 1. An automatic switch that stops the flow of electric current in a suddenly overloaded or otherwise abnormally stressed electric circuit. 2. An automatic halt or suspension in the trading on a stock exchange that takes effect in response to a specified amount of loss.
A circuit breaker is an automatically operated electrical switch designed to protect an electrical circuit from damage caused by overload or short circuit. Its basic function is to detect a fault condition and interrupt current flow. 
Noun. 1. circuit breaker-a device that trips like a switch and opens the circuit when overloaded. breaker. electrical fuse, fuse, safety fuse-an electrical device that can interrupt the flow of electrical current when it is overloaded. 1. An automatic switch that stops the flow of electric current in a suddenly overloaded or otherwise abnormally stressed electric circuit. 2. An automatic halt or suspension in the trading on a stock exchange that takes effect in response to a specified amount of loss.
This page describes a simple circuit breaker. See the next page for the residual current circuit breaker. The circuit breaker acts as a safety device in the same way as a fuse. Circuit breakers that are used at the distribution board in houses are called MCBs (minature circuit breakers). The distribution board is also called the consumer unit. The MCBs disconnect the supply if too large a current flows. The picture below shows a simple circuit breaker