It depends on the type of rock (granite, limestone, etc.) and the volume. For a rough estimate, let's assume your rock is granite and has a specific gravity of 2.7 g/cm 3, which equals 2700 kg/m 3, 168.55 lbs/ft 3 or 0.0975 lbs/in 3. If your rock was a block (per your measurements): 39 x 21 x 51 = 41,769 in 3 x 0.0975 lbs/in 3 = 4,072 lbs. If you know what type of rock it is, see http://www.edumine.com/xtoolkit/tables/sgtables.htm for approximate weights. we found a rock in our back yard and would like to get a estimate of its weight. the dementions are (H-39 IN.) (DEPTH-21 INCH) (WIDTH-51 INCH).
Graniterock’s series of on-line Construction Calculators will help you estimate the amount of material that you will need for your construction jobs. The calculators are grouped into these categories: Unit Conversion, Concrete Materials, Aggregate, Road Materials, Masonry Estimator, Landscape Supplies, and Mulch. These Unit Conversion calculators allow you to easily convert between various Englisn and Metric units for length, area, volume, weight, temperature, pressure, and force. The calculator will select the first non-blank value it encounters, and convert that value to each of the other units on teh calculator's display.
The average weight of a sandstone boulder is approximately 150 pounds per cubic foot. Limestone boulders and granite boulders in most cases weigh more. They average about 175 pounds per cubic foot. To estimate the quantity, you need to convert the area into cubic feet by multiplying length x width x height. 
Specify volume and select unit of volume measurement. Then, select material for which to perform the calculation, and press Calculate button. The weight of the selected material is calculated based on the material density and its given volume. The number enclosed in square brackets is the item's density in kilogram per cubic meter. 
for 654 common substances and materials. Specify volume and select unit of volume measurement. Then, select material for which to perform the calculation, and press Calculate button. The weight of the selected material is calculated based on the material density and its given volume. The number enclosed in square brackets is the item's density in kilogram per cubic meter. 
Impotent notice: all weight calculation results by the weight calculator are for reference only. * Choose a material you wish to obtain weight calculation from the Material Selection Box. * Average density of the material for weight calculation will be shown in the DENSITY box with g/cc as default unit. 
The total encompasses several possible structures of different size. Enter the length, width and height of the structure and then select what stone you are using for the construction. Click on Calculate to add the product and specification to the materials list and to calculate the total or sub-total. You can start over by clicking Clear Values. 
Aggregate Calculator. The Aggregate Calculator helps you to estimate the aggregate tonnage required for your job. To use the Aggregate Calculator, simply enter the width, length, and thickness of your job, and click on whether you are measuring the thickness in feet or inches. Next, click on either Base Rock, Drain Rock, or a custom density selection. 
Cubic Yards Required: To use the Concrete Volume Calculator, simply enter the width, length, and thickness of your pour, click on whether you are measuring the thickness in feet or inches, then click on the Calculate button. The calculator will estimate the number of cubic yards of concrete that will be required. Cubic Yards Required: To use the Block Wall Calculator, simply enter the height and length of the wall, click on whether you are filling an 8-inch or 12-inch wall, then click on the Calculate button. The calculator will estimate the number of cubic yards that will be required. Note that this is an estimate.
We use a simple rule of thumb, we measure the width & length and work out what it would be in cubic feet, then multiply that by 168 pounds per cubic foot, then guess-ti-mate how much to round off for the, well, rounding off, , of the boulder. The rule of thumb I use is picture the volume of the rock compared to a bag of 60 or 90lb. redi-mix concrete, and you'll be close within 50 lb. or so (about 100 lb. cubic foot).