Landy in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Landy genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Landy surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name.
You can find out where the majority of the Landy families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
Finally, it is a topographical name derived from the Old English pre 7th Century land meaning land. The suffix y means dweller at. The surname has been found in Counties Kilkenny and Tipperary since the 13th Century, (see below). Patrick de la Launde was sherriff of Kilkenny in 1337.
You can find out when most of the Landy families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Landy families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records.
This interesting surname is either a topographical name for someone who lived in a forest glade, deriving from the Middle English, Old French la(u)nde meaning glade, or a locational name from Launde in Leicestershire which is name with the same element.
You can find out where the majority of the Landry families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
[ 2 syll. lan-dy, la-ndy ] The baby boy name Landy is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is L AE NDiy †. Landy's origin is French. Landy is a diminutive form of the name Landry (English and French). Landy is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names.