Capitalism generally refers to an economic system in which means of production are mostly privately owned, and in which capital is invested in the production, distribution and/or other trade of goods and services for profit in a largely unregulated market. 1 [Capitalism is] an economic system in which investment in and ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange of wealth is made and maintained chiefly by private individuals or corporations, esp. as contrasted to cooperatively or state-owned means of wealth. 2  Random House Webster's college dictionary.
Question and answer. An economic system in which the means of production and distribution are privately or corporately owned. An economic system in which the means of production and distribution are privately or corporately owned. Capitalism. Get an answer. 
capitalism. 1. An economic system essentially based on the private ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange. 2. An economic system in which the means of production are privately owned and producers compete to maximize their profits. capitalism. n. 1. (Economics) Also called: free enterprise or private enterprise an economic system based on the private ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange, characterized by the freedom of capitalists to operate or manage their property for profit in competitive conditions.
1 [Capitalism is] an economic system in which the means of production and distribution are privately or corporately owned and development is proportionate to the accumulation and reinvestment of profits gained in a free market. 1 [Capitalism is] an economic system in which investment in and ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange of wealth is made and maintained chiefly by private individuals or corporations, esp. as contrasted to cooperatively or state-owned means of wealth. 2  Random House Webster's college dictionary.
An economic system in which the means of production and distribution are privately or corporately owned and development occurs through the accumulation and reinvestment of profits gained in a free market. (ˈkaepɪtəˌlɪzəm). ˈkæpɪtəˌlɪzəm capitalism. n. 1. (Economics) Also called: free enterprise or private enterprise an economic system based on the private ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange, characterized by the freedom of capitalists to operate or manage their property for profit in competitive conditions.
Capitalism. CapitalismAn economic system in which the means of production are privately owned. is an economic system in which the means of production are privately owned. By means of production, we mean everything—land, tools, technology, and so forth—that is needed to produce goods and services.
Market economy. A market economy is an economy in which decisions regarding investment, production, and distribution are based on supply and demand, and prices of goods and services are determined in a free price system. 
Let ' s see how capitalism and socialism differ. Capitalism Capitalism is an economic system in which the means of production are privately owned. By means of production, we mean everything-land, tools, technology, and so forth-that is needed to produce goods and services. 