Your baby needs lots of sleep, but she won't stay asleep for more than three hours or four hours at a time in her first few months. She needs to wake frequently so that she can refill her tummy, so be prepared for some interrupted nights. Here are the hours of sleep your baby is likely to need between the ages of one month and 12 months. But remember that every baby is different, and your little one may need more or less sleep than this.
By 3 to 6 months, many babies are able to sleep for a stretch of 6 hours. But just as you think your baby is getting into a nice routine -- usually between 6 and 9 months -- normal developmental stages can throw things off. Your baby may sleep from 10 to 18 hours a day, sometimes for 3 to 4 hours at a time. But babies don’t know the difference between day and night. So they sleep with no regard for what time it is. That means your baby’s wide-awake time may be from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m.
Some infants sleep for a long stretch at night as early as 6 weeks, but many babies don't reach that milestone until they're 5 or 6 months old and some continue to wake up at night into toddlerhood. You can help your baby get there sooner, if that's your goal, by teaching him good sleep habits from the start. When your baby will start to sleep longer. At 6 to 8 weeks of age, most babies begin to sleep for shorter periods during the day and longer periods at night, though most continue to wake up to feed during the night. They also have shorter periods of REM sleep, and longer periods of deep, non-REM sleep.
Set up a sleep schedule. For the first six to eight weeks, most babies aren't able to stay up much longer than two hours at a time. If you wait longer than that to put your baby down, he may be overtired and have trouble falling asleep. Teach your baby the difference between day and night. When your baby will start to sleep longer. At 6 to 8 weeks of age, most babies begin to sleep for shorter periods during the day and longer periods at night, though most continue to wake up to feed during the night. They also have shorter periods of REM sleep, and longer periods of deep, non-REM sleep.
He should be on the way toward an established sleep pattern. During this time, babies need an average of 14 hours of sleep per day: At 4 months, a baby can go eight hours at night without a feeding; by 5 months, he can sleep for 10 or 11 hours straight. Babies will sleep four to five hours during the day, spread out over three naps. At 6 months, babies need an average of 11 hours of uninterrupted sleep each night, and 3.5 hours of daytime naps spread over two to three naps. Win Baby Gear!
Understand Your Baby's Sleep Needs. During the first 2 months, your newborn's need to eat overrules her need to sleep. She may feed almost every 2 hours if you're breastfeeding, and possibly a little less often if you bottle-feed. Your baby may sleep from 10 to 18 hours a day, sometimes for 3 to 4 hours at a time. But babies don’t know the difference between day and night. So they sleep with no regard for what time it is. That means your baby’s wide-awake time may be from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m.
Newborns sleep 16 or more hours a day, but often in stretches of just a few hours at a time. Although the pattern might be erratic at first, a more consistent sleep schedule will emerge as your baby matures and can go longer between feedings. By age 3 to 4 months, many babies sleep at least five hours at a time. At some point during a baby's first year — every baby is different — he or she will start sleeping for about 10 hours each night. 1  Next
Newborns sleep a lot – typically up to 16 to 17 hours a day. But most babies don't stay asleep for more than two to four hours at a time, day or night, during the first few weeks of life. When your baby will start to sleep longer. At 6 to 8 weeks of age, most babies begin to sleep for shorter periods during the day and longer periods at night, though most continue to wake up to feed during the night. They also have shorter periods of REM sleep, and longer periods of deep, non-REM sleep.
Learn about baby sleep at every age, how to create a schedule, and how to swaddle your baby (text and video). You'll find tips from other parents on getting a baby to sleep, learn how much sleep your baby needs, and see the best cribs and bassinets. Articles (14). 1  The best sleep advice you've never heard. 2  Baby sleep basics: Birth to 3 months. 3  Baby sleep basics: 3 to 6 months