Salami and pepperoni are, basically, types of sausages that are being used in different types of cooking but, most specifically, in pizzeria and other such stuffs. The uniqueness of the taste of these food lend a very special flavor to the food items in which these get to be used.
Salami is a dried sausage which can be made of pork, beef, veal, horse, donkey, poultry or game. Different spices, smoking and vegetable ingredients give the different salame their particular taste. Pepperoni limits its ingredients to beef pork and poultry and belongs to the more spicy varieties of salame.
Pepperoni is also a type of Italian salami. Like salami, pepperoni is also made from pork, chopped beef, and poultry. This sausage is one of the dry varieties of salami. Pepperoni is spicier than salami. This sausage is mainly used as a pizza topping as it is spicy.
Pepperoni is a spicy Italian-American variety of salami (a dry sausage) usually made from cured pork and beef, but poultry may be added, if labeled correctly, for less expensive versions. Pepperoni is characteristically soft, slightly smoky, and bright red in color.
2.Pepperoni is also a type of Italian salami. This sausage is one of the dry varieties of salami. 3.Salami is a trademark sausage of Italy. It was from Italy that the sausage traveled to other parts of the world. 4.Both salami and pepperoni are mainly made from pork, chopped beef, veal, and poultry. 5.Salami is mainly used during lunchtime.
It is a spicy Italian-American variety of dry salami made of beef, pork and often veal. Pepperoni is a descendant of the spicy salamis of Southern Italy, such as salsiccia Napoletana piccante, a spicy dry sausage from Naples. Pepperoni is frequently used as a pizza topping in American-style pizzerias.
Pepperoni is a type of Italian salami. It is being referred to as the dry variety of highly spiced Italian salami. This is one major difference that a pepperoni is made with a higher ratio of spices and, this is the reason, it gets to be very spicy and makes a desirable topping for pizzas.
Pepperoni, also known as pepperoni sausage, is an American variety of salami, usually made from cured pork and beef mixed together. Pepperoni is characteristically soft, slightly smoky, and bright red in color.