Burn Levels. There are three primary types of burns: first-, second-, and third-degree. Each degree is based on the severity of damage to the skin, with first degree being the most minor and third degree being the most severe. First-degree burns usually heal within three to six days. Still, you should see your doctor if the burn affects a large area of skin (more than three inches), and if it’s on your face or a major joint. First-degree burns are mostly treated with home care. Healing time may be quicker if you treat the burn sooner.
Most burns are minor injuries that occur at home or work. It is common to get a minor burn from hot water, a curling iron, or touching a hot stove. Home treatment is usually all that is needed for healing and to prevent other problems, such as infection. There are many types of burns. The deeper the burn and the larger the burned area, the more serious the burn is. 1  First-degree burns are burns of the first layer of skin. 2  There are two types of second-degree burns 3  : Superficial partial-thickness burns injure the first and second layers of skin. 4  Deep partial-thickness burns injure deeper skin layers.
Burns have traditionally been classified according to degree: A first-degree burn involves a reddening of the skin area. In a second-degree burn the skin is blistered. A third-degree burn is the most serious type, involving damage to the deeper layers of the skin with necrosis through the entire skin. any injury to tissues of the body caused by hot objects or flames, electricity, chemicals, radiation, or gases in which the extent of the injury is determined by the nature of the agent, length of time exposed, body part involved, and depth of burn.
Third degree: a burn that extends through the full thickness of the skin and subcutaneous tissues beneath the dermis. The burn leaves skin with a pale, brown, gray, or blackened appearance. The burn is painless because it destroys nerves in the skin. any injury to tissues of the body caused by hot objects or flames, electricity, chemicals, radiation, or gases in which the extent of the injury is determined by the nature of the agent, length of time exposed, body part involved, and depth of burn.
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat, electricity, chemicals, friction, or radiation. Burns that affect only the superficial skin are known as superficial or first-degree burns. When damage penetrates into some of the underlying layers, it is a partial-thickness or second-degree burn. In a full-thickness or third-degree burn, the injury extends to all layers of the skin. Chemicals cause from 2 to 11% of all burns and contribute to as many as 30% of burn-related deaths. Chemical burns can be caused by over 25,000 substances, most of which are either a strong base (55%) or a strong acid (26%). Most chemical burn deaths are secondary to ingestion.
In a burn the crust is the dry, scablike covering that forms over a superficial burn. eschar is a hard layer of tissue that results from full-thickness injury. It is considered to be a protective covering over the wound, serving as a barrier to bacterial invasion. any injury to tissues of the body caused by hot objects or flames, electricity, chemicals, radiation, or gases in which the extent of the injury is determined by the nature of the agent, length of time exposed, body part involved, and depth of burn.
Sunburns often are categorized as first degree burns. The inflammation is characterized by pain, redness, and a mild amount of swelling. The skin may be very tender to touch. Second degree burns are deeper and in addition to the pain, redness and inflammation, there is also blistering of the skin.
The size of a burn is measured as a percentage of total body surface area (TBSA) affected by partial thickness or full thickness burns. First-degree burns that are only red in color and are not blistering are not included in this estimation. Most burns (70%) involve less than 10% of the TBSA. Chemicals cause from 2 to 11% of all burns and contribute to as many as 30% of burn-related deaths. Chemical burns can be caused by over 25,000 substances, most of which are either a strong base (55%) or a strong acid (26%). Most chemical burn deaths are secondary to ingestion.
Burns are characterized by degree, based on the severity of the tissue damage. A first-degree burn causes redness and swelling in the outermost layers of skin (epidermis). A second-degree burn involves redness, swelling and blistering, and the damage may extend beneath the epidermis to deeper layers of skin (dermis). 
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: Burn is a colloquial term meaning to write content to a CD, DVD, or other recordable disc. DVD and CD drives with recording capabilities (sometimes called DVD or CD burner s) etch data onto the disks with a laser. 