First line of defense: external barriers such as skin and microbes-they fight off everyday pathogens. Second line of defense: defense against pathogens that have broken though the first. Defense includes leukocytes and macrophages, antimicrobial proteins, immune surveillance, inflammation and fever.
Inflammatory Response. The immune system protects your body against foreign pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The immune system has 3 lines of defense against foreign pathogens: 1. Physical and Chemical Barriers (Innate Immunity). 2.
There are red blood cells that bring oxygen to every part of your body and white blood cells that fight infections. Getting to the scene. Infected or damaged cells, like the epithelial cells in our story, call for help by releasing chemicals to attract macrophages.
The immune system protects your body against foreign pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The immune system has 3 lines of defense against foreign pathogens: 1. Physical and Chemical Barriers (Innate Immunity) 2. Nonspecific Resistance (Innate Immunity) 3. Specific Resistance (Acquired Immunity).
Lymphocytes. Pathogens contain certain chemicals that are foreign to the body and are called antigens. Each lymphocyte carries a specific type of antibody-a protein that has a chemical 'fit' to a certain antigen.
They combine with a third system, the immune, to protect the body against pathogens that could threaten the organism's viability. The blood is responsible for the following: 1  Transportation of gases (oxygen O 2) and carbon dioxide (CO 2), chemical substances (hormones, nutrients, salts), and cells that defend the body.
Stimulates basophils to secrete chemicals. Basophils-secrete chemicals such as leukotrienes (activates and attracts neutrophils and eosinophils), histamine (increases blood flow and speeds the delivery of leukocytes), and heparin (inhibits formation of blood clots that would hinder leukocyte mobility.
In vertebrates, the immune system is considered the last line of defense against foreign invaders.It fights by destroying pathogens and tumor cells using mechanisms that constantly adapt to recognize and rid these disease causing cells.