1 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight (2.2 g/kg of BW) per day has been a bodybuilding rule of thumb for decades. 2  Higher levels of protein intake, usually in the range of 1.2 – 1.5 grams per pound of body weight (2.6 – 3.3 g/kg BW) per day, are commonly recommended when “cutting” to lose fat. 2. Consume seven meals per day, but only consume protein sources (meat, whey, etc.) at four or five of them – 130 -150g protein per day. 3. Change my eating habits to consume four or five meals per day so I can keep my protein around 130 – 150g per day. Thank you so much.
This is just what I consider to be a good minimum daily protein intake for general health/function. 0.5-0.7 grams of protein per pound of body weight. Average healthy adult (male or female) that IS doing some form of exercise regularly or IS trying to improve their body (lose fat, build muscle, etc.). This is the minimum I’d recommend in this case. 0.8-1 grams of protein per pound of body weight. 
According to the University of California, Los Angeles, sedentary people need about 0.36 grams of protein per 1 pound of body weight per day. This is the approximate amount of protein that will help you maintain your body’s current muscle mass. As an example, a 150 pound person would need 54 grams of protein per day. This varies depending upon your sex and age, so consult your doctor for a more precise figure. A 150 pounds strength-training athlete may need 109 to 122 grams of protein each day. The amount of protein your body needs to maintain your current lean mass and body weight may vary slightly from these guidelines.
The less body fat you have, the more protein you usually need to prevent muscle loss while dieting.3,6. When your body has thousands of extra calories stored as fat tissue, it’s generally less likely to break down your muscles. The reverse is also true, however. If you want to maintain your muscle mass and performance while dieting, you also need to maintain the intensity of your training. Eating more protein probably makes that easier. A Systematic Review of Dietary Protein During Caloric Restriction in Resistance Trained Lean Athletes: A Case for Higher Intakes
You certainly can eat 1 gram per pound of body weight, but I don’t think you need to in order to retain muscle mass. I also don’t love the fact that such a large portion of your calories are coming from protein powder. It should also make it easier to stay under your calorie level. What I want to know is, how do you measure how much protein you are getting in your meals, as in, a piece of chicken breast contains x amount of grams of protein? I weigh 115 lbs w around 25% body fat right now but am looking to build and drop the percentage of fat.
Wrapping Up. 1  The amount of protein that you REALLY need to build muscle is lower than you think, but you still have to get in enough calories from some place. 2  Most people using higher protein based diets are usually trying to lose weight and maintain muscle (by limiting calories from excess fat and carbs). 1 The RDA (recommended dietary allowance) for protein is 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight of adults (or roughly 0.36 grams per lb of body weight). 2  Or I have also seen advised that women need at least 46 grams of protein per day, and men need at least 56 grams of protein per day (to avoid deficiency
1 The more active you are, the more protein you probably should intake. 2  Most average active people only need about 0.6g/lb of lean body weight. 3  On the high end I would say only need to go 0.8-1.0g/lb bw, but that does not guarantee extra muscle especially when you can up calories from fat/carbs. 1 The RDA (recommended dietary allowance) for protein is 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight of adults (or roughly 0.36 grams per lb of body weight). 2  Or I have also seen advised that women need at least 46 grams of protein per day, and men need at least 56 grams of protein per day (to avoid deficiency)