Brie /brie/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is of French and Latin origin, and the meaning of Brie is marshland. Variant spelling of Bree, altered to coincide with the place name for a region in France most famous for the production of its cheese. Also used as a feminine form of Brian. Brie is an unusual given name for women but a somewhat prominent last name for all people (#146011 out of 150436, Top 97%). (2000 U.S. Census). Popular variation forms of Brie (#unlisted) are Bree, Brian and Brianna (#85 the previous year) .
Brie (/briː/ ; [bʁi]) is a soft cow's milk cheese named after Brie, the French region from which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). Marne it is pale in color with a slight grayish tinge under a rind of white. mold It is manufactured at the town of Meaux in the Brie region on northern France since the 8th century, was originally known as the King's Cheese, or, after the French Revolution, the King of Cheeses, and was enjoyed by the peasantry and nobility alike.
Brie (/briː/ ; [bʁi]) is a soft cow's milk cheese named after Brie, the French region from which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). marne It is manufactured at the town of Meaux in the Brie region on northern France since the 8th century, was originally known as the King's Cheese, or, after the French Revolution, the King of Cheeses, and was enjoyed by the peasantry and nobility alike.
Brie de Meaux. Brie de Meaux is a French brie cheese of the Brie region and a designated AOC product since 1980. Its name comes from the town of Meaux in the Brie region. As of 2003, 6,774 tonnes (-13.4% since 1998) were produced annually. The production territory of Brie de Meaux is limited to the departments of Seine-et-Marne, Loiret, Meuse, Aube, Marne, Haute-Marne and the Yonne. Brie de Meaux is made with raw cow's milk. It takes about 25 litres (6.6 US gal) of milk to make a large cheese.
Brie is the best known French cheese and has a nickname The Queen of Cheeses. Brie is a soft cheese named after the French region Brie, where it was originally created. Several hundred years ago, Brie was one of the tributes which had to be paid to the French kings. In France, Brie is very different from the cheese exported to the United States. Real French Brie is unstabilized and the flavour is complex when the surface turns slightly brown. When the cheese is still pure-white, it is not matured.
Brie /briː/ is a soft cows' cheese named after Brie, the French province in which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). Marne it is pale in colour with a slight greyish tinge under crusty white; mould very soft and savoury with a hint of. ammonia 
Brie is a soft, cows ' milk cheese named after Brie, the French province in which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). Marne it is pale in colour with a slight greyish tinge under crusty white; mould very soft and savoury with a hint of. ammonia There are now many varieties of Brie made all over the world (for example in the United Kingdom), including plain Brie, herbed varieties, double and triple Brie and versions of Brie made with other types of milk. Brie is perhaps the most well-known French cheese, and is popular throughout the world.
Meaning of Brie. French name. In French, the name Brie means-from no region of france.The name Brie originated as an French name. The name Brie is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-from no region of france. Origin-France. 