Georgetown University’s Paralegal Studies Program combines a strong legal foundation with real-world application to provide students with the legal knowledge, critical thinking abilities, and technical competencies needed for a successful legal career. 
How to Become a Paralegal or Legal Assistant. Most paralegals and legal assistants have an associate’s degree or a certificate in paralegal studies. In some cases, employers may hire college graduates with a bachelor’s degree with no legal experience or specialized education and train them on the job. 
To become a Certified Paralegal in the United States, the candidate voluntarily passes the Certified Paralegal Exam (CP Exam). The Certified Paralegal program established in 1976 is administered by the National Association of Legal Assistants (NALA). Certified Paralegals have passed a professional exam and certificated paralegals have completed a paralegal program or other preparatory education through an academic institution. Certificated paralegals are generally eligible to take the CP Exam after graduating from an approved paralegal program.
1 In many cases, achieving certification designates paralegals as a Certified Paralegal (CP), Certified Legal Assistant (CLA) or other since the terms paralegal and legal assistant in may cases may be identical. 2  Make sure you meet all the eligibility requirements to take the certification exam. Professional certification in the working environment is a voluntary process through which a non-government entity grants recognition to a person for having met predetermined criteria education requirements or experience.
Certified Paralegal (CP) or Certified Legal Assistant (CLA) is the title of paralegals in the United States who have passed the Certified Paralegal Exam and have met additional education and experience requirements for certification as a CP or CLA. Certified Paralegals have passed a professional exam and certificated paralegals have completed a paralegal program or other preparatory education through an academic institution. Certificated paralegals are generally eligible to take the CP Exam after graduating from an approved paralegal program.
1 A bachelor’s degree in paralegal studies from paralegal program that is ABA approved and one year of substantive work experience as a paralegal. 1 A certificate from a paralegal certificate program and five years of substantive work experience as a paralegal. 2  National certification as a CLA, CP or RP or other paralegal certification recognized by the Keystone Alliance of Paralegal Associations and two
Pennsylvania’s paralegals are not required by law to obtain set standards of training or education prior to entering the profession. However, voluntary certification is available through the Keystone Alliance of Paralegal Associations (KAPA). The Pennsylvania Certified Paralegal Credential (PaCP) Program was developed to set a benchmark for paralegal qualifications and to demonstrate paralegals’ commitment to continued learning within their field. 1 A certificate from a paralegal certificate program and five years of substantive work experience as a paralegal. 2  National certification as a CLA, CP or RP or other paralegal certification recognized by the Keystone Alliance of Paralegal Associations and two
Certified and uncertified paralegals can be qualified to assist lawyers with a large variety of legal tasks. Quite often, the term legal assistant is substituted in describing these professionals. Certified paralegals work under the close supervision of lawyers. Professional certification in the working environment is a voluntary process through which a non-government entity grants recognition to a person for having met predetermined criteria education requirements or experience.
A paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. A paralegal, like a lawyer, can be employed by a law office or work freelance at a company or law office. Paralegals are not allowed to offer legal services directly to the public on their own and must perform their legal work under an attorney or law firm (except in Ontario Canada).
If you have already earned a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, the Pathway to Paralegal Postbaccalaureate Certificate program at Kaplan University is designed to offer a convenient route to beginning a new career as a paralegal or a legal assistant. If you've earned a bachelor's degree and you're interested in making a transition into the legal field, this certificate program is designed to help you build your knowledge of the profession and gain the foundational coursework to pursue a career as a paralegal or