•Phospholipids are the most abundant type of lipid found in the membrane. Phospholipids are made up of two layers, the outer and inner layers. The inside layer is made of hydrophobic fatty acid tails, while the outer layer is made up of hydrophilic polar heads that are pointed toward the water.
Well its a phospholipid bi layer.Most of it is composed of phospholipid, but there others organic molecules like proteins and polysaccharides that makes the cell membrane. 2 people found this useful. 1 Five Examples of Phospholipids Phospholipids are an integral part of cell membranes because they are able to make lipid bilayers, but generally, they are known as one of the classes of lipids. 2  The majority…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
the cell membrane is composed of two layers of phospholipid chains and is called the phospholipid bilayer. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. Confidence votes 526. The layers are made up of lipids. These have a water loving head and a water hating tail. The membrane kind of looks like this: O==O In the cell membrane the water hating tails face each other.
The phospholipid bilayer is the two-layer membrane that surrounds many types of plant and animal cells. It's made up of molecules called phospholipids, which arrange themselves in two parallel layers, forming a membrane that can only be penetrated by certain types of substances. This gives the cell a clear boundary, and keeps unwanted substances out.
The lipids that are present in the plasma membrane are called phospholipids.. These lipid layers are made up of a number of fatty acid building blocks. The fatty acid that makes up this membrane has two different parts to it-a small water loving head-hydrophilic head. Hydro stands for water and philic means liking or loving. Channels/pores-A channel in the cell's plasma membrane. This channel is made up of certain proteins whose function is to control the movement of food and water into the cell. These channels are made up of certain proteins.
Describe the structure of a phospholipid and how it orients itself in an aqueous(water) solution. The general structure of the phospholipids bilayer is a thin membrane made up of two layers of phospholipid molecules. The phospholipids molecules self assemble so that their hydrophilic heads make up the surface and interior of the membrane. 
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells. The cell membranes of almost all living organisms and many viruses are made of a lipid bilayer, as are the membranes surrounding the cell nucleus and other sub-cellular structures. Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids.
Lipid Bilayer Structure. The lipid bilayer is a universal component of all cell membranes. Its role is critical because its structural components provide the barrier that marks the boundaries of a cell. The structure is called a lipid bilayer because it is composed of two layers of fat cells organized in two sheets. Figure %: Basic Lipid Structure. The most abundant class of lipid molecule found in cell membranes is the phospholipid. The phospholipid molecule's polar head group contains a phosphate group. It also sports two nonpolar fatty acid chain groups as its tail.
The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. It consists of the phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins.