Highest Average Appraisal Costs. At $620, Hawaii had the highest average cost for a home appraisal in 2014. Alaska had the second highest-priced appraisal fees, with an average of $530.
The cost of a home appraisal can vary greatly, depending on your geographic location. The square footage of the home and the availability of comps may also be significant cost factors. On average, the appraisal of a single family home should be about $327.
Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes.
1 For example, Appraisal IQ in Texas charges $450 for a duplex and $500 for a fourplex; and AppraiserValues.com in Southern California charges $950-$1,900 and up for a four-page appraisal of a building with 5-60 rental units.
According to MortgageNewsDaily.com, the national average cost for an appraisal by a licensed professional is between $300 and $400 and should require roughly two hours of inspection time to complete.
Average costs for an official home appraisal depends on the size of your home and where it is located geographically. Larger homes are more expensive to appraise than smaller homes. Homes in places with higher costs of living will naturally cost more than a home appraisal in a less expensive area.
The average cost of a home appraisal can vary depending on several different factors. Before entering into the appraisal process, it is important to know what an appraisal is, the different approaches taken to appraise your home and how much it costs in order to prepare you for what‘s ahead.
One Los Angeles firm, A1 Los Angeles Home Appraisal, charges $75 to $150 for travel costs for some appraisals. The company also charges $50 when customers require an appraisal within two days of an inspection and $100 more for FHA appraisals, which require a lengthier report.
The cost of a home appraisal depends on multiple factors, including region. The average price of a home appraisal was $438 in 2014, according to Bankrate's annual closing-costs survey.