Muscle shrinking (atrophy) is not part of Myasthenia Gravis, but some patients with severe weakness for many years may have some atrophy (muscle wasting). Occasionally, patients may only experience symptoms in the leg, but a doctor may perform tests to find out if there is weakness in other areas of the body. 
Myasthenia gravis is caused by a defect in the transmission of nerve impulses to muscles. It occurs when normal communication between the nerve and muscle is interrupted at the neuromuscular junction—the place where nerve cells connect with the muscles they control. Myasthenia gravis is caused by the body's antibodies impairing transmission of nerve impulses to muscles, resulting in fluctuating weakness and fatigue. Acute attacks can be life threatening because of swallowing or breathing difficulties.
Muscle weakness, or myasthenia, is a decrease in strength in one or more muscles. It is a common symptom of muscular, neurological and metabolic disorders. Muscular diseases, such as muscular dystrophy and dermatomyositis (disorder characterized by muscle inflammation), are common causes of muscle weakness. The autoimmune neuromuscular disorder known as myasthenia gravis is accompanied by muscle weakness along with drooping eyelids and double vision. Metabolic disorders, such as Addison’s disease and hyperthyroidism, can lead to weakness in one muscle or a group of muscles.
Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disease characterized by varying degrees of weakness of the skeletal (voluntary) muscles of the body. Myasthenia gravis is caused by the body's antibodies impairing transmission of nerve impulses to muscles, resulting in fluctuating weakness and fatigue. Acute attacks can be life threatening because of swallowing or breathing difficulties.
Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune neuromuscular disease characterized by varying degrees of weakness of the skeletal (voluntary) muscles of the body. In myasthenia gravis, antibodies block, alter, or destroy the receptors for acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction, which prevents the muscle contraction from occurring. These antibodies are produced by the body's own immune system.
Click Image to Enlarge. Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a chronic, complex, autoimmune disorder in which antibodies destroy neuromuscular connections. This causes problems with communication between nerves and muscle, resulting in weakness of the skeletal muscles. 
The hallmark of myasthenia gravis is muscle weakness that increases during periods of activity and improves after periods of rest. Certain muscles such as those that control eye and eyelid movement, facial expression, chewing, talking, and swallowing are often, but not always, involved in the disorder. Myasthenia gravis is caused by the body's antibodies impairing transmission of nerve impulses to muscles, resulting in fluctuating weakness and fatigue. Acute attacks can be life threatening because of swallowing or breathing difficulties.
The hallmark of myasthenia gravis is muscle weakness that increases during periods of activity and improves after periods of rest. Certain muscles such as those that control eye and eyelid movement, facial expression, chewing, talking, and swallowing are often, but not always, involved in the disorder. In myasthenia gravis, antibodies block, alter, or destroy the receptors for acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction, which prevents the muscle contraction from occurring. These antibodies are produced by the body's own immune system.
Email. Print. Myasthenia gravis is a neuromuscular disorder that causes weakness and fatigue in the muscles that control voluntary movement in the body. The weakness is caused by a disruption in the communication between the muscles and the nerves that control them. While myasthenia gravis can affect any voluntary muscles in the body, most patients will first notice its effects in the muscles that control the movement of the eyes and eyelids. The weakening of these muscles can result in droopy eyelids, double vision and partial paralysis of eye movements.