The name Claudia in the Bible. Claudia is a Roman (Latin) name, but it the Bible it occurs in the New Testament, which is written in Greek. She's immortalized in Paul's salutations at the end of his second letter to his young friend Timothy (2 Timothy 4:21). The meaning of the name Claudia may be formally obscure but here at Abarim Publications we're guessing that it doesn't mean Lame; it means Enclosure, even Haven or slightly indirect: Safety, Support or One To Lean On.
As opposed to the name's actual meaning, Claudia's are so not lame, at all, whatsoever. If you ever meet a Claudia, you won't regret it. Claudia's are the most amazing people in the world. 
Claudia meaning. The meaning of the name Claudia may be formally obscure but here at Abarim Publications we're guessing that it doesn't mean Lame; it means Enclosure, even Haven or slightly indirect: Safety, Support or One To Lean On. | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |
In German the meaning of the name Claudia is: Feminine of Claude. French Meaning: The name Claudia is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Claudia is: A feminine form of Claud, aLatin Claudium meaning lame. Claudia was mentioned in the book of Timothy in the New Testament.
Claudia /clau-dia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KLAW-dee-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Claudia is lame. Feminine of Cladius (see Claude). Biblical: a Christian woman of Rome greeted by Paul in his second letter to Timothy. The name was thus used by those looking for religious names which were not those of saints. Claudia is a very prominent first name for women (#234 out of 4276, Top 5%) but an uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Claudia for girls. Claudia reached its apex rank of #149 in the U.S. during 1940-1949, and is at #724 currently. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Derived from the Latin Claudius, an old Roman family name, which is from claudus (lame).Claudia was a Christian woman at Rome. According to tradition, Claudia was the daughter of king Cogidunus of Britain and the wife of the Roman knight, Pudens. More About Italian Name: Claudia. Feminine form of CLAUDIUS. It is mentioned briefly in the New Testament. As a Christian name it was very rare until the 16th century.
[ 3 syll. clau-dia, cl-aud-ia ] The baby girl name Claudia is pronounced KL AO-Diy-ah (English), KL AW-Diy-aa (Dutch, German), or KL AW-DYaa (Italian, Spanish) †. Claudia's language of origin is Latin. It is predominantly used in Dutch, English, German, Italian, Romanian, Scandinavian, and Spanish. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Claudia. Claudia is the Latin feminine form of a prominent ancient Roman family name Claudius from the Latin nickname “claudus” meaning ‘lame, crippled’. The original family name dates back to the 6th century B.C. held by a Sabine (an Italic tribe predating the founding of Rome). Popularity of the Name Claudia. In the United States, Claudia was most popular in the 1940s and early 50s. Having never achieved a position on the Top 100 list, she came awfully close in 1952 at position #111 on the charts. The lowest point Claudia has reached on the charts is actually right now at position #514 (2010).
Latin Meaning: The name Claudia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Claudia is: Lame. Spanish Meaning: The name Claudia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Claudia is: Lame. The name Claudia is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Claudia is: A feminine form of Claud, aLatin Claudium meaning lame. Claudia was mentioned in the book of Timothy in the New Testament.