How it works/Example: A currency is considered devalued when it loses value relative to other currencies in the foreign exchange market. A currency 's devaluation is the result of a nation's monetary policy. A central bank can make the conscious effort to make its currency less valuable. If Country XYZ's currency is set at a fixed exchange rate of 2:1 to the U.S. dollar and, due to a weak economy, XYZ cannot afford to pay the interest rate on its debt outstanding, XYZ may devalue their currency. This means the central bank of XYZ will declare their fixed exchange rate to be 10:1 to the U.S. dollar.
Definition of DEVALUATION. 1. : an official reduction in the exchange value of a currency by a lowering of its gold equivalency or its value relative to another currency. 2. : a lessening especially of status or stature: decline. ADVERTISEMENT.
Definition. Planned or market forced reduction in the value of a currency's exchange value. Devaluation may improve a country's balance of payments situation by boosting exports and reducing imports, but it worsens inflation for imported goods or those having significant import content. Opposite of revaluation. 
For other uses, see Devaluation (disambiguation) . Devaluation on modern monetary policy is a reduction in the value of a currency with respect to those goods, services or other monetary units with which that currency can be exchanged. Inflation, on the other hand, refers to the value of the currency in goods and services (related to its purchasing power). Altering the face value of a currency without reducing its exchange rate is a redenomination, not a devaluation or revaluation.
The value of a country’s currency is often judged by weighing it against other countries’ currencies. When one country decides to lower the value of its monetary units, this is known as currency devaluation. As a result, stronger currencies are capable of buying more of the weaker currency. 
DEFINITION of 'Devaluation'. A deliberate downward adjustment to the value of a country's currency, relative to another currency, group of currencies or standard. Devaluation is a monetary policy tool of countries that have a fixed exchange rate or semi-fixed exchange rate. It is often confused with depreciation, and is in contrast to revaluation. 
Currency devaluation takes place when one country's currency is reduced in value in comparison to other currencies. After currency devaluation, more of the devalued currency is required in order to purchase the same amount of other currencies. Currency devaluation can take two forms. It can either be the natural result of market forces, or it can be the result of government intervention. In the first scenario, the global market changes its opinion about the stability, value or future of a currency and decides that it is willing to pay less.
Devaluation means official lowering of the value of a country's currency within a fixed exchange rate system, by which the monetary authority formally sets a new fixed rate with respect to a foreign reference currency. Inflation, on the other hand, refers to the value of the currency in goods and services (related to its purchasing power). Altering the face value of a currency without reducing its exchange rate is a redenomination, not a devaluation or revaluation.