For comparison, consider that moving a 1,000-square-foot, 3-bedroom apartment (5,500 pounds, same as above) 200 miles from Chicago to Indianapolis would cost roughly $3,200 to $3,700. Same load, different distance. Reputable movers use a rate book published by the Household Goods Carriers Bureau. It can also take a substantial financial toll. According to U.S. Census statistics, 19 million American households pack up and move each year. In 2010, Worldwide ERC, the Worldwide Relocation Association, reported the average professional household move cost $12,230.
Moving companies, also referred to as household goods carriers, are regulated under federal law by the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 (49 U.S.C. 501 et. seq.) as it has been amended and revised to address present-day issues. The estimate is for $2000. When they get to Florida, Harry and Ethel are told that the actual cost of the move will be $3500, and unless they pay the entire amount immediately, and in cash, their belongings will not be delivered.
Choosing between Freight and Moving Services. When shipping household goods, you have a variety of service options to choose from. It is important to know exactly what kind of service your shipping company provides, so you are able to properly prepare your item for shipment. Freight service is another way to ship large household goods. While most freight shipments are for commercial goods, freight services are available to anyone looking to ship a large item. Click here for the uShip Guides on Freight Shipping
The fee for moving an average 1,000-square-foot, 3-bedroom apartment (goods weighing 5,500 pounds) from Chicago to Miami would be approximately $4,400 to $4,900. The same 1,400-mile move for a 2,800-square-foot, 4-bedroom household (20,500 pounds) would likely cost $14,600 to $15,600. Same distance, different loads. It can also take a substantial financial toll. According to U.S. Census statistics, 19 million American households pack up and move each year. In 2010, Worldwide ERC, the Worldwide Relocation Association, reported the average professional household move cost $12,230.
Keep in mind that estimates (household goods surveys) are only guidelines. On interstate shipments, you must pay the total charges as determined by the actual weight of your shipment, the distance it travels, and the services that you authorize or which become necessary to handle your shipment. OK, fast forward to 1980 and beyond. Because of the Household Goods Transportation Act of 1980, by the late 1990's there were hundreds of interstate moving companies in existence, all with their own interstate operating authority granted to them by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT).
Before moving your household goods, interstate movers are required to provide you with information regarding their dispute settlement program. Movers must offer a neutral arbitration program as a means of settling disputes that may arise concerning loss or damage of your household goods. OK, fast forward to 1980 and beyond. Because of the Household Goods Transportation Act of 1980, by the late 1990's there were hundreds of interstate moving companies in existence, all with their own interstate operating authority granted to them by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT).
Xpress Movers are rated one of the best for moving household goods with affordable interstate household goods rates with free estimating household goods costs quotes. If you wonder how to ship goods long distances, give us a call and we will help you with your household goods move. Read more about our full-service option, where Xpress Movers can take care of every aspect of your move. Professional Household Goods Relocation. Xpress Movers is a Household Goods Moving Company. Our customer is our number one priority with every household goods moving job-we respect your requirements and we do our best to make sure you become a returning customer in the future once you have used us.
1 A non-binding estimate is a reasonably accurate approximation of cost to ship your household goods. 2  This kind of estimate must be in writing and must clearly state on the front of the form that it is not binding. 3  A non-binding estimate must be provided by the mover at no cost to you, the customer. The estimate is for $2000. When they get to Florida, Harry and Ethel are told that the actual cost of the move will be $3500, and unless they pay the entire amount immediately, and in cash, their belongings will not be delivered.
Freight Services. Freight service is another way to ship large household goods. While most freight shipments are for commercial goods, freight services are available to anyone looking to ship a large item. Click here for the uShip Guides on Freight Shipping