Although the Constitution gives the executive branch preeminence in dealing with intelligence matters, Article I nevertheless provides Congress with an important oversight role. However, Congressional oversight into intelligence issues is a complex task, requiring a sophisticated understanding of the issues. 1  The floor debate for the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 provided a clear example of the difficulties Congress faces when trying to modify intelligence legislation.
Congress’s oversight authority derives from its “implied” powers in the Constitution, public laws, and House and Senate rules. It is an integral part of the American system of checks and balances. However, oversight, which dates to the earliest days of the Republic, also occurs in a wide variety of congressional activities and contexts.
United States Intelligence Community Oversight duties are shared by both the executive and legislative branches of the government. Oversight, in this case, is the supervision of intelligence agencies, and making them accountable for their actions. Although the Constitution gives the executive branch preeminence in dealing with intelligence matters, Article I nevertheless provides Congress with an important oversight role. However, Congressional oversight into intelligence issues is a complex task, requiring a sophisticated understanding of the issues.
Shared vs. Competing Jurisdiction. In some cases, the congressional intelligence committees share jurisdiction of certain activities with other congressional committees. 1  For example, HPSCI and SSCI share IC oversight with the House and Senate Armed Services Committees. However, Congressional oversight into intelligence issues is a complex task, requiring a sophisticated understanding of the issues. 1  The floor debate for the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 provided a clear example of the difficulties Congress faces when trying to modify intelligence legislation.
Congress' oversight function takes many forms: 1  committee inquiries and hearings; 2  formal consultations with and reports from the executive; 3  Senate advice and consent for executive nominations and treaties; 4  House impeachment proceedings and subsequent Senate trials; 5  House and Senate proceedings under the 25th Amendment in the event that the 6  ... infor In 1987, oversight efforts disclosed statutory violations in the executive branch's secret arms sales to Iran and the diversion of arms profits to anti-government forces in Nicaragua, known as the contras.
The Legislative Branch. The United States Congress is made up of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Learn more about the powers of the Legislative Branch of the federal government of the United States. Established by Article I of the Constitution, the Legislative Branch consists of the House of Representatives and the Senate, which together form the United States Congress. The President may veto bills Congress passes, but Congress may also override a veto by a two-thirds vote in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Article I of the Constitution enumerates the powers of Congress and the specific areas in which it may legislate.
The Senate’s advice and consent are also required for the Governor’s appointments of agency heads. The Senate may use these advice and consent powers to exercise legislative oversight by reviewing the background and qualifications of individuals selected to assume policymaking positions in state government. This manner of legislative oversight continues today in a slightly modified form, as most state agencies are required to file some type of annual report with the Legislative Service Commission (LSC), which in turn provides a list of all reports to each member of the General Assembly.
To determine the quantity and quality of legislative oversight is not an easy assignment, however. 7 See, for example, Robert Higgs, Crisis and Leviathan: Critical Episodes in the Growth of American Government (New York: Oxford University Press, 1987). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Congressional oversight is oversight by the United States Congress over the Executive Branch, including the numerous U.S. federal agencies. Congressional oversight includes the review, monitoring, and supervision of federal agencies, programs, activities, and policy implementation. Congress exercises this power largely through its congressional committee system. However, oversight, which dates to the earliest days of the Republic, also occurs in a wide variety of congressional activities and contexts.