Anzac Day. Anzac Day is one of Australia’s most important national commemorative occasions. It marks the anniversary of the first major military action fought by Australian and New Zealand forces during the First World War. 
Many New Zealanders observe Anzac Day on April 25. It commemorates the landing of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) at Gallipoli, Turkey, during World War I in 1915. This event, also observed in Australia, remembers all New Zealanders who served their country in wars and conflicts.
Anzac Day /ˈaenzaek/ ˈænzæk is a national day of remembrance In australia And New zealand that broadly commemorates All australians And New zealanders who served and died in all, wars, conflicts and peacekeeping operations and the contribution and suffering of all those who have.. served The date 25 April was officially named Anzac Day in 1916; in that year it was marked by a wide variety of ceremonies and services in Australia and New Zealand, including a commemorative march through London involving Australian and New Zealand troops.
Anzac Day is a national pubic holiday in Australia and New Zealand, and is commemorated by both countries on 25 April every year to honour members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who fought at Gallipoli in Turkey during World War 1. 25th April 1915 was the landing at Gallipoli and the first time these two young nations had the opportunity to prove t … hemselves in battle. It is a national day of remembrance in Australia and New Zealand commemorating the Anzac attack on Gallipoli, Turkey in 1915.
Anzac Day. Anzac Day is a very special day both in Australia and New Zealand. The anniversary of the Anzac day is probably Australia\'s most important national occasion. It marks the anniversary of the first major military action fought by New Zealand and Australian forces during the First World War.
ANZAC Day is also a public holiday and day of remembrance in New Zealand, the Cook Islands, Niue, Samoa and Tonga. It is also commemorated with special services and events on or around April 25 in a range of countries across the globe. ANZAC Day is the anniversary of the landing of troops from Australia and New Zealand on the Gallipoli Peninsula in Turkey during in World War I. Saturday, April 25, 2015 (All except Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia).
Observed on 25 April each year, Anzac Day was originally to honour the members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who fought at Gallipoli against the Ottoman Empire during World War I. The date 25 April was officially named Anzac Day in 1916; in that year it was marked by a wide variety of ceremonies and services in Australia and New Zealand, including a commemorative march through London involving Australian and New Zealand troops.
ANZAC (Australian and New Zealand Army Corps) Day is the anniversary of the landing of troops from Australia and New Zealand on the Gallipoli Peninsula, Turkey, in World War I on April 25, 1915. ANZAC Day is the anniversary of the landing of troops from Australia and New Zealand on the Gallipoli Peninsula in Turkey during in World War I. Saturday, April 25, 2015 (All except Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia).
Anzac Day, on April 25, is the anniversary of the landing of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps at Gallipoli during World War I in 1915. The Australian and New Zealander soldiers were part of an Allied expedition that set out to capture the Gallipoli Peninsula. It commemorates the landing of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) at Gallipoli, Turkey, during World War I in 1915. This event, also observed in Australia, remembers all New Zealanders who served their country in wars and conflicts.
ANZAC Day is named after the Australian and New  Zealand Army Corps, who landed at Gallipoli on … 25 April 1915, in  World War I.    Marked with a public holiday in Australia and New Zealand, ANZAC  Day commemorates the landing of the troops at Gallipoli on the  Turkish Aegean coast, on 25 April 1915. 25th April 1915 was the landing at Gallipoli and the first time these two young nations had the opportunity to prove t … hemselves in battle. It is a national day of remembrance in Australia and New Zealand commemorating the Anzac attack on Gallipoli, Turkey in 1915.