Three-center two-electron bonds are seen in many boron compounds, such as diborane (B 2 H 6). The monomer BH3 is unstable since the boron atom is only surrounded by six valence electrons, and thus, to form a stable octet, shares electrons with a B−H bond on another boron atom, forming a B−H−B 3-center-2-electron bond. The two electrons go into the bonding orbital, resulting in a net bonding effect and constituting a chemical bond among all three atoms. In many common bonds of this type, the bonding orbital is shifted towards two of the three atoms instead of being spread equally among all three.
Diborane will ignite spontaneously in moist air at room temperature. Synonyms include boroethane, boron hydride, and diboron hexahydride. Diborane is a key boron compound with a variety of applications. The compound is classified as endothermic, meaning that its heat of formation, δH° f is positive (36 kJ/mol). Diborane adopts a D 2h structure containing four terminal and two bridging hydrogen atoms. The model determined by molecular orbital theory indicates that the bonds between boron and the terminal hydrogen atoms are conventional 2-center, 2-electron covalent bonds.
1 7.  As there are 12 electrons and 8 bonds in B2H6 molecule it is an electron deficient molecule Because of their resemblance to a banana these are also called banana bonds shown in the structure. Hence diborane molecule has two electrons less than the maximum required number thus it is an electron deficient molecule. 1 5. 6)Many metal hydrides react with diborane to form tetrahydridoborate which contain [BH4]- tetrahedral ion. 2MH + B2H6 2M+ [BH4]- Where (M=Li or Na), for ex: 2LiH + B2H6 2Li+ [BH4]-. 2  6.
A three-center two-electron bond is an electron-deficient chemical bond where three atoms share two electrons. The two electrons go into the bonding orbital, resulting in a net bonding effect and constituting a chemical bond among all three atoms. In many common bonds of this type, the bonding orbital is shifted towards two of the three atoms instead of being spread equally among all three.
Bonding diagram of diborane (B 2 H 6) showing with curved lines a pair of three-center two-electron bonds, each of which consists of a pair of electrons bonding three atoms, two boron atoms and a hydrogen atom in the middle. Diborane adopts a D 2h structure containing four terminal and two bridging hydrogen atoms. The model determined by molecular orbital theory indicates that the bonds between boron and the terminal hydrogen atoms are conventional 2-center, 2-electron covalent bonds.
In the bridge structure, diborane has eight bonds but there are 12 electrons available for bonding, three per B and one per H. Hence, all the bonds in the molecule cannot be electron-pair bonds which would require 16electrons for the structure in Fig. 6.2. Diborane, B 2 H 6, has been found to possess a bridge structure (Fig. 6.2) in which each B atom is bonded to two H atoms called terminal H atoms by regular electron-pair bonds. The resulting two BH, fragments are bridged by two H atoms as indicated by electron diffraction studies and by Raman and infrared spectroscopy.
As mentioned earlier, there are not enough valence electrons in B2H6 to form the expected number of covalent bonds, in other words, B 2 H 6 is an electron-deficient compound. Since boron atom has three unpaired electrons in the outermost orbit in the excited state, it can form three covalent bonds. If each of the boron atoms in diborane links itself to three hydrogen atoms, there will be no electrons left to form a bond between the two boron atoms. Diborane, B 2 H 6, has been found to possess a bridge structure (Fig. 6.2) in which each B atom is bonded to two H atoms called terminal H atoms by regular electron-pair bonds. The resulting two BH, fragments are bridged by two H atoms as indicated by electron diffraction studies and by Raman and infrared spectroscopy.
As mentioned earlier, there are not enough valence electrons in B2H6 to form the expected number of covalent bonds, in other words, B2H6 is an electron-deficient compound. Since boron atom has three unpaired electrons in the outermost orbit in the excited state, it can form three covalent bonds. If each of the boron atoms in diborane links itself to three hydrogen atoms, there will be no electrons left to form a bond between the two boron atoms. Diborane, B 2 H 6, has been found to possess a bridge structure (Fig. 6.2) in which each B atom is bonded to two H atoms called terminal H atoms by regular electron-pair bonds. The resulting two BH, fragments are bridged by two H atoms as indicated by electron diffraction studies and by Raman and infrared spectroscopy.
The combination of three atomic orbitals form three molecular orbitals: one bonding, one non-bonding, and one anti-bonding. The two electrons go into the bonding orbital, resulting in a net bonding effect and constituting a chemical bond among all three atoms. In many common bonds of this type, the bonding orbital is shifted towards two of the three atoms instead of being spread equally among all three.
DOI:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199235353.003.0012 Molecules containing less than two valence electrons per bond are referred to as electron deficient. The simplest such molecule is the trigonal trihydrogen cation (H3 +). Keywords: electron deficient molecules, the trihydrogen cation, three-center molecular orbitals, Jahn-Teller distortion, hexamethyl dialane, variable-temperature spectroscopy, bridge-terminal exchange, closoboranes, tetrameric methyl lithium.