A geographic information system (GIS) is a system designed to capture, store, manipulate, analyze, manage, and present all types of spatial or geographical data. GIS or spatial data mining is the application of data mining methods to spatial data. Data mining, which is the partially automated search for hidden patterns in large databases, offers great potential benefits for applied GIS-based decision making.
GIS is a mapping technology that allows the user to create and interact with a variety of maps and data sources. GIS integrates databases with georeferenced spatial data (maps tied to specific known locations). In other words GIS allows the user to create visual displays of tabular information. In a GIS the user is able to decide how the data will be displayed. GIS projects can range from global projects to site specific (such as a school and schoolyard).
GIS is a very powerful decision-making tool that has a massive range of applications, whatever your business – resource management, logistics, planning, transport, surveying, demographic studies, epidemiology and environment, to name but a few. Changes in a particular area or feature over time can be measured. Weed and pest management. Invasive weeds and pests can lead to massive economic costs. GIS is used to determine the areas infested by mapping in the field (recording perimeters of infested areas or recording individual points/sightings) or using satellite imagery/remote sensing.
The Power of Mapping. A geographic information system (GIS) lets us visualize, question, analyze, and interpret data to understand relationships, patterns, and trends. GIS benefits organizations of all sizes and in almost every industry. There is a growing interest in and awareness of the economic and strategic value of GIS. Better Decision Making. GIS is the go-to technology for making better decisions about location. Common examples include real estate site selection, route/corridor selection, evacuation planning, conservation, natural resource extraction, etc. Making correct decisions about location is critical to the success of an organization
With GIS, you can analyse topographic, environmental, demographic and land use data to help you with your business decisions and project management. Weed and pest management. Invasive weeds and pests can lead to massive economic costs. GIS is used to determine the areas infested by mapping in the field (recording perimeters of infested areas or recording individual points/sightings) or using satellite imagery/remote sensing.
What goes beyond a GIS is a spatial data infrastructure, a concept that has no such restrictive boundaries. In a general sense, the term describes any information system that integrates, stores, edits, analyzes, shares, and displays geographic information. GIS or spatial data mining is the application of data mining methods to spatial data. Data mining, which is the partially automated search for hidden patterns in large databases, offers great potential benefits for applied GIS-based decision making.
Geographic information science is the science underlying geographic concepts, applications, and systems. GIS is a broad term that can refer to a number of different technologies, processes, and methods. It is attached to many operations and has many applications related to engineering, planning, management, transport/logistics, insurance, telecommunications, and business. GIS or spatial data mining is the application of data mining methods to spatial data. Data mining, which is the partially automated search for hidden patterns in large databases, offers great potential benefits for applied GIS-based decision making.
The acronym GIS refers to Geographic Information Systems-a tool that allows geographers and analysts to visualize data in several different ways in order to see patterns and relationships in a given area or subject. These patterns generally appear on maps but they can also be found on globes or in reports and charts. How GIS Works. In order to then do an analysis, another set of data is layered on top of the first one to show spatial patterns and relationships. For example, elevation at specific locations can show up in the first layer and then rates of precipitation at various places in the same area can be in the second.