Urine Formation. Urineis formed through a combination of four basic processes: 1) glomerular filtration, 2) tubular reabsorption, 3) tubular secretion, and 4) water conservation. Blood is under high pressure in the glomerulus; thus, plasma (except for plasma proteins) moves into the glomerular capsule. This fluid is called filtrate.
urine is produced in the kidneys. the kidneys act as filters to the blood removing waste that accumulates in our bloodstreams. urine consits mostly of water, urea and ammonia. The body also releases white cells, bilirubin (red blood cells) , small amounts of protien, epithelial cells, Creatnine among other constituents. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Urine is formed in the kidneys, specifically by the renal tubules in the kidneys. It drains into the renal pelvis (think of this like a collecting pool of the urine as it comes out of the kidneys). This drains down the ureters to the bladder (the next big collecting pool)
The female and male urinary system are very similar, differing only in the length of the urethra. Urine is formed in the kidneys through a filtration of blood. The urine is then passed through the ureters to the bladder, where it is stored. During urination, the urine is passed from the bladder through the urethra to the outside of the body. 800–2,000 milliliters (mL) of urine are normally produced every day in a healthy human. 
Urine is formed in the kidneys, specifically by the renal tubules in the nephrons of the kidneys. It then is collected by the renal pelvis, where it exits though the ureters, moves to the bladder where it is stored until urination, during which it is expelled through the urethra. The kidneys' 2 million nephrons (abou … t a million in each kidney) form urine by three regulated processes: filtration, reabsorption, and secretion. Filtration is the process of where the blood moves from the heart, into the kidneys and it's nephrons.
Urine is one of the body's waste products. It is primarily composed of water and urea. Urea is a special nitrogenous waste compound that the body must routinely remove. Urine formation occurs in the kidney in three stages: filtration, reabsorption, and secretion. 
Function: Urine Formation and Excretion. Urine is composed of unwanted substances that have been filtered from the blood by nephrons, the functional units of the kidneys. The urine formed in the kidneys passes through the ureters and is temporarily stored in the bladder. From here it is emptied, normally under voluntary control, through the urethra.
Filtration. Each kidney has about a million nephrons, where urine formation takes place. At any given time, about 20 percent of the blood is going through the kidneys to be filtered so that the body can eliminate waste and maintain hydration, blood pH and proper levels of blood substances. The first part of the process of urine formation occurs in the glomeruli, which are small clumps of blood vessels. The glomeruli act as filters, allowing water, glucose, salt and waste materials to pass through to the Bowman's capsule, which surrounds each glomerulus, but preventing the red blood cells from passing.
The kidneys filter blood to form/produce urine in the body. It is  then moved into the bladder and eliminated from the bladder through  the urinary tract. Kidney fitres out … 180 litres of blood to form 0.5 to 2 litres of  urine /day. This urine is collected in urinary bldder. The kidneys' 2 million nephrons (abou … t a million in each kidney) form urine by three regulated processes: filtration, reabsorption, and secretion. Filtration is the process of where the blood moves from the heart, into the kidneys and it's nephrons.
Urine Formation. Urine is formed through a combination of four basic processes: 1) glomerular filtration, 2) tubular reabsorption, 3) tubular secretion, and 4) water conservation. Blood is under high pressure in the glomerulus; thus, plasma (except for plasma proteins) moves into the glomerular capsule. Urineis formed through a combination of four basic processes: 1) glomerular filtration, 2) tubular reabsorption, 3) tubular secretion, and 4) water conservation. Blood is under high pressure in the glomerulus; thus, plasma (except for plasma proteins) moves into the glomerular capsule. This fluid is called filtrate.