Most likely, you’re already a little familiar with the job of a firefighter. Firefighters put out fires in buildings, homes, forests, and anywhere else they occur. They do their best to keep their communities safe and they help to save lives ! However, a firefighter’s job doesn’t stop there!
And because their job requires them to be strong, healthy, and fit, firefighters must also spend time looking after their well-being and physical fitness. The job of a firefighter requires many important qualities. A firefighter’s job is often dangerous, so a person who wants to be a firefighter must be brave and strong. Firefighters must also be able to operate equipment and work well with others. Being able to lift heavy things, climb, and work in hot, stressful conditions are also important qualities for firefighting!
Take a deep look at what a firefighter does from the time they arrive at the firehouse to the time they leave the firehouse. Whether or not they respond to a single call, they may still do many of the above items while on duty at
Being a firefighter is not easy and neither is the process of becoming a firefighter. Competition is fierce and the hiring process can be very grueling and challenging, something many people do not endure or succeed at. More than 70% give up the pursuit of becoming a firefighter and move on to other career choices.
Some people might be surprised to discover what a firefighter's job entails. A few years ago (in the late 80's) a fire chief, in a lecture said, The fire department is misnamed.. He explained that the police had the job of interpersonal conflict mitigation.
As a fireman, you'll be called on to contain and put out fires in a variety of structures. To perform these duties safely, you attend a training academy where you learn to work with other firefighters and your gear.
Firemen, often referred to as firefighters, do a lot more than extinguish fires. Read on and you'll learn more about the many ways firemen help and educate the public. Schools offering Fire Science degrees can also be found in these popular choices.