The process known as ICQ Library or ICQ Application belongs to software ICQ6 or Mail.Ru Agent by ICQ (www.icq.com). Description: Icq.exe is not essential for the Windows OS and causes relatively few problems. Icq.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Program Files—normally C:\Program Files\ICQ\ . In case of problems with icq.exe, you can also completely remove ICQ or ICQ6 (Control Panel⇒Add/Remove programs) or look for help on the www.icq.com website. Recommended: Identify icq.exe related errors. 1  If icq.exe is located in a subfolder of the user's profile folder, the security rating is 30% dangerous.
Instant messaging (IM) is a type of online chat which offers real-time text transmission over the Internet. A LAN messenger operates in a similar way over a local area network. Short messages are typically transmitted bi-directionally between two parties, when each user chooses to complete a thought and select send. 
Global, a leading consumer product testing provider based in Italy, with presence in Africa, Asia and the United States. UL Acquires ICQ Global, Extends Global Reach for Toy, Softlines and ... by PR Newswire. The result is. Love-taking social dating to a new level. 
ICQ File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your ICQ file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your ICQ file.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. ICQ is an instant messenger client, not unlike AIM, MSN Messenger, or Google Talk. ICQ is not actually an initialism, the name is instead a play on the words, “I seek you,” referring to the way in which ICQ can be used to find old or new friends, and communicate with them. 
Download: An all-inclusive server OS buyer's guide. Experts break down popular server OS options on the market, and examine lesser-known alternatives. Review the key considerations to keep in mind when making a server OS purchasing decision. You forgot to provide an Email Address. vs. BMC Numara Track-It! ICQ (I Seek You) is a program you can download that will let you know when friends and contacts are also online on the Internet. ICQ allows you to page them, chat with them, and initiate and participate in PC-to-PC calls, PC-to-phone and phone-to-phone calling cards calls.
Main » TERM » I ». An easy-to-use online instant messaging program developed by Mirabilis LTD. Prounounced as separate letters, so that it sounds like I-Seek-You, ICQ is similar to America OnLine's popular Buddy List and Instant Messenger programs. 
Confidence votes 274. ICQ is an instant messaging computer program, owned by Time Warner's AOL subsidiary. ICQ was first developed by the Israeli company Mirabilis. The first version of the program was released in November 1996. While the above is true-I'd like to add that the ICQ is a play on the phrase I seek You if said aloud. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Staying Current: How to Update Windows on Your PC There are millions of dollars to be made hacking Windows.