Foreign Exchange Transaction Law & Legal Definition. Foreign exchange transaction is a type of currency transaction that involves two countries. Generally, a foreign exchange transaction involves conversion of currency of one country with that of another. The conversion of currency in a foreign exchange transaction can be performed through : 1. buying or selling of goods and services on credit; 
exchange rate. The price of one currency expressed in terms of another currency. For example, if the U.S. dollar buys 1.40 Canadian dollars, the exchange rate is 1.4 to 1. Changes in exchange rates have significant effects on the profits of multinational corporations. 
The exchange of one currency for another, or the conversion of one currency into another currency. Foreign exchange also refers to the global market where currencies are traded virtually around-the-clock. The term foreign exchange is usually abbreviated as forex and occasionally as FX.. Next Up
In finance, an exchange rate (also known as a foreign-exchange rate, forex rate, FX rate or Agio) between two currencies is the rate at which one currency will be exchanged for another. It is also regarded as the value of one country’s currency in terms of another currency. In the retail currency exchange market, a different buying rate and selling rate will be quoted by money dealers. Most trades are to or from the local currency. The buying rate is the rate at which money dealers will buy foreign currency, and the selling rate is the rate at which they will sell the currency.
The foreign exchange market (forex, FX, or currency market) is a global decentralized market for the trading of currencies. This includes all aspects of buying, selling and exchanging currencies at current or determined prices. 
DEFINITION of 'Exchange Rate'. The price of a nation’s currency in terms of another currency. An exchange rate thus has two components, the domestic currency and a foreign currency, and can be quoted either directly or indirectly. In a direct quotation, the price of a unit of foreign currency is expressed in terms of the domestic currency. An exchange rate that does not have the domestic currency as one of the two currency components is known as a cross currency, or cross rate. Also known as a currency quotation, the foreign exchange rate or forex rate.
Exchange Rate. The value of two currencies relative to each other. For example, on a given day, one may trade one U.S. dollar for a certain number of British pounds. A currency's exchange rates may be floating (that is, they may change from day to day) or they may be pegged to another currency. A floating exchange rate is dependent on the supply and demand of the involved currencies, as well as the amount of the currency held in foreign reserves. On the other hand, a government may peg its currency to a certain amount in another currency or currency basket.
Definition. Rate at which one currency may be converted into another. also called rate of exchange or exchange rate or currency exchange rate.