A vulvectomy is a surgical procedure in which all or part of the vulva, the external part of a female's genitalia, is removed. These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A vulvectomy is a surgical procedure in which all or part of the vulva, the external part of a female's genitalia, is removed. Women diagnosed with vulvar cancer may require surgery to remove the cancerous cells.
the surgical removal of part or all of the tissues of the vulva, performed most frequently in the treatment of malignant or premalignant neoplastic disease. Simple vulvectomy includes the removal of the skin of the labia minora, labia majora, and clitoris. Radical vulvectomy involves excision of the labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, surrounding tissues, and pelvic lymph nodes.
A. A vulvectomy is removal of the vulva. Skinning vulvectomy is a procedure in which the skin of the vulva that contains the cancer is removed. A simple vulvectomy is a procedure in which the entire vulva is removed, but no lymph nodes. A partial vulvectomy is a procedure that removes only a portion of the vulva. A radical vulvectomy is a procedure in which the entire vulva is removed, and lymph nodes in the groin usually are removed. 
This first diagram (below) shows a partial vulvectomy where the cancer is on one side of the vulva. The next diagram (below) shows a partial vulvectomy where the cancer is at the top of the vulva. The last diagram (below) shows a partial vulvectomy where the cancer is in the lower part of the vulva. Rated 5 out of 5 based on 18 votes.
The diagram on this page shows surgery called a radical vulvectomy or vulvectomy. This means removing the vulva completely. The most common type of operation these days is called a 3 in 1, or triple incision. This means there is one incision to remove the vulva itself. And two more – one on each side – to remove the lymph nodes.
A simple vulvectomy can be either complete (more than 80% of the vulvar area) or partial (less than 80% of vulvar area). It removes the skin and superficial subcutaneous tissues. a radical vulvectomy is the same with regard to complete or partial, however, includes removal of skin and deep subcutaneous tissue. 'Skinning vulvectomy' involves the removal of the top layer of vulvar skin (the external female genital organs, including the clitoris, vaginal lips and the opening of the vagina). In this case skin grafts from other parts of the body may be needed to cover the area.
A partial vulvectomy removes only the affected area and an edge (or margin) of tissue around the cancer, which is called “getting a clear margin.” The modified radical vulvectomy removes the affected area and an edge of tissue for a clear margin. 
Vulvectomy refers to a gynecological procedure in which the vulva is partly or completely removed. The procedure is usually performed as a last resort in certain cases of cancer, vulvar dysplasia, vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia, human papillomavirus or female genital mutilation. 'Skinning vulvectomy' involves the removal of the top layer of vulvar skin (the external female genital organs, including the clitoris, vaginal lips and the opening of the vagina). In this case skin grafts from other parts of the body may be needed to cover the area.
The diagrams below show the area affected when you have a partial vulvectomy. This means removing part of the vulva. There are different operations depending on where the cancer is, and on how easy it is for your surgeon to take a border of healthy tissue away as well as the cancer. The next diagram (below) shows a partial vulvectomy where the cancer is at the top of the vulva. The last diagram (below) shows a partial vulvectomy where the cancer is in the lower part of the vulva. Rated 5 out of 5 based on 18 votes.