They produce a lavender bloom in early summer. By contrast, when the lighter color occurs on the edge of their foliage, hosta plants are said to be marginally variegated.. One example is H. 'Francee.' Another is the related H. 'Patriot,' grown in zones 3-8. Its leaves are green in the center and white on the edges. Hostas With Gold (Yellow) Leaves. Hosta plants with gold leaves should be planted in full sun to bring out their color fully. That color can range from a true gold to a chartreuse, depending on variety, location in the yard, geographical region, etc.
Variegation in hosta plants is manifested in a couple of different ways. Foliage is termed medio variegated when the lighter color (white, a lighter green, or yellow) occurs in the center of the leaf. For example, Hosta 'Undulata Variegata' (zones 3-8) is white in the middle and green at the edges. Hostas With Gold (Yellow) Leaves. Hosta plants with gold leaves should be planted in full sun to bring out their color fully. That color can range from a true gold to a chartreuse, depending on variety, location in the yard, geographical region, etc.
Color has a magical way of tying plants together so that the eye flows from one to the next. An unremarkable, solid-colored hosta suddenly becomes beautiful because its color is enriched by a neighboring plant. A blue hosta, for example, looks great planted among pink and purple flowers. The leaf color of a gold hosta becomes more intense when it is echoed by yellow flowers or contrasted with purple flowers. Even if a plant has just a small splash of the color you want to echo, it will be effective. 
Few other groups of plants have the same variety of foliage hues, which is important because foliage is the backbone of the landscape. Hosta leaves range in color from light buttery yellow to deep forest green to powdery blue, and a host of variegated forms are also available. Similarly, plants grown in southern gardens progress through the changes faster than hostas in northern gardens. Hostas go through three main types of color changes. 1  Viridescent color change --The root word of viridescent means green, so a viridescent hosta becomes more green as the season progresses.
Hostas (Starters). Hosta or hostas are the most popular, low maintenance, shade tolerant plant in North America! Hostas come in a wide variety of sizes, shapes, colors, and are quite disease and pest free. NOTE, the pictures on are site are often of mature plants
There are hostas as large as 4 feet tall and 7 feet across, and others that are rock garden size, only 4 inches high. Since gardeners grow hosta more for their foliage than their flowers, leaf color is of primary importance. Plain green is a thing of the past. Leaves are now blue, blue green, chartreuse, gold, or variegated. Stems and petioles are burgundy. Blue hostas. The blue hostas are particularly popular, not just for their color, but for the corrugated texture of their leaves that makes them undesirable to slugs. The blue color is actually a waxy bloom that can be rubbed off.
Hosta (/ˈhɒstə/ , syn. Funkia) is a genus of plants commonly known as hostas, plantain lilies (particularly in Britain) and occasionally by the Japanese name giboshi. Hostas are widely cultivated as shade-tolerant foliage plants.
Few other groups of plants have the same variety of foliage hues, which is important because foliage is the backbone of the landscape. Hosta leaves range in color from light buttery yellow to deep forest green to powdery blue, and a host of variegated forms are also available. The more heat to which a hosta is exposed, the faster the color change occurs. Plants changing the fastest seem to be those grown in a greenhouse in pots on elevated benches. Similarly, plants grown in southern gardens progress through the changes faster than hostas in northern gardens.
By contrast, when the lighter color occurs on the edge of their foliage, hosta plants are said to be marginally variegated.. One example is H. 'Francee.' Another is the related H. 'Patriot,' grown in zones 3-8. Hostas With Gold (Yellow) Leaves. Hosta plants with gold leaves should be planted in full sun to bring out their color fully. That color can range from a true gold to a chartreuse, depending on variety, location in the yard, geographical region, etc.