wisp. 1. a handful or small bundle of straw, hay, or the like. 2. any thin tuft, lock, mass, etc.: wisps of hair. 3. a thin puff or streak, as of smoke; slender trace. 4. a person or thing that is small, delicate, or barely discernible. 5. will-o'-the-wisp. 6. to twist into a wisp. 
pictafolio / Getty Images. A wireless Internet provider (sometimes called a wireless ISP or WISP) offers public wireless network services to customers. Wireless ISPs sell residential Internet to households as alternatives to the more traditional types of Internet service like DSL. 
A wisp. Wisps are residual life energy from the Anima Mundi, created by the remnants of Guthix's power. They are found in colonies around Gielinor, with the first one being located near the Lumbridge crater. 
noun. 1 A phosphorescent light seen hovering or floating at night on marshy ground, thought to result from the combustion of natural gases. Example sentences. 1  Pale blue light, the colour of Egewe's hair or a will-o'-the-wisp, filled the room. Origin. Early 17th century: originally as Will with the wisp, the sense of wisp being 'handful of (lighted) hay'. More. jack from Late Middle English: In the Middle Ages Jack, a pet form of John, was used to refer to any ordinary man, much as Tom, Dick, and Harry is today.
Will-o'-the-Wisp. Will-o'-the-Wisp is the most common English designation for a family of fairy-beings characterized by their fiery appearance and their tendency to lead nighttime wayfarers astray. ignis fatuus (foolish fire). Will-o'-the-Wisp is the most common English designation for a family of fairy-beings characterized by their fiery appearance and their tendency to lead nighttime wayfarers astray. The term wisp refers to a twist of straw, used as a torch
For the Badnik, see Whisp. Sonic and the Wisps for the Sonic Colors promo. Wisps (ウィスプ, Uisupu) are a fictional beings from the Sonic the Hedgehog series which first appeared in Sonic Colors. They are an extraterrestrial alien species originate from Planet Wisp. 