Photosynthetic cells contain chlorophyll and other light-sensitive pigments that capture solar energy. In the presence of carbon dioxide, such cells are able to convert this solar energy into energy-rich organic molecules, such as glucose. The green pigment chlorophyll is located within the thylakoid membrane, and the space between the thylakoid and the chloroplast membranes is called the stroma (Figure 3, Figure 4). Figure 3: Structure of a chloroplast. © 2010 Nature Education All rights reserved.
Photosynthesis consists of both light-dependent reactions and light-independent reactions. In plants, the so-called light reactions occur within the chloroplast thylakoids, where the aforementioned chlorophyll pigments reside. The green pigment chlorophyll is located within the thylakoid membrane, and the space between the thylakoid and the chloroplast membranes is called the stroma (Figure 3, Figure 4). Figure 3: Structure of a chloroplast. © 2010 Nature Education All rights reserved.
Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to absorb energy from light. Chlorophyll molecules are specifically arranged in and around photosystems that are embedded in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. In these complexes, chlorophyll serves two primary functions. Chlorophyll (also chlorophyl) is a term used for several closely related green pigments found in cyanobacteria and the chloroplasts of algae and plants. Its name is derived from the Greek words χλωρός, chloros (green) and φύλλον, phyllon (leaf).
Confidence votes 7.7K. The thylakoids contain the chlorophyll. Chlorophyll molecules are embedded in the thylakoid membranes. Together with associated proteins, they form the system for trapping light energy and converting it into chemical form. 
The light reactions convert the energy in sunlight to chemical energy. These reactions depend on molecules built into the membranes of the thylakoids. First, chlorophyll molecules in the membranes capture light energy. Then the chloroplasts use the captured energy to remove electrons from water. This splits the water into oxygen and hydrogen ions. The oxygen is a waste product of photosynthesis. 
Meanwhile, each chlorophyll molecule replaces its lost electron with an electron from water; this process essentially splits water molecules to produce oxygen (Figure 5). Figure 5: The light and dark reactions in the chloroplast. The chloroplast is involved in both stages of photosynthesis. The green pigment chlorophyll is located within the thylakoid membrane, and the space between the thylakoid and the chloroplast membranes is called the stroma (Figure 3, Figure 4). Figure 3: Structure of a chloroplast. © 2010 Nature Education All rights reserved.
The thylakoids contain the chlorophyll. Chlorophyll molecules are embedded in the thylakoid membranes. Together with associated proteins, they form the system for trap … ping light energy and converting it into chemical form. + 4 others found this useful. 'Chlorophyll' describes a class of light-absorbing molecules that plants use to harvest light energy. 'Chloroplast' describes the organelle where chlorophyll molecules are pos … itioned in the cell. 2 people
Chloroplasts are plastids (Small organelles which contain pigment or food) which contain chlorophyll where photosynthesis occurs. Chlorophyll is the green pigment present in … the chloroplast responsible for the absorption of sunlight to provide energy for photosynthesis. 1 person found this useful. 'Chlorophyll' describes a class of light-absorbing molecules that plants use to harvest light energy. 'Chloroplast' describes the organelle where chlorophyll molecules are pos … itioned in the cell. 2 people