Background. Mr. Nicholas Rockefeller has served as the company Director since February 1999. Mr. Rockefeller is an attorney with the law firm of Troop Meisinger Steuber Pasich Reddick & Tobey, LLP, and has been with the firm since June 1997, prior to which he was engaged in the private practice of law for ten years. 
Nicholas Rockefeller has the same background institutionally as his covername DeSouza: Nicholas is a member of the Board of Visitors at the Law Schools of the University of Oregon and Pepperdine University and is active in the affairs of Yale University and Yale Law School, from which he graduated as well. 9-11 Insider Nicholas Rockefeller, predicts 9-11 justified Middle East invasions a year in advance--and only months before 9-11 sees fit as well to start up a pilot project for a cashless society. He has additionally been involved in THREE separate global people monitoring database corporations detailed below.
CLAIM: Aaron Russo was told by Nick Rockefeller, allegedly of the Rockefeller family, 11 months before 9/11 that there would be an event that would cause us to invade Iraq, Afghanistan, and Venezuela, eventually leading to the bankers controlling the world through implanting chips in our bodies. 
Nicholas Rockefeller. His securities practice includes litigation before the United States Supreme Court and a number of his transactions have been featured in leading periodicals. Nicholas' China practice includes transactions with China’s largest banks, energy companies, communications entities and real estate enterprises as well as with China's principal cities and leading provinces.
[This is original reporting, and very timely, please post.] The Very Visible Nicholas Rockefeller's Invisible Panopticon: His United Nations Aired Ideas for a Private Proprietary Database and Technology for a Global Wireless Cashless Consumer Panopticon, all under Nicholas Rockefeller, a 9-11 Insider. 9-11 Insider Nicholas Rockefeller, predicts 9-11 justified Middle East invasions a year in advance--and only months before 9-11 sees fit as well to start up a pilot project for a cashless society. He has additionally been involved in THREE separate global people monitoring database corporations detailed below.
This is very IMPORTANT. The man Aaron Russo is talking about does NOT EXIST. There is no Nicholas Rockefeller in the famous Rockefeller family with close ties to the United States government. Please spead this video around to all the YouTube channels with the historic interview Alex Jones had with Aaron Russo
David Rockefeller (born June 12, 1915) is an American banker who served as chairman and chief executive of Chase Manhattan Corporation. He is the oldest living member of the Rockefeller family and family patriarch since July 2004. Rockefeller is also the only surviving child of John D. Rockefeller, Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, and the only surviving grandchild of John D. Rockefeller and Laura Spelman Rockefeller.
Nicholas Rockefeller is vice chairman and chief legal officer of the RockVest Group of Investors and is involved in various banking and commercial projects in China and worldwide. 
And that single controller of Nicholas Rockefeller is a 9-11 Insider--who Aaron Russo says is obsessed with global monitoring, and with creating a papers please fascist police state. 9-11 Insider Nicholas Rockefeller, predicts 9-11 justified Middle East invasions a year in advance--and only months before 9-11 sees fit as well to start up a pilot project for a cashless society. He has additionally been involved in THREE separate global people monitoring database corporations detailed below.