1 Make or shape (a metal object) by heating it in a fire or furnace and hammering it: he forged a great suit of black armour. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  For a dark blade such as this, the metal is forged in a magical fire of burning ice. 
A forging press, often just called a press, is used for press forging. There are two main types: mechanical and hydraulic presses. Mechanical presses function by using cams, cranks and/or toggles to produce a preset (a predetermined force at a certain location in the stroke) and reproducible stroke. In open-die forging, a hammer strikes and deforms the workpiece, which is placed on a stationary anvil. Open-die forging gets its name from the fact that the dies (the surfaces that are in contact with the workpiece) do not enclose the workpiece, allowing it to flow except where contacted by the dies.
The die contains the shape of the finished product. Modern manufacturers use either a falling hammer or a powered hammer to do the hammering (rather than doing it by hand), and usually use dies on both sides of the piece. This is drop forging. Manufacturers now use many different techniques to forge metal. Four of the most common include: 1  Drop forging-Hammering hot metal into dies. 2  Press forging-instead of forcing hot metal into a die with a hammer blow, it is pressed into the die with hydraulic pressure. 3  Roll forging-The hot metal is pressed between two rollers.
1. a. To form (metal, for example) by heating in a forge and beating or hammering into shape. b. To form (metal) by a mechanical or hydraulic press. 2. To give form or shape to, especially by means of careful effort: forge a treaty; forge a close relationship. 
The Difference Between Casting & Forging. Casting is the process where metal is heated until molten. While in the molten or liquid state it is poured into a mold or vessel to create a desired shape. Forging is the application of thermal and mechanical energy to steel billets or ingots to cause the material to change shape while in a solid state. 
Answer: A forged knife is made of a single bar of steel, which is heated and then pounded into shape, often by a specially trained craftsman. The alternative is a stamped knife, in which the blade is stamped or cut out from a large sheet of steel, and then the blade is honed and heat-treated for durability. A forged knife is typically heavier by several ounces than a stamped knife.
Introduction. Forging is the process by which metal is heated and is shaped by plastic deformation by suitably applying compressive force. Usually the compressive force is in the form of hammer blows using a power hammer or a press. Forging refines the grain structure and improves physical properties of the metal. With proper design, the grain flow can be oriented in the direction of principal stresses encountered in actual use.
The blows are delivered with a hammer (often a power hammer) or a die. Forging is often classified according to the temperature at which it is performed: cold forging (a type of cold working), warm forging, or hot forging (a type of hot working). For the latter two, the metal is heated, usually in a forge. In open-die forging, a hammer strikes and deforms the workpiece, which is placed on a stationary anvil. Open-die forging gets its name from the fact that the dies (the surfaces that are in contact with the workpiece) do not enclose the workpiece, allowing it to flow except where contacted by the dies.
Definition. Manufacturing process in which a piece of (usually hot) metal is formed into the desired shape by hammering, pressing, rolling, squeezing, and other such operations in one or more forging equipment.