Causes of Edema. Edema is a normal response of the body to inflammation or injury. For example, a twisted ankle, a bee sting, or a skin infection will all result in edema in the involved area. In some cases, such as in an infection, this may be beneficial. It is a general response of the body to injury or inflammation. Edema can be isolated to a small area or affect the entire body. Medications, infections, pregnancy, and many medical problems can cause edema. Edema results whenever small blood vessels become leaky and release fluid into nearby tissues.
(May 2012). A Soft tissue injury (STI) is the damage of muscles, ligaments and tendons throughout the body. Common soft tissue injuries usually occur from a sprain, strain, a one off blow resulting in a contusion or overuse of a particular part of the body. Soft tissue injuries can result in pain, swelling, bruising and loss of function (Lovering, 2008). 
A contusion (bruise) is an injury to the soft tissue often produced by a blunt force, such as a kick, fall, or blow. The result will be pain, swelling, and discoloration because of bleeding into the tissue. Treatment for contusions includes Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation (R.I.C.E.). 
soft tissue. Any noncalcified tissue in the body. This term is especially used in relation to muscles, tendons, ligaments, skin, fat, and other connective tissues that are occasionally the source of pain when they are injured. connective tissue the stromatous or nonparenchymatous tissues of the body; that which binds together and is the ground substance of the various parts and organs of the body. elastic tissue, elastic tissue, yellow connective tissue made up of yellow elastic fibers, frequently massed into sheets.
Tissue swelling: A condition which is characterized by the swelling of tissues of the body. See detailed information below for a list of 6 causes of Tissue swelling, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Tissue swelling: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 
Bursitis and tendinitis are conditions that are also known as soft tissue rheumatic syndromes. A syndrome is a group of signs and symptoms that occur together and indicate a particular problem. This type of syndrome produces pain, swelling, or inflammation in the tissues and structures around a joint, such as the tendons, ligaments, bursae, and muscles. Because the structures affected by soft tissue rheumatic syndromes are near joints, pain in these areas may be mistaken for arthritis. The difference is that arthritis means inflammation in the joint itself, not in the structures around the joint.
Initial symptoms Pain is the main symptom of soft tissue rheumatic syndromes. Because the structures affected are located near the joint, moving the joint can be extremely painful and may be extremely difficult. Some conditions may cause redness, warmth, or swelling in the affected area. If fever, chills, persistent redness, or swelling occur in a person with soft tissue rheumatic syndrome, the person should see a doctor immediately to rule out infection. Because the structures affected by soft tissue rheumatic syndromes are near joints, pain in these areas may be mistaken for arthritis. The difference is that arthritis means inflammation in the joint itself, not in the structures around the joint.
Soft-tissue injuries fall into two basic categories: acute injuries and overuse injuries. 1  Acute injuries are caused by a sudden trauma, such as a fall, twist, or blow to the body. 2  Examples of an acute injury include sprains, strains, and contusions. A sprained ankle can occur when your foot turns inward, placing extreme tension on the ligaments of your outer ankle. A sprained knee can be the result of a sudden twist, and a wrist sprain can occur when falling on an outstretched hand. A twisting force to the lower leg or foot is a common cause of ankle sprains.
1 A sign of adult soft tissue sarcoma is a lump or swelling in soft tissue of the body. 2  Adult soft tissue sarcoma is diagnosed with a biopsy. 3  Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery). Key Points. 1  Adult soft tissue sarcoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the soft tissues of the body. 2  Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of adult soft tissue sarcoma. 3 