Appearance. Acnologia's Current Appearance. Acnologia is a gargantuan, massive black Dragon whose entire upper body is covered in black, round, scales, which in turn are decorated by spiraling, blue markings. His lower body, rather his belly, inner tail, and legs, are grey in color, and appear to be rather smooth. With what would be the aid of the Black mage, Zeref, Acnologia ended up becoming a dragon and as a result declared himself to be the Dragon King. This event led to the creation of the Festival of the Dragon King, to which it would forever be eitched into history.
Acnologia is a mastodonic dragon whose entire upper body, is covered in black, round scales, which in turn are decorated by spiraling, blue markings. Its lower body, specifically its belly, inner tail and legs, is grey in color, and seems to be rather smooth. Acnologia as a human before transforming into a Dragon. For many years, Acnologia was feared by the people of Earth Land, as he was credited with the single-handed destruction of an entire country. At some point of time, Acnologia ran into Gildarts Clive when the Mage was on his 100 year quest on Zonia Mountain.
And I shall slay you. . Acnologia (アクノロギア Akunorogia), also known as The Black Dragon (黒龍, Kokuryū), and fearsomely reputed as The Black Dragon in the Book of Apocalypse, is a cataclysmically powerful human being that can take the form of a Dragon that assaulted the Fairy Tail Mages on Tenrou Island in the Year X784.
#7. I'm going to guess Etherion. Only because of the color....Acnologia is black with blue markings, and when he used his dragon roar it was a brilliant blue light. I would assume darkness or shadow or death would be black, not blue. But the Etherion Lacryma crystal was that same color. So that is my assumption. Ratings: I'm going to guess Etherion. Only because of the color....Acnologia is black with blue markings, and when he used his dragon roar it was a brilliant blue light. I would assume darkness or shadow or death would be black, not blue.
222 pages on this wiki. Acnologia (アクノロギア Akunorogia), also known as The Black Dragon (黒龍, Kokuryū), fearsomely known as The Black Dragon in the Book of Apocalypse, is a powerful dragon in the popular Japanese series, Fairy Tail. With what would be the aid of the Black mage, Zeref, Acnologia ended up becoming a dragon and as a result declared himself to be the Dragon King. This event led to the creation of the Festival of the Dragon King, to which it would forever be eitched into history.
Acnologia (アクノロギア Akunorogia), also known and fearsomely reputed as  The Black Dragon  in the Book of Apocalypse, is a puissant Dragon and an enemy of humanity. He is one of the main antagonists of Fairy Tail. Acnologia as a human before transforming into a Dragon. For many years, Acnologia was feared by the people of Earth Land, as he was credited with the single-handed destruction of an entire country. At some point of time, Acnologia ran into Gildarts Clive when the Mage was on his 100 year quest on Zonia Mountain.
Acnologia as a Dragon. As a Dragon, Acnologia is mastodonic, and has an entire upper body covered in black, round, scales, which, in turn, are decorated by spiraling, blue markings. His lower body, specifically his chin, chest, stomach, inner tail, thighs, and arms, are gray in color, and appear to be rather smooth. . Acnologia (アクノロギア Akunorogia), also known as The Black Dragon (黒龍, Kokuryū), and fearsomely reputed as The Black Dragon in the Book of Apocalypse, is a cataclysmically powerful human being that can take the form of a Dragon that assaulted the Fairy Tail Mages on Tenrou Island in the Year X784.
Acnologia, the Black Dragon. Dragon Roar: As all dragons and Dragon Slayers, Acnologia can perform a breath attack of its element. It is unknown what such element is, but once it's fired in the form of a giant beam it is capable of causing a huge explosion, which was enough create a gigantic crater in the water. ✔. Acnologia as a human before transforming into a Dragon. For many years, Acnologia was feared by the people of Earth Land, as he was credited with the single-handed destruction of an entire country. At some point of time, Acnologia ran into Gildarts Clive when the Mage was on his 100 year quest on Zonia Mountain.
Born as a human over 400 years ago, Acnologia was among one of the first humans who became Dragon Slayers in which he and his fellow Dragon Slayers would participate in the Dragon Civil War. He and his fellow Dragon Slayers were selected in order to support the side that was desiring coexistence with humans. With what would be the aid of the Black mage, Zeref, Acnologia ended up becoming a dragon and as a result declared himself to be the Dragon King. This event led to the creation of the Festival of the Dragon King, to which it would forever be eitched into history.