1 Diplomatic sanctions-the reduction or removal of diplomatic ties, such as embassies. 2  Economic sanctions-typically a ban on trade, possibly limited to certain sectors such as armaments, or with certain exceptions (such as food and medicine). International sanctions are actions taken by countries against others for political reasons, either unilaterally or multilaterally. There are several types of sanctions. 1 
An example of a trade sanction is the set of stringent penalties the United States' imposed against Cuba from 1963 to 2000. In the year 2000 some of the sanctions were repealed, specifically those on medical and agriculture goods. 
Thus, while unilateral U.S. economic sanctions prevent new U.S. investment, Japan, Singapore, and other Southeast Asian countries are pouring funds into Myanmar. The only country that is being isolated by unilateral U.S. economic sanctions against Myanmar is the United States itself. Non-Economic Sanctions A sender country also may apply non-economic sanctions against a target country to persuade its government to change policy. In contrast to economic sanctions, which are intended to penalize a target country financially, non-economic sanctions are aimed at denying legitimacy or prestige.
Economic sanctions are domestic penalties applied unilaterally by one country (or multilaterally, by a group of countries) on another country (or group of countries). Economic sanctions may include various forms of trade barriers and restrictions on financial transactions. Regime change is the most frequent foreign policy objective of economic sanctions. There is controversy over the effectiveness of economic sanctions in their ability to achieve the stated purpose.
Economic sanctions are used as a tool of foreign policy by many governments. Economic sanctions are usually imposed by a larger country upon a smaller country for one of two reasons – either the latter is a threat to the security of the former nation or that country treats its citizens unfairly. Regime change is the most frequent foreign policy objective of economic sanctions. There is controversy over the effectiveness of economic sanctions in their ability to achieve the stated purpose.
Economic sanctions are not necessarily imposed because of economic circumstances — they may also be imposed for a variety of political and social issues. Economic sanctions can be used for achieving domestic political gain. Regime change is the most frequent foreign policy objective of economic sanctions. There is controversy over the effectiveness of economic sanctions in their ability to achieve the stated purpose.
Outside of the United Nations and the WTO, sanctions may be imposed unilaterally by a single country, as the United States did against Nicaragua in the 1980s, or multilaterally by a group of countries, as the Arab States have done against Israel. Sanctions, like tariffs, are a barrier to free trade. Although some sanctions have resulted in the desired political or economic objectives, their effectiveness as a foreign policy tool can also be called into question.
Throughout most of modern history, economic sanctions have preceded or accompanied war, often in the form of a naval blockade intended to weaken the enemy. Only when the horrors of World War I prompted President Woodrow Wilson to call for an alternative to armed conflict were economic sanctions seriously considered. Judging the effectiveness of sanctions requires sorting out the various goals sought, analyzing whether the type and scope of the chosen sanction were appropriate to the occasion, and determining the economic and political impacts on the target country.
Unilateral sanctions are typically imposed by one country on another for the purpose of applying pressure or in retaliation for certain economic or political policies. The United States first imposed sanctions for the purpose of opening another country's market to American products in 1988. In an effort to open the Japanese market for cellular telephones, the United States resorted to trade sanctions against selected Japanese products in 1994. Sanctions, like tariffs, are a barrier to free trade. Although some sanctions have resulted in the desired political or economic objectives, their effectiveness as a foreign policy tool can also be called into question.