Subscription redirects here. For the subscription process for shares etc., see Subscription (finance) . The subscription business model is a business model where a customer must pay a subscription price to have access to the product/service. The model was pioneered by magazines and newspapers, but is now used by many businesses and websites
[countable] an agreement to pay an amount of money so that you will receive something such as a magazine or a service. You take out a subscription, usually for a year, and renew it if you want to continue the arrangement for another year. This is the British English definition of subscription. View American English definition of subscription. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for
Save. subscription /səbˈskrɪpʃən/ noun. plural subscriptions. subscription. /səbˈskrɪpʃən/. noun. plural subscriptions. Learner's definition of SUBSCRIPTION. 1. : an agreement that you make with a company to get a publication or service regularly and that you usually pay for in advance. [count]. a magazine/newspaper subscription = a subscription to a magazine/newspaper. Annual/monthly subscriptions cost $20. She bought a subscription. = She took out a subscription.
Noun. 1. subscription-a payment for consecutive issues of a newspaper or magazine for a given period of time. payment-a sum of money paid or a claim discharged.
Vide To sign. 2. By subscription is also understood the act by which a person contracts, in writing, to furnish a sum of money for a particular purpose; as, a subscription to a charitable institution, a subscription for a book, for a newspaper, and the like. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
DEFINITION of 'Subscription Agreement'. An application by an investor to join a limited partnership. In most cases, the investor will have to fill out a form created by the general partner evaluating the investor's suitability for the investment in the partnership. Next Up. 
Definition of SUBSCRIPTION TV. : pay-TV that broadcasts programs directly over the air to customers provided with a special receiver —called also subscription television — compare pay-cable, pay-tv. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Full Definition of SUBSCRIPTION. 1. a: the act of signing one's name (as in attesting or witnessing a document) b: the acceptance (as of ecclesiastical articles of faith) attested by the signing of one's name. 2. : an agreement that you make with a company to get a publication or service regularly and that you usually pay for in advance. : a fee that you pay regularly to belong to or support an organization.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a subscription is an agreement you make in advance to receive something for a specific period of time. When you make an arrangement to have a magazine delivered every month, this is an example of a subscription. 