Lanolin is a waxy substance derived from sheep’s wool, and is sometimes referred to as wool wax, wool grease and, less frequently, wool fat. In nature, the lanolin that sheep secrete makes their wool water-resistant and protects their coats from the environment. Lanolin is a byproduct of wool farming (an inherently cruel industry) and is gathered after the sheep has been shorn. The fleece is cleaned through a process called scouring, in which it is submerged in a hot detergent solution. The lanolin is then collected from the solution by high-speed centrifugation.
Lanolin (from Latin lāna, ‘wool’, and oleum, ‘oil’), also called wool wax or wool grease, is a wax secreted by the sebaceous glands of wool-bearing animals. Lanolin used by humans comes from domestic sheep breeds that are raised specifically for their wool. Historically, many pharmacopoeias have referred to lanolin as wool fat (adeps lanae); however, as lanolin lacks glycerides (glycerol esters), it is not a true fat. Lanolin primarily consists of sterol esters instead. The wool from one Merino sheep will produce about 250–300 ml of recoverable wool grease. Lanolin is extracted by washing the wool in hot water with a special wool scouring detergent to remove dirt, wool grease (crude lanolin), suint (sweat salts), and anything else stuck to the wool.
A) Merino Lanolin contains no pesticide or pesticide residue. First it comes from New Zealand where pristine environment is highly renowned and zealously guarded. Second, through the use of stringent testing and quality control only the purest form of Lanolin is used in the manufacture of Merino. 
4 Answers. 0. Lanolin comes from the fleece of sheep after shearing. The sheep is shorn, the wool is washed and the raw wool grease remains. This material undergoes a series of refinements that results in our ultra pure lanolin. One hundred pounds of wool will yield about two to four pounds of lanolin. It is a natural and renewable raw material not a processed synthetic compound.
Lanolin comes from sheep's wool. To be perfectly correct, it is wool grease (not to be confused with fat, which would require that it contain glycerides). While we're being technical, the composition of lanolin actually places it in the wax category. 
How to Extract Lanolin from Sheep's Wool. Sheep's wool contains lanolin as a form of protection against nature and insects. Human use of lanolin is as old as the use of wool. Extracting it is easy to do at home and is a great way to get lanolin that is pure, free of industrial chemicals and ready for use in homemade products. Ad
Well, I learned that lanolin is a fatty, yellowish substance that comes from the wool of sheep. It is excreted by the sebaceous glands on their skin, and acts as waterproofing so they don't get cold. You might also hear it called wool fat, wool wax, or wool grease. I prefer to call it lanolin-it just sounds classier. Sheep are not harmed in the process of harvesting (for lack of a better word) lanolin. When sheep farmers sheer their sheep to get the wool (about once a year), they then extract the greasy Vaseline-like lanolin from the sheared wool before they wash it.
It comes from lanolin found in sheep's wool. Therefore, you're getting the natural, more potent D3 instead of the weaker D2. Each batch is tested for effective absorption. In fact, their tablet dissolves within 45 minutes of you taking it. 
In this clip from Edwardian Farm, Ruth Goodman extracts lanolin from sheep's wool. Lanolin, also called wool wax or wool grease, is a yellow waxy substance secreted by the sebaceous glands of wool-bearing animals. Most lanolin used by humans comes fromdomestic sheep breeds that are raised specifically for their wool. Lanolin primarily consists of sterol esters.