Plantar fibromatosis is a rare condition in which benign (non-cancerous) tumors called plantar fibromas grow on the bottom (plantar surface) of the foot. The plantar fascia is a long band of connective tissue that runs from the heel to the toes on the bottom of the foot. Plantar fibromas are firm masses that grow slowly along the plantar fascia, and they contain excess collagen or fibrotic tissue. They can be present in one or both feet.
Causes of Plantar Fibromatosis. An exact cause of plantar fibromatosis is unknown; however, there are some potential causes that most doctors agree may play a role in the condition. Trauma. Trauma to the plantar fascia is thought to be a primary cause of plantar fibromatosis. The trauma may be from a puncture through the bottom of the foot or from repetitive impact from activities such as running or climbing.
Plantar fascial fibromatosis, also known as Ledderhose's disease, Morbus Ledderhose, and plantar fibromatosis, is a relatively uncommon non-malignant thickening of the feet's deep connective tissue, or fascia. In the beginning, where nodules or cords start growing along tendons of the foot, the disease is minor. As in most forms of fibromatosis, it is usually benign and its onset varies with each patient. The nodules are typically slow growing and most often found in the central and medial portions of the plantar fascia. Occasionally, the nodules may lie dormant for months to years only to begin rapid and unexpected growth.
Plantar Fibromatosis. Plantar Fibromatosis is a foot condition where a small nodule grows in the arch of the foot on the plantar fascia. It is a benign growth (i.e. non-cancerous) which tends to be slow growing and usually less than an inch in size. It runs between the heel and the toes, helping to support the arches of the foot. In plantar fibromatosis, thickenings develop in the plantar fascia forming small nodules, usually in the central or medial portions of the plantar fascia. There may be one solitary nodule or a cluster of nodules may develop
In more severe cases, custom orthotics may be prescribed to alleviate the pain and prevent overpronation. Plantar Fibroma. Plantar fibromas are benign tissue tumors or growths on the plantar, or bottom surface of the foot. Unlike plantar warts, which grow on the skin, these grow deep inside on a thick fibrous band of ligaments, called the plantar fascia. 
Plantar fibromas reside in the deep fascia of the foot between the skin and the first (superficial) layers of muscle. The more aggressive condition of plantar fibromatosis may involve the skin and the muscle layers and may also wrap around the local digital nerves and arteries. Painful fibromas may be treated with an off-loading insole or pad. Surgery is done for symptomatic fibromas when conservative treatment fails to give adequate pain relief. The recurrence rate is low for fibromas and significantly higher for plantar fibromatosis and in revision cases.
Tweet. Plantar fibroma and plantar fibromatosis – the difference being that plantar fibromatosis is a more aggressive, larger, and rapidly escalating version of plantar fibroma – refer to different degrees of an injury that afflicts the plantar fascia. In contrast, plantar fibroma and plantar fibromatosis are actual deformities… or knots (you’ll actually be able to see and feel a pronounced lump at the sole of your foot) that form at the plantar fascia. The good news is that both are benign and readily treatable.
A plantar fibroma is a benign nodule that grows on the bottom of the foot and usually appears in the second through sixth decade of life. Painful fibromas may be treated with an off-loading insole or pad. Surgery is done for symptomatic fibromas when conservative treatment fails to give adequate pain relief. The recurrence rate is low for fibromas and significantly higher for plantar fibromatosis and in revision cases.