DEFINITION of 'Zero Balance Account-ZBA'. A checking account in which a balance of zero is maintained by automatically transferring funds from a master account in an amount only large enough to cover checks presented. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Zero Balance Account-ZBA'. A zero balance account is used by corporations to eliminate excess balances in separate accounts and maintain greater control over disbursements.
Balance Confirmation letter is most Important for both of You. I write a letter for the Customer. This is Customer Balance Confirmation Letter Sample. Date:30-06-2014. 
Zero-Balance Account (ZBA) Law & Legal Definition. A bank checking account accepting deposits, making disbursements and always maintaining a zero balance is a Zero-Balance Account(ZBA). In ZBA, zero balance is maintained by transferring just enough funds from or to an account to makeup each day’s activity. The amount in the account is only large enough to cover checks presented. The main account is known as parent account and the subsidiary account is the daughter account
When to Print this Report. The Zero Balance Letter report prints a letter to the parent or guardian informing them of their child’s zero account balance. Print this report when you want to send or mails letters home information guardians of zero balances on children's account. These letters print for adults with zero balances as well. This letter will print in Spanish if the customer’s language is set to Spanish on the Customer | Information tab. If there are no matching records for the selected range, the program will leave the top portion of the letter blank, and the text of the letter will print in both English and Spanish text.
The Zero Balance letter is a letter that you receive from the CC company saying that as of x date. your account balance is zero. You then fax or send this to the CB agency and wait for your score(s). ‎08-26-2009 06:05 PM. The Zero Balance letter is a letter that you recieve from the CC company saying that as of x date. your account balance is zero. You then fax or send this to the CB agency and wait for your score(s). to take a jump!!
AAA |. A checking account in which a balance of zero is maintained by automatically transferring funds from a master account in an amount only large enough to cover checks presented. BREAKING DOWN 'Zero Balance Account-ZBA'. A zero balance account is used by corporations to eliminate excess balances in separate accounts and maintain greater control over disbursements.
tommiej7533 wrote:The Zero Balance letter is a letter that you receive from the CC company saying that as of x dateyour account balance is zero. You then fax or send this to the CB agency and wait for your score(s)to take a jump!! Hopefully!! ‎08-26-2009 06:05 PM. The Zero Balance letter is a letter that you recieve from the CC company saying that as of x date. your account balance is zero. You then fax or send this to the CB agency and wait for your score(s). to take a jump
Definition. ZBA. A checking account which always maintains a balance of zero. Whenever the corporation needs to write a check, they transfer money into the account for the exact sum for which the check will be written, so that once the check is cashed there will once again be a balance of zero in the account. This helps the corporation avoid having money in too many different places.