By learning about the .NET environment, you can gain an understanding of what .NET is and what it means to you. You learn about the parts of .NET, including the Common Language Runtime (CLR), the .NET Framework Class Library, and how .NET supports multiple languages. 
Part of the Internet technologies glossary: As part of Microsoft's .NET Framework, the Common Language Runtime (CLR) is programming that manages the execution of programs written in any of several supported languages, allowing them to share common object-oriented class es written in any of the languages. 
You will also understand the relationship between various aspect of .NET framework, such as Common Type System (CTS) and the Common Language Specification (CLS). This article discusses the advantage of the .NET framework and managed code. The .NET framework is the set of platform libraries and components that constitute .NET API. The .NET framework is factored into several components such as CLR (Virtual Machine)-that is responsible for executing
I'm confused about the purpose of the CLS (Common Language Specification) in the .NET Framework. My understanding is that, with .NET, we can write a library with one language and use it in another language, and that the CLR enables this functionality. I do know that the purpose of the CLS is to fully interact with other objects regardless of the language they were implemented in. Microsoft has defined the Common Language Specification (CLS) that details for compiler vendors the minimum set of features their compiler must support, if these compilers are to generate types compatible with other components written by other CLS compliant languages on top of the CLR.
The Common Language Specification describes a common level of language functionality. The CLS is a set of rules that a language compiler must adhere to in order to create .NET applications that run in the CLR. Anyone who wants to write a .NET·-compliant compiler needs simply to adhere to these rules and that's it. The common language specification (CLS) is a collection of rules and restrictions that allow interoperation between languages. Even though the CLI does not require compilers to follow CLS, code that follows the CLS rules is compatible with all other languages that follow the CLS rules.
The Common Language Infrastructure (CLI) is an open specification developed by Microsoft and standardized by ISO and ECMA that describes executable code and a runtime environment that allow multiple high-level languages to be used on different computer platforms without being rewritten for specific architectures. 
The Common Language Specification is a set of basic language features (constructs and constraints) that serves as a guide for library writers and compiler writers. It allows libraries to be fully usable from any language supporting the CLS, and for those languages to integrate with each other. The common language specification (CLS) is a collection of rules and restrictions that allow interoperation between languages. Even though the CLI does not require compilers to follow CLS, code that follows the CLS rules is compatible with all other languages that follow the CLS rules.
Common Language Specification-CLS. Common Language Specification (CLS) is a set of basic language features that .Net Languages needed to develop Applications and Services, which are compatible with the .Net Framework. Common Language Specification (CLS) ensures complete interoperability among applications, regardless of the language used to create the application. Common Language Specification (CLS) defines a subset of Common Type System (CTS) . Common Type System (CTS) describes a set of types that can use different .Net languages have in common, which ensure that objects written in different languages can interact with each other
SiteMap | About. Common Language Specification (CLS) is a set of basic language features that .Net Languages needed to develop Applications and Services, which are compatible with the .Net Framework. Common Language Specification (CLS) ensures complete interoperability among applications, regardless of the language used to create the application. Common Language Specification (CLS) defines a subset of Common Type System (CTS) . Common Type System (CTS) describes a set of types that can use different .Net languages have in common, which ensure that objects written in different languages can interact with each other