When turning right, approach the roundabout in any lane marked for turning right (usually the right-hand lane), indicating right. As you pass the exit before the one you want to take, signal left. If there are two lanes on your exit road then you will exit onto the right-hand lane. The left-hand lane traffic can also turn right. Any vehicle wanting to turn into the road at X would use the left hand lane. If there are no lanes marked on a one-way street and you want to turn right, make the right turn from the right-hand side of the road, as shown in diagram R below.
You may think you can turn right from any lane on a roundabout. But that's not the rule. On a multi-lane roundabout, you should turn right from the right lane. You can only turn right from the left hand lane of a roundabout if the road markings indicate that you can do so. So, if the arrows on the road don't indicate otherwise, turning right from the left hand lane is illegal. When to turn off a multi-lane roundabout. You can position your car to be in the correct lane at a roundabout by looking for signs, lane markings and arrows when approaching the roundabout. Unless traffic lane arrows indicate otherwise, if you want to: 1  turn left, use the left lane. 2  turn right, use the right lane. 3  go straight ahead, use either lane
On approach you must be in the right lane unless otherwise marked on the road, and indicate a right turn. You must give way to traffic already on the roundabout if there is any risk of a collision. Enter the roundabout when there is a safe gap in the traffic. Stay in the right lane. You must indicate a left turn just before your exit unless it is not practical to do so. Indicating When approaching a roundabout, if you are turning left or right, you must indicate left or right. When exiting a roundabout, whether you are turning left, right or even going straight ahead, you must always indicate a left turn just before you exit,
1 if safe, enter the right lane of the roundabout. 2  keep in the right lane around the roundabout. 3  when passing the road before your exit road, give a change of direction signal to the left. 4  leave by the right lane of your exit road and. 5  cancel the left signal. 1 give a change of direction signal early to go right. 2  if safe, enter the right lane of the roundabout. 3  keep in the right lane around the roundabout. 4
On approach you must be in the left lane unless otherwise marked on the road, and indicate a left turn. You must give way to traffic already on the roundabout if there is any risk of a collision. Enter the roundabout when there is a safe gap in the traffic. Stay in the right lane. You must indicate a left turn just before your exit unless it is not practical to do so. Indicating When approaching a roundabout, if you are turning left or right, you must indicate left or right. When exiting a roundabout, whether you are turning left, right or even going straight ahead, you must always indicate a left turn just before you exit,
If you are following the road ahead on a main route (eg dual carriageway) you can often go ahead in either lane. If you approach on the left then you should stay to the left in new road, if you take the right hand lane on approach stay on the inside of the roundabout and exit in the right hand lane in new road. Looking for Lane Markings. If the lane markings show that you can use either lane following the road ahead: If you approach on the left then you should stay to the left in new road, if you take the right hand lane on approach stay on the inside of the roundabout and exit in the right hand lane in new road.
Turning right (Exit 3 on diagram). Signal right on approach and use the right hand lane and stay on the inside of the roundabout until you pass the last exit that is just before your turn (Exit 2 on diagram). Check mirrors and signal left to confirm your intentions to exit the roundabout. Looking for Lane Markings. If the lane markings show that you can use either lane following the road ahead: If you approach on the left then you should stay to the left in new road, if you take the right hand lane on approach stay on the inside of the roundabout and exit in the right hand lane in new road.