Ideally, the water should be at least 78 degrees for a Betta. Because Bettas are often kept in small tanks or bowls, heating can be a challenge. Changes in room temperature, especially in climates that become much colder at night, can prove stessfull for a Betta. 
Report Abuse. You will need a heater to keep the temp at a steady temp between 78-82 degrees. I keep my betta's 5.5 gallon tank at 78 degrees. Btw the tank should be 5+ gallons if not, with heater, filter, lid and light, thermometer if not built in the heater, etc etc. You NEVER buy a pet without research. 
The best water temperature for betta fish is around 74-78 Fahrenheit, or 23-25 Celsius. Your betta will generally be fine if the water temperature is slightly out of this range (72-80 F), but 74-78 is what their natural habitat of rice paddies in Thailand and other southeast asian countries contains. Slightly warmer water temperature for Betta fish (80-82 F) can be used if your betta is sick and needs to be quarantined or separated from other fish while he is being treated with medication.
Best Betta Fish Water Temperature. The best water temperature for your Betta fish is within a range. Bettas are tropical fish and so they like their water a little warmer-but not too warm. Consistency in water temperature is also important. The optimal range of water temperature for your Betta fish is 74 -78 degrees Fahrenheit. 
just keep it at room temperature. If you clean the tank, have your Betta stay in a different container of water and leave the tank full of water (sink water) and keep out for … about 5 to 15 minutes. put aquamarin in it and stir.
Keep your Betta in a tank of at least 10 gallons (about 38 liters), and make sure that a minimum of 5 gallons (19 liters) of your tank space is dedicated to the Betta. This will provide sufficient space for your Betta and will allow the tank to help you keep healthy fish. Your Betta's temperature should never drop below 74° Fahrenheit (about 23.5° Celsius), and ideally should remain between 78° and 80° F (25.5° and 26.5 C), so you will need a heater and a thermometer.
Betta Water Temperature. Bettas need a water temperature between 76 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. This is slightly above room temperature in most houses. In the wild, bettas live in warm rice paddies with low water circulation, high oxygen and stable, warm temperatures. You should reproduce these circumstances for your fish.
But it’s not perfect for your bettas. Now the ideal water temperature for beta fish is 75-80ºF (24-27ºC). Betta Splendens, being tropical fish and all, prefer water in the warmer temperature range. Temperatures too cool and you’re exposing your fish to disease. How often you need to change the water depends on the size of the tank (note not bowl), whether you have a filter, and the number of fish. Depending on those factors you may need to do water changes every other day, weekly or twice a week. Changing 10%, 25% or half the water or more.
The most effective way to heat your fish's water is to use a small water heater. Water should not be higher than 80 degrees, so ensure that the heater doesn't overheat the water; many water heaters are too large and produce too much heat for bettas because bettas are often kept in small two-to 10-gallon tanks. This is slightly above room temperature in most houses. In the wild, bettas live in warm rice paddies with low water circulation, high oxygen and stable, warm temperatures. You should reproduce these circumstances for your fish.