Origin of the name Claire: Derived from the Latin clārus (bright, clear, famous). Clare is a common name throughout Europe and the British Isles, its popularity once due in part to the fame of St. Clare of Assisi (c. 1193 - 1253). The Italian nun who founded the order of the Poor Clares. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. I named my daughter Clara Jane. I love her name. It has a classic wise feel to the name. It is not a popular name. I didn't want my daughter to be one of 10 kids with the same name in her classroom.
Clare is a given name, the Medieval English form of Clara. The related name Clair was traditionally considered male, especially when spelled without an 'e', but Clare and Claire are usually female. It is very often associated with the Irish County Clare. 
Clara /cla-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Clara is bright, famous. Post-classical name from the feminine form of the adjective clarus. In the modern English-speaking world, it represents a re-Latinization of the normal English form Clare. Also a nickanme for Clarissa. Clara is a very popular first name for women (#144 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#22870 out of 150436, Top 15%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Clara for girls
Clara means famously bright in Latin. Once very popular, it has now fallen out of style. Not as popular as its variant 'Claire'. This name can be given to both baby boys and girls. It is a unisex name. Origins. Clara originates from the Latin language. See other suggested Latin baby names. Popularity. See worldwide popularity rankings of Clara as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby girl name, Clara is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 285 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) .
The name Clarus was borne by a few early saints. The feminine form was popularized by the 13th-century Saint Clare of Assisi (called Chiara in Italian), a friend and follower of Saint Francis, who left her wealthy family to found the order of nuns known as the Poor Clares. 
The meaning of the name Clara: Illustrious. The origin of the name Clara: Latin. People who like the name Clara also like: Charlotte, Claire, Amelia, Ella, Violet, Alice, Audrey. Henry, Oliver, Noah, Liam, William, Benjamin, Owen. Notes: Clara is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Clara is illustrious. The most common nickname for the name Clara is Claire. Clara Bow was a famous actress. Clara Barton was a famous nurse. Clara Luper was an American civil rights activist.
Comments and insights on the name Clara: | Edit. I named my daughter Clara Jane. I love her name. It has a classic wise feel to the name. It is not a popular name. I didn't want my daughter to be one of 10 kids with the same name in her classroom. It's just different enough for me... and suits her perfectly
Comments and insights on the name Clare: | Edit. Clare has a range of variants: Clarice, Clarissa, Clare, Clair, Clarinda, Claribel, Esclairmonde, and Clarimond. Names with the same meaning in other languages: Bertha/Berte (German); Gwen (Welsh); Fiona (Irish, kind of); Chiara (Italian); Clara (Latin); Claire (French);
In American the meaning of the name Clara is: Bright. Latin Meaning: The name Clara is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Clara is: From the feminine form of the Latin adjective 'clarus' meaning bright or clear. Also distinguished. Famous bearer: Twelfth century St Clare (or Clara) of Assisi founded the Poor Clares order of nuns.