Lastly, just be sure to deliver in your email what you promise in your subject line. If there is a disconnect there, your crafty, clickbait subject line will get them to open the email, but they might not send such a happy response. Make it personal. Using an email template for cold emails is fine.
Sending Cold Emails That Receive a Response. I've been a cold emailer for a little while now, but I've learned so much. Every person is different. Some people want only to say thanks, while others are willing to go the whole way -- to help you, to give you advice, even give you free stuff. 
Somewhere along the way someone said that you need to start a cold email by declaring who you are and what you do. Someone else said it was a good idea to name drop things like investors and competitive clients within the first sentence. Do: Keep it 4 sentences or less (ideally 3). When you send someone you don’t know a novel to read, you’re making them work. Busy people have too much on their plate to dedicate time to a speculative narrative – so they don’t read them diligently (this may not apply if your email domain rhymes with moogle or hicrosoft).
In your cold email, you want to embed and link to this presentation following a similar formula I’ve alluded to before. Here is an example email I’d write if I was trying to promote the WP Touch mobile site builder to wordpress bloggers – a timely email to my buddy Dan Shipper : Hey Dan, You want to send yourself this link immediately after creating the presentation to be used in the email. Note* you can send the presentation directly from BContext as well. Step 6: Write A Short Compelling Email Linking to the Presentation. Now its time to send the presentation to your target. I use a similar cold email format that I’ve written about before with an explicit hyperlink to the presentation. If you really want to be a hero, you can take a screenshot of an annotated slide and then paste that into the email with a hyperlink. Make sure to indicate the presentation has sound.
3. A cold email is a first impression, just like the first few minutes of a job interview. A cold email that's, well, cold won't do you any good. If you feel strongly about the field you work in, don't hesitate to show that you're passionate about it. If you're a fan of your prospective employer, tell them that. Don't hesitate to show that you're passionate. A cold email is a first impression, just like the first few minutes of a job interview. A cold email that's, well, cold won't do you any good. If you feel strongly about the field you work in, don't hesitate to show that you're passionate about i
Get to the point and fast. The point of a cold email is not to provide them with all of the information, but enough to get their interest and make them want to learn more. Ask a question, don't ask for money. Don’t try to sell something on your first initial email (i.e. give pricing). If there is a disconnect there, your crafty, clickbait subject line will get them to open the email, but they might not send such a happy response. Make it personal. Using an email template for cold emails is fine.
As journalists, cold emails are often our only avenue for reaching important sources; in our businesses, cold emails are frequently how we make sales and drive growth. This story is part of the weekly Smartcuts Column. Of the 1,000 emails we sent, 293 bounced. Of the remaining 707, 45.5% opened the emails—a terrific open rate for such a busy group, as the average open rates for business emails hovers between 14% and 23% , according to data from ConstantContact and MailChimp.
So when writing a cold email, don’t just make it clear why you are reaching out -- make it clear why you are reaching out to them. The best cold emails highlight what specifically drew you to that particular person. Using the example of reaching out for a podcast: Add a sentence or two about how specifically that person's work would be a great fit with your audience and why. 