In dogs, the metacarpal bones are numbered 1 to 5 from medial to lateral; metatarsal bones are numbered 2 through 5. A first metatarsal may rarely be present. Each bone consists of a proximal base, a body, and distal head. Metacarpals and metatarsals 2 through 5 articulate with the carpal or tarsal bones proximally and their corresponding phalanges distally. In one study, six of eight dogs with metacarpal/metatarsal fractures due to motor vehicle trauma had additional fractures or orthopedic injury. Potentially life-threatening conditions often accompany major trauma and must be managed before injuries to the metacarpals or metatarsals are considered.
Metatarsals are usually longer than metacarpals and flatter, as is the head of the metatarsal The palms of your hands are made up of five bones called metacarpals. You can see them when you clench your fists, because your knuckles are the ends of your metacarpals. The soles of your feet consist of five bones arranged in the same way as your metacarpals, but they are called metatarsals.
The same is true for your toes. Your big toes contain two bones, and your other toes each contain three. The bones in your fingers and toes are called phalanges. Metacarpals and metatarsals. The palms of your hands are made up of five bones called metacarpals. You can see them when you clench your fists, because your knuckles are the ends of your metacarpals. The soles of your feet consist of five bones arranged in the same way as your metacarpals, but they are called metatarsal
Ratios of the lengths of various ipsilateral pairs of metacarpals (top two panels) and metatarsals (bottom two panels) in male and female baboons. Data were combined across two collections of animals and are shown separately for left and right hands and feet. Abstract. The lengths and weights of metacarpals and metatarsals were measured in two collections of baboon skeletons—33 animals, all born and raised in the wild, and 60 animals, nearly all born and raised in captivity.
Here's a boring bit that you can skip if you know about hand or foot bones: in humans metatarsals and metacarpals are in the hands (metacarpals) and feet (metatarsals). They go between the wrist or ankle and the knuckles (or first toe joint). But you don't need to worry about the names because my point is that in deer the bones are joined together and the deer metatarsal or metacarpals are much longer. For example here is one of the young red deer hinds at Titus Well running along: ...and you might think the foot bones are all in the hoof, but they aren't.
In human anatomy, the metacarpal bones or metacarpus, form the intermediate part of the skeletal hand located between the phalanges of the fingers and the carpal bones of the wrist which forms the connection to the forearm. The metacarpal bones are equivalent to the metatarsal bones in the foot. The peripheral metacarpals (those of the thumb and little finger) form the sides of the cup of the palmar gutter and as they are brought together they deepen this concavity. The index metacarpal is the most firmly fixed, while the thumb metacarpal articulates with the trapezium and acts independently from the others.
The metatarsal bones, or metatarsus are a group of five long bones in the foot, located between the tarsal bones of the hind-and mid-foot and the phalanges of the toes. 
1 These are located in the wrist area. 2  Metacarpals – There are five metacarpals, each one related to a digit. 3  Phalanges (Most distal) – The bones of the fingers. 4  Each finger has three phalanges, except for the thumb, which has two. 1 Metacarpals – There are five metacarpals, each one related to a digit. 2  Phalanges (Most distal) – The bones of the fingers. 3
Carpals and Tarsals. Edit 0 2 …. The carpals (wrist of the arm-the thoracic limb) and tarsals (ankle or hock of the leg-the pelvic limb) are made of several smaller bones that lie just proximal to the metacarpals and metatarsals (also seen here, and known as the cannon bones). These bones came from a cow. 