Chondrichthyes (/kɒnˈdrɪkθɨ.iːz/ ; from Greek χονδρ- chondr- 'cartilage', ἰχθύς ichthys 'fish') is a class that contains the cartilaginous fishes: they are jawed vertebrates with paired fins, paired nares, scales, a heart with its chambers in series, and skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone. As they do not have bone marrow, red blood cells are produced in the spleen and the epigonal organ (special tissue around the gonads, which is also thought to play a role in the immune system). They are also produced in the Leydig's organ, which is only found in cartilaginous fishes, and not even all of them.
Characteristics of Cartilaginous Fish: In addition to the difference in their skeletons, cartilaginous fish have gills that open to the ocean through slits, rather than the bony covering that is present in bony fish. Different shark species may have different numbers of gill slits. Cartilaginous fish may also breathe through spiracles, rather than gills. Spiracles are found on top of the heads of all rays and skates, and some sharks.
Confidence votes 420. Cartilaginous fish have entirely cartilaginous endoskeletons, meaning their skeletons are made from cartilage. They also have strong jaws, paired appendages, well-developed sense organs, and hunt using a system known as the lateral-line system, which uses vibrations to recognize prey. 
By Laura Klappenbach. Bony fishes (Osteichthyes) are a group of aquatic vertebrates characterized by having a bony skeleton (in contrast to the cartilaginous fishes, a group whose skeleton consists of cartilage, not bone). Bony fishes include two sub groups, the ray-finned fishes and the lobe-finned fishes. 
A cartilaginous fish's skin is covered in placoid scales, or dermal denticles, tooth-like scales different from the flat scales (called ganoid, ctenoid or cycloid) found on bony fish. Different shark species may have different numbers of gill slits. Cartilaginous fish may also breathe through spiracles, rather than gills. Spiracles are found on top of the heads of all rays and skates, and some sharks.
Unique Characteristics. 1.The skeleton of the cartilaginous fish is out of a flexible bone-cartilage. The skeleton does not have any bone. 2.These fish have dorsal fins, an anal fin, a pair of ventral fins and a single caudal fin. The bony fish have a pair of gills that are situated inside their bodies, and the cartilaginous fish have gill slits on the outer side of their bodies, present on both sides. In the cartilaginous fish, the teeth, nostrils on the side of the head and the tiny tooth like scale are not fused together to the jaw.
Characteristics: The fins are supported by rays, as the name indicates. In contrast to the cartilaginous fish they have a rigid skeleton. The swim bladder is also a unique feature of most ray-finned fish, enabling them to maintain buoyancy as they move up or down in the water. A gill cover is used to pump water through the gills, enabling the bony fish to breathe without swimming.
Chondrichthyes share many common characteristics among each other; their main defining feature is having a cartilaginous skeleton. Other features found in Chondricthyes include similar coloration patterns, placoid scales, pectoral fins, and ampullae of lorenzini. Phylum – Chordata. Class – Chrondrichthyes. The Chondrichthyes are considered the oldest existing jawed-vertebrates related to bony vertebrates (Osteichthyes) [2][4]. The earliest dated Chondricthyes fossils are from the Silurian period (444-416 mya).
Cartilaginous fishes have a skeleton that consists of cartilage (in contrast to their cousins the bony fish, whose skeletons are made up of true bone). Cartilage is both tough and flexible and it provides sufficient structural support to enable cartilaginous fishes to grow to considerable size. Cartilaginous fishes (Chondrichthyes) are a group of vertebrates that includes sharks, rays, skates and chimaeras.