Once we know the charge of the two ions in the salt, then we can write the chemical formula with the correct number of atoms to make sure there is a zero charge overall. A particularly easy way of doing this is to use the 'crisscross method' : here the charge on one ion becomes the number following the other. Salts can be easily identified, since they usually consist of positive ions from a metal with negative ions from a non metal. The salt we put on our fries is actually sodium chloride and is made up of metal Na1+ and non metal Cl1- ions.
Making Salt from Precipitation Reactions. Some insoluble salts can be made from the reaction between two solutions. Barium sulphate is an insoluble salt. It can be made by the reaction between solutions of barium chloride and sodium sulphate. For example: Barium chloride + Sodium Sulphate → barium sulphate + sodium chloride. Precipitation reactions can be used to remove unwanted ions from solutions. Metal Oxides can also be used as bases and be reacted with acids to make salts and water. Here’s word equation for a reaction between an acid and a metal base: Metal oxide + acid → salt + water. For example: Copper Oxide (CuO) + hydrochloric acid (2HCl) → copper chloride (CuCl 2) + water (H 2 0).
While fairly reactive metals can be reacted with acids to form salt and hydrogen, salts of very unreactive metals, such as copper, cannot be made this way because these metals do not react with acids. Metal Oxides can also be used as bases and be reacted with acids to make salts and water. Here’s word equation for a reaction between an acid and a metal base: Metal oxide + acid → salt + water. For example: Copper Oxide (CuO) + hydrochloric acid (2HCl) → copper chloride (CuCl 2) + water (H 2 0).
To run such an experiment, you need a fancy device called the diamond anvil cell. Chemicals are added between two diamonds, which can be compressed to produce pressures up to 300GPa. This is what Prakapenka’s colleague used to make Na 3 Cl and NaCl 3, structures that were verified by Prakapenka using X-ray analysis. 
It can be made in a laboratory by the reaction of sodium with chlorine. However, it is found naturally in large amounts in sea water or in underground deposits. It is often obtained either by evaporating sea water or by mining underground deposits. Mining. Salt can be mined as rock salt which is used to treat icy roads in the winter. It lowers the melting point of the ice on the roads so that it melts, even when the temperature is below 0ºC. Salt can also be mined by solution mining. This happens in Cheshire in the North West of England. Water is pumped underground and into the salt deposit. Salt dissolves in the water, forming a concentrated salt solution. This is then pumped up to the surface ready for use by the chemical industry. Solution mining is a continuous process that is safer than sending miners underground. Mining for salt can lead to subsidence
Common salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl), a chemical compound belonging to the larger class of salts; salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. The manufacture of salt is one of the oldest chemical industries. A major source of salt is seawater, which has a salinity of approximately 3.5%. This means that there are about 35 grams (1.2 oz) of dissolved salts, predominantly sodium (Na+) and chloride (Cl−) ions, per kilogram (2.2 lbs) of water.
The salt copper(II) sulfate as the mineral chalcanthite. In chemistry, a salt is an ionic compound that results from the neutralization reaction of an acid and a base. Salts are composed of related numbers of cations (positively charged ions) and anions (negative ions) so that the product is electrically neutral (without a net charge). These component ions can be inorganic, such as chloride (Cl −), or organic, such as acetate (CH 3 CO 2 -); and can be monatomic, such as fluoride (F −), or polyatomic, such as sulfate (SO 4 2−). There are several varieties of salts
Salt is present in vast quantities in seawater, where it is the main mineral constituent; the open ocean has about 35 grams (1.2 oz) of solids per litre, a salinity of 3.5%. Salt is essential for animal life, and saltiness is one of the basic human tastes. The manufacture of salt is one of the oldest chemical industries. A major source of salt is seawater, which has a salinity of approximately 3.5%. This means that there are about 35 grams (1.2 oz) of dissolved salts, predominantly sodium (Na+) and chloride (Cl−) ions, per kilogram (2.2 lbs) of water.