Synovial joints are predominant in your limbs where mobility is important. Ligaments help provide their stability and muscles contract to produce movement. The most common synovial joints are listed below: 1  Ball and socket joints, like your hip and shoulder joints, are the most mobile type of joint in the human body. 2  They allow you to swing your arms and legs in many different directions. 
Instructor: Dominic Corsini. In this lesson, you'll explore the six types of synovial joints, as well as find out how to connect the different bodily movements to joint type. To aid in your understanding of the material, illustrations, examples, and a brief quiz are also part of the lesson. As shown on this illustration, the six types of synovial joints include the pivot, hinge, saddle, plane, condyloid, and ball-and-socket joints. These joints are found throughout the body; however some locations serve as better examples than others. To begin our investigation, let's focus on the pivot joints.
5. Ball and socket joints: This type of joint allows side to side, back and forth, and rotational movement. Examples of these joints are the hip or shoulder joints, where the head (ball) of one bone fits into the cavity (socket) of another. 6. Ellipsoid joints: This joint is also known as a ‘condyloid joint’. 4. Pivot joints: These joints allow only one type of movement, the rotation of one bone on or around another. An example of a pivot joint is the joint between the atlas and axis (C1 & C2) vertebrae, the rotation around each other allows our heads to ‘pivot’ left and right. 5.
There are many different classes of synovial joints in the body, including gliding, hinge, saddle, and ball and socket joints. 1  Gliding joints, such as the ones between the carpals of the wrist, are found where bones meet as flat surfaces and allow for the bones to glide past one another in any direction. 
Lesson Summary. Our bodies contain six types of synovial joints. Synovial joints are the most movable type of joint found in the human body. Joints are formed where bones come together. The six types of synovial joints are the pivot, hinge, saddle, plane, condyloid, and ball-and-socket joints. As shown on this illustration, the six types of synovial joints include the pivot, hinge, saddle, plane, condyloid, and ball-and-socket joints. These joints are found throughout the body; however some locations serve as better examples than others. To begin our investigation, let's focus on the pivot joints.
Joint Movements 1. To know and understand the movements possible in synovial joints. All – Name and describe the 6 types of movement Most-Identify joints in the body that allow each type of movement Some-Explain each type of movement using sporting examples. To review the different types of joints All – must know the function and key structures of a joint. Name the different types of joint. Most – should be able to describe the functions of the key structures and give locations of each type of joint in the body.
Synovial joints, sometimes called diarthrosis, are the most movable type of joint in the body. Joints are formed where bones come together. In this lesson, we'll explore the six types of synovial joints and discuss their functions. As shown on this illustration, the six types of synovial joints include the pivot, hinge, saddle, plane, condyloid, and ball-and-socket joints. These joints are found throughout the body; however some locations serve as better examples than others. To begin our investigation, let's focus on the pivot joints.
Synovial joints. Synovial joints are the most commonly occurring type of joint, which also produce the greatest range of movements. The movements created at synovial joints allow us to do everyday activities like walking, running, writing and typing. 4. Pivot joints: These joints allow only one type of movement, the rotation of one bone on or around another. An example of a pivot joint is the joint between the atlas and axis (C1 & C2) vertebrae, the rotation around each other allows our heads to ‘pivot’ left and right. 5.
A synovial joint, also known as diarthrosis, is the most common and most movable type of joint in the body of a mammal. As with most other joints, synovial joints achieve movement at the point of contact of the articulating bones. Structural and functional differences distinguish synovial joints from cartilaginous joints (synchondroses and symphyses) and fibrous joints (sutures, gomphoses, and syndesmoses).