Best Answer: The tricuspid valve regulates the opening between the right atrium and the right ventricle. As the right atrium contracts, the tricuspid valve opens, allowing blood to eject into the right ventricle. When the atrium is finished contracting, the tricuspid valve closes, preventing a backwash of blood. Source(s): bioguy · 7 years ago
The mitral valve (also known as the bicuspid valve or left atrioventricular valve) is a dual-flap (bi-from the Latin, meaning double, and mitral-from the Latin, meaning shaped like a mitre) valve in the heart that lies between the left atrium (LA) and the left ventricle (LV). During diastole, a normally-functioning mitral valve opens as a result of increased pressure from the left atrium as it fills with blood (preloading). As atrial pressure increases above that of the left ventricle, the mitral valve opens. Opening facilitates the passive flow of blood into the left ventricle.
From the left ventricle, blood flows through the aortic valve to the arch of the aorta and out to the systemic arteries of the body. These arteries pass the blood to capillaries where the tissues of the body use the oxygen from the blood for aerobic cell respiration. The aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta, while the pulmonary valve separates the right ventricle from the pulmonary artery. As the ventricles contract, ventricular pressure exceeds arterial pressure, the semilunar valves open and blood is pumped into the major arteries.
The right atrium pumps blood through the right atrioventricular (tricuspid) valve to the right ventricle. From the right ventricle, blood flows through the pulmonary valve to the lungs via the pulmonary arteries (deoxygenated blood). In the lungs the blood becomes more red in color as it is oxygenated. The aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta, while the pulmonary valve separates the right ventricle from the pulmonary artery. As the ventricles contract, ventricular pressure exceeds arterial pressure, the semilunar valves open and blood is pumped into the major arteries.
The mitral valve (not to be confused with the congenital bicuspid aortic valve) and the tricuspid valve are known collectively as the atrioventricular valves because they lie between the atria and the ventricles of the heart and control the flow of blood. During diastole, a normally-functioning mitral valve opens as a result of increased pressure from the left atrium as it fills with blood (preloading). As atrial pressure increases above that of the left ventricle, the mitral valve opens. Opening facilitates the passive flow of blood into the left ventricle.
Blood collects within the right atrium, and it must flow through the tricuspid valve in order to enter the right ventricle. Then, blood exits the heart via the pulmonary artery, which transmits blood to the lungs for oxygenation. The term tricuspid refers to how the valve is constructed. Right atrioventricular valve (Tricuspid valve). The tricuspid valve forms the boundary between the right ventricle and the right atrium. Deoxygenated blood enters the right side of the heart via the inferior and superior vena cava.
The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. The tricuspid valve prevents back flow of blood into the right atrium. This valve is weakened by drug abuse. The back flow of blood is also known as regression or tricuspid regurgitation.
The aortic valve is a one-way valve comprised of three leaflets that conducts blood flow from the main pumping chamber of your heart, the left ventricle, into the largest artery in your body, the aorta, which conducts blood throughout the rest of your body. 
It permits blood to flow one way only, from the left atrium into the left ventricle This valve is more commonly called the mitral valve because it has two flaps (cusps) and looks like a bishop's miter or headdress. Bicuspid valve: One of the four valves of the heart, this valve is situated between the left atrium and the left ventricle.