From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Titanium dioxide, also known as titanium(IV) oxide or titania, is the naturally occurring oxide of titanium, chemical formula TiO 2. When used as a pigment, it is called titanium white, Pigment White 6 (PW6) , or CI 77891. Generally it is sourced from ilmenite, rutile and anatase.
About TITANIUM DIOXIDE: Titanium dioxide is an inorganic compound used in a range of body care products such as sunscreens and makeup. It appears to have low skin penetration but inhalation is a concern. Function(s): Colorant; Opacifying Agent; Sunscreen Agent; Ultraviolet Light Absorber.
Titanium dioxide as used in sunscreens is commonly modified with other ingredients to ensure efficacy and stability. Examples of what are known as surface modifier ingredients used for titanium dioxide include stearic acid, isostearic acid, polyhydroxystearic acid, and dimethicone/methicone copolymer.
Titanium dioxide is a naturally occurring oxide of the element titanium. Also referred to as titanium (IV) oxide or titania, this substance also occurs naturally as three mineral compounds known as anatase, brookite, and rutile.
As a pigment to make foods appear whiter, titanium dioxide is frequently added to items such as candy and milk. It is also added to some foods that are not naturally white such as mustards, nuts, dried vegetables, soups, seeds, wine or beer to enhance the overall flavor.
Titanium Dioxide – Titania TiO2 Titanium dioxide pigment is a fine white powder. When used in paints, plastics or paper, it provides for maximum whiteness and opacity. It gives paint high hiding power, meaning the ability to mask or hide a substrate. It does this more effectively than any other white pigment.
Titanium dioxide, also known as titanium(IV) oxide or titania, is the naturally occurring oxide of titanium, chemical formula TiO 2. When used as a pigment, it is called titanium white, Pigment White 6 (PW6) , or CI 77891. Generally it is sourced from ilmenite, rutile and anatase.