Streptococcus Thermophilus is a powerful probiotic strain that has well researched health benefits. This probiotic is often found in the colon and has many digestive, immunity & many other researched health benefits. S. thermophilus is used for culturing cheese as well as yogurt. This probiotic strain also produces lactase, which helps people digest milk more efficiently
The picture above is a wonderful example of the Streptococcus pyogenes being gram-positive. A bacteria is gram-positive when it is a purple color after being stained. As you can see, the Streptococcus pyogenes is a gram-positive bacteria. It can also be seen that the bacteria has a coccoid shape and grows in chains. This picture is a perfect example of what Streptococcus pyogenes looks like when it is properly gram stained. 
This microbe is also useful in the production and isolation of enzymes. Because S. thermophilus ’ genome is shorter than most, 1.8Mb, the microbe has been the topic of several research studies to improve the organism. One such study involved the production of beta-galactosidase from the microbe. The final feature mentioned was that S. thermophilus is a probiotic. Probiotics are commonly consumed as part of fermented foods. Sometimes specially added active live cultures are included such as in yogurt. S. thermophilus has been known to help out the internal floral of a human being.
Another important property of S. thermophilus is that it is a probiotic bacterium. The bacterium is healthy for the host organism that consumes it and combines this microbe with the rest of its internal flora. These two features are important for the many uses of S. thermophilus. The final feature mentioned was that S. thermophilus is a probiotic. Probiotics are commonly consumed as part of fermented foods. Sometimes specially added active live cultures are included such as in yogurt. S. thermophilus has been known to help out the internal floral of a human being.
Streptococcus thermophilus ATCC# 19258, as the name implies, looks like a chain of spheres. It is a gram-positive microbe and it is a facultative anaerobe. It does not form spores and does not move on its own. As the species name gives away, the microbe likes warmer temperatures. The final feature mentioned was that S. thermophilus is a probiotic. Probiotics are commonly consumed as part of fermented foods. Sometimes specially added active live cultures are included such as in yogurt. S. thermophilus has been known to help out the internal floral of a human being.
S. thermophilus is one of the most widely used bacteria in the dairy industry. USDA statistics from 1998 showed that more than 1.02 billion kilograms of mozzarella cheese and 621 million kilograms of yogurt were produced from S. thermophilus. S. thermophilus is found in fermented milk products, and is generally used in the production of yogurt, alongside Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus. The two species are synergistic, and S. thermophilus probably provides L. d. bulgaricus with folic acid and formic acid which it uses for purine synthesis.
Introduction. Streptococcus thermophilus belongs to the thermophilic group of lactic acid bacteria. It is traditionally used in association with one or several Lactobacillus species as a starter culture in the production of yogurt and the manufacture of Swiss and Italian cheeses such as Emmentaler and Mozzarella. In common with other lactic acid bacteria, some strains of S. thermophilus produce exocellular polysaccharides (EPS). The EPS produced by S. thermophilus is critically important for the final texture in most yogurt processes.
It is also classified as a lactic acid bacterium. S. thermophilus is found in fermented milk products, and is generally used in the production of yogurt, alongside Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus. The two species are synergistic, and S. thermophilus probably provides L. d. bulgaricus with folic acid and formic acid which it uses for purine synthesis.
Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus (previous name Streptococcus thermophilus) is a gram-positive bacteria and a homofermentative facultative anaerobe, of the viridans group. It tests negative for cytochrome, oxidase and catalase, and positive for alpha-hemolytic activity. S. thermophilus is found in fermented milk products, and is generally used in the production of yogurt, alongside Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus. The two species are synergistic, and S. thermophilus probably provides L. d. bulgaricus with folic acid and formic acid which it uses for purine synthesis.