A common cause is from bleeding, because the pigment in red blood cells contains iron. If you bite your tongue by accident, suffer trauma to the mouth, or have gum disease which can cause spontaneous bleeding from inflamed gums, then you will likely have a metal taste for a while, or notice it now and again.
Customer Question. How can I get rid of a metallic taste in my mouth, I wear a partial and I was using excessive amounts of Fixodent powder to get me through until I could get it aligned. Well, there is zinc in this powder. Due to the excessive use I now have a metallic taste that will not subside.
A metallic taste in the mouth is a relatively common side effect of medications. Dozens of different medications produce an altered sense of taste that can include the perception of a metallic taste. Examples include many antibiotics and some antihistamines.
There are other reasons for a metallic taste in your mouth. Some medicines can cause it. So can some medical problems. But if you have metal in your mouth, and you have a metallic taste in your mouth, it is highly likely that the taste is being caused by corrosion of the metal.
2. Poor Oral Hygiene (Metallic or Stale Taste). With irritated gums or infections there is often low level bleeding from the gums and as the blood contains Iron (haemoglobin) this can give rise to a metallic or stale taste in your mouth. This and other dental problems are a very common cause of a metallic taste.
Best Answer: A metallic taste in the mouth is a fairly common problem — and usually not serious. Although you don't have actual taste buds that detect metals, the perception of the taste is described as metallic.. A metallic taste can be due to many factors.
Your sense of taste is closely related to your sense of smell. When your sense of smell is distorted, it can have an impact on your sense of taste. Sinus issues are a common cause of metallic taste in the mouth.
The remedy for a metallic taste in your mouth depends, of course, on identifying the factor(s) causing the condition and eradicating them. This can often be simply a matter of undertaking proper, thorough tooth-brushing and flossing and giving up unhealthy habits such as smoking or heavy drinking.