The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. On average nationally, hiring an interior decorator or designer costs $7,125, with most homeowners spending between $5,544 and $8,706. If you decide to hire a professional for decorating your house, make sure you know the right kind of one that you need.
1 On the other end of the spectrum are premiere interior decorating companies who might charge $400 to $500 per hour or more. 2  Flat fee: some interior design decorators charge a pre-determined rate for certain services.
I am a Interior Designer and the industry standard is 30-35% of budget....furniture, furnishings, renovation and/or painting. Custom design is not for the masses, it is for individuals who want a design that is customized to their lifestyle and vision of how they want to live.
1 Consultation with designer on a bedroom decorating project; 2  Agreement on terms of the arrangement, which is going to usually be in the area of 20% markup on goods purchased from a wholesale distributor; and. 3  Budget is set at $6,000 and will include flat design fee, materials, vendors, and any contractors;
1 Hourly rates-this is for a smaller project and pays the designer based on the actual amount of time that they contribute to a specific project. 2  Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and.
What it will cost: Interior designers have various fee structures. They might charge an hourly rate (anywhere from $50 to $500); a flat fee, which could be as low as several thousand dollars and as high as five figures; or a percentage of total project costs. You may also be asked to pay a retainer before work begins.
I am working a contract job for an interior design firm that is billing me out at $85/hour, and I'm pretty sure my full-time job bills me out at $110/hour. I did find a website that says, the going rate in 2005 is anywhere from $65 to $120 per hour.