Rabbit is a symbolic representation of that same energy. Rabbit is well at home here on the earthly plane, of course. But he is also an Adept, comfortable in the Netherworld of underground tunnels and dark passages. His acute perception makes him sensitive to vibrations and energies that we often cannot comprehend. Sandy Koi. Rabbits are more than companion animals to many of us in the House Rabbit Society-they are also living symbols of a life style, a philosophy and a value system. Many people who live with a house bunny have chosen a vegetarian or vegan lifestyle, for example.
Rabbit, as Davis and DeMello indicated, is also a symbol of the archetypal Trickster in world mythologies. Br'er Rabbit is a Trickster, for example, as is the rabbit Manabozho in Native American myths. We all know Bugs Bunny, of course, in popular American cartoons. Sandy Koi. Rabbits are more than companion animals to many of us in the House Rabbit Society-they are also living symbols of a life style, a philosophy and a value system. Many people who live with a house bunny have chosen a vegetarian or vegan lifestyle, for example.
The rabbit is also a symbol of Ostara (see Rabbit Meanings Around the World below), an ancient fertility goddess whose symbols are rabbits, various flowers and eggs (more life/growth/fertility themes!). That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.
If Rabbit has come to your Dream; To see a rabbit in your dream signifies luck, magical power, and success. You have a positive outlook on life. Alternatively, rabbits symbolize abundance, warmth, fertility and sexual activity. The dream can also be associated with Easter time and your own personal memories of Easter.
Rabbit Animal Totem Symbolism. The soft and jovial rabbit animal totem is the ultimate symbol of abundance, prosperity, and fertility. Many expressions exist to describe the sexual and procreative abilities of these furry creatures and for good reason. The soft rabbit floats into your dreams to signify good luck and success, as long as you have a positive outlook on life. Just as in life, they symbolize prosperity, love, fertility and sexuality. These are particular prevalent in the spring season, when new life (and possibly love) is blossoming.
Symbolic Rabbit Meanings. Animal Symbolism of the Rabbit. Symbolic rabbit meanings deal primarily with abundance, comfort, and vulnerability. Traditionally, rabbits are associated with fertility, sentiment, desire, and procreation. That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.
Symbolic Rabbit Meanings via Physical/Behavioral Associations. Rabbits love to chew, and their teeth never stop growing. Symbolically, chewing implies repetition, contemplation, and breaking concepts down into component parts. Their diet is light and green, which implies symbolism of health and prosperity. That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.
In Chinese culture, rabbit can be used to symbolize the moon. Ancient Chinese believed there was a rabbit living on the moon. They could see it on the shiny full moon on Mid-Autumn Day. Though the success of the Apollo Program proved the rabbit never lived on the moon, but its lucky image never faded. 
A mother rabbit can have forty or more babies a year. That's symbolic of the cycle of life, and they way life carries on generation after generation. This could hearken to our ideals of ancestry. Indeed in many cultures (Asian, for example) the rabbit is a symbol of longevity and a long family line.