Stop automatic buffering or playing. If you often open YouTube videos but do not watch them immediately, you might want to stop them buffering (loading) or playing until you are ready, so you can use your bandwidth for other activities. Check that the Player option is selected on the left-hand list, then click Auto-Play in the top row. This will take you to the buffer settings and related options. 4. Make YouTube videos load without pausing. If your YouTube videos frequently pause and start buffering in the middle of watching them, try disabling DASH Playback by unchecking the box next to that name.
1 Change the video quality to a lower setting to see if the video begins to load. 2  Pause the video, then change the quality. 3  Allow the gray bar at the bottom of the player to load. 4  Try playing the video again. 5  If the video still doesn’t load, clear your browser’s cache and cookies and try viewing the video again. If a video doesn’t play continuously (it stops and starts while you’re watching), or stops early, try these troubleshooting steps: 1  Check your internet connection. 2  You'll need a broadband connection with at least 500 Kbps for the best viewing experience.
Frustrated with YouTube videos that never seem to load, while ads play just fine? There's a reason for your buffering woes, called peering. Annie explains the details on this episode. Link to Ars Technica's report: 
To Fix Online Video Buffering Problems: If you are using Internet Explorer, Please perform these steps and check if it helps: 1. Open the Internet Explorer browser and then click the Start button. 2. 
We’ve all been there: you’re watching a YouTube video when all of a sudden it pauses and starts buffering, especially right when the video starts getting good. This problem isn’t uncommon and it happens to the best of us. If your internet connection can’t keep up with that, then the video that you’re watching tends to sputter and start to buffer, causing annoyances as you bang your hand against the side of your monitor in order to get it to magically work again.
Instructions. Pause the video. When the video begins to play, immediately pause it. Wait for the status bar to indicate that the video transfer is complete, or the download is complete. In YouTube, this is indicated when the status bar in the video player has been completely filled, left to right, with the color red. Save. Videos from YouTube and other video stream sites pause and buffer videos because they are playing faster than they download. When this happens, you get a delay when watching a video. The delay can be seconds up to minutes. Bypass this buffering and keep the videos playing smoothly
You are trying to enjoy a YouTube® video, but the video streaming buffering lag is beginning to drive you mad. Of course, we all know the simple solution is to press pause and let the video finish buffering until it is fully loaded onto your computer. If you're prone to watching the videos in the small on-page box within your browser, the quality should be set to 480p or lower. In these cases, viewing the video in an HD resolution is not going to improve quality enough to risk buffering problems and delays. 4.