Change the icon of any Application Shortcut. To change the icon of a shortcut on your desktop, start menu, or in Explorer, simply right-click on the icon and select Properties. In the Shortcut tab, click the Change Icon button. Now choose one of the other available icons or click browse to find the icon you want. Change Folder icons. You can easily change the icon on most folders in Windows Vista and 7. Simply right-click on the folder and select properties. Click the Customize tab, and then
Then, in All Programs, to change the icon of a program, right click it, choose properties, customize, change icon. Browse to your folder; open, select the icon, choose apply, OK, etc. One caution, clicking restore default changed all the icons on All Programs back to the plain vanilla folders. button we can select a different file to get the shortcut from: Note that I've selected shell32.dll, or more completely  C:\Windows\System32\shell32.dll . Press OK, and the Change Icon dialog suddenly has many icons to choose from: On my system I have something like 234 icons to choose from.
Change the icon for Computer, Recycle Bin, Network, and your User folder. Right-click on the desktop, and select Personalize. Now, click the “Change desktop icons” link on the left sidebar in the Personalization window. The window looks slightly different in Windows Vista, but the link is the same. Select the icon you wish to change, and click the Change Icon button. Change Folder icons. You can easily change the icon on most folders in Windows Vista and 7. Simply right-click on the folder and select properties. Click the Customize tab, and then
You can also personalize your desktop by automatically adding icons and folders to your desktop using the Desktop Icon Settings dialog box. Right-click the Windows desktop and choose Personalize. Click the Change Desktop Icons link in the Task pane on the left. You can personalize your Windows Vista workspace by changing the way the icons appear on the desktop. You can arrange icons on your desktop in Windows Vista using the desktop shortcut menu. To be able to move your icons anywhere on the desktop, follow these steps: Right-click the Windows desktop. Choose View.
large or small icons, you choose. Usually, with Windows 7, when you want to change the size of the Desktop icons, you would right click on any empty area on the desktop, and then click on View, and then select the size of the icons, either Large, Medium or Small icons. 
1 In the Finder, select the item you want to have a different icon. 2  From the File menu, choose Get Info or press Command-I to open the Get Info window. 3  Click the icon in the upper-left corner of the Get Info window to select it. 1 Click the image of your current user icon that you see to the left of the Change Password button. 2  A pop-up menu appears that lets you select another image. 3  You can also drag or paste a picture into the menu or icon to replace it.
You can also the icons themselves. Right-click the Windows desktop and choose Personalize. Click the Change Desktop Icons link in the Task pane. Select any of the Desktop Icons in the middle of the dialog box and click the Change Icon button. Click an icon that you like, and then click OK twice. You can personalize your Windows Vista workspace by changing the way the icons appear on the desktop. You can arrange icons on your desktop in Windows Vista using the desktop shortcut menu. To be able to move your icons anywhere on the desktop, follow these steps: Right-click the Windows desktop. Choose View.
Changing an item's icon. 1  In the Finder, select the item you want to have a different icon. 2  From the File menu, choose Get Info or press Command-I to open the Get Info window. 3  Click the icon in the upper-left corner of the Get Info window to select it. 1 Click the image of your current user icon that you see to the left of the Change Password button. 2  A pop-up menu appears that lets you select another image. 3  You can also drag or paste a picture into the menu or icon to replace it.
4. save it in the Desktop as a 24-bit Bitmap (*.bmp,*.dib). 5. right click on the folder you want to change then select properties. then select Customize then press change icon then press Browse. 6. on the Browse window view all file then find the picture you made it. then press open then ok and ok. How to change Folder icon to a picture of your choice. 1.First thing you do is choose the picture you want to use. 2. then you go into Paint and add the picture and then press the zoom out Option, keep. pressing it until stopped zooming out.
Click on Change desktop icons in the screen that comes up. 4. Single-click the icon you wish to change. 1  Then press the Change Icon button. 2  By selecting the check-boxes up top, you can manage which desktop icons appear or don't appear on your desktop. 3  Checked box means icons appear, unchecked box means icons don't appear