Buttonbush is a typical wetland shrub that grows less than 10 feet tall in wetlands along the shores of a lake or on the fringes of a swamp. Many of these shrubs produce berries such as the elderberry and the blueberry, making them important within the ecosystem as a source of food for wildlife.
Overview. The wetlands across the United States have an assortment of plants that grow in or in close proximity to them. These plants range in size from tree species to different kinds of weeds and grasses.
Zonation of wetland vegetation Wetland vegetation is typically found in distinct zones that are related mainly to water depth and salinity. As the groupings above suggest, many wetland plants have strict preferences for soil moisture and water depth.
Typha angustifolia, Narrow Leaf Cattails, are one of the most important native wetland plants, providing wildlife habitat, improving water quality and providing food for wildlife. In fact, Euell Gibbons called Cattails the Superma...
Some common wetland plants are better left alone. One is poison ivy, which is not limited to wetlands but often thrives near water. This plant contains oils that cause itchy rashes. Another wetland plant to steer clear of is catbrier, a climbing vine that has sharp thorns.
The pocket guide is a complimentary publication to the comprehensive, Field Guide to Colorado’s Wetland Plants. The Pocket Guide highlights common wetland plants, both native and non-native located within the Eastern Plains. It is designed to help landowners and other wetland managers correctly identify common wetland plants, manage for preferred species, and control noxious ones.
Native plants are always the best choice for use in landscapes, restoration projects, storm water projects, and naturalized areas. Aquascapes Unlimited’s seed sown local ecotype species add natural wildlife benefits, promote biodiversity, and oftentimes require less maintenance in terms of fertilizers and pesticides.
Our state is home to hundreds of native aquatic and wetland plants that live in damp to wet soils, and some even more specialized plants that live entirely in, on, or under water; submersed plants, emersed plants (including grasses, sedges and rushes), and floating and floating-leaved plants.
People often do not include trees when they think of wetland plants but several types of trees grow where the soil is moist and wetlands occur. Among them are water tupelo, river birch, red maples, box elder and the bald cypress.