Gas exchange. We need to get oxygen from the air into the blood, and we need to remove waste carbon dioxide from the blood into the air. Moving gases like this is called gas exchange. The alveoli are adapted to make gas exchange in lungs happen easily and efficiently.
The exchange takes place in the millions of alveoli in the lungs and the capillaries that envelop them. As shown below, inhaled oxygen moves from the alveoli to the blood in the capillaries, and carbon dioxide moves from the blood in the capillaries to the air in the alveoli.
Gas exchange between the air within the alveoli and the pulmonary capillaries occurs by diffusion. The oxygen must first dissolve before passing through the respiratory epithelium. Gas moves from a region of high partial pressure to a region of low partial pressure, down a partial pressure gradient.
Introduction• Oxygen and carbon dioxide diffuse between the alveoli and pulmonary capillaries in the lungs, andbetween the systemic capillaries and cells throughout the body.• The diffusion of these gases, moving in opposite directions, is called gas exchange.Page 2.
Gas exchange is the delivery of oxygen from the lungs to the bloodstream, and the elimination of carbon dioxide from the bloodstream to the lungs. It occurs in the lungs between the alveoli and a network of tiny blood vessels called capillaries, which are located in the walls of the alveoli. The walls of the alveoli actually share a membrane with the capillaries in which oxygen and carbon dioxide move freely between the respiratory system and the bloodstream.
Ventilation is the process by which air moves in and out of the lungs. Diffusion is the spontaneous movement of gases, without the use of any energy or effort by the body, between the gas in the alveoli and the blood in the capillaries in
The respiratory system does this through ventilation, gas exchange between alveoli and capillaries, transportation of oxygen from the lungs to the cells; gas exchange between cells and capillaries and delivery of carbon dioxide from the cells to the lungs.
It maintains the concentration gradient of carbon dioxide and oxygen between the alveoli and the blood in the capillaries (vital for oxygen to diffuse into the blood from the alveoli and carbon dioxide out of the blood into the alveoli). Gas exchange is the process of swapping one gas for another. It occurs in the alveoli of the lungs. Oxygen diffuses into the capillaries from the air in the alveoli and carbon dioxide diffuses out of the capillaries and into the air in the alveoli.