A minimum of 60 graduate-level credits are required. Generally people have earned a master's degree before applying to an education specialist program, although some programs count the master's degree toward the education specialist requirements.
Ed.S. in Curriculum and Instruction. An education specialist degree in curriculum and instruction prepares educators for leadership positions in either the K-12 or higher education setting.
Educational Specialist. Prepare to become a transformational leader of educators with an education specialist degree. As a transformation leader, you can use analytical, critical, and innovative thinking to improve the performance of your educational institution.
The main responsibility of an education specialist is to make positive changes to how students learn in particular institutions and programs.
For example, a specialist in education policy may have an advanced degree in education or experience as a school teacher or administrator. A health care analyst, meanwhile, may have a medical degree or a master's in public health, as well as medical experience.
Health policy specialists generally have a bachelor’s or master’s degree in a health care field. A bachelor’s would take about four years to earn, and those going on to obtain a master’s would require an additional two to three years of schooling.
Ed.S. in Special Education. An education specialist degree in special education prepares graduates for leadership positions in special education in K-12 schools. Graduates may fill positions as special education directors within a single school, or they may work as district-wide directors.
Liberty University’s Education Specialist program is designed to prepare competent and effective leaders, like you, with a Christian worldview who will model high academic standards and assume a leadership role in the field of education.
An education specialist degree, an Ed.S., is a terminal professional degree that is higher than a master's degree but below a doctorate degree.