Levofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones are generally well tolerated, but in rare instances have produced serious adverse reactions such as spontaneous tendon ruptures and irreversible peripheral neuropathy. Tendon damage may manifest months after therapy had been completed. Levofloxacin is the levo isomer of the racemate ofloxacin, another quinolone antimicrobial agent. In layman terms, this means that levofloxacin is the 50% of ofloxacin that have been found to be effective against bacteria, while the other 50% have been removed.
Levofloxacin is given to treat a bacterial infection. It is useful for treating infections such as sinusitis, chest infections, urine infections, prostatitis, and some skin and soft tissue infections. It works by killing the bacteria which are the cause of the infection. Other antibiotics are usually prescribed in preference to levofloxacin. Levofloxacin is reserved for infections which have not improved with other antibiotic treatment. It is also used if other, more preferred, antibiotics cannot be prescribed for some reas
Levofloxacin is in a group of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones (flor-o-KWIN-o-lones). Levofloxacin fights bacteria in the body. Levofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections of the skin, sinuses, kidneys, bladder, or prostate. Levofloxacin is also used to treat bacterial infections that cause bronchitis or pneumonia, and to treat people who have been exposed to anthrax or plague. 
Levofloxacin (trade names Levaquin (US), Tavanic (EU), and others) is a broad-spectrum antibiotic of the fluoroquinolone drug class, and the levo isomer of its predecessor ofloxacin. Levofloxacin is the levo isomer of the racemate ofloxacin, another quinolone antimicrobial agent. In layman terms, this means that levofloxacin is the 50% of ofloxacin that have been found to be effective against bacteria, while the other 50% have been removed.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Levofloxacin is an antibiotic that is used for treating bacterial infections. Many common infections in humans are caused by bacteria. Bacteria can grow and multiply, infecting different parts of the body. Drugs that control and eradicate these bacteria are called antibiotics. It is in a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, a class that includes ciprofloxacin (Cipro), norfloxacin (Noroxin), ofloxacin (Floxin), trovafloxacin (Trovan), and lomefloxacin (Maxaquin). The FDA approved levofloxacin in December 1996. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 12/9/2014.
Levofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones are valued for their broad spectrum of activity, excellent tissue penetration, and for their availability in both oral and intravenous formulations. Levofloxacin is the levo isomer of the racemate ofloxacin, another quinolone antimicrobial agent. In layman terms, this means that levofloxacin is the 50% of ofloxacin that have been found to be effective against bacteria, while the other 50% have been removed.
Levofloxacin may cause worsening of myasthenia gravis symptoms, including muscle weakness and breathing problems. Levofloxacin is the levo isomer of the racemate ofloxacin, another quinolone antimicrobial agent. In layman terms, this means that levofloxacin is the 50% of ofloxacin that have been found to be effective against bacteria, while the other 50% have been removed.
Levofloxacin is in a group of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones (flor-o-KWIN-o-lones). Levofloxacin fights bacteria in the body. Levofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections of the skin, sinuses, kidneys, bladder, or prostate. Levofloxacin is also used to treat bacterial infections that cause bronchitis or pneumonia, and to treat people who have been exposed to anthrax or plague. Levofloxacin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. What is the most important information I should know about levofloxacin (Levaquin)? You should not use this medication if you are allergic to levofloxacin or similar antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro), gemifloxacin (Factive), moxifloxacin (Avelox), ofloxacin (Floxin), norfloxacin (Noroxin), and others.
Levaquin is the brand name for levofloxacin, a prescription drug used to treat a variety of bacterial infections, such as: 1  Pneumonia. 2  Acute bacterial sinusitis. 3  Chronic bronchitis worsened by bacterial infections. 4  Skin infections. 5  Chronic prostate gland infection. 6  Urinary tract infection. 7  Acute kidney infection. Levaquin belongs to a class of antibacterial agents called fluoroquinolones, which kill bacteria by inhibiting the activity of certain enzymes bacteria require to replicate, transcribe, repair, and recombine DNA.
Levofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. It is also used to prevent an anthrax infection after a person has been exposed to anthrax. 