The Activity Series of metals is a very essential part in predicting the result of many reactions. The Activity series is a chart which list's metals in order of declining re … activity. The metals on the top of the series are the most reactive and the ones in the bottom are the least reactive. The first five elements on the chart are highly reactive metals; which will react with water and steam. An activity series is used to predict whether metals will displace  hydrogen gas from water and acid solutions. It is also used to  predict whether metals will displace othe … r metals.
The Activity Series of metals is a very essential part in predicting the result of many reactions. The Activity series is a chart which list's metals in order of declining re … activity. The metals on the top of the series are the most reactive and the ones in the bottom are the least reactive. The first five elements on the chart are highly reactive metals; which will react with water and steam. 
Explain how the activity series can be used to predict single displacement reactions. Consult your textbook. The activity series can be used to predict the occurance of single displacement reactions by analyzing which elements are more reactive or less reactive than others. Morea reactive elements on the activity series would displace another element below of it. 
Activity series or reactivity series can be used to compare the reactivity of different metals. The series of elements in which they are arranged in the increasing order of their reactivity is called as activity series. A replacement reaction takes place when one metal replaces the other in its aqueous solution. The activity series is a list of elements organized according to their tendency to react (their reactivity). The more readily an element reacts with other substances, the greater is its activity. A list of all the elements and their reactivity can be summarized in the form of a table.
Only a metal higher in the reactivity series will displace another. A metal can displace metal ions listed below it in the activity series, but not above. For example, zinc is more active than copper and is able to displace copper ions from solution.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Activity Series Definition: The activity series of metals is an list of metals ranked in order of decreasing reactivity to displace hydrogen gas from water and acid solutions. It can also be used to predict which metals will displace other metals in aqueous solutions. Also Known As: Reactivity Series of Metals. 
Tomihahndorf, Public Domain. The activity series of metals is an empirical tool used to predict products in displacement reactions and reactivity of metals with water and acids in replacement reactions and ore extraction. It can be used to predict the products in similar reactions involving a different metal. The activity series is a chart of metals listed in order of declining relative reactivity. The top metals are more reactive than the metals on the bottom. For example, both magnesium and zinc can react with hydrogen ions to displace H 2 from a solution by the reactions: Mg(s) + 2 H + (aq) → H 2 (g) + Mg 2+ (aq).
The activity series is a useful guide for predicting the products of metal displacement reactions. For example, placing a strip of zinc metal in a copper(II) sulfate solution will produce metallic copper and zinc sulfate, since zinc is above copper on the series. Top-ranked metals displace the ions of metals lower in the series from solution. A free-energy based series is used in this tutorial to show how and why active metals displace less active on
An activity series is a list of substances ranked in order of relative reactivity. For example, magnesium metal can knock hydrogen ions out of solution, so it is considered more reactive than elemental hydrogen: Zinc can also displace hydrogen ions from solution: so zinc is also more active than hydrogen. Top-ranked metals displace the ions of metals lower in the series from solution. A free-energy based series is used in this tutorial to show how and why active metals displace less active on