Iron deficiency anemia is the most common form of anemia. Red blood cells bring oxygen to the body's tissues. Healthy red blood cells are made in your bone marrow. Red blood cells circulate through your body for 3 to 4 months. Parts of your body, such as your spleen, remove old blood cells.
Iron-deficiency anemia is a common, easily treated condition that occurs if you don't have enough iron in your body. Low iron levels usually are due to blood loss, poor diet, or an inability to absorb enough iron from food. Overview. Iron-deficiency anemia is a common type of anemia.
1 Iron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency and the leading cause of anemia in the United States. 2  Iron deficiency is due either to increased need for iron by the body or a decreased absorption or amount of iron taken in.
Iron-deficiency anemia is the most common type of anemia, which occurs when your body does not have enough of the mineral iron. Your body needs iron to produce a protein called hemoglobin, which is responsible for carrying oxygen to your body’s tissues. Your tissues and muscles need oxygen to function effectively.
Causes. Iron deficiency anemia occurs when your body doesn't have enough iron to produce hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the part of red blood cells that gives blood its red color and enables the red blood cells to carry oxygenated blood throughout your body.
The most common symptom of all types of anemia is fatigue (tiredness). Fatigue occurs because your body doesn't have enough red blood cells to carry oxygen to its many parts. Also, the red blood cells your body makes have less hemoglobin than normal. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein in red blood cells.
Iron deficiency is one of the most common causes of anemia, and blood loss is the most common cause of iron deficiency in adults. In men and postmenopausal women, iron deficiency usually indicates bleeding in the digestive tract. In premenopausal women, menstrual bleeding is the most common cause of iron deficiency.