Meaning of Kimberly. English name. In English, the name Kimberly means-ruler.The name Kimberly originated as an English name. The name Kimberly is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-ruler.
What Does KIMBERLY Mean and History? From the name of the city of Kimberley in South Africa, which was named after Lord KIMBERLEY (1826-1902). The city came to prominence in the late 19th century during the Boer War. Kimberly has been used as a given name since the mid-20th century, eventually becoming very popular as a feminine name.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Kimberly is a baby girl name. The name Kimberly comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kimberly is: From the wood of the royal forest. From the royal fortress meadow.
English Meaning: The name Kimberly is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kimberly is: From the wood of the royal forest. From the royal fortress meadow. A surname and place name that can be used for both genders, although it is more commonly used as a girl's name. American Meaning: In American the meaning of the name Kimberly is: From the wood of the royal forest. From the royal fortress meadow. A surname and place name that can be used for both genders, although it is more commonly used as a girl's name.
Kimberly /kim-ber-ly/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Kimberly) is pronounced KIM-ber-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Kimberly is Cyneburg's field. Place name and surname: Cyneburg was an Old English personal name meaning  royal forest . Masculine use of the name can be traced back to the Boer War, when English soldiers were fighting in the South African town of Kimberley. Judge Kimba Wood. Kimberly is a very prominent first name for females (#24 out of 4276, Top 1%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#11994 out of 150436, Top 8%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kimberly for girls.
Meaning & History. From the name of the city of Kimberley in South Africa, which was named after Lord KIMBERLEY (1826-1902). The city came to prominence in the late 19th century during the Boer War. Kimberly has been used as a given name since the mid-20th century, eventually becoming very popular as a feminine name.
Others think it to be derived from Lord Kimberley, whose name is believed to be a compound name composed of an Old English personal name of unknown meaning and lēah (wood, clearing, meadow, enclosure). Kimberely originated as a male name but is now more common as a female name. Var: Kimberlee, Kimberly. Short: Kim. 