“He had every single iota of possible documentation you could imagine upfront,” said Sheldon, who’s a senior loan officer in Santa Rosa, Calif., and regularly writes about mortgages for Credit.com. That three-day turnaround was unusual, but so was the time it took roughly two months to get mortgage approval. “We actually just had one that went upward of 45 days (for final loan approval) because the borrower’s financial picture kept changing.”. The cleaner your financial history, the faster your approval process is likely to go, but speed is more reliant on how much information you provide your lender from the beginning.
Ask the lender upfront how long it will take to approve your loan. It can't hurt to ask the lender the average time it took to process recent mortgage loans, suggests HSH.com. Generally, a lender will ask to see your pay stubs for the last two to three months, W-2 forms and income tax returns with attached schedules from the last two years and bank statements from the previous three months. If the lender asks for additional documentation, get the paperwork submitted as quickly as you can.
The entire application, underwriting and funding process could take anywhere from 30 – 60 days. If it takes less than 30 days, you’ve got a highly efficient mortgage team. If it takes longer than 60 days, there’s some kind of problem slowing things down. It gives you a good idea how long it takes to get approved for an FHA loan. But there are some other preliminary steps we should talk about. In reality, the FHA process starts long before the loan application — or at least, it should. Here are the steps I recommend people take when applying
Ask the Lender. Ask the lender upfront how long it will take to approve your loan. It can't hurt to ask the lender the average time it took to process recent mortgage loans, suggests HSH.com. If you don’t like the answer you get, try another lender. Generally, a lender will ask to see your pay stubs for the last two to three months, W-2 forms and income tax returns with attached schedules from the last two years and bank statements from the previous three months. If the lender asks for additional documentation, get the paperwork submitted as quickly as you can.
The exact time it will take to close an SBA loan varies by case. For instance, one factor is how long it will take you to complete your well-researched business plan or financials --- that could take several weeks or even months. Beyond that, the amount of time it takes to finalize an SBA loan largely depends on the lender's timeline. Expect the process to take a minimum of 60 to 90 days.
A loan approval process should take anywhere from 1 day to 1 month, depending on the size and type of loan applied for, as well as the credit risk and underwriting needed for the borrower. 
0. Actually it should take a couple of days just from the particular time an underwriter receives a loan file to provide approval what you really refer to as an official approval. But if in case your file is having any problem related to credit score or any document related issue than it may take much time to approve. Link. 0. For getting an official approval for a loan would take 3 – 4 working days to be underwritten. I’m talking about 3 -4 days only if all your documents are completed and fit according to the wants. Else, it would be a long procedure, as the process is going start away from a new end.