Sunstone is a gem-quality member of the feldspar group of minerals. It is famed for its aventurescence, often referred to as 'schiller'. Sunstone may also be traded as 'aventurine feldspar', but nowadays, the term ' aventurine ' is primarily used only in reference to the green quartz known as 'aventurine'. Although sunstone deposits can be found in various locations around the world, there is no single source from which it is commercially mined. Some of the more significant, notable deposits come from India, Canada, Madagascar, Norway, Russia and the USA (Oregon, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Utah).
The value of gem-quality sunstone is determined by its color, transparency, and the quality of aventurescence. Colorless and yellow stones are usually the least expensive and values increase through pink, orange and red. Bright red stones, green stones and nice bicolor stones have the highest values. The inclusions in sunstone can be so small that they are not visible to the unaided eye, or they can be large enough to be clearly visible. The inclusions are extremely thin. Even though they might be large enough to be clearly seen face-on, they are usually too thin to be visible when viewed from the side.
Sunstone is an interesting feldspar gemstone with a glittery appearance and usually an orange or reddish color, hence its name. The glitter effect is caused by inclusions of the mineral Hematite, or sometimes also Goethite or Pyrite (and in one rare instance, Copper). Sunstone is very similar in habit to Aventurine, a form of Quartz that exhibits the same glittering Aventurescence effect. Sunstone is occasionally called 'Aventurine Feldspar' to distinguish it from its Quartz counterpart.
Sunstone occurs in a range of colors that begins with colorless and ranges through yellow, orange and red. The color is determined, in part, by the abundance and size of the copper platelets within the stone. The inclusions in sunstone can be so small that they are not visible to the unaided eye, or they can be large enough to be clearly visible. The inclusions are extremely thin. Even though they might be large enough to be clearly seen face-on, they are usually too thin to be visible when viewed from the side.
Sunstone is a plagioclase feldspar, which when viewed from certain directions exhibits a brilliant spangled appearance; this led to its use by the Vikings to locate the Sun for navigational purposes. It has been found in Southern Norway, Sweden and in various United States localities. I. The optical effect appears to be due to reflections from inclusions of red copper, in the form of minute scales, which are hexagonal, rhombic, or irregular in shape, and are disposed parallel to the principal cleavage-plane.
Sunstone is a member of the Feldspar family, and is named for its warm shades of gold, orange, reds and browns that sparkle like the sun. Inclusions of Goethite or Hematite refract light between the different crystal layers and produce an iridescent effect as the stone is viewed from various angles. Sunstone which is gold in color is the natural birthstone of those born in the magical month of midsummer (July 22 - August 21). Gold crystals bring you success, enthusiasm, happiness, and power. Sunstone which is orange in color is the true birthstone of those born at the end of summer (August 22 - September 22).
The name sunstone is used for specimens of translucent to transparent feldspar that produce bright metallic flashes when light interacts with tiny plate-like mineral inclusions within the stone. The inclusions in sunstone can be so small that they are not visible to the unaided eye, or they can be large enough to be clearly visible. The inclusions are extremely thin. Even though they might be large enough to be clearly seen face-on, they are usually too thin to be visible when viewed from the side.
-Oregon sunstone, also known as heliolite, is a transparent feldspar with colors ranging from water clear through pale yellow, soft pink, and blood red to (extremely rare) deep blue and green. For decades, however, the term sunstone has been used for these Oregon gem feldspars both with and without schiller. Oregon sunstones are a calcium-rich variety of plagioclase feldspar named labradorite, a common mineral in basaltic lava flows.
Sunstone. Learn about the metaphysical properties and crystal meanings of Sunstone such as abundance. Sunstone Pendant Example. Sunstone is a powerful stone used in crystal energy work for dispelling fears and phobias of all kinds. It is also a leadership stone, and brings leadership qualities to its wearer. In addition to dispelling fears and phobias, sunstone is also used to decrease stress and lift depression