Homozygous sickle cell disease is the most common cause of hemolytic normocytic anemias in children. Because of longevity, this disease is also becoming an increasingly prevalent cause of these anemias in adults. 11 – 13. Hereditary spherocytosis is the most common red blood cell membrane disorder. Endocrine deficiency states, including hypothyroidism, adrenal or pituitary insufficiency, and hypogonadism, may cause secondary bone marrow failure because of reduced stimulation of erythropoietin secretion. Hyperthyroidism may also cause normocytic anemia.
There are three main types of anemia: that due to blood loss, that due to decreased red blood cell production, and that due to increased red blood cell breakdown. Causes of blood loss include trauma and gastrointestinal bleeding, among others. Broadly, causes of anemia may be classified as impaired red blood cell (RBC) production, increased RBC destruction (hemolytic anemias), blood loss and fluid overload (hypervolemia). Several of these may interplay to cause anemia eventually.
Its prevalence increases with age, reaching 44 percent in men older than 85 years. Normocytic anemia is the most frequently encountered type of anemia. Anemia of chronic disease, the most common normocytic anemia, is found in 6 percent of adult patients hospitalized by family physicians. Endocrine deficiency states, including hypothyroidism, adrenal or pituitary insufficiency, and hypogonadism, may cause secondary bone marrow failure because of reduced stimulation of erythropoietin secretion. Hyperthyroidism may also cause normocytic anemia.
1 The major causes of this type are iron deficiency (low level iron) anemia and thalassemia (inherited disorders of hemoglobin). 2  If the red blood cells size are normal in size (but low in number), this is called normocytic anemia, such as anemia that accompanies chronic disease or anemia related to kidney disease. 1 In general, there are three major types of anemia, classified according to the size of the red blood cells: 2  If the red blood cells are smaller than normal, this is called microcytic anemia. 3 
Anemia occurs in acute and chronic renal failure. The anemia is usually normocytic but may be microcytic. In renal failure, anemia occurs in part because uremic metabolites decrease the lifespan of circulating red blood cells and reduce erythropoiesis. Endocrine deficiency states, including hypothyroidism, adrenal or pituitary insufficiency, and hypogonadism, may cause secondary bone marrow failure because of reduced stimulation of erythropoietin secretion. Hyperthyroidism may also cause normocytic anemia.
Congenital normocytic anemia is caused by the breaking up of red blood cells. Sickle cell disease is a congenital disorder of red blood cells. The most common cause of the acquired form of normocytic anemia is a long-term (chronic) disease. Chronic diseases that can cause normocytic anemia include kidney disease, cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and thyroiditis. Some medicines can cause you to have normocytic anemia, but this does not happen often. It means you have normal-sized red blood cells, but you have a low number of them. The presence of normal-sized red blood cells tells your doctor that you have normocytic anemia rather than another kind of anemia. For example, when anemia is caused by having too little iron in your diet, you have small red blood cells.
Normochromic Anemia is a type of medical condition in which the number of red blood cells is within the normal range and they are normal colored and sized also. It includes hemolytic anemia, aplastic posthemorrhagic and anemia related to chronic diseases. It is also called as Normocytic Anemia. 
1 If the red blood cells size are normal in size (but low in number), this is called normocytic anemia, such as anemia that accompanies chronic disease or anemia related to kidney disease. 2  If red blood cells are larger than normal, then it is called macrocytic anemia. 1 In general, there are three major types of anemia, classified according to the size of the red blood cells: 2  If the red blood cells are smaller than normal, this is called microcytic anemia. 3  The major causes of this type are iron deficiency (low level iron) anemia and thalassemia (inherited disorders of hemoglobin).
Hematopoiesis, by the way, refers to the formation of blood. Normocytic anemia is characterized by normocytic cells, or red blood cells that are of a normal size. Meaning, our MCV is within normal limits on the CBC. The most common cause of normocytic anemia is anemia of chronic disease. Anemia of chronic disease refers to anemia as a result of long-standing medical conditions. It is suspected that inflammatory molecules destroy red blood cell precursors in the bone marrow, resulting in anemia