1 Three species of zebras live in Africa. 2  The species are the Plains Zebra, which is the most common one, the Mountain Zebra, and the Grevy Zebra. 3  Zebras are a short, stocky animal that is generally about 8 feet long and stands between 4 and 5 feet at the shoulder. 
Zebras the relatives of horses having grey or black strips on overall white body are the animals that can be easily found in African countries such as Namibia, South Africa, Angola, Kenya and Ethiopia. They prefer to live in a place where they can easily get access to grass and an adequate supply of water. This post shares the exact details about where do zebras live and has been written after extensive search and hard work. Zebras are fond of dry places and can be found in deserts of Africa very easily.
With the many species of zebra, few zebra species have advanced habitats in contrast to others. Plains zebras are one of them. Plains zebras typically live in extensive country grasslands, African trees, and African savannahs. Rarely, these kinds of zebras are known for living at elevations above 13,000 feet. Plains zebras stay away from dense forests and deserts and they live in shrub lands and grasslands.
The male zebra is that's why called as stallion. In each group there is one stallion and various female zebras with the young zebras as well. The entire family keeps united even in the group as well. Also where do zebras live has a direct connection with their ages as well. This post shares the exact details about where do zebras live and has been written after extensive search and hard work. Zebras are fond of dry places and can be found in deserts of Africa very easily.
The difference between these three types of zebras is only about where do zebras live and the answer is that they live at different places. One type of zebra wants to live on mountains and is known as a mountain zebras. Second type lives on plain, grassy lands and is called as Burchell's zebras. This post shares the exact details about where do zebras live and has been written after extensive search and hard work. Zebras are fond of dry places and can be found in deserts of Africa very easily.
Where Do Zebras Live. Few zebra species have superior habitats in comparison to others. Plains zebra is one of them. These species are akin to live in wide country grasslands, African savannahs and African trees. Even though seldom, these zebras are also known to reside at an elevation of about 13,000 feet (4,000 m). These animals tend to stay away from deserts or dense forests. Zebras Grazing. Unlike plains zebras, mountain zebras do not apt to live beyond an elevation of 6,500 feet (2,000 m) above sea level. Rather they prefer to live at the mountainous slopes of South Africa. With their naturist ability to migrate, these animals do not preferably reside at one place.
Though they all live in Africa, each species of zebra has its own home area. Plains zebras live in the treeless grasslands and woodlands of eastern and southern Africa. The Grevy's zebra lives in in the arid grasslands of Ethiopia and northern Kenya. The mountain zebra is found in South Africa, Namibia and Angola. Plains zebras and mountain zebras live in family groups led by a stallion, with several mares and offspring. Family groups (known as harems) sometimes get together to form loosely associated herds, according to the San Diego Zoo. However, Grevy's zebras don't have herds.
Plains zebras have a wide range in east and southern Africa. They usually live in treeless grasslands and savanna woodlands and are absent from deserts, rainforests, and wetlands. This species’ habitat is shrinking, however, and plains zebras are now extinct in Burundi and Lesotho. Tags: Botswana, DRC, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Samburu, East Africa, Southern Africa View Africa | Habitat. 
Equus grevyi can be found in the plains and are larger type zebras. They have many more strips than the smaller zebras. The plains zebras are the most common type of zebra. So the zebra’s habitat has a lot to do with their size and health. Zebras can live anywhere from twenty to thirty years in the wild. Because the zebras all migrate they have longer legs and hard hooves. Learning about a Zebra’s Habitat. To learn about a zebra it helps to know about the zebra’s habitat. Where these horse like animals thrive and flourish, gives us a peek into how they live and survive.