However, in children with conduct disorder, these symptoms occur more frequently and interfere with learning, school adjustment, and, sometimes, with the child's relationships with others. The following are the most common symptoms of conduct disorder. However, each child may experience symptoms differently. The 4 main groups of behaviors include the following: Aggressive conduct. Aggressive conduct causes or threatens physical harm to others and may include the following: Intimidating behavior. Bullying.
Conduct disorder is more common among boys than girls, with studies indicating that the rate among boys in the general population ranges from 6% to 16% while the rate among girls ranges from 2% to 9%. Conduct disorder can have its onset early, before age 10, or in adolescence. Children who display early-onset conduct disorder are at greater risk for persistent difficulties, however, and they are also more likely to have troubled peer relationships and academic problems. 
1 Further, many children and teens with conduct disorder also have other mental illnesses, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) , learning disorders, depression, substance abuse, or an anxiety disorder, which may contribute to the symptoms of conduct disorder. 1 Genetics: Many children and teens with conduct disorder have close family members with mental illnesses, including mood disorders, anxiety disorders, substance use disorders and personality disorders. 2  This suggests that a vulnerability to conduct disorder may be at least partially inherited.
There are three types of conduct disorder. They are labeled according to the age at which the symptoms first occur. The three types of conduct disorder are: 1  childhood onset (signs of conduct disorder appear before 10 years old). 2  adolescent onset (signs of conduct disorder appear during the teenage years). 3  unspecified onset (the age that conduct disorder first occurs is unknown).
Overview. Conduct disorder is a group of behavioral and emotional problems that usually begins during childhood or teenage years. People with the disorder have a long-term and continual pattern of behavior that violates the rights of others or goes against what is deemed normal by society for their age group. The three types of conduct disorder are: 1  childhood onset (signs of conduct disorder appear before 10 years old). 2  adolescent onset (signs of conduct disorder appear during the teenage years). 3  unspecified onset (the age that conduct disorder first occurs is unknown).
Conduct Disorder Symptoms. By Psych Central Staff ~ 2 min read. The essential feature of Conduct Disorder is a repetitive and persistent pattern of behavior by a child or teenager in which the basic rights of others or major age-appropriate societal norms or rules are violated. 
In the United States, prevalence rates for conduct disorder (CD) are estimated at 2-9%, 5 out of every 100 teenagers, according to various nonclinical samples summarized by Costello in 1990, and are complicated by relatively high rates of co-occurrence or comorbidity with other disorders. 
Conduct disorder is a serious behavioral and emotional disorder that can occur in children and teens. A child with this disorder may display a pattern of disruptive and violent behavior and have problems following rules. 
Course Conduct Disorder may be diagnosed in adults, however, symptoms of Conduct Disorder usually emerge in childhood or adolescence, and onset is rare after age 16. Conduct disorder, to be diagnosed, must last 6 months or longer. Most children or adolescents with conduct disorder grow out of this disorder, but if this behavior persists past age 18 and intensifies, the diagnosis is changed to antisocial personality disorder.