Know your nose The nasal cavity is divided into two passages by the nasal septum. The nasal septum is composed of both bone and cartilage and extends from the nostrils to the back of the throat. Bones called nasal conchae project into the lateral walls of the nasal cavity, forming a series of folds called turbinates. There are three turbinates on each side of the nasal cavity and are lined by a thick mucous membrane. Turbinates greatly increase the surface area of the nasal cavity. During inhalation air is directed over and under the turbinates. Lining the nasal cavity is a mucous membrane rich with blood vessels. As air passes over the nasal mucosa it is prepared and conditioned to safely pass deeper into the respiratory system and ultimately end up in the lungs. The heat radiated from the blood vessels warms the air to near body temperature
The nasal cavity (or nasal fossa) is a large air filled space above and behind the nose in the middle of the face. Each cavity is the continuation of one of the two nostrils. 
When you inhale, air is drawn into the nasal cavity, which warms, moistens and filters the incoming air. The nasal cavity includes mucus, immunologic tissue in the form of the … adenoids to combat allergens, and a pathway to excrete mucus during times of infection/illness. In addition, neuroreceptors for the sense of smell are located in the nasal cavity. + 73 others found this useful. Mark Laminack
Introduction. The nasal cavity refers to the interior of the nose, or the structure which opens exteriorly at the nostrils. It is the entry point for inspired air and the first of a series of structures which form the respiratory system. Anatomy of the nasal cavity. The nasal cavity extends from the external opening, the nostrils, to the pharynx (the upper section of the throat), where it joins the remainder of the respiratory system. It is separated down the middle by the nasal septum, a piece of cartilage which shapes and separates
Like the nasal cavity, the sinuses are lined with a mucous membrane composed of cells that produce mucus and have cilia. Incoming dirt particles are trapped by the mucus, and then moved by the cilia into the nasal cavity, through small sinus openings. There are three turbinates on each side of the nasal cavity and are lined by a thick mucous membrane. Turbinates greatly increase the surface area of the nasal cavity. During inhalation air is directed over and under the turbinates. Lining the nasal cavity is a mucous membrane rich with blood vessels. As air passes over the nasal mucosa it is prepared and conditioned to safely pass deeper into the respiratory system and ultimately end up in the lungs. The heat radiated from the blood vessels warms the air to near body temperature
From the nasal cavity its continuity with the conjunctiva may be traced, through the nasolacrimal and lacrimal ducts; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the nasal conchae. It is also thick over the septum; but it is very thin in the meatuses on the floor of the nasal cavities, and in the various sinuses. It is one of the most commonly infected tissues in adults and children. Structure of the Mucous Membrane (Fig. 857).—The epithelium covering the mucous membrane differs in its character according to the functions of the part of the nose in which it is found. In the respiratory region it is columnar and ciliated
Most of the nasal and paranasal sinus cavities contain repiratory epithelium, that is pseudo-stratified columnar ciliated epithelium with many goblet cells (mucus producing). This respiratory epithelium continues down the whole respiratory tract. Respiratory mucous membrane, lines the lower part of the cavity. Its function is to warm, moisten and clean inspired air: 1  The warming is accomplished with the presence of a plexus (collection) of veins in the submucous connective tissue (which is why you bleed so much when you get a nose bleed). 
The nasal mucous membrane lines the nasal cavities, and is intimately adherent to the periosteum or perichondrium. It is continuous with the skin through the nares, and with the mucous membrane of the nasal part of the pharynx through the choanae. Structure of the Mucous Membrane (Fig. 857).—The epithelium covering the mucous membrane differs in its character according to the functions of the part of the nose in which it is found. In the respiratory region it is columnar and ciliated