If you’ve ever wanted to know which is the best superhero movie or the worst superhero movie ever, I’ve compiled Rotten Tomatoes’ ratings below. If you’re interested in a comparison of how DC’s movies stack up against Marvel’s, please see this article. Superhero Films Since 2000. 
For kicks, we thought we'd see how many films have been granted the envious 100% score. Turns out the pickings aren't as far and few as we imagined. There are tens of films toting a perfect score—100 to be exact. Rotten Tomatoes keeps an ongoing tally of their highest-rated films. We've put together the top ten for your viewing pleasure. So, if you're sitting around on a Friday night and aren't sure what to watch, check out one of these top-rated films
The first thing we learned was that a film's Tomatometer rating is strongly influenced by its age. Films from the 1920s, for instance, have an average Tomatometer rating around 91 percent, while films from the 1990s average around 55 percent. In the Rotten Tomatoes database, more than 19,000 actors and 2,000 directors had their first film released in 1985 or later. The average actor's critical reception gets slightly worse over the course of his first few movies, then plateaus. The average score for an actor's first film is about
TOMATOMETER: 100 percent. AUDIENCE SCORE: 91 percent. Rated the best drama film, “Citizen Kane” is regarded as an “entertaining, poignant, and inventive in its storytelling, earning its reputation as a landmark achievement in film,” according to the critics on Rotten Tomatoes. Classic drama films often create universes with realistic settings or life situations to which the audience can connect. These movies often touch upon universal human emotions and occurrences, which is what makes them so poignant. The very best are heralded in classic drama movie reviews. Rotten Tomatoes, a website created and dedicated to providing film reviews and news, gives films its “TOMATOMETER” rating. The score is declared by the staff, who use the opinions of reviewers everywhere to come up with it
Congratulations are in order for the individuals whose work is, at least statistically, perfect. Rotten Tomatoes provides us with its 100 highest-rated films, all of which hold the rare honor of having earned 100 percent positive reviews from critics. Consider this your next must-see list. *While these movies all possess 100 percent scores on Rotten Tomatoes, they are listed according to number of reviews. Close. 
List of films with a 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. On the film review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, films which are reviewed by at least five critics, and which all of these critics consider to be good films, have a 100% rating. A number of the films also appear in the AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies lists, but there are many others, and several entries with dozens of positive reviews which are considered surprising to some experts.
The Godfather is among Rotten Tomatoes top ten best-critiqued films of all time. Rotten Tomatoes is notorious for being the end-all for seeing a movie. The film site rates pictures as fresh or rotten according to critic's reviews. There are tens of films toting a perfect score—100 to be exact. Rotten Tomatoes keeps an ongoing tally of their highest-rated films. We've put together the top ten for your viewing pleasure.
Not only the greatest samurai film ever made, arguably one of the greatest war/battle movies ever made. It’s the main inspiration for The Magnificent Seven and probably for a lot of Tarantino’s upcoming The Hateful Eight. The perfect 100% on Rotten Tomatoes is just further proof of the film’s greatness. Of course, any film that scores a 99% on Rotten Tomatoes can’t just be a couple hours of food porn, Jiro Dreams of Sushi will make you salivate while taking you inside Sukiyabashi Jiro’s little joint inside a Tokyo subway station to see how a true master works. Rotten Tomatoes Amazon iTunes Netflix.