Electrical load lists are documents that list major draws and users of electrical power; mainly motors. You may encounter the following terminology and short forms in these documents: This entry was posted in Electrical Engineering and tagged api 610, bhp, brake horsepower, electrical load list, electrical loads, electrical power, hhp, hydraulic horsepower, motor, peak demand, power distribution, pump. Bookmark the permalink.
In the previous topic, Electrical Load Classification and Types – Part Two, I listed all the Electrical Load Classification according to Load Nature (1) and today I will list the Electrical Load Classification according to Load Nature (2) and according to load function. You can review the Electrical Load Classification and Types list represented in the previous topic; Electrical Load Classification and Types – Part One for more information and good following.
Figure 1. Example of an electrical load schedule. The electrical load schedule is an estimate of the instantaneous electrical loads operating in a facility, in terms of active, reactive and apparent power (measured in kW, kVAR and kVA respectively). 1 Step 1: Collect a list of the expected electrical loads in the facility. 2  Step 2: For each load, collect the electrical parameters, e.g. nominal / absorbed ratings, power factor, efficiency, etc. 3  Step 3: Classify each of the loads in terms of switchboard location, load duty and load criticality.
The term is used more broadly in electronics for a device connected to a signal source, whether or not it consumes power. If an electric circuit has an output port, a pair of terminals that produces an electrical signal, the circuit connected to this terminal (or its input impedance) is the load. For example, if a CD player is connected to an amplifier, the CD player is the source and the amplifier is the load.
An electrical load is an electrical component or portion of a circuit that consumes electric power. This is opposed to a power source, such as a battery or generator, which produces power. In electric power circuits examples of loads are appliances and lights. The term may also refer to the power consumed by a circuit. If an electric circuit has an output port, a pair of terminals that produces an electrical signal, the circuit connected to this terminal (or its input impedance) is the load. For example, if a CD player is connected to an amplifier, the CD player is the source and the amplifier
You can also use an AC power source (like a generator) to power DC loads, if you have an AC to DC convertor.. DC (direct current) electricity is the type stored by batteries and is what powers your automobile electrical system (lights, radio, etc.). In most cases, both the electrical system (wiring, switches, etc.) and the loads it provides power to are rated for either AC or DC current. It is important to keep AC and DC electrical loads and systems separate.
Step 1: Collect list of loads. The first step is to gather a list of all the electrical loads that will be supplied by the power system affected by the load schedule. There are generally two types of loads that need to be collected: 1  Process loads-are the loads that are directly relevant to the facility. 1 Step 1: Collect a list of the expected electrical loads in the facility. 2  Step 2: For each load, collect the electrical parameters, e.g. nominal / absorbed ratings, power factor, efficiency, etc. 3  Step 3: Classify each of the loads in terms of switchboard location, load duty and load criticality.
A calculated load in electrical terminology is the sum of all of the loads that are connected to a system. To size a service distribution for a home all of the connected loads … have to be calculated in. Some loads can be derated as per the electrical code. The load is the general name for the the thing that absorbs the  power that is supplied. So in your kitchen the cooker, toaster and  refrigerator are all classed as loads. F … or an electrician what  matters is how much power the load requires.