Blogs The Real Housewives of Orange County. Working actress and stay-at-home mother Heather Dubrow joined the cast in Season 7. Married to prominent Newport Beach plastic surgeon, Terry Dubrow, they have four children, 11-year-old twins Nicholas and Maximillia, 8-year-old Katarina, and 4-year-old, Collette.
Heather and Dr Dubrow have 4 children. The eldest are twins, Nicholas Dubrow and Maximilla. They are 8 years old. Katarina Dubrow is 5 years old and Collette Dubrow is 11 years old. Heather Dubrow used to live in New York. She moved to California, and is now equally used to both the East Coast and West Coast.
Heather Dubrow is a working actress and stay-at-home mother of four who joined the cast in season seven. Married to prominent Newport Beach plastic surgeon, Terry Dubrow, they have four children, 10-year-old twins Nicholas and Maximillia, 7-year-old Katarina, and 3-year-old, Collette.
For Heather's 2015 Bravo TV bio, it states: Working actress and stay-at-home mother Heather Dubrow joined the cast in Season 7. Married to prominent Newport Beach plastic surgeon, Terry Dubrow, they have four children, 11-year-old twins Nicholas and Maximillia, 8-year-old Katarina, and 4-year-old, Collette. Heather and Terry sold their home and are living in a rental house for two years while construction continues on their mega mansion.
Terry is the younger brother of the late heavy metal singer Kevin DuBrow, who performed in the band Quiet Riot. They reside in Orange County, California, and have four children: twins Nicholas and Maximillia (b. 2004), and daughters Katarina (b. 2007) and Collette (b. 2011).
Heather Dubrow takes a stroll with her husband Terry in the backyard of their home in Newport Coast. Heather is the newest housewife on the Real Housewives of Orange County.
Dubrow and Terry Dubrow wed in 1999, and have four children together: 11-year-old twins Nicholas and Maximillia, 8-year-old Katarina and 4-year-old Collette. Terry Dubrow is known for his work on The Swan and Bridalplasty, and co-hosted Botched and Good Work.