Berhanu Nega receives half a million “grant” from Egypt to run Ginbot 7 and ESAT (Audio). Awramba Times (Phoenix, Arizona) – Dr. Brhanu Nega, chairman of the outlawed Ginbot 7 has Confirmed in his own words that he received half a million Dollar to unseat the EPRDF led government of... The betrayal of Andargachew Tsige – SPECIAL REPORT (EthiopianReview.com) – For the past two months, Ethiopian Review has been investigating the shocking abduction of one of Ethiopia’s most senior opposition leaders, Ato Andargachew Tsige,...
Born in DebreZeyit, Berhanu attended Addis Ababa University where he participated in the student movement against the ruling Derg government in his freshman year. When the government acted against political dissidents in 1977, Berhanu with other radical student activists fled to Mount Asimba in northern Ethiopia. As the continuation of this practice, in late 2009 an Ethiopian court sentenced Berhanu to death, in absentia, along with four others (who were also sentenced in absentia), while 33 were sentenced to life in prison. Berhanu today is a full professor at Bucknell University.
He is a founding chairman of the Rainbow Ethiopia: Movement for Democracy and Social Justice and a Deputy Chairman of Coalition for Unity and Democracy (CUD), for whom he served as chief election campaign strategist. He is also the co-founder of Ginbot 7, an opposition party. As the continuation of this practice, in late 2009 an Ethiopian court sentenced Berhanu to death, in absentia, along with four others (who were also sentenced in absentia), while 33 were sentenced to life in prison. Berhanu today is a full professor at Bucknell University.
Awramba Times (Phoenix, Arizona) – Dr. Brhanu Nega, chairman of the outlawed Ginbot 7 has Confirmed in his own words that he received half a million Dollar to unseat the EPRDF led government of Ethiopia. In this leaked audio, Dr. Berhanu failed to disclose the source of the grant. 
Berhanu Nega was elected as mayor of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in the Ethiopian general elections, 2005. He is a founding chairman of the Rainbow Ethiopia: Movement for Democracy and Social Justice and a Deputy Chairman of Coalition for Unity and Democracy (CUD), for whom he served as chief election campaign strategist. 'The speakers of the meeting were Dr. Berhanu Nega of G7, Dr Nuro Dedefo of OLF and Dr. Getachew Begashaw (as an independent). I watched this meeting on YouTube and felt uncomfortable by Dr. Getachew Begashaw's appreciation of OLF and ONLF flying flags'.
It was the spring of 2001 and 43-year-old Berhanu Nega was optimistic. His homeland, Ethiopia, was recovering from decades of conflict, he had just given a speech to university students about academic freedom, and now he had landed at Charles de Gaulle Airport for a business conference in Paris. A week later, Nega was back in Ethiopia, behind bars. So began a 14-year-long ordeal that has seen Nega, one of Ethiopia’s leading activists, arrested and jailed twice — once for almost two years — exiled to the United States and finally, condemned to death, in absentia.
Dr. Berhanu Nega is born in Debre Zeyit, Ethiopia in 1958, he attended Addis Ababa University where he participated in the student movement against the ruling Derg government in his freshman year. Intending to contribute to the betterment of their homeland, Dr Berhanu, with his wife and his two children, returned to Ethiopia in 1994. Berhanu became an entrepreneur and founded the Ethiopian Agro-Maize, a fertilizer producing company, and Addis Village Family Home Builders.
Berhanu Nega (born 1958) was nominated to be the mayor of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in the Ethiopian general elections, 2005. As the continuation of this practice, in late 2009 an Ethiopian court sentenced Berhanu to death, in absentia, along with four others (who were also sentenced in absentia), while 33 were sentenced to life in prison. Berhanu today is a full professor at Bucknell University.
On May 14, 2008 Dr. Berhanu Nega, along with other former members of the CUD, founded a political movement called Ginbot 7, dedicated to Justice, Freedom and Democracy in Ethiopia, and to oppose Prime Minister Meles Zenawi.[7]. Intending to contribute to the betterment of their homeland, Dr Berhanu, with his wife and his two children, returned to Ethiopia in 1994. Berhanu became an entrepreneur and founded the Ethiopian Agro-Maize, a fertilizer producing company, and Addis Village Family Home Builders.
Therefore, the man who Ethiopians have once peacefully elected as mayor of the capital of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, Dr. Berhanu Nega, chairman of Patriotic Ginbot 7, has joined his comrades in arms on the ground where the soldiers of Patriotic Ginbot 7 have begun waging the battle to free Ethiopia. Some one from “x” has warned Dr. Berhanu Nega that he is in danger. After President obama’s visit there will be some agreements between the two countries. Ethiopia is fighting against terrorist while its insider terrorists are safely living in the US.