So even if a very safe and effective Lyme vaccine were developed for dogs, having your dog vaccinated for Lyme isn't going to lessen the need for tick prevention. So it's hard to make the risk vs. benefit analysis for Lyme vaccination come out on the benefit side, no matter how you work the math. For information on Lyme and all other tick diseases in dogs, there is no better resource anywhere than the Tick-L discussion list. In my opinion, the Lyme vaccine does not actually provide enough benefit to outweigh its substantial risks, despite the seriousness of canine Lyme Disease. The Lyme vaccine can cause an untreatable form of Lyme disease and, like all bacterial diseases, provides short term immunity.
Lyme disease dog vaccines are a basis for controversy in the veterinary world. When seeking means of prevention against tick bites and Lyme disease, a vaccination may seem like a viable option. Before making the decision to vaccinate your dog against this potentially deadly disease, there are a few points you should keep in mind. While you may successfully protect against some forms of Lyme disease, this does not prevent a tick from biting the dog and potentially transmitting viruses such as ehrlichia, Rocky Mountains Spotted Fever or babesiosis.
Lyme Disease in Dogs. Lyme disease is transmitted when an infected tick bites a dog and transfers the virus into the dog's bloodstream. Many dogs with healthy immune systems can fight off the virus naturally and never experience symptoms. While you may successfully protect against some forms of Lyme disease, this does not prevent a tick from biting the dog and potentially transmitting viruses such as ehrlichia, Rocky Mountains Spotted Fever or babesiosis.
There are other diseases that can be transmitted by tick bites—Lyme vaccine does not prevent those other infections. Tick control for all dogs in tick-infested locations is more important than vaccination. That is a great question. Unfortunately, veterinarians do not have a complete answer when it comes to the vaccine’s effectiveness. Some research suggests that vaccination appears to be fairly good in preventing infection in dogs not previously exposed to the Lyme organism.
3) Vaccination for Lyme disease. We have a highly effective Lyme vaccine that can be given to pets 9 weeks and older. Although some studies indicate our Lyme vaccine is nearly 100% efficacious, we also recommend using a tick prevention product as outlined above. Previous vaccination for Lyme disease does not interfere with these test results (a vaccinated dog will not be positive for Lyme simply because it has received the Lyme vaccine in the past). It takes a few weeks from the time of exposure for the development of a positive antibody Lyme test.
Diagnosing Lyme in Dogs There is a new test for Lyme disease in dogs, known as the Canine SNAP 3Dx or the C6 SNAP test, which tests for C6 antibodies to Lyme disease, and also tests for heartworm disease and ehrlichia canis, another tick borne disease. In my opinion, the Lyme vaccine does not actually provide enough benefit to outweigh its substantial risks, despite the seriousness of canine Lyme Disease. The Lyme vaccine can cause an untreatable form of Lyme disease and, like all bacterial diseases, provides short term immunity.
Unfortunately, there is no real nexus between the seriousness of a disease and the effectiveness or safety of a vaccine for that disease. In my opinion, the Lyme vaccine does not actually provide enough benefit to outweigh its substantial risks, despite the seriousness of canine Lyme Disease. The Lyme vaccine can cause an untreatable form of Lyme disease and, like all bacterial diseases, provides short term immunity.
Print. Email. You ask about the benefits of the canine vaccine against Lyme disease. That is a great question. Unfortunately, veterinarians do not have a complete answer when it comes to the vaccine’s effectiveness. Some research suggests that vaccination appears to be fairly good in preventing infection in dogs not previously exposed to the Lyme organism.
Lyme vaccine is an immunization that helps prevent Lyme disease from being passed to your dog. Lyme disease is caused by a spirochete bacterial strain called Borrelia burgdorferi that passes to your dog through the bite of certain types of ticks. While Lyme disease can be passed to your dog, Lyme vaccine typically is not recommended unless you live in an area with a high tick population. Treatment for Lyme disease is easy and relatively inexpensive, compared to the complications your dog is exposed to if vaccinated against the disease.