Becoming an LVN in Texas. Texas strives to ensure that all nurses in the state are competent to practice safely, hoping to advance the profession through collaboration, innovation, and leadership. Individuals can apply for an LVN license by exam or endorsement and meet an ever-growing demand for nurses in the state. LVN's for states outside of the compact area can apply for a Texas license by endorsement as long as their original licensing requirements are equivalent to those in Texas. Other requirements include: 1  Pass the State Board Test Pool Examination (SBTPE) or NCLEX-PN. 2  Currently employed as a LPN/LVN.
The licensed vocational nurse (LVN) also is known as a licensed practical nurse (LPN) in most states and as a registered practical nurse (RPN) in Canada. When a graduate nurse enters the health care field as a licensed practical or vocational nurse, that nurse will have distinct advantages to advancing a nursing career. 
Difference between LVN and LPN. In states other than Texas and California, a licensed vocational nurse (LVN) is known as a licensed practical nurse (LPN) and there is no difference in duties or qualifications between the two job titles. View a list of Texas nursing schools. Transition from LVN to Registered Nurse (RN). Many schools that offer LVN programs, also offer accelerated tracks to convert the LVN education to that required to become a
TO become an LVN in Texas educational requirements must be met by attending a program approved by the Texas Board of Nursing. Students must carry a “C” or above on all nursing courses. Once coursework is complete, the applicant must pass either the State Board Test Pool Examination (SBTPE) or the NCLEX. LVN's for states outside of the compact area can apply for a Texas license by endorsement as long as their original licensing requirements are equivalent to those in Texas. Other requirements include: 1  Pass the State Board Test Pool Examination (SBTPE) or NCLEX-PN. 2  Currently employed as a LPN/LVN.
Becoming an LVN in Texas. A licensed vocational nurse (LVN) performs many of the same basic duties as a registered nurse (RN), but require supervision from a physician, physician’s assistant, registered nurse or advanced practice nurses. Transition from LVN to Registered Nurse (RN). Many schools that offer LVN programs, also offer accelerated tracks to convert the LVN education to that required to become a
The typical salary range for a LVN in Texas ranges from $15.26 - $19.27/hour. And the median salary for a LVN in Texas is $17.34/hour. For you to compare, here's a link showing the median salary for a LVN in a few different cities in Texas: http://www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=... Of the cities shown there, Houston offers the highest LVN salary. LVN salaries will also depend on employment setting, experience and other factors.
Texas is a member of the nurse license compact, and has been since 2000. Nurses may be licensed by endorsement or examination. Texas uses the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN, as do all states. Texas RN candidates had a pass rate of 90.70% in 2012, very close to the national average of 90.22%. For LVN, the most recent reporting period is 2011; the pass rate was 86.73%
How to become an LVN. To become a licensed vocational nurse in Texas, you must complete a program at an accredited vocational nursing school (passing all nursing courses with at least a C) and then apply for the license by passing “NCLEX-PN” exams from the state. Transition from LVN to Registered Nurse (RN). Many schools that offer LVN programs, also offer accelerated tracks to convert the LVN education to that required to become a
Featured Nursing School. A licensed vocational nurse, or LVN, is California’s and Texas’ equivalent of the LPN, or licensed practical nurse. Both professions require patient care and interaction as well as a long list of responsibilities; the name just varies across states. 
LVN Programs in Texas. Choosing the right school is important if you're looking to become a Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN) in the state of Texas. There are almost 100 LVN schools across the state to choose from-made up of community colleges, vocational and technical centers, and private nursing schools. LVN's for states outside of the compact area can apply for a Texas license by endorsement as long as their original licensing requirements are equivalent to those in Texas. Other requirements include: 1  Pass the State Board Test Pool Examination (SBTPE) or NCLEX-PN. 2  Currently employed as a LPN/LVN.