For example, nitrogen deficiency causes leaves to yellow, starting with the oldest foliage. Iron-deficient roses yellow between the veins, while magnesium-deficient plants turn yellow starting at the margins. Magnesium deficiency may also cause small brown spots on the leaves. All these deficiencies can be corrected by measuring soil nutrients and pH, then amending the soil accordingly. For example, black spot produces round dark brown to black spotting and yellowing areas on leaves. Rose rust makes a brownish-red spot on the bottom of the leaf and a yellow patch on the top.
Shares & Saves. Save. Yellow leaves and brown spots on roses may be caused by pests, nutrient deficiency, environmental factors and diseases. Yellowing leaves may also be caused by excess water. Brown and black spots may be caused by fungus. Too much rain, irrigation or poor drainage can lead to yellow leaves. There are multiple reasons for yellow leaves and brown spots on roses, and treatment must be started after properly diagnosing the cause of the problem.
Overview. If your roses are displaying black spots and yellow leaves, the plants are infected with a fungal disease called black spot. Though the disease is referred to as black spot, other symptoms of the underlying problem, like yellowing of leaves, become apparent
Deep green leaves are a sign of a healthy rose bush. The combination of yellow leaves and brown spots on roses can occur for a number of reasons, including nutritional problems, watering and drainage issues, pests and a range of diseases. For example, black spot produces round dark brown to black spotting and yellowing areas on leaves. Rose rust makes a brownish-red spot on the bottom of the leaf and a yellow patch on the top.
However, heavy infections can seriously defoliate plants. Rose black spot is caused by fungus. Dark-brown to black leaf spots develop on the upper leaves, which eventually become yellow and drop. Black spot can be distinguished from other leaf spot diseases by its fringed edges and dark black color. Raised, reddish-purple spots may also appear on rose canes. 
Controlling black spot on roses is crucial to any rose grower. Black spot is a fungal disease characterized by black spots on the upper side of leaves. Tending to occur in warm, wet weather, usually during wet summers, the leaves of infected roses turn yellow and fall off. 
Blackspot on rose leaves-Photo by Irene Roth. Blackspot. Blackspot, Diplocarpon rosae, is a nasty fungus that manifests itself on rose bushes as black spots on leaves progressing to black spots fringed with yellow rings on both sides of the leaves. As they develop the spots enlarge. 
Symptoms and Damage. Late in the spring, roses develop tiny dark brown to black spots on leaf surfaces with edges that may begin to blur or that turn yellow; the spots grow up to 1/2 inch in diameter. Spots usually appear first in the lower regions of the rose plant and ascend the plant as the disease progresses. If your roses are displaying black spots and yellow leaves, the plants are infected with a fungal disease called black spot.
Pests or disease – Roses with yellow leaves can also be a sign that the rose has a pest or disease. There are many rose pests and roses diseases that cause yellow leaves. To help determine which it may be, look carefully on the rose bush for other signs of damage or symptoms of disease. Print This Article. 