Turkish Fouta. Fouta towel is a very special kind of Turkish bath towel woven with silk yarn. Fouta towels are the unique products has been preferred by a great society from Ottoman Sultans to the people of the modern age because of being silk, lightweight, extremely durable and its elegant image.
where to use them. Foutas can be used as towels, shawls, and wraps for the pool, beach, sauna, and park, as throws on a chair, and as tablecloths. The warm color of the fouta used as a tablecloth is the perfect accent for a summertime lunch on the porch. Whether used as an accessory in home decor, décor, travel or outdoor, leisure foutas are stylish solutions for all your. Needs they are 72. in x 40. (in.182 88 cm x.101 6), cm come in a variety of, colors textures and, patterns and are. multifaceted
Fouta Towels. Foutas are nice bath towels or beach towels that are classier than your regular terry-cloth towel. In the last couple of years, foutas have also become the ultimate home decor accessory in the US and in France. In your home, lay a fouta on your sofa, on a coffee table or on a bed to give your interior a new look. Or use our XXL fouta models as tablecloths or sofa covers. With their bright colors and simple patterns, these towels will instantly give your home a modern look and feel.
Our generously sized Fashion Fouta towels are all handwoven using 100% natural cotton. It is a wonderful luxurious, absorbant, and soft bath towel that can be paired with our coordinated guest towel or can be mixed and matched with any other original designs in our Fouta  Collection. Our products have won many awards of the best new bath product at the New York International Gift Fair and has been featured in magazine such as House Beautiful, Oprah, Elle decor, Architectural Digest, Martha Stewart, Traditional Home, In Style, Bon Appetit, Southern Living......
Maybe, you are still asking yourself  What is a Fouta  ????? Originally used as a towel in the ancient Hammam spa or Turkish bath, a Fouta can be used as a bath towel, beach towel, a wrap, a throw, a runner on a table, a tablecloth, a picnic blanket, a scarf and so much more. Our products have won many awards of the best new bath product at the New York International Gift Fair and has been featured in magazine such as House Beautiful, Oprah, Elle decor, Architectural Digest, Martha Stewart, Traditional Home, In Style, Bon Appetit, Southern Living......
Women wrap the pestemal from the armpit and men wrap from the waist. Turkish Towel Pestemal is preferred in travel because of being thin and light and also very easy to dry. It is absorptive as terrycloth. Peshtemal also used as authentic beach pareo as well as it used as beach towel. At the same time, pestemal is the traditional Turkish towel. Peshtemal has reached to the present from the historic Turkish hammam era. It has a history of nearly six hundred years in Anatolia.
Their vivid colors will look great by the pool. Fouta towels can also prove very useful when you go on a hike or a picnic. Grab a fouta or two in your backpack or basket and put them on the ground as you take a lunch break. Foutas are an easy way to create a nice space around you. In your home, lay a fouta on your sofa, on a coffee table or on a bed to give your interior a new look. Or use our XXL fouta models as tablecloths or sofa covers. With their bright colors and simple patterns, these towels will instantly give your home a modern look and feel.
What is Pestemal. Pestemal is a woven cloth that used to cover the body in hammam or bath, or wrapped from the waist to prevent contamination of clothes while working. At the same time, pestemal is the traditional Turkish towel. Peshtemal has reached to the present from the historic Turkish hammam era. It has a history of nearly six hundred years in Anatolia.
Let your imagination flow..... local seo miami. serrurier paris. serrurier nice. serrurier cannes. serrurier lyon. serrurier marseille. serrurier strasbourg. plombier paris. plombier cannes. plombier lyon. plombier marseille. plombier strasbourg. 
Among other uses, they were worn, by both men and women, wrapped around the body while at the public baths in 19th-century Syria. In Algeria, conservative women wore the fouta draped over their sarouel garment. 