Yes. Leftovers should be used within 2 days and stored in the fridge at between 0-5°C during this time. They can be reheated as long as they are heated to 70°C or higher. Food should be very hot and steaming before it is served. 
I strongly disagree on dairy. In many European countries cheeses are sold at room temperature and are absolutely fine to eat, and you can definitely keep it out of the fridge for more than two hours with no issue whatsoever. So in general, regarding perishable foods like meat, most dairy, unshelled eggs and shell eggs (in the US) , cooked casseroles, and so on: if the food (or its perishable components) have been at room temperature for more than two hours, you should discard that food.
Cooked food sitting at room temperature is in what the USDA calls the Danger Zone, which is between 40 ° F and 140 ° F. In this range of temperatures, bacteria grows rapidly and the food can become unsafe to eat, so it should only be left out no more than two hours. 
Kitchen Fact: Cooked food stored in the refrigerator should be eaten in 3 to 4 days. After food is cooked, it should sit out at room temperature no more than two hours before being refrigerated to slow down bacteria growth. But once stored in the fridge, leftovers should be eaten up within three to four days because bacteria can still grow even at refrigerator temperatures. To help you remember how long something has been in the fridge, we recommend labeling it with the date it was cooked to help you keep track!
Cooked Food: Leftover, cooked foods should be kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container and eaten within 4-5 days. Food, whether cooked or not, should not be left at room temperature for more than 4 hours otherwise the risk of food poisoning increases. You can refrigerate them for up to 5 days as long as they are stored properly — wrapped in a paper towel and then sealed inside a plastic bag. Fresh Beans/Peas: Depending on the variety, they can be kept, tightly wrapped, in the refrigerator for 3-5 days.
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. Food poisoning — also called foodborne illness — is caused by harmful organisms, such as bacteria in contaminated food.
Uncooked foods, such as cold salads or sandwiches, also should be eaten or refrigerated promptly. Your goal is to minimize the time a food is in the danger zone — between 40 and 140 F (4 and 60 C) — when bacteria can quickly multiply. When you're ready to eat leftovers, reheat them on the stove, in the oven or in the microwave until the internal temperature reaches 165 F (74 C). After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. Food poisoning — also called foodborne illness — is caused by harmful organisms, such as bacteria in contaminated food.
Storing food is a delicate matter -- in the fridge, food might get moist and moldy, and in the freezer it could lose all its moisture or get freezer burn. If you leave food in the fridge or freezer too long, it could not only lose its integrity but it may also become unsafe to eat. FoodSafety.gov has two useful charts listing how long certain foods will stay good in both the refrigerator and the freezer. 