A variety of sensors are available for measuring air temperature, including mercury-in-glass thermometers, bimetallic thermometers, pressure thermometers, thermocouples, resistance temperature detectors, thermistors and monolithic (ICTT) temperature sensors. THERMOMETER(Temperature Sensing and Measuring Devices)A device that senses temperature changes of a body or space. It consists essentially of some confined substance, such as mercury, the volume (or other measurable physical property) of which changes with a change in temperature.
A common mistake is to measure air temperature at some location other than in the immediate vicinity of the animals. For example, measuring air temperature at four foot from the floor when the animals are only one foot in height, can sometimes result in errors of several degrees Celsius.B. THERMOMETER(Temperature Sensing and Measuring Devices)A device that senses temperature changes of a body or space. It consists essentially of some confined substance, such as mercury, the volume (or other measurable physical property) of which changes with a change in temperature.
Air temperature is relatively easy to measure. However, the investigator must be aware that air temperature is subject to considerable variation through space and time. THERMOMETER(Temperature Sensing and Measuring Devices)A device that senses temperature changes of a body or space. It consists essentially of some confined substance, such as mercury, the volume (or other measurable physical property) of which changes with a change in temperature.
The temperature of the air is a measure of how quickly the molecules are moving. The more energy of motion the molecules have, the higher the temperature you feel in the air. Air temperature is measured with thermometers. Common thermometers consist of a glass rod with a very thin tube in it. The tube contains a liquid that is supplied from a reservoir, or bulb, at the base of the thermometer. Sometimes the liquid is mercury, and sometimes it is red-colored alcohol. The tube is marked with a scale, in degrees Fahrenheit or in degrees Celsius. When you are measuring the air temperature, be sure to have the thermometer in the shade. If the sun shines on the thermometer, it heats the liquid. Then the reading is higher than the true air temperature.
They include the thermal expansion of solids or liquids with temperature, or the change in pressure of a gas on heating or cooling. Radiation-type thermometers measure the infrared energy emitted by an object, allowing measurement of temperature without contact. Thermometers are widely used in industry to control and regulate processes, in the study of weather, in medicine, and scientific research. The precision or resolution of a thermometer is simply to what fraction of a degree it is possible to make a reading. For high temperature work it may only be possible to measure to the nearest 10 °C or more. Clinical thermometers and many electronic thermometers are usually readable to 0.1 °C.
Description. A demonstration of how to measure the air temperature using a thermometer. There are temperature differences between day and night, and the temperature varies between shade and full sunshine. We can describe the temperature as being hot, mild, chilly or freezing. 
The temperature at which condensation sets in is called the dew point. The dew point, and other measures of humidity can be calculated from readings taken by a hygrometer. A hygrometer has two thermometers, one dry bulb or standard air temperature thermometer, and one wet bulb thermometer.
A. Use a Thermometer to measure Temperature Overview Temperature is measured with a thermometer usually made of a glass tube with colored alcohol. As the air gets hotter, the level of the liquid rises and, as the air gets cooler, the level falls. The temperature of the air is always changing. Use a Thermometer to measure Temperature Materials Purchased thermometer (unfortunately the thermometer you just made will NOT be able to provide accurate measurements) Procedure Go outside and wait two minutes before you take a reading. This is to allow the thermometer to adjust to the outside air temperature.
A thermometer is a device that measures the temperature of things. The name is made up of two smaller words: Thermo means heat and meter means to measure. You can use a thermometer to tell the temperature outside or inside your house, inside your oven, even the temperature of your body if you're sick. 