Yellow Gold used in jewelry making is a gold alloy that consists of combining gold, copper and silver. Yellow gold purity is also measured in karats. Yellow gold is the only type of gold that can be used in jewelry making as 24-karats. Rose gold is a very popular alloy comprised of traditional yellow gold and copper, which lends a beautiful pinkish colortone to the metal. Rose gold is also be known as “red gold” or “pink gold.”. Because rose gold is a man-made alloy, “pure” rose gold does not exist.
Yellow Gold. The alloys that are most commonly added to create 22kt yellow gold are silver (5%), copper (2%) and zinc (1.33%). This unique mixture of pure gold, silver and copper gives yellow gold it’s distinct color. 18kt yellow gold will have a different percentage combination of the added alloys. Rose gold is a mix of pure gold and copper alloy and it is commonly used for specialized jewelry. Rose gold, also known as pink gold and red gold, was popular in Russia at the beginning of the nineteenth century, and was also known as Russian gold although this term is now obsolete.
Since copper has a bold pinkish-orange color, adding this alloy to gold gives the gold a beautiful pinkish gold color. 18K rose gold, 18K red gold, and 18K pink gold contain 75% gold. 14K rose gold, 14K red gold, and 14K pink gold contain 58% gold. The remaining percentage is made up of copper or copper and silver. 18K white gold is 75% gold, and 14K white gold is 58.3% gold, so jewelry made from these metals have a slight yellow color. To enhance the whiteness, almost all white gold is plated with rhodium – a shiny, white metal which is extremely hard.
Nickel white gold does need to be rhodium plated as part of its upkeep. See the blog about rhodium plating. White gold (and yellow gold) is measured in karats. There are 24 karats in 100% pure gold. This is too soft for jewelry making. There is about 58% pure gold by weight in 14kt gold. The balance of metal is the alloy mix chosen to be combined with the pure gold. Rose gold is a very popular alloy comprised of traditional yellow gold and copper, which lends a beautiful pinkish colortone to the metal. Rose gold is also be known as “red gold” or “pink gold.”. Because rose gold is a man-made alloy, “pure” rose gold does not exist.
White gold is an alloy of gold and at least one white metal, usually nickel, manganese or palladium. Like yellow gold, the purity of white gold is given in karats. White gold's properties vary depending on the metals and proportions used. Copper, iron and titanium can be also used for such effect. Gold-cobalt-chromium alloy (75% gold, 15% cobalt, 10% chromium) yields a surface oxide that's olive-tinted because of the chromium(III) oxide content, is about five times thinner than Au-Co and has significantly better wear resistance.
The most popular gold alloy color other than yellow, is of course 'white gold'. There are actually a few different forms of white gold alloy available. The most common white gold alloy is 18K 'nickel' white gold, which is yellow gold alloyed with copper, nickel, zinc and/or palladium (and then rhodium plated). White gold is often alloyed with chromium and iron-this gold alloy is a great option for those who are allergic to nickel. 18K 'palladium' white gold may also be a good option for those with a bigger budget. 18K 'palladium' white gold consists of only gold and palladium.
By far, the most popular gold alloy is '18K' gold. The karat, which is abbreviated to 'K' or 'kt' is the unit of measurement used in reference to the purity of a gold alloy. 18K gold alloys are always stamped '18K' in the USA, or '750' in Europe to indicate their purity (75% pure gold). White gold is often alloyed with chromium and iron-this gold alloy is a great option for those who are allergic to nickel. 18K 'palladium' white gold may also be a good option for those with a bigger budget. 18K 'palladium' white gold consists of only gold and palladium.
The yellow gold used in jewelry is made in the same way, and the difference is only in the mixture of the additional metals used. For example, white gold has more zinc, whereas yellow gold usually contains more nickel. Regardless of what metals are added to the gold alloy, its purity is measured in the same way. For example, if a gold ring is 18 karats, this means that out of a maximum of 24 parts, 18 parts are pure gold and the rest is something else.
18K gold is 75% pure gold alloyed with various other elements. Yellow gold is alloyed with copper, silver, zinc and/or cobalt. 18K yellow gold findings are prized for value, resiliency and durability. 18K yellow gold jewelry should not tarnish, or be affected by heat, moisture or oxygen, unlike many other alloys. White gold is often alloyed with chromium and iron-this gold alloy is a great option for those who are allergic to nickel. 18K 'palladium' white gold may also be a good option for those with a bigger budget. 18K 'palladium' white gold consists of only gold and palladium.
White gold is an alloy of yellow gold and at least one white metal, usually nickel or palladium. 18K white gold is 75% gold, and 14K white gold is 58.3% gold, so jewelry made from these metals have a slight yellow color. To enhance the whiteness, almost all white gold is plated with rhodium – a shiny, white metal which is extremely hard.