Neptune, like the other gas giant planets, is made of very cold gases of hydrogen, helium, and methane. It has wispy white clouds, which we think are made of methane crystals. (On Earth, the wispy white cirrus clouds are made of ice crystals.) It is almost as cold as Pluto: 330° Fahrenheit. 
The Fountain of Neptune is a fountain in Florence, Italy, situated on the Piazza della Signoria (Signoria square), in front of the Palazzo Vecchio. The statue of Neptune is a copy made in the nineteenth century, while the original is in the National Museum. However, when the work was finished, it was not appreciated in particular by the Florentines, who called it Il Biancone (the white giant). Work continued on this fountain during the next ten years.
Neptune has moons. It also has rings, but its rings are different from Saturn's. Neptune's largest moon is named Triton. Triton is much larger than any of the planet's other moons. Triton is a very cold place, so the moon is covered with ice. Even though Triton is cold there is a lot going on there. It has geysers like the ones at Yellowstone Park on Earth.
Neptune consists primarily of 80% hydrogen and 19% helium. In smaller amounts, it also consists of water, methane, ammonia, and other compounds that can form ice in our solar system's temperatures. Neptune is classified as an ice giant planet, mainly made of the ice-forming molecules water, ammonia, and methane as a liquid mixture above what is thought to be a rocky core. Neptune is made up of hydrogen, helium, water, and minerals known as silicates. There is no water on Neptune. As a matter of fact, as a gas giant, it is impossible for Neptu … ne to hold water.
The atmosphere of Neptune is similar to all the large planets in the Solar System; it mostly consists of hydrogen and helium, with trace amounts of methane, water, ammonia and … other ices. But unlike the other gas planets in the Solar System, Neptune's atmosphere has a larger proportion of the ices. Neptune is made up of hydrogen, helium, water, and minerals known as silicates. There is no water on Neptune. As a matter of fact, as a gas giant, it is impossible for Neptu … ne to hold water.
At deep enough depths, the methane may transform into diamond crystals. Like Earth, Neptune has a rocky core made up of iron and other metals, with a mass just greater than our planet. Temperatures in the core could reach 9,260 F (5,127 C). Strange rings. Like the other gas giants, Neptune boasts a series of rings. But the blue planet's six rings are not as solid as its neighbors. 
The outermost layer of the 8th planet is its atmosphere, which comprises around 5-10% of the entire planet’s total mass. Its atmosphere extends up to 20% to its core and is made up of about 19% helium, 80% hydrogen as well as trace amounts of various ices that includes, ammonia, methane and water ice. Beneath the planet’s atmosphere lies its significantly large mantle. In Neptune’s very center is its core. This is made up of iron, nickel as well as various other silicates that make up around 1.2 times the mass of our own planet.
Composition: The overall composition of Neptune is, by mass, thought to be about 25 percent rock, 60 to 70 percent ice, and 5 to 15 percent hydrogen and helium, according to Tristan Guillot, author of Interiors of Giant Planets Inside and Outside the Solar System in the journal Science. 
At the very center of Neptune is the planet’s core. The core of Neptune is made of iron, nickel and other silicates that make up about 1.2 times the mass of the Earth. We have written many stories about Neptune on Universe Today. Here’s an article about how there could be oceans inside Neptune. Neptune, like the rest of the gas giant planets in the Solar System, can be broken up into various layers. The composition of Neptune changes depending on which of these layers you’re looking at. Let’s see what Neptune is made of. Composition of Neptune. Image credit: NASA. The outermost layer of Neptune is the atmosphere, forming about 5-10% of the planet’s mass, and extending up to 20% of the way down to its cor