A person with prediabetes has a fasting blood glucose level between 100 and 125 mg/dl. If the blood glucose level rises to 126 mg/dl or above, a person has diabetes.&quot; and &quot;•An A1C 5.6% or below is normal. In prediabetes, A1C levels range between 5.7%-6.4%. The American Diabetes Association recommends a fasting plasma glucose level of 90-130 mg/dL (5.0-7.2 mmol/L) and after meals less than 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L). If your doctor feels that you are pre-diabetic it would be okay to check a fasting blood sugar at home once a week or so.
The normal blood glucose level (tested while fasting) for non-diabetics, should be between 3.9 and 5.5 mmol/L (70 to 100 mg/dL). The mean normal blood glucose level in humans is about 5.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL); however, this level fluctuates throughout the day. Glucose levels are usually lowest in the morning, before the first meal of the day (termed the fasting level), and rise after meals for an hour or two by a few millimolar. Blood sugar levels outside the normal range may be an indicator of a medical condition.
Normal blood sugar varies from person to person, but a normal range for fasting blood sugar (the amount of glucose in your blood six to eight hours after a meal) is between 70 and 100 milligrams per deciliter. For most individuals, the level of glucose in the blood rises after meals. A normal blood-sugar range after eating is between 135 and 140 milligrams per deciliter. These variations in blood-sugar levels, both before and after meals, are normal and reflect the way that glucose is absorbed and stored in the body.
At present, the diagnosis of diabetes or prediabetes is based in an arbitrary cut-off point for a normal blood sugar level. A normal sugar level is currently considered to be less than 100 mg/dL when fasting and less than 140 mg/dL two hours after eating. But in most healthy people, sugar levels are even lower. During the day, blood glucose levels tend to be at their lowest just before meals. For most people without diabetes, blood sugar levels before meals hover around 70 to 80 mg/dL. In some, 60 is normal; in others, 90. 
Adults. A normal blood sugar level is between 72 mg/dL and 108 mg/dL (4 to 6 mmol/L) for a healthy person. The concentration of glucose in the blood of a healthy person in the morning on an empty stomach is between 68 mg/dL and 108 mg/dL (3.8 and 6.0 mmol/L). Blood sugar level (or blood sugar concentration) is the amount of glucose (a source of energy) present in your blood at any given time. A normal blood glucose level for a healthy person is somewhere between 72 mg/dL (3.8 to 4 mmol/L) and 108 mg/dL (5.8 to 6 mmol/L).
Glucose Levels Normal Range. The amount of glucose or sugar present in the blood is what determines the glucose levels normal range. Glucose is the body's source of instant energy. The normal blood sugar levels is a range that helps to determine whether the insulin levels in the body are normal or not. The American Diabetes Association recommends a post meal glucose level of less than 180 mg/dl. Below Glucose Levels Normal Range. When the glucose levels are very low, that is, below 80 mg/ dl, then it is known as hypoglycemia.
Answer: Now, in a normal individual we measure blood sugar under different circumstances. What we call fasting blood sugar or blood glucose levels is usually done six to eight hours after the last meal. So it's most commonly done before breakfast in the morning; and the normal range there is 70 to 100 milligrams per deciliter. 
The normal range of blood sugar levels means that you the level of sugar /glucose in your bloodstream is not too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). There are two major specific conditions that can affect and make your blood-glucose level raise & maybe reach its peak level. In normal non-diabetic individuals, the range of their blood glucose levels before eating (between meals) is commonly about 70 mg /dL to 80 mg /dL. Depending on the fit status of each individual, sometime the range of 60-90 mg /dL before meals is still considered normal. 1 2 Next. Tweet Pin It.
A normal fasting blood glucose target range for an individual without diabetes is 70-100 mg/dL (3.9-5.6 mmol/L). The American Diabetes Association recommends a fasting plasma glucose level of 70–130 mg/dL (3.9-7.2 mmol/L) and after meals less than 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L). The American Diabetes Association recommends a fasting plasma glucose level of 90-130 mg/dL (5.0-7.2 mmol/L) and after meals less than 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L). If your doctor feels that you are pre-diabetic it would be okay to check a fasting blood sugar at home once a week or so.
Typically, the lowest levels of blood sugar occur at the times just before you get your meals of breakfast, lunch, and dinner. In normal non-diabetic individuals, the range of their blood glucose levels before eating (between meals) is commonly about 70 mg /dL to 80 mg /dL. Depending on the fit status of each individual, sometime the range of 60-90 mg /dL before meals is still considered normal. 1 2 Next. Tweet Pin It.