In-text citation capitalization, quotes, and italics/underlining. 1  Always capitalize proper nouns, including author names and initials: D. Jones. 2  If you refer to the title of a source within your paper, capitalize all words that are four letters long or greater within the title of a source: Permanence and Change. If the author is not named in a signal phrase, place the author's last name, the year of publication, and the page number in parentheses after the quotation. She stated, Students often had difficulty using APA style (Jones, 1998, p. 199), but she did not offer an explanation as to why.
Add a new citation and source to a document. When you add a new citation to a document, you also create a new source that will appear in the bibliography. On the References tab, in the Citations & Bibliography group, click the arrow next to Style. Click the style that you want to use for the citation and source. Click at the end of the sentence or phrase that you want to cite. On the References tab, in the Citations & Bibliography group, click Insert Citation. Do one of the following: To add the source information, click Add New Source. To add a placeholder, so that you can create a citation and fill in the source information later, click Add new placeholder
In-text citations for Internet sources in an APA-style paper are virtually identical to standard citations. If the standard information regarding the paper's author and publication date are available, then this information is all that is necessary for a parenthetical citation. You also have the option of introducing the author's name as part of your text and using the parenthetical citation for just the publication year, like this: According to John Smith (2012), Internet citations are easy.. You may not always have access to publication dates or even to the author's name.
In APA style, source material is cited using a system that emphasizes the author and date of publication in its in-text citations. These in-text citations—used when source material is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized—point to full bibliographic citations located in the reference page at the end of the document. Use of Authors' Names. In APA style, only the author's last name is used in the document as a whole and within in-text citations in particular. If the author's name is mentioned in the text. Most often, an author's last name appears in the text with the date of publication immediately following in parentheses:
APA citation basics. When using APA format, follow the author-date method of in-text citation. This means that the author's last name and the year of publication for the source should appear in the text, for example, (Jones, 1998), and a complete reference should appear in the reference list at the end of the paper. If the author is not named in a signal phrase, place the author's last name, the year of publication, and the page number in parentheses after the quotation. She stated, Students often had difficulty using APA style (Jones, 1998, p. 199), but she did not offer an explanation as to why.
Instructions. Open the Word document. Click on the document where you wish to insert the new citation. Click the References tab on the command ribbon. Click the arrow in the Style text box. A list of styles includes MLA Sixth Edition and APA Fifth Edition.. Select the style for your research. 
Insert a citation. In your document, click where you want to insert the citation. On the Document Elements tab, under References, click Manage. In the Citations List, double-click the source that you want to cite. The citation appears in the document.