Most rattlesnake bites are not deadly. In fact, less than 1% of rattlesnake bites result in death. More people die from bee stings than from rattlesnake bites. However, venom is not always injected into a victim when a rattlesnake bites. Rattlesnakes are very important to man because they act as pest control. They eat many rodents that can be even more of a problem to man than the rattlesnakes. Their venom stuns the prey so it is unable to move. Because the prey cannot move, the prey is easily eaten by the rattlesnake. The venom also partially digests the food for the rattlesnake. Rattlesnakes can eat a whole range of things including lizards, rodents, squirrels, rabbits, rats, and mice.
The rattle consists of a series of loosely interlocking hollow shells, each of which was at one point the scale covering the tip of the tail. In most other snakes, the tail tip, or terminal spine, is cone-shaped, hardly any thicker than the rest of the skin, and is shed along with it at each successive molt. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Crotalus. 1  Crotalus at the Reptarium.cz Reptile Database. 2  Crotalus at Herpbreeder.com. 3  Sectioned rattle illustration at emilydamstra.com. 4  Crotalus ruber Pictures of a crotalus in Baja California, Mexico.
Thus, species that store sperm for a shorter duration mate in the spring and store sperm in the vas deferens, while those that do so for a longer duration mate in the fall and store sperm in the oviduct over the winter, after which fertilization occurs the following spring. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Crotalus. 1  Crotalus at the Reptarium.cz Reptile Database. 2  Crotalus at Herpbreeder.com. 3  Sectioned rattle illustration at emilydamstra.com. 4  Crotalus ruber Pictures of a crotalus in Baja California, Mexico.
Types of Rattlesnakes-Members of Crotalus Genus. Depending on how you classify them, there are about 29 or 30 different species of rattlesnakes in the world. Most of them fall within the Crotalus family of snakes. Of course, when you include the various sub-species found within each species, there are even more rattlesnakes to consider. We have tried to account for most of the main species of the Crotalus family below
Rattlesnakes have scales that cover most of their body. Another very common characteristic of the rattlesnake is the rattle. Rattlesnakes are born with a portion of their rattle. Rattlesnakes use their rattle to warn organisms not to roam near it. Their venom stuns the prey so it is unable to move. Because the prey cannot move, the prey is easily eaten by the rattlesnake. The venom also partially digests the food for the rattlesnake. Rattlesnakes can eat a whole range of things including lizards, rodents, squirrels, rabbits, rats, and mice.
Crotalus is a genus of venomous pit vipers found only in the Americas from southern Canada to northern Argentina. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Crotalus. 1  Crotalus at the Reptarium.cz Reptile Database. 2  Crotalus at Herpbreeder.com. 3  Sectioned rattle illustration at emilydamstra.com. 4  Crotalus ruber Pictures of a crotalus in Baja California, Mexico.
The name is derived from the Greek word krotalon, which means rattle or castanet, and refers to the rattle on the end of the tail which makes this group (genera Crotalus and Sistrurus) so distinctive. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Crotalus. 1  Crotalus at the Reptarium.cz Reptile Database. 2  Crotalus at Herpbreeder.com. 3  Sectioned rattle illustration at emilydamstra.com. 4  Crotalus ruber Pictures of a crotalus in Baja California, Mexico.
ventral. adj. 1. (Anatomy) relating to the front part of the body; towards the belly. Compare dorsal. 2. (Botany) of, relating to, or situated on the upper or inner side of a plant organ, esp a leaf, that is facing the axis. 2. ventral-nearest to or facing toward the axis of an organ or organism; the upper side of a leaf is known as the adaxial surface. adaxial. biological science, biology-the science that studies living organisms.
Relating to or situated on or close to the anterior aspect of the human body or the lower surface of the body of an animal. 2. Botany Of or on the surface of an organ or part facing toward the axis; adaxial. n. A ventral part, such as a fin or scale. [Late Latin. , from Latin. , belly .]. ven′tral·ly adv. 2. ventral-nearest to or facing toward the axis of an organ or organism; the upper side of a leaf is known as the adaxial surface. adaxial. biological science, biology-the science that studies living organisms.