Report Abuse. Bile is produced in the liver from cholesterol. It is stored in the gallbladder which is situated just below the liver. The gallbladder is connected to the cystic duct which opens in the second part of the duodenum, which is part of small intestine. The gall bladder receives the bile from liver through the common bile duct which is formed by the union of two hepatic ducts. The bile so received is concentrated to more than ten times in the gallbladder. It is released in to the small intestine in response to the stimulation by fatty food.
The pancreas and bile duct (biliary) systems together form an important part of the digestive system. The pancreas and liver produce juices (pancreatic juice and bile) which help in the process of digestion (i.e. the breakdown of foods into parts which can be absorbed easily and used by the body). 
The gallbladder is a small storage organ located inferior and posterior to the liver. Though small in size, the gallbladder plays an important role in our digestion of food. The gallbladder holds bile produced in the liver until it is needed for digesting fatty foods in the duodenum of the small intestine. Bile in the gallbladder may crystallize and form gallstones, which can become painful and potentially life threatening.... Storage. The gallbladder acts as a storage vessel for bile produced by the liver. Bile is produced by hepatocytes cells in the liver and passes through the bile ducts to the cystic duct. From the cystic duct, bile is pushed into the gallbladder by peristalsis (muscle contractions that occur in orderly waves).
The gallbladder is the sac-like structure under the liver that stores about 30-50 ml of bile. The liver produces bile, and the gallbladder stores it. From there it is excreted, travels down the bile duct, where it passes through the pancreas, which produces lipase (which does break down fat), before it goes into your small intestine. The gallbladder releases bile into the duodenum, part of the small intestine, to aid in the digestion of fats. Bile emulsifies the fats, or breaks them into smaller particles, to assist in their digestion. If the bile salts crystallize, you get gallstones.
H&E stain. Bile or gall is a dark green to yellowish brown fluid, produced by the liver of most vertebrates, that aids the digestion of lipids in the small intestine. In humans, bile is produced continuously by the liver (liver bile), and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder (gallbladder bile). 
Report Abuse. Bile, required for the digestion of food, is excreted by the liver into passages that carry bile toward the hepatic duct, which joins with the cystic duct (carrying bile to and from the gallbladder) to form the common bile duct, which opens into the intestine. Report Abuse. The hepatic ducts drain the bile from the liver to the gallbladder. The cystic duct drains bile from the gallbladder to the common duct. the common duct empties into the small intestine, specificall the duodenum at the ampula of Vater (2nd part, I believe...might be the third). Source(s): In med school.
For example, secretin is a hormone produced in the walls of the small intestine that stimulates the liver to produce bile and the pancreas to release bicarbonate, which neutralizes the acidity of the chyme. Cholecystokinin is a hormone produced in the duodenum that stimulates the gallbladder to release bile. The common bile duct is a common duct that carries bile from the liver and the gallbladder to the duodenum. If this duct is blocked, it can cause the yellowish-colored bile to back up and enter the bloodstream. This can lead to a yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes, known as jaundice.
Bile is made in the liver but stored in the gall bladder. Bile is produced in the liver from cholesterol. It is stored in the gallbladder which is situated just below the liver. The gallbladder is connected to the cystic duct which opens in the second part of the duodenum, which is part of small intestine. No, bile is a fluid that is produced in the liver, then it is released into the gallbladder. No, the liver produces bile. It aids in the digestion and  processing of food. 6 people found this useful. Edit.
Bile is a greenish-yellow fluid that aids in the digestion of fats in food. After being produced by cells in the liver, the bile travels down through the bile ducts which merge with the cystic duct from the gallbladder to form the common bile duct. The gallbladder stores extra bile until needed. 