Trapezius muscle pain is often associated with tightness and tension in the muscles of the upper back and neck. Some women will also develop tender trigger points in the upper back and between the shoulder blades.
It connects the base of the skull to the top of your shoulder blades and attaches to the spinous processes of the spine. The trapezius muscle affects and is affected by your posture. Because of its location, it can cause headaches, stiff neck pain and can be a trigger for migraine headaches.
Trapezius Muscle Location and Trigger Points. The Trapezius is a major source of headache pain, typically the type of pain experienced as a tension headache. It can also be a cause of dizziness, jaw, and toothache pain. Tightness felt in the neck and back of the skull often comes from Trigger Points in the Trapezius.
Tension or Stress. Tension and stress can cause a tightening of the trapezius muscle, causing soreness and pain. Women perceive life to be more stressful and suffer more from neck pain than men, according to a 2010 study at the University of Gothenburg.
Tweet. Trapezius pain is caused by serious strain or injury around the neck muscles. This is mainly associated with increase in stress or strenuous work. This condition feels like a burning or throbbing sensation along the neck to the shoulder and it may be felt at the base of the head.
Trapezius muscle pain or trapezius myalgia is common in women who perform repetitive tasks. It is also common in women who sit in one position with little motion of the arms such as working at a computer keyboard or sitting at a desk.
Trapezius myalgia, muscle pain in the trapezius muscle along the back of the neck, can be caused by working for long periods sitting at a desk working on a computer keyboard, according to the January 9, 2008 issue of Science Daily. They noted that women are more likely to suffer from chronic neck pain than men.
Whiplash. Traumatic injury such as whiplash can cause a sore trapezius muscle. During an accident or injury the head is snapped backwards and then forwards, straining the trapezius muscles and causing neck pain, according to the MayoClinic.com. Whiplash can be caused by auto accidents, physical abuse or contact sports.