Common bile duct. The common bile duct is a small, tube-like structure formed where the common hepatic duct and the cystic duct join. Its physiological role is to carry bile from the gallbladder and empty it into the upper part of the small intestine (the duodenum). The common bile duct is part of the biliary system. 
Bile is a liquid released by the liver. It contains cholesterol, bile salts, and waste products such as bilirubin. Bile salts help your body break down (digest) fats. Bile passes out of the liver through the bile ducts and is stored in the gallbladder. After a meal, it is released into the small intestine. 
The bile duct is long tube-like structure that connects the liver to the intestine and transports bile from the liver to the intestine. The top half of the bile duct is associated with the liver while the bottom half of the bile duct is associated the pancreas. The bile duct enters the part of the intestine called the duodenum into a structure called the Ampulla. Blockage of the bile duct causes build up of the bile in the blood since the bile can no longer go in
About the bile ducts. The bile ducts are a series of thin tubes that reach from the liver to the small intestine. The major function of the bile ducts is to move a fluid called bile from the liver and gallbladder to the small intestine, where it helps digest the fats in food. Different parts of the bile duct system have different names. The left and right hepatic ducts exit from the liver and join to form the common hepatic duct in an area called the hilum. Lower down, the gallbladder (a small organ that stores bile) joins the common hepatic duct through a small duct called the cystic duct. The combined duct is called the common bile duct.
Bile duct cancer arises from the cells that line the bile ducts, the drainage system for bile produced by the liver. Bile ducts collect this bile, draining it into the gallbladder and finally into the small intestine where it aids in the digestion process. Bile duct cancer is also called cholangiocarcinoma. 
Overview. A biliary obstruction is a blockage of the bile ducts. The bile ducts carry bile from the liver and gallbladder through the pancreas to the small intestine (the duodenum). Bile is a dark-green or yellowish-brown fluid secreted by the liver to digest fats. Much of the bile is released directly into the small intestine, but what remains is stored in the gallbladder
The bile duct is long tube-like structure that connects the liver to the intestine. The liver makes bile that is required for the digestion of food. The bile from the liver is transported to the intestine by the bile duct. The top half of the bile duct is associated with the liver while the bottom half of the bile duct is associated the pancreas through which it passes on its way to the intestine. It opens in the part of the intestine called the duodenum into a structure called the Ampulla
The bile duct is a tube that transports bile from the liver to the small intestine. The gallbladder is attached to the bile duct by a small tube called the cystic duct. Bile is collected in the gallbladder between meals and empties into the bile duct through the cystic duct during a meal. The liver makes bile that is required for the digestion of food. The bile from the liver is transported to the intestine by the bile duct. The top half of the bile duct is associated with the liver while the bottom half of the bile duct is associated the pancreas through which it passes on its way to the
Bile duct cancer of the upper part of the bile duct is also called Klatskin's tumor. Klatskin's tumors involve the upper part of the bile duct as divides to enter the right and the left parts of the liver. The bile ducts in the liver are called right and left hepatic ducts. The bile duct enters the part of the intestine called the duodenum into a structure called the Ampulla. Blockage of the bile duct causes build up of the bile in the blood since the bile can no longer go into the intestine.