Full Definition of SWEETMEAT. : a food rich in sugar: as a: a candied or crystallized fruit b: candy, confection. See sweetmeat defined for English-language learners. Definition of SWEETMEAT for Kids. : a food (as a piece of candy or candied fruit) rich in sugar.
Confectionery is the art of making confections, which are food items that are rich in sugar and carbohydrates. Exact definitions are difficult. In general, though, confectionery is divided into two broad and somewhat overlapping categories, bakers' confections and sugar confections. Brittles are a combination of nuts and caramelized sugar. Chocolate is a common and popular confectionery and can be used in a wide variety of ways. Sugar confectionery items include sweets, lollipops, candy bars, chocolate, cotton candy, and other sweet items of snack food.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. any sweet food or delicacy prepared with sugar or honey, as a cake, confection, preserve, etc.; specif., a candy, candied fruit, etc. Late Middle English sweit meit; from Old English swetmete: see sweet and amp; meat. Origin of sweetmeat. any sweet food or delicacy prepared with sugar or honey, as a cake, confection, preserve, etc.; specif., a candy, candied fruit, etc.
Sugar confectionery includes sweets, candied nuts, chocolates, chewing gum, sweetmeats, pastillage, and other confections that are made primarily of sugar. In some cases, chocolate confections (confections made of chocolate) are treated as a separate category, as are sugar-free versions of sugar confections. Brittles are a combination of nuts and caramelized sugar. Chocolate is a common and popular confectionery and can be used in a wide variety of ways. Sugar confectionery items include sweets, lollipops, candy bars, chocolate, cotton candy, and other sweet items of snack food.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The term sweetmeats usually refers to candy or sweet confections, and it is often shortened simply to sweets.. They likely first began as a way of preserving fruit and/or nuts with sugar. Post 4. @pocurana-It's quite possible that the word meat is used to describe these sweet candies in relation to the core of the candy rather than the meat (as in dead animal meant to for consumption) we think of most often today. The inside of nuts and fruits is sometimes referred to as the meat of that food.
sweetmeat. n. 1. (Cookery) a sweetened delicacy, such as a preserve, sweet, or, formerly, a cake or pastry. (ˈswitˌmit). n. 
Sweetmeat actually doesn't come from an animal. The term 'sweetmeat' refers to a way of preserving nuts/fruits with sugar. What you are thinking of is 'sweetbreads'. Sweetbrea … ds are taken from the thymus gland, pancreas or genitalia of young animals, most often calves, pigs or lambs. They are roundish in shape and are a favorite ingredient in many European dishes. Varakh, the shiny foil that is used to garnish sweetmeat, is  sometimes made of real silver or real gold. These metals are made  by pounding the metal into very thin sheets … that are very brittle.
Sweetbreads on mushroom (morel) risotto. Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus (also called throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) or the pancreas (also called heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau), and, less commonly, of beef and pork. The word sweetbread is first attested in the 16th century, but the etymology of the name is unclear.  Sweet  is perhaps used since the thymus is sweet and rich-tasting, as opposed to savory-tasting muscle flesh. Bread may come from brede, roasted meat or from the Old English brǣd (flesh or meat).