Tiotropium can be helpful in relieving symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) . In this condition, the airflow to the lungs is restricted and this causes symptoms such as cough, wheeze, and breathlessness. 1 There are two types of tiotropium inhaler device-one which uses a cartridge containing a liquid and one which uses capsules containing powder. 2  If you are not sure how to use the device you have been given, please ask your nurse, doctor or pharmacist to show you what to do. 3  Use your inhaler device once each day.
Tiotropium inhalation is used to prevent bronchospasm (narrowing of the airways in the lungs) in people with bronchitis, emphysema, or COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). Tiotropium inhalation may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. A tiotropium capsule is for use only in the HandiHaler device. Do not take the capsule by mouth. Use only one capsule at a time. Before using this medication, tell your doctor if you have narrow-angle glaucoma, or an enlarged prostate or bladder obstruction. Tiotropium inhalation is used to prevent bronchospasm attacks
Article date: November 2010. Tiotropium is a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist that is licensed as a prescription-only medicine for maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Tiotropium bromide (INN) is a long-acting, 24-hour, anticholinergic bronchodilator used in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Tiotropium bromide capsules for inhalation are co-promoted by Boehringer-Ingelheim and Pfizer under the trade name Spiriva. 
Uses of This Medicine. Tiotropium is used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is a lung disease that also includes chronic bronchitis (swelling of the tubes leading to the lungs) and emphysema (damage to the air sacs in the lungs). When you use the inhaler for the first time, you will need to prime it to make sure it delivers the correct amount of medicine. To prime the inhaler, point it away from your face and press the dose release button until you see a spray of medicine. Then press the button 3 more times. The inhaler is now ready to use.
8 Reviews. Spiriva is the brand name of the prescription drug tiotropium, which is used to treat people with certain lung conditions. Doctors prescribe Spiriva for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), chronic bronchitis, and emphysema
A: Spiriva (tiotropium) is a bronchodilator that helps prevent bronchospasm or narrowing of the airways. It is primarily used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Spiriva works by preventing bronchospasm attacks. Spiriva is the brand name of the prescription drug tiotropium, which is used to treat people with certain lung conditions. Doctors prescribe Spiriva for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), chronic bronchitis, and emphysema
TIOTROPIUM-INHALATION. TIOTROPIUM POWDER IN CAPSULE-INHALATION. The medication you searched for has more than one listing. Multiple listings, which are compiled by generic name indicate a drug is available in more than one dose or in different forms, such as tablets, liquid or injection.