The Eiffel Tower is an iron lattice tower located in Paris, France, and is one of the most well known landmarks in the world. The tower was completed in 1889. It serves as a … tourist attraction, a venue for observations of the city of Paris, and as a location for TV and radio broadcast antennae. The architect, Gustave Eiffel, had a permit for the tower to stand for 20 years; it was to be dismantled i … n 1909, when the City of Paris would take over ownership.
Once the tallest structure in the world, the Eiffel Tower is probably Europe's best known landmark and Paris's most famous symbol. You couldn't possibly visit Paris without seeing the Eiffel Tower. Even if you do not want to visit this world famous structure, you will see its top from all over Paris. 
Named after its designer, engineer Gustave Eiffel, the Eiffel Tower is the tallest building in Paris. The structure was built between 1887 and 1889 as the entrance arch for t … he Exposition Universelle, a World's Fair marking the centennial celebration of the French Revolution. The architect, Gustave Eiffel, had a permit for the tower to stand for 20 years; it was to be dismantled i … n 1909, when the City of Paris would take over ownership.
The tower was built as the entrance arch to the 1889 World's Fair. The architect, Gustave Eiffel, had a permit for the tower to stand for 20 years; it was to be dismantled i … n 1909, when the City of Paris would take over ownership.
• EIFFEL TOWER (noun). The noun EIFFEL TOWER has 1 sense: 1. a wrought iron tower 300 meters high that was constructed in Paris in 1889; for many years it was the tallest man-made structure. Familiarity information: EIFFEL TOWER used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. 
Named for its designer, engineer Gustave Eiffel, the tower was built as the entrance arch to the 1889 World's Fair. The tower stands 324 metres (1,063 ft) tall, about the same height as an 81-storey building. Named after its designer, engineer Gustave Eiffel, the Eiffel Tower is the tallest building in Paris. The structure was built between 1887 and 1889 as the entrance arch for t … he Exposition Universelle, a World's Fair marking the centennial celebration of the French Revolution.
The Eiffel Tower is the most recognizable landmark in Paris and is known worldwide as a symbol of France. 1  Background. 2  Events. 3  Reproductions and imitations. 
The tower was built as the entrance arch to the 1889 World's Fair. The architect, Gustave Eiffel, had a permit for the tower to stand for 20 years; it was to be dismantled i … n 1909, when the City of Paris would take over ownership. Named after its designer, engineer Gustave Eiffel, the Eiffel Tower is the tallest building in Paris. The structure was built between 1887 and 1889 as the entrance arch for t … he Exposition Universelle, a World's Fair marking the centennial celebration of the French Revolution.
To outsiders, the Eiffel Tower means Paris. Shields' idea of place-myths can be applied here, because the Eiffel Tower image alone can conjure up an entire site, region and structure of experience by representing only a fragment (Crouch and Lubbren 5). There is much more to Paris than this single monument.