Cacao nibs are simply chocolate in its purest form, before anything else is added. They are dried and fermented bits of cacao beans. The texture of our raw organic cacao nibs is similar to that of roasted coffee beans. They have a deep chocolate flavor which can be described as slightly bitter and nutty. 1) Nutritional Powerhouse: Chocolate lovers, rejoice! Raw organic cacao nibs are an excellent source of fiber and iron. A single one-ounce serving of cacao nibs provides 18% of the DV for fiber and 21% of the DV for iron.
Crushed cocoa nibs have the consistency of macadamia nuts, and can be used in place of nuts for some sweet dishes, such as topping muffins or as a peanut substitute in brittle. Because they are not naturally sweet, nibs also can be used in savory dishes, such as in salads or for encrusting meats like duck or scallops. lzf/iStock/Getty Images. Chocolate has its origins as a cocoa nib-infused drink used in Mesoamerican rituals as early as 1750 B.C. By the time Europeans discovered the region in 16th century, the cocoa seed was a fixture in the culture’s spirituality, nutrition and financial trade as cocoa nibs were used as currency.
Cacao nibs are the essence of chocolate: perfectly roasted cocoa beans separated from their husks and broken into small bits. Nibs add crunchiness and subtle chocolate flavor. They make a great substitute for roasted nuts or chocolate chips, without added sweetness. A unique gift for the home baker! 1  Certified kosher. 
The cocoa bean, also cacao bean or simply cocoa (/ˈkoʊ.koʊ/) or cacao (/kəˈkaʊ/), is the dried and fully fermented fatty seed of Theobroma cacao, from which cocoa solids and cocoa butter are extracted. They are the basis of chocolate, as well as many Mesoamerican foods such as mole sauce and tejate. 
1 Cocoa nibs are a good source of iron! 2  Iron is one of the most important minerals because it serves as an essential part of hemoglobin. 3  Hemoglobin is important in the body because it helps transport the oxygen in your blood to enzymes and body cells. 1 Cocoa nibs also have ~1/4 of the amount of caffeine you might find in a cup of coffee, so they can provide a little energy boost when eaten as part of a snack like trail mix. 2  They also are a good source of copper, which is also important in making hemoglobin and carrying oxygen in red blood cells.
The cacao tree produces seeds that can be dried, dehulled, roasted and minimally processed into what is essentially raw chocolate, also called raw cacao nibs. The nibs can be used to produce different grades of commercial chocolate, and they are often used as snacks. Many of the health benefits, including cardiovascular benefits, of cacao products such as cacao nibs are believed to be due to compounds called polyphenols. The cacao polyphenols are made of 37 percent catechins, 4 percent anthocyanins and 58 percent proanthocyanidins.
Dark cocoa nibs or cacao nibs is a closer form of chocolate to the cacao/cocoa bean source. The beans from the cacao/cocoa pods are roasted and then parted from their protective husks and broken down into small pieces. 1 Cocoa nibs also have ~1/4 of the amount of caffeine you might find in a cup of coffee, so they can provide a little energy boost when eaten as part of a snack like trail mix. 2  They also are a good source of copper, which is also important in making hemoglobin and carrying oxygen in red blood cells.
Peeled and crumbled from whole cacao beans, Navitas Naturals Cacao Nibs are “nature's chocolate chips.. Crunchy cacao nibs provide pure chocolate flavor and they’re a rich source of antioxidants, vitamins, minerals and fiber. Cacao nibs are a tasty snack right out of the bag, or add them to cookies, trail mix, smoothies and ice cream. 1  Cart Details. Nature’s Chocolate Chips. Cacao nibs are made from pure cacao beans that come straight out of the tropical cacao fruit. Cacao was a culinary treasure to Mesoamericans for thousands of years and touted as the Food of the Gods for its superior nutritional profile and exceptional flavor.
Made from crushed cacao beans, these raw nibs are the original unsweetened chocolate chip. Our raw cacao nibs are crunchy, flavorful, and packed with powerful nutrients, antioxidants, and natural mood lifters. 1) Nutritional Powerhouse: Chocolate lovers, rejoice! Raw organic cacao nibs are an excellent source of fiber and iron. A single one-ounce serving of cacao nibs provides 18% of the DV for fiber and 21% of the DV for iron.