The Gobi is Asia's largest desert. It stretches nearly 1,000 miles east and west and nearly 5,000 miles north and south across large parts of Mongolia and China. In total, it covers 500,000 square miles. Less than 8 inches of rain fall in the entire desert every year. The Gobi is very dry, but it is also very cold.
1 The Gobi Desert is the largest desert region located in Asia, spanning the north / northwestern part of China and the south of Mongolia. 2  The desert is surrounded by the Altai Mountains and the grasslands of Mongolia. 3  It is the fifth largest desert in the world. Here are some facts about the Gobi Desert. 1  The Gobi Desert is the largest desert region located in Asia, spanning the north / northwestern part of China and the south of Mongolia. 2  The desert is surrounded by the Altai Mountains and the grasslands of Mongolia. 3  It is the fifth largest desert in the world. 4  The temperatures in the Gobi Desert ...
The desert, according to Wild World -- an important source on the Gobi Desert -- encompasses five broad, and diverse, ecoregions: Eastern Gobi Desert Steppe -- The easternmost of the five ecoregions, the steppe (a plain with few to no trees) covers more than 100,000 square miles at an elevation of 3300 to 5000 feet. Across its span, the Gobi -- a sprawling patchwork of a desert basins and mountain ranges -- features primarily a firm and often rocky terrain marked by gravels and sparse vegetation. It has relatively few sand dunes, with those having been formed through time under the forces of persistent windstorms or heavy erosion.
The map showing the major cities and the neighbouring countries of Mongolia. The southern portion of Mongolia is taken up by the Gobi Desert, while the northern and western portions are mountainous. Mongolia is a landlocked country in Central Asia and East Asia, located between China and Russia. The terrain is one of mountains and rolling plateaus, with a high degree of relief. The total land area of Mongolia is 1,564,116 square kilometres. 
THE 650,000-square-mi (1,600,000-square-km) Gobi is the largest desert in China and Mongolia; both the Taklamakan Desert (in Xinjiang) and the Changtang Desert (in Tibet and Qinghai) are only half the size. In China, the Gobi Desert extends from Manchuria to Gansu and Xinjiang. It consists of several plateaus: Hulun Buir, Xilin Gol, and Ulanqab in the east and the Alashan plateau in the west of Inner Mongolia. The Yinshan Mountains and the Hexi corridor form the southern edge of the Gobi Desert.
Tian Shan Range -- The westernmost of the Gobi Desert's ecoregions, the Tian Shan Range covers some 49,800 square miles. It consists of an extensive and isolated mountain range and high ridges interlaced with desert basins. Across its span, the Gobi -- a sprawling patchwork of a desert basins and mountain ranges -- features primarily a firm and often rocky terrain marked by gravels and sparse vegetation. It has relatively few sand dunes, with those having been formed through time under the forces of persistent windstorms or heavy erosion.
In Mongolia, the Gobi occupies all the southern districts (aimak) of the country: eastern Gobi, central Gobi, southern Gobi, Baian Khongor, and Gobi Altai. In China, the Gobi Desert extends from Manchuria to Gansu and Xinjiang. It consists of several plateaus: Hulun Buir, Xilin Gol, and Ulanqab in the east and the Alashan plateau in the west of Inner Mongolia. The Yinshan Mountains and the Hexi corridor form the southern edge of the Gobi Desert.
1 Eastern Gobi desert steppe, the easternmost of the Gobi ecoregions, covering an area of 281,800 km 2 (108,804 sq mi). 2  It extends from the Inner Mongolian Plateau in China northward into Mongolia. 3  It includes the Yin Mountains and many low-lying areas with salt pans and small ponds. The Chinese also call it a desert, but the Mongols call it a 'gobi'—that is, a land of thin herbage, more suitable for camels than for cows, but capable also, if herds are kept small and moved frequently, of sustaining horses, sheep, and goats.
The center of the Arabian Desert is one of the largest single continuous areas of sand in the world called the Rub'al-Khali. It is one of the most oil-rich places in the world. Gobi Desert. The Gobi desert is located in Northern China and Mongolia. The Gobi is known in history as part of the great Mongol Empire as well as home to some important cities along the Silk Road. The Gobi is a cold desert and is located on a high plateau making much of the desert's elevation over 3,000 feet above sea level. Some of the world's largest deserts are cold deserts located at one of the Earths poles or in a cold area of the world. One thing is for sure, deserts are dry and barren places. Go here for more information on the desert habitat.