The Stamp Act. When Parliament passed the Stamp Act in March 1765, things changed. It was the first direct tax on the American colonies. Every legal document had to be written on specially stamped paper, showing proof of payment. All pieces of paper fell under the Stamp Act of 1765. Legal documents, newspapers, and playing cards were also levied with the tax. Britain had several stamps to mark these documents as official. The British point of view is not difficult to grasp.
The Stamp Act of 1765 required the colonists to pay a tax on every  printed sheet or piece of paper they used. The money would be used  to pay for any defense of the America … n colonies within the  territory of the Appalachian Mountains. The Stamp Act required colonists to pay for tax stamps on newspaper, and various legal documents. Parliament abolished the act in 1766. The Stamp Act placed tax on ALL printed material
But the colonists had no representation in the British Parliament. To tax them without offering representation was to deny their traditional rights as English subjects. This could not stand. The Stamp Act of 1765 was not the first attempt to tax the American colonies. Parliament had passed the Sugar Act and Currency Act the previous year. Because tax was collected at ports though, it was easily circumvented. Indirect taxes such as these were also much less visible to the consumer. All pieces of paper fell under the Stamp Act of 1765. Legal documents, newspapers, and playing cards were also levied with the tax. Britain had several stamps to mark these documents as official. The British point of view is not difficult to grasp.
Answer   The Stamp Act of 1765 was the fourth Stamp Act to be passed by the Parliament of Great Britain and required all legal documents, permits, commercial contracts, n … ewspapers, wills, pamphlets, and playing cards in the American colonies to carry a tax stamp. The Stamp Act was an act passed by the British Parliament in a bid to tax the American colonies. It was a tax on all legal and commercial documents (ex. marriage licenses, wills, etc.) and were not binding unless the tax had been paid and the paper had received an official governmental
The most significant outcome of the resistance to the Stamp Act was that it allowed the colonist to get organized in opposition groups. Merchants implemented a non importation agreement boycotting all British goods. Pamphlet made by an opposition group. One of the most ardent opponents to the Stamp Act was Samuel Adams who had gained an important political ally in James Otis, a young prominent and influential lawyer of Massachusetts. The protest on the streets of Boston started as soon as they heard word of the new tax.
Noun. 1. Stamp Act-an act passed by the British Parliament in 1756 that raised revenue from the American Colonies by a duty in the form of a stamp required on all newspapers and legal or commercial documents; opposition by the Colonies resulted in the repeal of the act in 1766. Stamp′ Act`. an act of the British Parliament (1765) for raising revenue in the American colonies by requiring that documents, newspapers, etc., bear an official stamp.
Confidence votes 50. The Stamp Act was an act passed by the British Parliament in a bid to tax the American colonies. It was a tax on all legal and commercial documents (ex. marriage licenses, wills, etc.) and were not binding unless the tax had been paid and the paper had received an official governmental stamp