Chicken Shawarma. Shawarma is a Middle Eastern dish of garlicky meat or poultry served on pitas. From start to finish, you can have this on the table in 45 minutes. Save any leftover yogurt-lemon sauce as a great dip for pita bread or cucumber. 
: a sandwich especially of sliced lamb or chicken, vegetables, and often tahini wrapped in pita bread. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Shawarma is like the ultimate on the go meal. Thinly sliced meat, wrapped in a pita bread with veggies and sauce is a delicious quick meal. Before attempting a shawarma recipe, please read Shawarma 101: Tips for Making Authentic Shawarma . You won't be disappointed! 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Gamemako. Confidence votes 908. A shawarma is a Middle-Eastern-style wrap composed of shaved meats. Common meats used include lamb, goat, chicken, turkey, beef, or a mixture of meats. The meat is marinated and skewered with an onion or tomato on the end for flavoring. It is then roasted on a rotating spit for several hours, similar to a rotisserie.
Shawarma may be named for the way the meat is cooked, but there are a number of other important ingredients in the dish as well. The bread that is used to wrap the ingredients together is usually the type of flatbread that is traditionally eaten in the area. Lavash, pita, and taboon are are often used. Shawarma is street food that's found in many countries in the Middle East. Goat meat is commonly used in shawarma. Doner meat for shawarma being cut off the spit with a knife. Pita bread, which is commonly served with shawarma.
Though shawarma is a dish found all over the Middle East, North Africa, and parts of Europe, the word itself is an approximation of an Arabic word. In Arabic, shawarma is a verb that means, “to turn.” In other countries that have a shawarma-like dish, the word for the dish varies, but the meaning remains the same. Shawarma is street food that's found in many countries in the Middle East. Goat meat is commonly used in shawarma. Doner meat for shawarma being cut off the spit with a knife. Pita bread, which is commonly served with shawarma.
Okay, so technically this recipe should actually be called Shawarma-Style Chicken. True shawarma is cooked with stacked, spice-marinated meats– lamb, turkey, chicken, beef, or a mix of meats– on a vertical spit. The shawarma turns and cooks on the spit for hours and hours, basted in fat and its own juices. Fat = flavor = tasty, amazing shawarma. 
The shawarma and the gyro. You may have seen these luscious meats wrapped in pita and sold in a food court, on the street or in a restaurant and wondered, what is that, exactly?. However, what really sets the shawarma apart from the gyro is the garnish, or rather, the extent of the garnish. The Israeli shawarma, for example, offers generous servings of hummus, tahini and, perhaps most important, pickled mangoes.
Shavings are cut off the block of meat for serving, and the remainder of the block of meat is kept heated on the rotating spit. Shawarma can be served on a plate (generally with accompaniments), or as a sandwich or wrap. Shawarma is usually eaten with tabbouleh, fattoush, taboon bread, tomato, and cucumber. Toppings include tahini, hummus, pickled turnips, and amba. It is akin to the Turkish doner kebab and the Greek gyros. Chicken shawarma is served with garlic mayonnaise, toumaia (garlic sauce), pomegranate concentrate, or skhug (a hot chili sauce). Once the shawarma is made, it might be dipped in the fat dripping from the skewer and then briefly seared against the flame.