Famotidine a histamine-2 blockers. Famotidine works by decreasing the amount of acid the stomach produces. Famotidine is used to treat and prevent ulcers in the stomach and intestines. It also treats conditions in which the stomach produces too much acid, such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. 
The enzyme active site is the binding site for catalytic and inhibition reactions of enzyme and substrate; structure of active site and its chemical characteristic are of specific for the binding of a particular substrate. The three dimensional cleft is formed by the groups that come from different part of the amino acid sequences. The active site is only a small part of the total enzyme volume. It enhances the enzyme to bind to substrate and catalysis by many different weak interactions because of its nonpolar microenvironment.
An active site is the part of an enzyme that directly binds to a substrate and carries a reaction. It contains catalytic groups which are amino acids that promote formation and degradation of bonds. The three dimensional cleft is formed by the groups that come from different part of the amino acid sequences. The active site is only a small part of the total enzyme volume. It enhances the enzyme to bind to substrate and catalysis by many different weak interactions because of its nonpolar microenvironment.
2. Molecule Geometry. The substrate molecule fits into the active site of the enzyme molecule like a key fitting into a lock (in fact it is sometimes called a. mechanism). Once there, the enzyme changes shape slightly, distorting the molecule in the active site, and making it more likely to change into the product. The reaction takes place in a small part of the enzyme called the. , while the rest of the protein acts as scaffolding. This is shown in this diagram of a molecule of the enzyme. , with a short length of starch being digested in its active site.
A molecule may be homonuclear, that is, it consists of atoms of a single chemical element, as with oxygen (O 2); or it may be heteronuclear, a chemical compound composed of more than one element, as with water (H 2 O). 
DRUG DESCRIPTION. The active ingredient in PEPCID® (famotidine) is a histamine H2-receptor antagonist. Famotidine is N'(aminosulfonyl)-3-[[[2-[(diaminomethylene)amino]-4-thiazolyl]methyl]thio]propanimidamide. The empirical formula of famotidine is C 8 H 15 N 7 O 2 S 3 and its molecular weight is 337.43. Its structural formula is: Stop using famotidine and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  easy bruising or bleeding; 2  fast or pounding heartbeat; 3  confusion, hallucinations, seizure; 4  numbness or tingly feeling; or. 5  jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes).
Famotidine and ranitidine are part of a group of drugs called histamine H 2 -receptor antagonists. The other two main members, as of 2011, are cimetidine and nizatidine. All of these drugs specifically act on a molecule called a H 2 -receptor, which sticks out from the outside of some cells. 
Active and passive transport are biological processes that move oxygen, water and nutrients into cells and remove waste products. Active transport requires chemical energy because it is the movement of biochemicals from areas of lower concentration to areas of higher concentration. 
Famotidine belongs to a group of medicines called H2-antagonists or H2-blockers. It works by reducing the amount of acid in the stomach thereby reducing the pain and allowing the ulcer to heal. This medicine is available only with a doctor's prescription. There is no evidence that this medicine is addictive. 
Famotidine (/fəˈmɒtɪdiːn/ l trade name Pepcid) is a histamine H2-receptor antagonist that inhibits stomach acid production. It is commonly used in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and gastroesophageal reflux disease. Unlike cimetidine, the first H 2 antagonist, famotidine has no effect on the cytochrome P450 enzyme system, and does not appear to interact with other drugs. In the United States and Canada, a product called Pepcid Complete, which combines famotidine with an antacid in a chewable tablet to quickly relieve the symptoms of excess stomach acid, is available. In the UK, this product was known as Pepcidtwo prior to its discontinuation in April 2015.