concretion, mass or nodule of mineral matter, usually oval or nearly spherical in shape, and occurring in sedimentary rock. It is formed by the accumulation of mineral matter in the pore spaces of the sediment, usually around a fossil or fossil fragment acting as a nucleus. Most concretions are very dense and compact, and are usually composed of calcite, silica, or iron oxide.
A concretion consists of the same material as the rock around it, plus the cementing mineral, whereas a nodule (like flint nodules in limestone) is composed of different material. Concretions can be shaped like cylinders, sheets, nearly perfect spheres and everything in between. 1 of 1. 1. Concretions are hard bodies that form in sediments before they become sedimentary rocks. Slow chemical changes, perhaps related to microbial activity, cause minerals to come out of the groundwater and cement the sediment together.
Septarian concretions are a special type of concretion. Concretions are masses of mineral matter formed when minerals in water are deposited about a nucleus (such as a leaf or shell or other particle) forming a rounded mass whose composition or cement is usually different from the surrounding rock.
Concretion. Loading. CONCRETION, in petrology, a name applied to nodular or irregularly shaped masses of various size occurring in a great variety of sedimentary rocks, differing in composition from the main mass of the rock, and in most cases obviously formed by some process which ensued after the rock was deposited. Another type of concretion, very abundant in many clays and shales, is the septarian nodule.. These are usually flattened, disk-shaped or ovoid, often lobulate externally like the surface of a kidney.
A concretion is a compact mass of mineral matter, usually spherical or disk-shaped, embedded in a host rock of a different composition. This hard, round mass of sedimentary rock cement is carried into place by ground water. This shape of concretion is unofficially known as a Tear-drop-or-Raindrop The rock is approximately seven inches wide and about twelve inches tall, and VERY HEAVY!
A concretion is a hard, compact mass of matter formed by the precipitation of mineral cement within the spaces between particles, and is found in sedimentary rock or soil. Concretions are often ovoid or spherical in shape, although irregular shapes also occur. The word 'concretion' is derived from the Latin con meaning 'together' and crescere meaning 'to grow'. Concretions form within layers of sedimentary strata that have already been deposited. They usually form early in the burial history of the sediment, before the rest of the sediment is hardened into rock
: something concreted: as a: a hard usually inorganic mass (as a bezoar or tophus) formed in a living body b: a mass of mineral matter found generally in rock of a composition different from its own and produced by deposition from aqueous solution in the rock. 2. 1. : something concreted: as a: a hard usually inorganic mass (as a bezoar or tophus) formed in a living body b: a mass of mineral matter found generally in rock of a composition different from its own and produced by deposition from aqueous solution in the rock. 2. — con·cre·tion·ary \-shə-ˌner-ē\ adjective.
Composed of a carbonate mineral such as calcite. A concretion is a compact mass of mineral matter, usually spherical or disk-shaped, embedded in a host rock of a different composition. This hard, round mass of sedimentary rock cement is carried into place by ground water. 
concretion. 1. any of various rounded or irregular mineral masses formed by chemical precipitation around a nucleus, such as a bone or shell, that is different in composition from the sedimentary rock that surrounds it. 2.