The keyway in the hub has a taper that matches that of the tapered key. Some taper keys have a gib, or tab, for easier removal during disassembly. The purpose of the taper is to secure the key itself, as well as, to firmly engage the shaft to the hub without the need for a set screw. The key prevents relative rotation between the two parts and may enable torque transmission. For a key to function, the shaft and rotating machine element must have a keyway and a keyseat, which is a slot and pocket in which the key fits. The whole system is called a keyed joint.
Should the keyway be aligned with the tapered part of the shaft, or with the shaft itself? I am guessing that it would be with the shaft, not the taper, because if I needed to broach a key way in the hub, it would be aligned with the centerline of the hub, not the taper. Am I correct in my thinking? A tapered keyseat might bind radially before the shaft and bore were in proper contact, and this would negate the reasons for the taper fit. Usually the taper fit between shaft and bore also carries torque well, so key is more for registration than torque, another reason why you want a straight, non-binding key fit.
So this means when you see a set of taper tip iron shafts in a set of irons off the rack and the shaft is not a True Temper Dynamic, it’s a waste of time for them to do this, since the tapered and parallel versions are the same. 
Propeller Shaft Installation. Propeller Fit: In order to properly mate the propeller to the shaft taper, the following is one of the most commonly used methods: 1. The taper should be coated with Prussian Blue. 2. The propeller should then be put on the shaft without the key and gently tapped snug onto the taper. 3. Propeller and Key Installation: The propeller should always be installed on the shaft taper first without the key, and its position marked with a pencil. The propeller is. then removed, the key installed and the propeller installed so its position is at the pencil mark. This precaution will indicate if the propeller
1,442. Dsergison is right that since a Woodruff keyseat is round, alignment is irrelevant for the keyseat in the shaft. IME seats for straight keys in tapered shafts or bores are parallel to the axis, not the surface. A tapered keyseat might bind radially before the shaft and bore were in proper contact, and this would negate the reasons for the taper fit. Usually the taper fit between shaft and bore also carries torque well, so key is more for registration than torque, another reason why you want a straight, non-binding key fit.
Propeller Fitting Instructions. How to fit your propeller onto a tapered shaft correctly. 1. Check propeller shaft. After removing the old propeller check that the shaft taper, key and thread are undamaged. Try the propeller shaft nut on the shaft thread. The shaft taper should be clean and dry. It will be helpful to mark the direction of the key in the keyway. 4. Propeller fit. Dry fit the propeller to the shaft, without the key in place first. Check that the propeller does not rock on the taper. Mark the shaft at the forward end of the propeller hub
A Scotch key or Dutch key also provides a keyway not by milling but by drilling axially into the part and the shaft, so that a round key can be used. If the key is tapered, it is referred to as a Dutch pin and is driven in, and generally cut off flush with the end of the shaft. The key prevents relative rotation between the two parts and may enable torque transmission. For a key to function, the shaft and rotating machine element must have a keyway and a keyseat, which is a slot and pocket in which the key fits. The whole system is called a keyed joint.
Propeller Fit: In order to properly mate the propeller to the shaft taper, the following is one of the most commonly used methods: 1. The taper should be coated with Prussian Blue. 2. The propeller should then be put on the shaft without the key and gently tapped snug onto the taper. Propeller and Key Installation: The propeller should always be installed on the shaft taper first without the key, and its position marked with a pencil. The propeller is. then removed, the key installed and the propeller installed so its position is at the pencil mark. This precaution will indicate if the propell