Lipomassage™ by Endermologie® is the latest generation of Endermologie® treatments dedicated to localized fat, cellulite and contours. With major technological and protocols innovations, Lipomassage cellulite treatment is able to produce faster and more targeted results. Lipomassage™ by Endermologie® is a non-surgical, noninvasive procedure, not requiring anesthesia or breaking of the skin. There is typically no pain or downtime experienced with Lipomassage™. Plastic surgeons all over the country do, in fact, recommend Lipomassage™ as part of the Liposuction process.
Lipomassage is a technology by Endermologie, which is a localized massage therapy to fight against fat, cellulite, and unwanted contours. The website claims that in just six treatments the patient’s skin is reconditioned and cellulite is much less visible. Lipomassage is not just about looking good and forget the diet! The massage itself will never take the cellulite away if the client doesn’t change the way they see the body, what I mean is that the body has to be treated as a whole.
Lipomassage™ is a non-invasive treatment from Endermologie® to treat localized fat pockets and shape the body. Lipomassage™ can reduce the appearance of cellulite in just six, 35-minute sessions. There are no injections, incisions, or drugs, and patients experience little to no side effects after treatment. Since Lipomassage™ is a non-invasive treatment, the side effects associated with the procedure are relatively minor. Patients may experience light bruising and broken capillaries at the treatment site.
A favourite with celebrities, Lipomassage from Endermologie is a state of the art, scientifically proven (with a vast number of research studies behind it), non invasive way to eliminate fat retention, cellulite and loose skin. Due to its fantastic results, many cosmetic surgeons recommend Endermologie Lipomassage to their patients following surgery. “Endermologie Lipomassage targets all problem fatty areas-no matter how resistant they are to other methods.
Lipomassage's major point of difference to any other device is the synchronisation of mechanical rollers and suction in a controlled manner. There is a common misconception that one will work without the other. However if a machine only has suction, the outcome will be no more than a slight increase in circulation. Yes. Lipomassage is an international phenomenon in the beauty, health and wellbeing arena. With a strong presence in over 95 countries with 110,000 treatments performed world wide per day, Lipomassage by Endermologie sets the benchmark in the industry for slimming, anti-cellulite and anti-aging.
Lipomassage™ by Endermologie® is the latest generation of treatments dedicated to reduce or eliminate cellulite. Lipomassage is a unique non-invasive alternative and/or compliment to liposuction procedures. For more information contact us, phone: (425) 746-6100 or send us an email. Lipomassage™ by Endermologie® is a non-surgical, noninvasive procedure, not requiring anesthesia or breaking of the skin. There is typically no pain or downtime experienced with Lipomassage™. Plastic surgeons all over the country do, in fact, recommend Lipomassage™ as part of the Liposuction process.
Lipomassage by Endermologie is a non-invasive treatment that manipulates the connective tissue through mechanotransduction, resulting in slimming, cellulite reduction and anti-aging. The benefits go far beyond aesthetics to encompass your total physiological wellbeing. Yes. Yes. Lipomassage is an international phenomenon in the beauty, health and wellbeing arena. With a strong presence in over 95 countries with 110,000 treatments performed world wide per day, Lipomassage by Endermologie sets the benchmark in the industry for slimming, anti-cellulite
Lipomassage Therapy. LPG Lipomassage has been designed to permanently eliminate stubborn fat, as well as cellulite, love handles, post menopausal thickness around the waist. You diet and exercise. You are in excellent health, but for some reason, you still have lumpy areas. After six sessions of Lipomassage lasting 35 minutes each, you will see visible results on your figure, losing fat where you wanted it gone. It is also useful for those who have lost weight and want to get their skin firm and elastic again.
Lipomassage cellulite treatment by Endermologie® is a unique, non-invasive way of shaping your body, reducing the appearance of cellulite and improving overall skin fitness. Lipomassage™ by Endermologie® is a non-surgical, noninvasive procedure, not requiring anesthesia or breaking of the skin. There is typically no pain or downtime experienced with Lipomassage™. Plastic surgeons all over the country do, in fact, recommend Lipomassage™ as part of the Liposuction process.
Lipomassage by Endermologie® is a non-surgical, noninvasive procedure, not requiring anesthesia or breaking of the skin. There is no pain or downtime experienced with Lipomassage. Plastic surgeons all over the country do, in fact, recommend Lipomassage as part of the Liposuction process. 