Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. Many autoimmune diseases don’t restrict themselves to one part of the body. For example, SLE can affect the skin, joints, kidneys, heart, nerves, blood vessels, and more. Type 1 diabetes can affect your glands, eyes, kidneys, muscle
Autoimmune Diseases. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body’s own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and inflammatory bowel disease. 
There are many autoimmune disorders. Some of the more common autoimmune disorders include Graves disease, rheumatoid arthritis, Hashimoto thyroiditis, type I diabetes, systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus), and vasculitis. 
Overall, autoimmune diseases are common, affecting more than 23.5 million Americans. They are a leading cause of death and disability. Yet some autoimmune diseases are rare, while others, such as Hashimoto's disease, affect many people. Although each disease is unique, many share hallmark symptoms, such as fatigue, dizziness, and low-grade fever. For many autoimmune diseases, symptoms come and go, or can be mild sometimes and severe at others. When symptoms go away for a while, it's called remission. Flares are the sudden and severe onset of symptoms.
Autoimmune Disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
In a few types of autoimmune disease (such as rheumatic fever), a virus or infection with bacteria triggers an immune response and the antibodies or immune cells called T-cells attack normal cells because some part of their structure resembles a part of the infecting microorganism. Most autoimmune disorders are rare. However, the overall number of cases of autoimmune diseases is rising for unknown reasons. Women are disproportionately affected, representing 80% of people with autoimmune diseases. Some diseases such as lupus and Hashimoto thyroiditis affect 9-10 women for every man affected.
Autoimmune diseases arise from an abnormal immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body (autoimmunity). 
1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 1 The immune system attacks and damages blood vessels in this group of autoimmune diseases. 2  Vasculitis can affect any organ, so symptoms vary widely and can occur almost anywhere in the body. 3  Treatment includes reducing immune system activity, usually with prednisone or another corticosteroid.
About Autoimmune Disease. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body's own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus.
The following are some of the more common autoimmune diseases: 1  rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of joints and surrounding tissues. 2  systemic lupus erythematosus: affects skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs. Autoimmune diseases affect many parts of the body. The most common organs and tissue affected are: 1  joints. 2  muscles. 3  skin. 4  red blood cells. 5  blood vessels. 6  connective tissue. 7  endocrine glands.