“One of the most important changes to American Marketing Association’s new definition for marketing is that marketing is presented as a broader activity,” said Nancy Costopulos, CMO of the American Marketing Association. The new definition reads, “Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.”.
An association of individuals and organizations that are considered to be leaders in the marketing industry. The association, which began in the early 1900s, now boasts 76 chapters and thousands of members across the country. Marketing leaders have access to a variety of resources that help them to improve their businesses.
The American Marketing Association (AMA) is a professional association for marketing professionals with 30,000 members as of 2012. It has 76 professional chapters and 250 collegiate chapters across the United States. The American Marketing Association has a board of directors and a set of councils with positions that are elected annually by its members. The headquarters is located in Chicago, Il. Russ Klein was named CEO in 2014
Chicago—The American Marketing Association has unveiled a new definition of marketing to reflect the discipline’s broader role in society. The new definition reads, “Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.”.
The following definitions were approved by the American Marketing Association Board of Directors: Marketing: Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large. 
In 2004, the American Marketing Association revised the official definition of “marketing,” which had been unchanged since 1985 (before that, it was on the books, untouched, for 50 years). Now, showing its true embrace of Internet time, the AMA is revisiting that 3-year-old definition. 
Branding – definition American Marketing Association: A name, term, design, symbol, or any other feature that identifies one seller's good or service as distinct from those of other sellers. The legal term for brand is trademark. A brand may identify one item, a family of items, or all items of that seller. 
One of the most important changes to American Marketing Association's new definition for marketing is that marketing is presented as a broader activity, says Nancy Costopulos, Chief Marketing Officer of the American Marketing Association. Marketing is no longer a function -- it is an educational process.. As early as 1935, the National Association of Marketing Teachers, a predecessor of the American Marketing Association, conceived the original definition for marketing. The American Marketing Association revisits the definition every five years.
The American Marketing Association today unveiled the new definition of marketing, which will be used as the official definition in books, by marketing professionals and taught in university lecture halls nationwide. As early as 1935, the National Association of Marketing Teachers, a predecessor of the American Marketing Association, conceived the original definition for marketing. The American Marketing Association revisits the definition every five years.