Rosetta is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ro-se-tta. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3292 in baby name popularity for girls with 49 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Traditionally, the first born son was named after the father's father, the first daughter after the father's mother, the second son after the mother's father, and the second daughter after the mother's mother. Some Italians still follow this custom today.
Both the Arabic name Rašīd (meaning guide) and the western name Rosetta or Rosette (little rose in Italian and French respectively) are corruptions (or folk etymologies) of a Coptic toponym, Trashit. Rosetta or Rosette was the name used by the French at the time of Napoleon Bonaparte 's campaign in Egypt and thus became eponymous of the Rosetta Stone (French: Pierre de Rosette), which was found by French soldiers at the nearby Fort Julien in 1799.
Meaning of Rosetta. German name. In German, the name Rosetta means-Noted protector. Also a variant of Rose: Horse; fame.. Other origins for the name Rosetta include-German, Italian, Italian, English.The name Rosetta is most often used as a girl name or female name. German Name Meaning-Noted protector. Also a variant of Rose: Horse; fame. Origin-German.
Rosetta is a variant transcription of Rosa (Latin): popular flower name for girls. Rosetta is also a variant of Rose (Latin): Flower name from rosa. How popular is Rosetta? Rosetta is a very prominent first name for females (#579 out of 4276, Top 14%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#38644 out of 150436, Top 26%).
Rosetta /ro-set-ta/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin derivation, and the name Rosetta means rose. Rosetta is a variant transcription of Rosa (Latin): popular flower name for girls. Rosetta is also a variant of Rose (Latin): Flower name from rosa. See also Etta. Kreatif forms: Risetta, Rosetha, Rosetna. How popular is Rosetta? Rosetta is a very prominent first name for females (#579 out of 4276, Top 14%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#38644 out of 150436, Top 26%).
In Italian the meaning of the name Rosetta is: Rose. American Meaning: The name Rosetta is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rosetta is: Rose. English Meaning: The name Rosetta is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Rosetta is: Rose (flower name). German Meaning: The name Rosetta is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Rosetta is: Noted protector. Also a Horse; fame. 
the rosetta stone. a stone with writing on it in two languages (egyptian and greek), using three scripts (hieroglyphic, demotic and greek). the first was hieroglyphic which was the script used for important or religious documents. the second was demotic which was the common script of egypt.