An animal cell is made of a nucleus, a cell membrane, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrion, a nucleolus, Golgi bodies, ribosomes, lysosomes, and chromosomes. They are not that … different from improved animal cells but different from human cells and improved human cells. Yes, a cell membrane is a organelle that both animal and plant cells share. Yes they do,(A nimal cells do not have a cell wall,A nimal cells have only the membrane to contain and protect) . yes they do have a cell membrane.
All animal cells are eukaryotic, they are surrounded by cell membrane and do not have a cell wall. The components of animal cells are centrioles, cilia and flagella, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, lysosomes, microfilaments, microtubules,mitochondria, nucleus, peroxisomes, plasma membrane and ribosomes. Animal cells do not have cell wall. Due to the lack of the cell wall the size of the cell varies and the shape is irregular. Animal cells contain structures like centrioles, cilia and flagella and lysosomes. Cell membrane: All cells are covered by cell membrane.
A cell membrane selects what things can get in and out of a cell, and is found in all cells. It also protects the cell. A cell wall is found in plant cells only and it supports the plant. Without it, the plant stem will not be able to hold itself and its leaves upright. 
Plant cell are eukaryotic cells, they are membrane bound organelles. They are surrounded by a rigid cell wall. Plant cells are similar to animal cells in being eukaryotic and they have similar cell organelles. Generally, plant cells are larger than animal cells and are mostly similar in size and are rectangular or cube shaped. plant cell contains a few distinctive features like a cell wall, large vacuole and plastids. Animal cells do not have cell wall. Due to the lack of the cell wall the size of the cell varies and the shape is irregular. Animal cells contain structures like centrioles, cilia and flagella and lysosomes. Cell membrane: All cells are covered by cell membrane.
All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole. 
Animal Cell Structure Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles. Unlike the eukaryotic cells of plants and fungi, animal cells do not have a cell wall. This feature was lost in the distant past by the single-celled organisms that gave rise to the kingdom Animalia. In prokaryotes, the membrane is the inner layer of protection surrounded by a rigid cell wall. Eukaryotic animal cells have only the membrane to contain and protect their contents. These membranes also regulate the passage of molecules in and out of the cells.
Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes. Plant and animal cells are both eukaryotic cells, so they have several features in common, such as the presence of a cell membrane, and cell organelles, like the nucleus, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum. Cell Wall. Plant cells have a rigid cell wall that surrounds the cell membrane. Animal cells do not have a cell wall. When looking under a microscope, the cell wall is an easy way to distinguish plant cells.