Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Clownfish live in coral reefs, specifically in the tropical regions of the world, such as the Great Barrier Reef, many parts of Indonesia, and other tropical seas as well, such as the Pacific Ocean (near the Equator). 
Clownfish live in a symbiotic relationship with certain anemones. This means they benefit from living with the sea anemone, and the sea anemone benefits from the presence of the clownfish. They are the only fish that are able to live in sea anemones and not get stung by their tentacles. People who catch clownfish and keep them as pets in aquariums are making a mistake. There are only ten out of more than one thousand types of anemone that are able to host these fish. Many people put the fish in a tank with the wrong anemone. In captivity, the clownfish can live from 3 to 5 years. In the wild, they live 6 to 10 year
They defend their territory and the sea anemone that they live in. Clownfish eat the leftovers from fish on the anemone and algae. The leftovers include copepods, isopods and zooplankton. Clownfish have a few ocean predators, but their greatest threat is humans. People who catch clownfish and keep them as pets in aquariums are making a mistake. There are only ten out of more than one thousand types of anemone that are able to host these fish. Many people put the fish in a tank with the wrong anemone. In captivity, the clownfish can live from 3 to 5 years. In the wild, they live 6 to 10 year
Clownfish are also known as anemonefish because they live in community with sea anemones. Relationship between clownfish and anemone is called symbiosis, which means that both species have benefits from mutual life. Clownfish is immune to the venom of anemone because it has thick layer of mucus on the surface of the body. Percula clownfish is a type of clownfish which introduces itself to the anemone by performing a dance. Besides dead tentacles and anemone's leftovers, clownfish eats various algae and plankton.
Of the over 1,000 anemone that live in the ocean, only 10 species coexists with the 26 species of tropical clownfish. Within these species, only select pairs of anemone and clownfish are compatible. Together, they are obligatory symbionts, which means that each species is highly dependent on the other for survival. 
Clownfish live in sea anemone because they are benefited by the sea anemone. The sea anemone are also benefited by this relationship. This is called mutualism. The clownfish a … re the only fish in the sea that are not stung by the sea anemone's long tentacles. Clownfish eat other fish leftover from the anemone. Answer by Jono999live. Confidence votes 288. Clown fish are found all over the tropical pacific, from the red sea in north Africa, down to the great barrier reef in Australia, and all the reefs in between. They live in the phonic (high light) areas on the reef, living in and around their host anemone. The anemone protects the clown fish from their predators
Clownfish live at the bottom of the sea in sheltered reefs or in shallow lagoons, usually in pairs. Clownfish have a special relationship with the anemone and are very importa … nt to them. They are a large help to the anemone as they clean the anemone by eating the algae and other food leftovers on them. They also protect the sea anemones by chasing away polyp-eating fish, such as the butterfly fish.
The clownfish is a type of fish that lives in salt water habitats. It is also called an Anemonefish. Clownfish are typically very bright, orange fish that have three white stripes, one at the head, middle and tail. People who catch clownfish and keep them as pets in aquariums are making a mistake. There are only ten out of more than one thousand types of anemone that are able to host these fish. Many people put the fish in a tank with the wrong anemone. In captivity, the clownfish can live from 3 to 5 years. In the wild, they live 6 to 10 years