Piave Vecchio (or Piave Stravecchio) is an Italian cow's milk cheese named after a river by the same name. It is DOP protected and the only authentic Piave Vecchio is produced in the Dolomites area of Belluno province of Veneto. The Vecchio or matured variety of Piave is offered beyond 180 days of aging and comes with a blue label.
Piave is sold throughout Europe and even in the US as a hard cheese at which point its taste resembles that of a young Parmigiano Reggiano. The red label is aged at least 1 year and is called Vecchio (Piave Vecchio Selezione Oro), while the blue label is softer. Piave is a hard, cooked curd cheese, offered at 5 different ages: 1  Piave Fresco (20 to 60 days aging-blue label). 2  Piave Mezzano (61 to 180 days aging-blue label). 3  Piave Vecchio (more than 6 month
As Piave has a Protected Designation of Origin (Denominazione di Origine Protetta or DOP), the only official Piave is produced in the Dolomites area, province of Belluno, in the northernmost tip of the Veneto region. Piave is a hard, cooked curd cheese, offered at 5 different ages: 1  Piave Fresco (20 to 60 days aging-blue label). 2  Piave Mezzano (61 to 180 days aging-blue label). 3  Piave Vecchio (more than 6 months aging-blue label).
Print. A cow's milk cheese that is made in the Piave River valley region of Belluno, Italy that is very similar to Montasio cheese. Like Montasio, Piave is made from the milk of two milkings. The evening milking is semi-skimmed in a natural skimming process to remove the cream before the milk is mixed with the milk from the morning milking. Produced as a wheel, Piave cheese has a dense texture without holes that is straw-yellow in color and slightly sweet with a delicate tasting flavor.
Piave cheese has a dense texture, without holes, and is straw-yellow in hue. It has a slightly sweet flavor. Once fully aged, it becomes hard enough for grating, and it develops an intense, full-bodied flavor. Piave is a hard, cooked curd cheese, offered at 5 different ages: 1  Piave Fresco (20 to 60 days aging-blue label). 2  Piave Mezzano (61 to 180 days aging-blue label). 3  Piave Vecchio (more than 6 month
Piave is an Italian cow's milk cheese, that is named after the Piave river. Piave is a hard, cooked curd cheese, offered at 5 different ages: 1  Piave Fresco (20 to 60 days aging-blue label). 2  Piave Mezzano (61 to 180 days aging-blue label). 3  Piave Vecchio (more than 6 month
Piave is an Italian cow's milk cheese named after a river by the same name. It is DOP protected and the only authentic Piave is produced in the Dolomites area of Belluno province of Veneto. A sweet tasting cheese intensifies with aging. The rind is soft and clear when fresh becoming hard and brownish colour in advanced ages. The holes are also absent in aged Piave. Depending on the type, texture and flavour of the Piave, the cheese goes well as a grating as well as a table cheese.
Thanks to the processing and the quality of the raw materials, Piave cheese obtained Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) status in May 2010. It has a sweet and intense flavour which becomes more pronounced as the cheese ages. Piave cheese is only produced in the province of Belluno, located in the northernmost part of the Veneto region and wedged between Trentino Alto Adige and Friuli. The legendary Piave river flows through this area dominated by the famous ...
Also called, Parmesan's Cousin due to apparent similarities in flavour, Piave is a hard, cooked curd cheese sold at five different maturation periods. As a thumb's rule, Piave is dense in texture without any open holes. The colour of the pate is white in fresco, which becomes straw coloured as the cheese matures. A sweet tasting cheese intensifies with aging. The rind is soft and clear when fresh becoming hard and brownish colour in advanced ages. The holes are also absent in aged Piave. Depending on the type, texture and flavour of the Piave, the cheese goes well as a grating as well as a table cheese. Its mild, sweet and delicate taste can be paired with Zinfandel or full-bodied red wine like Barolo and Amarone
About. An Italian hard cows' milk cheese named after the river, Piave in Mount Peralba in northern Veneto, Italy. It is an intensely flavored cheese and is similar to Parmigiano Regggiano. The taste becomes stronger with age. It is well paired with Sangioovese and Zinfandel. 