A low hemoglobin count is generally defined as less than 13.5 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter (135 grams per liter) of blood for men and less than 12 grams per deciliter (120 grams per liter) for women. In children, the definition varies with age and sex. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
Guide. A glycohemoglobin test, or hemoglobin A1c, is a blood test that checks the amount of sugar (glucose) bound to the hemoglobin in the red blood cells. When hemoglobin and glucose bond, a coat of sugar forms on the hemoglobin. 
A hemoglobin test reveals how much hemoglobin is in a person's blood. 1 The Meaning of Hemoglobin Test Results A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in blood. 2  Hemoglobin is a protein found in the red blood cells that transfers oxygen to organs and tissues. 3  It carries car….
Low hemoglobin with low RBC count and low hematocrit indicates anemia. Some causes include: 1  Excessive loss of blood from, for example, severe trauma or chronic bleeding from sites such as the digestive tract (e.g., ulcers, polyps, colon cancer), the bladder or uterus (in women, heavy menstrual bleeding, for example). The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include:
Hemoglobin Levels: The blood test will identify the level of hemoglobin, which is the oxygen-carrying power of your red blood cells. The expected level is between 12 to 14 grams. A treatment for anemia will be prescribed, if your level falls below 10 grams. A blood test is a routine test used by your healthcare provider as part of your prenatal care. Although blood tests are used in screening for pregnancy, the following describes how blood tests are used
Definition. A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen to your body's organs and tissues and transports carbon dioxide from your organs and tissues back to your lungs. If a hemoglobin test reveals that your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, it means you have a low red blood cell count (anemia). Anemia can have many different causes, including vitamin deficiencies, bleeding and chronic diseases
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. 
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include:
Definition. A low hemoglobin count is a commonly seen blood test result. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
Definition. Hemoglobin is a protein inside red blood cells that carries oxygen. A hemoglobin test reveals how much hemoglobin is in a person's blood. This information can be used to help physician's diagnose and monitor anemia (a low hemoglobin level) and polycythemia vera (a high hemoglobin level). A hemoglobin test is performed to determine the amount of hemoglobin in a person's red blood cells (RBCs).