1 Spaying a pregnant dog costs about $50 to $125 extra. 2  Laser surgery can reduce pain, bleeding and swelling, and can be more precise, but costs between one-quarter and one-third more. 3  Most veterinarians offer the option of pre-anesthesia blood work, to make sure the liver and kidneys are working properly, for about $40. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.
1 Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 2  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.
Additional Costs. You may have to pay extra for the neutering procedure if the dog is in heat or obese. Most vets will charge a flat fee of $25 to $50. If the dog is pregnant, the spaying may cost more (an extra $50 to $100). After the surgery, the dog will require pain medication, which will cost something extra. The costs of neutering should include the general anesthesia as well. You may have to pay extra for the neutering procedure if the dog is in heat or obese. Most vets will charge a flat fee of $25 to $50. If the dog is pregnant, the spaying may cost more (an extra $50 to $100).
It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side. 
The cost depends a lot on where you go. Some shelters and low cost clinics will spay and neuter for as low as $50 or less. Other veterinary hospitals will likely charge you around $200 (give or take) for a canine neuter, and $50-100 more for a spay (as it's a more complicated procedure than a neuter). If you go to a vet it'll be around 300 dollars. Try looking into your local humane society. They usually do it for around 50-70 dollars. The spay/neuter procedure is cheaper than having to care for a whole litter of puppies. Please get it spayed/neutered. There are so many homeless pets in the world..
Dog Spay/Neuter. Having your dog “spayed” (also known as “neutered” or “fixed”) is a surgical procedure to remove your pet’s reproductive organs. In the case of spaying your female dog, the ovaries and uterus are removed. For your male dog, the testicles are removed, also known as “castration”). 
Depends on your vet. My vet in Kentucky will spay for 60 bucks the vet I go to in Michigan wants 130 dollars. Spaying your dog will only make it healthier and live longer. All my animals are fixed and I have not noticed any drive loss. Same thing applies for the males. Call your vet, he'll tell you. There are some places that charge as little as $25 and as much as $300! But trust me,it's worth it to see your dog happy and healthy.
The cost to have your dog neutered can range from a low of $45 at a low-cost animal clinic up to $300 or more for some private veterinarians. Large towns, where there is a more obvious pet overpopulation problem and competing clinics, will likely have more cheap alternatives when it comes to price. 
1 The cost of spaying, a more complicated surgery, usually ranges from about $50 to $175. 2  Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 3  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. 1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free.