Health Requirements: To breed sucessfully, each breeding Lovebird should be healthy, normal, and between one and five years of age. Nesting Requirements: Lovebirds need a nest box in which to lay their eggs. The proper size for a Lovebird is about 12x12x12, with an entrance hole of about 3 inches in diameter. Egg Laying: Female Lovebirds will lay their eggs between 5 - 12 days after mating. Many will lay an egg every other day until they have all been laid. Each clutch usually contains between 3 and 7 eggs. Incubation Time: On average, Lovebirds incubate their eggs for about 23 days
1 Lovebirds will breed willingly as single pairs and some species of lovebirds can be bred in a colony setting. 2  Especially suited to a colony are the white eye-ring group of lovebirds. 3  Breeding Age for Lovebirds. 4  Lovebirds need to be at least 10 months old, though 12 to 13 months is better. Housing. Lovebirds are very active birds. When housing your lovebird, bird cages or an aviary best suited to them must provide a lot of space. 1  Bird Cages: A minimum of 32 x 20 x 20 (81 x 50 x 50 cm) per pair of birds is recommended with about four perches, feed and water dishes and an area for a bath.
As the breeding season approaches, the female lovebird will tuck nesting material into her wings and will carry it back to the nest. During this time, males will mate with the female repeatedly and eggs can be expected within three to five days after mating. 
Refer to  Housing Birds  web page for additional general details on the housing of Parrots. Lovebirds are inexpensive, easy to breed, easy to feed. One pair can be housed indoors in a Budgie breeder type cage of about 900mm long, 500mm wide and 500mm high (36 x 20 x 20 inches). Larger numbers can be housed in an outside aviary. Suspended cages can be used and be the same size as stated for the cages. Commercially made lovebird breeding boxes can be purchased cheaply form most bird dealers, pet shops and bird clubs. Boxes are usually timber and the lower part is about 200 - 250 mm long, 150 - 200 mm wide, and about 200 - 250 mm high.
Often after a long separation or stressful period of time, breeding pairs of lovebirds feed each other to re-establish their bond. One bird transfers food to the mouth of its mate, a feeding technique reminiscent of affection in humans—hence the inspiration for the parrots' name. 1. Lovebirds mate for life. The monogamous birds reach sexual maturity when they're about ten months old. Mating begins with courtship behavior, and can continue throughout their roughly 15-year lifespans.
Usually a combination of these are best. Determined Lovebirds can build their nest in 4 or 5 days. The first egg is laid about 10 days after mating, and another egg is laid every other day until the clutch is 4 to 6 eggs. After 6 or 7 days, you should be able t o tell if the eggs are fertile by candling them. Hold the eggs gently near a bright light. 
Usually breeding Lovebirds lay their eggs between 5 to 12 days after mating. The hen spends long period of time in the nest box as laying time approaches and at this time, sufficient supplies of drench seed and cuttle fish bone should be made available. There are four to six eggs laid in alternating days. 