For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Hospice Director in the United States is $103,878, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Hospice Director in the United States are expected to make less than $103,878. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Staff Nurse-RN-Hospice in the United States is $64,548 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Hospice in the United States are expected to make less than $64,548. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $64,548. The annual salary for someone with the job title Staff Nurse-RN-Hospice may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Average Family Hospice and Palliative Care salaries for job postings nationwide are 42% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Average Hospice Aide Salaries. The average salary for hospice aide jobs is $35,000. Average hospice aide salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term hospice aide anywhere in the job listing
Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Arizona are 18% lower than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 43rd among states in the country. Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Alabama are 1% higher than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 9th among states in the country.
Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Alaska are 26% lower than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 47th among states in the country. Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Alabama are 1% higher than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 9th among states in the country.
Read More. The average Seasons Hospice employee earns $55K per year. Though your experience level and your role at the company are influential salary factors for those at Seasons Hospice, geography turns out to have the greatest impact on paycheck size. The data for this report comes from responses to the PayScale salary survey. Employer: Seasons Hospice. When it comes to location, the highest average paycheck (about $93K annually) can be spotted in Chicago, Ill.; Newark, Del. (around $82K), San Antonio, Texas ($69K), and Milwaukee, Wisc. ($52K) are the next top-paying cities. Detroit, Mich. is near the bottom for pay at $50K.
Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Delaware are 12% lower than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 33rd among states in the country. Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Alabama are 1% higher than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 9th among states in the country.
Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Arkansas are 1% higher than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 13th among states in the country. Average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings in Alabama are 1% higher than average Certified Nursing Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 9th among states in the country.