Polymer clay is a type of hardenable modeling clay based on the polymer polyvinyl chloride (PVC). A home pasta-making machine is a popular multi-purpose tool for polymer clay artists. It is used to create sheets of uniform thickness, to mix colors or created variegated sheets, and to condition (soften) the clay.
All you need to create polymer clay pieces is your hands and an oven. Clay artists use various kinds of equipment to make working with the clay easier and to create special effects for some pieces, but these are not really necessary. There are several polymer clay manufacturers; each brand is a little different in softness, strength, and so on, and each one offers its own selection of colors. Polymer clay is generally available in small (about 2 oz.) and large (about 12 oz.) packages.
Polymer clay is a malleable and sculptural compound that can be used in many ways. Despite its name, polymer clay contains no mineral clay and is given the name 'clay' because of its texture. Polymer clay is formed from substances similar to those found in PVC with the addition of plasticizer that keep the clay malleable. Polymer clays contain pigments which give them their vibrant colors.
Kato Polyclay is an easy-to-use polymer clay that bakes in 10 minutes to become a hard, durable material. Stronger than other clays, objects made with Kato Polyclay become permanent works of art that will resist breaking and wear over time. Its versatile and smooth texture allows for detailed results for all types of work including figures, caning, jewelry, home decor, décor and model. making
Kato Polyclay was formulated to embody the most desirable working properties possible. Strength, stability, firmness, and a wide spectrum of colors allow users to create pieces of artistic excellence. Kato Polyclay is a unique line of polymer clay created specifically for artists. Strength. Strength and durability are very important properties in any polymer clay product. Stronger than other clays, objects made with Kato Polyclay become permanent works of art that will resist breaking and wear over time. Its versatile and smooth texture allows for detailed results for all types of work including figures, caning, jewelry, home decor, décor and model. making
Liquid Polyclay. Color Liquid Polyclay. COLOR Liquid Polyclay is a heat-set medium with exceptional strength and flexibility. COLOR Liquid Polyclay is available in 6 vibrant transparent colors including Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, and Violet as well as opaque White and Black. These colors may be intermixed to create new colors and transparent colors can be mixed with opaque White to make opaque colors. Liquid Polyclay Clear Medium. Liquid Polyclay (Clear Medium) is a revolutionary product which allows users to create perfect photo transfers and finishes for Kato Polyclay pieces. It can also be used as an adhesive, grout, or glaze. Liquid Polyclays should be cured at 300F (150C) for 20 minutes for a matte finish.
Polymer clay is generally used for making arts and craft items, and is also used in commercial applications to make decorative parts. Art made from polymer clay can now be found in major museums. A home pasta-making machine is a popular multi-purpose tool for polymer clay artists. It is used to create sheets of uniform thickness, to mix colors or created variegated sheets, and to condition (soften) the clay.
As you can see, all you need to start playing with polymer clay is a few basic tools and materials. That is one of the exciting things about polymer clay, you can use it for all kinds of projects, from jewelry to home decor, and the number of techniques to try is endless. Happy Claying! :). Polymer Clay-How and Where to Start Welcome to the polymer clay family! A polymer clay artist, whether a beginner or advanced needs only a few basic supplies to produce successful results. Some of the best artists don't use many tools beyond the basics.