In the Chinese character 媽 mā mother, the left part is the radical 女 nǚ female. In this case the radical is the semantic component of a phono-semantic compound, while the right part, 馬 mǎ horse, is the phonetic component. The English term radical is based on an analogy between the structure of characters and inflection of words in European languages. Radicals are also sometimes called classifiers, but this name is more commonly applied to grammatical classifiers (measure words)
radical. adj. 1. of, relating to, or characteristic of the basic or inherent constitution of a person or thing; fundamental: a radical fault. 2. concerned with or tending to concentrate on fundamental aspects of a matter; searching or thoroughgoing: radical thought; a radical re-examination. radical-an atom or group of atoms with at least one unpaired electron; in the body it is usually an oxygen molecule that has lost an electron and will stabilize itself by stealing an electron from a nearby molecule; in the body free radicals are high-energy particles that ricochet wildly and damage cells.
A Chinese radical (Chinese: 部首; pinyin: bushǒu; bùshǒu: literally section) header is a graphical component of A chinese character under which the character is traditionally listed in A chinese. dictionary The English term radical is based on an analogy between the structure of characters and inflection of words in European languages. Radicals are also sometimes called classifiers, but this name is more commonly applied to grammatical classifiers (measure words).
In chemistry, a radical (more precisely, a free radical) is an atom, molecule, or ion that has unpaired valency electrons. Most radicals are reasonably stable only at very low concentrations in inert media or in a vacuum. A notable example of a free radical is the hydroxyl radical (HO•), a molecule that has one unpaired electron on the oxygen atom. Two other examples are triplet oxygen and triplet carbene (: CH 2) which have two unpaired electrons. In contrast, the hydroxyl anion (HO−) is not a radical, since the unpaired electron is resolved by the addition of an electron; singlet oxygen and singlet carbene are not radicals as the two electrons are paired
Simplifying powers. Factors of the radicand. Fractional radicand. W E SAY THAT A SQUARE ROOT RADICAL is simplified, or in its simplest form, when the radicand has no square factors. A radical is also in simplest form when the radicand is not a fraction. Example 1. 33, for example, has no square factors. Its factors are 3 · 11, neither of which is a square number. Therefore, is in its simplest form.
The horizontal bar in the radical symbol tells how much of the expression is to be used. In this expression: the bar stretches across the whole expression p-q. So this means we subtract q from p, then find the square root of the result. The number of times the radicand is multiplied by itself. 2 means square root, 3 means cube root. After that they are called the 4th root, 5th root and so on. If this is missing, it is assumed to be 2 - the square root.
A radical (bushu) is a common sub-element found in different kanji characters. Every kanji has a radical or a radical itself can be a kanji. Radicals express the general nature of the kanji characters. A radical is the part of the kanji character that gives you a clue to its origin, group, meaning or pronunciation. Many kanji dictionaries organize characters by their radicals. There are 214 radicals.