Then place the valance – front side down onto the fabric. Make sure pattern is straight and then wrap excess fabric to the back of the panel. Pull taut and use straight pins to attach to the valance. The straight pins need to go in on an angle so they don’t go through the front of the valance. If you would like to know how to: Make a No-sew window valance using cardboard – click – here. Make a wimpy window look bigger –click – here. I have lots more to show you – accessories, floor, and a few more details. So much to do – so little time.
You need your valance DOUBLE the width of your window to get a ruffled look. If you want it straight flat just use the width plus your seam allowances. (We'll get to that in a bit.) So for our 24 window we would need a 48 wide piece of fabric. Write your window measurements down as you go. First thing you want to do is measure your window. There's quite a bit of simple math in any sewing and this is no exception. You'll measure the width of your window. And you'll measure how far of a drop you want your valance to hang. For example's sake we'll say that your window is 24 wide and you want a 12 drop
Fabrics to consider include lightweight woven or knits. If you use a non-fraying fabric, such as a knit, there is no need to sew at all. If you use a fraying fabric and do not wish to sew the edges, spot clean the valance as needed, but do not put it in the washer or dryer. Handkerchiefs. Dress up a window with vintage handkerchiefs as valances. To create this window treatment, hang shower-curtain hooks with clips along the curtain rod. Fold the handkerchiefs in the desired manner and attach them to the clips. For example, fold them in half with a point facing down.
I like to make a fancy fold in the middle of each of my valances, so I measure my fabric 8 inches wider than my window is. If you just want a plain valance with no extra fold, measure the width of your window and cut your fabric 4 inches wider than your window. For the length (from top to bottom), add two inches when cutting your fabric. Let’s start with the sides (short part of your fabric panel).
Repurposed Tablecloths. Another option for a do-it-yourself valance that requires no sewing is a tablecloth. A tablecloth made for a smaller, rectangular table serves as an easy, unique valance. To hang the tablecloth as a valance, loop it around the curtain rod at each corner of the window. Handkerchiefs. Dress up a window with vintage handkerchiefs as valances. To create this window treatment, hang shower-curtain hooks with clips along the curtain rod. Fold the handkerchiefs in the desired manner and attach them to the clips. For example, fold them in half with a point facing down.
To hang the gathered tie-on valance: The extra length of the fabric allows for the gathers and dips in between the ties. Starting on one top edge of the valance-gather about 5-6 inches of fabric in your hand. Wrap the ribbon around it and secure with a knot. Then bring the ends of the ribbon around the rod and back to the front of the gathered fabric. Tie the ribbon into a knot to secure the gathered fabric to the rod. 
Add height to the pattern to compensate for inserting the valance rod. Draw a valance pattern onto the craft paper, and cut it out with the pinking shears. Fold down the rod pocket, staple the rod pocket closed, and test the paper pattern with the rod and window. Adjust measurements. Unstaple the rod pocket, and pin the pattern onto the reverse side of the fabric. Cut the fabric with pinking shears. Pinking shears eliminate the need for a bottom or side hem and create a uniform edging around the entire piece of fabric. . Fold over the top of the fabric to create a rod pocket. Iron the top fold. Iron the sewing tape onto the inside of the valance pocket hem, and seal closed with the iron. Insert the valance rod into the valance and hang.
Add style to bare windows, or update tired window treatments with a new, no-sew valance. Valances typically are partial window coverings, hung at the top of the window to add a decorative touch to a room without completely blocking out light. Make your own personalized valance without having to sew a stitch. Handkerchiefs. Dress up a window with vintage handkerchiefs as valances. To create this window treatment, hang shower-curtain hooks with clips along the curtain rod. Fold the handkerchiefs in the desired manner and attach them to the clips. For example, fold them in half with a point facing down.