Completing an associate degree in respiratory therapy program can open up entry-level opportunities in hospitals and care centers. Medical degrees are in demand, and will provide you with a skillset that will benefit you for the rest of your career.
Becoming a respiratory therapist requires hands-on training as well as class work, so online degrees in respiratory therapy often require students to spend a certain amount of time on campus. Time in residence is used to work in labs and gain experience working with patients.
Respiratory Therapy Program Accreditation. The Associate of Science degree in Respiratory Therapy offered at Independence University is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care(320276) (CoARC) (www.coarc.com).
Students can now earn a Bachelor of Science in Respiratory Care without coming to the Boise campus. The program is designed for Registered Respiratory Therapists who want to earn a BS Degree without leaving their homes. The student is required to complete 11 online courses.
Degrees in respiratory therapy. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), an associate degree is required to become a respiratory therapist, and a bachelor's or master's degree is often preferred for advancement. 1  Associate degree in respiratory therapy. 2  Bachelor of Science in respiratory therapy. 3  Maste
Most online bachelor's degree programs in respiratory therapy are degree-completion programs designed for associate's degree holders that need upper-level courses to complete a 4-year degree.
Clear Future. The online Bachelor of Science in Respiratory Therapy is designed not only to improve clinical skills, but also to provide working respiratory therapists with a deeper understanding of advanced healthcare operations, logistics, technology, leadership, ethics, and project management.
1 Many respiratory therapists choose to pursue a bachelor's degree after earning an associate degree. 2  Online bachelor's degree completion programs allow students to complete their bachelor's degree while working as a respiratory therapist. 3  Master of Science in respiratory therapy.