According to some versions, Styx had miraculous powers and could make someone invulnerable. According to one tradition, Achilles was dipped in the waters of the river by his mother during his childhood, acquiring invulnerability, with exception of his heel, by which his mother held him. In classical myths, she was wife to Pallas and bore him Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia (and sometimes Eos). In those myths, Styx supported Zeus in the Titanomachy, where she was said to be the first to rush to his aid and for this reason her name was given the honor of being a binding oath for the deities.
I love Styx, I have since Paradise Theater came out in 1980. I think Tommy Shaw is using the boat on the river as metaphor for the feeling of serenity that he gets from being high. Generally, I don't like drug songs but we need to keep this song in the context of other Styx songs like Lights and Snowblind.
The Styx is a river in Greek mythology that formed the boundary between Earth and the Underworld. The rivers Styx, Phlegethon, Acheron, and Cocytus all converge at the center of the underworld on a great marsh, which is also sometimes called the Styx. The important rivers of the underworld are Lethe, Eridanos, and Alpheus. The gods were bound by the Styx and swore oaths on it. The reason for this is during the Titan war, Styx, the goddess of the river Styx, sided with Zeus.
Styx. name (from the Greek verb signifying to abhor) of the principal river of the nether world, which it flows sluggishly round seven times; is properly the river of death, which all must cross to enter the unseen world, and of which, in the Greek mythology, Charon was the ferryman. The important rivers of the underworld are Lethe, Eridanos, and Alpheus. The gods were bound by the Styx and swore oaths on it. The reason for this is during the Titan war, Styx, the goddess of the river Styx, sided with Zeus.
The rivers Styx, Phlegethon, Acheron, Lethe, and Cocytus all converge at the center of the underworld on a great marsh, which sometimes, also is called the Styx. In classical myths, she was wife to Pallas and bore him Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia (and sometimes Eos). In those myths, Styx supported Zeus in the Titanomachy, where she was said to be the first to rush to his aid and for this reason her name was given the honor of being a binding oath for the deities.
• RIVER STYX (noun). The noun RIVER STYX has 1 sense: 1. (Greek mythology) a river in Hades across which Charon carried dead souls. Familiarity information: RIVER STYX used as a noun is very rare.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The river of Styx is the river of deceit, hate, and other negative feelings and this river was the border between Earth and the Underworld. And you can say the band Styx relates to that because they are a rock band and back in the 70s, older people called rock music devil music.. But according to this site, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Styx_(band)... the band chose the name Styx because it was the only name they didn't dislike. here you go love found what you were asking about :)las08 In Greek mythology, the River Styx (Greek: στύξ also meaning hate, detest) was a river which formed the boundary between Earth and the Underworld (Hades).
According to Herodotus the river Styx originates near Feneos. Styx also is a goddess with prehistoric roots in Greek mythology as a daughter of Tethys, after whom the river is named and because of whom it had miraculous powers. In classical myths, she was wife to Pallas and bore him Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia (and sometimes Eos). In those myths, Styx supported Zeus in the Titanomachy, where she was said to be the first to rush to his aid and for this reason her name was given the honor of being a binding oath for the deities.
Lyrics Dennis DeYoung wrote specifically about his relationship while moving in and out of concert performance touring with his wife Suzanne DeYoung. The group Styx had become a very commercial act beginning around 1976-1978 and this complicated young Dennis' recent marriage with Suzanne. The piece Babe was written specifically about the periods of time he was away from Suzanne. That he would always love her and come back to her. The only true meaning is what the composer himself, Dennis DeYoung, and his wife, Suzanne DeYoung the target audience, hold in their chest. This is a song for them and them only. It is a piece written about unwavering love. Of struggle with physical distance separation but an eternally strong bond.