The objective of cleaning and sanitizing food contact surfaces is to remove food (nutrients) that bacteria need to grow, and to kill those bacteria that are present. It is important that the clean, sanitized equipment and surfaces drain dry and are stored dry so as to prevent bacteria growth. Recommendations and requirements for hot-water sanitizing in food processing may vary. The Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance specifies a minimum of 77°C (170°F) for 5 min. Other recommendations for processing operations are 85°C (185°F) for 15 min., or 80°C (176°F) for 20 min.
Consumer alcohol-based hand sanitizers, and health care hand alcohol or alcohol hand antiseptic agents, are antiseptic products used to avoid transmission of pathogens. These exist in liquid, foam, and easy-flowing gel formulations. If soap and water are not available it is recommended to use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 percent alcohol or contains a persistent antiseptic. Alcohol rubs kill many different kinds of bacteria, including antibiotic resistant bacteria and TB bacteria.
The official definition (Association of Official Analytical Chemists) of sanitizing for food product contact surfaces is a process which reduces the contamination level by 99.999% (5 logs) in 30 sec. The official definition for non-product contact surfaces requires a contamination reduction of 99.9% (3 logs). Recommendations and requirements for hot-water sanitizing in food processing may vary. The Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance specifies a minimum of 77°C (170°F) for 5 min. Other recommendations for processing operations are 85°C (185°F) for 15 min., or 80°C (176°F) for 20 min.
The verb SANITIZE has 2 senses: 1. make sanitary by cleaning or sterilizing. 2. make less offensive or more acceptable by removing objectionable features. Familiarity information: SANITIZE used as a verb is rare. 
Use clean dishcloths each day. Do not use sponges because they can harbor germs. Step 3: Rinse the dishes well in clean hot water, so that no soap is transferred to the chlorine bleach solution in Step 4. Do not mix bleach in with the soapy water. Soap stops bleach from sanitizing. Step 4: Sanitize the dishes by using either the chlorine bleach solution or hot water method. Step 5: Allow the dishes and equipment to air dry. Do not dry with a cloth or towel, as this may spread germs. 
II. Sanitizing is the process of reducing the number of microorganisms that are on a properly cleaned surface to a safe level. A safe level is defined as a 99.999% reduction of the number of disease microorganisms that are of public health importance. Sanitizing is accomplished by using either heat, radiation, or chemicals. Cleaning is the process of removing food and other types of soil from a surface, such as a dish, glass, or cutting board. Cleaning is accomplished using a cleaning agent that removes food, soil, rust stains, minerals, or other deposit
Cleaning works by using soap (or detergent) and water to physically remove germs from surfaces. This process does not necessarily kill germs, but by removing them, it lowers their numbers and the risk of spreading infection. Disinfecting kills germs on surfaces or objects. Disinfecting works by using chemicals to kill germs on surfaces or objects. This process does not necessarily clean dirty surfaces or remove germs, but by killing germs on a surface after cleaning, it can further lower the risk of spreading infection. 
A hand antiseptic, hand disinfectant, hand sanitiser or hand sanitizer is a supplement or alternative to hand washing with soap and water. Many preparations are available, including gel, foam, and liquid solutions. If soap and water are not available it is recommended to use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 percent alcohol or contains a persistent antiseptic. Alcohol rubs kill many different kinds of bacteria, including antibiotic resistant bacteria and TB bacteria.
I. CLEANING. Cleaning is the process of removing food and other types of soil from a surface, such as a dish, glass, or cutting board. Cleaning is accomplished using a cleaning agent that removes food, soil, rust stains, minerals, or other deposits