Descending aorta: The descending aorta is the part of the aorta, the largest artery in the body, that runs down through the chest and the abdomen. The descending aorta starts after the arch of the aorta and ends by splitting into two great arteries (the common iliac arteries) that go to the legs. The other part of the descending aorta, the. Like other sections of the aorta (the ascending aorta and aortic arch), the descending aorta is an arbitrary anatomic entity. The aorta is one continuous conduit that stems from the left ventricle of the heart to carry blood to most of the body.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The aortic valve functions as a one-way valve between the heart and the rest of the body. Blood is pumped from the left ventricle of the heart, through the valve, and down the aorta, which in turn supplies blood to all of the organs in the body. 
The aorta is the artery that carries oxygenated blood from the left ventricle. Because the aorta can stretch (expand), the pressure of the blood leaving the heart is more slowly and regularly transferred to the arteries. The abdominal aorta provides oxygenated blood and nutrients to the lower half of the body The abdominal aorta is the final section of the largest artery in  the b … ody. It supplies oxygenated blood to the abdominal organs,  pelvic organs, and the legs.
The aorta is the largest artery in the body. Arteries are vessels that carry blood away from the heart. The aorta arises from the left ventricle of the heart, forms an arch, then extends down to the abdomen, where it branches off into two smaller arteries. The aorta carries and distributes oxygen rich blood to all arteries. Most major arteries branch off from the aorta, with the exception of the main pulmonary artery. The walls of the aorta consist of three layers. They are the tunica adventitia, the tunica media, and the tunica intima. These layers are composed of connective tissue, as well as elastic fibers.
© 2013 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The aorta is the largest artery in the body. The aorta begins at the top of the left ventricle, the heart's muscular pumping chamber. The heart pumps blood from the left ventricle into the aorta through the aortic valve. Three leaflets on the aortic valve open and close with each heartbeat to allow one-way flow of blood. The aorta is a tube about a foot long and just over an inch in diameter. The aorta is divided into four sections:
Aortic arch. The aortic arch is the portion of the main artery that bends between the ascending and descending aorta. It leaves the heart and ascends, then descends back to create the arch. The aorta distributes blood from the left ventricle of the heart to the rest of the body
The function of the thoracic aorta is to carry oxygenated blood from the arch of the aorta to the iliac arteries. 18 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Defining the Aorta As the largest artery in the body, the aorta plays a vital role in delivering oxygen to the wider circulation. The abdominal aorta provides oxygenated blood and nutrients to the lower half of the body The abdominal aorta is the final section of the largest artery in  the b … ody. It supplies oxygenated blood to the abdominal organs,  pelvic organs, and the legs.
The aorta (/eɪˈɔrtə/) is the main artery in the human body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and extending down to the abdomen, where it splits into two smaller arteries (the common iliac arteries). The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body through the systemic circulation. 
The aorta is the largest blood vessel in the body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation. The aorta is the main (largest) artery of the circulatory system. The abdominal aorta provides oxygenated blood and nutrients to the lower half of the body The abdominal aorta is the final section of the largest artery in  the b … ody. It supplies oxygenated blood to the abdominal organs,  pelvic organs, and the legs.