Einsatzgruppen did not operate solely in Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland and the Soviet Union. They were active in hunting and killing Jews in many of the other countries occupied by the Nazis, including France, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Greece, Serbia, and even Tunisia. Each of the Einsatzgruppen was divided into two or three Sonderkommandos (SK) and Einsatzkommandos (EK). In theory, the Sonderkommandos operated in the army operational areas whilst the Einsatzkommandos were to function in the rear army areas.
einsatzgruppen: Mobile units of the Security Police and SS Security Service that followed the German armies to Poland in 1939 and to the Soviet Union in June, 1941. 
An execution by einsatzgruppen using small arms. The first wave of the Final Solution began in 1941 with the deployment of mobile killing squads called einsatzgruppen (German for ‘action group’). The einsatzgruppen were comprised of paramilitary personnel from the SS, both conscripts and volunteers. The first significant deployment of the einsatzgruppen as mobile death squads was during Operation Barbarossa, the Nazi invasion of Soviet Russia (June 1941). Another einsatzgruppen unit, unaccompanied by any substantial Wehrmacht divisions, was based further south in the Ukraine
After the close of World War II, 24 senior leaders of the Einsatzgruppen were prosecuted in the Einsatzgruppen Trial in 1947–48, charged with crimes against humanity and war crimes. Fourteen death sentences and two life sentences were handed out. Einsatzgruppen A, B, and C were to be attached to Army Groups North, Centre, and South; Einsatzgruppe D was assigned to the 11th Army. The Einsatzgruppe for Special Purposes operated in eastern Poland starting in July 1941.
The invasion of eastern Europe. The first significant deployment of the einsatzgruppen as mobile death squads was during Operation Barbarossa, the Nazi invasion of Soviet Russia (June 1941). Another einsatzgruppen unit, unaccompanied by any substantial Wehrmacht divisions, was based further south in the Ukrain
Einsatzgruppen (German for task forces, deployment groups ; singular Einsatzgruppe; official full name Einsatzgruppen der Sicherheitspolizei und des SD) were Schutzstaffel (SS) paramilitary death squads of Nazi Germany that were responsible for mass killings, primarily by shooting, during World War II. The largest mass shooting perpetrated by the Einsatzgruppen took place on 29 and 30 September 1941 at Babi Yar, a ravine northwest of Kiev, a city in Ukraine that had fallen to the Germans on 19 September.
The Einsatzgruppen were formed under the direction of SS-Obergruppenfuehrer Obergruppenführer Reinhard heydrich and operated by The (SCHUTZSTAFFEL) ss before and During World WAR. ii Einsatzgruppen A, B, and C were to be attached to Army Groups North, Centre, and South; Einsatzgruppe D was assigned to the 11th Army. The Einsatzgruppe for Special Purposes operated in eastern Poland starting in July 1941.
Einsatzgruppen. Einsatzgruppen (Special Task Forces) were mobile killing units that operated in German-occupied Europe. Members came from the SS (Schutzstaffel), SD (Sicherheitsdienst / Security Service of the SS), Sipo (Sicherheitspolizei / Security Police) and the Orpo (Ordnungspolizei / Order Police). Each of the Einsatzgruppen was divided into two or three Sonderkommandos (SK) and Einsatzkommandos (EK). In theory, the Sonderkommandos operated in the army operational areas whilst the Einsatzkommandos were to function in the rear army areas.
Einsatzgruppen (German for  task forces , deployment groups; singular Einsatzgruppe; official full name Einsatzgruppen der Sicherheitspolizei und des SD) were Schutzstaffel (SS) paramilitary death squads of Nazi Germany that were responsible for mass killings, primarily by shooting, during World War II. Einsatzgruppen A, B, and C were to be attached to Army Groups North, Centre, and South; Einsatzgruppe D was assigned to the 11th Army. The Einsatzgruppe for Special Purposes operated in eastern Poland starting in July 1941.