Frequency Polygons. A frequency polygon is another way to show the information in a frequency table. It looks a little bit like a line graph. To make a frequency polygon, you just need to plot a few points and then join the points by straight lines. Now a frequency polygon and a histogram both show the same information, but in a different way. Why would we want to draw a frequency polygon instead of a histogram? Well, the most common reason is if we want to compare two different sets of data.
Relative Frequency Polygon (A worked Problem: Procedure explained in more detail in Chapter 3). Note about Relative Frequency Polygons: Relative Frequency Polygons are used for comparing 2 frequency distributions that have different numbers of scores (n's). Hint: Remember that to plot a Relative Frequency Polygon you must first generate the two extra class intervals. Hint: Remember that all the points must be plotted at the midpoint. Hint: Remember to connect the points with straight lines. Hint: Remember that without the proper labels the entire graph is wrong.
In a Frequency Polygon, a line graph is drawn by joining all the midpoints of the top of the bars of a histogram. 
A frequency polygon is formed by joining the tips of the bars (the values of the frequencies) with line segments. 
Cumulative Frequency Polygon: Cumulative frequency polygon is similar to a frequency polygon. The difference is that in creating a cumulative frequency polygon we consider cumulative frequencies instead of actual frequencies. The points are then joined are connected to the X-axis and thus a polygon is formed. So, frequency polygon is a graph that is obtained by connecting the middle points of the intervals. We can create a frequency polygon from a histogram also. If the middle top points of the bars of the histogram are joined, a frequency polygon is formed. Frequency polygon and histogram fulfills the same purpose
Count the tallies for the frequency in each class. The following are techniques for representing quantitative data 1  : A frequency histogram is a bar graph that represents the frequency distribution of the data set. 2  A frequency polygon is a line graph that represents the frequency distribution of the data set. The following is the frequency histogram plotted by Minitab for the Internet Usage data on p 33. Note that Minitab uses the exact value of 81/7 to find the class boundaries. Construction a Frequency Polygon in Minitab (Manual p 51). The polygon should be modified to include our breakpoints and bins.
Frequency polygons are also a good choice for displaying cumulative frequency distributions. To create a frequency polygon, start just as for histograms, by choosing a class interval. Then draw an X-axis representing the values of the scores in your data. Mark the middle of each class interval with a tick mark, and label it with the middle value represented by the class. The graph will then touch the X-axis on both sides. A frequency polygon for 642 psychology test scores shown in Figure 1 was constructed from the frequency table shown in Table 1. Table 1. Frequency Distribution of Psychology Test Scores.