Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Tile Backsplash Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Tile Backsplash ranges between $12.18 - $21.43 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1
Do you need to know the average cost to install Glass Tile Backsplash in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Glass Tile Backsplash job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. 1 Glass Tile Backsplash installation costs vary considerably by location. 2  For an accurate estimate in your area, enter your zip code in the calculator above. 3  Reduce total project cost by having multiple vendors bid on the same, detailed work specification of your Glass Tile Backsplash project.
If you’re looking for 2015 breakdown for Cost of Glass Tile Backsplash materials and what installation cost might be, you’ve come to the right place. As an experienced licensed home improvement contractor, I know first hand what it should cost for various levels — from Basic, Better, and of course the best. 1 Try to budget and additional 7-15% more on top of what our calculator gives out for Glass Tile Backsplash costs. 2  Visit every supply house that sell your particular brand of Glass Tile Backsplash and try to negotiate a better price with each supplier – I save on average 20%.
1 For example, a 25 square foot space could cost anywhere from $325 to as much as $600. 2  On a forum thread on the website Gardenweb.com, homeowners claimed that they paid around $550 to install a 42 square foot area; some paid as much as $30 per square foot to have the backsplash installed. 1 Depending upon the quality of the tile, the prices can start at $1 per square foot and go as high as $25 per tile. 2  To have a customized backsplash design drawn up for you, some design companies may charge a consultation fee in order to get the job done.
Glass Tile Backsplash-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors. 1 Glass Tile Backsplash installation costs vary considerably by location. 2  For an accurate estimate in your area, enter your zip code in the calculator above. 3  Reduce total project cost by having multiple vendors bid on the same, detailed work specification of your Glass Tile Backsplash project.
The average costs of these supplies is $2.42 to $2.80 per square foot of a mosaic glass tile backsplash. Professional installers are also needed to install this type of backsplash because installation involves heavy duty equipment. The average cost of one hour of labor for a mosaic glass tile backsplash is $38 to $50. Most installation is completed in 10 to 15 hours depending on the size of a kitchen. Costs. In addition to the cost of a mosaic glass tile backsplash, consumers need to be wary of other expenses involved with installing this type of design in a kitchen. There are many supplies needed to install this item including primer, sealant and construction adhesive.
1 On average, installing a backsplash can range in price from $13 to as much as $24 per square foot. 2  This will not include the tile and supplies, but is for installation only. 3  For example, a 25 square foot space could cost anywhere from $325 to as much as $600. 1 Depending upon the quality of the tile, the prices can start at $1 per square foot and go as high as $25 per tile. 2  To have a customized backsplash design drawn up for you, some design companies may charge a consultation fee in order to get the job done.
The Glass Tile Backsplash calculator will provide you with up to date pricing for your area. Simply enter your zip code and the square footage, next click update and you will see a breakdown on what it should cost to have Glass Tile Backsplash installed in your home. Example: a 10 x 10 area = 100 square feet. 1 Try to budget and additional 7-15% more on top of what our calculator gives out for Glass Tile Backsplash costs. 2  Visit every supply house that sell your particular brand of Glass Tile Backsplash and try to negotiate a better price with each supplier – I save on average 20%.