All rights reserved. Types of contractions. When we think of a muscle contracting normally, we tend to think of the muscle shortening as it generates force. While it's true that this is a way of muscle contracting, there are many different ways that a muscle can generate force, as seen in Figure 1 below. In concentric contractions, the force generated by the muscle is always less than the muscle's maximum (P o). As the load the muscle is required to lift decreases, contraction velocity increases.
Multiunit smooth muscle. Multiunit smooth muscle undergoes rapid, graded contractions (e.g., sphincter pupillae of the eye). In this type of muscle, each fiber is individually innervated. This is similar to the motor units of skeletal muscle, except that the smooth muscle fibers of a unit are more localized. 
The terms cramp and spasm can be somewhat vague, and they are sometimes usedto include types of abnormal muscle activity other than sudden painful contraction. These include stiffness at rest, slow muscle relaxation, and spontaneous contractions of a muscle at rest (fasciculation). Muscle spasms and cramps. Muscle spasms and cramps are spontaneous, often painful muscle contractions. Most people are familiar with the sudden pain of a muscle cramp. The rapid, uncontrolled contraction, or spasm, happens unexpectedly, with either no stimulation or some trivially small one.
Muscle tissue is responsible for most types of body movement. I. Types of muscle: A. Striated muscle-skeletal musculature, striated in appearance under microscope. Cells are unbranched and are multinucleate syncytia. These muscles are capable of voluntary, quick, forceful contractions. As a result, neurotransmitters have to diffuse across this connective tissue layer and onto the plasmalemma of the smooth muscle cells in order to initiate the action potential that causes contraction. This is another reason for the slower contraction of smooth muscle cells.
Cardiac muscle is capable of involuntary, strong, rhythmic contractions. C. Smooth muscle-this muscle is not striated and is found in the walls of the visceral organs. Mononucleate cells. In addition to contraction, smooth muscle cells synthesize collagen, elastin, and proteoglycans (like fibroblasts). As a result, neurotransmitters have to diffuse across this connective tissue layer and onto the plasmalemma of the smooth muscle cells in order to initiate the action potential that causes contraction. This is another reason for the slower contraction of smooth muscle cells.
Muscle contraction is the activation of tension-generating sites within muscle fibers. In physiology, muscle contraction does not mean muscle shortening because muscle tension can be produced without changes in muscle length such as holding a heavy book or a dumbbell at the same position. Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. A muscle contraction is described as isometric if the muscle tension changes but the muscle length remains the same. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension
A fasciculation /fəˌsɪkjʉˈleɪʃən/ , or muscle twitch, is a small, local, involuntary muscle contraction and relaxation which may be visible under the skin. Deeper areas can be detected by EMG testing, though they can happen in any skeletal muscle in the body. Fasciculations arise as a result of spontaneous depolarization of a lower motor neuron leading to the synchronous contraction of all the skeletal muscle fibers within a single motor unit. An example of normal spontaneous depolarization is the constant contractions of cardiac muscle, causing the heart to beat
Contractions that permit the muscle to shorten are referred to as concentric contractions. An example of a concentric contraction in the raising of a weight during a bicep curl. In concentric contractions, the force generated by the muscle is always less than the muscle's maximum (P o). As the load the muscle is required to lift decreases, contraction velocity increases. This occurs until the muscle finally reaches its maximum contraction velocity, V max. By performing a series of constant velocity shortening contractions, a force-velocity relationship can be determined
The termination of muscle contraction is followed by muscle relaxation, which is a return of the muscle fibers to their low tension-generating state. Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. A muscle contraction is described as isometric if the muscle tension changes but the muscle length remains the same. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension