Fibrestream claimed that when BT replaced cables damaged or removed during these copper raids, the company was using inferior aluminium or thinner copper – a charge that BT refutes. “There is a lasting penalty,” said Fibrestream boss Guy Jarvis. BT has hit back at accusations that it's downgrading copper lines after they have been stolen by thieves targeting the valuable material.
Yet BT still deny there is a fault on the line, one engineer told me that replacing the whole aluminium wire with a copper one would be the only thing to fix this. However, BT will do everything in their power to stop this happening as it costs to much. It's strange how BT seem to have forgot all about the line rental I have paid in the last 30 years and the money they had from ISDN when I used it.
The problem is the old aluminium cable, complicated by the fact that after many weeks and visits from engineers, the actual fault was traced to an area where BT's manhole is not accessible because our local council built a raised flower bed on top of it many years ago. It's strange how BT seem to have forgot all about the line rental I have paid in the last 30 years and the money they had from ISDN when I used it.
8 installed carefully and according to best electrical practices. However, CO/ALR wiring devices have failed in laboratory tests when connected to aluminum wire typical of that installed in existing homes. The test conditions simulated actual use conditions; no “overstress” type of testing was used. Homes built before 1965 are unlikely to have aluminum branch circuit wiring. Electrical cables installed between 1965 and the mid 1970s in new homes, in additions, and as part of rewired/new circuits may contain aluminum wiring.
Aluminium has 61% of the conductivity of copper. The cross sectional area of an aluminium conductor must be 56% larger than copper for the same current carrying capability. The need to increase the thickness of aluminium wire restricts its use in several applications, such as in small motors and automobiles. Copper has been used in electric wiring since the invention of the electromagnet and the telegraph in the 1820s. The invention of the telephone in 1876 created further demand for copper wire as an electrical conductor. Copper is the electrical conductor in many categories of electrical wiring. Copper wire is used in power generation, power transmission, power distribution, telecommunications, electronics circuitry, and countless types of electrical equipment. Copper and its alloys are also used to make electrical contact
Attempts to replace copper with aluminium in building wire were curtailed in most countries when it was found that aluminium connections gradually loosened due to their inherent slow creep, combined with the high resistivity and heat generation of aluminium oxidation at joints. Copper has been used in electric wiring since the invention of the electromagnet and the telegraph in the 1820s. The invention of the telephone in 1876 created further demand for copper wire as an electrical conductor. Copper is the electrical conductor in many categories of electrical wiring. Copper wire is used in power generation, power transmission, power distribution, telecommunications, electronics circuitry, and countless types of electrical equipment. Copper and its alloys are also used to make electrical contac
This Site Might Help You. RE: How much does it cost to change from aluminum wiring to copper wiring? The house I want to buy is 1,464 sq ft but has aluminum wiring. How much does it cost to change it to copper. 
Aluminum wiring is a type of wiring used in houses, power grids, and airplanes. Aluminum provides a better conductivity to weight ratio than copper, and therefore is used in power wiring of some aircraft. Utility companies have used aluminum wire for electrical transmission in power grids since the early 1900s. It has cost and weight advantages over copper wires. Aluminum wire in transmission and distribution applications is still the preferred material today. In North American residential construction, aluminum wire was used to wire entire houses for a short time from the late 1960s to the late 1970s during a period of high copper prices.
click to enlarge. THE WIRE WORKS, THE CONNECTIONS ARE THE PROBLEM. Aluminum wire does a good job of conducting electricity (although you do have to use one size larger wire than copper for the same electrical load) and can do the same job for less money. So for a short while it was used in houses for regular wiring. So with many cycles of expansion and contraction, the aluminum wire flattens out and can become loose under ordinary screw heads, causing sparking. The second problem is that the skin of the wire can oxidize, reducing its electrical conductivity, particularly at a connection from an aluminum wire to a copper wire.