For example, if you caused an accident and chose limits of $15,000/$30,000, your Bodily Injury Liability insurance would pay up to $15,000 per person injured, up to a maximum total of $30,000 for all injuries in the entire accident. In this case, your Bodily Injury Liability insurance would pay the maximum amount of $20,000 for the other driver and the full $10,000 for the passenger. You, however, would be responsible for paying the extra $10,000 for the other driver's bills.
Liability coverage in an auto insurance policy helps cover the cost of damages you are responsible for as a result of an accident you cause. Liability coverage typically includes both property damage liability coverage and bodily injury liability coverage. Aside from merely paying for emergency services and hospital care, bodily injury liability insurance may also pay for any necessary follow-up doctor's visits and other associated costs, like having to buy crutches or a wheelchair while someone recovers. Lost income compensation.
Bodily injury liability (BI) pays, up to your policy limits, for injuries or death that you (the policyholder), or other drivers covered by your car insurance policy, are found responsible for after a motor vehicle accident. A few states do not require bodily injury liability coverage because they have what are known as no-fault laws. Under those rules, drivers must carry what is known as personal injury protection to pay for their own injuries or those of their passengers.
Recommended limits for bodily injury liability coverage. The Insurance Information Institute (III) and other insurance industry experts recommend bodily injury liability coverage of $100,000 per person and $300,000 per accident (referred to as 100/300 coverage). Bodily injury on the other hand does not cover you if you are injured in an accident. Bodily injury liability (BI or BIL) is for those that you cause injuries to when you are at fault in an accident. BI is mandatory in most states.
Bodily injury liability does NOT cover your injuries, only the injuries of others that you are liable for. For your personal injuries to be covered, you would need coverages such as personal injury protection (PIP) or medical payments coverage (MedPay). A few states do not require bodily injury liability coverage because they have what are known as no-fault laws. Under those rules, drivers must carry what is known as personal injury protection to pay for their own injuries or those of their passengers.
In most states auto insurance provides bodily injury liability, property damage liability, uninsured motorist bodily injury, underinsured motorist bodily injury, medical payments, collision and comprehensive coverages. (Each of these is defined in the student guide.). 
Policy limits for bodily injury liability are per person and per accident and coverage is written as such. For example, $25,000/$50,000 means that the maximum payout per person is $25,000, and the maximum payout for all people injured in one accident is $50,000. A few states do not require bodily injury liability coverage because they have what are known as no-fault laws. Under those rules, drivers must carry what is known as personal injury protection to pay for their own injuries or those of their passengers.
Bodily Injury Liability Insurance (BI) is a must on the roads. In most states purchasing a minimal amount of this coverage is a requirement. Bodily Injury Liability combined with Property Damage Liability coverage is the Auto Insurance policy basis. The amount of Bodily Injury Liability coverage you need depends on your personal assets. If you don't own a home and your annual income does not exceed $25,000, a 50,000/100,000 split limit may be enough.
Policy limits for bodily injury liability are per person and per accident and coverage is written as such. For example, $25,000/$50,000 means that the maximum payout per person is $25,000, and the maximum payout for all people injured in one accident is $50,000. This coverage may also be simply written as 25/50. Bodily injury on the other hand does not cover you if you are injured in an accident. Bodily injury liability (BI or BIL) is for those that you cause injuries to when you are at fault in an accident. BI is mandatory in most states.
This type of coverage generally has two limits—one limit applying to each person ($50,000, for example) and another limit applying to each accident (for example, $100,000). If you were at fault for the accident, the bodily injury liability coverage portion of your policy may help with the following costs: Aside from merely paying for emergency services and hospital care, bodily injury liability insurance may also pay for any necessary follow-up doctor's visits and other associated costs, like having to buy crutches or a wheelchair while someone recovers. Lost income compensation.