Save. For artists and comic book fans, working on comic books for a living may seem like a dream come true. But further analysis will bring up the question of pay. The answer to how much a comic book artist is paid depends on the terms of employment, your reputation as an artist, and your page output. A staffed career with a major publishing company such as DC or Marvel can net a $40,000 or higher salary, but a career in the big leagues typically follows a climb into reader regard. Most jobs in comic book art are on a freelance, pay-per-page basis.
Terms of Employment. The average salary of a comic book artist is, generally speaking, $20,000. But pay and benefits, if any, vary widely based on the company and terms of employment. A staffed career with a major publishing company such as DC or Marvel can net a $40,000 or higher salary, but a career in the big leagues typically follows a climb into reader regard. Most jobs in comic book art are on a freelance, pay-per-page basis.
But the average comic book is something like thirty pages, working out at $2,400-$4,000; this is more or less even over the short term. The major issue is that it might take a lot longer to put out a second novel than it would to put out a second issue of a comic, not necessarily that comic-book writers get paid more. I think most veteran comic book writers could finish a script in under, say, 100 hours–fast enough that quite a few authors write for 2-3 comic book series each month. In contrast, writing a publishable novel is incredibly laborious.
I think that a 32-page comic is much less work than a 80,000-90,000 word novel manuscript (which usually takes a year or more). I think most veteran comic book writers could finish a script in under, say, 100 hours–fast enough that quite a few authors write for 2-3 comic book series each month. In contrast, writing a publishable novel is incredibly laborious.
$34,750. The median annual wage for writers and authors was $55,940 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $27,770, and the top 10 percent earned more than $117,860.
$ 174000 average comic book writer salaries for job postings in san francisco ca are 35 % higher than average comic book writer salaries for job postings nationwide 
Comic book writers are not on salary. They get paid for each story they write. Depends on who you consider Hollywood writers.. For a good popular show, each writer receivers between 0.5 - 2 million per year (the show can have 20-40 writers!!!). … Of course, in comparison to how much the star actor makes per episode (not year), or how much the producers make, this is nothing.
The average salary of a documentary writer is 80,000 dollars a  year. Most writers work from home and do free lance projects. Those  that are in big companies can make even … more. Answered. Depends on who you consider Hollywood writers.. For a good popular show, each writer receivers between 0.5 - 2 million per year (the show can have 20-40 writers!!!). … Of course, in comparison to how much the star actor makes per episode (not year), or how much the producers make, this is nothing.
For more accurate salary details please enter your location above. The average yearly salary for Comic Book Writer is $15,300. If you are just beginning to work a new job as a Comic Book Writer, you could expect a starting pay rate of $12,600 annually. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. The average Comic Book Writer age in the United States is 38 years old. As it pertains to men vs women, 49% of Comic Book Writer are male in the United States, and 51% of the Comic Book Writer are female in the United States.
Well, I think that most comic book writers make substantially more in the short-term, too. I think the typical published novelist wrote for about 10 years before getting the first novel published. I think the process is substantially faster for comic book writers. I think most veteran comic book writers could finish a script in under, say, 100 hours–fast enough that quite a few authors write for 2-3 comic book series each month. In contrast, writing a publishable novel is incredibly laborious.