Domestic Long Hair Cat. The domestic long haired cat is a breed of cat with longer fur. The domestic long hair is actually the product of mixed breeding, over several generations. The domestic long hair cat personality makes it a great pet as it is a very social and friendly animal. The domestic long hair cat personality is in fact a contributing factor to its popularity. The domestic long haired cat does require regular grooming and must be bathed every one to two weeks
Personality ratings of 196 cats were made by their owners using a 5-point Likert scale anchored by 1: not at all and 5: a great deal with 12 items: timid, friendly, curious, sociable, obedient, clever, protective, active, independent, aggressive, bad-tempered, and emotional. 
Breed Characteristics. Most house cats crave your love and attention, but they prefer they get it on their terms instead of yours. Once you get to know your cat, you will understand his preferences. There are some breed-specific characteristics to consider. Persians, for example, typically love affection and are happy to sit on your lap. Because of their long hair, they need regular brushing; otherwise, their hair will mat. Although every cat has its own personality, all cats have some characteristics that some people find endearing and others find off-putting. Cats can be inquisitive, friendly, playful, active, loving and independent. Just remember who is boss; cats appreciate attention but only when they want i
All Bengals posses their own unique personality, but most Bengals will be very interactive and social, and they will carry on a conversation with you when you, and your Bengal, are in the mood. Bengals also like to play with other cats, dogs, and humans, love to explore, and many bengals also love to play in water. Bengals are breed to posses all the qualities/traits you come to expect from a domestic cat (loving personality and temperament), while Foundation Cat’s usually display qualities/traits that typically do not make for good pets (shy, nervous, will not use a litter box, etc.).
Although the Domestic Shorthair cat may be considered just a run-of-the-mill breed, it is my favorite cat breed. These cats all have vastly different personalities. They express their love for their owners, are devoted pets, and display their sense of humor in many, many ways. 
The Pixie-bob is a breed of domestic cat claimed by breed founder Carol Ann Brewer of Washington State to be the progeny of naturally occurring bobcat hybrids. 
Carnivore. Size: 28 in (71 cm). Weight: 5 to 20 lbs (2.3 to 9 kg). Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Domestic cats, no matter their breed, are all members of one species. Felis catus has had a very long relationship with humans. Ancient Egyptians may have first domesticated cats as early as 4,000 years ago. Plentiful rodents probably drew wild felines to human communities. 
Despite the fact that cats are the second-most popular pets in America, scientists are just now figuring out what makes one cat friendly and another a grouch. From pedigreed breeds to domestication, here are six secrets to a cat's personality. 
The domestic cat (Felis catus or Felis silvestris catus) is a small, usually furry, domesticated, and carnivorous mammal. They are often called housecats when kept as indoor pets or simply cats when there is no need to distinguish them from other felids and felines. Cats are often valued by humans for companionship and their ability to hunt vermin. Feral cats are domestic cats that were born in or have reverted to a wild state. They are unfamiliar with and wary of humans and roam freely in urban and rural areas. The numbers of feral cats is not known, but estimates of the US feral population range from 25 to 60 million.