By Michael Perry, M.D. Osteophytes is the medical term for bone spurs, the additional bone growths that your body may create for a number of reasons. Aging, arthritis, disc degeneration, traumatic injury, poor posture, overuse and other factors can cause your body to manufacture these excess bone formations. 
Watch: Lumbar Osteophytes (Bone Spurs) Video. The term bone spurs is really a bit of a misnomer, as the word spurs implies that these bony growths are spurring or poking some part of the spinal anatomy and causing pain. However, contrary to this implication, bone spurs are in fact smooth structures that form over a prolonged period of time
Calcaneal spur: A bony spur, also known as a heel spur, that projects from the back or underside of the heel bone (the calcaneus) and that may make walking painful. 
scleral spur the posterior lip of the venous sinus of the sclera to which most of the fibers of the trabecular reticulum of the iridocorneal angle and the meridional fibers of the ciliary muscle are attached. Called also metatarsal spur. 4. tracheal spur, the ridge of tracheal cartilage that separates the beginning of the right bronchus from the beginnings of the left one. spur veins. subcutaneous veins visible over the ventral part of the chest of a horse (superficial thoracic vein).
The following are health and medical definitions of terms that appear in the Bone Spurs article. Ankylosing: Having a tendency to stiffen and fuse together. Ankylosing spondylitis: A form of chronic inflammation of the spine and the sacroiliac joi... Arms: An appendage in anatomy and in clinical trials. 
Definition. A heel spur is a bony projection on the sole (plantar) region of the heel bone (also known as the calcaneous). This condition may accompany or result from severe cases of inflammation to the structure called plantar fascia. Heel spurs are a common foot problem resulting from excess bone growth on the heel bone. The bone growth is usually located on the underside of the heel bone, extending forward to the toes. One explanation for this excess production of bone is a painful tearing of the plantar fascia connected between the toes and heel
Synonyms: calcar. The definition information for spur is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students. 
In rare instances, surgery may be recommended if the spur is creating serious physical problems, such as prohibiting walking, and the spur is not responding to other forms of treatment. Bone spur is a general term used to describe a knobby, abnormal bone growth. Bone spurs are also known as osteophytes. Scientists believe bone spurs occur because of osteoarthritis or when the body tries to heal itself after a trauma by replacing bone. The growth is usually small and often undetected. 
The medical term for bone spurs is osteophytes, and they represent an enlargement of the normal bony structure. Basically, osteophytes are a radiographic marker of spinal degeneration (aging), which means that they show up on X-rays or MRI scans and are by and large a normal finding as we age. The term bone spurs is really a bit of a misnomer, as the word spurs implies that these bony growths are spurring or poking some part of the spinal anatomy and causing pain.