It means that it won't get better, it will only get worse. You either have to get a lung transplant, or die.   Answer   NO! Lung transplant is NOT a treatment fo … r lung cancer. Terminal means causing, ending in, or approaching death according to the American Heritage Dictionary.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The parenchyma are the functional cells of a tissue or organ. A small parenchymal lung opacity is a small area that is cloudy, opaque. It's also referred to as a ground glass opacity. Some diseases that have ground glass opacities as the predominant lesion are three varieties of pneumonia and Pulmonary Alveolar Proteinosis. 
Full Definition of OPACITY. 1. a: obscurity of sense: unintelligibleness b: the quality or state of being mentally obtuse: dullness. 2. : the quality or state of a body that makes it impervious to the rays of light; broadly: the relative capacity of matter to obstruct the transmission of radiant energy. 3. : an opaque spot in a normally transparent structure (as the lens of the eye). See opacity defined for English-language learners. 
Parenchymal means related to the parenchyma, and parenchyma means the bulk of an organ. So the lung parenchyma is the main part of the lung, and the thyroid parenchyma is the … main mass of the thyroid. 15 people found this useful. Answer   Parenchyma is the functional part of an organ (while stroma is the supporting tissue). Echogenicity means ability to produce an echo. So parenchymal echogenicity … means the ability of the functional part of an organ to produce an echo (for ultrasound examination for example).
Hi, the opacity as it is in the apical portion of the lung, its likely to be due to tuberculosis, hence the apicolordotic view, means the ordinary X rays cannot visualize this area of the lung, so this is a special view from top. This could also be fibrous tissue from an old lesion. A well defined opacity in lung can be due to pneumonia, cancer, tuberculosis, a benign lung nodule, or due to an infarct. Less well defined or diffuse opacities are usually multiple in nature and often due to inflammation, tuberculosis (military type), asbestosis, silicosis, auto-immune diseases etc.
Parenchymal means related to the parenchyma, and parenchyma means the bulk of an organ. So the lung parenchyma is the main part of the lung, and the thyroid parenchyma is the … main mass of the thyroid. You either have to get a lung transplant, or die.   Answer   NO! Lung transplant is NOT a treatment fo … r lung cancer. Terminal means causing, ending in, or approaching death according to the American Heritage Dictionary.
The ILO Classification system pertains to pulmonary parenchymal abnormalities (small and large opacities), pleural changes (pleural plaques, calcification, and diffuse pleural thickening) and other features associated, or sometimes confused, with occupational lung disease. ILO Classification is a system of classifying radiographs (chest X-rays) for persons with pneumoconiosis. The intent was to provide a means for describing and recording systematically the radiographic abnormalities in the chest provoked by the inhalation of dusts
A well defined opacity in lung can be due to pneumonia, cancer, tuberculosis, a benign lung nodule, or due to an infarct. Less well defined or diffuse opacities can be due to inflammation, tuberculosis (military type), asbestosis, silicosis, auto-immune diseases etc. A well defined opacity in lung can be due to pneumonia, cancer, tuberculosis, a benign lung nodule, or due to an infarct. Less well defined or diffuse opacities are usually multiple in nature and often due to inflammation, tuberculosis (military type), asbestosis, silicosis, auto-immune diseases etc.