In an NPN transistor, current flows from the collector to the emitter. In a PNP transistor, current flows from the emitter to the collector. How they turn on and off is also different. An NPN transistor is powered on when a sufficient current is supplied to the base of the transistor. A current input into the base of the transistor allows for a much larger current across the emitter and collector leads. NPN and PNPs are exactly the same in their function, they provide amplification and/or switching capability. So technically, they achieve and do the same exact thing.
A transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify and switch electronic signals and electrical power. It is composed of semiconductor material with at least three terminals for connection to an external circuit. Collector current is approximately β (common-emitter current gain) times the base current. It is typically greater than 100 for small-signal transistors but can be smaller in transistors designed for high-power applications. Unlike the field-effect transistor (see below), the BJT is a low–input-impedance device.
NPN Transistor. An NPN transistor receives positive voltage at the collector terminal. This positive voltage to the collector allows current to flow across from the collector to emitter, given that there is a sufficient base current to turn the transistor on. A current input into the base of the transistor allows for a much larger current across the emitter and collector leads. NPN and PNPs are exactly the same in their function, they provide amplification and/or switching capability. So technically, they achieve and do the same exact thing.
Answer: At its core, a transistor is an electronic component used in a circuit to control a large amount of current or voltage with a small amount of voltage or current. It does so by sandwiching one semiconductor between two other semiconductors. Post. Share. There are essentially two basic types of point-contact transistors, the npn transistor and the pnp transistor, where the n and p stand for negative and positive, respectively. The only difference between the two is the arrangement of bias voltages.
Part of the Electronics glossary: The transistor, invented by three scientists at the Bell Laboratories in 1947, rapidly replaced the vacuum tube as an electronic signal regulator. A transistor regulates current or voltage flow and acts as a switch or gate for electronic signals. A transistor consists of three layers of a semiconductor material, each capable of carrying a current. A semiconductor is a material such as germanium and silicon that conducts electricity in a semi-enthusiastic way
Medical Definition of TRANSISTOR. : a solid-state electronic device that is used to control the flow of electricity in electronic equipment and consists of a small block of a semiconductor (as germanium) with at least three electrodes. Full Definition of TRANSISTOR. 1. : a solid-state electronic device that is used to control the flow of electricity in electronic equipment and usually consists of a small block of a semiconductor (as germanium) with at least three electrodes. 2. : a transistorized radio.
Transistors are devices that control the movement of electrons, and consequently, electricity. They work something like a water faucet -- not only do they start and stop the flow of a current, but they also control the amount of the current. The point of contact was called a junction, thus the name junction transistor. With an electrical current applied to the center layer (called the base), electrons will move from the N-type side to the P-type side. The initial small trickle acts as a switch that allows much larger current to flow.
A bipolar transistor has terminals labeled base, collector, and emitter. A small current at the base terminal (that is, flowing between the base and the emitter) can control or switch a much larger current between the collector and emitter terminals. Collector current is approximately β (common-emitter current gain) times the base current. It is typically greater than 100 for small-signal transistors but can be smaller in transistors designed for high-power applications. Unlike the field-effect transistor (see below), the BJT is a low–input-impedance device.