Scheduling a trim every 3-4 months or 12-16 weeks will help to keep your hair healthy and strong. Scheduling a trim every three to four months will help maintain the shape of your style and remove naturally splitting ends. Hair grows about 1/4 to 1/2 inch a month. If ends are clipped regularly, you will only remove about 1/4 inch or less which will leave you with noticeable growth and length retention. “Trim about an 1/2 in every 8-10 weeks between the months of October – March”. I believe its safe to say this advice is more applicable in some climates more than others. If you live in areas with moderate climates more frequent trims may not be necessary. Just pay attention to your hair it will tell you what it needs.
If you color or highlight your long hair, it is even more likely to have damage. Regular haircuts will help keep your hair strong and healthy. Long hair should be trimmed at least every 8 to 12 weeks. If you notice more breakage or split ends, it could be cut as frequently as every 6 to 8 weeks. Be specific with your hair stylist when you're getting your haircut. Knowing how often to cut your hair has a lot to do with your hair goals and the chemical processes you put your hair through on a regular basis. This guide should help you set up your own haircut schedule, without making you want to pull your hair out.
In order to really grow your hair out you need to give it time to grow. It's true healthy hair is important but most people make the mistake of trimming it way to often thus no growth and it never will at a rate of ever 6 weeks or so. I deal with this everyday being a stylist who specializes in long hair. Or it will be worthless to grow your hair out resulting in long split ends. If you do almost nothing to your hair, I'd say every 2 months. Make sure that you get almost all your split ends off when you get it trimmed, or they will just keep growing longer or breaking off.
Short hair should be trimmed every 4 to 8 weeks to keep the shape of your haircut fresh. As previously mentioned, if you are trying to grow your hair out, you will want to consider haircuts every 6 to 12 weeks. Knowing how often to cut your hair has a lot to do with your hair goals and the chemical processes you put your hair through on a regular basis. This guide should help you set up your own haircut schedule, without making you want to pull your hair out.
If your hair is already damaged, start off trimming between 3/4 inch and 1 inch every eight weeks and gradually work your way down to only trimming 1/2 inch when you've cut off most of the damaged area. Healthy African American hair can be trimmed a mere 1/4 inch every eight weeks. 
The frequency of a haircut depends on the style and health of the hair. Some stylists will allow people to make two appointments: a consultation and an appointment to actually get a haircut. Long hair should be trimmed every 6 weeks. The quality of a person's hair often dictates how often it should get cut. Some people may not get a haircut when they are trying to grow their hair long. This is a mistake, as the hair will often end up looking unhealthy. Subtle trims do not slow hair growth. People with thicker hair should also generally get their hair cut more frequently than those with finer hair.
Although you should have your hair trimmed regularly, some people may need it more often than others. If you have short hair, it's recommended that you get a cut every 4-6 weeks. If you're growing your hair long, don't forget you still also need to have regular trims – growing long hair shouldn’t mean you should skip the hairdresser altogether! Trims every 6-8 weeks ensure hair grows out evenly and healthy. If you color your hair or use any other type of chemical treatment on it, this usually results in drier hair. Dry hair tends to break easier and develop more split ends, meaning you’ll need more frequent trims (every 4-6 weeks) even if your hair is long. Whether you have long hair or short hair, we should all be getting our hair cut regularly to keep it looking great. Find out how often you should be visiting the salon or barber.
Long hair is delicate hair; it’s been on your head for years, and it needs gentle treatment. It also needs the occasional trim to stay healthy and free of split ends, but you can get away with longer periods between cuts. Mark your calendar for an overall cut every 10 to 12 weeks. Long curls, on the other hand, can often go as long as 12 to 14 weeks without a cut because curls don’t reveal their whole length as straight or wavy locks do. Keep a close eye on your ends if you’re sporting long curls or a full Pam Grier natural cut; breakage and split ends can affect all hair textures.