For example, the phrase Every Good Boy Does Fine can be used to help music students remember the notes of the staff, E, G, B, D, and F. The name Roy G. Biv is often used to memorize the order of colors in a rainbow (or other light spectrum) -- Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo, Violet. While initials of words are commonly used as mnemonic devices, rhyming words and poems can also be used to memorize information. Furthermore, images can be associated with words or phrases to help memorize them.
Mnemonic. A mnemonic, or mnemonic device, is any learning technique that aids information retention. Mnemonics aim to translate information into a form that the human brain can retain better than its original form. GCIDE (3.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: mnemonic (n.). An abbreviated word that resembles the full word, used so as to be easily recognized; as, the CIDE uses ... tags as mnemnonics for an italicised word or field.
Princeton's WordNet (2.00 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: mnemonic (adj). a device (such as a rhyme or acronym) used to aid recall. mnemonic, mnemotechnic, mnemotechnical (adj). of or relating to or involved the practice of aiding the memory. mnemonic device. GCIDE (3.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: mnemonic (n.). An abbreviated word that resembles the full word, used so as to be easily recognized; as, the CIDE uses ... tags as mnemnonics for an italicised word or field.
Mnemonics can also be used in acquiring foreign language vocabulary. A list of some Italian vocabulary words (from Mastropieri & Scruggs, 1991, p. 24) and corresponding mnemonic strategies are given in Table 1. Before you read, cover up the keywords and strategies and see if you can come up with your own. Mnemonic strategies do not represent a philosophy of education. We do not use, or recommend the use of, mnemonic strategies because they are compatible with someone's particular philosophy or because they are a part of someone's theory about what education should be.
When you see the word cabina, you should be able to recall this image and thereby retrieve the meaning phone booth.. Students use First letter mnemonics when they take the first letters in each item in a list and form a word that relates to the main idea of the list. 
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός (mnēmonikos), meaning of memory, or relating to memory and is related to Mnemosyne (remembrance), the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology. Both of these words are derived from μνήμη (mnēmē), remembrance, memory. Mnemonics in antiquity were most often considered in the context of what is today known as the art of memory. Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of memory: the natural memory and the artificial memory.
1. assisting or intended to assist the memory. 2. pertaining to mnemonics or to memory. 3. something intended to assist the memory, as a verse or formula. 4. a symbol, acronym, or other short form used as a computer code or function, as in programming. mnēmonikos mnēmonikós of = memory-mnēmon + -mindful-ikos ]. ic•mne′mon•i•cal, ly. adv mnemonic. adj. 1. aiding or meant to aid one's memory. 2. (Education) of or relating to memory or mnemonics. n.
A mnemonic (pronounced nemonic) is a pattern that can be used as an aid for memorizing information. Most often, this pattern consists of letters or words. While initials of words are commonly used as mnemonic devices, rhyming words and poems can also be used to memorize information. Furthermore, images can be associated with words or phrases to help memorize them.
In this article, we describe the need for effective memory strategies for school learning. Next, we provide a brief description of what mnemonic strategies are-and what they are not. Following that, we describe how you can use these powerful learning tools to enhance the school success of your own students. Mnemonic strategies do not represent a philosophy of education. We do not use, or recommend the use of, mnemonic strategies because they are compatible with someone's particular philosophy or because they are a part of someone's theory about what education should be.
A mnemonic (. : /nəˈmɒnɨk/ , : /nɛˈmɑːnɪk/ the first m is silent), mnemonic device, or memory device is any learning technique that aids information retention in the human memory. Mnemonics aim to translate information into a form that the brain can retain better than its original form. Both of these words are derived from μνήμη (mnēmē), remembrance, memory. Mnemonics in antiquity were most often considered in the context of what is today known as the art of memory. Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of memory: the natural memory and the artificial memory.