Yes, worms are considered a meat because of its high source of protein. 
Vermicompost, or castings, is worm manure. Worm castings are considered by many in horticulture to be the very best soil amendment available. The nutrient content of castings is dependent on the material fed to the worms--and worms are commonly fed materials with high nutrient content, such as food waste and manures. Worms have also been used to manage agricultural wastes such as dairy manure. They convert waste into worm manure (also known as worm castings), a nutrient-rich, biologically beneficial soil product. Vermicomposting is the use of worms as a composting method to produce vermicompost.
Worm Classification. Worms are in a very broad category that is not officially classified in any scientific sense. While most worms are limbless invertebrates, some worms are actually reptiles or amphibians. Many other animals called worms are simply insect larvae that have yet to metamorphose into their adult stage. 1 Earthworms are also an unofficial broad classification of worms. 2  Hundreds of different worm species in 16 families are considered earthworms. 3  Earthworms are also divided into three subcategories depending on their ecosystem.
In biology, worm refers to an obsolete taxon (vermes) used by Carolus Linnaeus and Jean-Baptiste Lamarck for all non-arthropod invertebrate animals, and stems from the Old English word wyrm. Several other worms may be free-living, or non parasitic. There are worms that live in freshwater, seawater, and even on the seashore. Ecologically, worms form an important link in the food chains in virtually all the ecosystems of the world.
An earthworm is a tube-shaped, segmented worm found in the phylum Annelida. They are commonly found living in soil, feeding on live and dead organic matter. Its digestive system runs through the length of its body. It conducts respiration through its skin. 
A worm is similar to a virus by design and is considered to be a sub-class of a virus. Worms spread from computer to computer, but unlike a virus, it has the capability to travel without any human action. The biggest danger with a worm is its capability to replicate itself on your system, so rather than your computer sending out a single worm, it could send out hundreds or thousands of copies of itself, creating a huge devastating effect.
In everyday language, the term worm is also applied to various other living forms such as larvae, insects, centipedes, shipworms (teredo worms), or even some vertebrates (creatures with a backbone) such as blindworms and caecilians. Worms can be divided into several groups, but are still technically decomposers. Several other worms may be free-living, or non parasitic. There are worms that live in freshwater, seawater, and even on the seashore. Ecologically, worms form an important link in the food chains in virtually all the ecosystems of the world.
Jumbo Worms-These worms, generally considered those 10 or longer, have been used since the 1970's. Used to target large bass in western reservoirs in California or Mexico they seem to have made a move into eastern and south eastern waters. The first worms were three hook worms, that is, they had three hooks harnessed or threaded through the body. A design still available today and sometimes used as a swimming worm. The first mold was created from, believe it or not, a live worm.
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. 