innate immunity, native immunity, natural immunity. natural immunity resulting from the genetic makeup of the host, before exposure to an antigen. maternal immunity. that acquired by the neonate by transplacental transfer of immunoglobulins or from ingestion of colostrum or via the yolk sac in the case of birds. natural immunity, a usually inherent, nonspecific form of immunity to a specific disease. Kinds of natural immunity include individual immunity, racial immunity, and species immunity. Also called genetic immunity, innate immunity. Compare acquired immunity. See also active immunity passive immunity
Immunity to a disease is achieved through the presence of antibodies to that disease in a person’s system. Antibodies are proteins produced by the body to neutralize or destroy toxins or disease-carrying organisms. Antibodies are disease-specific. 
A healthy immune system enables the body to resist illnesses. The presence of microbes and antigens inside of the body usually triggers the body's immune response. Leukocytes are an important component of blood and a key player in the body's immune system. Fortunately, there are a lot of natural immunity boosters, so it's not hard to get the nutrition you need to keep your immune system functioning properly. Vitamin C is one of the easiest ones to add into your diet, as is vitamin E and calcium.
Natural passive immunity. Definition. noun. A passive immunity acquired by the fetus or newborn from the mother via the placental transfer of antibodies during pregnancy and via breast milk. This type of immunity is short-lived, lasting the first six months of the newborn's life. Supplement
Noun. 1. natural immunity-immunity to disease that occurs as part of an individual's natural biologic makeup. innate immunity. immunity, resistance - (medicine) the condition in which an organism can resist disease. 
Innate immunity, or nonspecific immunity, is the natural resistances with which a person is born. It provides resistances through several physical, chemical and cellular approaches. Microbes first encounter the epithelial layers, physical barriers that line skin and mucous membranes. 
Active and Passive Immunity. Naturally acquired active immunity occurs when the person is exposed to a live pathogen, develops the disease, and becomes immune as a result of the primary immune response. Artificially acquired active immunity can be induced by a vaccine, a substance that contains the antigen. | Share | Cite. Naturally acquired active immunity occurs when the person is exposed to a live pathogen, develops the disease, and becomes immune as a result of the primary immune response.
Natural immunity is the non-specific immunity that a person has. Basically, the body recognizes something as not self and it attacks it, no matter what it is. Acquired immun … ity is when you are exposed to a specific illness and the body attacks it and forms specific antibodies for that particular illness. One of the major properties of a healthy and effective immune system is the ability to differentiate between self and non-self. Natural immunity confers that ability upon an infant to some degree, allowing his immune system to identify and fight threats.