1 Legumes: legumes and foods that inhibit the thyroid hormone can be very damaging to those with an O positive blood type. 2  People with this blood type tend to have a low level of thyroid hormone in their system and frequently suffer from thyroid trouble.
Blood Types and the Population. O positive is the most common blood type. Not all ethnic groups have the same mix of these blood types. Hispanic people, for example, have a relatively high number of O’s, while Asian people have a relatively high number of B’s.
Nearly all types of grains are considered bad for people with type O blood on the Blood Type diet. You're advised to avoid all forms of wheat, corn, oats, bulgur, pumpernickel and semolina, as well as any products containing these as ingredients.
Since most people are unaware of their blood types, let alone what foods are evolutionarily inappropriate for them to eat, it is reasonable to assume that on most days most people eat the wrong foods for their blood type (e.g., Type O eating wheat, Type A eating meat, etc.).
1 Grains and dairy: people with this blood type do not digest grains and dairy products well. 2  Their metabolism is often slow to digest these foods, which can lead to discomfort. 3  High levels of grain can also spike the body's insulin rate, which will further slow your metabolism.
People with type B positive blood shouldn't eat ketchup. Not all blood types are the same. There are four types of blood, A, B, AB and O, and the presence or absence of certain antigens is what determines your blood type, according to the American Red Cross. Based on these differences, Dr. Peter D’Adamo created the Blood Type Diet, which is often called the Eat Right For Your Type Diet.
A person's blood type is based on the antigens found in the blood. These antigens, A and B are found on the surface of the blood cells and are uses as markers in the body. Type O blood does not have A or B antigens on the red blood cells, but contains both types in the plasma.
Since most people are unaware of their blood types (let alone what foods are evolutionarily inappropriate for them to eat), it is reasonable to assume that on most days most people eat the wrong foods for their blood type (e.g., Type O's eating wheat, Type A's eating meat, etc.).