For other uses, see Homo (disambiguation) . Homo is the genus that comprises the species Homo sapiens, which includes modern humans, as well as several extinct species classified as ancestral to or closely related to modern humans—as for examples Homo habilis and Homo neanderthalensis. 
Humans (Homo sapiens) are in the genus Homo, the kingdom Animalia and the domain Eukaryota. Genus is after family but before species. An example of a genus would be canis (canine, dog). Here is a website with information and a table on classification, including genus: http://www.abelard.org/briefings/taxonomy.php.
There are more than six species in the genus Homo (human). So far, the species found that are related to Homo include: H. antecessor, H. cepranensis, H. erectus, H. ergaster, … H. floresiensis, H. gautengensis, H. habilis, H. heidelbergensis, H. neanderthalensis, H. rhodesiensis, and H. rudolfensis. Some scientist believe there to be a human subspecies called H. sapiens idaltu. Genus is after family but before species. An example of a genus would be canis (canine, dog). Here is a website with information and a table on classification, including genus: http://www.abelard.org/briefings/taxonomy.php.
I need to know why humans belong to the Family (Hominidae), the Genus (Homo), and the Species (Homo Sapiens)... Report Abuse. Hominidae is the family, which means there's a sister genus in there besides ours. We're Homo, which means there's a sister species in there besides us. We're Homo sapiens, which means Intelligent Human.. The other Homo besides us, at 200 thousand or so to 28 thousand or so, in Eurasia, was Homo neanderthalensis (better known simply as Neanderthals)
Answers. Best Answer: Humans belong to the order Primates and the genus Homo. Here is the full classification of Homo sapiens sapiens: Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Order: Primates Family: Hominidae Genus: Homo Species: H. sapiens Subspecies: H. s. sapiens. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human
For example, two animals that belong to the same family and genus are more closely related than two animals that simply belong to the same family. Here are two examples of the Linnaean taxonomic system of classification, for humans and armadillos: You may see many of these other sublevel taxa listed in the taxonomic tree of an organism. The classification levels become more specific towards the bottom. Many organisms belong to the same kingdom, fewer belong to the same phylum, and so on, with species being the most specific classification. A species is one group of genetically distinct, interbreeding organisms.
Humans are Homo Sapiens. We belong to the genus Homo and our unique species is Sapiens!!! Mules cannot belong to a species of their own because they are  sterile hybrids, but they do belong to both of the species that  horses and donkeys belong to. These species … are Equus caballus and  Equus asinus.
Human taxonomy is the classification of the species Homo sapiens (Latin : knowing man), or the modern hominin, humans. Homo, the human genus, includes the past genetic tree of humanity, with Neanderthals, Denisovans, and other extinct species of hominin. H. sapiens is the only surviving species of the genus Homo. Extinct Homo species include archaic humans. Current humans have been designated as subspecies Homo sapiens sapiens, differentiated from the direct ancestor, Homo sapiens idaltu. When Linnaeus defined humans as Homo sapiens in 1758, they were the only members of the genus Homo. The first other species to be classified a Homo was H. neanderthalensis, classified in 1864. Since then, ten additional extinct species have been classified as Homo.