DrugFacts: Stimulant ADHD Medications: Methylphenidate and Amphetamines. Stimulant medications including amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) and methylphenidate (e.g., Ritalin and Concerta) are often prescribed to treat children, adolescents, or adults diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). 
Methylphenidate hydrochloride (Ritalin ®) is a prescription medication used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It is also used to treat narcolepsy. 
Last reviewed on RxList 4/24/2015. Ritalin (methylphenidate) is a central nervous system stimulant prescribed for treating narcolepsy (uncontrollable sleepiness), and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Ritalin is available as a generic drug. 
Uses of This Medicine. Methylphenidate is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It belongs to the group of medicines called central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. Methylphenidate is also used to treat narcolepsy. Narcolepsy is an uncontrollable desire for sleep or a sudden attack of deep sleep
A: Brand name Ritalin (methylphenidate) is manufactured by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Ritalin is a stimulant medication that affects the central nervous system. It is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), attention deficit disorder (ADD), and narcolepsy. Ritalin helps to increase attention and control symptoms such as hyperactivity and impulsiveness. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first licensed methylphenidate hydrochloride in 1955 for treating what was formerly known as hyperactivity, attention-deficit disorder or ADD. The drug was commonly prescribed in the 1990s when the diagnosis of ADHD became better known and accepted.
Descriptions. Methylphenidate is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It belongs to the group of medicines called central nervous system (CNS) stimulants. Methylphenidate is also used to treat narcolepsy. Narcolepsy is an uncontrollable desire for sleep or a sudden attack of deep sleep. 
Methylphenidate (trade names Concerta, Methylin, Medikinet, Ritalin, Equasym XL, Quillivant XR, Metadate) is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine and piperidine classes that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Methylphenidate is produced in the United States, Mexico, Spain, Sweden, Pakistan, and India. Ritalin is also sold in Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, Spain, Germany and other European countries (although in much lower volumes than in the United States).
Ritalin is the brand name of the drug methylphenidate hydrochloride. Doctors prescribe Ritalin to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and a sleep disorder known as narcolepsy. Ritalin is in a class of medications called central nervous system stimulants (CNS stimulants). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first licensed methylphenidate hydrochloride in 1955 for treating what was formerly known as hyperactivity, attention-deficit disorder or ADD. The drug was commonly prescribed in the 1990s when the diagnosis of ADHD became better known and accepted.
Dexmethylphenidate (trade names Focalin, Attenade; also known as d-threo-methylphenidate (D-TMP)) is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine and piperidine classes that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. 