In Dutch, the van is not a middle name. It's called a  voor voegsel, a word for which I find no satisfactory English translation*. The van means from or of, and it appears in a significant minority of Dutch names.
Habitational name for someone who lived in a place named Ainsworth near Manchester, from the Old English given name Ægen ægen and worþ meaning. ENCLOSURE Aitken, Scottish. English derived from the medieval given Name, atkin a diminutive OF. adam
For each Germanic surname in this glossary we have provided the English meaning, which may or may not be a surname in English. This is not a list of equivalent names, but rather a sampling of English translations or meanings of German names.
A surname is part of a personal name that is passed from either or both parents to their offspring. Customs on the format of surnames change from region to region and their use has changed over time.
From a surname which was originally derived from either a place name meaning east town in Old English or from the given name AEðELSTAN. æðELSTAN astor M (English). Rare from a surname derived From occitan astur meaning. HAWK astra F (English). rare
Derived from the medieval given name Atkin, a diminutive of ADAM. AINSWORTH English. Habitational name for someone who lived in a place named Ainsworth near Manchester, from the Old English given name Ægen ægen and worþ meaning. enclosure
ASHTON m & f English. From a surname which was originally derived from a place name which meant ash tree town in Old English. ASIA (1) f English (Modern), Italian (Modern). From the name of the continent, which is perhaps derived from Akkadian asu, meaning east.
Patronymic surnames (those that come from a male given name) include Benson (“the son of Ben”), Davis, Dawson, Evans, Harris, Harrison, Jackson, Jones (Welsh for John), Nicholson, Richardson, Robinson, Rogers, Simpson, Stephenson, Thompson, Watson, and Wilson.
From the English word for the tree, derived from Old English aespe ... [æspe]. MORE aston & m F (English). Rare from a surname which was originally derived from either a place name meaning east town In Old english or from the given NAME. aeðelstan æðelstan