Osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative arthritis, may affect one or more joints anywhere in the body. The joints most often affected are the hands and the weight-bearing joints of the lower extremities (knees, hips, feet). In osteoarthritis, there is a steady worsening and decline of joint cartilage.
Ost…. Symptoms of osteoarthritis vary, depending on which joints are affected and how severely they are affected. However, the most common symptoms are pain and stiffness, particularly first thing in the morning or after resting. Affected joints may get swollen, especially after extended activity. 
People with osteoarthritis usually have joint pain and stiffness. Unlike some other forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis affects only joint function. It does not affect skin tissue, the lungs, the eyes, or the blood vessels. The base of the thumb joint also is commonly affected by osteoarthritis. Knees: The knees are among the joints most commonly affected by osteoarthritis. Symptoms of knee osteoarthritis include stiffness, swelling, and pain, which make it hard to walk, climb, and get in and out of chairs and bathtubs.
Joints Often Affected by Osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis is a condition in which the cartilage that protects and cushions the joints breaks down over time. Eventually, the bones-formerly separated by the cartilage-rub against each other. This results in damage to the tissue and bone and causes painful joint symptoms. Osteoarthritis, sometimes called degenerative joint disease or osteoarthrosis, is the most common form of arthritis. It most often affects the joints of the spine, fingers, thumbs, hips, knees, or toes. By Healthwise Staff.
1 The joints glowing red in the diagram are those most commonly affected by osteoarthritis – the knees, hips, hands, neck and lower spine. 2  OA is the most common form of arthritis, and develops over months or years. 1 OA is the most common form of arthritis, and develops over months or years. 2  Osteoarthritis affects the entire joint, including the bones, cartilage, tendons, ligaments and muscles. 3  OA symptoms are found in more than half of people aged over 65, but can occur in younger people.
About OA. People with osteoarthritis usually experience joint pain and stiffness. The most commonly affected joints are those at the ends of the fingers (closest to the nail), thumbs, neck, lower back, knees, and hips. Osteoarthritis affects different people differently. 
Rheumatoid arthritis occurs when your immune system mistakenly attacks the lining of your joints, causing a painful swelling that can eventually result in joint deformity. While both rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis can affect the small joints of the hand, there are differences. Rheumatoid arthritis tends to affect the middle joints of the fingers and the joints where the fingers attach to the hand. Osteoarthritis more commonly affects the joints at the ends of the fingers and at the base of the thumb. In rheumatoid arthritis, the same joints usually are affected on both sides of the body. This symmetry doesn't typically occur in osteoarthritis, so it's common for only one hand or knee to be painful. 
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the entire joint involving the cartilage, joint lining, ligaments, and underlying bone. The breakdown of these tissues eventually leads to pain and joint stiffness. The joints most commonly affected are the knees, hips, and those in the hands and spine. 
People with osteoarthritis usually experience joint pain and stiffness. The most commonly affected joints are those at the ends of the fingers (closest to the nail), thumbs, neck, lower back, knees, and hips. Osteoarthritis affects different people differently. The base of the thumb joint also is commonly affected by osteoarthritis. Knees: The knees are among the joints most commonly affected by osteoarthritis. Symptoms of knee osteoarthritis include stiffness, swelling, and pain, which make it hard to walk, climb, and get in and out of chairs and bathtubs.