Eusebius, in Onomasticon, here identifies Shechem with Shalem; but see SHALEM. To the East of the city Jacob pitched his tent in a parcel of ground which he had bought from Hamor, Shechem's father (Genesis 33:19). Here also he raised an altar and called it El-Elohe-Israel, God, the God of Israel (Genesis 33:20). So he sent him out of the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. Joshua 17:7 The border of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethath, which is before Shechem. The border went along to the right hand, to the inhabitants of En Tappuah.
Shechem, from the Hebrew word for shoulder, was a city and district in central Israel, in the hill country of Ephraim (see Bible Places). Built on the slope, or shoulder, of Mount Ebal, the city was the site of the first capital of the northern kingdom of Israel. Shechem was the location of numerous events of Bible History 1  : The place is first mentioned when Abram (see Abraham) arrived in what would become the land of Israel. 2  The Lord appeared to him there and promised the land to his descendants.
Shechem /ˈʃɛkəm/ , also spelled Sichem (/ˈsɪkəm/ ; Hebrew: שְׁכֶם / שְׁכָם, š(ə)ḫem. Šəḵem, shoulder), was a Canaanite city mentioned in the Amarna letters, and is mentioned in the Hebrew Bible as an Israelite city of the tribe of Manasseh and the first capital of the Kingdom of Israel. Shechem is also the location of Jacob's Well, where John 4:5–6 describes Jesus ' meeting with the woman of Samaria. Some of its inhabitants were of the number of the Samaritans who believed in Jesus when he tarried two days in the neighborhood.
Genesis 12:6 - And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite [was] then in the land. Genesis 33:18 - And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which [is] in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city. Genesis 37:12 - And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. A city of refuge. Joshua 20:7 - And they appointed Kedesh in Galilee in mount Naphtali, and Shechem in mount Ephraim, and Kirjatharba, which [is] Hebron, in the mountain of Judah.
Genesis 33:18 Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Paddan Aram; and encamped before the city. So he sent him out of the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. Joshua 17:7 The border of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethath, which is before Shechem. The border went along to the right hand, to the inhabitants of En Tappuah.
Amidst the mountains of Shomron (Samaria) is a four-thousand year old city named Shechem. Very few biblical locales have as rich a history as this storied city. In fact, when the first Jew arrived in the Holy Land, Shechem was his first stop. 
Eusebius, in Onomasticon, here identifies Shechem with Shalem; but see SHALEM. To the East of the city Jacob pitched his tent in a parcel of ground which he had bought from Hamor, Shechem's father (Genesis 33:19). Here also he raised an altar and called it El-Elohe-Israel, God, the God of Israel (Genesis 33:20). 
Nablus (Shechem). Nablus, known as the site of biblical Shechem, is one of the largest Palestinian cities with a population of more than 50,000 people. The area of Biblical Shechem can be found in the Balata neighborhood in the south-eastern section of the city
The city of Shechem is mentioned by name in Genesis, Joshua, Judges, 1 Kings, 1 Chronicles, 2 Chronicles, Psalms, Jeremiah, and Hosea. When the city of Shechem was discovered it was thus a great source of vindication for the biblical record. 