This would be considered the fiber … direction of your External obliques which are the most superficial abdominal muscles. Deep to the external obliques are your internal oblique muscles. Your internal obliques run mostly perpendicular to your external obliques (i.e. opposite direction). The next layer of the abdominal muscles are the transverse abdominals whose fiber direction is parallel (horizontal) to the ground (when standing). Hope this helps.
The internal abdominal oblique muscle is an opposing force to the diaphragm, reducing upper chest cavity volume during exhalation. As the diaphragm contracts, the chest cavity is pulled down to increase lung size. Internal abdominal oblique muscles are called “same side rotators.” The right internal oblique works with the left external oblique, and vice versa, when flexing and rotating the torso.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The external oblique muscle (of the abdomen) (also external abdominal oblique muscle) is the largest and the most superficial (outermost) of the three flat muscles of the lateral anterior abdomen. 
External Abdominal Oblique Muscle. The external abdominal obliques are a pair of broad, thin, superficial muscles that lie on the lateral sides of the abdominal region of the body. Contraction of these muscles may result in several different actions, but they are best known for their lateral flexion and rotation of the trunk known as a side bend. Muscle fibers in the external obliques run medially and inferiorly from the origins to the insertions across the lateral sides of the abdomen and end just lateral to the rectus abdominis muscles. The location and structure of the external abdominal obliques gives them many different possible actions.
The Abdominal Oblique Muscles. Location: The Abdominal Oblique muscle group forms the lateral abdominal wall. The two muscles in this group are the External Oblique and Internal Oblique, with the Internal Oblique lying deep to the External Oblique. Function: The abdominal muscles (or core muscles) function to form the foundation for all gross movements of the body. The abdominal oblique muscles form the lateral wall of the abdomen and function to move the trunk relative to the pelvis.
The internal abdominal oblique muscle ends at the bottom edge of the rib cage, the rectus sheath (fibrous tissue that covers the abdominal muscles), and the pubic crest (an area in the lower-front of the pelvis). The internal abdominal oblique muscle is located closer to the skin than the transverse abdominal muscle. This muscle supports the abdominal wall, assists in forced respiration, aids in raising pressure in the abdominal area, and rotates and turns the trunk with help from other muscles. Internal abdominal oblique muscles are called “same side rotators.” The right internal oblique works with the left external oblique, and vice versa, when flexing and rotating the torso.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The internal oblique muscle (of the abdomen) is the intermediate muscle of the abdomen, lying deep to (below) the external oblique and just superficial to (above) the transverse abdominal muscle. 
The external obliques get their name from their position in the abdomen external to the internal abdominal obliques and from the direction of their fibers, which run obliquely (diagonally) across the sides of the abdomen.... Click to read more below. Muscle fibers in the external obliques run medially and inferiorly from the origins to the insertions across the lateral sides of the abdomen and end just lateral to the rectus abdominis muscles. The location and structure of the external abdominal obliques gives them many different possible actions.
The muscles of the abdomen are layered from deep to superficial including the transverse abdominis (fibers run across the abdomen), internal and external obliques (fibers run in opposite diagonal directions), and rectus abdominis (fibers run up and down). 