How to factory reset Pebble Smartwatch. 1  Turn your Pebble watch on. 2  Press the action button to enter your menu. 3  Scroll down and select your Settings. 4  Scroll all the way down and select Factory Reset. 5  Confirm your selection and the watch will do its thing. 1 Turn your Pebble watch on. 2  Press the action button to enter your menu. 3  Scroll down and select your Settings. 4  Scroll all the way down and select Factory Reset. 5  Confirm your selection and the watch will do its thing. 6  You are done!
Last Updated -. The difference between the two is seen in your firmware and your apps. In Recovery Mode, your firmware goes back to an earlier version but your apps remain on your watch. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. The Pebble Smartwatch is great-but it can be quirky and get locked up. Check out the Pebble watch here-http://epicreviewguys.com/Pebble If your Pebble acts up follow these easy steps to reset your Pebble back to a working state. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License
Please try again later. how to Reset Smartwatch Fix Bluetooth connection and frozen screen, how to reset smart watch this helps connecting bluetooth to phone. easy blue-tooth connection fix by just resetting. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Pebble has four buttons. The left button is called the 'back' button, which is used for returning to the previous screen or entering your watchface app from the main menu. On the right side, the top and bottom ('up' and 'down') buttons generally are used for scrolling through lists. Here is a breakdown of the different symbols you may see: - Your Pebble is not plugged in; the icon will also indicate how full your battery is. - Your Pebble is plugged in and charging. - Your Pebble is plugged in and fully charged. Charge your Pebble until the battery indicator shows it's full.
Out of the box, you can get plenty done with your Pebble. You can answer phone calls, receive phone notifications and even control your music on your wrist. With the addition of watch faces and third party apps, however, Pebble becomes even more robust. We've compiled some tips, tricks and apps that will help you make the most out of the Pebble smartwatch. MusicBoss takes Pebble's control of your music player to the next level. You can adjust the volume on your phone while listening to music, launch your current music app directly from the watch and even change what music app you're using from Pebble.
To turn Pebble back on, press and hold any button for 3 seconds Factory Reset If you are having difficulty with Pebble, it may be necessary to restore Pebble to Factory settings. For more information, please click here. Here is a breakdown of the different symbols you may see: - Your Pebble is not plugged in; the icon will also indicate how full your battery is. - Your Pebble is plugged in and charging. - Your Pebble is plugged in and fully charged. Charge your Pebble until the battery indicator shows it's full.
Date & Time While your Pebble is not connected to a smartphone, you can manually update the date and time on your Pebble. ​ Display From the Display screen, you can control how and when the backlight for your Pebble is triggered. Here is a breakdown of the different symbols you may see: - Your Pebble is not plugged in; the icon will also indicate how full your battery is. - Your Pebble is plugged in and charging. - Your Pebble is plugged in and fully charged. Charge your Pebble until the battery indicator shows it's full.
Yes, the Pebble has a very good memory. It will remember and store all of your activity data on average for 21 days depending on how active you are. A very active person’s Pebble may hold closer to 14 days worth of activity data. With a less active person, the Pebble will hold closer to 30 days worth of data.