This information enables us to identify the rooms that will best accommodate your party and to prepare for your arrival. See room terms and details for information about rollaway and/or extra person charges. Please note that at most Starwood hotels, guests 17 and under are considered children. All other guests are considered adults. You will be told of any hotel-specific differences in this policy on the following page
Kailua is a census-designated place (CDP) in Hawaiʻi County, Hawaii, United States, in the North Kona District of the Island of Hawaiʻi. The population was 11,975 at the 2010 census. It is the center of commerce and of the tourist industry on West Hawai ʻ i. Its post office is designated Kailua-Kona to differentiate it from the larger Kailua located on windward Oʻahu, and it is sometimes referred to as Kona in everyday speech.
Keauhou is 6 miles south of Kailua Kona Village. So you have easy access to everything. It is a great location to explore the Big Island of Hawaii. Prefer seven (7) night minimum during Ironman and end of the year holidays. Email us for shorter stays and we will try to accommodate you. This great condo includes a fully equipped kitchen, laundry in the condo and all the amenities you would expect for a wonderful vacation. Keauhou Palena is just steps to Keauhou Bay and the Keauhou Shopping Village, with a supermarket, shops, restaurants, and movie theatres. Next door to the ocean course of the Kona Country Club, and near the Kona Country Club's mountain course
Keauhou Palena is located in a lovely quiet community but still close to Keauhou Bay where there are plenty of activities to make your vacation great! The condo is on the second floor with a great view of the golf course and boasts a spacious floor plan and great lanai to enjoy your morning coffee. This great condo includes a fully equipped kitchen, laundry in the condo and all the amenities you would expect for a wonderful vacation. Keauhou Palena is just steps to Keauhou Bay and the Keauhou Shopping Village, with a supermarket, shops, restaurants, and movie theatres. Next door to the ocean course of the Kona Country Club, and near the Kona Country Club's mountain cours
The dive community calls this dive site “Garden Eel Cove” during daylight hours. This site is located in the bay that is just around the corner of the most western point of the Big Island, “Keahole Point”. In the summer of 1999, the Manta Rays essentially abandoned the Kona Surf Hotel as a feeding area. In May 2000, the Kona Surf Hotel was closed and the lights were turned off. The Manta Rays stopped frequenting the area until the resort re-opened as the Sheraton Keauhou Bay Resort & Spa in October 2004.
Locations & History. The dive site “ Manta Village ” is located near the Sheraton Keauhou Bay Resort & Spa (formerly Kona Surf Hotel) in Keauhou on the West Coast of the Big Island of Hawaii. “ Manta Village ” is the original site where everything started back in the early 70's, when the Kona Surf Hotel opened. In May 2000, the Kona Surf Hotel was closed and the lights were turned off. The Manta Rays stopped frequenting the area until the resort re-opened as the Sheraton Keauhou Bay Resort & Spa in October 2004.
Kailua is located at 19°39′0″N 155°59′39″W﻿ / ﻿19.65000°N 155.99417°W﻿ / 19.65000; -155.99417 (19.649973, −155.994028), along the shoreline of Kailua Bay and up the southern slope of Hualālai volcano. There are no major rivers or streams in Kailua or on the Kona side of Hawaii. The population was 11,975 at the 2010 census. It is the center of commerce and of the tourist industry on West Hawai ʻ i. Its post office is designated Kailua-Kona to differentiate it from the larger Kailua located on windward Oʻahu, and it is sometimes referred to as Kona in everyday speech.
Sheraton Kona Resort & Spa at Keauhou Bay is a blend of adventure, heritage and authentic Hawaiian aloha hospitality. Two 18-hole golf courses and a driving range are available at the adjacent Kona Country Club. With some of the best snorkeling on the island, Kahaluu Beach Park is one mile away. Keauhou Bay is home to numerous manta rays, which can be viewed in the evening from various resort locations.
The Kailua-Kona postal code is 96740 (post office boxes - 96745). Other communities located near this zip code include: Kalaoa, Kealakehe (96750), [[Kahalu'u-Keauhou, Hawai'i|Kahalu ʻ u, and Keauhou] 96739]. The population was 11,975 at the 2010 census. It is the center of commerce and of the tourist industry on West Hawai ʻ i. Its post office is designated Kailua-Kona to differentiate it from the larger Kailua located on windward Oʻahu, and it is sometimes referred to as Kona in everyday speech.