Although the term bogan is understood across Australia and New Zealand, certain regions have their own slang terms for the same group of people. These terms include:  1 Chigger (also chigga or chig) in Tasmania. 2  This appears to be a reference to the Hobart suburb of Chigwell. In 2007, Microsoft deemed bogan to be one of twenty colloquialisms most relevant to Australian users when the word was added to the dictionary of Microsoft Office 2007. The word entered the Oxford English Dictionary in June 2012.
Bogan. The term bogan is Australian and New Zealand slang, usually pejorative or self-deprecating, for an individual who is recognised to be from an unsophisticated background or someone whose speech, clothing, attitude and behaviour exemplifies a lack of manners and education. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: bogan (Noun). A person perceived to be unsophisticated or of a lower class background. bogan (Noun). An Anglo-Celtic member of a lower socioeconomic group, stereotypically classified as wearing black jumpers or black concert T-shirts.
In Australia we have a sub culture called “Bogan”. You can be a bogan or more acceptably, you will want to accuse others of being a bogan without actually admitting any of the traits in yourself. A bogan is sort of like a rullnock but not quite. To be a bogan is to be the most quintessentially Australian you can be. It is to take every Australian stereotype of Paul Hogan, The Crocodile Hunter (what was his name again?), Kylie Minogue, Dame Edna Everage and Skippy the Bush Kangaroo and times it by 1000. The bogan is the most Australia and often most obnoxious, an Australian can be. While browsing the Internet the other day I came across this photo collection from what must be one of Australia’s biggest bogans and it makes for the perfect example.
• A particular choice in motor vehicle. The bogan usually drives one of two makes of vehicle. Typically this is either a Holden or a Ford. Common bogan variants manufactured by each of these companies include the Holden Commodore (VB-VP models), Holden Kingswood and the Ford Falcon (all models up to the recent EF). What is a bogan?:~ BOGAN (pronunciation boe-gn) is a term used primarily in Australia to describe a particular section of the working class demographic.
The bogan person will generally lack sophistication and refinement. Over the course of the last several decades, the bogan has become a very widespread and well recognised subculture, often as an example of bad taste. Various localised names exist that describe the same or very similar groups of people. In 2007, Microsoft deemed bogan to be one of twenty colloquialisms most relevant to Australian users when the word was added to the dictionary of Microsoft Office 2007. The word entered the Oxford English Dictionary in June 2012.
The bogan language is somewhat foreign to most English-speaking people. For example in boaglish, the word shooting would be pronounced as shootun. Similarly, the word look out is pronounced as look eet. What is a bogan?:~ BOGAN (pronunciation boe-gn) is a term used primarily in Australia to describe a particular section of the working class demographic.
bogan. A fascinating beast. The majority of the species are hideously repugnant and unintelligent, and yet they manage to breed in ever-increasing numbers and populate an area known as the outer west. It is quite common to find five or six offspring in each family group, often with a different father for each new baby. A male bogan's intrests are in the Australian style 'ute' (utility vehicle), Australian rules football, and the consumption of beer. The female bogan typically wears tight pants and with attire typical of the 80's/90's.
A bogan will often allow his/her hair to grow into an attractive style named the mullet as popularised in the 1980's. A hair cut is a rare event for the bogan, and most styling occurs when the razor is brought out to either a) produce a skinhead style cut or b) a frullet (front-mullet). What is a bogan?:~ BOGAN (pronunciation boe-gn) is a term used primarily in Australia to describe a particular section of the working class demographic.
The term bogan (/ˈboʊɡən/) is an Australian and New Zealand slang word that can be used to describe a person with a lower working-class background, or whose speech, clothing, attitude and behaviour exemplify a gratified working class mentality and depending on the context, can be pejorative or self-deprecating. In 2007, Microsoft deemed bogan to be one of twenty colloquialisms most relevant to Australian users when the word was added to the dictionary of Microsoft Office 2007. The word entered the Oxford English Dictionary in June 2012.