Once the Aqua Aura Quartz crystals have calmed your emotional body and healed any holes in the auric field, they will then activate your chakras. They are strong healing stones and are powerful used in healing to intensify the vibration of other stones that you may wish to use them with. Aqua Aura Quartz are strong stones to use for protection from psychic attack and they will prevent any negative effects from any type of energy you may connect with.
Aqua Aura Quartz. Aqua Aura Quartz is a beautiful bright blue color, but this color is not natural. It is the result of a specific treatment process, where the crystals are heated, and fine vaporized gold is bonded to the stone's surface. Aqua Aura Quartz are strong stones to use for protection from psychic attack and they will prevent any negative effects from any type of energy you may connect with.
Metal-coated crystals are natural crystals, such as quartz, whose surface has been coated with metal to give them an iridescent metallic sheen. Crystals treated this way are used as gemstones and for other decorative purposes. Possible coatings include gold (resulting in a stone called aqua aura), indium, titanium, niobium and copper. Other names for crystals so treated include angel aura, flame aura, opal aura or rainbow quartz. Aqua aura is created in a vacuum chamber from quartz crystals and gold vapour by vapour deposition. The quartz is heated to 871 °C (1600 °F) in a vacuum, and then gold vapor is added to the chamber. The gold atoms fuse to the crystal's surface, which gives the crystal
A special ion treatment of clear quartz crystal with pure gold results in this stunning blue crystal color. Aqua Aura is quartz crystal that has been treated with pure gold in solution and when electrical current is applied in a special machine, fuses the gold molecules to the surface of the quartz. Metaphysically it has the qualities of both quartz and gold. Quartz has a harmonizing effect and aligns the chakra system. 
Aqua Aura Quartz can be used to soothe anger, cool feverishness, and release stress It is strongly connected to the element of water, and it is therefore a stones for enhancing one's access to the truth of the emotions and the portals of Spirit which are accessed through the emotions. In a secret process which is part alchemy and part science, the two unique substances of quartz crystal and pure gold are commingled in a permanent way, resulting in the striking blue color of Aqua Aura.....
Aqua Aura Crystal meaning. Aqua Aura Crystal is produced through a special process in which the surface of the crystal quartz is bonded with vaporized, finely powdered pure gold. This results in a stunning brilliant blue with iridescent rainbow flashes. Aqua Aura Cluster. Aqua Aura Crystal is produced through a special process in which the surface of the crystal quartz is bonded with vaporized, finely powdered pure gold.
Aqua Aura Quartz Crystals are created by taking natural quartz crystal formations and infusing them with pure Gold creating an immensely powerful protection combination which fuses the White, Blue and Gold Rays into an iridescent display of Light. In a secret process which is part alchemy and part science, the two unique substances of quartz crystal and pure gold are commingled in a permanent way, resulting in the striking blue color of Aqua Aura.....
Aqua Aura Quartz has a very high and intense vibration. It has been used to activate the energy of other minerals and gemstones for healing work, and can be a potent stone when used in body layouts for activation of the Chakras. In a secret process which is part alchemy and part science, the two unique substances of quartz crystal and pure gold are commingled in a permanent way, resulting in the striking blue color of Aqua Aura.....
earn about the crystal meanings and metaphysical and healing properties lore of Aqua Aura, a stone of truth and psychic awarness and skills. 