For American spikenard, see Aralia racemosa. Spikenard, also called nard, nardin, and muskroot, is a class of aromatic amber-colored essential oil derived from Nardostachys jatamansi, a flowering plant of the Valerian family which grows in the Himalayas of Nepal, China, and India.
Nardo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Nar-do. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Nardo Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nardo has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nardo to other names.
Nardo in Nautical Flags. Spanish names consist of one or more given names followed by TWO family names. Generally the first surname is the father's first surname and the second is the mother's first surname but this traditional order no longer required. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Nardo Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nardo has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nardo to other names.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Nardo in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Nardo in Nautical Flags page.n the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Nardo Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nardo has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nardo to other names.
Nardo /nar-do/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced NAR-doh. It is of Italian origin, and the meaning of Nardo is strong, hardy. Short form of names like Bernado and Leonardo. Kreatif forms: Narno, Nartu, Nordo. [ more ]. Nardo is an uncommonly occurring given name for males but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#27176 out of 150436, Top 18%). (2000 U.S. Census). Leonardo (#114 in 2014) is the only prominent varying form of Nardo (outside Top 1000) 
nard. n. 1. (Plants) another name for spikenard 1, spikenard 2. 2. (Plants) any of several plants, such as certain valerians, whose aromatic roots were formerly used in medicine.. nard-an aromatic ointment used in antiquity. spikenard. emollient, ointment, cream-toiletry consisting of any of various substances in the form of a thick liquid that have a soothing and moisturizing effect when applied to the skin. Translations.
Nardo has its origins in the Germanic language and it is used largely in Spanish. Nardo is a variation (Spanish) of Bernard (Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, and Polish). Nardo is also a diminutive of Bernardo (English, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish). Nardo is also a diminutive of Maynard (English). Nardo is not often used as a baby boy name. It is listed outside of the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Nardo include Naerit, Naeryt, Nairit, Narad, Narit, Naryt, Nayrit, Nimrod, Nirajeat, Nirajeet, Northwood, Norward, Norwarde, Norwerd, Norwood, Norwoode, Norwurd, Norwurde, Nymrod, and Nyrad
Noun. 1. nard-an aromatic ointment used in antiquity. spikenard. emollient, ointment, cream-toiletry consisting of any of various substances in the form of a thick liquid that have a soothing and moisturizing effect when applied to the skin. Translations.
Meaning of Nardo. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Nardo means-bold as a bear. Other origins for the name Nardo include-Spanish, German.The name Nardo is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-bold as a bear. Origin-Spain