EXCRETION Introduction Humans must get rid of two types of wastes. Wastes from the digestive system (feces) and wastes from metabolic activities (sweat & urine). Removing digestive wastes (pooping) is called egestion. Removing metabolic wastes is called excretion. Major Metabolic Wastes Table (1) summarizes the four types of metabolic wastes produced by humans (and other animals), and the type of chemical reactions that produce them.
The excretory system removes cellular wastes from the body. By getting rid of wastes, the excretory system helps maintain a proper balance of body chemicals. The organs of the excretory system are the skin, lungs, urinary system and liver. E. SKIN.
Waste is Removed From the Body We can say that excretion is the removal of chemical waste products produced during metabolic reactions. Excretory products in human beings Your body excretes water, carbon dioxide and nitrogenous compounds.
metabolic wastes that are to be excreted from the body include spent hormones, substances in excess of requirements and toxic substances. The worst that can happen to you if y … our metabolic wastes are not excreted is that you'll die because your body would become poisoned. curt weinstein.
C. THE ROLE OF BLOOD IN EXCRETION. The wastes of excretion leave body cells and are secreted into intercellular fluid. Wastes pass from intercellular fluid into the blood plasma by the process of diffusion. The blood plasma transports these excretions to excretory organs that remove them from the body.
metabolic wastes that are to be excreted from the body include spent hormones, substances in excess of requirements and toxic substances. The worst that can happen to you if y … our metabolic wastes are not excreted is that you'll die because your body would become poisoned.
Sweat. The human body sweats to release heat in order to cool the body, but sweating is also a way that cells get rid of chemical waste products. The sweat glands in your skin are tiny pockets of space that are lined by cells that pump waste products into the pocket.
 Excretion – The removal of metabolic waste from the body  Metabolic waste – any substance made by metabolism that is toxic or made in excess  Metabolism – The sum total of all cell reactions Explain the importance of removing metabolic wastes, including carbon dioxide and nitrogenous waste, from the body.