If I remember rightly, a grapheme is one written symbol (i.e. a letter), a phoneme is one sound of a language that all native speakers of that language would agree on to be the same (i.e. 'p' or 'b' we can recognise as different sounds & we recognise 'pin' and 'bin' as completely different words). Phoneme-a phenome is the smallest sound that distinguishes one word from a similar word i.e the d in bid.. as opposed to the t in bit.. the d and t being the phenomes... digraph -  a pair of letters that represent a single speech sound like ng in ring... or ch in child...
1 The basic unit of written language is the letter. 2  The name grapheme is given to the letter or combination of letters that represents a phoneme. 3  For example, the word 'ghost' contains five letters and four graphemes ('gh,' 'o,' 's,' and 't'), representing four phonemes. Definition: A letter of the alphabet, a mark of punctuation, or any other individual symbol in a writing system. Adjective: graphemic. The grapheme has been described as the smallest contrastive linguistic unit which may bring about a change of meaning  (A.C.
1 The name grapheme is given to the letter or combination of letters that represents a phoneme. 2  For example, the word 'ghost' contains five letters and four graphemes ('gh,' 'o,' 's,' and 't'), representing four phonemes. Definition: A letter of the alphabet, a mark of punctuation, or any other individual symbol in a writing system. Adjective: graphemic. The grapheme has been described as the smallest contrastive linguistic unit which may bring about a change of meaning  (A.C.
Share |. Last updated 26 October 2012 15:28 by NZTecAdmin. Sound–letter correspondences are the relationships between sounds (or phonemes) and letters (or graphemes). This starting point highlights the connections between the sounds in words and the letters that are used to represent those sounds.
grapheme. n. 1. (Linguistics) linguistics one of a set of orthographic symbols (letters or combinations of letters) in a given language that serve to distinguish one word from another and usually correspond to or represent phonemes, e.g. the f in fun, the ph in phantom, and the gh in laugh. 
A grapheme is the smallest unit used in describing the writing system of any given language, originally coined by analogy with the phoneme of spoken languages. A grapheme may or may not carry meaning by itself, and may or may not correspond to a single phoneme. Graphemes include alphabetic letters, typographic ligatures, Chinese characters, numerical digits, punctuation marks, and other individual symbols of any of the world's writing systems. The word grapheme is derived from Greek γράφω graphō (gráphō), write and the-suffix, eme by analogy with phoneme and other names of emic. Units the study of graphemes is called. graphemics
Phoneme: the smallest unit of sound that you can hear within a word; the word phoneme refers to the sound, not the letter(s) which represent the sound in writing. For example, in the word gate, there are three phonemes (g-long ay-t); in school there are four (s-c-long ooh-l). Trigraph: a three letter grapheme, where three letters represent one phoneme, as in ear, air, high, pear (three letters making one sound, even in a word like pear where the ‘r’ is not really said). Top tip! When you talk about sounds to your child, use the phonemes (the letter sounds).
Grapheme. A grapheme is the smallest semantically distinguishing unit in a written language, analogous to the phonemes of spoken languages. A grapheme may or may not carry meaning by itself, and may or may not correspond to a single phoneme. Graphemes include alphabetic letters, typographic ligatures, Chinese characters, numerical digits, punctuation marks, and other individual symbols of any of the world's writing systems.
Graphemes can be made up from 1 letter e.g. p, 2 letters e.g. sh, 3 letters e.g. tch or 4 letters e.g ough. GPC-This is short for Grapheme Phoneme Correspondence. Knowing a GPC means being able to match a phoneme to a grapheme and vice versa. Digraph-A grapheme containing two letters that makes just one sound (phoneme). Trigraph-A grapheme containing three letters that makes just one sound (phoneme). Oral Blending-This involves hearing phonemes and being able to merge them together to make a word. 