4. Navigate to and select all of the photos that you want to copy to the drive folder. Choose the select link at the top right when done. Now all of your photos will upload to the drive folder. You can move to the parent folder, select the i, and turn on link sharing there. Google Drive has an app I can install on my PC. The app syncs the files from Drive to my PC. I want to sync my Google+ photos this way as well, particiularly because all photos on my phone are automatically backed up to Google+.
1 Go to App Store & download Google Drive App on your iPhone. 2  Launch Google Drive app, then click the plus+ icon in the upper right. 3  Now on the screen that opens up, select Upload Photo or Video option. 4  You'll now be taken to you Camera Roll. So, for large uploads it is recommended to use a Wi-Fi connection. You can install PicBackMan's Google Drive uploader for Mac from the website and start backing up photos and videos. 1  Go to App Store & download Google Drive App on your iPhone. 2  Launch Google Drive app, then click the plus+ icon in the upper right. 3  Now on the screen that opens up, select Upload Photo or Video option
1 To upload them to Google Drive, select the photos you want to upload, then tap the share button. 2  From the menu, tap “See all,” then select Drive from the list. 3  It’ll ask you to give the photo a title and to confirm which account you want to upload to, and where you want to put it on your drive. 1 The app can be downloaded from the Android Website. 2  Once it’s installed the app will automatically open whenever you attach an Android phone or tablet to your computer. 3  Your photos will be in one of two areas: The Pictures folder or the DCIM folder.
There is an app for the Mac, so I can access my Google Drive files directly in the Finder. Google Drive is built into Chrome OS, so I have access from the file manager on the Chromebook. The same iOS app used on the iPhone to upload the photos is used to access the Google Drive on the iPad. Google Drive folder on Mac Finder. There is no app for Windows 8 but Google Drive is accessible through the web browser. It's just as easy to use as on the native apps on the other OS's.
Once it is installed, simply sign in with the Google Account associated with your Google Drive storage. So once you have the Google Drive app you can upload pictures to Google Drive from your iPhone 5. Step 1: Open the Google Drive app. Step 2: Tap the + button at the top-right corner of the screen. Step 3: Select the Upload Photos or Videos option. Step 4: Select the album containing the picture that you want to upload from your iPhone 5 to Google Drive. Step 5: Select each picture that you want to upload, then tap the Upload button. 
In Google+, you can change the settings to show your Drive folders with your photos. I agree that it is strange to have this missing feature, to move photos from a Drive folder to Google+ and back again. From using Google for 2 years now, Google has yet again gotten ahead of itself. Google Drive has an app I can install on my PC. The app syncs the files from Drive to my PC. I want to sync my Google+ photos this way as well, particiularly because all photos on my phone are automatically backed up to Google+.
Photo transfers involve two steps: getting the photos from the phone to my Google Drive storage in the cloud, and accessing them on the computer. Using Google Drive works well for me as I sometimes take photos with the iPhone 4S and other times with the Galaxy Note 2. The same iOS app used on the iPhone to upload the photos is used to access the Google Drive on the iPad. Google Drive folder on Mac Finder. There is no app for Windows 8 but Google Drive is accessible through the web browser. It's just as easy to use as on the native apps on the other OS's.
1 Launch Google Drive app, then click the plus+ icon in the upper right. 2  Now on the screen that opens up, select Upload Photo or Video option. 3  You'll now be taken to you Camera Roll. 4  Tap and select the ones that you wish to upload to Google Drive. So, for large uploads it is recommended to use a Wi-Fi connection. You can install PicBackMan's Google Drive uploader for Mac from the website and start backing up photos and videos. 1  Go to App Store & download Google Drive App on your iPhone. 2  Launch Google Drive app, then click the plus+ icon in the upper right. 3  Now on the screen that opens up, select Upload Photo or Video option
You can share pictures from google+ to google drive using the android Photos app. This is what I usually do. It's far from perfect, but a little faster then downloading them to your computer and uploading back to drive in 2 steps. Google Drive has an app I can install on my PC. The app syncs the files from Drive to my PC. I want to sync my Google+ photos this way as well, particiularly because all photos on my phone are automatically backed up to Google+.