Surrounding the heart is a fibrous sac called the pericardium. This sac protects the heart, and is actually composed of two layers: an inner visceral one and an outer parietal one. When the heart moves (i.e. when the heart beats), these two layers move with it. For this to happen, it is important that there is no friction between the two layers of the pericardium, which is why pericardial fluid lines the inner space between the them. Much like oil in an engine, the pericardial fluid makes for less friction between the inner and outer layer of the pericardium. The pericardial cavity or sac is the potential space between the parietal and visceral layers of serous pericardium. In other words, two different layers of cardiac tissue.
This serous layer has two membranes which enclose the pericardial cavity into which is secreted the pericardial fluid. The fluid is similar to the cerebrospinal fluid of the brain which also serves to cushion and allow some movement of the organ. The pericardial fluid reduces friction within the pericardium by lubricating the epicardial surface allowing the membranes to glide over each other with each heart beat.
The pericardium (from the Greek περί, around and κάρδιον, heart) is a double-walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels. The pericardial sac has two layers, a serous layer and a fibrous layer. It encloses the pericardial cavity which contains pericardial fluid. The pericardium fixes the heart to the mediastinum, gives protection against infection, and provides the lubrication for the heart. In between the parietal and visceral pericardial layers there is a potential space called the pericardial cavity, which contains a supply of lubricating serous fluid known as the pericardial fluid. When the visceral layer comes into contact with heart (not the great vessels) it is known as the epicardium.
The pericardium is a tough double layered fibroserous sac which covers the heart. The space between the two layers of serous pericardium (see below), the pericardial cavity, is filled with serous fluid which protects the heart from any kind of external jerk or shock. There are two layers to the pericardial sac: the outermost fibrous pericardium and the inner serous pericardium. In between the parietal and visceral pericardial layers there is a potential space called the pericardial cavity, which contains a supply of lubricating serous fluid known as the pericardial fluid. When the visceral layer comes into contact with heart (not the great vessels) it is known as the epicardium.
The pericardium has several functions: The pericardium is divided into three layers: The pericardial cavity lies between the visceral pericardium and the parietal pericardium. This cavity is filled with pericardial fluid which serves as a shock absorber by reducing friction between the pericardial membranes. Pericardial Membranes. 1  Fibrous Pericardium-the outer fibrous sac that covers the heart. 2  Parietal Pericardium-lies between the visceral pericardium and the fibrous pericardium. 3  Visceral Pericardium-also called the epicardium, this is the outer layer of the wall of
Pericardial fluid is the serous fluid secreted by the serous layer of the pericardium into the pericardial cavity. The pericardium consists of two layers, an outer fibrous layer and the inner serous layer. The pericardial fluid reduces friction within the pericardium by lubricating the epicardial surface allowing the membranes to glide over each other with each heart beat.
The Pericardium. The pericardium is a thin, two-layered, fluid-filled sac that covers the outer surface of the heart. It shields the heart from infection or malignancy and contains the heart in the chest wall. It also prevents the heart from over-expanding when blood volume increases, which keeps the heart functioning efficiently. 
The pericardium is a tough, layered sac that wraps around the heart. When the heart beats, it slides easily within the sac. Normally, only 2 to 3 tablespoons of clear-yellow pericardial fluid are present between two layers, which lubricates the heart's movements within the sac. A pericardial effusion is an abnormal amount of fluid between the heart and the pericardium, which is the sac surrounding the heart. Pericardial effusions are associated with many different medical conditions.