Surfing: Bali has awesome surfing. Thailand had a bit. Accessibility for a tourist: Thailand is very spread out, you land in Bangkok, then have to choose between a 300 km train ride / flight to the highlands, or another 300 km flight to the islands. Thailand vs Bali: Thailand is a great destination, a place that most backpackers visit on their SE Asian adventure.
Bali, Indonesia, is a 95-mile-wide island located in the Indian Ocean, only two miles east of the tip of Java and west of Lombok and Flores. Bali is a part of the Indonesian archipelago known as the Lesser Sunda Islands north of Western Australia. 1  See some Indonesia travel essentials for a profile of the country. Bali is the most famous of Indonesia's 17,000 islands and has been a tourist favorite for decades. Popular for its pristine beaches and green landscapes dotted with volcanoes, Bali attracts over 2.5 million foreign tourists per year!
The island of Bali in Indonesia is a major tourist destination, known for tropical beaches, religious architecture and friendly local culture. Travel from Thailand is relatively simple, as numerous airlines fly directly into Bali's major airport at Denpasar/Kuta, near the southern tip of the island. From Bangkok, Thailand, Bali is a four-to five-hour flight. Step 4. Book a flight. Numerous airlines operate flights between Thailand and Bali, mostly from Bangkok. You must also book a flight out of Indonesia that departs within 30 to 60 days of your arrival, as you will not be allowed to enter the country without a ticket for an outbound flight.
Bali is one of 17,000 islands (6,000 inhabited) in the archipelago that make up the country of Indonesia. It is just 90 miles (145 km) long and 50 miles (80 km) wide, and can easily be driven across in a day. The island is just east of the island of Java and west of Lombok in the Indian Ocean. Bali, which is east of Java, is one of the islands that make up the Indonesian Archipelago. The Indonesian flag. Mount Agung is an active volcano in Bali. Coral reefs, like this one, are found around island of Bali. Bali is an ideal place for growing citrus fruits. Inland Bali is dense with green rice paddies.
Bali is an Indonesian island located in the westernmost end of the Lesser Sunda Islands, lying between Java to the west and Lombok to the east. Bali is Indonesia's favorite tourist destination, known for its natural attractions, perfect climate and relaxed atmosphere. 
Bali is an island and province of Indonesia. The province includes the island of Bali and a few smaller neighbouring islands, notably Nusa Penida, Nusa Lembongan, and Nusa Ceningan. It is located at the westernmost end of the Lesser Sunda Islands, between Java to the west and Lombok to the east. Bali is a popular tourist destination and is renowned for its highly developed arts, including traditional and modern dance, sculpture, painting, leather, metalworking, and music. The Indonesian International Film Festival is held every year in Bali. Since the late 20th century, the province has had a rise in tourism.