You should ice for 20 minutes at a time and you can ice several times a day, depending on the severity of the injury, the amount of pain and the amount of swelling. You should wait at least 1 hour between ice treatments (starting when you take off the ice until you reapply the ice). Cold numbs pain and reduces swelling by constricting blood vessels. After surgery or injury, wrap an ice pack in a cloth and apply for 20 minutes, remove for 20 minutes, reapply for 20 minutes, and so on.
You should ice injuries for 20 minutes and allow at least 1 hour before icing again. The reason for icing is to decrease inflammation and/or pain in the affected area. The way it works is the ice lowers body temperature around the affected area, decreasing blood flow which in turn helps to reduce swelling. Cold numbs pain and reduces swelling by constricting blood vessels. After surgery or injury, wrap an ice pack in a cloth and apply for 20 minutes, remove for 20 minutes, reapply for 20 minutes, and so on.
The amount of time and frequency that ice should be applied to an injury varies with the degree of injury and place of injury. A good rule of thumb is to remember the acronym CBAN. CBAN is what you feel when you apply ice to the injury. First it feels COOL; then it BURNs; then it feels ACHY; finally it feels NUMB. ICE FOR INJURY AND INFLAMMATION Injury caused by a trauma, such as a bruise or a sprain, or a repetitive strain will cause inflammation. Inflammation is a good thing because your tissues need it to heal. Inflammation acts to isolate the injured area and initiates the repair process.
The cold can damage nerves if the ice is left in place too long. Ice can be left on your ankle for up to 20 minutes at a time. When your skin feels numb, it's time to remove the ice. Use ice treatments every 2 to 4 hours for the first 3 days after your injury. Ice treatments can consist of ice packs, ice slush baths or ice massages. Use crutches for as long as it hurts you to stand on your foot. Ice --Using ice packs, ice slush baths or ice massages can decrease the swelling, pain, bruising and muscle spasms. Keep using ice for up to 3 days after the injury.
o Do not apply ice directly to the skin. Ice should be applied for 20-30 minutes at a time and can be repeated about every 2-4 hours as needed. There is little benefit after 24 hours. o Use a light washcloth as a barrier and wrap the ice in it. You can also use a bag of frozen vegetables wrapped in cloth. Do not apply ice directly to the skin. Ice should be applied for 20-30. minutes at a time and can be repeated about every 2-4 hours as. needed. There is little benefit after 24 hours. o.
The first thing you should do after a sprain is to put ice for the first 48-72 hours. The ice is used to decrease swelling and pain after an injury. You should always put ice … on an acute injury. It is also important to only ice for 15-20 minutes at a time. Leaving the ice on an injured area too long will cause more swelling instead of reducing the swelling. The body thinks that area is freezing and brings more blood flow to the area to protect it.
Ideally, ice should be applied within 5-10 minutes of injury for 20 to 30 minutes. This can be repeated every 2 to 3 hours or so whilst you are awake for the next 24 to 48 hours. 
It depends on the severity of the injury. All injuries should be looked over by a physical therapist. RICEing (rest, ice, compression and elevation) should be used for the fir … st 2 or 3 days, followed by heating and slow reintroduction to light exercises (vigorous walks, then light jogging) the days or weeks after. It is also important to only ice for 15-20 minutes at a time. Leaving the ice on an injured area too long will cause more swelling instead of reducing the swelling. The body thinks that area is freezing and brings more blood flow to the area to protect it.
The recommended time for application of ice on a new wrist injury is from 20-30 minutes, or until the injured area is numb. It is only necessary to apply ice every two hours for the first 48-72 hours after the initial injury. (This answer provided for NATA by the Eastern University Athletic Training Education Program.). 