Hydrocarbons are molecules that are made of hydrogen and carbon atoms. Saturated Hydrocarbons. The simplest organic molecule is methane, CH4, which contains one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. This molecule makes up much of what we call 'natural gas' that comes out of gas stoves in our houses. Methane is a saturated hydrocarbon. Saturated hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons that contain no rings and contain only single bonds between the different atoms. Methane is the simplest hydrocarbon because it contains only one carbon atom. Methane is saturated because it has 2N + 2 hydrogen atoms.
Yes, a methyl group could be classified as an unsaturated hydrocarbon because it has one carbon bond available that is not attached to a hydrogen. As ethene contains double bond it is considered as unsaturated hydrocarbon. Note-hydrocarbon is said to saturated when it contain C-C single bond and hydrocarbon is said to un … saturated when it has carbon carbon double or triple bonds.
Organic compounds that contain only carbon and hydrogen are hydrocarbons, which differ from one another by the number of carbon and hydrogen atoms they contain. The simplest hydrocarbon is methane, CH 4, with only one carbon per molecule. Methane is the main component of natural gas. The hydrocarbon octane, C 8 H 18, has eight carbons per molecule and is a component of gasoline. The hydrocarbon polyethylene contains hundreds of carbon and hydrogen atoms per molecule. 
Question and answer. The simplest unsaturated hydrocarbon is methane, a one-carbon molecule. Please select the best answer from the choices provided T F. The simplest unsaturated hydrocarbon is methane, a one-carbon molecule. This is false. A mixture is different from a compound because each substance in a mixture a. retains its own properties. c. forms an ion. b. changes its electric charge. d. changes from a solid to a liquid.
Saturated hydrocarbon: Are hydrocarbons that only have single bonds. Unsaturated hydrocarbons: Are hydrocarbons that have double or triple bond. This is the difference. It is … simple when you listen to your teacher. As ethene contains double bond it is considered as unsaturated hydrocarbon. Note-hydrocarbon is said to saturated when it contain C-C single bond and hydrocarbon is said to un … saturated when it has carbon carbon double or triple bonds.
Methane consists of only a single carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms, each coupled with a single bond. It can be considered the simplest hydrocarbon because it has the absolu … te minimum number of carbon and hydrogen atoms, and the simplest bond structure, of any hydrocarbon. 1 person found this useful. As ethene contains double bond it is considered as unsaturated hydrocarbon. Note-hydrocarbon is said to saturated when it contain C-C single bond and hydrocarbon is said to un … saturated when it has carbon carbon double or triple bonds.
1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 1 They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 2  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 3  Saturated hydrocarbons are the basis of petroleum fuels and are found as either linear or branched species.
Ethane, C2H6, is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of saturated compounds are octane, C8H18, and diethyl ether, C4H10O. The term unsaturated is used to designate a compound which contains double or triple bonds and therefore not every carbon is bonded to a different atom. An alkene is a hydrocarbon containing double bonds. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2.
An unsaturated hydrocarbon is a hydrocarbon containing at least one double or triple bond. An alkene is a hydrocarbon containing double bonds. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2. The term saturated is used to refer to a compound in which all carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and every carbon atom is connected to a different atom
Any hydrocarbon containing either a double or triple bond is an unsaturated hydrocarbon. Alkenes have a carbon-to-carbon double bond. The general formula for alkenes with one double bond is C n H 2 n. Alkenes can be straight chain, branched chain, or cyclic. 