The salary for someone with the job title Licensed Professional Counselor in Springfield, MO varies depending on a number of factors. Maintains thorough and confidential records of observations. Requires a master's degree in area of specialty and at least 2 years of experience in the field or in a related area and state licensure as an LPC. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goal
The licensing requirements for mental health counselors vary by state and by the area of specialization, however, in most states mental health counselors are required to have a master's degree in counseling and 2 years or 3,000 hours of supervised clinical experience outside of the master's degree program. 
School Counselor Salary. (United States). The average salary for a School Counselor is $46,392 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. A skill in Teaching is associated with high pay for this job. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. 
Requires a master's degree in area of specialty and at least 2 years of experience in the field or in a related area and state licensure as an LPC. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Missouri and surrounding states, click on any one to find Licensed Professional Counselor Salaries for that area.
Average Counselor salaries for job postings in Missouri are 2% lower than average Counselor salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Missouri Licensed Professional Counselor Salaries. Within Missouri there is a lot of variation in Licensed Professional Counselor salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Missouri and surrounding states, click on any one to find Licensed Professional Counselor Salaries for that area.
Average Guidance Counselor salaries for job postings in Missouri are 2% lower than average Guidance Counselor salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Tweet. On an average, the substance abuse counselor salary in Missouri is $42,000. Substance abuse counselors are dedicated to treating mental health conditions in patients affected by chemical dependency. These professionals help patients redeem themselves in their own eyes and in the eyes of their families. Family service centers and mental health rehabilitation centers ranked among the lowest paying. Because location also affects salary, below is detailed information regarding average salary figures for substance abuse counselors in Missouri according to city: 1  Kansas City: $31,000. 2  St. Louis: $37,000.
Mental Health Counselor Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Mental Health Counselor is $38,996 per year. A skill in trauma is associated with high pay for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience.