What an incredible breakthrough! Ancient Cuneiform is the earliest known form of the written word. It used a system of wedge marks that acted as symbols of the thoughts which were able to be understood by others. Think of it. Ancient Cuneiform Writing Cuneiform is the Earliest Form of Writing. Thousands of clay writing-boards have been uncovered by archaeologists. Cuneiform is the earliest-known system of writing. It was invented in Sumer around 3000 B.C. The name cuneiform comes from the Latin word cuneus, meaning wedge. The ancient Sumerians introduced their word system throughout the Near Eas
The hieroglyphic scripts of the Ancient Near East (Egyptian, Sumerian proto-Cuneiform and Cretan) seamlessly emerge from such symbol systems, so that it is difficult to say at what exact time writing developed from proto-writing. Further, very little is known about the symbols' meanings. It is distinguished from proto-writing which typically avoids encoding grammatical words and affixes, making it more difficult or impossible to reconstruct the exact meaning intended by the writer unless a great deal of context is already known in advance. One of the earliest forms of written expression is cuneiform.
Cuneiform is a system of writing first developed by the ancient Sumerians of Mesopotamia c. 3500-3000 BCE. It is considered the most significant among the many cultural contributions of the Sumerians and the greatest among those of the Sumerian city of Uruk which advanced the writing of cuneiform c. 3200 BCE. The earliest cuneiform tablets, known as proto-cuneiform, were pictorial, as the subjects they addressed were more concrete and visible (a king, a battle, a flood) but developed in complexity as the subject matter became more intangible (the will of the gods, the quest for immortality).
Variable. The term cuneiform is very deceptive, in that it tricks people into thinking that it's some type of writing system. The truth is that cuneiform denotes not one but several kinds of writing systems, including logosyllabic, syllabic, and alphabetic scripts. In fact, cuneiform came from Latin cuneus, which means wedge.
Cuneiform is a system of writing first developed by the ancient Sumerians of Mesopotamia c. 3500-3000 BCE. It is considered the most significant among the many cultural contributions of the Sumerians and the greatest among those of the Sumerian city of Uruk which advanced the writing of cuneiform c. 3200 BCE. 
The name cuneiform itself simply means wedge shaped, from the Latin cuneus wedge and forma shape, and came into English usage probably from Old French cuneiforme. Cunéiforme emerging In sumer in the late 4th Millennium.B.C. (e The URUK iv), period cuneiform writing began as a system of. pictographs The cuneiform writing system was in use for more than three millennia, through several stages of development, from the 34th century B.C.E.
Sumerian cuneiform. Sumerian cuneiform is the earliest known writing system. Its origins can be traced back to about 8,000 BC and it developed from the pictographs and other symbols used to represent trade goods and livestock on clay tablets. Sumerian was spoken in Sumer in southern Mesopotamia (part of modern Iraq) from perhaps the 4th millennium BC until about 2,000 BC, when it was replaced by Akkadian as a spoken language, though continued to be used in writing for religious, artistic and scholarly purposes until about the 1st century AD.
Confidence votes 62. Cuneiform=. A writing style that is comprised of different sequences and patterns of cuneus that is the Latin word for 'wedge' it is one of the earliest forms of writing, earlier versions of this could probably be the earliest writing. 