From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A certified pre-owned car or CPO is a type of used car. Most often late-model, they differ from other used cars by having been inspected, refurbished, and certified by a manufacturer or other certifying authority. They also typically include an extended warranty, special financing, and additional benefits. 
Report Abuse. A certified pre-owned car or CPO is a type of used car. Most often late-model, they differ from other used cars by having been inspected, refurbished, and certified by a manufacturer or other certifying authority. Best Answer: If it is a Manufacturer Certified Pre-Owned, such a 'Cadillac Certified', then it has gone through an extensive inspection process and also will have a factory extension of the the warranty, in this case it would be 6 years or 100k miles from ORIGINAL date of purchase and is good at any Cadillac dealership.
If you decide that a certified pre-owned car is right for you, there are even more things to consider. There are different types of certified cars: ones that are certified by the factory and ones that are certified by the dealer. Other: A dealer-certified used car probably didn't get the multipoint inspection or the series of repairs that the factory-certified car did. Also, these cars won't have a warranty backed by the factory, so if you want a warranty you'll have to buy an extended one through the dealer or an insurance company.
Not all used cars can qualify for certified pre-owned programs, and terms vary from one brand to the next, but any true certified pre-owned program will include at least a 100-point inspection of the car. If problems are found, the factory-trained technicians will fix it or disqualify the car from the program. For many people, certified used cars have become affordable alternatives to new cars. By certified used or certified pre-owned, we mean used cars that are offered for sale by your local dealer and feature warranties that extend beyond the initial when new coverage.
Before deciding on a certified pre-owned car, keep in mind the pros and cons of such a decision: Pro: Factory-certified pre-owned means peace of mind; with the inspection, repairs and warranty, you've saved the time and money it would have taken to find and make them yourself. Other: A dealer-certified used car probably didn't get the multipoint inspection or the series of repairs that the factory-certified car did. Also, these cars won't have a warranty backed by the factory, so if you want a warranty you'll have to buy an extended one through the dealer or an insurance company.
According to a recent J.D. Power and Associates study, sales of certified used cars have increased 46 percent since 2000. For many people, certified used cars have become affordable alternatives to new cars. By certified used or certified pre-owned, we mean used cars that are offered for sale by your local dealer and feature warranties that extend beyond the initial when new coverage. To qualify for our definition of a certified used vehicle, the warranty must be backed by the original vehicle manufacturer
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Lots of wrong answers here. A certified pre-owned car is one that has been inspected, reconditioned and warrantied by the manufacturer. Is it worth the extra cost, probably not but if a warranty gives you peace of mind and you don't mind paying for that, that it is worth it to you
Certified Pre-Owned Cars. Make sure you get the best deal on your certified used vehicle. Certified pre-owned cars can offer the best of buying a new and used vehicle. They allow you to avoid the massive depreciation that affects new vehicles while still purchasing a relatively lightly-used car in good condition. Just because a car is certified, doesn’t mean that you should neglect to check it thoroughly before purchase. 1  Make sure you buy from a reputable dealership, such as those on the CARFAX certified pre-owned listings. 2  Ask to see a copy of the mechanic’s inspection used for the inspection.