[ 2 syll. a-nja, an-ja ] The baby girl name Anja is pronounced AA NJHAH †. Anja's language of origin is Hebrew, and it is predominantly used in German and English. Anja is a pet form (German) of Anna. Anja is also a derivative (English) of the Latvian, Lithuanian, Russian, English, and Indian Anya. Anja is a seldom used baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. In 2012, out of the group of girl names directly related to Anja, Anna was the most widely used.
Anja is one of the most exotic of several ethnic versions of Ann / Anna now being imported, also including Anya and Annika. Anja is heard in several European cultures, including Germany, Holland, and the Scandinavian countries--and it has a variety of pronunciations. 
Anja /an-ja/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew derivation, and Anja means He (God) has favored me. Anja is an alternate spelling of Anna (Hebrew): Latinate transcription of Hannah. Anja is also a form of Anya (Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Aianja, Anija, Anjaai. Anja is a somewhat popular first name for women (#3831 out of 4276, Top 90%) but a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the usage of the girl name Anja and associated names. Popular alternative forms of Anja (unlisted) are Aanya (#989 a year ago) , Aine, Ana (#222) , Ann (#945) , Anna (#34) , Annalee (#987) , Annamarie, Annemarie, Annika (#576) , Annmarie and Anya (#472) 
-- kaykay_ 7/29/2015. Anja means Angel in portuguese. -- Anonymous User 8/22/2015. The name Anja is also commonly used in the Netherlands: in 2014, there was a total of 7868 bearers (of all ages) in the entire country. The popularity of the name was at its absolute high in 1966: that year, approximately 358 newborn Dutch girls were given the name. 
The name Anya is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Anya is: Hannah. Favor. Grace. American Meaning: The name Anya is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Anya is: Hannah. Favor. Grace. Greek Meaning: The name Anya is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Anya is: A. In Virgil's 'Aeneid', Anna was sister of Dido, Queen of Carthage. According to an apocryphal gospel, Anna was also the mother of the Virgin Mary. 
1 Anya in Sanskrit is either a word meaning inexhaustibility or a pronoun meaning other or another person (it also has this meaning in Hindi). 2  Aanya is a common spelling of this name in India. 3  Anya in Hungarian means mother (other forms: edesanya, édesanya, anyu, anyuka) .  anyuci 1 Ania is the spelling in Polish, which is also a diminutive of Anna. 2  The spelling Anja is common in Croatian, Norwegian, Danish, German, Swedish, Finnish, Dutch, Slovenian, Macedonian and Serbian. 3  Áine áine is The irish spelling of the.  name
Meaning: The Russian name Anja means-a form of Anya. 
1 Anya (аня) is a Russian diminutive of Anna, derived from Hannah which means gracious or bringing goodness in the original Hebrew language. 2  Ania is the spelling in Polish, which is also a diminutive of Anna. 1 Ania is the spelling in Polish, which is also a diminutive of Anna. 2  The spelling Anja is common in Croatian, Norwegian, Danish, German, Swedish, Finnish, Dutch, Slovenian, Macedonian and Serbian. 3  Áine áine is The irish spelling of the.  name
Comments and insights on the name Anja: | Edit. We named our first and only daughter Anja. We are Finnish and this spelling is more common in Scandinavia. Everyone says it's a beautiful name and the j just makes it unique! Anja and Jana are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters. Origin of the name Anna: Anna is a Latinate variant of the French Anne, a cognate of the Hebrew Hannah (gracious, full of grace). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.