In terms of shape, Europe is a collection of connected peninsulas and nearby islands. The two largest peninsulas are mainland Europe and Scandinavia to the north, divided from each other by the Baltic Sea. Three smaller peninsulas— Iberia, Italy and the Balkans —emerge from the southern margin of the mainland. Europe's most significant geological feature is the dichotomy between the highlands and mountains of Southern Europe and a vast, partially underwater, northern plain ranging from the United Kingdom in the west to the Ural Mountains in the east.
Beside the Great European Plain there is number of other European plains such as the Pannonian Basin or Mid-Danube Plain which lies in the land of Alpine-Carpathian mountains, Padana Plain which is located in the valley of the Po river, and lowlands of the British Isles. Location [edit]. The plain stretches from the Pyrenees mountains and the French coast of the Bay of Biscay in the west to the Russian Ural Mountains in the east.
If you mean just two major cities in Europe, and two major cities in Asia, here are examples: Europe-Moscow & London Asia-Shanghai & Tokyo If you mean two cities that spa … n the continents of Europe and Asia, two examples are Istanbul & Orenburg. 3 people found this useful. There are many major rivers which are located in Europe. Some of  the largest include the Volga, Danube, Ural, and Dnieper rivers.
The two major cities on the North China Plain are Beijing and  Tianjin. The North China Plain is based on the deposits of the  Yellow River and is the largest alluvial plain … of eastern Asia. Answered. In Earth Sciences. There are many major rivers which are located in Europe. Some of  the largest include the Volga, Danube, Ural, and Dnieper rivers.
Biomes of the Western palearctic ecozone. Main article: Physiographic regions of the world. The European Plain or Great European Plain is a plain in Europe and is a major feature of one of four major topographical units of Europe-the Central and Interior Lowlands. Location [edit]. The plain stretches from the Pyrenees mountains and the French coast of the Bay of Biscay in the west to the Russian Ural Mountains in the east.
The two major mountains ranges in Europe are the Alps, which stretches across much of the continent, and the Ural Mountains which divides the continent from Asia. There are many major rivers which are located in Europe. Some of  the largest include the Volga, Danube, Ural, and Dnieper rivers.
Europe Geography. Located in south-central Europe, they extend for almost 700 miles from the coastline of southern France (near Monaco) into Switzerland, northern Italy and Austria, then southeast through Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the (Dinaric Alps). Print this map. Located in south-central Europe, they extend for almost 700 miles from the coastline of southern France (near Monaco) into Switzerland, northern Italy and Austria, then southeast through Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the (Dinaric Alps).
Alps: Located in south-central Europe, they extend for almost 700 miles from the coastline of southern France (near Monaco) into Switzerland, northern Italy and Austria, then southeast through Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the (Dinaric Alps). Ending in Albania on the rugged coastline of the Adriatic Sea. Print this map. Located in south-central Europe, they extend for almost 700 miles from the coastline of southern France (near Monaco) into Switzerland, northern Italy and Austria, then southeast through Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the (Dinaric Alps).