3 • LANGUAGE. There are thirty-three languages spoken in Mozambique. The official language adopted by the government is Portuguese. However, only an estimated 30,000 people in Mozambique speak the language, and 27 percent of those speak it as a second language. In urban centers, particularly in Maputo, English is becoming popular because many neighboring countries use English as their official language.
Portuguese is the official language of Mozambique. It is spoken by 50.3% of the population. 10.7% of the population speaks it as their first language, while the remaining 39.7% speaks it as their second language. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The official language of Mozambique is Portuguese, but this is spoken only by the approximate quarter of the population that has received school education. Portuguese is the language of the Mozambican education, business, and legal systems, which poses a problem for the great majority of the population who cannot read nor speak it. Approximately 60 other languages and dialects are spoken in Mozambique. All are of Bantu origin, and can be roughly categorised by geography.
A number of Bantu languages are indigenous to Mozambique. Portuguese, inherited from the colonial period (see: Portuguese Mozambique), is the official language, and Mozambique is a full member of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries. Ethnologue lists 43 languages spoken in the country. Other widely spoken languages include Swahili, Makhuwa, Sena, Ndau, and Shangaan (Tsonga) . Other indigenous languages of Mozambique include Lomwe, Makonde, Chopi, Chuwabu, Ronga, Kimwani, Zulu, and Tswa. The language of the deaf community is Mozambican Sign Language.
Portuguese is the official language, although this is generally only spoken by the more educated amongst Mozambique's population. Beside this, more than 60 different dialects of Bantu languages can be found in Mozambique. English is generally spoken in hotels and beach lodges. 
Portuguese is the current official language but there are many African languages spoken in various parts of the country (Shona, Shangana, Nyungwe, etc). English, most definitely. It is spoken by the vast majority of citizens (around 85%), and has always been historically and traditionally a part of this country. It has always … been the most spoken language, and it needs to stay that way, and making it official will keep it that way.
Other former colonies of Portugal, including Macau in China, and Angola, Mozambique, and several other African nations, continue to use Portuguese as an official language. Portuguese is also an official language of the African Union and the European Union. Roots of the Language: Like other Romance languages, Portuguese is rooted in Latin, which was brought to the Iberian Peninsula during the Roman Empir
Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.   Its Portugese. English, most definitely. It is spoken by the vast majority of citizens (around 85%), and has always been historically and traditionally a part of this country. It has always … been the most spoken language, and it needs to stay that way, and making it official will keep it that way.
[ʁɛˈpublikɐ di musɐ̃ˈbiki]), is a country in Southeast Africa bordered by the Indian Ocean to the east, Tanzania to the north, Malawi and Zambia to the northwest, Zimbabwe to the west, and Swaziland and South Africa to the southwest. It is separated from Madagascar by the Mozambique Channel to the east. The capital and largest city is Maputo (known as Lourenco Lourenço marques before). Independence between the 1st and 5th CENTURIES, Ad-bantu speaking peoples migrated from farther north and. west After over four centuries of Portuguese rule, Mozambique gained independence in 1975, becoming the People's Republic of Mozambique shortly thereafter. After only two years of independence, the country descended into an intense and protracted civil war lasting from 1977 to 1992.