Tax Software Updates. If you used a tax software program to file your taxes, you can check your return status through the software provider. If you provide your email address, most tax software will send you an email confirmation when the IRS accepts your tax return. Software programs also typically have an application that allows you to check the status of your return by logging into your account.
Sign in to your return. Start Tax Return Sign In. Checking Your Tax Return and Tax Refund Status Before you check where your tax refund money is or what your tax refund status is, please check your tax return status through your efile.com account and make sure that your tax return has been accepted by the IRS. 4. IRS Check by Mail: Once your tax return has been received and processed, the IRS will issue you a paper check and send it through the post office. It generally takes about twice as long as direct deposit to receive your refund in the mail. Check in this order: 1. Tax Refund Dates 2. Tax Refund Status 3.
Dear Perriwinkle, You can check on the status of your return at the following link. If there is no information, then it means that either your tax preparer has not sent in the form for you, or the IRS has received it and has not started processing your return. If it returns information to you about your 1040, then you know they received it and are working on it.
You can also use your mobile phone to check the status of a tax return. Recently, the IRS released IRS2Go, a smart phone application that allows you to handle taxes online. 1  If you are an Apple user, you can download IRS2Go from the Apple App Store. It takes time for the IRS to process your taxes. Give them adequate time before checking on the status of your refund. 1  If you e-filed your taxes, you should be able to get a refund status within 72 hours. 2  If you mail your taxes, you will have to wait 3 or 4 weeks after mailing in
Three Methods: Checking the Status of a Federal Tax Return Online Checking the Status of a Federal Tax Return over the Phone Checking the Status of State Tax Return. If you are due money back on your federal or state taxes, you'll want to know when you can expect that rebate check or direct deposit to arrive. If asking about a tax return filed with the United States federal government, you can check either online or by phoning the IRS. It takes time for the IRS to process your taxes. Give them adequate time before checking on the status of your refund. 1  If you e-filed your taxes, you should be able to get a refund status within 72 hours. 2  If you mail your taxes, you will have to wait 3 or 4 weeks after mailing in
Most tax software programs will alert you when the IRS accepts your tax return. If you filed your taxes on your own, you can contact the IRS directly for information. If you provide your email address, most tax software will send you an email confirmation when the IRS accepts your tax return. Software programs also typically have an application that allows you to check the status of your return by logging into your account.
1 Check your tax return on efile.com (only if you prepared and efiled at efile.com). 2  If you efiled your tax return at a different site, please sign in to your account at that site; efile.com can not provide tax return status information for other web sites or tax offices. 4. IRS Check by Mail: Once your tax return has been received and processed, the IRS will issue you a paper check and send it through the post office. It generally takes about twice as long as direct deposit to receive your refund in the mail. Check in this order: 1. Tax Refund Dates 2. Tax Refund Status 3.
On-Line Taxes can assist you with the status of your tax return, however we do not know the status of your. from the IRS or your State. Once you submit your return with OnLine Taxes, you will need to check your status in 24-48 hours to ensure acceptance. Once your Federal and/or State return has been accepted you will be able to check your status with the IRS or State once they have processed your return. Federal Tax Refunds. Check FederalRefund Status
On-Line Taxes can assist you with the status of your tax return, however we do not know the status of your refund from the IRS or your State. Once you submit your return with OnLine Taxes, you will need to check your status in 24-48 hours to ensure acceptance. Once your Federal and/or State return has been accepted you will be able to check your status with the IRS or State once they have processed your return. Federal Tax Refunds. Check FederalRefund Status
You'll need your Social Security number, your tax filing status and the amount of any refund due. If you e-filed your return, wait 24 hours after the IRS acknowledged receipt of your return. If you provide your email address, most tax software will send you an email confirmation when the IRS accepts your tax return. Software programs also typically have an application that allows you to check the status of your return by logging into your account.