Cute but Endangered. Golden lion tamarins are small orange-yellow monkeys. They are found in swamp forests along the Atlantic Coastal forests of Brazil. Golden lion tamarins get their names from their striking orange mane. 
The Golden Lion Tamarin is one of the most endangered mammals in the world. This Tamarin monkey is nearly extinct primarily because of its magnificent mane. Poachers desire this monkey's hide as they can sell for as much as twenty thousand dollars on the black market! For many happy years the Golden Lion Tamarin was classified as the most common of Tamarins in captivity. Now their status is extremely endangered and they are not the most common tamarin
The golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia) also known as golden marmoset, is a small new world monkey. Native to the Atlantic coastal forests of Brazil, the golden lion tamarin is an endangered species and among the rarest animals in the world. The golden lion tamarin is listed as endangered by the US Fish and Wildlife Service and IUCN. Only about 800 are left in the wild, and about 30% of these were either relocated from depleted areas or released as part of a reintroduction programme.
Species Description and Range. The golden lion tamarin’s long, silky fur, particularly at the shoulders, gives it a lionlike mane. Tamarins are some of the smallest members of the primate family. They are only 8 to 14 inches (20-36 cm) long (not including tail) and weigh less than 2 pounds (900 g). There are now breeding populations of golden lion tamarins in zoos around the world. The Species Survival Plan (SSP) is coordinated by the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C. Over 50 golden lion tamarins are born each year in captivity.
SavingSpecies Golden Lion Tamarin project helped restore one of the most endangered and unique forests on earth – the coastal Atlantic Forest in Brazil. Only three percent of the coastal forest in northeastern Brazil remains. Its mission is to support the conservation work of the Associacao Associação-Mico Leao (LEãO-dourado Amld The Golden Lion) tamarin Association. IN brazil amld is THE premier ngo protecting species and expanding wildlife habitat for one of the most endangered and unique forests – on Earth The. atlantic forest
Golden lion tamarins (GLTs) are an endangered species native to Brazil's Atlantic coastal forest. In the early 1970s, there were fewer than 200 of these small monkeys. Thanks to the National Zoo, other zoos, conservation organizations, and Brazil's government, there are now about 1,600 living in the wild. 
Experts were quick to realize the reputation of the Golden Lion Tamarin as a beautiful animal would make it an endangered species. From the 1970's, zoos started breeding Golden Lion Tamarins to increase their numbers, and about ten years later, began releasing the new bred monkeys to their natural habitats. The Golden Lion Tamarin has a diverse diet, eating anything from insects and animals such as lizards and frogs, to fruits and honey from flowers. The Golden Lion Tamarin gets its name from its mane, which resembles that of a lion.
The golden-headed lion tamarin (Leontopithecus chrysomelas), also the golden-headed tamarin, is a lion tamarin endemic to Brazil. It is found only in the lowland and premontane tropical forest fragments in the state of Bahia, and therefore is considered to be an endangered species. 
Golden Lion Tamarin. One of the most endangered of all primates and all mammals is the Golden Lion Tamarin. This tiny animal weighs only about a pound and is just about a foot long. They have extremely beautiful manes which are made up of very lengthy hairs from the head, much like a lions.