THE NORTH STAR. Polaris, also known as the North Star, Northern Star or Pole Star, is the brightest star in the constellation Ursa Minor. Historically it has been used to guide travellers, and is very close to the north celestial pole, making it the current northern pole star
The Northern Star is a constantly fixed point in space marked by a star to help aid in navigation by early sailors to stay on course during the night. The North Star is the star which lies closest to a point in the sky above the northern polar axis of the Earth. This star is called Polaris or the Pole Star. After the Sun, the brightest star is Sirius, in the constellation Canis Major. However, while Sirius is the brightest star visible from the Northern Hemisphere, it is part o … f a southern hemisphere constellation.
The North Star lies at the end of the handle in the Little Dipper (Ursa Minor). For a point of reference, The Big Dipper (Ursa Major) lies below the little dipper and their handles point in opposite directions. The two stars in the end of the ladle of The Big Dipper point to Polaris. Interestingly, the North Star hasn’t always been, nor will it always be the Pole Star because the Earth’s axis changes slightly over time, and stars move in relation to each other over time. You can also approximate your latitude by measuring the angle of elevation between the horizon and the North Star.
In practice, the term pole star usually refers to Polaris, which is the current northern pole star, also known as the North Star. The south celestial pole lacks a bright star like Polaris to mark its position. The closest bright star to the north celestial pole is Polaris. At magnitude 1.97 (variable), it is the brightest star in the Ursa Minor constellation (at the end of the handle of the Little Dipper asterism).
Best of all, Polaris is readily found by using the prominent group of stars known as the Big Dipper, called the Plough in the UK, which may be the Northern Hemisphere’s most famous star pattern. To locate Polaris, all you have to do is to find the Big Dipper pointer stars Dubhe and Merak. About-face of Polaris steers you due south. Polaris is not the brightest star in the nighttime sky, as is commonly believed. It’s only about 50th brightest. But you can find it easily, and, once you do, you’ll see it shining in the northern sky every night, from N. Hemisphere locations.
Polaris hasn’t always been the North Star and won’t remain the North Star forever. For example, a famous star called Thuban, in the constellation Draco the Dragon, was the North Star when the Egyptians built the pyramids. But our present Polaris is a good North Star because it’s the sky’s 50th brightest star. About-face of Polaris steers you due south. Polaris is not the brightest star in the nighttime sky, as is commonly believed. It’s only about 50th brightest. But you can find it easily, and, once you do, you’ll see it shining in the northern sky every night, from N. Hemisphere locations.
In fact, Polaris ranks only 50th in brightness. The North Star or Pole Star – aka Polaris – is famous for holding nearly still in our sky while the entire northern sky moves around it. That’s because it’s located nearly at the north celestial pole, the point around which the entire northern sky turns. About-face of Polaris steers you due south. Polaris is not the brightest star in the nighttime sky, as is commonly believed. It’s only about 50th brightest. But you can find it easily, and, once you do, you’ll see it shining in the northern sky every night, from N. Hemisphere locations.
So at any hour of the night, at any time of the year you can readily find Polaris and it is always found in a due northerly direction. If you were at the North Pole, the North Star would be directly overhead. That’s true now, anyway. Polaris, the North Star, lies at the end of the handle of the Little Dipper (lower left), whose stars are faint compared to those of the Big Dipper (upper right).