The flora produce about 30% of our total daily need of vitamin K. Vitamin K1 (pylloquinone) is synthesized by green plants, therefore, dark green leafy vegetables are a rich source of vitamin K. Vitamin K3 (Menadione) is a synthetic version of the vitamin. 
Intestinal bacteria also have a role in the synthesis of vitamins B and K and the metabolism of bile acids, other sterols and xenobiotics. The colonic microflora are also responsive to diet. 
Vitamin K: One of two naturally occurring fat-soluble vitamins (vitamin K1 and vitamin K2) needed for the clotting of blood because of an essential role in the production of prothrombin (a clotting factor). 
Some vitamins are also synthesized by bacteria in the lower intestine, although their contribution to absorbed vitamins is not likely very large. Photo Credit roobcio/iStock/Getty Images. Overview. Vitamins are essential molecules that must be taken in from the diet because the human body is incapable of synthesizing them. Water-soluble vitamins are absorbed in the upper small intestine. Bacteria in the large intestine synthesize many water-soluble vitamins; however lower intestinal bacterial synthesis of vitamins is not a major source of vitamins for human
Present in a broad variety of foods, including grain, legumes, egg yolk, and meat. Also synthesized by intestinal bacteria. The precursor to coenzyme A, which is an enzyme critical to the oxidation and/or synthesis of carbohydrates and fatty acids. Vitamins are organic molecules that are necessary for normal metabolism in animals, but either are not synthesized in the body or are synthesized in inadequate quantities. Consequently, vitamins must be obtained from the diet. Most vitamins function as coenzymes or cofactors.
Naturally occurring forms of vitamin K include a number of vitamers known as vitamin K 1 and vitamin K 2 (Figure 1). Vitamin K 1 or phylloquinone is synthesized by plants and is the predominant form in the diet. Vitamin K 2 includes a range of vitamin K forms collectively referred to as menaquinones. Most menaquinones are synthesized by human intestinal microbiota and found in fermented foods and in animal products. 
Vitamin B12 aids in the development of red blood cells in higher animals pantothenic acid water-soluble vitamin essential in animal metabolism. Pantothenic acid, a growth-promoting substance for yeast and certain bacteria, appears to be synthesized by bacteria in the intestines of the higher animals. Report Abuse. It was demonstrated by human experiments that the fecal vitamin B_6,urinary 4-pyridoxic acid as well as the synthesized vitamin B_6 markedly increased with the change of an ordinary diet to a vegetable diet.
But the addition of cellulose to a meat diet caused a definite rise in their amounts. The gain in urinary 4-pyridoxic acid indicates the absorption of the vitamin B_6 synthesized by intestinal bacteria. It was found to be definitely more marked than in the case of riboflavin and thiamine. Report Abuse. It was demonstrated by human experiments that the fecal vitamin B_6,urinary 4-pyridoxic acid as well as the synthesized vitamin B_6 markedly increased with the change of an ordinary diet to a vegetable diet.
Present in many natural foods, including dark-green vegetables (spinach!), beef, eggs, whole grains. Also synthesized by intestinal bacteria. Serves as a coenzyme in the synthesis of several amino acids, as well as purines and thymine, and therefore DNA. Deficiency is typically manifest as growth failure and anemia. Vitamins are organic molecules that are necessary for normal metabolism in animals, but either are not synthesized in the body or are synthesized in inadequate quantities. Consequently, vitamins must be obtained from the diet. Most vitamins function as coenzymes or cofactors.