Autistic disorder, sometimes called autism or classical ASD, is the most severe form of ASD, while other conditions along the spectrum include a milder form known as Asperger syndrome, and childhood disintegrative disorder and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (usually referred to as PDD-NOS). ASD varies widely in severity and symptoms and may go unrecognized, especially in mildly affected children or when it is masked by more debilitating handicaps. Very early indicators that require evaluation by an expert include: 1  no babbling or pointing by age 1. 2  no single words by 16 months or two-word phrases by age 2.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental condition which is usually diagnosed in the first 3 years of life. Generally parents become concerned when their child has delays in speech development, limited social relatedness, and restricted interests and activities. 
Autism spectrum disorder is a serious neurodevelopmental disorder that impairs a child's ability to communicate and interact with others. It also includes restricted repetitive behaviors, interests and activities. These issues cause significant impairment in social, occupational and other areas of functioning. It's not clear whether this is due to better detection and reporting or a real increase in the number of cases, or both. While there is no cure for autism spectrum disorder, intensive, early treatment can make a big difference in the lives of many children.
By National Institute of Mental Health ~ 6 min read. Pages: 1 2 All. Although there are many concerns about labeling a young child with an autism spectrum disorder, the earlier the diagnosis of autism is made, the earlier needed interventions can begin. 
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired social interaction, verbal and non-verbal communication, and restricted and repetitive behavior. Parents usually notice signs in the first two years of their child's life. 
(For local and regional centers specializing in the coordinated medical care of children and adolescents with autism, explore our Autism Treatment Network and visit our Resources page). Sometimes an autism spectrum disorder is diagnosed later in life, often in relation to learning, social or emotional difficulties. As with young children, diagnosis of adolescents and adults involves personal observation and interview by a trained specialist. Often parents are the first to notice that their child is showing unusual behaviors such as failing to make eye contact, not responding to his or her name or playing with toys in unusual, repetitive ways. For a description of early indicators of autism, see Learn the Signs.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Diagnosing autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can be difficult, since there is no medical test, like a blood test, to diagnose the disorders. Doctors look at the child’s behavior and development to make a diagnosis. ASD can sometimes be detected at 18 months or younger. By age 2, a diagnosis by an experienced professional can be considered very reliable.
But it is important that parents understand and watch for symptoms of autism. Early diagnosis and treatment can make a big difference in a child's ability to manage autism. Autism is a serious developmental disorder that affects a child's ability to communicate and interact with others. For reasons that are not clear, the disease is three to four times more common in boys than it is in girls
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a range of complex neurodevelopment disorders, characterized by social impairments, communication difficulties, and restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped patterns of behavior. ASD varies widely in severity and symptoms and may go unrecognized, especially in mildly affected children or when it is masked by more debilitating handicaps. Very early indicators that require evaluation by an expert include: 1  no babbling or pointing by age 1. 2  no single words by 16 months or two-word phrases by age 2.
Although the term Asperger's syndrome is no longer in the DSM, some people still use the term, which is generally thought to be at the mild end of autism spectrum disorder. The number of children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder is rising. It's not clear whether this is due to better detection and reporting or a real increase in the number of cases, or both. While there is no cure for autism spectrum disorder, intensive, early treatment can make a big difference in the lives of many children.