Tim Boyle/Getty Images. Subway is one of the cheapest major fast-food restaurants to franchise. To open one restaurant, the company requires that potential franchisees have liquid assets of at least $30,000 and a net worth of $80,000 to $310,000, according to Entrepreneur. By comparison, McDonald's requires its franchisees to have at least $750,000 in liquid assets. But Subway restaurants generate less revenue than McDonald's units. A Subway restaurant, on average, generates $490,000 in sales annually, compared to $2.5 million in average annual revenue for McDonald's restaurants, according to QSR magazine.
BROCHURE REQUEST. A SUBWAY® stores start-up costs are exceptionally low for a franchise of the size and stature and franchisees can often purchase dependable outlet equipment through the SUBWAY® brand’s purchasing power. In fact, in some cases, traditional SUBWAY® outlets can be opened for as little as c. £100,000. The total initial investment will depend on many factors including location, rent, outlet size and equipment. The franchise agreement is for 20 years and renewable for 20 years (subject to terms and conditions).
Cost to Start a Subway Franchise. It usually takes anywhere from $115,000 to $220,000 to start a Subway franchise. Occasionally, with larger restaurants, the cost can run up to $250,000. One of the first expenses is the initial franchise fee of $15,000. This fee covers the cost of using the Subway name and is generally non-refundable. Beyond that, you’ll need to budget for start-up costs and operating expenses for the first three months.
Subway deems the equipment lease to be a true lease and not a financing lease. Subway offers to finance $10,000 of the initial franchise fee under its minority loan program for qualified franchisees purchasing their first franchise at the full franchise fee in the USA only. Franchise Offer: Subway offers qualified purchasers the right to establish and operate, from a single location, a retail establishment preparing and selling foot-long and specialty sandwiches, salads and other food items.
If you are looking to start your own business and want to learn more about how to become a SUBWAY® franchisee, follow our five simple steps and request a brochure for more information. Five steps – getting started ». Request a brochure ». *SUBWAY® is the number one QSR brand by total store count (as at January 2015). 
Step 2. Obtain a franchise kit from Subway by visiting their website at www.subway.com and filling out a form to request information. The initial franchise fee for a Subway restaurant is $15,000. Total start-up costs vary, but can be as low as about $78,000. You must have some general business experience to be approved for a franchise
Subway franchisees need less money because the sandwich chain's restaurants are cheaper to open. Subway's startup costs, which include construction and equipment leasing expenses, range from $116,200 to $262,850, according to the company. Opening a McDonald's restaurant requires as much as $2.3 million in startup costs alone, by comparison. But Subway restaurants generate less revenue than McDonald's units. A Subway restaurant, on average, generates $490,000 in sales annually, compared to $2.5 million in average annual revenue for McDonald's restaurants, according to QSR magazine.
Perhaps it's no surprise that so many potential franchisees are drawn to SUBWAY®. After all, one of the main reasons people buy a franchise is to prosper from a proven business model. And there's no doubt that, with more than 40,000 stores in over 100 countries, the SUBWAY® model is proven. But, of course, the franchise fee is just a small part of the total investment. Once you factor in premises fit out, equipment and working capital, the total costs will be much higher. And, depending on the location, that will be anywhere from £64,000 to almost quarter-of-a-million pounds.
The investment required to open a Subway Franchise is between $85,200-$260,350. There is an initial franchise fee of $15,000 which grants you the license to run a business under the Subway name. With a loan from Buck for only $1,000, DeLuca hoped the tiny sandwich shop would earn enough to put him through college. After struggling through the first few years, the founders changed the company's name to Subway and began franchising in 1974.