Cytosol is the water-like fluid found in bacterial cells. The cytosol contains all the other internal compounds and components the bacteria needs for survival. The fluid and all its dissolved or suspended particles is called the cytoplasm of the cell. Proteins, amino acids, sugars, nucleotides, salts, vitamins, enzymes, DNA, ribosomes, and internal bacterial structures all float around the cell in the cytoplasm. Some people say a bacterial cell is just a simple bag of enzymes. This couldn't be further from the truth! Learn about the structure and function of the bacterial cell membrane, what's in the cytoplasm, and how membrane surface area impacts bacterial size.
The cytoplasmic membrane, also called a cell membrane or plasma membrane, is about 7 nanometers (nm; 1/1,000,000,000 m) thick. It lies internal to the cell wall and encloses the cytoplasm of the bacterium (see Fig. 1). 
The cell membrane (also called the plasma membrane, plasmalemma, or phospholipid bilayer) surrounds the cytoplasm of a cell and, in animal cells, physically separates the in … tracellular components from the extracellular environment, thereby serving a function similar to that of http://wiki.answers ... 
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm.
The genome is the most important feature in the cytoplasm. It is located in a central region of the cell called the nuclioid. The genome is a clump or coil of DNA that controls all the functions of the bacterial cell and produces the proteins that the bacterium needs to survive. 
In gram-negative bacteria, the cell wall is thin and releases the dye readily when washed with an alcohol or acetone solution. Cytoplasm-The cytoplasm, or protoplasm, of bacterial cells is where the functions for cell growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. It is a gel-like matrix composed of water, enzymes, nutrients, wastes, and gases and contains cell structures such as ribosomes, a chromosome, and plasmids. The cell envelope encases the cytoplasm and all its components. Unlike the eukaryotic (true) cells, bacteria do not have a membrane enclosed nucleus. The chromosome, a single, continuous strand of DNA, is localized, but not contained, in a region of the cell called the nucleoid. All the other cellular components are scattered throughout the cytoplasm
bacteria image by chrisharvey from Fotolia.com. The cytoplasm of bacterial cells is enclosed by the cell, or plasma, membrane that separates and protects the internal environment of the cell from the external environment. Save. bacteria image by chrisharvey from Fotolia.com. The cytoplasm of bacterial cells is enclosed by the cell, or plasma, membrane that separates and protects the internal environment of the cell from the external environment. It also regulates what enters and exits the cell.
Best Answer: c. Plasma membrane is the correct answer. a.Nucleoid-Prokaryotes are characterized by their lack of a ‘’true’’ nucleus. In stead of a nucleus, they have a nucleoid where their genetic material is localized and it found in the cyctoplasm. b.Ribsosome: a sphere-shaped structure found in the cytoplasm of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. d.Cell wall: a rigid layer of polysaccharides enclosing the membrane of plant and prokaryotic cells. Source(s): From the Bio class Image for the bacteria: http://ict-science-to-society.org/Pathog... 
Cell Membrane. The answer is the cell membrane. The cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer that completely surrounds a bacterial cell. The word 'completely' is important here because any break in the bilayer will lead to the death of the bacteria. Some people say a bacterial cell is just a simple bag of enzymes. This couldn't be further from the truth! Learn about the structure and function of the bacterial cell membrane, what's in the cytoplasm, and how membrane surface area impacts bacterial size.