Maritime Pine PLUS is the highest quality antioxidant formulation available! French Maritime Pine extract is the most prolific and powerful free radical scavenger and with the bioavailability and the quality ingredients of the PLUS formula, it is the most effect, complete and diverse antioxidant available. 
75 million Americans with Met S. Pycnogenol – a combination of procyanidins, bioflavonoids and organic acids extracted from the bark of the maritime pine – is included in more than 700 dietary supplements, cosmetic products and functional foods and beverages worldwide. Pine bark extract shows benefits against metabolic syndrome: Human data. By Stephen DANIELLS Stephen DANIELLS, 03-May-2013. Daily supplements of Pycnogenol, an extract from the bark of the French maritime pine, may help reduce health risk factors associated with metabolic syndrome, suggests new data from a human study.
The source of Pycnogenol® is Europe's largest forest in southwestern France near the famous Bordeaux region. The forest is a plantation of French maritime pine trees (pinus pinaster), dating back to the times of Napoleon III, which are harvested for timber purposes after a period of 30-50 years. Neither pesticides nor herbicides are used in the forest. 
The maritime pine features the longest and most robust needles of all European pine species. The cones are conic, 10–20 cm long and 4–6 cm broad at the base when closed, green at first, ripening glossy red-brown when 24 months old. Pinus pinaster resin is also a useful source of turpentine and rosin. In addition to industrial uses, maritime pine is also a popular ornamental tree, often planted in parks and gardens in areas with warm temperate climates. It has become naturalised in parts of southern England, South Africa and Australia.
French maritime pine bark and its extracts (especially the patented compound pycnogenol) are increasingly being studied by those interested in natural remedies and by biochemists alike for its potential benefits to human health. Natural Cures: French maritime pine bark is recommended to those who have tree pollen allergies, suffer circulation issues (including erectile dysfunction), have high blood pressure, experience eye issues, have varicose veins, and more.
Pinus pinaster is widely planted for timber in its native area, being one of the most important trees in forestry in France, Spain and Portugal. Landes forest in southwest France is the largest man-made maritime pine forest in Europe. Pinus pinaster resin is also a useful source of turpentine and rosin. In addition to industrial uses, maritime pine is also a popular ornamental tree, often planted in parks and gardens in areas with warm temperate climates. It has become naturalised in parts of southern England, South Africa and Australia.
This is also true for Maritime Pine Essential OIl. However, Maritime or Sea Pine essential oil adds a different energetic and chemical aspect to that of which we find in most other pine essential oils. As with many pines, this oil is distilled from the needles of the pine tree. Maritime Pine grows near the water’s edge in coastal regions on the Mediterranean so this essential oil can assist us to stay balanced in the ebb and flow of life just as this pine tree does by the sea. We have found that this oil is wonderful when working with the root chakra (1st chakra) for grounding and support.
A review of the French maritime pine bark extract (Pycnogenol), a herbal medication with a diverse clinical pharmacology. Rohdewald P(1). Author information: (1)Institute Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Westfaelische Westfälische-Wilhelms Universitaet, Universität. muenster münster germany 
Pine bark extract has been used in folk medicine all around the world. It has potent antioxidants and compounds that help dilate blood vessels. Pine bark extract is made from the bark of a European coastal pine tree Landes or maritime pine. The scientific name is Pinus maritima. One such product is patented by a French researcher under the name Pycnogenol. 2011. Effects of flavangenol, an extract of French maritime pine bark on collagen-induced arthritis in rats. Hypertension Pycnogenol, French maritime pine bark extract, improves endothelial function of hypertensive patients.