It is a common symptom. There are various causes. If you have any breathing difficulty or other alarming symptoms in addition to wheezing-and you do not know what to do-then see a doctor immediately. This leaflet discusses the main causes of wheezing. Wheezing is a whistling sound that occurs during breathing when the airways are narrowed.
Wheezing results from a narrowing of the airways and typically indicates some difficulty breathing. The narrowing of the airways can be caused by inflammation from asthma, an infection, an allergic reaction, or by a physical obstruction, such as a tumor or a foreign object that's been inhaled. The most common cause of recurrent wheezing is asthma. Possible causes of wheezing include: 1  Allergies. 2  Anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction, such as to an insect bite or medication)
Wheezing is a whistling sound made during inhalation or exhalation. Wheezing can result from either of two respiratory conditions: reduced airflow resulting from narrowing of the airways or congestion in the lungs. Causes of wheezing include asthma and infection and inflammation of the lungs (pneumonia) or bronchi (bronchitis). Another less common cause of wheezing is a serious allergic reaction (anaphylaxis), which may be accompanied by severe shortness of breath, chest pain, and sudden swelling of the throat, face and lips. In some cases, wheezing can be a sign of a serious or life-threatening condition.
The symptoms of wheezing include a musical or whistling sound and labored breathing, particularly when exhaling; sometimes they're accompanied by a feeling of tightening in the chest. You can hear wheezing more loudly if you plug your ears and exhale rapidly, or by using a stethoscope held at the neck or over the lungs. 1 Wheezing is accompanied by a fever of 101° or above; you may have a respiratory infection such as acute bronchitis, sinusitis, or pneumonia. 2  Your wheezing and coughing worsen, especially if you notice a change in the color of your mucus; you may have chronic bronchitis, emphysema, or COPD.
Wheezing is an abnormal sound made during breathing that can be compared to a high-pitched whistling sound. Wheezing is a type of breathing difficulty can be a symptom of a variety of disorders, diseases or conditions. Wheezing can result from infection, inflammation, and airway obstruction and other abnormal processes. Wheezing is made as air passes through narrowed areas in the respiratory tract. 
Wheezing: Symptoms. Symptoms that accompany wheezing vary depending on the underlying cause. Common symptoms include shortness of breath, labored breathing, anxiety, fever, stridor and chest pain. Other coexisting symptoms may include flu-like symptoms, fatigue, weakness, paleness and blueness of the skin (cyanosis). Wheezing is an abnormal sound made during breathing that can be compared to a high-pitched whistling sound. Wheezing is a type of breathing difficulty can be a symptom of a variety of disorders, diseases or conditions. Wheezing can result from infection, inflammation, and airway obstruction and other abnormal processes. Wheezing is made as air passes through narrowed areas in the respiratory tract
Wheezing: Causes, symptoms and treatment. Wheezing is a whistling sound that can be made while breathing that may be a symptom of a Congestive heart failure illness or other causes or conditions. If wheezing is accompanied with difficulty breathing, this may be a medical emergency. The symptoms of wheezing include a musical or whistling sound and laboured breathing, particularly when exhaling; sometimes accompanied by a feeling of tightening in the chest.
The most common causes of wheezing include: 1  Asthma (a chronic respiratory condition that causes spasms in the bronchial tubes). 2  Bronchitis (inflammation of the lining of the bronchial tubes). 3  Bronchiolitis (most common in young children). 4  Smoking. 5  Emphysema (a condition in which the air sacs of the lungs are damaged). 
Wheezing may be a symptom of hayfever, COPD, asthma, acute bronchitis, bronchospasm, swelling in the airways, mucous in the airways, something stuck in the throat or a growth in the airway. Less commonly, wheezing may also be caused by these health problems: 1  Cystic fibrosis. The symptoms of wheezing include a musical or whistling sound and laboured breathing, particularly when exhaling; sometimes accompanied by a feeling of tightening in the chest.