Definition of INSTRUMENT for Kids. 1. 2. : a device used to produce music. 3. 4. : a legal document (as a deed). 5. : a device that measures something (as altitude or temperature). Synonym Discussion of INSTRUMENT. instrument, tool, and utensil mean a device for doing work. instrument is used for a device that can be used to do complicated work. tool is used for a device used for a particular job and often suggests that a special skill is needed to use it.
Definition of PERCUSSION INSTRUMENT. : a musical instrument (as a drum, xylophone, or maraca) sounded by striking, shaking, or scraping. See percussion instrument defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Definition of INSTRUMENT. transitive verb. 1. : to address a legal instrument to. 2. : to score for musical performance: orchestrate. 3. : to equip with instruments especially for measuring and recording data. Synonym Discussion of INSTRUMENT. instrument, tool, and utensil mean a device for doing work. instrument is used for a device that can be used to do complicated work. tool is used for a device used for a particular job and often suggests that a special skill is needed to use it.
A musical instrument is an instrument created or adapted to make musical sounds. In principle, any object that produces sound can be a musical instrument—it is through purpose that the object becomes a musical instrument. The history of musical instruments dates to the beginnings of human culture. Musical instrument classification is a discipline in its own right, and many systems of classification have been used over the years. Instruments can be classified by their effective range, their material composition, their size, etc.
1 Click Import to display the Import Instrument Definitions dialog box. 2  Choose the file that contains instrument definitions for your manufacturer, and then click Open. 3  Your Cakewalk software will display a list of all the instrument definitions in the file. 4  Choose one or more instruments from the list, and click OK. 1 In the Define Instruments and Names dialog box, right-click the word Instruments at the top of the Instrument tree, and choose Add Instrument from the pop-up menu. 2  Type a name for the new instrument and press ENTER. 3  The new instrument is provided with default settings for all of its characteristics.
DEFINITION of 'Instrument'. 1) A tradeable asset or negotiable item such as a security, commodity, derivative or index, or any item that underlies a derivative. An instrument is a means by which something of value is transferred, held or accomplished. 2) An economic variable that can be controlled or altered by government policymakers in to cause a desired effect in other economic indicators.
Full Definition of INSTRUMENT. 1. : a device used to produce music; also: a singing voice. 2. a: a means whereby something is achieved, performed, or furthered b: one used by another as a means or aid: dupe, tool. Synonym Discussion of INSTRUMENT. instrument, tool, and utensil mean a device for doing work. instrument is used for a device that can be used to do complicated work. tool is used for a device used for a particular job and often suggests that a special skill is needed to use it.
1 Choose the file that contains instrument definitions for your manufacturer, and then click Open. 2  Your Cakewalk software will display a list of all the instrument definitions in the file. 3  Choose one or more instruments from the list, and click OK. 4  Click Close to close the Define Instruments and Names dialog box. 1 In the Define Instruments and Names dialog box, right-click the word Instruments at the top of the Instrument tree, and choose Add Instrument from the pop-up menu. 2  Type a name for the new instrument and press ENTER. 3  The new instrument is provided with default settings for all of its characteristics.
Learner's definition of INSTRUMENT. [count]. 1. : a tool or device used for a particular purpose. instruments of torture. The murder weapon was a blunt instrument. [=an object without sharp edges or points]. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. especially: a tool or device designed to do careful and exact work.
instrument. n. 1. a mechanical implement or tool, esp one used for precision work: surgical instrument. 2. (Instruments) music any of various contrivances or mechanisms that can be played to produce musical tones or sounds. 3. an important factor or agency in something: her evidence was an instrument in his arrest. 4. a person used by another to gain an end; dupe; tool. 5. (General Physics) a measuring device, such as a pressure gauge or ammeter. 6. (Aeronautics). a. a device or system for use in navigation or control, esp of aircraft.