The three most common types of mountains are fault-block, folded, and volcanic mountains. The three most common land forms in the state of Washington are  lakes, rivers and mountains. One of the major land forms is Puget  Sound and the Olympic Mountains. 2 people found this useful. Edit.
Some have trees growing on their sides and very high mountains have snow on their peaks. Some common features of mountains include the following: 1  the summit, or the top of a mountain; 2  the slope, or side of the mountain; and. 3  a very steep valley between young mountains, known as a gorge. 
The mountains are different in their appearance, and in their formation. Let’s take a look at each of the major mountain types. Mount Everest from Kalapatthar. Photo: Pavel Novak. Fold Mountains. The most common type of mountain in the world are called fold mountains. When you see vast mountain ranges stretching on for thousands of kilometers, those are fold mountains. Fold mountains are formed when two of the Earth’s tectonic plates collide head on; like two cars crashing together
Fold mountains are the most common type of mountain. The world’s largest mountain ranges are fold mountains. These ranges were formed over millions of years. Fold mountains are formed when two plates collide head on, and their edges crumbled, much the same way as a piece of paper folds when pushed together. 
Answers. Best Answer: The mountains are of three types in principle: 1- formed by accumulation, 2- Formed by denudation, and 3- formed by sudden vertical movements of earth crust. All other types are a combination of two or more of the three types mentioned so far. 1- accumulation type-This group has volcanic mountains. These are built up layer upon layer of The lava deposits on the existing slopes. they are sub classified into acidic or non acidic lava types. 2- Denudation type-This type mostly occur in sedimentary regions. The pre existing sedimentary layers and strata undergo differential erosion carving vast sediments and leaving sculpted out mountains. Himalayas, Alps are chains of such numerous
Cinder cone volcanoes (also called scoria cones) are the most common type of volcano and are the symmetrical cone shaped volcanoes we typically think of. They may occur as single volcanoes or as secondary volcanoes on the sides of stratovolcanoes or shield volcanoes. A volcano is a vent or fissure in Earth's crust through which lava, ash, rock and gases erupt. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick.
Compare and contrast folded mountains, volcanic mountains, and fault-block mountains. Key Terms folded mountain volcanic mountain fault-block mountain Notes: (11-3) Mountains throughout the world have formed as a result of pressures (compression, tension, & shear) deep within the lithosphere. 2. Compare and contrast folded mountains, volcanic mountains, and fault-block mountains. Key Terms. folded mountain volcanic mountain fault-block mountain. Notes: (11-3). Mountains throughout the world have formed as a result of pressures (compression, tension, & shear) deep within the lithosphere. The types of pressures present have a great impact on the physical characteristics of the mountain ranges
The most common way for mountains to form is when two lithospheric plates collide. This can cause volcanism and folding of rocks in the crust forming mountain belts. Good exam … ples of these are the Andes and the Himalayas. 4 people found this useful. 