ISIS recruiting and marketing are essentially a rip-off of the Crusades with the important difference that they have access to a worldwide communication medium that is essentially unregulated. They hold out to alienated young people the promise of a better life. One of the more alarming aspects of the ISIS recruit demographics is that many are well-educated. This may be because uneducated people are neither particularly interested in ideology, nor particularly vulnerable to the sense of alienation with their own society that drives young people into radical causes.
Hear VOI’s Ari Abramowitz and Jeremy Gimpel interview Palestinian-American Walid Shoebat, a self-proclaimed former terrorist and convert to Christianity, who reveals the motivations of ISIS terrorists. 
The Zoolander Theory of Terrorism. One culturally prevalent answer to the why question is that terrorists are “driven” or “pushed” to do it, and that the decisive driving or pushing agent is pathology. This answer has evolved in recent years in line with advances in knowledge and moral sensibilities. Because these questions are about the circumstances of terrorism, and not the interior world of terrorists, they are not only more intellectually tractable for scholars, but also more directly relevant to efforts to prevent or stop terrorist recruitment.
In Syria, ISIS has grown in part because it is seen as a better alternative to the many brigand-like groups operating in towns under the misnomer umbrella term of the Free Syrian Army, Amos and Feldman said. “What ISIS offered was order, and people were craving order in Syria. The second thing ISIS offered was a respite from the bombing,” said Amos, noting that the Syrian government largely refrained from bombing ISIS-held territories.
End-of-the-world cults flourish in stressful times and in periods of rapid social change, like the present. That offers some clues to the otherwise baffling phenomenon of young people from developed countries streaming into Iraq and Syria to join ISIS. One of the more alarming aspects of the ISIS recruit demographics is that many are well-educated. This may be because uneducated people are neither particularly interested in ideology, nor particularly vulnerable to the sense of alienation with their own society that drives young people into radical causes.
There are many different kinds of recruits with varied motivations and the reality on the ground in Iraq is likely very different from what recruits expect based upon slick Internet marketing by the cult. One of the more alarming aspects of the ISIS recruit demographics is that many are well-educated. This may be because uneducated people are neither particularly interested in ideology, nor particularly vulnerable to the sense of alienation with their own society that drives young people into radical causes.
What motivates ISIS members: Letter to the Editor. isis.JPG. Smoke rises after clashes between Kurdish peshmerga forces and Islamic State group militants at a village just south of the oil-rich city of Kirkuk in Iraq. It is clear from what Islam truly teaches that the men who commit these vicious crimes are not motivated by religion. Rather, they are motivated by economic and political gains. I believe, in order to stop ISIS, we must look to their sources of funding and start from there.
ISIS is an Islamic wet dream i n the eyes of potential recruits, this is fantasy made reality. It’s everything that a would-be jihadist could have hoped for, they have results. They’re capturing cities, they’re flaunting weaponry. They’re creating a safe haven, or refuge, where they can live. Stopped reading when you brought up Israel…. not because I have an issue one way or the other in regard to that conflict, but your issues with human bias had absolutely nothing to do with the topic of your article. Reply ↓. MUSLIM KILLING MUSLIMS IS VITAL GOAL TO AMERICA AND ZIONISTS.
ISIS have quickly swept across vast regions of Iraq, but who are they and what do they want? Brian Katulis and Kevin Sutcliffe join Chris Matthews to discuss. ... 
Now three large jihadist groups threaten political and religious stability in the region. Al-Qaeda, currently led by the Egyptian al-Zawahiri, is based in Pakistan. Jabhat al-Nusra heads the arm of al-Qaeda recently expanded to Syria. And ISIS, splintered from and disavowed by al-Qaeda, is attempting to unite disenfranchised Sunnis across Iraq and Syria. The success of ISIS with destabilizing political forces in Iraq and Syria has increased tension in the surrounding countries of Turkey, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia, who fear they may be the next to attract its attention.