The size of mitochondria is similar to that of bacterial cell. Mitochondria have two membranes; a smooth outer membrane, and an inner folded membrane. Inner membrane has numerous layers called cristae, which separate the mitochondrion into two sections; a matrix, and an intermembrane space. 
Confidence votes 154. 0.5 micrometers = 0.0005 millimeters Bacteria Escherichia coli cells, an average sized bacterium, are about 2 micrometres (μm) long and 0.5 μm in diameter, Mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) Mitochondrion=0.5-10 micrometers (μm) in diameter. Actually: Mitochondria are in both animal and plant cells. They contain a circular chromosome that contains DNA. They are where most of the ATP is made inside a eukaryotic cell. They likely evolved from once free-living bacteria.
What does a little thing inside of your cells have to do with bacteria, energy, money, and your body's life sustaining processes? Well, in one word, 'mitochondrion' is the answer! In this lesson, you will learn about mitochondria and their function. Mitochondria were likely once free-living bacteria that eventually came to inhabit larger and more complex cells called eukaryotic cells in a mutualistic relationship that gave mitochondria food and protection and the host eukaryotic cells extra energy for their own functions and survival.
The process is called oxidative phosphorylation and it happens inside mitochondria. In the matrix of mitochondria the reactions known as the citric acid or Krebs cycle produce a chemical called NADH. NADH is then used by enzymes embedded in the mitochondrial inner membrane to generate adenosine triphosphate (ATP). In ATP the energy is stored in the form of chemical bonds. 
(µm micrometers) A single mitochondrion- 0.2-1 µm wide x3-10 µm long (can differ very much depending on the cell) Chloroplasts - 3 µm wide x 5 µm long As you can see mitochondria can often be bigger than bacteria cells... and viruses are way smaller then bacteria! 
The number of mitochondria in a cell can vary widely by organism, tissue, and cell type. For instance, red blood cells have no mitochondria, whereas liver cells can have more than 2000. The organelle is composed of compartments that carry out specialized functions. The inner membrane is home to around 1/5 of the total protein in a mitochondrion. In addition, the inner membrane is rich in an unusual phospholipid, cardiolipin. This phospholipid was originally discovered in cow hearts in 1942, and is usually characteristic of mitochondrial and bacterial plasma membranes.
Mitochondria Mitochondria are rod-shaped organelles that can be considered the power generators of the cell, converting oxygen and nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the chemical energy currency of the cell that powers the cell's metabolic activities. 
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. The inner membrane is home to around 1/5 of the total protein in a mitochondrion. In addition, the inner membrane is rich in an unusual phospholipid, cardiolipin. This phospholipid was originally discovered in cow hearts in 1942, and is usually characteristic of mitochondrial and bacterial plasma membranes.
So, kind of by definition, a bacteria can't have a mitochondria, or it wouldn't be a bacteria. Now, bacteria still carry out cellular respiration, which is the primary purpose of the mitochondria in eukaryotes (cells with a nucleus and membrane bound organelles). Bacteria can do this by anchoring some of the proteins that we use in the mitochondria on their own cell membranes and doing cellular respiration there