Foam Board Insulation. At Owens Corning, we deliver proven, advanced insulation solutions and leading-edge tools designed to help our customers maximize their investment — today, tomorrow and for future generations. 
1 Pre-cut sheets of white foam board with polystyrene core. 2  White foam board in pre-cut sheets are uniform and even in size. 3  Lightweight but strong and rigid to resist denting and crushing. 4  Resilient polystyrene core bounces back after cutting to keep the board uniform edge to edge. 1 Board Size: 8W x 10H x 1D. 2  Pre-cut sheets of white foam board with polystyrene core. 3  White foam board in pre-cut sheets are uniform and even in size. 4  Lightweight but strong and rigid to resist denting and crushing.
History. The original white foam core board was made in 1/8 inch (3 mm) and 3/16 inch (5 mm) thicknesses for the graphic arts industry by Monsanto Company under the trade name Fome-Cor starting in 1957. Monsanto sold the business to International Paper in 1993, and the business is currently operated by 3A Composites. 
Rigid foam board insulation cost-per-R-value. On a cost-per-R-value basis, rigid foam is more expensive than fiberglass or cellulose, and it's definitely more difficult to install around obstacles or in odd-shaped spaces. Here are the three main types of rigid foam insulation: 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Foam board, also known as foamcore or foam core, is a backing material widely used in framing art. It is made of a type of Styrofoam™ covered on both sides with paper or plastic so that the foam is the core of the sandwich. 
8 sheets of 3/16 foam board or. Combination of both (see chart below). You may also purchase a full pre-packaged carton of 25 sheets and get a discount! You can order all mat board, all foam board, or combine them and get a little bit of both. 
Disadvantages. If not sealed with tape or spray foam, air will leak between the joints of foam board insulation sections, and between the insulation and wall studs or other adjoining material. Foam board can only be installed in existing walls by removing the wall sheathing and any existing installation. 
This can be an advantage if you have space limitations. Polyiso foam board insulation is available in a variety of compressive strengths. Compressive strength refers to the ability of a rigid foam board to resist deformation and maintain its shape when subjected to a force or load. 
Sintra PVC Foam. Sintra PVC Foam board is a very durable pvc sheet. Sintra PVC Foam is for photo mounting, display construction and a variety of other uses. Excellent for outdoor use. 