We certainly do-granted, it is a special version of the English language-truly our own! Used by the grass roots people of the Bahamas and also by educated Bahamians who want to relate to their roots! Non-Bahamians of this world certainly would have a difficult time understanding the Bahamian lingo !
Bahamian English. Our friendly nature makes it easy to strike up a conversation with a Bahamian. Try it for yourself. English is our official language. Although, you might hear Bahamian English. It’s a mixture of Queen’s diction, African influence and island dialect. The “h” is often dropped, so it sounds like “ouse” for “house” or “t’anks” for “thanks.”.
Bahamian English Creole is a dialect of English spoken in the Bahamas and by Bahamian diasporas. Yinna children bettus behave yaself.. Y'all ga get this belt cross ya backside today.. All a ya'll ga get cut hip in a minute.. 
Of COURSE WE DO…. we are so clever that we speak two forms of the English language.. Bahamian Standard English yes which mean clear words and Bahamian Dialect or WHA DA SAY in DA ISLAND YA TALK BAD. 
The Bahamas is an English Speaking Country. The local people on various Islands speak with a Dialect which is noticeable different from other Caribbean Islands. I believe that it is a mixture of Scottish, English, American, and African. It is very pleasant to hear. Source(s): I am Bahamian and I live in Nassau
Since a national language of The Bahamas is English, you should do fine just saying  Hello  In case you are traveling to other countries in Latin America & Caribbean or elsewhere in the world, here are some more helpful words from our The Bahamas Greetings category: Fine, thank you. 
Bahamian is an English-based creole language spoken by approximately 400,000 people in the Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos Islands. Bahamian is spoken by both white and black Bahamians, although in slightly different forms. Bahamian also tends to be more prevalent in certain areas of the Bahama
Very colorful. There is no official second language in the Bahamas (which is a good thing), though everyone is free to speak whatever language they like (unlike those poor French whose government forces them to speak their language!).. Source(s): http://www.thebahamasguide.com/facts/lan... ranunculusviridis · 8 years ago.
There is no official second language in the Bahamas (which is a good thing), though everyone is free to speak whatever language they like (unlike those poor French whose government forces them to speak their language!). 
Until 1973, the Bahamas-like many other Caribbean nations-was a commonwealth and property of the British empire. The official language of the Bahamas is still English, but many Bahamians speak a unique dialect of the language. Here, the locals combine British English with language taken from their native African, Irish, or Scottish heritage. The islands' Haitian residents also speak Creole. 