AHP is a patented synergistic blend of commonly used, safe ingredients that when combined with low levels of hydrogen peroxide dramatically increase its germicidal potency and cleaning performance. 
The analytic hierarchy process (AHP) is a structured technique for organizing and analyzing complex decisions, based on mathematics and psychology. It was developed by Thomas L. Saaty in the 1970s and has been extensively studied and refined since then. The first step in the analytic hierarchy process is to model the problem as a hierarchy. In doing this, participants explore the aspects of the problem at levels from general to detailed, then express it in the multileveled way that the AHP requires.
Adjustment of the attribute scales proceeds until the satisfactory optimal probability is achieved. AHP is a simpler form of MAUT where the paired comparisons are used to derive the utility functions represented by the priority or weight vector from contributing criteria and alternatives in the hierarchy. Despite AHP’s criticisms, the methodology has been popular, fairly simple to apply, and is the leading approach used for multi-criteria decision-making [14]. Other decision-making alternatives have limitations similar to AHP. NASA used AHP to design mission-success factors for human MARS Exploration [18].
While it can be used by individuals working on straightforward decisions, the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) is most useful where teams of people are working on complex problems, especially those with high stakes, involving human perceptions and judgments, whose resolutions have long-term repercussions. The first step in the analytic hierarchy process is to model the problem as a hierarchy. In doing this, participants explore the aspects of the problem at levels from general to detailed, then express it in the multileveled way that the AHP requires.
Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) is one of Multi Criteria decision making method that was originally developed by Prof. Thomas L. Saaty. In short, it is a method to derive ratio scales from paired comparisons. The input can be obtained from actual measurement such as price, weight etc., or from subjective opinion such as satisfaction feelings and preference. AHP allow some small inconsistency in judgment because human is not always consistent. You may observe that the number of comparisons is a combination of the number of things to be compared. Since we have 3 objects (Apple, Banana and Cheery), we have 3 comparisons. Table below shows the number of
AHP 1 © Pearson Education Limited 2004 THE ANALYTIC HIERARCHY PROCESS (AHP) INTRODUCTION The Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) is due to Saaty (1980) and is often referred to, eponymously, as the Saaty method. The AHP is sometimes sadly misused and the analysis stops with the calculation of the eigenvector from the pairwise comparisons of relative importance (sometimes without even computing the CR!) but the AHP’s true subtlety lies in the fact that it is, as its name says, a Hierarchy process.
SESUG 2012 1 Paper SD-04 Decision-Making using the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) and SAS/IML ® Melvin Alexander, Social Security Administration, Baltimore, MD ABSTRACT SAS/IML ® can be used to implement the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP). Despite AHP’s criticisms, the methodology has been popular, fairly simple to apply, and is the leading approach used for multi-criteria decision-making [14]. Other decision-making alternatives have limitations similar to AHP. NASA used AHP to design mission-success factors for human MARS Exploration [18].
An AHP hierarchy is a structured means of modeling the decision at hand. It consists of an overall goal, a group of options or alternatives for reaching the goal, and a group of factors or criteria that relate the alternatives to the goal. The first step in the analytic hierarchy process is to model the problem as a hierarchy. In doing this, participants explore the aspects of the problem at levels from general to detailed, then express it in the multileveled way that the AHP requires.
Complete this section of the AHP Award Modification form if there is a change to basic project information including project name, location, sponsor, or member. Provide an explanation of the request. If a proposed change impacts a project’s scoring element, complete Section II. Only Bank members may submit AHP grant applications. Affordable housing developers and community organizations interested in competing for AHP funds in the next annual funding competition should contact a Bank member early in their planning process about partnering on an application.
The design of any AHP hierarchy will depend not only on the nature of the problem at hand, but also on the knowledge, judgments, values, opinions, needs, wants, etc. of the participants in the decision-making process. The first step in the analytic hierarchy process is to model the problem as a hierarchy. In doing this, participants explore the aspects of the problem at levels from general to detailed, then express it in the multileveled way that the AHP requires.