Alberta is the second westernmost of the 10 provinces in Canada. (Only British Columbia is farther west.) Alberta includes parts of the Canadian Rockies, and is known for its oil and natural gas fields and cattle farming. Alberta has a lot to offer visitors. 1 Lethbridge-is a city in southern Alberta with a population of about 83,500 and most famous for its canyons. 2  Medicine Hat-is in southern Alberta with a population nearing 60,000 and is interesting. 3  Red Deer-is a city in between Edmonton and Calgary at about 90,00 people and is a major service centre.
Alberta’s Tomahawk Cattle Ranch. To be recognized as an industry leader is what most businesses aspire to. Alberta’s Tomahawk Cattle Ranch is testament to how hard work, visionary thinking, and a drive to honor both the environment and the animals that live on it can result in gaining awards and industry applause.
Awarded The Environmental Stewardship Award in 2013 by Alberta Beef Producers – Tomahawk Cattle Ranch provides a history of well planned and executed ranching – a legacy that is primed for continued growth and success. Alberta’s Tomahawk Cattle Ranch is testament to how hard work, visionary thinking, and a drive to honor both the environment and the animals that live on it can result in gaining awards and industry applause.
Bar U Ranch is a working museum on the Cowboy Trail south of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Harry Longabaugh, 'The Sundance Kid', worked briefly at the Bar U Ranch. The Cowboy Trail is 700 KM (437 miles) of historically significant highway through high ranching country in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains between lofty mountains and big blue sky, endless prairie.
It is a monument to the pioneers in Alberta and the work they did to establish many of the benefits we enjoy today. In my humble opinion, the Bar U Ranch is very impressive and a completely viable day trip from Calgary. Harry Longabaugh, 'The Sundance Kid', worked briefly at the Bar U Ranch. The Cowboy Trail is 700 KM (437 miles) of historically significant highway through high ranching country in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains between lofty mountains and big blue sky, endless prairie.
Integrity Ranching is a family based operation originally founded from Patricia, Alberta, and incorporates over 40 years of quality beef and sheep production. In order to meet cash flow requirements, we offer nutrition services in Canada with products that enhance the profitability of producers while addressing and preventing issues in organic, dairy, beef, small ruminants and equine livestock.
While this certainly altered the character of ranching in Alberta, cattlemen remained a viable force in the province—a fact which was reinforced by their interest in the budding oil industry during the 1920s. This is a good book. It is well researched and readable. The Canadian Prairie West and the Ranching Frontier 1874-1924. David H. Breen. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1983. viii, 302 pp. ill., maps, ISBN 0-8020-5548-6. Riders on W. W. Stuart ranch, Jumping Pound, Alberta, late 1880s.
Welcome to Stonewater Ranch. Stonewater Ranch is a 370 acre resort development located in the scenic foothills of Alberta. Just two hours from Edmonton and one hour from the gates of Jasper National Park, it will feature a premiere 18 hole golf course and an equine facility. 
1 Edmonton-the capital city of Alberta and the second largest urban population (812,000 city; 1,159,000 metro region). 2  It is home to a vibrant cultural community, the largest urban parkland system in North America, North America's largest mall, Canada's only Indy race, and is dubbed Canada's Festival City. 1 Lethbridge-is a city in southern Alberta with a population of about 83,500 and most famous for its canyons. 2  Medicine Hat-is in southern Alberta with a population nearing 60,000 and is interesting. 3  Red Deer-is a city in between Edmonton and Calgary at about 90,00 people and is a major service centre.
Alberta’s Tomahawk Cattle Ranch is rich in quality – from soil and plants to wildlife – the quality of this ranch runs deep and presents a gem of an opportunity. Alberta’s Tomahawk Cattle Ranch is testament to how hard work, visionary thinking, and a drive to honor both the environment and the animals that live on it can result in gaining awards and industry applause.