1 Facts About Mongolia Mongolia is a country located in Asia. 2  If you look at a map, you will find Mongolia in Central Asia, situated between Russia to the north and China to the south. 3  The capital …. The proposed Altaic language family takes its name from the mountain range. The Gobi Desert: The Gobi (Mongolian: Govi or Gov', gravel-covered plain) is the largest desert region in Asia. It covers parts of northern and northwestern China, and of southern Mongolia.
Mongolia, the world's largest landlocked nation, is located in east-central Asia between China and Russia. It covers an area of 1,565,000 square kilometers (604,247 square miles), or slightly more than the state of Alaska. Rainfall is considerably heavier in the north, and nearly nonexistent in the southern Gobi Desert. Mongolia's annual average rainfall is a low 20 to 22 centimeters (8 to 9 inches), receiving an average of 36 centimeters (14 inches) in the north and fewer than 10 centimeters (4 inches) in the south.
1 Facts About Mongolia Mongolia is a country located in Asia. 2  If you look at a map, you will find Mongolia in Central Asia, situated between Russia to the north and China to the south. 3  The capital …. The Sahara Desert is the largest hot desert in the world and  covers most of the continent of North Africa.   However, the largest desert in the world is actually Antar … ctica.
The Gobi Desert. P.S. I think its sorta stupid that in the related questions there is a question that asks, 'What desert is located between China and Mongolia.' Same question, … same answer. The Sahara Desert is the largest hot desert in the world and  covers most of the continent of North Africa.   However, the largest desert in the world is actually Antar … ctica.
Alashan Plateau -- Located south and southwest of the Eastern Gobi Desert Steppe, the Alashan Plateau covers some 260,000 square miles. The largest of the Gobi's ecoregions, it has a terrain of 6500- to 8500-foot-high mountain ranges interspersed with intermontane basins. The desert, according to Wild World -- an important source on the Gobi Desert -- encompasses five broad, and diverse, ecoregions: Eastern Gobi Desert Steppe -- The easternmost of the five ecoregions, the steppe (a plain with few to no trees) covers more than 100,000 square miles at an elevation of 3300 to 5000 feet.
The Kalahari Desert ranks sixth in terms of largest deserts by area in the world. South America's Patagonian Desert is the seventh largest desert, at 670,000 square kilometers. The Patagonian Desert is located in Argentina and Chile, between the Andes Mountains and the Atlantic Ocean. The third largest desert in the world, and the largest non-polar desert is the Sahara. Situated in North Africa, the Sahara makes up parts of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Eritrea, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia, and Western Sahara.
The Arabian Desert is a vast desert wilderness stretching from Yemen to the Persian Gulf and from Oman to Jordan and Iraq. This desert is located in the Middle East, and we have additional details and map at this link: Gobi Desert. The Gobi Desert is the largest desert in Asia, covering 500,000 square miles. Extending from northern China into Mongolia, the Gobi Desert receives an average of 7 inches of rainfall each year because the Himalaya mountains block rain clouds from reaching the region. Kara Kum Desert. 
3 people found this useful. 1  Facts About Mongolia Mongolia is a country located in Asia. 2  If you look at a map, you will find Mongolia in Central Asia, situated between Russia to the north and China to the south. The Sahara Desert is the largest hot desert in the world and  covers most of the continent of North Africa.   However, the largest desert in the world is actually Antar … ctica.
At 1,564,116 square kilometres (603,909 sq mi), Mongolia is the 19th largest and one of the most sparsely populated independent countries in the world, with a population of around 3 million people. It is also the world's second-largest landlocked country. 