Terminal dehydration is not distressing, and the only symptom of dehydration is a dry mouth. Patients do not feel thirsty, just as starving people do not feel hungry. (Intravenous fluids are rarely administered to patients dying in a British hospice, and then only if the patient is complaining of thirst which is rare.). 
Dehydration happens when more fluid is lost by the body than is replaced by drinking liquids. The risk of dehydration increases in hot weather and because of severe vomiting or diarrhoea. Symptoms of dehydration can range from mild to life threatening. You can help prevent dehydration by drinking enough fluids. 
Symptoms of moderate to severe dehydration include: 1  low blood pressure. 2  fainting. 3  severe muscle contractions in the arms, legs, stomach, and back. 4  convulsions. 5  a bloated stomach. 6  heart failure. 7  sunken fontanelle-soft spot on a infants head. 8  sunken dry eyes, with few or no tears. 
Steps a person can take at home to prevent severe dehydration include: 1  People with vomiting and diarrhea can try to alter their diet and use medications to control symptoms to minimize water loss. 2  Acetaminophen or ibuprofen may be used to control fever. Causes of Dehydration: Diabetes. In people with diabetes, elevated blood sugar levels cause sugar to spill into the urine, and water then follows, which can cause significant dehydration. For this reason, frequent urination and excessive thirst are among the symptoms of diabetes.
Does Hiv Cause Dehydration. Here's a taste of what TheBody.com has to offer on this topic: Get the Facts. ...if they are a side effect of treatment or a symptom of something more serious. Diarrhea and HIV Diarrhea is one of the most common side effects of HIV, intestinal infections, and HIV drugs. Left untreated, it can cause dehydration (loss of water and nutrients) and wasting (unintentional weight loss). You have diarrhea if you have watery stools or if you have three or more bowel movements each day. 
1 Dehydration occurs when water intake is less than water loss. 2  Symptoms range from mild to life-threatening. 3  Prevention is the important first step in treating dehydration. 4  The young and the elderly are especially susceptible to dehydration. Causes of Dehydration: Diabetes. In people with diabetes, elevated blood sugar levels cause sugar to spill into the urine, and water then follows, which can cause significant dehydration. For this reason, frequent urination and excessive thirst are among the symptoms of diabetes.
Signs and symptoms. The longer you go without taking in enough fluid, the more dehydrated you will become. Although thirst is one way your body alerts you to drink more, other symptoms of dehydration include: 1  A dry or sticky mouth or a swollen tongue. 2  Fatigue or weakness. 3  Irritability. 4  Dizziness or lightheadedness. 5  Nausea. 
If you're a healthy adult, you can usually treat mild to moderate dehydration by drinking more fluids, such as water or a sports drink (Gatorade, Powerade, others). Get immediate medical care if you develop severe signs and symptoms such as extreme thirst, a lack of urination, shriveled skin, dizziness and confusion. Treat children and older adults with greater caution. Severe dehydration, a medical emergency, can cause: 1  Extreme thirst. 2  Extreme fussiness or sleepiness in infants and children; irritability and confusion in adults. 3  Very dry mouth, skin and mucous membranes. 4  Little or no urination — any urine that is produced will be darker than normal. 5  Sunken eyes.
For instance, symptoms and side effects of HIV/AIDS medication – including fever, night sweats, vomiting and diarrhea – can all lead to a rapid loss of water and electrolytes, which triggers dehydration. For patients, managing hydration when these symptoms are present is critical for maintaining proper hydration. Common Risk Factors for Dehydration for People Living with HIV/AIDS: 1  Diarrhea: Diarrhea may be caused by HIV/AIDS or antiretroviral drugs used to treat it. 1 Night Sweats or Fever: Sweat consists mostly of water and electrolytes. 2  Therefore, episodes of excessive sweating or high fever, which increases sweat rate so the body can cool itself, can exacerbate or cause
Others found that dehydration was a significant risk factor for developing thrombo-embolic complications, infectious diseases, kidney stones, and obstipation. These findings demonstrate the importance of timely diagnosis and adequate treatment of dehydration to reduce its serious effects on older adult patients. Unfortunately, an early diagnosis is often difficult because the classical signs of dehydration may be absent or misleading in an older patient. 