Some dermatologists may contend the jury is still out on whether diet affects your complexion, but we’ve been conducting our own research – in our homes and on ourselves – and the judgment is unanimous. A healthy diet is synonymous with gorgeous skin. Just ask raw foodists where they get their luminous glow.
Wild Salmon. Wild salmon — not farm-raised — is one of the best food sources for omega-3 fatty acids, which helps keep your skin supple and moisturized. Salmon also has selenium, a mineral that protects the skin from sun exposure. The vitamin D in salmon keeps your bones and teeth strong and healthy, too.
Best Diet For Glowing Skin That Works Wonders. Glowing skin is the mark of a healthy person. We all strive to attain this healthy glow but due to our busy schedules. we sometimes tend to neglect this. Also smoking, drinking and unhealthy snacking results in various skin problems and dull skin.
How Water Benefits Your Skin. Drinking water is one of the best things you can do to keep your skin in shape. It keeps your skin moist -- and that makes fine lines and wrinkles less noticeable. It also helps your cells take in nutrients and get rid of toxins.
1 Vitamin A from Cartenoids: deals with inflammation, encourages cell turnover (for natural exfoliation) and strengthens your skin’s defenses against clogged pores. 2  Add a spinach or kale salad with tomatoes to your daily diet and see what happens.
Food rich in Omega-3 fatty acids are essential for providing skin with a healthy dose of natural oils (good fats) that in turn reduces inflammation, acne, scaly skin and redness. We can acquire smooth, healthy and glowing skin through consumption of nuts like walnuts and almonds and fish like salmon, trout and herring.
Eat for great skin. You probably think about how nutrition affects your internal health and your weight, but eating the right foods can also improve the quality of your skin. “You can look at food as the raw materials for a factory,” says Ian Koo, a naturopathic doctor based in Mississauga, Ont.
If you eat high quantities of processed foods, sugar, caffeine, and fried foods, chances are, your skin is not going to be looking its most radiant. But, loading up on fruits and veggies, whole grains, and vitamin-rich foods makes for a healthy body and, in turn, healthier, more radiant skin.