The VAVS Mission. Provide a structured volunteer program under the management of VA compensated employees in cooperation with community resources to serve America’s veterans and their families with dignity and compassion. 
Veterans Affairs Voluntary Services (VAVS) administers all the volunteers that work at a Veterans Hospital or Ambulatory Care facility. Veterans organizations such as the MCL, American Legion, VFW among others, have their members volunteer to work in varying capacities at the local facility. A deputy works with the representative as a full working partner. The deputy is appointed the same as the representative, attends the VAVS Executive Board meetings, assists in the completion of the AJR and serves on subcommittees as requested by the Chairperson of the VAVS Executive Board.
Variable Air Volume (VAV) is a type of heating, ventilating, and/or air-conditioning (HVAC) system. Unlike constant air volume (CAV) systems, which supply a constant airflow at a variable temperature, VAV systems vary the airflow at a constant temperature. The air blower's flow rate is variable. For a single VAV air handler that serves multiple thermal zones, the flow rate to each zone must be varied as well.
Request Further Information. The mission of VA Voluntary Service is to provide a structured volunteer program under the management of VA compensated employees in cooperation with community resources to serve America’s veterans and their families with dignity and compassion. With more than 350 national and community organizations supporting the program, VAVS is advised by a National Advisory Committee (NAC), composed of 63 major veteran, civic, and service organizations. AMVETS is proud to be one of the organizations that serve on the NAC.
1. District Commanders are responsible for nominating individuals to serve in the Capacities of VAVS Representative and Deputy Representative at Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA) medical centers and outpatient clinics (the latter if deemed appropriate by the respective DVA Voluntary Services Officer (VSO). VAVS REPRESENTATIVES: 2. Are the official representatives to the DVA facilities to which they are appointed in all aspects of The American Legion’s participation in the Veterans Affairs Voluntary Service (VAVS) program. 3.
President’s United We Serve. VA Voluntary Service (VAVS) has joined President Barack Obama’s United We Serve initiative. VAVS is committed to engaging American citizens in service during the summer months and provide lasting benefits to the veterans and communities in which they live through volunteer service. 1. Please switch auto forms mode to off. 2. Hit enter to expand a main menu option (Health, Benefits, etc). 3. To enter and activate the submenu links, hit the down arrow. You will now be able to tab or arrow up or down through the submenu options to access/activate the submenu links.
The letter Vav is the sixth letter of the Aleph-Bet, having the numeric value of six. The pictograph for Vav looks like a tent peg, whereas the classical Hebrew script (ketav Ashurit) is constructed of a vertical line and conjoined Yod. 
Founded in 1946 to provide for veterans in VA healthcare facilities, the Department of Veterans Affairs Voluntary Service (VAVS) is the largest volunteer program in the Federal government, with more than 350 national and community organizations involved in support of their mission. VAVS National Advisory Committee Volunteer of the Year Award – This award is given annually by the NAC during their annual meeting. It is to recognize extraordinary service to our nation’s veterans. Posts or Departments may submit the name of an outstanding AMVETS VAVS volunteer for consideration.
A VAVS Representative is a volunteer at the VA and is a member of a recognized Veterans organization. The representative is the liaison between their organization and the VA and serves on the VAVS Executive Committee. The committee is comprised of representatives from many different organizations. A deputy works with the representative as a full working partner. The deputy is appointed the same as the representative, attends the VAVS Executive Board meetings, assists in the completion of the AJR and serves on subcommittees as requested by the Chairperson of the VAVS Executive Board.
VA Voluntary Service (VAVS) has joined President Barack Obama’s United We Serve initiative. 1. Please switch auto forms mode to off. 2. Hit enter to expand a main menu option (Health, Benefits, etc). 3. To enter and activate the submenu links, hit the down arrow. You will now be able to tab or arrow up or down through the submenu options to access/activate the submenu links.