1 The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 2  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 3  Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists
Generally, eye exam costs can range from less than $50 (usually at a retail store or optical chain) to $100 or more (usually at a medical clinic or private eye doctor's office). Also, eye exams for contact lenses nearly always cost more than routine eye exams to update your eyeglasses prescription. When comparing how much an eye exam costs, be sure you are comparing apples to apples.. A comprehensive eye exam should include at least the following: The cost of an eye exam can vary significantly, based on where you get your exam and other factors, including: 1  Whether the exam is performed by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist. 2  The tests that are included in the exam. 3  Whether the exam includes a contact lens fitting or other contact lens-related services.
Standard eye test costs at high street opticians. To give you an idea of how much the offers above will save you, here's a round-up of prices at some of the leading high street opticians : This is a rundown of all the current free eye test deals, incl Tesco's ongoing free offer. Remember if you're under 16 (or up to 19 and in full-time education) or over 60, you're already entitled to free eye-tests on the NHS. And if you live in Scotland, EVERYONE gets free eye tests.
could add years to your sight. The process of an eye test is very simple and thorough. We recommend you have your eyes checked by a specialist at least every 2 years, or more frequently if recommended by your optician. The eye examination not only provides an accurate assessment of your ability to see, but also gauges the general health of your eyes. Once your eye test has been completed, your results will be handed over to an associate to help you choose the right glasses. At Vision Express we have a wide range of frames and lenses to choose from, suiting many different style and budgets. We will help you choose the correct frame and lenses for your prescription
Book your eye test appointment today. In just three easy steps you can book an eye test and help your vision last a lifetime: 1  Find your local Vision Express store by entering your postcode. 2  Tell us which dates and times would be most convenient for you, at the store of your choice
1 The national average charge for an eye exam is $114 for those without insurance, according to the Vision Service Plan. 2  The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 3  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists