Lysosome. Within eukaryotic cells are specialized vesicles called lysosomes that contain digestive enzymes. These enzymes break down foreign material which may enter the cell. The name lysosome means releasing body and their enzymes cause lysis or disintegration of certain materials. They can be used to break down worn-out cellular components or bacteria engulfed by the cell
Lysosomes The main function of these microscopic organelles is to serve as digestion compartments for cellular materials that have exceeded their lifetime or are otherwise no longer useful. In this regard, the lysosomes recycle the cell's organic material in a process known as autophagy. Lysosomes break down cellular waste products, fats, carbohydrates, proteins, and other macromolecules into simple compounds, which are then transferred back into the cytoplasm as new cell-building materials. Lysosomes are found in all animal cells, but are most numerous in disease-fighting cells, such as white blood cells. This is because white blood cells must digest more material than most other types of cells in their quest to battle bacteria, viruses, and other foreign intruders.
Confidence votes 3.9K. The lysosomes destroy worn-out or damaged organelles, get rid of waste materials, and protect the cell from foreign invaders. the process of the membrane to prevent cells from getting damaged They release chemicals that break down large food particles into smaller food particles. 
Lysosomes are membrane-bound organelles that function as the stomachs of eukaryotic cells. They contain about fifty different enzymes that break down all types of biological molecules including proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, and carbohydrates. All of the digestive. enzymes found in the lysosome require an acidic environment to function properly and are called acid hydrolases. The low pH of the lysosome is maintained by membrane proteins that pump protons (H + ions) from the cytosol into the lysosome.
A lysosome is like the cleanup crew of the cell. One of its functions is the digestion of lipids, carbohydrates, and proteins into small molecules that can be used by the rest of the cell. Lysosomes are also involved in the breakdown of organellesthat have outlived their usefulness. 
A lysosome (derived from the Greek words lysis, meaning to loosen, and soma, body) is a membrane-bound cell organelle found in most animal cells (they are absent in red blood cells). Lysosomes are cellular organelles that contain acid hydrolase enzymes that break down waste materials and cellular debris. They can be described as the stomach of the cell. Lysosomes digest excess or worn-out organelles, food particles, and engulfed viruses or bacteria.
1 Lysosomes are the main sites of digestion, that is the break-down of structures, within cells. 2  There are, however, some circumstances (diseases/conditions) in which lysosomes begin to 'break-down' living cells-not just useless parts of cells or potentially harmful structures. 50nm to 1 μm § , lysosomes have a single outer membrane consisting of a phospholipid bilayer and contain acid hydrolases which are enzymes capable of breaking-down macromolecules. § i.e. 50x10-9m to 1x10-6m, which is the same as 0.00005 to 0.001 mm (millimetres).
A lysosome is a type of membrane-bound organelle that is present in animal cells. Ranging in diameter from approx. 50nm to 1 μm § , lysosomes have a single outer membrane consisting of a phospholipid bilayer and contain acid hydrolases which are enzymes capable of breaking-down macromolecules. § i.e. 50x10-9m to 1x10-6m, which is the same as 0.00005 to 0.001 mm (millimetres).