noun. The Equal Rights Amendment is defined as an amendment to the United States Constitution first proposed in 1972 to give equal rights to women and men. An example of the Equal Rights Amendment is a guarantee that sex discrimination is illegal. 
If ratified, the ERA would have become the Twenty-Seventh Amendment to the Constitution. The proposed addition would have read, Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.. The ERA was written by alice paul, of the National Woman's Party, and was first introduced in Congress in 1923. Equal Rights Amendment. The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was the most highly publicized and debated constitutional amendment before the United States for most of the 1970s and early 1980s. First submitted by Congress to the states for ratification on March 22, 1972, it failed to be ratified by its final deadline of June 30, 1982
noun. A proposed amendment to the US Constitution stating that civil rights may not be denied on the basis of one’s sex. Example sentences. 1  In 1923, and every year since, an Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution has been fought for-and against-in Congress, but remains three states short of ratification. 1 For example, the US's pitch for an Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution would have guaranteed women legal equality but fell flat in 1982 when not enough states ratified the proposal.
The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution designed to guarantee equal rights for women. The ERA was originally written by Alice Paul and Crystal Eastman. In 1923, it was introduced in the Congress for the first time. 
The Equal Rights Amendment was a proposed amendment to the US Constitution to guarantee equal rights for women and outlaw discrimination based on sex. It was first proposed in 1923 and passed both houses of Congress in 1972, but failed to achieve 3/4 ratification by the states. Lesson Summary. The Equal Rights Amendment is a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution that guarantees equal rights for women. It was first proposed by the suffragist, supporter of women's rights to vote, Alice Paul in 1923. However, it failed to pas
The Equal Rights Amendment affirms that both women and men hold equally all of the rights guaranteed by the U. S. Constitution. The most important effect of the ERA would be to clarify the status of sex discrimination for the courts, whose decisions still show confusion about how to deal with such claims. The Equal Rights Amendment was first proposed in 1923, but has never been made part of the U.S. Constitution. The ERA has been ratified by 35 of the necessary 38 states. When three more states vote yes, the ERA might become the 28th Amendment. The ERA was first introduced into Congress in 1923
Definition. An amendment proposed to the United States Constitution that would have granted women additional legal protections intended to counteract existing customs that favored men over women in legal matters, as well as inconsistent enforcement of existing laws meant to guarantee legal equality among men and women. 