I was going to buy malachite plugs, and the guy I was looking to buy them from told me it's not suitable for direct to skin wear, and when I asked him why he said I am not sure the exact scientific reason as to what in the stone makes it toxic, I've never researched into it enough, I just know that it... Now, after reading this I did some research of my own. And found that malachite green, a dye/pigmentation agent IS toxic for handling and things like that, and that it's only bad if you breathe in the dust from grinding dry malachite. Nothing about having it on your skin for long periods of time
If handling a raw specimen of Malachite please note that this stone is toxic and it is recommended that you not breathe in the dust and that you wash your hands after handling it; it is recommended that the tumbled or polished forms are best to use if your needing to handle the crystal regularly. 
Malachite green and formalin are toxic poisons. Malachite green acts as a respiratory poison, damaging the cell’s ability produce energy to drive vital metabolic processes. Formalin is a powerful disinfectant used to kill microorganisms or as a preservative for biological specimens. Formalin is more toxic in soft, acidic water and also removes oxygen from water so vigorous aeration most be applied. Each 5mg of formalin removes 1 mg of dissolved oxygen from the water. Malachite green is also more toxic at low pH as well as high temperatures. Malachite green has two forms depending on pH. The initial strong green coloured for prevails at low pH (acidic), while in alkaline water it is converted to a colourless carbinol form
Malachite was popular in ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome and was used for jewelry, amulets, as a powder for eye shadow and colouring pigment. Nowadays it is popular for jewelry and ornaments. Malachite dust is toxic and must not be inhaled during cutting and polishing. Azurmalachite is an extremely colourful massive material that combines the rich hues of malachite and azurite. 
Malachite green is classified in the dyestuff industry as a triarylmethane dye and also using in pigment industry. Formally, malachite green refers to the chloride salt [C 6 H 5 C(C 6 H 4 N(CH 3) 2) 2 ]Cl, although the term malachite green is used loosely and often just refers to the colored cation. Malachite green is an organic compound that is used as a dyestuff and has emerged as a controversial agent in aquaculture. Malachite green is traditionally used as a dye for materials such as silk, leather, and paper. Although called malachite green, the molecule is not prepared from the mineral malachite — the name just comes from the similarity of color
Malachite is a green, very common secondary copper mineral with a widely variable habit. Typically it is found as crystalline aggregates or crusts, often banded in appearence, like agates. It is also often found as botryoidal clusters of radiating crystals, and as mammillary aggregates as well. 
Used by itself or more commonly with marine fishes, in concert with formalin, Malachite Green is a powerful, though toxic medication with anti-protozoal and anti-microbial properties. To use with caution period, as Malachite Green is toxic... poisoning your livestock, the good guy bacteria populations in your system, as well as (hopefully) the pathogens you hope to be rid of. Common Names: Malachite Green may well be the most ubiquitous compound found in fish medicines...