Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Aniyah and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Aniyah and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Aniyah is fascinating, learn more about it.
Aniyah is an English variant transcription of the name Aniya (English, Polish, and Russian). Aniyah is also a variant transcription of Anna. Aniyah is also a variant transcription of the name Anya (Latvian, Lithuanian, Russian, English, and Indian). The name Aniya (English) is a variant transcription of Aniyah. Aniyah is a popular baby girl name, and it is also considered fairly trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s; before that, it was of irregular use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2009, 0.090% of baby girls were given the name Aniyah. Aniyah is largely used in the English language. Its origin is Polish and Hebrew. From Polish roots, its meaning is God was gracious, God has shown favor. The adoption of the forms Aniyah and Aniya could have been recently influenced from their similarity in sound to Amaya.
This same word in Surat al-Ghashiyah 88:5, when used as a name, means a woman who has reached her full potential, who is mature and intelligent. The caring person meaning is for another word, `aniyah, which starts with ain, not alif. In English both are spelled and pronounced the same, for this reason you can use the name Aniyah and consider it to mean mature and caring at the same time. 
The first thing you should know if you are considering Aniyah for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Aniyah is a girl name. The name Aniyah is of Hebrew origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Aniyah and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Aniyah is fascinating, learn more about it.
Aniyah Name Meaning. The meaning of Aniyah is “Ship”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Aniyah and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Aniyah is fascinating, learn more about it.
Meaning of Aniyah. Aniyah is an indirect Quranic name for girls that means “caring”, “affectionate”, “one who consoles others”, “one who helps others”. It is derived from the AIN-W-N root which is used in many places in the Quran. 
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Aniyah. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Aniyah, spread the love and share this with your friends. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Aniyah and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Aniyah is fascinating, learn more about it.
Popularity of the Name Aniyah. The name Aniyah first appeared on the U.S. popularity charts in 1999 along with Aniya that same year. In slightly over 10 years the name charged up the charts. Aniyah advanced over 700 positions in popularity so that by 2010, the name became a Top 200 favorite. Aniyah is a clear favorite among African-Americans, and similar to names like Zaniyah, Taniyah, Saniyah and Janiyah.