A common concern people have is the outcome of eating food that is moldy. This happens when you are not paying attention to what you are eating and suddenly realize that you just ate half a sandwich made with bread that has some mold on it. Then you go “Oh, crap, I just ate some mold” and then you google it to find out if you are going to die ….
What to Do if Mold is Eaten. The symptoms of mold ingestion are relatively minor and will go away on their own without any intervention. If you are concerned, taking absorbing activating coal or absorbing salts can help bind the bacterial toxins in mold. As food ages, mold takes over. The results can be unappetizing and unsightly, but is it dangerous if eaten?According to the United States Department of Agriculture, molds are microscopic fungi living on plant or animal matter.
RE: What happens if you accidentally eat mold? I was eating some fruit from the refrigerator, and I noticed it tasted weird, however, I noticed to late. I saw it was because it was moldy, but I had already eaten some of it. Especially if you do not eat a lot of it. But some fungi (mold). can be deadly. Do not eat any product that comes from a can and has mold growth on it.
The recent recall of Chobani Greek yogurt brought new attention to the issue of mold that develops in food, when it's harmful and what to do about it. On Sept. 5, the company that makes Chobani yogurt voluntarily recalled containers with the code 16-012 and best-by dates of Sept. 11 to Oct. 7. Mucor circinelloides, the type of mold found in the yogurt, is commonly associated with fruits, vegetables and dairy, the FDA's Ward says. It has been reported to cause spoilage like swelling and bloating in yogurt, she adds. This mold should not pose a health risk to most consumers,
Best Answer: Most mold is harmless. Especially if you do not eat a lot of it. But some fungi (mold). can be deadly. Do not eat any product that comes from a can and has mold growth on it. Some of these fungi produce very toxic byproducts that can be poisonou
As with all things you eat, the first thing that must be said is this: If you are allergic to it, then you probably shouldn’t have eaten it. But, we’ll ignore that because if you are actually allergic to “mold” (or some subset of molds) than you already know what to do or not do. Otherwise, the answer to the question is: There’s good news and bad news. First the good news. This happens when you are not paying attention to what you are eating and suddenly realize that you just ate half a sandwich made with bread that has some mold on it. Then you go “Oh, crap, I just ate some mold” and then you google it to find out if you are going to die ….
1 Hard salami and dry-cured country hams (Eat them. 2  Scrub mold off surface. 3  It is normal for these shelf-stable products to have surface mold.). 4  Firm fruits and vegetables (such as cabbage, bell peppers, carrots, etc.) as well as hard cheeses are OK to eat if you remove the mold. Eat – after cutting off the mold. 1  Hard salami and dry-cured country hams (Eat them. 2
1 Scrub mold off surface. 2  It is normal for these shelf-stable products to have surface mold.). 3  Firm fruits and vegetables (such as cabbage, bell peppers, carrots, etc.) as well as hard cheeses are OK to eat if you remove the mold. Eat – after cutting off the mold. 1  Hard salami and dry-cured country hams (Eat them. 2
So you can cut away the moldy part and eat the rest of the cheese. Cut off at least 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) around and below the moldy spot. Be sure to keep the knife out of the mold, so it doesn't contaminate other parts of the cheese. Of course, not all molds pose a risk. In fact, some types of mold are used to make cheeses, such as Brie and Camembert. These molds are safe to eat. If you're not sure what type of cheese you have or what to do if it grows mold, the safe course is to discard it. With. 
If you ate mold, just don’t worry. If you feel sick then maybe the mold is a problem, but most likely it isn’t. ___________________ Check out: The First Earth Day, an epoch journey into politics, explosions, folk music, and old boats floating on stinking rivers. This happens when you are not paying attention to what you are eating and suddenly realize that you just ate half a sandwich made with bread that has some mold on it. Then you go “Oh, crap, I just ate some mold” and then you google it to find out if you are going to die ….