Follow. I watch all kinds of cooking shows-some for the education, some for the food ideas, others for both, yet others so the Man and I can play Mystery Science Theater over a few beers or a bottle of wine... Watching the women in particular, I'm starting to feel a little self conscious and underdressed when I cook. Hair up, jewelry off, a tank or one of the Man's old beer tees, maybe the occasional frilly apron when I wanna feel precious, and pj or yoga pants. That's what I wear
Clothing is fiber and textile material worn on the body. The wearing of clothing is a feature of nearly all human societies. The amount and type of clothing worn is dependent on physical stature, gender, as well as social and geographic considerations. Physically, clothing serves many purposes: it can serve as protection from weather, and can enhance safety during hazardous activities such as hiking and cooking. 
1 Do wear long-sleeved cotton shirts and pants when cooking. 2  A clean, dry, properly worn apron or uniform can protect you from burns and hot oil splashes. 3  Do not cook without wearing protective clothing, even in hot temperatures or environments. 1 Do not cook without wearing protective clothing, even in hot temperatures or environments. 2  Use appropriate hand protection when hands are exposed to hazards such as cuts, lacerations, and thermal burns. 3  Use oven mitts or pot holders when handling hot items, and steel mesh or Kevlar gloves when cutting.
Slip-resistant shoes. 1  Do wear long-sleeved cotton shirts and pants when cooking. 2  A clean, dry, properly worn apron or uniform can protect you from burns and hot oil splashes. 3  Do not cook without wearing protective clothing, even in hot temperatures or environments. 1 Do not cook without wearing protective clothing, even in hot temperatures or environments. 2  Use appropriate hand protection when hands are exposed to hazards such as cuts, lacerations, and thermal burns. 3  Use oven mitts or pot holders when handling hot items, and steel mesh or Kevlar gloves when cutting.
1 A clean, dry, properly worn apron or uniform can protect you from burns and hot oil splashes. 2  Do not cook without wearing protective clothing, even in hot temperatures or environments. 3  Use appropriate hand protection when hands are exposed to hazards such as cuts, lacerations, and thermal burns. 1 Do not cook without wearing protective clothing, even in hot temperatures or environments. 2  Use appropriate hand protection when hands are exposed to hazards such as cuts, lacerations, and thermal burns. 3  Use oven mitts or pot holders when handling hot items, and steel mesh or Kevlar gloves when cutting.
Fab you forgot the I wear an apron option! I wear whatever I'm wearing that day with my apron over it. However if I plan on cooking all day for a dinner party or a big event I usually wear an older shirt and comfortable jeans. However, aside from that I think it's an excellent take on food porn.I wear velour comfy pants and a tank top most of the time, but not just for the comfy; usually I'm cooking for or with my boyfriend, and it feels sexy to be so dressed down and spending time together :-). aSLAMMINhottie 7 year
I usually get home from work/school, preheat the oven, and change into yoga pants and a tshirt before cooking. I'm just not comfy cooking in what I wore that day. Friends of mine cook in their pajamas, jeans & heels, and sweaty workout clothing. 
Follow cooking wear to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow cooking wear to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following cooking wear in your eBay Feed. 1 2 3 4 5. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Top Rated Plus. Learn More. 1  Sellers with highest buyer ratings