Rubidium is a chemical element with symbol Rb and atomic number 37. Rubidium is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group, with an atomic mass of 85.4678. Elemental rubidium is highly reactive, with properties similar to those of other alkali metals, such as very rapid oxidation in air. Rubidium has a number of oxides, including rubidium monoxide (Rb 2 O), Rb 6 O and Rb 9 O 2, which form if rubidium metal is exposed to air; rubidium in excess oxygen gives the superoxide RbO 2. Rubidium forms salts with halides, making rubidium fluoride, rubidium chloride, rubidium bromide, and rubidium iodide.
ru·bid·i·um. Symbol Rb A soft, silvery-white element that is an alkali metal. It ignites spontaneously in air and reacts violently with water. Rubidium is used in photoelectric cells and in making vacuum tubes. Atomic number 37. rubidium. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) a soft highly reactive radioactive element of the alkali metal group; the 16th most abundant element in the earth's crust (310 parts per million), occurring principally in pollucite, carnallite, and lepidolite. It is used in electronic valves, photocells, and special glass.
Rubidium is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metals group (Group 1). It is one of the most electropositive and alkaline elements. Rubidium can be liquid at ambient temperature, but only on a hot day given that its melting point is about 40°C. 
Rubidium oxide is the chemical compound with the formula Rb 2 O. Rubidium oxide is highly reactive towards water, and therefore it would not be expected to occur naturally. 
1 Rubidium is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group. 2  Its atomic mass is 85.4678. 3  Elemental rubidium is highly reactive, with properties similar to those of other elements in group 1 in the periodic table, such as very rapid oxidation in air. 4  Rubidium has only one stable isotope, Rb-85. Rubidium is a metallic element sited in the alkaline group on the periodic table of elements. It is used in a variety of industries, and it is also utilized in laboratories for a range of experiments. The element also has a number of radioactive isotopes which are used in research and dating of ancient fossils.
Properties. Rubidium can be liquid at room temperature. It is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali group and is the second most electropositive and alkaline element. It ignites spontaneously in air and reacts violently in water, setting fire to the liberated hydrogen. It colors a flame yellowish violet. 
Rubidium can be liquid at room temperature. It is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali group and is the second most electropositive and alkaline element. It ignites spontaneously in air and reacts violently in water, setting fire to the liberated hydrogen. 
189 pages on this wiki. Template:Infobox rubidium Rubidium (Template:PronEng, Template:Respell) is a chemical element with the symbol Rb and atomic number 37. Rb is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group. this is wrong
01 Jun, 2012 uses 0. Rubidium is a highly reactive, silvery-white metal. It is a chemical element that is represented by the atomic number 37 and the chemical symbol Rb. This metal was discovered in 1861 by German chemists. Naturally occurring rubidium is a relatively common element in the crust of the Earth. 