The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory. Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style.
Finding a low cost cremation provider in Hawaii With 76% of Americans living paycheck to paycheck today (CNN October 2013) and 35% now in debt recovery, it is understandable why more families are looking to lower cost funeral alternatives. The average price of a funeral in Hawaii these days can amount to in excess of $7,000, and this can be a complete financial burden to those arranging a funeral service if no pre-planning for funeral expenses were in place. This cost does not take into account cemetery plot costs.
Cremation costs at Kauai Memorial Gardens will vary depending upon exactly what type of cremation service you opt for. The least expensive cremation at Kauai Memorial Gardens is a direct cremation service. A direct cremation is a basic cremation service without a ceremony. The price for a traditional funeral at Kauai Memorial Gardens will depend upon the services and funeral merchandise you select. The cost of the casket is one item that can significantly affect your overall funeral costs. Similarly the cost for a burial plot in Lihue, will affect your final funeral expenses.
Or it can be as elaborate as a traditional funeral just the difference being the cremation of deceased as opposed to a burial. A full service cremation service is likely to cost in the region of $2,500 to $4,000. However, a simple. The average price of a funeral in Hawaii these days can amount to in excess of $7,000, and this can be a complete financial burden to those arranging a funeral service if no pre-planning for funeral expenses were in place. This cost does not take into account cemetery plot costs.
This means that a traditional funeral service involving a burial in Hawaii can amount to a cost in excess of $10,000. However, more affordable funeral options are available and cremation is fast becoming a preferred means of disposition to those working on a budget, or choosing not to opt for a traditional burial. The average price of a funeral in Hawaii these days can amount to in excess of $7,000, and this can be a complete financial burden to those arranging a funeral service if no pre-planning for funeral expenses were in place. This cost does not take into account cemetery plot costs.
Each state has laws affecting what happens to a body after death. For example, most states have unique rules about embalming, burial or cremation, scattering ashes, and how to get a death certificate. Here are some answers to common questions about post-death matters in Hawaii. In Hawaii, a body must usually be embalmed, cremated or buried within 30 hours after death. If the body is in the custody of the coroner, medical examiner, county, or county physician, the body must be embalmed, cremated, buried within 30 after release, or placed in refrigerated storage in a state approved hospital.
Here in Virginia, for instance, a direct cremation ranges from a low of $1145 to a high of $2995 through a funeral home, but through our Cremation Society the cost is $595 and includes all the transport (within the city) and paperwork required. Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style.
A full service cremation service is likely to cost in the region of $2,500 to $4,000. However, a simple cremation without a service, also known as a direct cremation, can be conducted for in the region of $1,000 - $1,500. The average price of a funeral in Hawaii these days can amount to in excess of $7,000, and this can be a complete financial burden to those arranging a funeral service if no pre-planning for funeral expenses were in place. This cost does not take into account cemetery plot costs.
Kohala Hospital $999. If you want to arrange a direct cremation, you can use an alternative container. Alternative containers encase the body and can be made of materials like cardboard of composition materials (with or without an outside covering). The containers we provide are a cardboard container.