1 4 years of college. 2  4 years of medical school. 3  3 years of general pediatric training in a hospitals. 4  1 &endash;3 years (usually) of special pediatric training (called a subspecialty). 5  There are currently 12 different subspecialties. 6  There are other special training programs for pediatricians, too. 1 4 years of medical school. 2  3 years of general pediatric training in a hospitals. 3  1 &endash;3 years (usually) of special pediatric training (called a subspecialty). 4
Training to become a pediatrician requires a four-year undergraduate degree, four years of medical school, and three or more years of hands-on residency training. After graduating from medical school, you'll complete three or more years of a residency, where you'll train hands-on in a hospital or clinic under the supervision of experienced pediatricians. You may also train for a pediatric specialty, such as surgery or orthopedics.
How many years of schooling to become a pediatrician? To become a pediatrician you need: 4 year college degree 4 year medical school degree 3-4 years of an accredited residency program For a combined total of 11-12 years … of training after the completion of high school. 8 people found this useful. Nicola. 4 year college degree. 4 year medical school degree. 3-4 years of an accredited residency program. For a combined total of 11-12 years of training after the completion of high school.
The first step in understanding how to become a pediatrician is accepting that this career choice will involve many years of schooling. The first level of schooling for a pediatrician, after graduation of high school, includes pursuing a four-year degree, also known as a bachelor s degree, at an accredited university. 
In order to become a pediatrician, you will need to complete a 4-year college degree prior to entering medical school. You will then spend four years working toward a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.) degree. 
Medical Degree. To be accepted into a medical school program, you must take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and submit transcripts and letters of recommendation to the college. Many schools also have an interview process. To become a pediatrician, you'll need training in general medicine throughout most of your undergraduate and graduate education.
Education General-As a Pediatrician, you will ALWAYS be learning! After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (which will get you a BS, BA, or other Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medical School (which will get you an MD or DO degree). After this, you are a general doctor. Most of the time, these new doctors go on to learn a specialty in medicine, such as pediatrics. This is the ultimate goal of a pediatrician's training. Bottom line: 4 years college + 4 years medical school + 3 years of residency = 11 years (after high school). Return to Top High School-this is where it really begins.
A specialty pediatrician must finish high school and then does: 1  4 years of college. 2  4 years of medical school. 3  3 years of general pediatric training in a hospitals. 4  1 &endash;3 years (usually) of special pediatric training (called a subspecialty). 1 4 years of medical school. 2  3 years of general pediatric training in a hospitals. 3  1 &endash;3 years (usually) of special pediatric training (called a subspecialty). 4  There are currently 12 different subspecialties.