Urine Formation. Urineis formed through a combination of four basic processes: 1) glomerular filtration, 2) tubular reabsorption, 3) tubular secretion, and 4) water conservation. Blood is under high pressure in the glomerulus; thus, plasma (except for plasma proteins) moves into the glomerular capsule. This fluid is called filtrate
Reabsorption takes place in the tubular parts of the nephron where water and solutes move across the tubular wall out of the nephron (by diffusion or active transport) and into the surrounding capillaries. c. Secretion moves substances from the capillaries into the nephron walls. 1. Urine is a fluid that rids the body of water and solutes that are in excess of the amounts needed to maintain the extracellular fluid. 2. Urine forms through a sequence of three processes:
Basically, the process of urine formation takes place in three (3) stages, as blood plasma flows through the nephrons. Nephrons are microscopic tube-like structures in the kidneys that filter the blood and cause wastes to be removed. 1 As the fluid moves through the renal tubule it is called tubular fluid. 2  It is different form glomerular filtrate because of substances which are removed and added by the tubule cells. 3  Finally, when the fluid moves into the. 4  it is called urine.
Function: Urine Formation and Excretion. Urine is composed of unwanted substances that have been filtered from the blood by nephrons, the functional units of the kidneys. The urine formed in the kidneys passes through the ureters and is temporarily stored in the bladder. Blood entering the nephron is filtered through a cluster of capillaries called the glomerulus. The filtrate then enters the renal tubule, along which a complex process of secretion and reabsorption occurs.
Best Answer: Urine is formed through three processes that occur in the kidney: Ultrafiltration, where almost all the blood components are filtered by the kidneys except for the blood cells and the plasma proteins, e.g. urea, water, sodium, glucose, potassium, ...etc. 
13 Reabsorption Reabsorption is the process where substances are absorbed, again. Reabsorption • The process of filtration allows some substances that were absorbed from the digestive tract or interstitial fluid into the blood, to leave the blood and to enter the nephron, ultimately to become a component of urine. Pathway of Urine • Urine, which consists mostly of water and solutes, is transported from the kidneys by the ureters to the urinary bladder, which temporarily stores the urine. • Urine is removed from the body when the bladder is emptied through the urethra .• The discharge of urine is called micturition.
Im really confused as to where in the nephron of the kidney each of the three steps of urine formation occur the steps include: 1. glomerular filtration 2. tubular reabsorption 3.tubular secretion does glomerular filtration occur in the renal corpuscle, then the tubular reabsorption occur in the proximal... Im really confused as to where in the nephron of the kidney each of the three steps of urine formation occur. the steps include: 1. glomerular filtration. 2. tubular reabsorption. 3.tubular secretion.
Urine Formation. Urine is formed through a combination of four basic processes: 1) glomerular filtration, 2) tubular reabsorption, 3) tubular secretion, and 4) water conservation. Blood is under high pressure in the glomerulus; thus, plasma (except for plasma proteins) moves into the glomerular capsule. Urine
The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. 