Alleles are forms of the same gene with small differences in their sequence of DNA bases. These small differences contribute to each person’s unique physical features. Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases. 
The nucleotide sequence of a gene's DNA specifies the amino acid sequence of a protein through the genetic code. Sets of three nucleotides, known as codons, each correspond to a specific amino acid. Additionally, a  start codon , and three  stop codons  indicate the beginning and end of the protein coding region. Second, that mRNA is translated to protein. RNA-coding genes must still go through the first step, but are not translated into protein. The process of producing a biologically functional molecule of either RNA or protein is called gene expression, and the resulting molecule is called a gene product.
A gene is a segment of DNA that encodes function. A chromosome consists of a long strand of DNA containing many genes. A human chromosome can have up to 500 million base pairs of DNA with thousands of genes. Second, that mRNA is translated to protein. RNA-coding genes must still go through the first step, but are not translated into protein. The process of producing a biologically functional molecule of either RNA or protein is called gene expression, and the resulting molecule is called a gene product.
In cells, a gene is a portion of DNA that contains both coding sequences that determine what the gene does, and non-coding sequences that determine when the gene is active … (expressed). When a gene is active, the coding and non-coding sequences are copied in a process called transcription, producing an RNA copy of the gene's information. This piece of RNA can then direct the synthesis of proteins via the genetic code. In other cases, the RNA is used directly, for example as part of the ribosome.
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. Similar to the way the order of letters in the alphabet can be used to form a word, the order of nitrogen bases in a DNA sequence forms genes, which in the language of the cell, tells cells how to make proteins. 
The function of DNA in a cell is to code the way proteins turn genes on or off. the function of DNA is to make the proteins   DNA is the foundation of life. It's a complex molecule made up of four types of bases, cross connected like a staircase, and twisted into a spiral. DNA carries the genetic information of a cell and consists of thousands of … genes. Each gene serves as a recipe on how to build a protein molecule. Proteins perform important tasks for the cell functions or serve as building blocks.
Gene-what is, definition and function. Gene is a segment of coding DNA (DNA that instructs the structure and function of cells throughout the body) composed of a specific sequence of nucleotides. The gene is the basic unit of inheritance that directs every facet of the body’s appearance and functions. Genes align along chromosomes in pairs. Each CHROMOSOME (AUTOSOME) contains thousands of genes, except the sex chromosomes which contain only a few hundred genes. Each gene has a specific location on the chromosome, called its locus, and encodes a specific function (either a protein or RNA transcription).
Their function is to hold all the information required to make and regulate the expression of all the different proteins in cells. The main function of the genes is the form the organism, which is like the parent organism. In bisexual animals, this means to combine the features from both the parents. So man give birth to man and lion gives birth to lion. Amoeba gives birth to amoeba. When a gene is active, the coding and non-coding sequences are copied in a process called transcription, producing an RNA copy of the gene's information. This piece of RNA can then direct the synthesis of proteins via the genetic code. In other cases, the RNA is used directly, for example as part of the ribosome.
p53, also known as TP53 or tumor protein (EC :2.7.1.37) is a gene that codes for a protein that regulates the cell cycle and hence functions as a tumor suppression. It is very important for cells in multicellular organisms to suppress cancer. 