Finding A Partner. The endocrine system is a complex communication network made up of specialized cells, glands and hormones. The glands release hormones into the blood or the fluid surrounding cells in response to stimuli from inside and outside the body. Once released, hormones travel throughout the body looking for target cells that contain matching receptors. The hormone binds with the receptor, something like how a key fits a lock to unlock a door. Hormones, like keys, need to have a compatible receptor, or lock, in order to work
The Hypothalamus. Physiological processes are under nervous system as well as endocrine control and a gland adjacent to the pituitary, called the hypothalamus hypothalamus, an important supervisory center in the brain, rich in ganglia, nerve fibers, and synaptic connections.
The endocrine system is linked to the nervous system by effects of the hypothalamus on the pituitary gland, as seen in the adjacent image. The pituitary gland is known as the ‘master gland’ because its secretions control the activity of other endocrine glands. The activity of the pituitary gland is however controlled by the hypothalamus which as well as being an endocrine gland, is also part of the nervous system.
Endocrinology is the study of chemical communication systems that provide the means to control a huge number of physiologic processes. Like other communication networks, endocrine systems contain transmitters, signals and receivers that are called, respectively, hormone producing cells, hormones and receptors. 
A target cell responds to a hormone because it bears receptors for the hormone. In other words, a particular cell is a target cell for a hormone if it contains functional receptors for that hormone, and cells which do not have such a receptor cannot be influenced directly by that hormone. 1 Antagonists are molecules that bind the receptor and block binding of the agonist, but fail to trigger intracellular signalling events. 2  Antagonists are like certain types of bureaucrats-they don't themselves perform useful work, but block the activities of those that do have the capacity to contribute.
The endocrine system acts by releasing hormones that in turn trigger actions in specific target cells. Receptors on target cell membranes bind only to one type of hormone. More than fifty human hormones have been identified; all act by binding to receptor molecules. Hormones | Back to Top. The endocrine system is a collection of glands that secrete chemical messages we call hormones. These signals are passed through the blood to arrive at a target organ, which has cells possessing the appropriate receptor.
In the endocrine system, receptors in the body register that the amount of hormone or compounds in the blood are not optimal and cause a release or inhibition of hormones to manage the situation. A good example of this concerns the hormone cortisol. The pituitary gland is known as the ‘master gland’ because its secretions control the activity of other endocrine glands. The activity of the pituitary gland is however controlled by the hypothalamus which as well as being an endocrine gland, is also part of the nervous system.
The regulation of body functions by the endocrine system depends on the existence of specific receptor cells in target organs that respond in specialized ways to the minute quantities of the hormonal messengers. Some endocrine hormones, such as thyroxine thyroxine, substance secreted by the thyroid gland. Physiological processes are under nervous system as well as endocrine control and a gland adjacent to the pituitary, called the hypothalamus hypothalamus, an important supervisory center in the brain, rich in ganglia, nerve fibers, and synaptic connections.