The Selwyn District-the largest district within Canterbury-lies South and West of Christchurch. With its grand scenery, walking, cycling, and garden trails; and six sensational ski fields, there's always something interesting happening (and always something delicious to eat). Sensational Selwyn stretches across the Great Canterbury Plains and is bounded by the mighty Rakaia and Waimakariri Rivers, with Arthur's Pass National Park snuggled in the high Southern Alps to the west, and the Pacific Ocean to the east.
Hoskyns Road-Partial closure due to Kiwirail works this week. Due to KiwiRail work taking place today and tomorrow, Hoskyns Road will be CLOSED between Jones Road and SH1 Main South Road, Rolleston. Traffic will be detoured via Jones Road, Weedons Ross Road onto SH1. Stop/Go Traffic control will be in place at the intersection of Weedons Ross Road and SH1 Main South Road to assist with right hand turns onto SH1 Main South Road. Closure times are: ...
Selwyn is a village in the Selwyn District of Canterbury, New Zealand. It was laid out in the 1860s for a population of 2,000 people, but it currently has very few houses. Its successor bridge now carries State Highway 1 traffic, which crosses the railway line in Selwyn; initially, two right angle bends were provided, later to be replaced by a sweeping S-bend. Selwyn is 37 kilometres (23 mi) south-west of Christchurch, and 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) north-east of Dunsandel.
Christchurch to Arthur's Pass-Road trip. The Selwyn District begins just 10 minutes from Christchurch International Airport. Explore the Great Alpine Highway (SH73) bounded by the Waimakariri and Rakaia rivers. So many wonderful things to see and do on your journey to Arthur's Pass National Park. Sensational Selwyn stretches across the Great Canterbury Plains and is bounded by the mighty Rakaia and Waimakariri Rivers, with Arthur's Pass National Park snuggled in the high Southern Alps to the west, and the Pacific Ocean to the east.
Captain Joseph Thomas, the chief surveyor of the Canterbury Association, named the Selwyn River after Bishop Selwyn, New Zealand's first Anglican Bishop. This township, the district and an electorate later used the same name. Its successor bridge now carries State Highway 1 traffic, which crosses the railway line in Selwyn; initially, two right angle bends were provided, later to be replaced by a sweeping S-bend. Selwyn is 37 kilometres (23 mi) south-west of Christchurch, and 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) north-east of Dunsandel.
Selwyn District Council added 2 new photos. October 18 at 2:11pm ·. Prebbleton School was one of 14 Selwyn Schools who took part in. the Shakeout national earthquake drill on Thursday morning. 21 local preschools also took part and over 7,600 Selwyn residents registered to be part of Shakeout. Traffic will be detoured via Jones Road, Weedons Ross Road onto SH1. Stop/Go Traffic control will be in place at the intersection of Weedons Ross Road and SH1 Main South Road to assist with right hand turns onto SH1 Main South Road. Closure times are: ...
Selwyn District Council believes support of employees with family responsibilities is aligned with our vision of creating a strong, motivated workforce. Helping employees to balance work and family responsibilities makes good business sense in an organisation which recognises the value of corporate citizenship. 
Page Content Campus Environment Selwyn Elementary is composed of a lower school made up of grades K-3 and an upper school made up of grades 3, 4 and 5. Selwyn is fortunate to be a part of the Southpark Campus: 120 acres of wooded, hilly terrain crossed by two creeks and nature trails. Campus Environment.
Consultation on irrigation scheme loan proposal opens. 14 Oct 2015 3:55pm Consultation is now open on whether Selwyn District Council should provide an $8 million loan to Central Plains Water Limited (CPWL), to help fund design work for the next stage of the irrigation scheme. 