The cerebral cortex is gray matter, consisting mainly of cell bodies (with astrocytes being the most abundant cell type in the cortex as well as the human brain as a whole) and capillaries. It contrasts with the underlying white matter, consisting mainly of the white myelinated sheaths of neuronal axons. The cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory, attention, perception, awareness, thought, language, and consciousness. The human cerebral cortex is 2 to 4 millimetres (0.079 to 0.157 in) thick. In large mammals, the cerebral cortex is folded, giving a much greater surface area in the confined volume of the skull
cerebral cortex. noun. : the convoluted surface layer of gray matter of the cerebrum that functions chiefly in coordination of sensory and motor information—called also pallium; see neocortex. Definition of CEREBRAL CORTEX. : the convoluted surface layer of gray matter of the cerebrum that functions chiefly in coordination of sensory and motor information — compare neocortex. ADVERTISEMENT.
The cerebral cortex is the cerebrum 's (brain) outer layer of neural tissue in humans and other mammals. It is divided into two cortices, along the sagittal plane: the left and right cerebral hemispheres divided by the medial longitudinal fissure. The cerebral cortex plays a key role in memory, attention, perception, awareness, thought, language, and consciousness. The human cerebral cortex is 2 to 4 millimetres (0.079 to 0.157 in) thick. In large mammals, the cerebral cortex is folded, giving a much greater surface area in the confined volume of the skull
Coating the surface of the cerebrum and the cerebellum is a vital layer of tissue the thickness of a stack of two or three dimes. It is called the cortex, from the Latin word for bark. Most of the actual information processing in the brain takes place in the cerebral cortex. 
The cerebral cortex is a most important part of the brain. In humans, it is by far the largest part of the brain. Though this cannot be seen directly, different parts of the cortex have different functions (see diagram). It is a sheet of neural tissue that is outermost to the cerebrum of the mammalian brain. It has up to six layers of nerve cells. The human cerebral cortex is 2–4 mm (0.08–0.16 inches) thick.
Cerebral Cortex: The cerebral cortex covers the outer portion (1.5mm to 5mm) of the cerebrum. It is the layer of the brain often referred to as gray matter. The cortex (thin layer of tissue) is gray because nerves in this area lack the insulation that makes most other parts of the brain appear to be white. The cortex also covers the cerebellum. The cerebrum is the most highly developed part of the human brain and is responsible for thinking, perceiving, producing and understanding language. Most information processing occurs in the cerebral cortex.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance.
Brain Tour. 3. The cortex: Thinking wrinkles. Your brain's wrinkled surface is a specialized outer layer of the cerebrum called the cortex. Scientists have mapped the cortex by identifying areas strongly linked to certain functions. Specific regions of the cortex:
Cerebral Cortex The cerebral cortex is the outer surface of the cerebral hemispheres. It is the highest level of the brain and has about 20 billion neurons in the human brain which carry out the highest levels of mental functioning. The cerebral cortex is a layer of grey matter up to about 1/2 cm thick.