In American English, a journeyman or journeywoman is an athlete who is technically competent but unable to excel. The term is used elsewhere (such as in British and Australian contexts) to refer to a professional sportsman who plays for a large number of different clubs during his career. 
In Australia this type of carpenter is called a roof carpenter and the term roofer refers to someone who installs the roof cladding (tiles, tin, etc.). In the United States, the most common roofing material is asphalt shingles. German roofer installing a reed roof (he is wearing the traditional vest and trousers of a crafts person). Roofers laying a tiled roof in Denver, Colorado. A roofer or roof mechanic is a construction worker who specializes in roof construction.
Tweet. golf: a score that is one more than the official standard score for a particular hole: a score of one stroke over par on a hole.. \ˈbō-gē\ a chiefly British: an average golfer's score used as a standard for a particular hole or course b: one stroke over par on a hole in golf. 4. \ˈbō-gē\ : a numerical standard of performance set up as a mark to be aimed at especially in competition.
An apprentice might be a recent high school graduate or have worked at another occupation for several years. The important distinction is that the apprentice does not have sufficient training in his chosen field to work independently. A journeyman, on the other hand, has already served his apprenticeship. Depending on the trade, an apprenticeship lasts two to six years. During this time, apprentices acquire the knowledge and hands-on experience to complete job-related tasks.
3. \ˈbō-gē\ a chiefly British: an average golfer's score used as a standard for a particular hole or course b: one stroke over par on a hole in golf. 4. \ˈbō-gē\ : a numerical standard of performance set up as a mark to be aimed at especially in competition.5.
2. \ˈbō-gē also ˈbu̇- or ˈbue-\ : ˈbü a source of, fear, perplexity or. harassment. \3-ˈbō\ gē a Chiefly: british an average'golfer s score used as a standard for a particular hole or course: b one stroke over par on a hole in. golf. \ˈbō-gē\ a chiefly British: an average golfer's score used as a standard for a particular hole or course b: one stroke over par on a hole in golf. 4. \ˈbō-gē\ : a numerical standard of performance set up as a mark to be aimed at especially in competition.
Journeyman Lineman Job Description. Journeymen linemen build and maintain electrical power systems. They do all the work from the point of generation (power plants) all the way to the customer's meter. The lines may be on overhead structures (up to 300') or in underground vaults or trenches. They may be in rural and metropolitan areas.
Electricians are licensed by states, and regulations and designations vary, but all states follow the National Electrical Code, and all recognize three basic categories: apprentice, journeyman and master. There is no national license; some municipalities require city licenses. An apprentice is a beginner or trainee who works under direct supervision of a master electrician. A journeyman is trained and experienced and can work on his own under the general guidance of a master. A master originates projects, gets permits for construction and installations and oversees the work of journeymen and apprentices. 
A master has more experience and training, typically from three to six years working as a journeyman. A master also has to be educated in the fundamentals of electricity, building codes, project management and safety regulations.lectricians are licensed by states, and regulations and designations vary, but all states follow the National Electrical Code, and all recognize three basic categories: apprentice, journeyman and master.