The Innkeepers is a 2011 horror film written, directed and edited by Ti West, starring Sara Paxton, Pat Healy and Kelly McGillis. She tries to open the door that leads to the garage, forgetting she had locked it. Confronted by Madeline's apparition, Claire dies of an asthma attack. The next morning, Luke tells police he heard Claire's screams coming from the cellar but could not open the door to save her. Luke and Leanne leave with the police.
Sara Paxton, Pat Healy and Kelly McGillis signed on in May 2010. The film is produced by Derek Curl, Larry Fessenden, Ti West and Peter Phok. for Dark Sky Films in partnership with Glass Eye Pix. It was shot in Torrington, Connecticut. West shot several scenes in the actual Torrington, Connecticut Yankee Pedlar Inn. The film was shot on 35 mm film. She tries to open the door that leads to the garage, forgetting she had locked it. Confronted by Madeline's apparition, Claire dies of an asthma attack. The next morning, Luke tells police he heard Claire's screams coming from the cellar but could not open the door to save her. Luke and Leanne leave with the police.
In the United States, the era of the traveling peddler probably peaked in the decades just before the American Civil War. The large advances in industrial mass production and freight transportation as a result of the war laid the groundwork for the beginnings of modern retail and distribution networks. Tinware was manufactured in Berlin, Connecticut, as early as 1770, and tin, steel and iron goods were peddled from Connecticut through the North American colonies-the Connecticut clock maker and clock peddler was the 18th century embodiment of Yankee ingenuity.
In the mid-2000’s the Lazer name was re-used for a 2007-later moped, made in China by Bashan, imported by SSR Motorsports in Norwalk CA, with a 4-stroke Chinese engine. SSR sells many off-road bikes, quads, and on-road scooters and mopeds. They have dealers across the US that sell their products, and parts. Wheel King is a Taiwan moped with 2.25 x 16″ tires and a Sachs 505 engine. The Wheel King, Road Runner, and Cuyler brands of this same bike are made by Wheel King Corp. Taiwan R.O.C. Wheel Kings were imported and distributed by T. & J. Moped, Inc, 3518 Firestone Blvd, South Gate, California 90280 USA.
Yankee. n. 1. (Peoples) a native or inhabitant of the US; American. 2. (Peoples) a native or inhabitant of New England. 3. (Historical Terms) a native or inhabitant of the Northern US, esp a Northern soldier in the Civil War. 4. (Telecommunications) communications a code word for the letter y. 5. 1. a native or inhabitant of the United States. 2. a native or inhabitant of New England. 3. a native or inhabitant of a Northern state. 4. a Federal soldier in the Civil War. 5. of, pertaining to, or characteristic of a Yankee or Yankees: Yankee ingenuity.
Beta made in Italy by Beta Beta 1-speed engine. Beta was formed in the early 1900’s in Florence Italy, by Guiseppe Bianchi, a famous bicycle racer and entrepreneur. Originally it was called “Societe Guiseppe Bianchi”, and made bicycles. These “sport mopeds” at left were for England in 1973 to 1977, where there was no limit on power or speed or transmission gears, only 50cc with pedals. Many of those “sport mopeds” went 55 or 60mph. Wow! The Vespa Grande, a US model, is 80% the same as a Gilera cbA, a Euro model, both made by Piaggio.
The origin of the word, known in English since 1225, is unknown, but it might come from French pied, Latin pes, pedis foot, referring to a petty trader travelling on foot. Peddlers usually travelled on foot, carrying their wares, or by means of a person-or animal-drawn cart or wagon (making the peddler a hawker). Tinware was manufactured in Berlin, Connecticut, as early as 1770, and tin, steel and iron goods were peddled from Connecticut through the North American colonies-the Connecticut clock maker and clock peddler was the 18th century embodiment of Yankee ingenuity.
[ Origin unknown .]. Word History: The first known attestation of the word Yankee is found in a letter from 1758 by General James Wolfe—he used it as a term of contempt for the American colonial troops in his command. 1. a native or inhabitant of the United States. 2. a native or inhabitant of New England. 3. a native or inhabitant of a Northern state. 4. a Federal soldier in the Civil War. 5. of, pertaining to, or characteristic of a Yankee or Yankees: Yankee ingenuity.
Man y Tomos parts are in the Parts By Type sections. Below is a summary list of Tomos parts with links to the Parts by Type sections. The parts are described by sizes, specs, and type rather than part numbers and brand names. This system allows for when the same part is used on several different brands. Wheel King is a Taiwan moped with 2.25 x 16″ tires and a Sachs 505 engine. The Wheel King, Road Runner, and Cuyler brands of this same bike are made by Wheel King Corp. Taiwan R.O.C. Wheel Kings were imported and distributed by T. & J. Moped, Inc, 3518 Firestone Blvd, South Gate, California 90280 USA.
Minarelli V1 engine. 1978 FMB Yankee Peddler. Minarelli V1 engine. FMB Telaimotor Fabbrica Motocicli Bologna Telaimotor (Bologna Motorcycle Factory that makes motor Frames) was one of the myriad companies in and around Bologna, Italy through the ’50s to the ’80s that specialised in building their own chassis. These “sport mopeds” at left were for England in 1973 to 1977, where there was no limit on power or speed or transmission gears, only 50cc with pedals. Many of those “sport mopeds” went 55 or 60mph. Wow! The Vespa Grande, a US model, is 80% the same as a Gilera cbA, a Euro model, both made by Piaggio.