Guideline 4: Documenting the Provision of Services. You should maintain written records related to all substantive contact with patients and the records should be kept in a secure setting. If you choose to keep electronic records, you should make a backup copy that is kept in a secure setting. Law, rules and regulations, not guidelines, specify the requirements for practice and violating them constitutes professional misconduct.
You should plan to retain records for a longer period, when necessary, such as a patient with a long-term condition whose treatment will continue beyond the statutory requirement. You must keep records for 6 years or until the patient turns 22 years of age, which ever is longer. Law, rules and regulations, not guidelines, specify the requirements for practice and violating them constitutes professional misconduct.
For example, doctors in Massachusetts must keep medical records for at least 7 years from the date of the last patient encounter. If the patient is a minor, the doctor must keep the medical record for 7 years or until the patient reaches the age of 9, whichever is longer. Massachusetts hospitals must keep medical records at least 30 years after the discharge or final treatment of the patient. Can it ever take longer? Generally, yes. If your medical records are kept off site, your hospital can take up to 60 days to respond to your request. If your hospital cannot respond in 30 days (or 60 days if your records are kept off site), they can get one 30-day extension.
Mental health records. Records of people who have been treated for a mental disorder should be retrained for 20 years after the date of last contact between the patient and any healthcare professional employed by the mental health provider, or eight years after the death of the patient if sooner. This guidance covers many types of health record and specifies the length of time they should be kept for (the minimum retention period). The guidance applies regardless of how the records are held, for example: 1  paper records.
...Records relating to persons receiving treatment for a mental disorder within the meaning of the Mental Health Act 1983 - 20 years after the date of last contact between the patient and any health care provider, or 8 years after the patient's death if sooner... 
Missouri law requires that physicians maintain adequate records on each patient for at least seven years from the date of last service performed. Any corrections, modifications or deletions made in the patient record must be clearly outlined in the patient record. 
Medical records whether original, reproductions or microfilm, shall be kept on file for a minimum of 7 years following the discharge of a patient. (b) If the patient is a minor, records shall be kept on file until his majority, and then, for 7 years or as long as the records of adult patients are maintained. 
2216. Medical Records Service. 2216.3 A medical record shall be kept on each inpatient. This record shall be filed in a safe place for not less than ten (10) years following the date of discharge of the patient, either in the form of the original record or in the form of a microfilm or photostatic copy. The record shall include documentation of an assessment, evaluation, or diagnosis of a client. (1) Records held by a [social worker] shall be kept for five years for adult clients and two years beyond the age of 18 for minor clients ….
The Department of Health (DH) has produced guidance on managing health records for NHS organisations in England. This guidance covers many types of health record and specifies the length of time they should be kept for (the minimum retention period). The guidance applies regardless of how the records are held, for example: 1  paper records.