The did not Germany did. Germany suffered the most AFTER the war. France suffered the most DURING the fighting because all of the battles on the Western Front were in France a … side from a small minority in Belgium. But, to be fair. Russia suffered as much as France for the same reason, only it was on Eastern Front.
Although the Civil War itself was caused by a number of different factors, the divergent paths taken in the economic development of North and South contributed to the animosity between the regions, the development of the Confederacy and, ultimately, the victory of the Union.
The Civil War in the New York Times The New York Times Complete Civil War, 1861-1865 Edited by Harold Holzer and Craig L. Symonds Black Dog & Leventhal Publishing, 2010, $40 It is no stretch to say the New York Times was the nation’s most powerful newspaper during the Civil War.
The did not Germany did. Germany suffered the most AFTER the war. France suffered the most DURING the fighting because all of the battles on the Western Front were in France a … side from a small minority in Belgium. But, to be fair. Russia suffered as much as France for the same reason, only it was on Eastern Front.
One major issue that caused the Confederate economy to suffer so  badly during the Civil War in the United States was the fact that  supply routes were cut off by Union troo … ps. The burning of several  cities in the South only added to the strife in the South.
Historically, textbooks have taught that incompatibility between northern and southern economies caused the Civil War. The industrial revolution in the North, during the first few decades of the 19th century, brought about a machine age economy that relied on wage laborers, not slaves.
The affects of the Civil War on the south were devastating. As the Northern armies drove south crops were burned, mills were destroyed, and houses were burned. Without the excess labor that the slaves provided, the south was unable to rebuild in a timely manner.