1 The faster the better as long as the reading is accurate. 2  A instant thermometer that can read boiling water accurately in 10 to 20 seconds is good, 20 to 30 seconds is fair and over 30 seconds poor. 3  Accuracy – A fast response time without accuracy is not what you are looking for. A better answer is to probe it with an instant thermometer. In seconds you will know exactly what the internal temperature is and if it’s reached the desired target. Remember, you can’t cook a steak to medium-rare if you don’t know what medium-rare is. Be sure to read my blog post, How Do You Know When The Meat Is Done.
This thermometer can do double-duty as an oven thermometer and instant-read, taking only six seconds to instantly read interior temperatures. As with most digital thermometers, the parallel design of the display can make it awkward to read. Handy doneness chart is located on the back of the tool. Buy from Amazon ». 
Fast and accurate with a huge range, the Thermapen instant-read digital thermometer has been a mainstay of the King Arthur test kitchen for everything from bread to frying, candy, and more. \r\n. 1  Thermapen is fully sealed to be absolutely splashproof; no more worrying about bubbling custard or sugar syrup. 
Note that an instant-read thermometer is different from a meat thermometer. An instant-read thermometer is used for taking a quick temperature reading of an item, but you don't leave it in the food while it cooks. A meat thermometer is inserted into a piece of meat before roasting, and is left in the roast during cooking. [Also see: How to Roast Meats ].
Definition: An instant-read or digital meat thermometer is used to determine the internal temperature of meat while roasting. This is an especially important kitchen tool, because it is the only reliable means for determining how cooked — rare, medium, well-done — meat is. In actuality, no meat thermometer is instant-read. Most instant-read thermometers can accurately determine internal temperature in 30 seconds, although there are several available that can read in as little as 5 or 10 seconds.
Our first pick for the best instant-read thermometer, the CDN DTQ450X or ProAccurate Quick-Read Thermometer, remains an accurate thermometer with a wide range, the thinnest probe at 1.5 mm, a calibration option, and a number of handy holding and temperature alert functions for a relatively low price of $18. It’s the fastest, most versatile, and convenient instant-read thermometer you can get for less than $95. December 18, 2014: After 12 additional hours of research and testing, our new favorite thermometer is the ThermoWorks ThermoPop.
So named because it gives a temperature reading very quickly, an instant-read thermometer is an essential food safety and sanitation tool. An instant-read thermometer consists of a stainless steel stem that serves as a temperature probe, and either a dial or a digital readout. An instant-read thermometer is used for taking a quick temperature reading of an item, but you don't leave it in the food while it cooks. A meat thermometer is inserted into a piece of meat before roasting, and is left in the roast during cooking. [Also see: How to Roast Meats ].
An instant read thermometer is a great tool to check the progress of your meat. Learn what an instant-read thermometer is, and how to properly use one, for your next dish. How to Use an Instant-Read Meat Thermometer. An instant-read thermometer cannot be used in the oven. Upon removal from the oven it is used immediately by inserting it into the meat at any stage wished during cooking.
1 A instant thermometer that can read boiling water accurately in 10 to 20 seconds is good, 20 to 30 seconds is fair and over 30 seconds poor. 2  Accuracy – A fast response time without accuracy is not what you are looking for. 3  A good instant thermometer needs to measure accurately. A better answer is to probe it with an instant thermometer. In seconds you will know exactly what the internal temperature is and if it’s reached the desired target. Remember, you can’t cook a steak to medium-rare if you don’t know what medium-rare is. Be sure to read my blog post, How Do You Know When The Meat Is Done.