Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) is a commonly used method for estimating body composition, and in particular body fat. Since the advent of the first commercially available devices in the mid-1980s the method has become popular owing to its ease of use, portability of the equipment and its relatively low cost compared to some of the other methods of body composition analysis.
It is familiar in the consumer market as a simple instrument for estimating body fat. BIA actually determines the electrical impedance, or opposition to the flow of an electric current through body tissues which can then be used to calculate an estimate of total body water (TBW). Since the advent of the first commercially available devices in the mid-1980s the method has become popular owing to its ease of use, portability of the equipment and its relatively low cost compared to some of the other methods of body composition analysis.
By using the impedance measurements along with a person's height and weight, and body type (gender, age, fitness level), it is possible to calculate the percentage of body fat, fat-free mass, hydration level, and other body composition values. Bioelectrical Impedance Body impedance is measured when a small, safe electrical signal is passed through the body, carried by water and fluids. Impedance is greatest in fat tissue, which contains only 10-20% water, while fat-free mass, which contains 70-75% water, allows the signal to pass much more easily.
As a part of our FirstLine therapy initial and follow-up testing, a bioimpedance analysis of your body is taken. Bioimpedance analysis (BIA) is a valuable tool for measuring your body composition – the measurement of body fat in relation to lean body mass. It is an important part of any comprehensive health and nutrition assessment. A normal balance of body fat to lean body mass is associated with good health and longevity. Excess fat in relation to lean body mass, a condition known as altered body composition, can greatly increase your risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and more.
To read an indepth analysis of Body Impedance Analysis, click the red model to the left. Simply explained, BIA measures the impedance or resistance to the signal as it travels through the water that is found in muscle and fat. The more muscle a person has, the more water their body can hold. The greater the amount of water in a person's body, the easier it is for the current to pass through i
Body composition and fluid status is not just about body weight. Body composition analysis is an important means of assessing ones’ nutritional status and well-being. Whole body electrical impedance is a simple, accurate and reliable measurement of body composition. By measuring the ability of one’s body to conduct electricity, the various body compartments and composition can be calculated
As a physician, you know that the Body Mass Index (BMI) by itself is not sufficient to analyze a patient's health status and body composition thoroughly. Fat, muscle, water and other important indicators of underlying medical conditions are not considered in the BMI. Bioelectric Impedance Vector Analysis (BIVA) is a graphic display that was developed by Professor A. Piccoli for a better interpretation of body impedance. It presents coordinate systems with tolerance ellipses for the graphic display of body impedance and fat-mass indices.
Weight is calculated automatically along with body fat content in less than a minute. Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis, or BIA, is considered one of the most exact and accessible methods of screening body fat. Simply explained, BIA measures the impedance or resistance to the signal as it travels through the water that is found in muscle and fat. The more muscle a person has, the more water their body can hold.
Bio-electrical Impedance Analysis or Bioimpedance Analysis (BIA) is a method of assessing your body composition, the measurement of body fat in relation to lean body mass. It is an integral part of a health and nutrition assessment. Research has shown that body composition is directly related to health. 