When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one may be dominant and the other recessive. The dominant allele is expressed and the recessive allele is masked. This is an example of complete dominance. In heterozygous relationships where neither allele is dominant but both are completely expressed, the alleles are considered to be co-dominant. Co-dominance is exemplified in AB blood type inheritance. 
Dominant allele: an allele that has the same effect on the phenotype whether it is present in the homozygous or heterozygous state. Recessive allele: an allele that only has an effect on the phenotype when present in the homozygous state. dominant allele. In a heterozygote, the allele that is fully express ed in the phenotype. dormancy ... Dominant allele: An allele that masks an alternative allele when both are present (in heterozygous form) in an organ ism (see recessive). Most common autosomal dominant diseases are due to mutation s in transcription factor genes (Jimenez-Sanchez, 2001)
In genetics, referring to that allele of a gene that is not express ed in the phenotype when the dominant allele is present. Also refers to the phenotype of an individual (homozygote) carrying two recessive alleles. (Figure 8-1) ... Codominant alleles: pairs of alleles that both affect the phenotype when present in a heterozygote. Locus: the particular position on homologous chromosomes of a gene. ~ Refers to an allele of a gene that is express ed when the dominant allele is not present. An allele express ed only in homozygous form, when the dominant allele is absent. ~. A genetic trait that is not express ed in a heterozygous or partially heterozygous cell
Biology Glossary search by EverythingBio.com. An allele that expresses its phenotypic effect even when heterozygous with a recessive allele; thus if A is dominant over a, then AA and Aa have the same phenotype. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z.
(genetics) Of, or pertaining to, a gene (or allele) whose phenotypic expression is masked by a dominant gene (or allele). noun. (1) A recessive allele or trait. (2) An organism whose recessive trait is discernible or expressed. Supplement. In genetics, a recessive gene or allele is one in which the effect is not tangible, or is masked by the effects of the dominant gene. The recessive trait may be expressed when the recessive genes are in homozygous condition or when the dominant gene is not present.
Another way to define a recessive trait is one that is never expressed by the heterozygous genotype. For example, the heterozygous genotype for earlobe type (Ee) produces detached earlobes because the dominant allele (E) hides the effects of the recessive allele (e). Recessive traits are those that are expressed or seen only when a homozygous recessive genotype is present. Homozygous recessive just means having two of the same recessive alleles. Remember, recessive alleles are masked by dominant alleles.
Definition. (genetics). (1) (Of, or pertaining to) An allele or a gene that is expressed in an organism ’s phenotype, masking the effect of the recessive allele or gene when present. (2) (Of, or pertaining to) An organism that expresses the dominant gene (or allele). (ecology) (Of, or pertaining to) An organism or group of organisms having the most considerable influence or control in its ecological community among other organism
Dominant allele is the allele that determines phenotypical features that manifest in homozygous or heterozygous genotype s. In Genetics the dominant allele is represented in uppercase, e.g., 'A', and its recessive allele is written in lowercase, 'a'. Recessive allele: an allele that only has an effect on the phenotype when present in the homozygous state. dominant allele. In a heterozygote, the allele that is fully express ed in the phenotype.
Genotype: the alleles of an organism. Phenotype: the characteristics of an organism. Dominant allele: an allele that has the same effect on the phenotype whether it is present in the homozygous or heterozygous state. 