Inferior Vena Cava Filter (PDF). The inferior vena cava (IVC) is a large vein in the middle of the abdomen. The IVC returns blood from your lower body to your heart. IVC filters are “baskets” that are made of many wires (see picture). This means you will not need to stay overnight in the hospital. An IVC filter traps blood clots that break loose from veins in your leg or pelvis. It prevents a large blood clot from reaching your lungs. A blood clot in the lung (a pulmonary embolism) can be life-threatening.
Inferior vena cava (IVC) filter placement is most commonly indicated for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) when anticoagulation therapy is contraindicated. The first image below demonstrates an IVC of normal size without a thrombus. The second image below shows on type of IVC filter in place. 
The filter is designed to capture an embolism, a blood clot that has broken loose from one of the deep veins in the legs on its way to the heart and lungs. Without the IVC filter in place, there would be the potential for the embolism to cause a blockage of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. Blockage of one or both arteries is referred to as a pulmonary embolism (PE) and can cause difficulty breathing, chest pain, and death. The IVC filter works by permitting blood flow to continue around the trapped clot.
What is an IVC Filter? IVC stands for Inferior vena cava which is a major blood vessel that returns blood from the lower body to the heart. An IVC filter is a small piece of metal, made of nitinol or stainless steel that can be placed into the IVC to prevent blood clots in the legs from traveling to the lungs.
Image-guided, minimally invasive procedures such as inferior vena cava filter placement and removal are most often performed by a specially trained interventional radiologist in an interventional radiology suite or occasionally in the operating room. This procedure is often done on an outpatient basis. Inferior vena cava (IVC) filters are placed in patients who have a history of or are at risk of developing blood clots in the legs, including patients: 1  diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 2  with pulmonary embolus. 3  who are trauma victim
In an inferior vena cava filter placement procedure, interventional radiologists use image guidance to place a filter in the inferior vena cava (IVC), the large vein in the abdomen that returns blood from the lower body to the heart. Inferior vena cava (IVC) filters are placed in patients who have a history of or are at risk of developing blood clots in the legs, including patients: 1  diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 2  with pulmonary embolus. 3  who are trauma victims
References. View image. Inferior vena cava (IVC) filter placement is a procedure used to put a small filter in the large abdominal vein that returns blood to the heart from the lower part of your body. This vein is called the inferior vena cava. The filter can trap blood clots and keep them from reaching your lungs. Your healthcare provider will use a soft thin tube called a catheter to put the filter into your vein. IVC filter placement may be done to prevent pulmonary embolism.
Overview. Thromboembolic disease continues to be a cause of morbidity and mortality. Placing a filter in the inferior vena cava (IVC) is an important way to prevent significant pulmonary embolism (PE) arising from a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 
The inferior vena cava is the largest vein in the body. It carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower extremities to the right atrium of the heart and then to the lungs. An inferior vena cava filter or IVC filter is a small cone-shaped device that is implanted in the inferior vena cava just below the kidneys. The pulmonary arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. Blockage of one or both arteries is referred to as a pulmonary embolism (PE) and can cause difficulty breathing, chest pain, and death. The IVC filter works by permitting blood flow to continue around the trapped clot.