This document describes dispersive and Fourier-transform spectrometers that are used in infrared absorption spectroscopy. Common light sources are tungsten lamps, Nernst glowers, or glowbars. 
The term Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy originates from the fact that a Fourier transform (a mathematical process) is required to convert the raw data into the actual spectrum. In a Michelson interferometer adapted for FTIR, light from the polychromatic infrared source, approximately a black-body radiator, is collimated and directed to a beam splitter. Ideally 50% of the light is refracted towards the fixed mirror and 50% is transmitted towards the moving mirror.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Fourier transform spectroscopy is a measurement technique whereby spectra are collected based on measurements of the coherence of a radiative source, using time-domain or space-domain measurements of the electromagnetic radiation or other type of radiation. The Fourier transform spectrometer is just a Michelson interferometer but one of the two fully reflecting mirrors is movable, allowing a variable delay (in the travel-time of the light) to be included in one of the beams. The Michelson spectrograph is similar to the instrument used in the Michelson–Morley experiment.
Infrared spectroscopy (IR spectroscopy) is the spectroscopy that deals with the infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum, that is light with a longer wavelength and lower frequency than visible light. It covers a range of techniques, mostly based on absorption spectroscopy. 
FTIR spectroscopy is a measuring technique used to record infrared spectra. FTIR polymer identification of an unknown is done by matching the material's infrared peaks absorbance, to the peaks of similar infrared scans of known materials. FTIR scans are used during incoming inspection to ensure that the correct rubber was used during production. Accurate Products has great knowledge and experience in FTIR analysis. Contact us today for more information on FTIR Scans.
The method of Fourier transform spectroscopy can also be used for absorption spectroscopy. The primary example is  FTIR Spectroscopy , a common technique in chemistry. The Fourier transform spectrometer is just a Michelson interferometer but one of the two fully reflecting mirrors is movable, allowing a variable delay (in the travel-time of the light) to be included in one of the beams. The Michelson spectrograph is similar to the instrument used in the Michelson–Morley experiment.
Have a trained infrared spectroscopist analyze your spectra or sample. FTIR analysis via library identification is great on pure samples, but impure or mixture samples are very difficult to identify with FTIR library search programs. Fillers in polymers or additives in oil are two common examples of this. FTIR analysis (mid-infrared) and NIR (near infrared) techniques are used in NASA probes for detecting water on the moon and various other experiments. For the interpretation service alone, simply provide the FTIR, NIR, or Raman spectrum and an identification result with relevant interpretations will be provided.
FTIR redirects here. FTIR may also refer to Frustrated total internal reflection. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) is a technique which is used to obtain an infrared spectrum of absorption, emission, photoconductivity or Raman scattering of a solid, liquid or gas. In a Michelson interferometer adapted for FTIR, light from the polychromatic infrared source, approximately a black-body radiator, is collimated and directed to a beam splitter. Ideally 50% of the light is refracted towards the fixed mirror and 50% is transmitted towards the moving mirror.
It can be applied to a variety of types of spectroscopy including optical spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy (FTIR, FT-NIRS), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI), mass spectrometry and electron spin resonance spectroscopy. The Fourier transform spectrometer is just a Michelson interferometer but one of the two fully reflecting mirrors is movable, allowing a variable delay (in the travel-time of the light) to be included in one of the beams. The Michelson spectrograph is similar to the instrument used in the Michelson–Morley experiment.
FTIR (Fourier Transform Infrared) spectroscopy analysis and testing identifies chemical compounds. FTIR analysis helps clients understand materials and products. Analytical testing sample screens, profiless and data interpretation are available on a global basis. 