Penguins (order Sphenisciformes, family Spheniscidae) are a group of aquatic, flightless birds living almost exclusively in the Southern Hemisphere, especially in Antarctica. Highly adapted for life in the water, penguins have countershaded dark and white plumage, and their wings have evolved into flippers. The smallest penguin species is the little blue penguin (Eudyptula minor), also known as the fairy penguin, which stands around 40 cm (16 in) tall and weighs 1 kg (2.2 lb).
Penguins are found in a variety of habitats. Four of the 17 species of penguins live along the coast of Antarctica and the Antarctic Peninsula. The chinstrap penguin is one of four species of penguin which lives in Antarctica. It lives on some of the sub-Antarctic islands, and the Antarctic Peninsula, as well as the S … outhern Ocean. Its habitat is rocky and icy coasts, and the open ocean.
Click here to see pictures of penguins in their natural habitat. Body Covering. A penguin is a bird and is covered with feathers. Their feathers are short and thick. They form a waterproof coat. The feathers are black or bluish-gray, and the belly feathers are white. 
Penguin Natural Habitat. The habitat for penguins is going to depend on the type you are talking about. Some of them are able to live in the coldest parts of the world. Others live very close to the equator where it is quite warm. All penguins though reside within the Southern hemisphere. They are found on every single island there. 
Everything you ever wanted to know about a penguin’s habitat. A penguin’s habitat is naturally cold and watery. All varieties of the penguin are native to the southern hemisphere, and in fact, they can be found on every continent in the southern hemisphere. The penguin’s habitat also changes depending on what time of year it is. Penguins migrate from the breeding grounds to feeding areas along the coast. Some types of penguins travel very far during their migrations, while others travel only a short way.
The habitat and distribution of penguins seems to be very widespread due to their adaptability. They have a body that is covered with feathers, offering them protection from the water and from the cold air. What is very interesting about the distribution of penguins is their size. 
Penguin Habitat. There are 17 species of penguin, each slightly different. Some of the species have nicknames which can cause people to think there are more than 17 species (for example the Little penguin is also known as the Blue penguin). All of the species live in the Southern hemisphere. 
The Emperor penguins habitat is a harsh one where only a few sturdy and cold-tolerant species manage to survive. The Emperor penguins share their habitat with a few other penguin species, seals, sea birds, lichens, mosses and many different algae species. The Emperor penguins have developed fascinating anatomic features that help them to survive in the unforgiving Emperor penguins habitat. The Emperor penguins habitat is limited to the Antarctic and the surrounding sea, and unlike many other penguin species the Emperor penguins can rarely be found anywhere else in the world (unless they have been transported by man). The Emperor penguin is a marine bird, and it will only hunt in the ocean
Penguins are found in a variety of habitats. Four of the 17 species of penguins live along the coast of Antarctica and the Antarctic Peninsula. The chinstrap penguin is one of four species of penguin which lives in Antarctica. It lives on some of the sub-Antarctic islands, and the Antarctic Peninsula, as well as the S … outhern Ocean. Its habitat is rocky and icy coasts, and the open ocean.