Creatine is a chemical that is normally found in the body, mostly in muscles. It is made by the body and can also be obtained from certain foods. Fish and meats are good sources of creatine. Creatine can also be made in the laboratory. 
Creatine is normally found in meat and fish. Creatine is also naturally made in the human body in the kidney and liver. Creatine is mainly stored in muscles, but about 1.5-2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine daily. The finding that carbohydrates enhance muscle creatine uptake increased the market for creatine sports drinks.
Supplementing with Creatine Mono can replenish your creatine stores, an ingredient found naturally in foods like red meat.* Creatine helps fuel your muscles during high-intensity exercise.* Creatine isn't a stimulant like caffeine, so you may not feel it immediately. 
He later named the crystallized precipitate after the Greek word for meat, κρέας (kreas). Early analysis showed that human blood is approximately 1% creatine, and the highest concentrations are found in animal blood, brain (0.14%), muscle (0.50%), and testes (0.18%). The liver and kidney contain approximately 0.01% creatine. A 2003 study on athletes who took creatine for 21 months, found no significant changes in markers of renal function; a 2008 study on athletes who took creatine for 3 months, found no evidence of kidney damage during that time.
This is achieved by increasing the formation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Creatine was identified in 1832 when Michel Eugene Eugène chevreul isolated it from the basified-water extract of skeletal. Muscle he later named the crystallized precipitate after The greek word for, meat (κρέας). kreas A 2003 study on athletes who took creatine for 21 months, found no significant changes in markers of renal function; a 2008 study on athletes who took creatine for 3 months, found no evidence of kidney damage during that time.
Photo Credit Shaiith/iStock/Getty Images. Amino acids provide the building blocks for protein, and creatine is one such amino acid. It's found in meat, fish and endogenously in the human body. Your body converts creatine to creatine phosphate or phosphocreatine and stores it in muscle tissues, where it serves as a fuel.
Overview. Creatine is a naturally-occurring amino acid (protein building block) that's found in meat and fish, and also made by the human body in the liver, kidneys, and pancreas. It is converted into creatine phosphate or phosphocreatine and stored in the muscles, where it is used for energy. Most studies have found no significant side effects at the doses used for up to 6 months. Rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of skeletal muscle tissue) and sudden kidney failure was reported in one case involving an athlete taking more than 10 grams daily of creatine for 6 weeks.
Foods High in Creatine. Creatine monohydrate is a crystalline, colorless stuff found in muscle tissue. This is highly useful for the production of phosphocreatine, an element highly vital to produce (ATP) adenosine triphosphate. Another great source of natural creatine is fish like tuna, salmon, sashimi, and sushi, which has in it properties such as methionine and Omega 3 fatty acids that aid for creatine synthesis. Likewise, a minimal amount of creatine can be found in milk and cranberries.
ATP is the organic compound found in muscle which, upon being broken down enzymatically, yields energy for muscle contraction. Creatine enhances your body's ability to make protein within the muscle fibres, which also increases your muscle mass (Creatine increases cellular hydration. It is a combination of 3 amino acids; arginine, glycine and methionine. Creatine helps provide the energy our muscles need to move, particularly quick and explosive movements. Muscle contraction is initially fuelled by ATP (adenosine-triphosphate).