Natural diuretics. There are some natural foods that contain diuretics which help to reduce edema. Most of these natural diuretic foods have high water content and they usually aid in the removal of excess fluids that build up in the body to cause swelling. The following foods may naturally reduce edema. However, foods can also be diuretics too. Foods that can help reduce swelling are diuretics and they are just as safe and effective as diuretic herbs. Read on to find out which foods are the best natural diuretics and what other health benefits they can provide.
Limes as a Diuretic Limes act as a powerful diuretic, flushing toxins out of the body. Its high levels of bioflavonoids (antioxidants) help the body to dissolve mucus and scour for harmful free radicals. These toxins are then eliminated from the body as waste. The lime itself might be better. Adding lemon or lime juice to water is a simple strategy to help drop pounds and cleanse your body of unhealthy toxins. Squeeze some citrus flavor into water for an easy, natural way to lose weight. Diuretic Properties Lemon and lime juices are natural diuretics, so adding them to water helps flush the body of excess fluids
Besides these seven natural diuretics, cutting back on sodium and exercising more can also help reduce fluid buildup. Eating more fruits and vegetables that act as diuretics, like watermelon, grapes, berries, celery, asparagus, onions, garlic, and bell peppers, may be another beneficial solution. Learn about the top seven natural solutions. Diuretics help the body get rid of excess fluid, mainly water and sodium. Most stimulate the kidneys to excrete more sodium into the urine. When diuretics flush away sodium, the body also flushes away water
Cucumbers are rich in sulfur and silicon that stimulate the kidneys into better removal of uric acid. Watercress and artichokes are also natural diuretic foods. Beverages such as as coffee, green tea, carrot juice, cranberry juice, tea and lime water are diuretics. Asparagus contains asparigine; a chemical alkaloid that boosts kidney performance, thereby improving waste removal from the body. Search from our Articles. Natural diuretics are natural foods or herbs that allow increased flow of urine and thereby aid removal of fluids from the body. While natural diuretics aid removal of excess fluids from the body, it may also mean loss of important vitamins and minerals too. It is essential that they are supplemented to prevent loss of vital electrolytes. Look up some natural diuretic food that you can incorporate into your diet
There are certain herbs and foods that are natural diuretics. Including these foods in your diet can assist in alleviating fluid retention. These foods can be incorporated into the diet to produce an overall diuretic effect, while eliminating foods that cause water retention. 
Fruits and fruit juices that are high in the electrolyte mineral potassium are a natural diuretic. In particular, citrus fruits and juices, such as lemon juice, are natural diuretics. Similarly, pineapple, while not a citrus fruit, is a natural diuretic. In traditional African medicine, dried, powdered pineapple root is used as a natural treatment for edema, or fluid retention. 