Image Credit: Main Image: Cytosine is one of the four main bases found in DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), along with adenine, guanine, and thymine. Cytosine is one of the 5 nitrogenous bases that are attached to a 5 carbon sugar, pentose and a phosphate group to make nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three parts-a five carbon sugar, a phosphate group and an organic base. There are 2 variations of the sugar, depending on whether the nucleotide is in a DNA or RNA molecule. One of five different organic bases can be attached to each nucleotide-adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine or uracil. Cytosine, guanine and adenine are found in both RNA and DNA molecules, while thymine is only in DNA and uracil is only in RNA
Cytosine thymine guanine and adenine are the nitrogenous bases found in the nucleotides that form DNA.DNA is made up of 3 parts:(1)Phosphate group(2)Deoxyribose(3)Nitrogen containing base.Complimentary pairing/ bonding through weak hydrogen bonds occurs between Cytosine and Guanine(first pair) and Adenine and Thymine. 
The four nitrogen bases found in DNA are adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine. Each of these bases are often abbreviated a single letter: A (adenine), C (cytosine), G (guanine), T (thymine). The bases come in two categories: thymine and cytosine are pyrimidines, while adenine and guanine are purines (). The pyrimidine structure is produced by a six-membered, two-nitrogen molecule; purine refers to a nine-membered, four-nitrogen molecule. 
The sides of the ladder are composed of a sugar-phosphate combination. The rungs of the ladder are the nitrogenous bases adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. Each individual rung consists of two bases bonded together by hydrogen bonds. Because of their size and structure, purines always pair with pyrimidines.
They are cytosine, adenine, guanine, uracil and thymine. Each nucleotide contains one of the five organic bases. Guanine, cytosine and adenine are found in both DNA and RNA molecules, whereas thymine is found only in DNA and RNA contains only uracil of these five organic bases. All five of the bases comprises complex ring structure made up of nitrogen and carbon atoms.
As a nitrogenous base, cytosine is full of nitrogen atoms (it has three). It also has one ring of carbon, which makes it a pyrimidine. A purine, on the other hand, has two rings of carbon. There are two pyrimidines (cytosine and thymine) and two purines (adenine and guanine) in DNA. RNA also has two pyrimidines (cytosine and uracil) and two purines (adenine and guanine). In DNA, adenine and thymine are present in the same percentages and always pair with each other. That leaves cytosine to pair with its double-ringed buddy guanine. Cytosine also pairs with guanine in RNA
Nucleotides are composed of three units: base, sugar (monosaccharide) and phosphate. Bases are found in both DNA and RNA. As seen below, they are adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine, and uracil. They are abbreviated (A, C, G, T, U). adenine (A) cytosine (C) guanine (G) thymine (T) uracil (U). The sugar component in RNA is ribose and in DNA is deoxyribose (hence the name ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic acid). The third component of nucleotides is the phosphate ion.
Apart from adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), thymine (T) and uracil (U), DNA and RNA also contain bases that have been modified after the nucleic acid chain has been formed. In DNA, the most common modified base is 5-methylcytosine (m 5 C). 
Cytosine /ˈsaɪtɵsɨn/ (C) is one of the four main bases found in DNA and RNA, along with adenine, guanine, and thymine (uracil in RNA). 