Glial cells, sometimes called neuroglia or simply glia (Greek γλοία glue; pronounced in English as either /ˈɡliːə/ or /ˈɡlaɪə/), are non-neuronal cells that maintain homeostasis, form myelin, and provide support and protection for neurons in the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. As the Greek name implies, glia are commonly known as the glue of the nervous system; however, this is not fully accurate. Neuroscience currently identifies four main functions of glial cells: 1  To surround neurons and hold them in place. 2  To supply nutrients and oxygen to neurons.
The nervous system is comprised of two primary cell types: neurons and glial cells. These cells communicate with each other to perform important tasks in the nervous system. The glial cells support neurons structurally and maintain their long-term neuronal integrity, and neurons regulate glial cell behavior. 
1 Neurons CAN generate action potentials...glial cells CANNOT. 2  However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 3  Neurons HAVE synapses that use neurotransmitters...glial cells do NOT have chemical synapses. 4  There are many MORE (10-50 times more) glial cells in the brain compared to the number of neurons. 1 However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 2  Neurons HAVE synapses that use neurotransmitters...glial cells do NOT have chemical synapses. 3
There are a few ways in which glia cells are different from neurons: 1  Neurons have TWO processes called axons and dendrites....glial cells have only ONE. 2  Neurons CAN generate action potentials...glial cells CANNOT. 3  However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 1 However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 2  Neurons HAVE synapses that use neurotransmitters...glial cells do NOT have chemical synapses. 3  There are many MORE (10-50 times more) glial cells in the brain compared to the number of neurons.
The nervous system is the part of an animal 's body that coordinates its voluntary and involuntary actions and transmits signals to and from different parts of its body. Nervous tissue first arose in wormlike organisms about 550 to 600 million years ago. The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the body to others and to receive feedback. Malfunction of the nervous system can occur as a result of genetic defects, physical damage due to trauma or toxicity, infection or simply of ageing.
At the cellular level, the nervous system is defined by the presence of a special type of cell, called the neuron, also known as a nerve cell. Neurons have special structures that allow them to send signals rapidly and precisely to other cells. The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the body to others and to receive feedback. Malfunction of the nervous system can occur as a result of genetic defects, physical damage due to trauma or toxicity, infection or simply of ageing.
They communicate with one another, with cells in the sensory organs, and with muscles and glands. Each neuron has the same structure: 1  Each neuron has a soma, or cell body, which is the central area of the neuron. 2  It contains the nucleus and other structures common to all cells in the body, such as mitochondria. 
1 These cells receive signals from and send signals to other nerve cells. 2  Interneurons serve to process information in many different ways and constitute the bulk of the human nervous system. 3  Effectors or motor neurons are the third class of neurons. 
Nerve Tissue. Although the nervous system is very complex, there are only two main types of cells in nerve tissue. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. The word neuroglia means nerve glue.. These cells are nonconductive and provide a support system for the neurons. They are a special type of connective tissue for the nervous system.
1 Neurons have TWO processes called axons and dendrites....glial cells have only ONE. 2  Neurons CAN generate action potentials...glial cells CANNOT. 3  However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 4  Neurons HAVE synapses that use neurotransmitters...glial cells do NOT have chemical synapses. 1 However, glial cells do have a resting potential. 2  Neurons HAVE synapses that use neurotransmitters...glial cells do NOT have chemical synapses. 3  There are many MORE (10-50 times more) glial cells in the brain compared to the number of neurons.