I am planning to travel to India (COK airport, Kerala) from United States. I want to take my laptop as well as my tablet (iPad). Am I allowed to take both in my backpack with my documents related my work. I think I am allowed to take only one computer as per the rule. 
Reply. I heard that the tax for TV had been lifted away in India, i am coming from Dubai to India and with me is 42 inch LCD/LED TV,the total cost of it is 1500 dhs here in Dubai that is around 25,000 INR.Can someone assure me whats the situation right now in India especially south india. 
Best Answer: Yes, no problems. You can carry cameras, video cameras, video games,laptop, etc. A laptop should be in a separate bag and that normally counts as the carry-on bag so stuff your pockets full of everything else you want to take if security insist on only bag being allowed. 
You CAN take inside India any electronics items for valid use by you *ONLY IF* you declare in *RED CHANNEL* AND *GET IMPORT CERTIFICATE*. MAKE sure you have the Certificate and the item when you leave India. This way you *DO NOT* have to pay *ANY* Customs Duty. 
Import duty for bringing laptops into India In General, If you are travelling from USA, Canada, Australia, Europe,.. and aged above 18 years... stayed more then 3 days abroad... carried on the person (carry on baggage) or as accompanied baggage (checked baggage)... 
Answer: There is no such thing as zero duty on gold taken to India by a passenger. The only duty free allowance that is allowed is on gold ornaments and is limited to Rupees 10,000* for men and Rupees 20,000 for women. (Amounts have changed. To view updated info Tap HERE Passengers can take gold to India provided they declare and pay the applicable customs duty in India. Up to 10 Kilograms of gold per passenger can be imported to India provided the period of stay abroad has been at least six months.
I wasadvised to get an export certificate 2 days in advance the next time itravel, and for now take the jewelry with me. My question is why indian government is not amending the rule &increase a cap on Gold import. i am in dubai since last 10 years, ieven didn't purchase peace of gold from india in last 10years.
With due respect to Indian Authorities, I'm not from India by the way.Indians have a great love for gold that you see eventoddlers wears these ornaments. Why can'tyou just relax the law of taxing and let people enjoy and flaunttheir acquired wealth. My question is why indian government is not amending the rule &increase a cap on Gold import. i am in dubai since last 10 years, ieven didn't purchase peace of gold from india in last 10years.
So, if you bring a SONY Tv from USA to India, you will end up paying higher customer duty since they are more expensive here.Repairs and warranty coverage out of countryMany manufacturer warranties are void if you ship an item out of state. This is because of the difference in the consumer laws from state to state. We moved from USA to India in May 2011 and brought 2 High Definition TVs. One of them is a 4 year old, 42 inch Panasonic Plasma TV. The second one is a new Sony Bravio, 3D enabled, 55 inch LED TV.
Hi Can you let me know what will the duty that i will have to pay for a LG47inch TV, which my relative in Malaysia is sending as my marriage gift. i can see the new rate is 35 + 1.05%, but whether it is calculated on the bill rate which was purched in Malaysia or it will be % calculated on indian rates. 