Hemoglobin in the blood carries oxygen from the respiratory organs (lungs or gills) to the rest of the body (i.e. the tissues). There it releases the oxygen to permit aerobic respiration to provide energy to power the functions of the organism in the process called metabolism. Hemoglobin and hemoglobin-like molecules are also found in many invertebrates, fungi, and plants. In these organisms, hemoglobins may carry oxygen, or they may act to transport and regulate other things such as carbon dioxide, nitric oxide, hydrogen sulfide and sulfide.
Best Answer: Haemoglobin is a protein and all proteins contain the elements Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Carbon and Oxygen only but Haemoglobin also contains Iron. Hemoglobin or haemoglobin is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red cells of the blood in mammals and other animals. The molecule consists of globin, the apoprotein, and four haem groups, an organic molecule with an iron atom. Source(s): wikipedia. Ed F · 9 years ago.
The name hemoglobin comes from heme and globin, since each subunit of hemoglobin is a globular protein with an embedded heme (or haem) group. Each heme group contains an iron atom, and this is responsible for the binding of oxygen. The presence of hemoglobin in blood increases the oxygen carrying ability of a litre of blood from 5 to 250 ml. Hemoglobin also plays a major role in the transport of carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. The iron atom in heme binds to the 4 nitrogen atoms in the centre of the porphyrin ring, but this leaves two free bonding sites for the iron, one on either side of the heme plane. The heme group is located in a crevice in the myoglobin molecule, surrounded by non-polar residues except for two polar histidines.
Thus, each hemoglobin molecule can bind one molecule of oxygen. The binding of oxygen by one monomer increases the affinity for oxygen of the others in the tetramer. This makes hemoglobin a more efficient transport protein than a monomeric protein such as myoglobin. Each erythrocyte contains 200 to 300 molecules of hemoglobin, each molecule of hemoglobin contains four groups of heme, and each group of heme can carry one molecule of oxygen. A hemoglobin molecule contains four globin polypeptide chains composed of amino acids.
Leghemoglobin from soybean. Leghemoglobin (also leghaemoglobin or legoglobin) is a nitrogen or oxygen carrier, because naturally occurring oxygen and nitrogen interact similarly with this protein; and a hemoprotein found in the nitrogen-fixing root nodules of leguminous plants. 
Oxygen-Carrying Protein in the Blood: Hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the protein that transports oxygen (O 2) in human blood from the lungs to the tissues of the body. Proteins are formed by the linking of amino acids into polypeptide chains. In hemoglobin, each subunit contains a heme group, which is displayed using the ball-and-stick representation in Figure 2. Each heme group contains an iron atom that is able to bind to one oxygen (O 2) molecule.
In vertebrates, these molecules are the proteins myoglobin and hemoglobin. Red blood cells (above) contain hemoglobin. Blood is bright red (left), due the presence of oxy-hemoglobin. Hemoglobin (or haemoglobin, frequently abbreviated as Hb), which is contained in red blood cells, serves as the oxygen carrier in blood. The iron atom in heme binds to the 4 nitrogen atoms in the centre of the porphyrin ring, but this leaves two free bonding sites for the iron, one on either side of the heme plane. The heme group is located in a crevice in the myoglobin molecule, surrounded by non-polar residues except for two polar histidines.
Report Abuse. Hemoglobin or haemoglobin is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red cells of the blood in mammals and other animals. The molecule consists of globin, the apoprotein, and four haem groups, an organic molecule with an iron atom. Source(s): wikipedia. Ed F · 9 years ago.
Hemoglobin (American English) or haemoglobin (British English) is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red blood cells of the blood in vertebrates and other animals. In mammals the protein makes up about 97% of the red cell’s dry content, and around 35% of the total content (including water). Hemoglobin or haemoglobin is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red cells of the blood in mammals and other animals. The molecule consists of globin, the apoprotein, and four haem groups, an organic molecule with an iron atom. Source(s): wikipedia. Ed F · 9 years ago.
Hemoglobin is also found outside red blood cells and their progenitor lines. Other cells that contain hemoglobin include the A9 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, macrophages, alveolar cells, and mesangial cells in the kidney. Hemoglobin and hemoglobin-like molecules are also found in many invertebrates, fungi, and plants. In these organisms, hemoglobins may carry oxygen, or they may act to transport and regulate other things such as carbon dioxide, nitric oxide, hydrogen sulfide and sulfide.