Best Answer: Cost-to-Company Cost to Company (CTC) is a term used to describe an investment without return. Travel expenditures, interviewing, spending time with potential customers can all be interpreted as CTC's. CTC, as mentioned is Cost-to-Company, which means Salary and its various heads and other benefits. Each company accounts different heads und
The phrase  Cost to Company or CTC, as it is commonly known, means different figures to different people. -For the Company, Cost to company is a term which essentially implies the amount of expenses the company will spend on an employee in a particular year. What may be an expense for the company need not necessarily be salary for the employee.
CTC is not the actual salary of an employee, it also includes all the facilities an employee is getting during the service period. Suppose take an example ABC,a graduate, was happy as he got placement and was offered a salary package of Rs 3.6 lakh annual CTC (cost to company). Cost to Company (CTC) is the salary package of an employee.
-For employees, Cost to company is an amount projected by the company as salary but is never what is actually received by the employee in cash. -For the Finance Manager it is the total cost incurred to hire, maintain, retain the employees and may also include a part of overhead cost allocation. -For the Company, Cost to company is a term which essentially implies the amount of expenses the company will spend on an employee in a particular year. What may be an expense for the company need not necessarily be salary for the employee.
CTC basically stands for COST TO COMPANY...that is the total amount the company is willing to spend on its employee...the ctc includes the gross salary and the things like HRA(home rent allowance),petrol allowance and perqs if any...the CTC is not the amount which will be directly taxed... chetan · 9 years ago. 3. Accuracy levels: It is our expectation that the salary indicator will be 90% accurate within a band of +/- 20% of the indicated salary figure i.e. 90% of persons will fall within the band.
Best Answer: 1. The indicator has been designed based on salary levels prevailing as on 1.5.2005 and will be updated regularly. 2. Salary means gross pre-tax salary (CTC) inclusive of all components (monthly, annual, retiral and deferred payments). 3. Accuracy levels: It is our expectation that the salary indicator will be 90% accurate within a band of +/- 20% of the indicated salary figure i.e. 90% of persons will fall within the band.
CTC vs Gross Salary. A salary is the periodic payment that an employee receives from an employer in return for the work he provides. An employee, when seeking employment, will always look towards CTC, or Cost to Company, and gross salary. The difference between CTC and gross salary, is that some components are included in one, but not in the other. Cost to Company is the amount that an employer will spend on an employee in a particular year, whereas, gross salary is the amount an employee receives as a salary, before any deductions. Though these are included in the CTC, these may vary from one company to another. In regards to gross salary, it is the amount that the employer has committed to pay an employee on a monthly basis. A gross salary will not include the contributions to the PF and gratuity, among other things.
CTC Stands For COST TO COMPANY. It is the Salary which is the gross pre-tax salary inclusive of all components (monthly, annual, retiral and deferred payments). Current CTC m … eans current drawn salary usually in terms of dollars per year package. Expected CTC means salary you are expecting usually in terms of dollars per year package. More Clearly... CTC stands for COST TO COMPANY. this includes: GROSS SALARY + incentives that are provided from the firm. incentives includes many things like meal, medical facilities, phone facilities, house facilities, travel allowance etc.
Cost to company (CTC) is the total cost that an employee is incurring in a company. Net Salary is what an employee get to his/her hand after deductions. (This is the take home salary). The relation between the two: 1  CTC = Gross Salary + Other benefits (from the company’s perspective). 