The automatic temperature control module uses several input sensors. The ambient or outside air temperature sensor is a variable resister. If the outside temperature is colder than the factory set value, or the sensor or it's circuit is faulty, the automatic temperature control will not engage the compressor clutch. Answer C is wrong. Technician B is correct. Answer D is wrong.
A mass (air) flow sensor (MAF) is used to find out the mass flowrate of air entering a fuel-injected internal combustion engine. The air mass information is necessary for the engine control unit (ECU) to balance and deliver the correct fuel mass to the engine. 
Location: The AAT sensor used as an ambient temperature sensor may be located behind the front grill or bumper fascia or inside one of the front fenders. Where the AAT is used for climate control several sensors may be used within the climate control system. The sensor could be mounted in a concealed location where it will be exposed to the cabin temperature or it may be found within the air duct system to control air blend doors for individual passenger comfort.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Ambient Temperature sensor collects the information about the outside air temperature and feeds it to the ECU. This information is needful coz the air to fuel ratio is decided and fed to the engine accordingly. I have a 2003 Maxima SE. The ambient air temp sensor is yellow and it is located inside the grill under the hood latch-between the round bells for the horn. You will n … eed a pair of plyers to hold the top of the yellow piece and a small flat screwdriver to push the little tab that hold the two parts of it together. Good Luck!
Be prepared for it with an ambient temperature sensor. This sensor is mounted to a bracket that is screwed securely to the right side of the headlamp mounting module grille opening, which is at the back of the radiator grille and in front of the engine compartment. 
Automotive air conditioning systems use NTC sensors to monitor air temperature. The In Car Temperature sensor (ICTS) is an NTC that monitors the air temperature of the passenger compartment. The ambient temperature sensor (ATS) monitors the air temperature outside of the vehicle. In the illustration, the ambient air temperature sensor is located behind the grill. It’s typically located behind the grill or front bumper. This is why they’re sometimes damaged in a front end collision.
Ambient Air Temperature Sensor. The ambient (ATC) or outside air temperature sensor is an (NTC) negative temperature coefficient sensor that informs the semiautomatic/automatic temperature control system of outside air temperature. The NTC sensor’s resistance decreases as the outside air temperature increases. In the illustration, the ambient air temperature sensor is located behind the grill. It’s typically located behind the grill or front bumper. This is why they’re sometimes damaged in a front end collision.
IAT function. The Intake Air Temperature sensor (IAT) has been utilised as an Engine Control Unit (ECU) input signal from the very first EFI systems to the currently used systems, as a requirement for calculating the Air Mass volume for the incoming air charge. 