The tension of your racquet strings will greatly affect your game. For many players, finding the right tension is a matter of trial and error. Before making your selection, take a look at your racquet. Manufacturers typically test racquets and denote a recommended string tension range on the side of the racquet’s frame. Tennis racquet string comes in a variety of materials. Learn more about which one is right for your game: Monofilament Strings: This is a solid piece of string created from a synthetic material. Monofilament strings are highly durable, but lack the feel, elasticity and comfort of their multifilament counterparts.
10. How do I know when I need to restring my racquet? There is a typical rule...the number of hours you play a week is the optimal number of times to restring your racquet in a year. So players that play 3 hours a week should look to restring every 4 months or so.
Enhance Your Game with the Right Tennis String Tension. For many players, tennis string tension is an often overlooked aspect of their tennis racquet. However, the tension in which a player strings their racquet can have significant impact on the overall performance and feel of their tennis racquet. You can string your racquet loose, which will result in a lower tension or you can string your racquet tight, which would result in a higher tension. Generally speaking, a lower string tension will provide a player with more power and a higher tension will provide a player with more control.
Strings may be the soul of racquet, but to many players they are just an afterthought. Players will spend 6 months demoing racquets and 6 minutes choosing a string. Fortunately, synthetic string technology has improved dramatically over the last 20 years and there are very few “bad” strings. 
For example, if your racquet says the recommended string tension is 55 lbs – 60 lbs start with 58 lbs and see how it feels. Based on the performance of the racquet and overall feel, you can adjust the tension higher or lower based on your preference. You can string your racquet loose, which will result in a lower tension or you can string your racquet tight, which would result in a higher tension. Generally speaking, a lower string tension will provide a player with more power and a higher tension will provide a player with more control.
Grommets are the plastic pieces around your racquet that protect the top of your frame from the wall. They are also the little pieces you see coming through the holes of your frame that the string actually comes through. They keep your strings safe. Good grommets are essential for good string life. There is a typical rule...the number of hours you play a week is the optimal number of times to restring your racquet in a year. So players that play 3 hours a week should look to restring every 4 months or so.
With the best tennis racquet string in the game, you can adjust your play to perfection. Your tennis string is critical to your game’s performance. This component of your racquet affects the feel, control and power on the court. Many players take time to experiment with different string materials and tensions to find the exact combo that’s right for them. Tennis racquet string comes in a variety of materials. Learn more about which one is right for your game: Monofilament Strings: This is a solid piece of string created from a synthetic material. Monofilament strings are highly durable, but lack the feel, elasticity and comfort of their multifilament counterparts.
RACQUET STRINGING. It’s a fact-the more you play, the greater change in the tension of your strings. To keep your power and precision at their best, your racquet needs regular restringing. Racquet PROS in every store are certified to perform custom stringing for your new racquet, or can restring your trusted racquet to get it right back where you need it. Ask your local Racquet PRO about the string and stringing services that will keep you playing the game you love. Demo up to two racquets at a time, and apply up to $20 in demo fees towards a new racquet purchase. 7-Day Demo*. $10.00**. *$5 late fee per day, for each racquet. **Apply up to $20 in demo fees towards a new racquet purchase. DICK’S Sporting Goods is stocked with all your game essentials.
All the racquets today have a range of 28-34 lbs for tension. The problem is that when you pull a racquet off the shelf you have no idea what the tension actually is. Most racquets are strung with a simple synthetic monocore string. The strings are 16 or 17 gauge. There is a typical rule...the number of hours you play a week is the optimal number of times to restring your racquet in a year. So players that play 3 hours a week should look to restring every 4 months or so.
268. lionel_101, Jun 10, 2010. I string basucally just racquetball racquets, as that is the sport I play. I can string any make of racquetball racquet on my Gamma X-2, and you should be able to do the same on your Gamma 5003. It should be easier on your machine because of the fixed clamps and the brake. 