An inorganic molecule is a substance that does not contain carbon; they are not normally found in living things. Actually, there are plenty of inorganic compounds in living … things. But yes, as the name implies, inorganic chemistry is that chemistry that is not organic chemistry-the chemistry of carbon. This is an organic compound  with the formula:    CH3.COOH  …   In vinegar, ethanoic acid makes up only some 5% of the total, the  rest being mainly water, which is inorganic. So, vinegar is dilute  acetic acid and is an organic compound substance.
Organic compounds are said to be the ones that contain a carbon-hydrogen bond. Most of the inorganic compounds do not contain carbon. There are many exceptions to this definition in the case of both organic and inorganic compounds. Organic substances include nucleic acids, fats, sugars, proteins, enzymes and fuels. All these substances include
Inorganic compounds can be defined as any compound that is not organic. Some simple compounds which contain carbon are usually considered inorganic. These include carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonates, cyanides, cyanates, carbides, and thiocyanates. Examples range from substances that are strictly inorganic, such as [Co(NH3)6]Cl3, to organometallic compounds, such as Fe(C5H5)2, and extending to bioinorganic compounds, such as the hydrogenase enzymes.
Inorganic Compounds. An inorganic compound is any compound that lacks a carbon atom, for lack of a more in-depth definition. Those compounds with a carbon atom are called organic compounds, due to their root base in an atom that is vital for life. This compound contains only two atoms, sodium (Na) and chlorine (Cl). Examples of Inorganic Compounds: 1. H 2 O-Water is a simple inorganic compound, even though it contains hydrogen, a key atom (along with carbon) in many organic compounds.
An inorganic compound is a compound that is considered not  organic . Inorganic compounds are traditionally viewed as being synthesized by the agency of geological systems. In contrast, organic compounds are found in biological systems. The distinction between inorganic and organic compounds is not always clear. Examples range from substances that are strictly inorganic, such as [Co(NH3)6]Cl3, to organometallic compounds, such as Fe(C5H5)2, and extending to bioinorganic compounds, such as the hydrogenase enzymes.
Best Answer: Inorganic compound From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Inorganic substance) Jump to: navigation, search Main article: inorganic chemistry An inorganic compound is a chemical compound that is not an organic compound. 
Report Abuse. ORGANIC compounds require CARBON. INORGANIC compounds lack carbon. It is that simple folks. A. Water and salts do not contain carbon are are not produced by organic chemical processes. The other three are compunds produced by organic living things. Organic compounds are those that contain carbon and hydrogen. Enzymes and hormones are very complex organic substances (biochemistry is a branch off of organic chemistry). The correct answer is A. Water does not contain carbon, nor do most salts.