In Egypt in particular, the cat became associated with several deities with cat or lion heads such as Sekhmet and Mafdet. Cats were mummified in reverence to the Goddess Baste … t, and were given equal repect in life; with the death of a cat, the owners would go into mourning as if it were a human. The symbol of the Cat in Animal Farm is a topic of debate, and this answer might not be 100% true, so you might want to double-check with other links and websites. 2 people found this useful.
Cat represents having a finely tuned sense of self care, self pace and self nourishment, take time to yourself, to pamper yourself with pure delight... just like a Cat! Practice being just like the Cat spirit animal symbol, do it with style and grace, offering no apologies or excuses ... Cat is a powerful totem when you are in need of independence and self confidence. Cat moves in elegant and beguiling ways, lending to her mystery and her magic. Cat knows the ways of the magic realm, whenever you do magic or ritual work Cat will come to your side having been drawn to the energies, staying near...
They had multiple cat goddesses, including Bast, Sekmet (goddess with the head of a lioness), and Mafdet (goddess having come before Bast, who represented feral Egyptian cats). Each of these gods is female, which supports the association many have between cats and women. Cats are also associated with female medicine. Cats were domesticated in Egypt around 2100 BCE for the purpose of hunting. The Celts also had a fondness for felines, associating them with their goddess Brighid. In this case, cats were representative of friends and companions, much like dogs are thought of. The Celts saw certain qualities in cats, like sensitivity and stealth, and attempted to copy them
Here are the true meanings of Cats, Cats have many symbols, ranging from the devillish to godly. Often times, many people think that cats represent sin and the devil, but it's not true. Cats symbolize a deeper understanding of our natural world, as if they posess a psychic mind, as in the Black Panther. Cats are very treasured animals. Due to their beauty and gracefulness, they were once worshipped as gods (i.e. the female Egyptian god Bastet).
What is the real meaning for the cat, ive looked at descriptions but it doesnt tell me enough i need to know what he is standing for in the book/movie...I would rather have a description on why you think he is there and what you think the meaning of him is. 10 following. 11 answers 11. 
The maneki-neko (Japanese: 招き猫, literally beckoning cat) is a common Japanese figurine (lucky charm, talisman) which is often believed to bring good luck to the owner. In modern times, they are usually made of ceramic or plastic. The coin ties into the cat's part in bringing good fortune and wealth. It is not surprising then that maneki-neko are often fashioned as coin banks, a practice which goes back at least to the 1890s, much like the Western piggy bank.
There is a wild tabby-like cat in Scotland, but otherwise, the only other feral cats are mostly those that have reverted from domestication. Anyone who has spent any time around cats knows that they can be very solitary animals. The evoke the spirit of independence, cleverness, and of course, curiosity. Cats are also associated with female medicine. Cats were domesticated in Egypt around 2100 BCE for the purpose of hunting. The Celts also had a fondness for felines, associating them with their goddess Brighid. In this case, cats were representative of friends and companions, much like dogs are thought of.
Here the cat was also considered a guardian of homes and a symbol of domestic goodness. In Muslim lore, the cat is honored for saving Mohammad from an attack by a fierce snake. Here it is believed the M marking on the forehead of many tabby cats is the mark of the prophet (M for Mohammad). Animal Symbolism: Meaning of the Cat. A Look at the Symbolic Meaning of Cats. As an ancient symbolic Celtic animal, the cat represents the guardian of the Otherworld (or Underworld, depending which texts you read from various regions). Stoic, silent and mysterious, cats fit the bill of Otherworld guardians quite well