Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It really depends on your driving style. Typically, brake pads on the front last for anywhere from 30 to 60,000 miles. If they just squeek the first couple of times braking every day, then its probably from rust trying to form on the rotors after its been sitting for a while. What is a normal or average life span for brake pads for disk brakes.
Brake Pads. Except for brake fluid, brake pads usually need to be replaced more often than any other part in the brake system. The average lifespan for the pads is around 30,000 miles, but with very careful driving it could be twice that. If driving conditions are rough or the driver has bad breaking habits, the brake pads may only last 15,000 to 20,000 miles. Hemera Technologies/PhotoObjects.net/Getty Images. Brake Rotors. Brake rotors are the section of the brake that attaches to the wheels and helps slow the car down. Rotors are more difficult to judge in terms of lifespan. Typically the second or third time the driver replaces brake pads the mechanic will also inspect the brake rotors to see if they are worn out.
Oct 08 2011, 7:22pm. Hello, I removed the rear wheels on my truck just to inspect the condition of the rear brake pads and was surprised that it looks like maybe 25% lining remaining on the pads. My truck has the original 26,300 miles from an older one owner man. He never used the truck for any real work (hauling or towing)
While brake pads can last anywhere from 15,000 to 35,000 miles or more, rotors are generally expected to last through three or four brake pads changes. Because driving conditions, driving styles and other factors influence rotor life, it is difficult to come up with an average life expectancy for them. 
Brake wear is an indeterminate science – in some cases the brake pads will do 70,000 miles while other drivers will find they need changing after only 25,000 miles. The type of vehicle, type of use and your driving style all have an influence on pad life. Expect to replace front discs and pads during a vehicle's life due to wear and rears due to corrosion. You can expect to have to replace front discs and pads during a vehicle's life due to wear but are more likely to have to replace rear pads and discs because of
You can get a little more mileage out of semi-metalic brake pads, and ceramics are even better so when you replace the old ones make sure you get the appropriate upgrade. BTW, some auto manufacturers use semi-metalics as original equipment.   My experience: I put 70k on my car in four years. 
I' have 71,000 miles on my brakes and they are still going fine. On some GM vehicles if you let off the gas and tap the brake once or twice it decells at a different rate. Try it. On the question about downshifting the transmission from drive to 3rd to second. 
Mechanics and manufacturers have a loosely agreed upon mileage range from around 30,000 to 70,000 miles (48,280 to 112,654 kilometers), but stories of pads lasting a mere 100 miles (160.9 kilometers) to an astounding 100,000 miles (160,934 kilometers) abound. These far-ranging numbers are understandable. Pads come in an array of types and compositions -- from composite to metallic to ceramic -- and are attached to an even more bewildering array of brake systems and rotors, all of which affect the life of the pad. But this same stopping power means more of the pad material is worn away during a stop. Because of this, organic pads last the least amount of time on average. Semimetallic pads, the pads that are now on most cars, are harder and last longer but they don't stop as effectively as organic pads do.