How do you spell it in kanji? Also what does the name mean? there are lots of kanji for 'rin'. these are good kanji for someone's name. 鈴(=a bell) 隣 (=the next door, the next seat, side by side) 凜 (=dignified) you can also use 'りん' and 'リン' as name. i think '凜' and 'りん' are really cool name for girl. · just now. Report Abuse. Yes, Rin is a Japanese name for female. It is pronounced  ri n  and spelled  凛  in kanji. It is not as common as Emily or Hannah in America. This name is comparatively rare in Japan. And this character  凛  has the meaning of  a gallant figure  or dignified behavior. Source(s): I am Japanese and live in Japan
6,792 pages on this wiki. Kagamine means Mirror Sound; Kagami 鏡, mirror and 'Ne' 音, sound. The name Rin (リン) has many different meanings and without Crypton making an official statement the given answer here is an assumption. The name Rin could be reference to the Kanji form of Bell. The name Len (レン) does not appear to have Japanese origins, so again, the answer will be an assumption. Sources online state that Len means Lion strength or general reference to a lion. 
Rin means too many things. Rin means bell. Rin means forest. Rin means food. Rin means companion. Rin means an uncountable number of things. I cant tell which Rin youre asking about since the categories say Naruto and Inuyasha, but Naruto's Rin probably means bell due to the bell test, And Inuyasha's Rin could mean forest, food, or companion.
Japanese names can be written in a great number of different ways, using different kanji which would give them different possible meanings. One way of writing Rin is 凛, mean … ing 'cold, dignity' or 倫 'meaning 'companion'. 6 people found this useful. Katara is a Japanese name that means wanting hope, Water, and to check, block or card. In Greek it means Cursed. Katara also means Blessed, Pure, Holy Hill. Kya is an African name that means Diamond in the sky.
Rin is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Rin. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 12750 in baby name popularity for girls with 8 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Rin Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Rin has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Rin to other names. Rin is a diminutive (nickname) of Rina.
The name Sesshomaru/Sesshoumaru means 'killing perfection'/'perfect killer' in Japanese. Sesshou means to take life away. Maru means perfect/perfection. His name is pretty … deep and complicated, but basically means Killer/destroyer of the circle/of life OR The destroyer of the circle of life. Katara is a Japanese name that means wanting hope, Water, and to check, block or card. In Greek it means Cursed. Katara also means Blessed, Pure, Holy Hill. Kya is an African name that means Diamond in the sky.
[ 1 syll. rin, ri-n ] The baby boy name Rin is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is Riy-N †. Rin is derived from Japanese origins. The name is of the meaning from the park; a good companion. Rin is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names
[ 1 syll. rin, ri-n ] The baby girl name Rin is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced as Riy-N †. Rin has its origins in the Japanese language and it is also used largely in Japanese. The name Rin means 'park'. Forms of Rin include the names Rinako, Rini, Ryn, and Rynn. Rin is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names.