Calming for Stomach Ailments. One of the reasons why lemon balm tea may be considered so useful with intestinal issues or cramps is due to the fact that it contains special oils which can help relax the muscles in the uterus, stomach, and bladder.
Lemon balm can be used to produce an herbal tea, drunk as a beverage. It has a pleasing, lemony flavor, and makes an outstanding iced tea. As a medicinal herb, lemon balm has … many uses, including as a relaxing herb, and an anti-microbial agent (antiviral, antibacterial, and antifungal).
Lemon balm is wonderful when used to make hot or cold tea, and its flavor blends very well with black tea and herbs such as mint, lemon verbena, anise, fennel, and fenugreek. Leaves and flowers make uniquely flavorful jelly and herbed vinegar as well as creamy dressings, dips, and spreads.
Lemon verbena, which has a distinct lemon lilt, does not taste like any of the other lemon-based plants, like lemon balm, lemon mint, lemon thyme or lemon grass. It has a lighter, less aggressive flavor that can be best described as lemon perfume.
Lemon balm leaves, when steeped in boiling water to make an herbal tea, produce a mellow, pleasing herbal tea with a mild lemony scent. The fresh leaves are a bit fuzzy, and not terribly pleasant to taste. They taste a lot like any leaves, but with a mild lemony scent. Lemon balm tea is delicious, and is particularly good iced.
Confidence votes 3.3K. Lemon balm leaves, when steeped in boiling water to make an herbal tea, produce a mellow, pleasing herbal tea with a mild lemony scent. The fresh leaves are a bit fuzzy, and not terribly pleasant to taste. They taste a lot like any leaves, but with a mild lemony scent. Lemon balm tea is delicious, and is particularly good iced.
Lemon balm is an herb that is part of the mint family and is most often grown in Europe and the Mediterranean. It is a small shrub like plant with oval shaped leaves and occasionally small white flowers can be seen growing from it as well.
Lemon balm leaves, when steeped in boiling water to make an herbal tea, produce a mellow, pleasing herbal tea with a mild lemony scent. The fresh leaves are a bit fuzzy, and n … ot terribly pleasant to taste. They taste a lot like any leaves, but