Frenchman Lake is located on Little Last Chance Creek, a tributary of the Middle Fork Feather River, about 37 miles northwest of Reno and 26 miles northeast of Portola. Frenchman Lake typifies the beauty of the Plumas County region with its forested lands. Rainbow trout, including Eagle Lake strain, are stocked in Frenchman Lake. Mule deer are the area's most common big game.
While best viewed at dusk and dawn, be sure to lower your speed to avoid a potential collision. The Frenchman River Valley The Frenchman River Valley is a beautiful yet rugged area that was carved by glaciers many years ago. The valley begins on the outside edge of the Cypress Hills. - Only leave the main road when the brochure mentions it is safe to do so. The prairie environment is very fragile and must be protected.- The Frenchman River Valley and surrounding country is filled with wildlife such as whitetail and mule deer, antelope, coyotes, rabbits, and perhaps even moose.
Frenchman's Bar Park, Vancouver, Washington. View of the southern end of the park. Image taken July 3, 2005. Frenchman's Bar and Frenchman's Bar Park are located on the Washington side of the Columbia River at River Mile (RM) 100.5. The area was named after Paul Haury, a French sailor who jumped ship in British Columbia and later bought land in the area west of Vancouver. Volleyball, Frenchman's Bar Park, Vancouver, Washington. Sauvie Island and the Columbia River (looking downstream) are in the background. Image taken July 3, 2005.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Frenchman Creek is a spring-fed waterway that begins in Phillips County, Colorado, crosses Chase and Hayes counties in Nebraska and ends at its juncture with the Republican River in Hitchcock County, Nebraska. The length of the waterway is approximately 166 miles (267 km). 
About Us. Frenchman’s Landing Campground is the area’s only RV campground on the main channel of the scenic upper Mississippi River. Only 7 miles north of Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin with beautiful overnight and seasonal campsites. For more information see our Amenities and Rates page.
Frenchman River, or Frenchman Creek, is a river in Saskatchewan, Canada and Montana, United States. It is a tributary of the Milk River, itself a tributary of the Missouri. The river is approximately 341 kilometers (212 mi) long. The name origin is uncertain, although both metis and francophone settlers inhabited its banks at the turn of the 20th century. The Frenchman Formation, a stratigraphical unit of the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin was named for the river.
About Us Frenchman River Model Works is truly a mom and pop operation. It was begun back in 1994 by Jim Cleveland and was produced under the name of JD Innovations. Jim had been working to restart JD Innovations under the current name of Frenchman River Model Works several months before Jim and Anna were married. They now work together to design and produce the high quality kits that you have come to expect from Frenchman River Model Works.
Frenchman River Gospel Jam added 3 new photos — at Crescent Point Wickenheiser Centre. That's a wrap for the 24th Annual Frenchman River Gospel Jam! Diamond Rio did NOT disappoint the crowd by playing a number of classic hits and new material. Thanks again for making Shaunavon and area a part of your August Long Weekend! Frenchman River Gospel Jam added 4 new photos — feeling amazed at Frenchman River Gospel Jam.