Massacre [edit]. A group of eleven stockmen, consisting of assigned convicts and former convicts, ten of them men of European extraction and one African (John Johnstone), led by a squatter, John Fleming from Mungie Bundie Run near Moree, arrived at Henry Dangar 's Myall Creek station on 10 June 1838. The Myall Creek massacre has been claimed to be the first and only time in Australia's history that Europeans were executed for the massacre of Australian Aborigines.
The Myall Creek Massacre took place in June of that year, on Myall Creek Station near the Gwydir River. The Myall Creek Massacre. The escalating conflict between settlers and Aboriginal people on the frontier was one of the issues confronting Governor Gipps on his arrival in the New South Wales colony in 1838. The brutal massacre at Myall Creek of around 30 men, women and children of the Wirrayaraay and Gamilaroi peoples in June 1838, the subsequent court cases and the hanging of the seven settlers for their role in the massacre, was pivotal in the development of the relationship between settlers and Aboriginal people in NSW.
as my interests are far and wide. The Myall Creek massacre in Australia took place on 10 June 1838. On this day, a gang of stockmen, heavily armed, rounded up between 40 and 50 Aboriginal women, children and elderly men at Myall Creek Station, near Bingara which is not far from Inverell in New South Wales. 28 Aborigines were murdered. The Myall Creek massacre was one of Australia's more shameful events in history. On 10 June 1838, a group of armed stockmen rounded up 40 - 50 Aboriginal women, children and e … lderly men at Myall Creek Station, near Bingara in gold-bearing country of northern New South Wales. 28 Aborigines were murdered.
The Myall Creek massacre in Australia took place on 10 June 1838. On this day, a gang of stockmen, heavily armed, rounded up between 40 and 50 Aboriginal women, children and … elderly men at Myall Creek Station, near Bingara which is not far from Inverell in New South Wales. There were trials following the Myall Creek massacre. The first  trial was held on 15 November 1838, and twelve white settlers were  charged with murder, but acquitted.
On June 10, 1838, the infamous Myall Creek Massacre took place at Myall Creek Station where twenty eight Aboriginal men, women and children were massacred and their bodies burned. The ensuing court case marked the first time in Australian history that white men were tried for crimes against Aborigines. A large crowd took part in the annual ceremony at the Myall Creek Memorial on Sunday to observe the annual commemoration of the massacre of 28 Aboriginal children, women and men on June 10, 1838. “We can’t as a nation walk on an international stage if we don’t clean our backyard.” (26-May-14) [ Read more...
The Myall Creek massacre of aboriginal women, children and elderly men took place at Myall Creek Station, near Bingara, which is not far from Inverell in northern New South Wales. There were trials following the Myall Creek massacre. The first  trial was held on 15 November 1838, and twelve white settlers were  charged with murder, but acquitted.
The key people involved in what took place at Myall Creek on 10 th June 1838 and its aftermath are: At Myall Creek Station. George Anderson – from London. Transported for life in 1833 at the age of 19 for robbing his master. Early in 1838 his master Henry Dangar had him flogged (100 lashes) for leaving his post. He was then sent to Myall Creek station where he was the hut keeper, a lower position than a stockman. Had a relationship with a young Aboriginal woman, named Ipeta. He refused to take part in the massacre. He was crucial in the arrest and identification of the perpetrators and was the key witness at the trials.
Large crowd at Myall Creek Memorial (12-Jun-14) [ Read more... ]. A large crowd took part in the annual ceremony at the Myall Creek Memorial on Sunday to observe the annual commemoration of the massacre of 28 Aboriginal children, women and men on June 10, 1838. “We can’t as a nation walk on an international stage if we don’t clean our backyard.” (26-May-14) [ Read more...