Early assessment. It is important to carefully assess for insomnia early in the evaluation of patients with anxiety disorders and to aggressively treat this complicating comorbidity. Insomnia is an underrecognized and undertreated problem. Patients rarely report their symptoms of insomnia spontaneously to their doctor. 1 This is highly relevant because 58% of MDD patients have a lifetime anxiety disorder. 2. The presence of insomnia has a deleterious effect on daytime functioning and negative effects on quality of life, including social and work relationships.
For example, difficulty in falling or staying asleep is a criterion for PTSD, acute stress disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The relationship of insomnia to anxiety disorders is also influenced by comorbid major depression. 1 This is highly relevant because 58% of MDD patients have a lifetime anxiety disorder. 2. The presence of insomnia has a deleterious effect on daytime functioning and negative effects on quality of life, including social and work relationships.
Anxiety is a common and potentially devastating behavioral health problem. While the symptoms are similar in kind to ordinary nervousness, they are much more severe and significantly impede normal functioning. Insomnia is a symptom commonly associated with anxiety, and treating anxiety often improves insomnia. Similarly, treating chronic insomnia can often reduce the severity of anxiety symptoms. They are not appropriate for long-term treatment of anxiety, however, due to the risks of overdose, dependence and abuse, as well as their negative effects on memory, concentration and motor performance.
The Fisher Wallace Stimulator® is cleared by the FDA for the treatment of anxiety. By using the device for 20 minutes, twice a day, most patients are able to reduce or eliminate anxiety within the first week or two, including symptoms associated with Generalized Anxiety Disorder. Similar to how pharmaceutical drugs must be FDA-Approved to enter the market, medical devices must be FDA-Cleared. The Fisher Wallace Stimulator® is FDA-Cleared for the treatment of depression, anxiety and insomnia. It also has a separate FDA clearance to treat pain on the body. The only patients who are not qualified to use the device are those with implanted medical devices, such as a pacemaker or vagus nerve stimulato
The treatment of primary (psychophysiologic) insomnia begins with education about the sleep problem and appropriate sleep hygiene measures (elements of good sleep hygiene are described in Patient Education). Before therapy is instituted, most patients are asked to maintain a sleep diary for 1-2 weeks (see Sleep Diary). CBT for insomnia (CBT-I) is a term for the combination of cognitive therapy and behavioral therapy, such as stimulus-control therapy or sleep-restriction therapy (with or without relaxation therapy). The 2008 AASM guideline recommends including at least one behavioral intervention in initial treatment.
Insomnia treatment: Cognitive behavioral therapy instead of sleeping pills. Insomnia is a serious disorder, and effective treatment can be crucial to getting the sleep you need. Explore safe, effective, nondrug insomnia treatments. Insomnia is a common problem characterized by trouble falling asleep, staying asleep or getting restful sleep, despite the opportunity for adequate sleep. Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, often called CBT-I, is an effective insomnia treatment for chronic sleep problems.
Effective Anxiety Relief. The Fisher Wallace Stimulator® is cleared by the FDA for the treatment of anxiety. By using the device for 20 minutes, twice a day, most patients are able to reduce or eliminate anxiety within the first week or two, including symptoms associated with Generalized Anxiety Disorder. 
The Fisher Wallace Stimulator® is FDA-Cleared for the treatment of insomnia, anxiety and depression. It also has separate FDA clearance to treat pain on the body. The only patients who are not qualified to use the device are those with implanted medical devices, such as a pacemaker or vagus nerve stimulator. Similar to how pharmaceutical drugs must be FDA-Approved to enter the market, medical devices must be FDA-Cleared. The Fisher Wallace Stimulator® is FDA-Cleared for the treatment of depression, anxiety and insomnia. It also has a separate FDA clearance to treat pain on the body.
Pharmacological options. The treatment of insomnia in patients with anxiety disorders is, for the most part, the same as the treatment of insomnia per se: pharmacological, nonpharmacological, or a combination of the two. 