Posted in: Inventory costing methods. Perpetual inventory system provides a running balance of cost of goods available for sale and cost of goods sold. Under this system, no purchases account is maintained because inventory account is directly debited with each purchase of merchandise. 
When the perpetual inventory system is used, there is a continuous or perpetual record of inventory recorded in the inventory account. When a company purchases product, it is immediately recorded as inventory. Perpetual Inventory and the Inventory Count. Though an inventory count should be taken once a year to measure and match inventory records, the perpetual inventory system does not depend on this count to determine cost of goods sold, but is used to verify inventory records.
Definition. System of inventory control in which the number of units of any inventory item (and the total value of inventory) on any day can be obtained from the stock records. Nearby Terms. 1  permit. 2  permit bond. 3  permitted. 4  permutation. 5  perpetual annui... 6  perpetual inven... 7  perpetual inven... 8  perpetual inven... 9  perpetual inven... 10  perpetual succe... 11  perpetuity. 12  persevere. 13  persistence. 14  persistency. 15  persistent, bio... 16  persistent earn... 17  person.
Significance. Choosing between a perpetual and periodic inventory system is an important decision for small business owners, as each type features its own advantages and disadvantages, as well as specific implementation requirements. Both types are best suited to specific situations. 
perpetual inventory. A manual or automated inventory accounting system where inventory is accounted for in a real-time basis with adjustments, delivery, movements, and receiving being updated as they occur. 
Perpetual vs Periodic Inventory System. Perpetual inventory system and periodic inventory systems are the two systems of keeping records of inventory. In perpetual inventory system, merchandise inventory and cost of goods sold are updated continuously on each sale and purchase transaction.
DEFINITION of 'Perpetual Inventory'. A method of accounting for inventory that records the sale or purchase of inventory in near real-time, through the use of computerized point-of-sale and enterprise asset management systems. 