hydrogen comes from the Greeks roots hydro and gennes. hydro means water and gennes means generates.   Answer 2Hydrogen was discovered by Henry Cavendish at 1766 in London … , England. Origin of name: from the Greek words hydro and genes meaning water and generator. Hydrogen is called also Protium as the hydrogen nucleus includes one proton and does not include any neutron. The origin of the word hydrogen is late 18th century, coined in French from Greek hudro 'water' + gen- . Meaning something that generates water.
The word hydrogen comes from the Greek word hydro (meaning water) and genes (meaning creator). Hydrogen gas has the molecular formula H 2. At room temperature and under standard pressure conditions, hydrogen is a gas that is tasteless, odorless and colorless. The chemical symbol of hydrogen is H. It is an element with atomic number 1, this means that 1 proton is found in the nucleus of hydrogen. Hydrogen is the lightest, simplest and most commonly found chemical element in the Universe, making up around 75% of its elemental mass. Hydrogen is found in large amounts in giant gas planets and stars, it plays a key role in powering stars through fusion reaction
Word History of HYDROGEN. When hydrogen is burned it combines with oxygen to make water. That fact accounts for the name of this gas. The word hydrogen was formed from two Greek roots. The first, hydro- , means “ water, ” and the second, -gen, means “ giving rise to, producing. ”. Full Definition of HYDROGEN. : a nonmetallic element that is the simplest and lightest of the elements, is normally a colorless odorless highly flammable diatomic gas, and is used especially in synthesis — see element table — compare deuterium, tritium.
hydrogen comes from the Greeks roots hydro and gennes. hydro means water and gennes means generates. Answer 2 Hydrogen was discovered by Henry Cavendish at 1766 in London, England. Origin of name: from the Greek words  hydro  and genes  meaning  water  and  generator . Hydrogen is called also Protium as the hydrogen nucleus includes one proton and does not include any neutron. The origin of the word hydrogen is late 18th century, coined in French from Greek hudro 'water' + gen-.
Hydrogen is a chemical element with chemical symbol H and atomic number 1. With an atomic weight of 7000100794000000000♠1.00794 u, hydrogen is the lightest element on the periodic table. Its monatomic form (H) is the most abundant chemical substance in the universe, constituting roughly 75% of all baryonic mass. Non-remnant stars are mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state. The most common isotope of hydrogen, termed protium (name rarely used, symbol 1 H), has one proton and no neutrons. The universal emergence of atomic hydrogen first occurred during the recombination epoch. At standard temperature and pressure, hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H 2.
The word hydrogen came from the French hydrogene, hydrogène which itself came from The greek (hyrdos) water -and (genes born, of produced), by meaning producing water … bec ause it creates water when exposed to. oxygen The origin of the word hydrogen is late 18th century, coined in French from Greek hudro 'water' + gen- . Meaning something that generates water.
The word hydrogen comes from the Greek word for water forming.. NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) is the largest user of liquid hydrogen in the world. They are famous for the safe handling of hydrogen. Founded in 1958, NASA is in the USA and has added huge contributions to the history of hydrogen. 