You can now click the Start Recording button and start your screencast. When you’re done, you can click Stop Recording and you’ll find your screencast at the file you selected. Speak into your microphone as you record the screencast and OBS will add your voice to the video file. [Read Article]. The video file OBS creates is an H.264 MP4 file at the resolution of your desktop. If you’d like to edit your screencast and remove any unnecessary bits, use Avidemux to edit the video file. It’s a simple, free, and easy-to-use tool for doing some basic video editing.
For example, you can enable push-to-talk mode with a hotkey for the microphone and configure other microphone settings. You can also record or even stream your desktop with VLC, but you’re probably better off using a dedicated screencasting program like Open Broadcaster Software. [Read Article]. The video file OBS creates is an H.264 MP4 file at the resolution of your desktop. If you’d like to edit your screencast and remove any unnecessary bits, use Avidemux to edit the video file. It’s a simple, free, and easy-to-use tool for doing some basic video editing.
A scene holds the list and order of the sources you add to it. Sources are for example images, a webcam input, window or monitor capture, anything you would want to add to your recording. So you can set up different Scenes that will hold different sources. For example a welcome scene with a picture and some text. My audio device only works in one application at a time not in both (OBS and Skype for example). To disable exclusive mode, right click the speaker icon in the system tray, select Recording Devices then choose your microphone and press Properties. Go to the Advanced tab and uncheck both checkboxes.
Wrice4. Yes I record with OBS, well sometimes. If I am recording gameplay from the xbox360 or ps4 I use the elgato software. If I am recording anything on my PC, or wanting to use overlay, I use OBS. I find the technical support on the site and the program very helpful and easy to use. Wrice4 said: ↑. Yes I record with OBS, well sometimes. If I am recording gameplay from the xbox360 or ps4 I use the elgato software. If I am recording anything on my PC, or wanting to use overlay, I use OBS.
From the Microphone Noise Gate settings you can set thresholds for your mic. Once OBS detects that your mic has hit the threshold level it will automatically start recording your mic onto the video. 
FerretBomb Well-Known Member. Your mic should be set to your mic. Your Desktop Audio Device should either be set to 'Default' (windows default output device, set on the OS level), Stereo Mix/What-U-Hear, or Speakers unless you're doing something weird with it (like using VAC to split your audio). When i use my stereo mix with microphone/aux audio device. My viewers can hear my music and game sounds but my mic doesnt work. when i use my microphone as my input they can hear my voice but cant hear my music or game sounds they can just hear it echoing through my mic.
I used to use OBS to record game console gameplay, but the thing is, with the elgato it makes the audio (webcam face and audio) fall out of sync after a minute or two of recording. This is the case with OBS, Xsplit, etc. The elgato has weird drivers and most people have this problem. Wrice4 said: ↑. Yes I record with OBS, well sometimes. If I am recording gameplay from the xbox360 or ps4 I use the elgato software. If I am recording anything on my PC, or wanting to use overlay, I use OBS. I find the technical support on the site and the program very helpful and easy to use
Example of a problem scenario: - OBS is set to record your USB headset as the playback device, and its mic as the recording device. - WoW is set to send audio to your headset. - The Windows default playback device is your onboard sound instead of your headset. Result: OBS will record your game and mic, but programs like your browser will send audio to your onboard sound because it's the Windows default, and as a result sound from those programs won't get recorded. When i use my stereo mix with microphone/aux audio device. My viewers can hear my music and game sounds but my mic doesnt work. when i use my microphone as my input they can hear my voice but cant hear my music or game sounds they can just hear it echoing through my mic.
A tutorial on how to use OBS to stream and record Minecraft, and other games! Bitrates and resolutions guide in description! Get OBS for free here: http://obsproject.com/. Check out my Minecraft server SauceVille! IP: game.sauceville.net. Forums: http://forum.sauceville.net/. 