Answer. According to the APA Help guide, when citing an article from a database in which no author is listed, use the title of the article as the first entry in the citation. Example: Article: No author. Manna for Motown; Detroit's bankruptcy. (2013, October 5). The Economist, 409, 32(US). Retrieved from Newsstand database
Two or More Works by the Same Author. Use the author's name for all entries and list the entries by the year (earliest comes first). Berndt, T. J. (1981). Berndt, T. J. (1999). When an author appears both as a sole author and, in another citation, as the first author of a group, list the one-author entries first. The following rules for handling works by a single author or multiple authors apply to all APA-style references in your reference list, regardless of the type of work (book, article, electronic resource, etc.).
APA Style gives prominence to the date of a publication. In-text citations use the author's last name and the date, separated by a comma, as a brief reference in the text of the article to refer the reader to complete information in the reference list. 
When there is no author for a web page, the title moves to the first position of the reference entry: Example: All 33 Chile miners freed in flawless rescue. They would also be italicized in the in-text citation, just like a book. These posts on the APA Style blog will also be helpful: 1  How to Cite Something You Found on a Website in APA Style. 2  Missing Pieces: How to Write an APA Style Reference Even Without All the Information.
Following are the key points with respect to citing Web sources: 1  At a minimum, an Internet source reference should include; document title or description, date of publication or retrieval, and an Internet address (i.e. a valid URL, or uniform resource locator). 2  When possible, identify author name(s) as well. APA Citation of Sources On the Internet. Authors using and citing sources on the World Wide Web (i.e. Internet) should observe the following two guidelines: 1  Direct readers as closely as possible to the specific information being cited.
If you are citing a database article that is available in other places, such as a journal or magazine, include the homepage's URL. You may have to do a web search of the article's title, author, etc. to find the URL. For articles that are easily located, do not provide database information. 
1 Place the title in the author position. 2  Alphabetize books with no author or editor by the first significant word in the title (Merriam in this case). 3  In text, use a few words of the title, or the whole title if it is short, in place of an author name in the citation: (Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, 2005). 1 Alphabetize books with no author or editor by the first significant word in the title (Merriam in this case). 2
How to Cite a Website in APA. Use the following template to cite a website using the APA citation format. We also provide style guides for the MLA, Chicago, and Turabian styles. To have your bibliography or works cited list automatically made for you, check out our free APA citation generator. 
Cite in text the first few words of the reference list entry (usually the title) and the year. Use double quotation marks around the title or abbreviated title.: (All 33 Chile Miners, 2010). Note: Use the full title of the web page if it is short for the parenthetical citation. They would also be italicized in the in-text citation, just like a book. These posts on the APA Style blog will also be helpful: 1  How to Cite Something You Found on a Website in APA Style. 2  Missing Pieces: How to Write an APA Style Reference Even Without All the Information.