Many police officers, like any other criminal defendant, can petition the court to expunge a criminal offense if they meet the requirements for expungement. If a criminal record is expunged, it will not be publicly accessible. Police Credibility Problems. A police officer with a criminal record can hamper a criminal prosecution since he or she is vulnerable to impeachment by a criminal defense attorney. Under the rules of evidence, any witness who has been convicted of a crime can be questioned about it.
Law enforcement officers can dig up the expunged records of an individual for the purpose of investigating a criminal case, prosecution or sentencing, only if the person is under suspicion. However, this should be done with the consent and orders of the court of law. Hence, it is very important to get such criminal arrest records expunged. Expunction of criminal arrest records is possible only through orders issued by the court of law. Expunction means termination of criminal records in favor of the accused.
If you’ve successfully expunged, or sealed, your criminal record, in most situations you can answer “No” when asked whether you have a record. But if the defendant has a petty theft conviction on his record, he can be charged with “petty with a prior,” which can elevate the offense to a felony. Clearly, in order to know whether “petty with a prior” is an appropriate charge, a prosecutor needs access to the defendant’s criminal record.
Checking an Officer's Record. Anyone can check to see if police officers have criminal records by contacting the local or county courthouse or by going to the court's database on criminal records. Private companies also have access to criminal records, which they can find for you for a fee. Police Credibility Problems. A police officer with a criminal record can hamper a criminal prosecution since he or she is vulnerable to impeachment by a criminal defense attorney. Under the rules of evidence, any witness who has been convicted of a crime can be questioned about it.
Lying and getting caught is a surefire way not to get hired. For more information on Florida laws regarding who is entitled to a sealed or expunged record, check out the Florida Department of Law Enforcement’s website. For more information on getting a criminal record sealed or expunged in Miami or Broward, contact me. When your record is expunged, it is literally destroyed. The general public will have no idea that you were ever arrested, or even charged. When a record is sealed, the Clerk of Courts is under a court order to not disclose the contents of your file to anyone.
Expungement is the process of going to court to ask a judge to seal a court record. It is important to remember that an expunged record is NOT destroyed. The police, FBI, immigration officers, and other public officials may still see sealed court files for certain purposes. If you were arrested but not charged with a crime, there will not be a court record for that event. The police and the BCA may have records of the arrest, and there is a non-court process to expunge arrest (only) records under Minnesota law.
As a Miami expungement attorney and a Broward expungement attorney, I am often asked who in the public can view a sealed or expunged record. When your record is expunged, it is literally destroyed. The general public will have no idea that you were ever arrested, or even charged. When a record is sealed, the Clerk of Courts is under a court order to not disclose the contents of your file to anyone.
Even though your record was expunged law enforcement still has access to all those records, especially if you are applying to a law enforcement position. Different people tell you different about the expungement  have I been convicted of a crime question so I can't give you the right answer. I did have msidemeanor class three: Employee theft which was expunged but in 2005, I was stopped for a license plate and when the Police ran my record he came back and told me about it.
For adults, arrest and conviction records usually aren’t automatically expunged or sealed after a period of years. You generally have to file a written application in court and follow various rules for expungement. These rules can be found in the laws of the state where the conviction or arrest was made. 
Furthermore, if you are applying for employment with any of these agencies, you MUST disclose your sealed or expunged record. If you are defendant in a criminal prosecution, the prosecuting agency (State Attorney’s Office, U.S. Attorney’s Office) may have access to your sealed or expunged record. When your record is expunged, it is literally destroyed. The general public will have no idea that you were ever arrested, or even charged. When a record is sealed, the Clerk of Courts is under a court order to not disclose the contents of your file to anyone.