A newer device will respond to the negotiation sequence and a more advanced mode can be set. The Centronics parallel interface is an older and still widely-used standard I/O interface for connecting printer s and certain other devices to computers. Data flows in one direction only, from the computer to the printer or other device. In addition to eight parallel data lines, other lines are used to read status information and send control signals. Centronics Corporation designed the original Centronics parallel interface for dot matrix printers.
Female: The Centronics 36-pin connector is arranged in two rows of pins, each with 18 contacts. The connector is held in place by bail locks. The 36-pin connector is often used for parallel applications, especially for printers. It is also referred to as an IEEE-1284 Type B connector. Female: The Centronics 50-pin connector is arranged in two rows of pins each with 25 contacts. This connector is held in place by bail locks. The Centronics 50 connector is most often used by older SCSI-1 devices (scanners, storage devices, etc.).
Nullmodem.Com. Centronics Connectors The 36-pin Centronics connector is commonly used for parallel printer interfaces. The 50-pin connector is often used for external SCSI interfaces. Here's a look at the female 36-pin Centronics connector, as viewed from the pin side (not the solder side). (The female connector is mounted on the printer, the male connector is used for the printer cable.). Here's a look at the male and female 50-pin Centronics connectors, as viewed from the pin side (not the solder side). (The female connector is usually mounted on the device, the male connector on the cable.).
Centronics 36. The Centronics 36-pin connector is arranged in two rows of pins, each with 18 contacts. The connector is held in place by bail locks. The 36-pin connector is often used for parallel applications, especially for printers. It is also referred to as an IEEE-1284 Type B connector. Centronics 50. The Centronics 50-pin connector is arranged in two rows of pins each with 25 contacts. This connector is held in place by bail locks. The Centronics 50 connector is most often used by older SCSI-1 devices (scanners, storage devices, etc.).
Micro Centronics 50. The Micro Centronics 50 connector has 50 pins arranged in two rows one on top of the other. The top row has 25 pins and the lower row has 25 pins. This connector is typically used in proprietary SCSI-2 interface applications. This connector is rare. 
(The female connector is mounted on the printer, the male connector is used for the printer cable.) Here's a look at the male and female 50-pin Centronics connectors, as viewed from the pin side (not the solder side). (The female connector is mounted on the printer, the male connector is used for the printer cable.). Here's a look at the male and female 50-pin Centronics connectors, as viewed from the pin side (not the solder side). (The female connector is usually mounted on the device, the male connector on the cable.).
Early SCSI interfaces commonly used a 50-pin micro ribbon connector. This connector is similar to the 36-pin connector used by Centronics for the parallel interface on their printers, thus the connector became popularly known as Centronics SCSI or CN-50. It is also referred to as a SCSI-1 connector; since many connectors have been used for SCSI-1, this can be confusing.