Undertaking legal action to contest a will or trust is a step most of us will never have to take. However, if you suspect that your loved one's will is not what he or she intended, there are several things that you can do legally to correct the situation.
Undertaking legal action to contest a will or trust is a step most of us will never have to take. However, if you suspect that your loved one's will is not what he or she intended, there are several things that you can do legally to correct the situation.
A no-contest clause doesn’t stop someone from challenging a trust. It only means that if the person does challenge it and fails, he or she will receive nothing under the trust. If your father wasn’t going to receive anything under the trust anyway, a no-contest clause wouldn’t affect him at all.
Trust Contests – Litigation. A trust contest occurs when someone believes that the “trustor” (the deceased person that made the trust) was mentally incapacitated and/or unduly influenced when s/he signed the trust document. A contest petition is filed in court, and requests that the improper trust instructions be stricken.
A Trust,like a Will,can also be contested and declared void if the Grantor created the Trust due to fraud, duress or undue influence.While disputing a Trust is normally more difficult than contesting a Will,every Trust case is different and depends upon the Trust instrument and the parties involved.
If you’re afraid that someone might challenge the validity of your will or trust in court after your death, you may be tempted to add what’s called a “no-contest clause” to your document. These clauses are designed to discourage disgruntled relatives from contesting your will or trust.
A trust contest is a lawsuit to invalidate a trust. Will contests and trust contests are types of probate litigation. A will contest or trust contest can be based on lack of capacity, undue influence, fraud, duress, menace, or mistake.
A will contest or will challenge is a case brought to a probate court in order to test a will's validity. Most will contests are brought on the grounds that the testator, or the person who made the will, did not have the capacity to make a will or was unduly influenced.