Millsaps is one of 40 schools in Loren Pope 's Colleges That Change Lives. Millsaps is among 21 private universities and colleges nationwide named a best buy in the Fiske Guide to Colleges 2013. Millsaps is the only institution in Mississippi to earn the best buy honor from the annual guide. Millsaps College professors are ranked among the best in the nation, according to The Princeton Review 's The Best 377 Colleges - 2013 Edition. The Millsaps faculty won praise in The Princeton Review's special Top 20 category: Professors Get High Marks, where Millsaps was ranked twelfth in the country.
It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 771, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 100 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Millsaps College's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is National Liberal Arts Colleges, 93. Its tuition and fees are $35,510 (2015-16). Applying. When applying to Millsaps College, it's important to note the application deadline is February 1, and the early action deadline is November 15. Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due July 1.
Millsaps has very welcoming staff and students. Along with a beautiful campus, all of Millsaps' students are very focused on getting the best education around. The education obtained from Millsaps College is phenomenal with its diverse Major fields and well-rounded professors. millsaps college can be summed up in one word: pathetic. the school is way overpriced ($42,000 a year), the dorms are horrific, the academics are so-so, and there is absolutely nothing to do on or off campus. it is in one of the worst cities in the us, and the general attitude on campus couldn't be more apathetic.
The college was founded in 1889–90 by a Confederate veteran, Major Reuben Webster Millsaps, through the donation of the college's land and $50,000. Millsaps College professors are ranked among the best in the nation, according to The Princeton Review 's The Best 377 Colleges - 2013 Edition. The Millsaps faculty won praise in The Princeton Review's special Top 20 category: Professors Get High Marks, where Millsaps was ranked twelfth in the country.
Millsaps has a reputation for having a fine business school. It is in the heart of Jackson, Mississippi in a beautiful setting. Millsaps is a liberal-arts college that places a strong emphasis on academics. millsaps college can be summed up in one word: pathetic. the school is way overpriced ($42,000 a year), the dorms are horrific, the academics are so-so, and there is absolutely nothing to do on or off campus. it is in one of the worst cities in the us, and the general attitude on campus couldn't be more apathetic.
Millsaps College is a private liberal arts college located in Jackson, in the U.S. state of Mississippi. Founded in 1890 and affiliated with the United Methodist Church, Millsaps is home to 985 students. Millsaps College professors are ranked among the best in the nation, according to The Princeton Review 's The Best 377 Colleges - 2013 Edition. The Millsaps faculty won praise in The Princeton Review's special Top 20 category: Professors Get High Marks, where Millsaps was ranked twelfth in the country.
Personalized Visit. Experience a day in the life of a Major by scheduling your campus visit today! For more information, please select the date you'd be interested in visiting Millsaps College. You are unable to select dates when our office is closed, and/or not receiving daily visitors due to a campus program. Click here to see other opportunities to visit. 
Student Life. Millsaps College has a total undergraduate enrollment of 771, with a gender distribution of 50.6 percent male students and 49.4 percent female students. At this school, 87 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 13 percent of students live off campus. Applying. When applying to Millsaps College, it's important to note the application deadline is February 1, and the early action deadline is November 15. Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due July 1.
Millsaps is a great small private liberal arts college in the heart of downtown Jackson, MS. The city is full of history and Millsaps College embraces the history and culture of this vibrant capital city. There is always something to do and the community welcomes the students to all events within the city. millsaps college can be summed up in one word: pathetic. the school is way overpriced ($42,000 a year), the dorms are horrific, the academics are so-so, and there is absolutely nothing to do on or off campus. it is in one of the worst cities in the us, and the general attitude on campus couldn't be more apathetic.
Millsaps College Unveils Four-Year Graduation Guarantee. In conjunction with its new Compass Curriculum, Millsaps College has announced an initiative that guarantees graduation in four years, or the College will waive tuition and fees on courses required to complete a bachelor’s degree. Read the press release here. Mississippi Education Leaders Gather on Campus. Nearly 200 leaders from community colleges, public universities, and private colleges and universities gathered on the Millsaps campus October 4-5 for the 2015 conference of the Mississippi Association of Colleges and Universities (MAC).