The world's largest hydroelectric dam is the Three Gorges Dam located on the Yangtze River in China.   Anoth … er famous dam is the Hoover Dam, located on the Colorado River at the boarder of Arizona and Nevada (US Route 93).   Anmother one is Kaptai Dam, Chittagong, Bangladesh. Confidence votes 5.4K. What I've been able to find for the Hoover Dam says ~$50 million in the 1930's, today that's roughly $690 million. The entire Boulder Canyon Project cost around $165 million, which included the Hoover Dam. The Hoover Dam has 17 hydro electric generators, capable of generating 2,074MW, which is quite large
CHINA has many good reasons not to build the $5.2 billion Xiaonanhai dam on the Yangzi river in Chongqing. The site, on a gentle slope that moves water along only slowly, is not ideal for generating hydropower. 
The project involves drilling two holes in the 110-foot high, mile-long dam and running water through two turbines. Missouri River Energy Services, a Sioux Falls, S.D.-based not-for-profit utility that provides power to 61 cities, has the license to build the power plant at an estimated cost of $260 million. Hydroelectricity provides about 7 percent of the nation’s power using about 2,500 dams. But those dams are just a fraction of the 80,000 in the United States. Most were built for flood control, to aid in river navigation or to create recreational areas. So they do not have power plants.
The original cost of the dam in 1940s dollars was $300 million. Between 1967 and 1975 a major addition included the Third Power Plant and Forebay Dam. The cost for this addition was $700 million in 1980s dollars. There are a couple of reasons this particular site was chosen for the dam. First, this is a narrow part of the Columbia River. Second, the bedrock the dam sits on is granite. Granite makes a very good base for a dam as it is very sturdy and doesn’t break apart easily.
The dam is some 1.4 miles (2.3 kilometers) long and 607 feet (185 meters) tallfive times larger than the U.S.'s Hoover Dam. Construction workers used some 21 million cubic yards (16 million cubic meters) of concrete in the structurea world record. Upstream of the dam, the reservoir's water level is presently 456 feet (139 meters) above sea level, and it's expected to rise quickly.
That’s unquestionably true of the gargantuan Inga complex of eight dams intended to span the Congo River — its first two projects have produced huge cost overruns — and Brazil’s purported $14 billion Belo Monte Dam, which will replace a swath of Amazonian rain forest with the world’s third-largest hydroelectric dam. Jacques Leslie is the author, most recently, of “Deep Water: The Epic Struggle Over Dams, Displaced People, and the Environment.”. A version of this op-ed appears in print on August 24, 2014, on page SR5 of the New York edition with the headline: Large Dams Just Aren’t Worth the Cost.
To underline its point, the study singles out the massive Diamer-Bhasha Dam, now under construction in Pakistan across the Indus River. It is projected to cost $12.7 billion (in 2008 dollars) and finish construction by 2021. But the study suggests that it won’t be completed until 2027, by which time it could cost $35 billion (again, in 2008 dollars) — a quarter of Pakistan’s gross domestic product that year. Using the study’s criteria, most of the world’s planned mega-dams would be deemed cost-ineffective. Jacques Leslie is the author, most recently, of “Deep Water: The Epic Struggle Over Dams, Displaced People, and the Environment.”. A version of this op-ed appears in print on August 24, 2014, on page SR5 of the New York edition with the headline: Large Dams Just Aren’t Worth the Cost.
Hoover Dam, once known as Boulder Dam, is a concrete arch-gravity dam in the Black Canyon of the Colorado River, on the border between the U.S. states of Arizona and Nevada. Before the dam could be built, the Colorado River needed to be diverted away from the construction site. To accomplish this, four diversion tunnels were driven through the canyon walls, two on the Nevada side and two on the Arizona side. These tunnels were 56 feet (17 m) in diameter.
The dam is located near Boulder City, Nevada, a municipality originally constructed for workers on the construction project, about 30 mi (48 km) southeast of Las Vegas, Nevada. The dam's generators provide power for public and private utilities in Nevada, Arizona, and California. Before the dam could be built, the Colorado River needed to be diverted away from the construction site. To accomplish this, four diversion tunnels were driven through the canyon walls, two on the Nevada side and two on the Arizona side. These tunnels were 56 feet (17 m) in diameter.