INGREDIENTS 2 beef Petite Tender Roasts (8 to 10 ounces each) 1-1/2 tablespoons Spicy Three-Pepper Rub (recipe follows). Heat oven to 425°F. Press pepper rub evenly onto all surfaces of beef roasts. Place roasts on rack in shallow roasting pan. Do not add water or cover. Roast in 425°F oven 20 to 25 minutes for medium rare; 25 to 30 minutes for medium doneness. Remove from oven when instant-read thermometer inserted into center of thickest part of roast registers 135°F for medium rare or 150°F for medium doneness. Let stand 5-10 minutes before carving.
Put the tenderloins on a rack in a roasting pan, and roast them in a 450°F oven. After about 15 minutes, check the internal temperature with a probe thermometer. For a tenderloin that's medium-rare, look for an internal temperature of 120°F. For medium, the internal temperature should be 125°F. 
Heat oven to 425 degrees F. Season whole Petite Tender with a blend of your choice, and place on a rack in shallow roasting pan. Do not add water or cover. Roast 18 to 25 minutes. Remove when instant-read thermometer registers 135 (medium-rare) 155 degrees (medium-well). Season petite tender with your favorite Tony s blend, or just sea salt and fresh ground pepper. Grill whole Petite Tender over direct medium heat with the lid closed for approximately 14-20 minutes to desired temperature.
Let stand for 15 minutes before slicing. The temperature of the meat will rise during this time (this is reflected in the timings below). Untitled Document Cut Description How to use it Whole tenderloin roast, trimmed This is a long, cylindrical, boneless cut from the loin. Usually about 4 to 6 pounds. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
Instructions. For beef: Coat tenderloin in oil, thyme, salt and pepper. Let marinate, refrigerated, for 1 hour. You can roast or grill the beef. 1  To roast: Preheat oven to 300 degrees. 2  In a saute sauté, pan brown tenderloin on each side to get a golden brown.  crust To roast: Preheat oven to 300 degrees. In a saute sauté, pan brown tenderloin on each side to get a golden brown. Crust place in a roasting pan and cook for approximately 20 minutes or internal temperature reaches 130 degrees for. Rare cook for an additional 5 to 10 minutes for medium to well. Done to: Grill preheat. grill
To roast: Preheat oven to 300 degrees. In a saute sauté, pan brown tenderloin on each side to get a golden brown. Crust place in a roasting pan and cook for approximately 20 minutes or internal temperature reaches 130 degrees for. Rare cook for an additional 5 to 10 minutes for medium to well. done To roast: Preheat oven to 300 degrees. In a saute sauté, pan brown tenderloin on each side to get a golden brown. Crust place in a roasting pan and cook for approximately 20 minutes or internal temperature reaches 130 degrees for. Rare cook for an additional 5 to 10 minutes for medium to well. Done to: Grill preheat. grill
Place meat on grill rack over heat. Cover the grill.) Remove steaks from grill; cover and let stand for 5 minutes. For more tenderloin steak recipes, see: Grilled Steak and Peppers Grilled Beef Fillet with Portobello Relish Beef Tenderloins with Wine Sauce Try filet mignon! Our best filet mignon cooking tips. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
Start with beef tenderloin steaks cut 3/4 inch to 1 inch thick (1 inch for grilling). Trim fat from steaks. Season as desired. Timings below are based on meat removed directly from the refrigerator. The tenderloin is the gold standard of beef cuts. It's tender, versatile, and easier to cook than you might think. Learn how to do it right with our step-by-step guide.
Petite Tender Retail Recipes OVEN-ROASTED SPICY BEEF PETITE ROAST 35 minutes 2 beef shoulder petite tender roasts (8 to 10 oz each) 1-1/2 Tbsp Spicy Three-Pepper Rub (recipe follows) Instructions 1. Heat oven to 425°F. Press pepper rub evenly onto all surfaces of beef roasts. 2. (Beef Shoulder Combine parsley with canola oil. Rub mixture Petite Tender Roast) over filets; season with salt and pepper. Grill (IMPS/NAMP 1114F) 6 pounds 8 oz each over medium heat 11 to 13 minutes for medium Italian flat leaf parsley, rare doneness, turning often.
Preparation. 1. Sprinkle fillets with pepper and salt. 2. Melt butter with olive oil in a large stainless steel or cast-iron skillet over medium heat. Add fillets, and cook 5 to 7 minutes on each side or to desired degree of doneness. Let stand 5 minutes. Southern Living.