Arya does not belong to any caste or category. So anyone is free to add Arya. The Aryans were considered to be a valiant, superior and civilised. Arya means cultured, refin … ed and righteous person. Arya became a popular word when Swami Dayanand Saraswati founded Arya Samaj (superior society) in early 19th century. In brief, earlier they were tr … ansporters, loaders and  carriers in land, rivers and Sea. Sikh Lobanas get in touch with  Nanak and contributed later fifth Guru of Sikhism. In Maharaja  Ranjit Singh's Sikh empire, slowly turn into agriculturists under  Mahraja Ranjit Singh and mostly converted from Hindu to Sikhi.
Nirmala is a founder member of Pranava School in Hyderabad and was a member of the National Commission for Women from 2003-05. It was during her stint at NCW that she came in contact with Sushma Swaraj who sounded Nirmala out for a role in BJP. While Nirmala leaned towards the BJP, her husband was from a pro-Congress family. Her mother-in-law was a Congress MLA in Andhra Pradesh, while her father-in-law was a Minister in the Andhra Pradesh Congress Govt in 1970s.
Most of followers are Sikhs, also include Hindus and very  less Muslims. In brief, earlier they were tr … ansporters, loaders and  carriers in land, rivers and Sea. Sikh Lobanas get in touch with  Nanak and contributed later fifth Guru of Sikhism. In Maharaja  Ranjit Singh's Sikh empire, slowly turn into agriculturists under  Mahraja Ranjit Singh and mostly converted from Hindu to Sikhi.
Pandey (Devanagari: पाण्डेय) or Pande (पाण्डे pāṇḍe) is a surname of the Hindu Brahmins communities of Northern and Central India as well as of both Brahmin and Chhetri families of Nepal. In Maharashtra, several Brahmin families have names ending in -pande, such as  Deshpande  or Sardeshpande. This page or section lists people with the surname Pandey. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
The surname Pandey is similar to the surname Pande (पाण्डे pāṇḍe), which is used in Gujarat and North India. But in Nepal 'Pandey' is taken differently than 'Pande'. Pandey is used as their surname by pure Brahmans whereas Pande by Chhetriyas. In Maharashtra, several Brahmin families have names ending in -pande, such as  Deshpande .In Orissa the Brahmins use the surname Panda पण्डI. This page or section lists people with the surname Pandey. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
She met her husband, Parakala Prabhakar, an Andhraite from Narsapuram, Andhra Pradesh while studying in the Jawaharlal Nehru University. While Nirmala leaned towards the BJP, her husband was from a pro-Congress family. Her mother-in-law was a Congress MLA in Andhra Pradesh, while her father-in-law was a Minister in the Andhra Pradesh Congress Govt in 1970s.
Those Brahmin families who specialized in all 4 Vedas came to be known as Chaturvedi (chaturth means 4 in Sanskrit from which it is derived), those who specialized in 3 Vedas came to be known as Trivedi or Tiwari or Tripathi (tri-meaning 3 in Sanskrit), while Dwivedi specialized in 2 Vedas (dwi-meaning 2). This page or section lists people with the surname Pandey. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
On May 26, Nirmala Sitharaman was sworn in as Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Ministry of Commerce & Industry, as well as a Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs which fall under the Ministry of Finance headed by Arun Jaitley. While Nirmala leaned towards the BJP, her husband was from a pro-Congress family. Her mother-in-law was a Congress MLA in Andhra Pradesh, while her father-in-law was a Minister in the Andhra Pradesh Congress Govt in 1970s.
She attained B.A degree from Seethalakshmi Ramaswamy College, Tiruchirappalli and MA degree in economics from Jawaharlal Nehru University in 1980 followed by Ph.D in Indo-European textile trade within the GATT framework, and then served at Pricewaterhouse Coopers as a Senior Manager and later for BBC World Service. While Nirmala leaned towards the BJP, her husband was from a pro-Congress family. Her mother-in-law was a Congress MLA in Andhra Pradesh, while her father-in-law was a Minister in the Andhra Pradesh Congress Govt in 1970s.