Goodwill donations can only get you a deduction on your taxes if you itemize them. When you file your taxes, you can choose to either take a standard deduction, which is based on your age, marital status, and income, or an itemized deduction, which takes all of your deductible activity into account. If you take the standard deduction, you can skip all the record keeping and just donate your goods. Note that this is not the same as the basic 1040 form. 1  You cannot donate more than 50 percent of your adjusted gross income in a year and claim it on your tax return. 2  If you have donated more than 50 percent, it can be carried over to the next year's tax return, however.
Taxes and Your Donations. When you drop off your donations at Goodwill, you’ll receive a receipt from a donation attendant. Hang on to this receipt – at the end of the year, you can claim a tax deduction for clothing and household items that are in good condition. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service requires you to value your donation when filing your return.
IRS Guidelines. If you itemize deductions on your federal tax return, you may be entitled to claim a charitable deduction for your Goodwill donations. According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a taxpayer can deduct the fair market value of clothing, household goods, used furniture, shoes, books and so forth
You can only deduct as a charitable donation the difference between the amount you paid and the value of the goods or services you received. So if you “donate” $100 to NPR and get a $20 Car Talk mug, only $80 of your donation is deductible. Most large organizations will break this out for you on your receipt. 
Documenting Goodwill Donations. If you donate less than $250 of goods and it's not practical to get a receipt, the IRS doesn't require a formal record from Goodwill before you can claim the deduction. But, you do need to keep your own records of what you gave.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: When you donate to any Non-Profit Organization such as Goodwill or to the Salvation Army, you cannot put a specific dollar amount for each item, ie: Old Navy Jeans, $15.00/ea. on the receipt you filled out. Report Abuse. Most charitable donations, including donations to Goodwill, can be deducted up to 50% of your AGI. Beyond that, you carry over the excess to future years. Keep written records of your donations. Any donation of $250 or more requires a written acknowledgement from the charity.
The $250 limit applies to the amount of each contribution. For example, if you donate $100 every week to your temple using a chack, you can prove the deduction with canceled checks. However, if you make just one $300 cash donation, you can't claim the donation as a deduction without a receipt.
Tax Reporting. When you file your taxes, you must use Form 1040 rather than Form 1040A or Form 1040EZ if you want credit for your Goodwill donations. The actual deduction goes on Schedule A, which lists all your itemized deductions. However, you don't have to include any of your receipts or other records with your tax return. If you donate less than $250 of goods and it's not practical to get a receipt, the IRS doesn't require a formal record from Goodwill before you can claim the deduction. But, you do need to keep your own records of what you gave.
In most cases, donations to Goodwill are tax deductible as a charitable donation at their fair market value. Only you can determine the fair market value of your donation. Goodwill will furnish a written acknowledgement for you at the time of your donation. 