At about 3 weeks of age, the puppies will begin to imitate the bitch eating and drinking. A secure shallow water dish should now be available at least part of the day. At 3½ weeks of age, the puppies can start receiving puppy mush. The puppies crawl well by 7-14 days, walk at 16 days, and have a normal gait at 21 days. They need to be on footing that offers traction. By 4 weeks of age, the puppies follow each other and carry toys in their mouths. They will play-fight with each other and learn how to inhibit their bites.
If the puppies are not gaining weight, they need more food. If the puppies develop diarrhea, they may be overfed. Weigh each puppy at the same time a minimum of once a day for the first 10 days. Then 3-4 times a week for another 10 days. Failure of weight gain is often the first sign of illness in young animals. 
Your puppy should be gaining approximately 10 to 15 percent of his birth weight each day, according to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. If your pup isn't gaining any weight or is losing weight, something could be wrong. Feeding. Young nursing puppies need to be fed every two to three hours, day and night. During each 24-hour period, your little one should be receiving 8cc or approximately 1/4 ounce of canine milk replacement formula per ounce of body weight.
As a 'rule of thumb', newborn puppies should double their birth weight within the first 7 to 10 days. From then until the pup is about 6 weeks old you can expect to see something in the range of 5 - 10% weight gain per day. 
During the first two weeks of life, before their eyes open, puppies should feed and sleep for at least 90% of the time. If you are weighing the puppies regularly (once a day), there should be a consistent increase in weight. If any of the puppies appear restless or noisy, this may indicate a lack of nourishment or infection. Weight loss in a puppy is a cause for concern. Therefore, keep careful records of your newborn puppies' weights
The average birth weight for puppies depends on breed. During the first weeks of life, a pup’s body weight may double or even triple. Gaining 10 to 15% of birth weight daily is considered healthy. This can be made available several times a day. Gradually, the amount of milk replacer can be decreased until the puppies are eating dry kibble by about 7 to 8 weeks of age. Consult your veterinarian for the exact amount to feed and for help creating a long-term feeding schedule suited to the puppies’ development needs.
Boxer Newborn Puppy Care. Overview. If you have had a litter of Boxer puppies at your home and you are in charge of taking care of a newborn Boxer puppy, much attention must be taken during the first 8 weeks. From the moment of birth until the pups are at least 2 months old, a person must be close by and ready for any situation. The weight of the puppy should still be checked, this can be done every other day now. Normal weight varies very much but should fall in the range of 2 lbs. (.9 kilograms) to 4 lbs. (1.81 kilograms).
Their basic needs are food and warmth. Golden Retriever puppies generally weigh between 14 and 16 ozs. at birth. Puppies will gain weight daily, and all breeds of newborn pups double their birth weight within 10 to 14 days. Newborn puppies can be handled from birth, but if this upsets the momma, then try to keep it to a minimum for the first couple of days. 
Report Abuse. Go buy a scale and weigh the puppies every day. Some lose up to 10% of their birth weight during the first day or two, but after 48 hours a positive weight gain should be seen every day. Loss of weight or failure to gain is the first sign that something is not right with the puppy or the mother's milk.
The rectal temperature of newborn puppies is about 97°F and rises each week until about 4 weeks of age when it is a normal adult temperature of 100.5-102.5°F. Health of the bitch. Each mammary gland and nipple should be checked at least once a day for redness, hardness, discharge, or streaking color. The puppies crawl well by 7-14 days, walk at 16 days, and have a normal gait at 21 days. They need to be on footing that offers traction. By 4 weeks of age, the puppies follow each other and carry toys in their mouths. They will play-fight with each other and learn how to inhibit their bites.