So that s why women in general have cellulite, but if you personally suffer from it, then what might be the reason for this? One reason is most likely that you are overweight and that this causes the skin to stretch tightly over the fat cells thus increasing their chances of pushing through. Cellulite is something that many women dread and see as the sure-fire sign that they are overweight to an unpleasant degree. This is something that can be very embarrassing for a lot of women and that is generally considered unattractive.
Also, the structure of a woman’s connective tissue is different than a man’s, and men’s is better equipped to hold fat in than women’s. Genetics also plays a big factor--if your family members experience cellulite, it’s likely you will too. 
A. Unfortunately, you don't need a lot of body fat to have cellulite. Even the thinnest women have some layer of fat between their muscles and skin, and everybody has the bands that the fat can push through. A. Estrogen plays a role, plus women typically have more body fat than men. But the main reason is that the bands connecting skin and muscle are different on men than they are on women.
Being overweight does make the appearance of cellulite more noticeable; the more fat you have underneath your skin, the more it's likely to put stress on your connective tissue and bulge out of its weak spots. Hormones also seem to play a role in the appearance of cellulite: As women age, their bodies produce less estrogen—a hormone that helps keep blood vessels flowing smoothly. Less estrogen can mean poorer circulation, which can also mean a decrease in new collagen production and the breakdown of older connective tissue.
By Jacky. Men and women are using cellulite cream to reduce the in their bodies and giving a much healthy looking body. With the natural ingredients found in the cellulite cream, cellulite cream is the safes and easy way to eliminate excess body fat that is cellulites in the body. 
Report Abuse. Men don't get it because their fat structure it different to women. Our fat structure makes it so that tiny pockets form, hence, we have cellulite. Also, they have more muscle mass, and women have more fat deposits because our bodies are constantly preparing for a baby. Lola · 9 years ago. 
Women tend to get cellulite around knees, saddlebags and buttocks, because they have three layers of fat in these areas [instead of just one]. Women also have three levels of fat in the stomach and in the triceps areas. Too much estrogen makes fat cells larger, so…younger women who are overweight might have a condition called estrogen dominance, which means they are making too much estrogen and/or are eating foods [such as soy or using containers that leak bisphenol-A] that have estrogen-mimicking ingredients.
Estrogen also makes fat whereas testosterone breaks down fat. So a women's body is basically—and I hate to say it—genetically designed to be a place for cellulite to develop. Men have one layer of fat throughout their entire body and a one-to-one alpha-and beta-receptor ratio. Too much estrogen makes fat cells larger, so…younger women who are overweight might have a condition called estrogen dominance, which means they are making too much estrogen and/or are eating foods [such as soy or using containers that leak bisphenol-A] that have estrogen-mimicking ingredients.
What Causes Cellulite. Having cellulite doesn't mean you are overweight. Even thin people can have it. If you are overweight, however, losing weight may reduce cellulite. Cellulite is more common among women than men. If other women in your family have cellulite, there's a good chance you will too. Other factors that influence how much cellulite you have and how visible it is include: 1  Poor diet. 2  Fad dieting. 3  Slow metabolism. 4  Lack of physical activity. 5  Hormone changes. 