VeriFace is a face-recognition software package that is a registered trademark of Lenovo and was the first Face Verification Technology on public computer. In lieu of passwords, VeriFace identifies users by matching unique features of individual faces to photographs taken by the 1.3-megapixel webcam. 1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program VeriFace, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program).
How to remove Lenovo VeriFace Pro from Windows 7. 1  Click on the start button and go to the control panel. 2  Click on the appearance and personalization. 3  Click on the folder options. 4  Click on the view tab in the folder options window. How to remove Lenovo VeriFace Pro. How to remove Lenovo VeriFace Pro from Windows XP. 1  Click the start menu, select run to stop the program processes. 2  Go to the control panel. 3  Locate the add/remove programs icon to remove the program.
1 When you find the program Lenovo VeriFace, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 4  Follow the prompts. 1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program Lenovo VeriFace, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 5
Or, you can uninstall VeriFace from your computer by using the Add/Remove Program feature in the Window's Control Panel. 1  On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall a Program. 1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program VeriFace, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program).
If your Lenovo.Veriface.dll error is related to a specific program, reinstalling Lenovo-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button. 2  Click Control Panel on the right side menu. 3  Click Programs. How to re-register Lenovo.Veriface.dll from an elevated command prompt (Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10): 1  Click the Start button. 2  Type  command  in the search box... 3  DO NOT hit ENTER yet! 4  While holding CTRL-Shift on your keyboard, hit ENTER. 5  You will be prompted with a permission dialog box.
Lenovo VeriFace Pro is a software program developed by Lenovo. Upon being installed, the software adds a Windows Service which is designed to run continuously in the background. How to remove Lenovo VeriFace Pro. How to remove Lenovo VeriFace Pro from Windows XP. 1  Click the start menu, select run to stop the program processes. 2  Go to the control panel. 3  Locate the add/remove programs icon to remove the program.
Lenovo.Veriface.dll is a type of DLL file associated with Lenovo developed by Veriface Sdk for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Lenovo.Veriface.dll is 1.0.0.0, which was produced for Windows. How to re-register Lenovo.Veriface.dll from an elevated command prompt (Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10): 1  Click the Start button. 2  Type  command  in the search box... 3  DO NOT hit ENTER yet! 4  While holding CTRL-Shift on your keyboard, hit ENTER. 5  You will be prompted with a permission dialog box.
1 When you find the program VeriFace, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 4  Follow the prompts. 1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program VeriFace, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4
If the Lenovo.Veriface.dll file is not in the DLL Cache, or the DLL Cache is corrupted, you will be prompted to insert the Windows installation disc to recover the original files. To run System File Checker (Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10): 1  Click the Start button. How to re-register Lenovo.Veriface.dll from an elevated command prompt (Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10): 1  Click the Start button. 2  Type  command  in the search box... 3  DO NOT hit ENTER yet! 4  While holding CTRL-Shift on your keyboard, hit ENTER. 5  You will be prompted with a permission dialog box.
Overview. Lenovo VeriFace is a software program developed by Lenovo. The most common release is 5.0.13.5261, with over 98% of all installations currently using this version. Upon being installed, the software adds a Windows Service which is designed to run continuously in the background. 1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program Lenovo VeriFace, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 5  Follow the prompts.