If you’re unfamiliar with the term, cremains are what’s left of a body following cremation. According to the Cremation Association of North America, the cremation rate in the United States rose from 15 percent in 1985 to 27 percent in 2001. 
Simply put, cremation takes longer because it cannot be undone. A body that is buried can be exhumed, should any question arise, however cremation is truly final. Because of this, many states including Texas, legally stipulate how long a crematory must wait before cremation occurs. They also have very specific regulations regarding what must occur before a cremation can occur. 
A cremation can cost anything from $450 through to $4,000, this all depends on exactly how extravagant the funeral service is and whereabouts you are located. In many of the states where the cremation rate is higher, prices are more competitively priced and a basic cremation can be purchased for around $700 - $900. In Florida and Nevada the prices for a direct cremation can be as low as $450. The charge for the cremation permit is often added to the general price for a cremation, as is the fee for the death certificate. The cost for a cremation permit varies depending on the issuing county, but is usually between $10-$40.
As a result, actual cremation times vary from 60 minutes to more than 5 hours. In the cremation profession, it is widely stated that it takes about 2 hours to cremate an average body of 150 pounds in a cardboard cremation container. Q: How long does it take to cremate a body? A: On the surface, this is a simple question, but answering it requires an understanding of the factors that influence cremation time.
In Florida, it can take several days to complete the cremation process. Cremation is irreversible. Therefore there are several safe-guards in place to insure that a cremation is not performed prematurely. • Florida law requires a mandatory 48 hour waiting period from the time of death as a minimum waiting period. It depends on the size of the individual and the type of cremation container or casket. Typically, the process takes 2 to 3 hours at a normal operating temperature of 1600 to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit.
As a body is completely reduced to just ashes in the cremation process, there are quite strict laws governing the cremation of a body. There are licensing and operational requirements for crematories, and state laws governing who can authorize a cremation and how long after a death a cremation can be performed. The charge for the cremation permit is often added to the general price for a cremation, as is the fee for the death certificate. The cost for a cremation permit varies depending on the issuing county, but is usually between $10-$40.
The factors that affect cremation time are the size of the body (weight), the percentage of body fat to lean tissue or muscle, the type of container or casket, the performance standards of the cremation equipment, and whether it is the first cremation of the day, the second, the third and so on. Q: How long does it take to cremate a body? A: On the surface, this is a simple question, but answering it requires an understanding of the factors that influence cremation time.
The time required for cremation varies from body to body, and, in modern furnaces, the process may be as fast as one hour per 50 kg (100 lb) of body weight. The American Humane Society’s cost for cremation of 22.5 kg (50 lb). or less pet is $110 while 23 kg (51 lb). or more is $145. The cremated remains are available for the owner to pick up in seven to ten business days.
When cremation follows soon after death, embalming is not necessary. Each state has its own regulations in this matter, but generally the rule is that a deceased human body that is not buried or cremated within 24 to 48 hours is to be embalmed or refrigerated. However, simple embalming and the use of a cremation casket need not involve excessive costs.