Hugo is of Germanic origin, and it is used largely in the English, Dutch, French, German, Latin, Latinized, Portuguese, Scandinavian, and Spanish languages. The form developed as a Latinized alternate form of Hugh in the mid -19th century. Hugo is fairly popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 1940s. At the modest height of its usage in 2005, 0.037% of baby boys were given the name Hugo. Its ranking then was #371.
Derived from Hugo.. Other origins for the name Hugo include-English, German, Spanish, German.The name Hugo is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Variant of Hugh: Heart. Mind. Inspiration. Intelligent.
What does Hugo mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Hugo is of Latin origin. The meaning of Hugo is bright mind. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is heart, mind, or spirit. Hugo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Hu-go. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 438 in baby name popularity for boys with 689 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Hugo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Hu-go. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 438 in baby name popularity for boys with 689 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name.
Hugo is a surname and male given name of Germanic origin Hugo, meaning Bright in Mind and Spirit or intelligence. The English version of the name is Hugh, the Italian version is Ugo. For detailed history and etymology of the name, see Hugh (given name) . Hugo is one of the most popular given names in Europe, ranking as high as #9 in Spain, and #8 in Belgium in 2006.
Spanish Meaning: The name Hugo is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Hugo is: Intelligent. Swedish Meaning: The name Hugo is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Hugo is: Intelligent. Teutonic Meaning: The name Hugo is a Teutonic baby name. Derived from Hugo. German Meaning: The name Hugo is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Hugo is: a thinker.' See also Keegan. Latin Meaning: The name Hugo is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Hugo is: a thinker.' See also Keegan.
Meaning of Hugo. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Hugo means-Intelligent.. Other origins for the name Hugo include-Spanish, German, German, English.The name Hugo is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-Intelligent.