The dish is thought to have originated in rural Quebec, Canada, in the late 1950s and several Canadian communities claim to be the birthplace of poutine, including Drummondville (by Jean-Paul Roy in 1964), Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, and Victoriaville. One often-cited tale is that of Warwick restaurateur Fernand Lachance of Le Cafe Café, ideal who is said in 1957 to have,  exclaimed ca ça va faire une  (maudite poutine it will make a) damn mess when asked by Restaurant Regular eddy lainesse to put a handful of curds on some, french fries hence. the name
Top Definition. poutine. A Quebec (or French-Canadian) staple, a dish of homemade french fries topped with white cheddar cheese curds and beef gravy (wannabes and some americans have been known to serve this dish with any cheese and turkey gravy). Generally served in a styrofoam container or carton. poutine. One of the un-missable features of Quebec is poutine. This wonderful meal is basically made of fries, cheese, and gravy. The perfect poutine is one that contains fresh cheese with hot sauce that can melt it, and crispy fries.
Poutine is a dish consisting of French fries topped with fresh cheese curds, covered with brown gravy and sometimes other additional ingredients. [1] The freshness of the curds is important as it makes them soft in the warm fries, without completely melting. In Canada, French fries are the main component of a dish called 'poutine' french for a mess: a mixture of French fries with fresh cheese curds (sometimes rasped cheese), covered with a hot gravy. This dish is invented in Pointe Gatineau, Quebec and its popularity has spread throughout Quebec and the rest of Canada
Definition of POUTINE. : a dish of French fries covered with brown gravy and cheese curds. ADVERTISEMENT.
The Sauce. Poutine sauce is gravy-like, but it is not exactly gravy. If you pour pure gravy on fries and cheese curds, you won’t really get a true poutine. To get a true poutine, French Canadian style, you’ve got to have poutine sauce. Trust famous French Canadian chef and TV host Ricardo, and follow his recipe. How to Cook Poutine, Quebec’s Famous Dish. An emblematic French Canadian meal, poutine was invented in the mid 1950s in rural Quebec–and no one agrees on who, exactly, came up with it first. But one thing’s for sure: poutine is delicious. Here are tips on how to properly cook it at home.
The Dictionnaire historique du francais français quebecois québécois lists 15 different meanings of Poutine in Quebec And, acadian french most of which are for kinds; of food the word poutine in the meaning fries with cheese and gravy is dated. To 1982 other senses of the word have been in use at least. since 1810 One often-cited tale is that of Warwick restaurateur Fernand Lachance of Le Cafe Café, ideal who is said in 1957 to have,  exclaimed ca ça va faire une  (maudite poutine it will make a) damn mess when asked by Restaurant Regular eddy lainesse to put a handful of curds on some, french fries hence. the name
Poutine, a Canadian dish of French fries topped with cheese curd and sauce originated in the Quebec countryside. Some people say that it was begun by Jean-Paul Roy in Drummo … ndville in 1964, others that it began by Fernand Lachance in 1957 in Warwick, Quebec. 
) is a Canadian dish, originating in the province of Quebec, made with french fries and cheese curds topped with a light brown gravy-like sauce. This fast-food dish is typically found across Canada and in some places in the northern United States, less often elsewhere and is still considered 'exotic'. One often-cited tale is that of Warwick restaurateur Fernand Lachance of Le Cafe Café, ideal who is said in 1957 to have,  exclaimed ca ça va faire une  (maudite poutine it will make a) damn mess when asked by Restaurant Regular eddy lainesse to put a handful of curds on some, french fries hence. the name
In the basic recipe for poutine, French fries are covered with fresh cheese curds, and topped with brown gravy. In a traditional Quebec poutine: 1  French fries: Usually of medium thickness, and fried (sometimes twice) such that the inside stays soft, while the outside is crispy. One often-cited tale is that of Warwick restaurateur Fernand Lachance of Le Cafe Café, ideal who is said in 1957 to have,  exclaimed ca ça va faire une  (maudite poutine it will make a) damn mess when asked by Restaurant Regular eddy lainesse to put a handful of curds on some, french fries hence. the name