We are contracted with a pretty good allowance for a travertine backsplash. We have a friend with a travertine backsplash and it's tumbled so it has roughed up edges and holes in the surface. Their house was built about 5 years ago. Issue is that I'm not crazy about the tumbled/roughed up look though DH likes it. I do like the shades that travertine comes in but not this rough look.
Eclectic Kitchen & First Floor Remodel. 506 Saves | 2 Questions. The tumbled travertine tile backsplash behind the kitchen’s wine bar has an oil-rubbed-bronze trim for an elegant and rustic look. The back inside wall of the antique glass-front upper cabinets mimics the beadboard seen on the back of the island base. The tile floor is a tumbled travertine in a custom layout, the countertops are a light emprador marble, the kitchen island is taupe.
Ceramic and travertine are both strong backsplash materials, but each has some weaknesses. Because travertine is a natural stone tile, the minerals within it are reactive with acid solutions, such as orange juice and vinegar. While you can seal the stone to protect it from stains, sealers may not repel everything. Ceramic tiles offer more options than travertine in terms of color, with tiles available in almost any color you can imagine. Some tiles are also stamped with pictures and patterns. If you are replacing an old backsplash, it may be easier to match the existing decor using ceramic tiles than travertine. However, ceramic offers fewer options in terms of finish. Typically ceramic tiles are only available in two finishes: matte or gloss
Travertine tile backsplash ideas. There are many unique travertine backsplash ideas that you can use to achieve great results in your kitchen. Tiles are the most commonly used and these different in texture, size, and finishes. You can therefore choose the best options for you to help bring your dreams into reality. This is a elegant travertine tile installation. 3×6 subway travertine tile. Beige brown color mixed. Visit Product Page ” Subway Travertine Backsplash Tile“. When it comes to home remodeling, a few changes can help breathe a new life into the entire building giving it much needed renewal and value.
Please help....we need to make a decision quickly on our kitchen backsplash (in the next day or two). We are contracted with a pretty good allowance for a travertine backsplash. We have a friend with a travertine backsplash and it's tumbled so it has roughed up edges and holes in the surface. Their house was built about 5 years ago. Issue is that I'm not crazy about the tumbled/roughed up look though DH likes it. I do like the shades that travertine comes in but not this rough look. On the wall with the cooktop, we did do a full granite backsplash which is awesome and highly recommend!! the tumbled travertine is on the sink wall. we did seal it twice and it did not change the color at all.
Travertine is a form of limestone, making it a porous and semi-soft material for a backsplash. This is not a problem, but it will require a coat or two of sealant to help keep mold and mildew at bay. Travertine tiles are available in a wide variety of cream, red, gray, white and brown colors. 
Eclectic Kitchen & First Floor Remodel. 508 Saves | 2 Questions. The tumbled travertine tile backsplash behind the kitchen’s wine bar has an oil-rubbed-bronze trim for an elegant and rustic look. The back inside wall of the antique glass-front upper cabinets mimics the beadboard seen on the back of the island base. 
Tumbled travertine is a very unique tile that you should consider. Like tumbled marble, the tiles have an aged finish that is developed through the tumbling process, giving it antiqued edges, fissures, and pits naturally. You can use these tiles in a bucolic kitchen design, farmhouse kitchen, or Tuscan kitchen. This is a elegant travertine tile installation. 3×6 subway travertine tile. Beige brown color mixed. Visit Product Page ” Subway Travertine Backsplash Tile“. When it comes to home remodeling, a few changes can help breathe a new life into the entire building giving it much needed renewal and value.
Travertine tiles have a rough and rugged appearance. Travertine is a type of earthy, natural stone that is imported from countries such as Italy and Mexico. It comes in tumbled for an old world, Tuscan feel,or polished for a more sophisticated look. Due to its porosity, it must be sealed annually to protect it or it will absorb stains, ruining the look of the til