Broccoli is an edible green plant in the cabbage family whose large flowerhead is eaten as a vegetable. The word broccoli comes from the Italian plural of broccolo, which means the flowering crest of a cabbage , and is the diminutive form of brocco, meaning small nail or sprout. 
A green substance in plants called chlorophyll traps the energy from the Sun needed to make food. Chlorophyll is mostly found in leaves, inside plastids, which are inside the leaf cells. The leaf can be thought of as a food factory. Leaves of plants vary in shape and size, but they are always the plant organ best suited to capture solar energy. Once the food is made in the leaf, it is transported to the other parts of the plant such as stems and roots. 
Plant Parts-Roots. Basic parts of most all plants are roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruits, and seeds. The roots help provide support by anchoring the plant and absorbing water and nutrients needed for growth. 
Photosynthesis: A process by which a plant produces its food using energy from sunlight, carbon dioxide from the air, and water and nutrients from the soil. Pollination: The movement of pollen from one plant to another. Pollination is necessary for seeds to form in flowering plants. Vegetables are other plant parts. Stems do many things. They support the plant. They act like the plant's plumbing system, conducting water and nutrients from the roots and food in the form of glucose from the leaves to other plant parts. Stems can be herbaceous like the bendable stem of a daisy or woody like the trunk of an oak tree.
2,209 pages on this wiki. Welcome to the Plants vs. Zombies Wiki A wiki and encyclopedia based on the Plants vs. Zombies series, a tower defense video game series developed and published by PopCap Games, first released on May 5, 2009. Started on May 12, 2009. For a complete list of plants, click here. For a complete gallery of plants, click here. Zombies. For a complete list of zombies, click here. For a complete gallery of zombies, click here. Notice board. 1  If you wish to edit, create a Wikia account here or log in with an existing one.
A flower is a part of a plant. Flowers are also called the bloom or blossom of a plant. The flower grows on a stalk – a thin node – which supports it. Flowers have petals. Inside the part of the flower that has petals are the parts which produce pollen and seeds. Flowers are the reproductive structure of flowering plants, which are plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called the Angiosperms. In many plants, a flower is its most colourful part
Lost City is the eighth world in Plants vs. Zombies 2. Its official trailer was released on May 22, 2015. The world appears to be set in early Mesoamerica, but the zombies come from a more modern era of exploration. 
Flowers: These are the reproductive parts of a plant. Flower petals and the flowers smell attract insects and bees to pollinate the flower. After pollination, the petals fall off and seeds develop in the part of a flower called the ovary. The ovary itself usually becomes what we call the fruit. Stems: These support the upper parts of plants. Each part of a plant has a very important function. All plants produce flowers for the same reason: to make seeds so another plant can grow. Leaves: These are the parts of the plant where food is made by photosynthesis. Leaves take in carbon dioxide from the air, water. from the soil, and energy from the sunlight
The Vegetable lamb of Tartary (Latin: Agnus scythicus or Planta Tartarica Barometz) is a legendary zoophyte of Central Asia, once believed to grow sheep as its fruit. The sheep were connected to the plant by an umbilical cord and grazed the land around the plant. There is mention of a similar plant-animal in Jewish folklore as early as AD 436. This creature, called the Yeduah, was like a lamb in form and sprouted from the earth connected to a stem. Those who went hunting the Yeduah could only harvest the creature by severing it from its stem with arrows or darts.