Most (but not all) sponges are asymmetrical and have no definite shape. Sponges, like all animals, are eukaryotic-meaning their cells have a nucleus. Porifera in Latin means pore-bearer and refers to the many pores or openings in these animals. Because of these pores, a sponge can soak up and release water. At one time, real sponges were used for cleaning and bathing. 
Porifera: The Cells. Sponges have a cellular grade of organization. They do not possess any structures that can be considered organs. For instance, sponges do not have stomachs or kidneys. Instead, sponge cells of various types are responsible for bodily functions, the day-to-day activities that sustain life. Many of the most common types of cells are illustrated below in a cartoon view of the wall of a porifera
Although they may look plant-like, sponges are the simplest of multi-cellular animals. A sponge is a bottom-dwelling creature which attaches itself to something solid in a place where it can, hopefully, receive enough food to grow. The scientific term for sponges is Porifera which literally means pore-bearing.. 
Sponges are animals of the phylum Porifera (/pɒˈrɪfərə/ ; meaning pore bearer). They are multicellular organisms that have bodies full of pores and channels allowing water to circulate through them, consisting of jelly-like mesohyl sandwiched between two thin layers of cells. Although adult sponges are fundamentally sessile animals, some marine and freshwater species can move across the sea bed at speeds of 1–4 mm (0.039–0.157 in) per day, as a result of amoeba-like movements of pinacocytes and other cells.
The calcarious sponges are the only group of sponges to have spicules that are made of calcium carbonate. Calcarious sponges are often smaller than other sponges. The body of a sponge is like a sac that is perforated with lots of small openings or pores. The body wall consists of three layers: They do not have organs and their cells are not organized into well-defined tissues. There are three subgroups of sponges. The glass sponges have a skeleton that consists of fragile, glass-like spicules that are made of silica. The demosponges are often vibrantly colored and can grow to be the largest of all sponges.
Sponges are similar to other animals in that they are multicellular, heterotrophic, lack cell walls and produce sperm cells. Unlike other animals, they lack true tissues and organs, and have no body symmetry. Although adult sponges are fundamentally sessile animals, some marine and freshwater species can move across the sea bed at speeds of 1–4 mm (0.039–0.157 in) per day, as a result of amoeba-like movements of pinacocytes and other cells.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the collar cells hellp to classify the sponge as an animal to see if the sponge is a consumer or a producer. Therefore, the sponge is an animal so it is a consumer. hope i helped!!(:
Unlike the cells of most other animals, the cells of sponges do not form into various organs like kidney, liver, or nerves. Sponge cells are totipotent (Dawkins 2004). The totipotent cells could give rise to reproductive cells or other types of cells of the organism. Porifera means pore-bearing. Sponges are covered with tiny pores on the outside called ostia (2). Ostia lead to an internal system of canals which leads to one or more larger holes called oscula, which are the openings to the out side. Ostia are surrounded by donut shaped cells called porocytes.
The Porifera (sponges) differ from other animals in that they do not exhibit true tissue development but rather have a cellular level of organisation. They are simple in body form, having a sac-like body which is perforated by many pores, yet complex at the cellular level having several types of cells. 