Yes, it did. Muscat is the capital of Oman which is located by the Indian Ocean in the Arabian Peninsula. Oman has a mountain, about 3000 meters above the sea level. It is cal … led The Green Mountain. Inhabitants of this mountain have been, for hundreds of years, growing a white small aromatic grapes
Like Muscat of Hamburg, Muscat Ottonel is a relatively recent addition to the Muscat family, being bred in the Loire Valley wine region of France in the 1850s. The grape is a cross of the Swiss wine grape Chasselas and Muscat d'Eisenstadt (also known as Muscat de Saumur). The first documented mention of grape called muscat was in the works of the English Franciscan scholar Bartholomeus Anglicus who wrote of wine made from Muscat grapes in his work De proprietatibus rerum written between 1230-1240 while Anglicus was studying in what is now modern Saxony in Germany.
Muscat Muscat, with its strong and distinctive perfume, was probably one of the first grape varieties to be identified and cultivated, probably in Greece. Each muscat produces, with subtle variation, wines with the distinct, intense, aromatic, rosy-sweet, and easily-recognized scent of muscat and, unusual for most wine varieties, that actually taste like grapes.1 The muscat family has two main branches, one based on Muscat Blanc, one on Muscat Alexandria. Of over twenty identified distinct varieties of the muscat grape, the most desirable for wine due to its powerful aromatic intensity is Muscat Blanc, known as Muscat de Frontignan in France and Moscato di Canelli in Italy. 2
All Varietals // Muscat. Muscat. One of the more versatile white wine grapes, Muscat is grown around the world for use in use in light and dry wines, low-alcohol sparkling wines, and sweet, late-harvest wines. 
The Muscat grape is one of the oldest domesticated grapes in the world. For centuries, people have valued this grape enough to keep it in existence and use it to make a variety of interesting and appealing wines. Wine produced from the Muscat grape is characterized by smelling and tasting of the grape itself. Historically the grape has been used to make rich, luscious dessert wines in varying degrees of sweetness and fortification.
Sparkling Moscato d’Asti. Made with Muscat Blanc. This style is most commonly found in Italy and it’s called Moscato d’Asti. This sweet frizzante bubbly wine is noted for its high aromatics and light alcohol level (close to 5-6% ABV). This style is produced primarily with white Muscat Blanc grapes. Still Moscato. Muscat Blanc or Moscatel. This wine is typically white in color and uses either Muscat Blanc or Zibibbo grape. This style is less common, however some of these examples are made to be completely dry reaching alcohol levels of close to 12% ABV.
Muscat of Alexandria is another Muscat variety commonly used in the production of French vin doux naturel, but it is also found in Spain, where it is used to make many of the fortified Spanish Moscatels. The first documented mention of grape called muscat was in the works of the English Franciscan scholar Bartholomeus Anglicus who wrote of wine made from Muscat grapes in his work De proprietatibus rerum written between 1230-1240 while Anglicus was studying in what is now modern Saxony in Germany.
Muscat (Arabic: مسقط, Masqaṭ) is the capital of Oman. It is also the seat of government and largest city in the Governorate of Muscat. According to the National Centre for Statistics and Information (NCSI), the total population of Muscat Governorate reached 1.28 million as of May 2015. Muttrah, with the Muscat Harbour, Corniche, and Mina Qaboos is located in the north-eastern coastline of the city, adjacent to the Gulf of Oman. Other coastal districts of Muscat include Darsait, Mina Al Fahal, Ras Al Hamar, Al Qurum Heights, Al Khuwair and Al Seeb.