During the incubation season, I candle the eggs once a week to check for fertility. If an egg shows no signs of development after 10 days of incubation, it should be removed from the incubator so that it doesn't spoil and possibly contaminate other eggs in the incubator. I leave the fertile eggs in the incubator until the 26th day of incubation. These problems should be fixed before eggs are set in the incubator. I have found through the years that the humidity level in the incubator plays the biggest role in successful artificial incubation of peafowl eggs. I maintain the humidity level at 60%.
The incubation period for peafowl eggs is 28-30 days. Incubation Temperature. The temperature in the incubator for peafowl eggs is 99.5 degrees fahrenheit. Humidity Levels. The humidity level (wet bulb thermometer) for peafowl eggs is 83-88 degrees fahrenheit.
The incubation period  for bluebird eggs is 12-14 days, but incubation may not start until  a week after the first egg is laid, in which case the period can  extend to 19 days. . 9 people found this useful. Rin Tsukiyori. 4,837 Contributions. I am a Youtaite on YouTube and a supervisor here on WikiAnswer. 
The one-week incubated peafowl eggs were then placed in the incubator for the remainder of the incubation period. By using this method, when we had 100 fertile eggs for one week 90 to 95 chicks would hatch. This was an increase of 10 to 25 chicks per week from the previous year-end of season hatching. Metal laying nest was placed along the walls for a place for the cochin hens to lay and eventually start to set. No eggs were picked up from these hens so that they would brood quicker. This was within 3 to 4 weeks, by this time there were 49 hens setting. The cochin chicken eggs were removed and replaced them with 6 fresh peafowl eggs per hen. The bantam eggs were then candled and put in the incubator for the remainder of the incubation period
The humidity level in the incubator plays the biggest role in successful artificial incubation of peacock eggs. It is recommended that you maintain the humidity level at 60%. This converts to a wet bulb temperature of 86 - 87 degrees F. Incubation Temperature. The temperature should be measured in many locations to insure that the proper temperature is kept throughout the incubator. The thermostat should be set so that a temperature of 99 -100 degrees F is consistent throughout.
The relative humidity of the incubator should be set at 60 percent initially. It has to be increased to 90 percent during the last days of the incubation period. Excessive or low humidity can cause damage to the peacock eggs. The date should be marked on the egg itself with a pencil or crayon before it is set in the incubator. Once in a week or ten days the eggs should be candled with a bright light to make sure that the incubation process is progressing properly. Peacock eggs are normally laid during April on alternate days. Peacock eggs can be hatched either naturally or artificially. The natural method is not commercially viable as the peahen will be able to hatch only a limited number of eggs. The artificial method of incubation normally takes about 28 days. Proper temperature, humidity and ventilation are essential for ensuring that the peacock eggs hatch properly. The peacock eggs should be kept at room temperature before they are placed in the incubator
Incubation of the Fertile Peafowl Eggs: Artificial incubation using a mechanical incubator is the method of incubation chosen most often by backyard poultry breeders. The fertile peafowl eggs should be incubated at 100 degrees F for 27-30 days. 
Incubating Peacock eggs typically takes 28-29 days, with turning ending on the 26th day. The temperature should be measured in many locations to insure that the proper temperature is kept throughout the incubator. The thermostat should be set so that a temperature of 99 -100 degrees F is consistent throughout. Incubation Temperature