The substance has been known by many names, but the word turquoise, which dates to the 17th century, is derived from the French turques for Turks, because the mineral was first brought to Europe from Turkey, from mines in the historical Khorasan Province of Persia. The lustre of turquoise is typically waxy to subvitreous, and transparency is usually opaque, but may be semitranslucent in thin sections. Colour is as variable as the mineral's other properties, ranging from white to a powder blue to a sky blue, and from a blue-green to a yellowish green.
Turquoise is a stone that has been prized for many years. The ancient Egyptians used turquoise in jewelry. Turquoise is greenish-blue or pale sky blue. The name means Turkish stone as it came to Europe by way of Turkey. Turquoise was mined more than 6,000 years ago in Sinai. The best turquoise comes from Iran, but not much is exported now. Much turquoise comes from Mexico and the United States toda
Mexican turquoise: Synonym of American turquoise.. Persian turquoise: Exceptional, light blue turquoise from the region now known as Iran. More recently, Persian turquoise is being used as a quality grade, regardless of the origin of the stone. Rock turquoise: Rock which includes turquoise and and other minerals. Turquoise nuggets: Pebbles that have been polished in a tumbler. 
Turquoise is an opaque, blue-to-green mineral that is a hydrated phosphate of copper and aluminium, with the chemical formula Cu Al 6 (PO 4) 4 (OH) 8 ·4 H 2O. The lustre of turquoise is typically waxy to subvitreous, and transparency is usually opaque, but may be semitranslucent in thin sections. Colour is as variable as the mineral's other properties, ranging from white to a powder blue to a sky blue, and from a blue-green to a yellowish green.
It forms in veins, which later then turn into a clump of turquoise. Turquoise deposits are found in Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, California, Nevada, Virginia, and Utah. The turquoise mineral is considered one of the highest value minerals in the world by most collectors. American turquoise is valued by its matrix pattern, color, hardness, and by origin. Facts About Turquoise. Turquoise is a blue to gray-green mineral consisting of copper aluminum phosphate. The mineral is a hyrous phosphate of aluminum, which includes a small percent of copper. The copper is what gives the mineral its blue coloring.
It is rare and valuable in finer grades and has been prized as a gem and ornamental stone for thousands of years owing to its unique hue. In recent times, turquoise, like most other opaque gems, has been devalued by the introduction of treatments, imitations, and synthetics onto the market. The lustre of turquoise is typically waxy to subvitreous, and transparency is usually opaque, but may be semitranslucent in thin sections. Colour is as variable as the mineral's other properties, ranging from white to a powder blue to a sky blue, and from a blue-green to a yellowish green.
- Greenish-blue mixture of Chrysocolla, Turquoise and other copper minerals such as Malachite from the copper mines near Eilat in Israel. Kingman Turquoise. - Turquoise from the Mineral Park Mine near Kingman, Arizona, known for its good color. It is sometimes intergrown together with other secondary copper materials, especially Chrysocolla. Turquoise may also form as a pseudomorph of other minerals such as Apatite, Beryl, and feldspar s. For additional information, see the gemstone section o
Only three other minerals-gold, silver and copper have a color that is used in common language more than turquoise. Blue minerals are rare and that is why turquoise captures attention in the gemstone market. The most desirable color of turquoise is a sky blue or robin's egg blue. Some people inappropriately describe the color as Persian blue after the famous high quality material mined in the area that is now known as Iraq. 
Turquoise, the robin's egg blue gemstone worn by Pharaohs and Aztec Kings, is probably one of the oldest gemstones known. Yet, only its prized blue color, a color so distinctive that its name is used to describe any color that resembles it, results in its being used as a gemstone. 