Selective breeding is caused by humans, we created selective breeding by finding out that if we mate two lions one with white lion gene (and white fur) and one with out the ge … ne (with normal fur)there is a good chance that a white lion may be born but also a good chance a normal lion may be born. Often the results can cause mild to severe problems.For example ;breeding for the flat face of the pekingese can cause breathing problems and jaw and teeth deformities.
Cross-breeding is a type of selective breeding except with  animals from two organisms from the same species but not the same  breed. Selective breeding is one of the most common causes for a  wide range of breeds in animals and varieties in plants. Often the results can cause mild to severe problems.For example ;breeding for the flat face of the pekingese can cause breathing problems and jaw and teeth deformities.
Confidence votes 21. Selective breeding has been a way of enhancing preferable genetic qualities in mainly dogs, cats and horses. Often the results can cause mild to severe problems.For example ;breeding for the flat face of the pekingese can cause breathing problems and jaw and teeth deformities.
Biotechnology can be good for animals. Selective breeding and genetic engineering can benefit animals in many ways: 1  Improving resistance to disease. 2  Breeding to remove characteristics that cause injury. 3  eg selecting cattle without horns. Biotechnology can be good or bad for animals-and it may also produce an answer to the ethical problems of experimenting on animals. Transgenic animals raise a particularly difficult problem.
Biotechnology isn't something new-selective breeding to create more useful varieties of animals and plants is a form of biotechnology that human beings have used for thousands of years. Biotechnology includes any use of science or technology to alter the characteristics of a particular breed or animal. Biotechnology can be good or bad for animals-and it may also produce an answer to the ethical problems of experimenting on animals. Transgenic animals raise a particularly difficult problem.
Other health problems among purebreds are the product of both inbreeding and bad genetic luck. The genes responsible for many genetic diseases are “recessive,” which means that two copies of a damaged gene, one from the mother and one from the father, must be present in an individual for the disease to occur. Selective breeding of the disproportionately short legs of breeds such as the Basset Hound and the Dachshund has led to bowed legs and chronic problems with elbow dislocation; the short legs and long back of Dachshunds causes them to suffer more often from ruptured vertebral disks.
Regulating genetic engineering. Profitability is one of the major drivers of both selective breeding and genetic engineering. If animal welfare is not to be compromised, research must be restricted by a counter-balancing ethical principle that prevents altering animals in a way that was bad for the animal. Biotechnology can be good or bad for animals-and it may also produce an answer to the ethical problems of experimenting on animals. Transgenic animals raise a particularly difficult problem.
In the same way that inbreeding among human populations can increase the frequency of normally rare genes that cause diseases, the selective breeding that created the hundreds of modern dog breeds has put purebred dogs at risk for a large number of health problems, affecting both body and behavior. Selective breeding of the disproportionately short legs of breeds such as the Basset Hound and the Dachshund has led to bowed legs and chronic problems with elbow dislocation; the short legs and long back of Dachshunds causes them to suffer more often from ruptured vertebral disks.
The avoidance of such deleterious recessive alleles caused by inbreeding, via inbreeding avoidance mechanisms, is the main selective reason for outcrossing. Crossbreeding between populations also often has positive effects on fitness-related traits. Inbreeding is a technique used in selective breeding. Many individuals in the first generation of inbreeding will never live to reproduce. Over time, with isolation, such as a population bottleneck caused by purposeful (assortative) breeding or natural environmental factors, the deleterious inherited traits are culled.
Inbreeding is used to reveal deleterious recessive alleles, which can then be eliminated through assortative breeding or through culling. In plant breeding, inbred lines are used as stocks for the creation of hybrid lines to make use of the effects of heterosis. Many individuals in the first generation of inbreeding will never live to reproduce. Over time, with isolation, such as a population bottleneck caused by purposeful (assortative) breeding or natural environmental factors, the deleterious inherited traits are culled.