Considered one of the Char Dhams (the others being Yamunotri, Badrinath, and Kedarnath), Gangotri is said to be the mythological source of the Ganga river, and the spot, where Bhagirath worshipped Lord Shiva and mother Ganga descended on earth. Lord Shiva is said to have received the river in his matted locks at. Gangotri is located at an altitude of 3048 mts in the Himalayas of Uttarakhand, India. Gangotri is situated in the northern part of Uttarkashi District and very close the Indo-Tibetan border. It is approximately 300 km from Dehradun, 250 km from Rishikesh and 105 km from Uttarkashi
Gangotri Glacier (Sanskrit, Nepali and Hindi: गंगोत्री) is located in Uttarkashi District, Uttarakhand, India in a region bordering China. This glacier, one of the primary sources of the Ganges, is one of the largest in the Himalayas with an estimated volume of over 27 cubic kilometers. Gomukh is situated near the base of Shivling; in between lies the Tapovan meadow. The Gangotri glacier is a traditional Hindu pilgrimage site. Devout Hindus consider bathing in the icy waters near Gangotri town to be a holy ritual, and many made the trek to Gomukh, with a few continuing on to Tapovan.
Gangotri is situated at an altitude of 3,048mts above sea level in the Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand state. Located on the banks of the holy Bhagirathi River, Gangotri is one of the Char Dham of Uttarakhand. It is the highest and the most important temple of river Ganga which is worshipped as a Goddess in India. Gangotri is a small town centred around the temple of Ganga. 
Gangotri, the origin of the River Ganges and seat of the goddess Ganga, is one of the four sites in the Chota Char Dham pilgrimage circuit. The original Gangotri Temple was built by the Gurkha general Amar Singh Thapa. As of 2001 India census, Gangotri had a population of 606. Males constitute 60% of the population and females 40%. Gangotri has an average literacy rate of 89%, male literacy is 91%, female literacy is 80%.
Gangotri-Gaumukh Tapovan trek is a popular trek in Uttarakhand state of India. Located at the base of the Gangotri glacier, Gaumukh also known as Cow's snout is a source of holy river Ganga. On the other hand, Tapovan is located above the Gangotri glacier. This trek will pass traveller through glaciers. 
Gangotri. One of the four sites amongst the holiest places, Char Dham in India, is Gangotri. This sacred city is located in the northern part of the state of Uttarakhand. It is known as the source of River Ganges and also the seat of Goddess Ganga. 
The terminus of the Gangotri Glacier is said to resemble a cow 's mouth, and the place is called Gomukh or Gaumukh (gou, cow + mukh, face). Gomukh, which is about 19 km (11.8 mi) from the town of Gangotri, is the precise source of the Bhagirathi river, an important tributary of the Ganges. Gomukh is situated near the base of Shivling; in between lies the Tapovan meadow. The Gangotri glacier is a traditional Hindu pilgrimage site. Devout Hindus consider bathing in the icy waters near Gangotri town to be a holy ritual, and many made the trek to Gomukh, with a few continuing on to Tapovan.
Gangotri, the origin of River Ganga and the seat of goddess Ganga, is situated in Uttarakhand, it is 300 km from Dehradun and very close to the Indo-Tibetan border. The Gangotri Temple was built by a Gorkha commander in the 18th century. Apart from its religious significance, Gangotri is also a miracle of nature. River Ganga originates from the Gangotri glacier and is known as Bhagirathi till it merges with Alaknanda at Devaprayag. From Devprayag, it is known as Ganga
Gangotri (Hindi: गंगोत्री) is a town and a Nagar Panchayat (municipality) in Uttarkashi district in the state of Uttarakhand, India. It is a Hindu pilgrim town on the banks of the river Bhagirathi and origin of River Ganges. It is on the Greater Himalayan Range, at a height of 3,100 metres (10,200 ft). As of 2001 India census, Gangotri had a population of 606. Males constitute 60% of the population and females 40%. Gangotri has an average literacy rate of 89%, male literacy is 91%, female literacy is 80%.