First, enzymes attach to a cap of chemically modified guanine nucleotides to the starting end of the mRNA molecule. Then, other enzymes replace part of the opposite end with a … tail of 100-200 adenine nucleotides. This addition is called a poly-A-tail. mRNA is not converted to tRNA, but the process of aligning amino acids by tRNA from instructions held by mRNA is translation. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
1 mRNA transcribes the genetic code from DNA into a form that can be read and used to make proteins. 2  mRNA carries genetic information from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of a cell. 3  rRNA or Ribosomal RNA. 4  rRNA is located in the cytoplasm of a cell, where ribosomes are found. Answer: There are actually several types of ribonucleic acid or RNA, but most RNA falls into one of three categories: 1  mRNA or Messenger RNA. 2  mRNA transcribes the genetic code from DNA into a form that can be read and used to make proteins. 3
Report Abuse. mRNA acts as a messenger to tell the cells how to function. DNA is divided in the nucleus into mRNA, then sent out of the nucleus through the nuclear membrane and goes off to ribosomes to create different proteins and control activities within the cell. :). Source(s): Just finished Biology. ΘHabeas Corpusθ · 8 years ago.
It is often useful to distinguish the two strands of DNA -- the strand that is copied into mRNA and subsequently translated has the complementary sequence to the mRNA, while the base sequence of the opposite strand directly corresponds to the codons in the mRNA. It may be useful to consider a real gene as well. The DNA sequence of the phage P22 arc gene and some important regulatory sites is shown below. The upper strand of DNA is the mRNA-like strand. The lower strand is the strand that is complementary to the mRNA. The -35 region (TTGACA) and -10 region (TATATT) of the promoter sequence and the transcriptional start site (the A) is indicated on the coding strand
1 rRNA is located in the cytoplasm of a cell, where ribosomes are found. 2  rRNA directs the translation of mRNA into proteins. 3  tRNA or Transfer RNA. 4  Like rRNA, tRNA is located in the cellular cytoplasm and is involved in protein synthesis. Answer: There are actually several types of ribonucleic acid or RNA, but most RNA falls into one of three categories: 1  mRNA or Messenger RNA. 2  mRNA transcribes the genetic code from DNA into a form that can be read and used to make proteins. 3  mRNA carries genetic information from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of a cell.
1 mRNA (messenger RNA) - It's the only type of RNA that carries protein-building information. 2  tRNA (transfer RNA) - Type of RNA that delivers amino acids to ribosomes during translation in the order specified by the mRNA. 3  rRNA (ribosomal RNA) - A type of RNA that becomes part of ribosomes. mRNA is not converted to tRNA, but the process of aligning amino acids by tRNA from instructions held by mRNA is translation. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
1 mRNA carries genetic information from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of a cell. 2  rRNA or Ribosomal RNA. 3  rRNA is located in the cytoplasm of a cell, where ribosomes are found. 4  rRNA directs the translation of mRNA into proteins. Answer: There are actually several types of ribonucleic acid or RNA, but most RNA falls into one of three categories: 1  mRNA or Messenger RNA. 2  mRNA transcribes the genetic code from DNA into a form that can be read and used to make proteins. 3 
Answer: There are actually several types of ribonucleic acid or RNA, but most RNA falls into one of three categories: 1  mRNA or Messenger RNA. 2  mRNA transcribes the genetic code from DNA into a form that can be read and used to make proteins. 3  rRNA or Ribosomal RNA. 4  rRNA is located in the cytoplasm of a cell, where ribosomes are found. 5  tRNA or 6  .... Lik Answer: There are actually several types of ribonucleic acid or RNA, but most RNA falls into one of three categories: 1  mRNA or Messenger RNA. 2  mRNA transcribes the genetic code from DNA into a form that can be read and used to make proteins. 3  mRNA carries genetic information from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of a cell.
1 tRNA (transfer RNA) - Type of RNA that delivers amino acids to ribosomes during translation in the order specified by the mRNA. 2  rRNA (ribosomal RNA) - A type of RNA that becomes part of ribosomes. mRNA is not converted to tRNA, but the process of aligning amino acids by tRNA from instructions held by mRNA is translation. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.