1. The house on Mango Street is different because the Corderos own it rather than rent it. They don’t have to share it with anybody or answer to a landlord. 2. They had to leave the flat on Loomis because the water pipes broke and the landlord refused to fix them. 3. Esperanza expected the house on Mango Street to be a house with plenty of room, “real stairs,” at least three bathrooms, and a huge yard. 4. 1. Esperanza likes Marin because Marin “is older and knows lots of things.”. 2. Marin is saving her money because the boy she is engaged to in Puerto Rico hasn’t gotten a job yet. 3. Marin thinks she may meet a man on the subway who will marry her and take her far away.
The House on Mango Street deals with the theme of friendship as Esperanza struggles to form connections with her peers and thinks about what her relationships mean. Esperanza experiences a wide variety of friendships over the course of the novel that seem to increase in intensity and meaning. 
Book Summary. Esperanza believed her life would be wonderful forever. She would always live on her family's ranch in Mexico. She would always have fancy dresses and a beautiful home filled with servants. Esperanza anticipates a fiesta on her birthday, beginning with a serenade from her father and the men on the ranch, followed by many beautiful gifts (pp. 9-10). Instead, her father does not return from the field and later his body is found (p. 22) and she learns he has been killed by bandits (p. 24). 2.
Nun: a nun from Esperanza’s school. The House on Mango Street. Esperanza and her family have just moved to a house on Mango Street. They have lived on a number of different streets in the past, and Esperanza names as many of them as she can remember. What she remembers most, however, is moving around a lot. This is the first house the Corderos own....
Summary: “The House on Mango Street”. Esperanza describes how her family came to live at the house on Mango Street. She, her parents, her brothers, Carlos and Kiki, and her sister, Nenny, moved to Mango Street when the pipes broke in their previous apartment and the landlord refused to fix them. Before they moved into the house on Mango Street, the family moved around a lot.
Summary: “Hairs”. Esperanza describes the different types of hair of all the members of her family. Her own hair doesn’t do what she wants it to do, while her sister’s is smooth and oily. Her mother’s hair is beautiful and smells like bread. Esperanza likes to sleep near her mother so she can smell it. She, her parents, her brothers, Carlos and Kiki, and her sister, Nenny, moved to Mango Street when the pipes broke in their previous apartment and the landlord refused to fix them. Before they moved into the house on Mango Street, the family moved around a lot.
is the protagonist of the novel; a young girl of about eleven years old. Esperanza does not want to belong to her impoverished neighborhood and dreams of one day owning a home of her own, different from her families ramshackle dwelling on Mango Street. Esperanza's mother, is a selfless caretaker, as evidenced by the comfort Esperanza seeks by her side and the way she will try to facilitate her children's whims, such as the new dress she buys Esperanza for a baptism and the way she indulges her daughter's wishes to not remain at school for lunch.
The House on Mango Street is comprised of 44 short character sketches, or stories, called vignettes. They are narrated by Esperanza, who just moved with her family to Mango Street, in the barrio. Esperanza hates their house on Mango Street because it is not a “real” house, like the ones she’s seen on TV. Esperanza, whose name means “hope,” soon meets Lucy and Rachel, who she likes because they, too, are poor. Esperanza and her family have just moved to a house on Mango Street. They have lived on a number of different streets in the past, and Esperanza names as many of them as she can remember. What she remembers most, however, is moving around a lot. This is the first house the Corderos own....
Well, Esperanza grew up in luxury, while Marta had to work her way through her entire life. Esperanza is a Spanish-speaking immigrant, while Marta was born in the U.S. and speaks fluent English. Bottom line: Marta makes Esperanza feel really out of place. Despite Marta's mean streak, Esperanza eventually comes to have some sympathy for this brave and stubborn young lady. But this is a very unpopular message at Esperanza's camp, where the workers just want to keep their heads down and hang onto their jobs. They tell Marta to chill: That is a chance we cannot take. We just want to work. That's why we came here.
Esperanza Rising by Pam Munoz Muñoz Ryan i t is, 1930 And esperanza is watching the workers on her’father s huge, Ranch El rancho de Las, rosas harvest the. Grapes esperanza’doesn t realize, it but before long, she, too will be working as hard as the. campesinos 