1 Copper sulfate pentahydrate crystals contain water, so if you want to store your finished crystal, keep it in a sealed container. 2  Otherwise water will evaporate from the crystals, leaving them dull and powdery. Pour a little of the saturated copper sulfate solution into a saucer or shallow dish. Allow it to sit in an undisturbed location for several hours or overnight. Select the best crystal as your 'seed' for growing a large crystal. Scrape the crystal off of the container and tie it to a length of nylon fishing line.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Copper sulfate crystals are among the most beautiful crystals you can grow, but you might not have access to a chemistry lab or want to order the copper sulfate from a chemical supply company. That's okay, because you can make copper sulfate yourself using readily-available materials. If you would prefer to have copper sulfate crystals, you can grow them directly from the blue solution that you prepared. Just allow the solution to evaporate. Again, use care in recovering your crystals because the solution is very acidic.
Copper (II) sulfate, also known as cupric sulfate or copper sulphate, is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Cu SO4. Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate can easily be produced by crystallization from solution as copper(II) sulfate is quite hygroscopic. In an illustration of a single metal replacement reaction, iron is submerged in a solution of copper sulfate.
Copper sulfate crystals are among the easiest and most beautiful crystals that you can grow. The brilliant blue crystals can be grown relatively quickly and can become quite large. Here's how you can grow copper sulfate crystals yourself. Stir copper sulfate into very hot water until no more will dissolve. Pour a little of the saturated copper sulfate solution into a saucer or shallow dish. Allow it to sit in an undisturbed location for several hours or overnight. Select the best crystal as your 'seed' for growing a large crystal. Scrape the crystal off of the container and tie it to a length of nylon fishing line.
The elements in copper sulphate are copper, sulphur and oxygen. Copper sulphate is a compound, made up of three elements. The symbol for this compound is CuS04. 
Commercial copper sulfate is usually about 98% pure copper sulfate, and may contain traces of water. Anhydrous Copper sulfate is 39.81 percent copper and 60.19 percent sulfate by mass, and in its blue, hydrous form, it is 25.47% copper, 38.47% sulfate (12.82% sulfur) and 36.06% water by mass. Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate can easily be produced by crystallization from solution as copper(II) sulfate is quite hygroscopic. In an illustration of a single metal replacement reaction, iron is submerged in a solution of copper sulfate.
Copper Sulphate is a widely used chemical compound comprised of Copper, Sulphur and Oxygen whose formula is CuSO4. Crystals of Copper Sulphate are often bright blue and the substance was known once as Blue Vitriol or Bluestone. Copper sulfate was used in the past as an emetic, (An agent that induces vomiting). 1 Copper sulfate crystals is still used today dissolved in water in a foot bath for sheep to pass through as a prevention and cure for foot rot.
The triclinic shape of copper sulfate can be seen in this cluster of crystals. Copper sulfate crystals are somewhat strange. Some crystals can hold their color for years with no change, while others dehydrate and turn into a white powder. This crystal of copper sulfate is nearly twenty years old. One of the very best chemicals for growing crystals is copper sulfate. The only trouble with it is that is a poisonous chemical compound. Because of its poisonous nature, it has been used to kill tree roots in sewers. A solution of copper sulfate is simply flushed down the toilet to kill tree roots.
The elements in copper sulphate are copper, sulphur and oxygen. Copper sulphate is a compound, made up of three elements. 1 How to Make a Copper Sulfate Solution Copper sulfate is a reagent used in many applications. 2  It is used in aquariums to kill algae. 3  It is also used as a solution for copper plating. 4  Distilled water is used as a s…. 5  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
Copper (II) sulfate exothermically dissolves in water to give the aquo complex [Cu(H 2 O) 6 ] 2+ , which has octahedral molecular geometry and is paramagnetic. Other names for copper(II) sulfate are blue vitriol and bluestone. Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate can easily be produced by crystallization from solution as copper(II) sulfate is quite hygroscopic. In an illustration of a single metal replacement reaction, iron is submerged in a solution of copper sulfate.