Introduction. When Gustave Eiffel’s company built Paris’ most recognizable monument for the 1889 World’s Fair, many regarded the massive iron structure with skepticism.
yes there is Actually there are two restaurants on the Eiffel Tower: On the first floor, 58 Tour Eiffel, chic lunch during the day, and nice brasserie with soft lounge m … usic at night. On the second floor, Le Jules verne, a top-notch Michelin-starred restaurant. See more at parisbestrestaurants.com Regards.
Built in commemoration of the French Revolution, the Eiffel Tower is one of the world's premier tourist attractions. It has been compared to the Great Pyramid of Giza and St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. Nothing remotely like it has ever been constructed.
1 Below, the city of Paris opens up to you. 2  A visit to the tower is one of the best international travel exper…. 3  Making Online Dinner Reservations at the Eiffel Tower Dining in the Eiffel Tower is an important experience for Paris locals and tourists.
As any other landmark in the world, Eiffel Tower was built for a purpose. It was supposed to serve as the entrance arch for Exposition Universelle or The World Exhibition in 1889. The Exhibition itself is an event held as celebration of the 100th anniversary of French Revolution in 1789.
The Eiffel Tower is not just a monument to aerodynamics and aesthetics, it is a model of organization and management. Completed in just two years, two months and five days, the project finished ahead of schedule. Slated to open on May 6, 1889, the Eiffel Tower was ready on March 30 of that year.
1 Popular Travel Sites With Tourist Information on the Eiffel Tower Paris' Eiffel Tower, built in 1889 for a World's Fair, is one of the most well-known landmarks in the world, with millions of tourists ascending the tower every year.
The Eiffel tower is called 'la Tour Eiffel' in French. The complete  name is pronounced 'lah toor eh-fehl'. It was built by Gustave  Eiffel between 1887 to 1889.
Once the tallest structure in the world, the Eiffel Tower is probably Europe's best known landmark and Paris's most famous symbol. You couldn't possibly visit Paris without seeing the Eiffel Tower. Even if you do not want to visit this world famous structure, you will see its top from all over Paris.
In 1889, Paris hosted an Exposition Universelle (World’s Fair) to mark the 100-year anniversary of the French Revolution. More than 100 artists submitted competing plans for a monument to be built on the Champ-de-Mars, located in central Paris, and serve as the exposition’s entrance.