Arizona is a Right to Work state. Often there is confusion as to what that means. Many people believe it means that you can be fired from your job without explanation, and they are, therefore, reluctant to live and work in a Right to Work state. 1. If you work primarily in a Right to Work state you have the right to decline joining a union and you cannot be required to pay dues or an agency fee to the union unless you choose to join the union. This includes State or Local Government employees, Public School Teachers and College Professors. 2.
The average unemployment rate in the 24 states with right-to-work laws was 7 percent, while the average rate in the 26 states plus D.C. that do not have right-to-work laws was just under 7.6 percent--a difference of just under .6 percent. However, a study conducted in 2007 by Lonnie Stevans of Hofstra University suggested that both sides of the argument are, to some degree, accurate. This week Michigan became the 24th state in the country to adopt a right-to-work law. The passage of the bill by the state legislature, and eventual signing by Rick Snyder, the state's Republican governor, brought a huge wave of protests in a state with deep union roots
Workers should carefully read the fine print before signing such a card. Click on a Right to Work state below to read that state's Right to Work law.(Links are to the current active Right to Work provisions in state law. For a timeline of when state Right to Work laws were originally adopted click here.). 
Section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley Act also authorizes individual states (but not local governments, such as cities or counties) to outlaw the union shop and agency shop for employees working in their jurisdictions. Any state law that outlaws such arrangements is known as a right-to-work law. Marvit) have argued that while it is an effective political slogan, the phrase right-to-work is a misnomer because the lack of such a law does not deprive anyone of the right to work; a right-to-work law simply gives employees the right to be free riders--to benefit from collective bargaining without paying for it.
Arizona is a  Right to Work  state. In plain English that means that if employees decide to form a union, you may not be fired if you decide not to join. Likewise, if you are a member of a union in Arizona, and you decide to resign from the union, you may not be fired for that reason. Right to work laws are statutes that prohibit the use of union membership (or non-membership) as a condition for getting hired. In states without these laws, some jobs are not available to non-union workers as a condition of union contracts with employers
right to work often confused with at will employment. People often confuse the concept of right to work with at will employment. They have nothing to do with one another. Indeed, Arizona is a right to work state. This means that Arizona has a statute that forbids an employer and a union from agreeing to require union membership as a condition of employment. As a result, unions have a difficult time getting a foothold in many workplaces. 
A Right to Work law guarantees that no person can be compelled, as a condition of employment, to join or not to join, or to pay dues to a labor union. In other words, if you work in a Right to Work state, like Arizona, and the employees form a union, you may not be fired if you decide not to join. Likewise, if you are a member of a union in a Right to Work state, and you decide to resign from the union, you may not be fired for that reason. 1. If you work primarily in a Right to Work state you have the right to decline joining a union and you cannot be required to pay dues or an agency fee to the union unless you choose to join the union. This includes State or Local Government employees, Public School Teachers and College Professors. 2.
Whether or not you agree with Right to Work laws, and whether or not you want to live in a Right to Work state, it is important to recognize that the Right to Work laws are not to be confused with the concept of Employment at Will, which means that employment is voluntary for both employees and employers. 1. If you work primarily in a Right to Work state you have the right to decline joining a union and you cannot be required to pay dues or an agency fee to the union unless you choose to join the union. This includes State or Local Government employees, Public School Teachers and College Professors. 2.