Personal financial advisors, a career that many CFPs hold, had a mean hourly wage of $43.66 and a mean annual wage of $90,820 in May 2012 (www.bls.gov). PayScale.com noted that the national salary for the 10th-90th percentile range was $43,342-$146,641 for CFPs as of January 2014. Certified financial planners have a good head for numbers and help others make money. Keep reading to learn about a career as a certified financial planner and how much you could expect to earn. Schools offering Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
Experience. Because CFP® certification indicates to the public your ability to provide financial planning without supervision, CFP Board requires you to have three years of professional experience in the financial planning process, or two years of apprenticeship experience that meets additional requirements. In addition, the CFP® certification prepares you for a career-long commitment to meeting the ever-changing needs of your clients. As a CFP® professional, you become a coach and problem-solver, able to provide truly personalized services to clients and to maintain high levels of financial planning and professionalism.
The median for people with five to 10 years of experience is only a little bit higher at $72K. After working for 10 to 20 years, Certified Financial Planners make a median salary of $93K. Professionals who have racked up more than two decades of experience enjoy comfortable salaries; at this stage, median wages are a cushy $149K. Median overall income in this area is approximately $71K. Total cash compensation to Certified Financial Planners varies from $43K to $152K; higher pay grades include potential for bonuses and profit sharing as high as $26K each.
CFP Board conducted a nationwide consumer survey among upper-income households. That survey reflects the public's growing demand for financial planners who adhere to rigorous standards. Of those surveyed: 1  85% considered successful completion of a certification examination very important or extremely important.. In addition, the CFP® certification prepares you for a career-long commitment to meeting the ever-changing needs of your clients. As a CFP® professional, you become a coach and problem-solver, able to provide truly personalized services to clients and to maintain high levels of financial planning and professionalism.
Job Description. A certified financial planner (CFP) is a financial planner who has earned certification. As a CFP, it is your job to help individuals and companies develop financial strategies. To be eligible for certification, you must hold a bachelor's degree and have three years of finance experience. Certified financial planners have a good head for numbers and help others make money. Keep reading to learn about a career as a certified financial planner and how much you could expect to earn. Schools offering Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
Individuals with the Certified Financial Planner designation enjoy an above-average salary range as well as promising current and future job availability. The salary range for a certified financial planner should be viewed in a broad context including experience, length of time in the field and geographic location. As with many professions, the average income varies. To put the salary data into context, it's helpful to explore the minimum credentials for this profession. The Certified Financial Planner (CFP) designation is achieved through education, work experience, and examination. This designation is governed by the CFP board
The Financial Planning Association does not verify credentials; it just lists planners. You'll next have to verify a planner's CFP status and background with the CFP Board of Standards. Fee-Only Planners are paid only for the advice they give. They do not earn commissions by selling financial products such as life insurance or mutual funds. There are a couple of key advantages to going the fee-only route. First, you don't have to worry that your planner is making a recommendation to generate fees.
Certified Financial Planner (CFP) Salary. (United States). A substantial slice of final earnings for Certified Financial Planners (more than two-fifths) arrives through commissions. Median overall income in this area is approximately $71K. Total cash compensation to Certified Financial Planners varies from $43K to $152K; higher pay grades include potential for bonuses and profit sharing as high as $26K each.
Managing your personal finances is ultimately your responsibility. However, you don’t have to do it alone. A qualified financial planner, such as a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™ licensee, can help you make decisions that make the most of your financial resources. To earn the prestigious CFP® designation and remain licensed as a CFP professional, individuals must meet four main requirements. Examination-They must successfully complete the CFP Board’s comprehensive certification examination, which tests the individual’s knowledge on various key aspects of financial planning.