1 Adding a basement to an existing house requires: building permits and engineering plans; raising and supporting the house; excavating the basement space (and hauling away the dirt); re-grading and creating new drainage; and pouring concrete footers, floors and walls. 2  A video illustrates the process using a skid loader. 1 For a remodeling project that includes adding a basement (either under the existing home or as part of an addition being built), the National Association of the Remodeling Industry offers tips for choosing a contractor, as well as a searchable database of its members.
Adding basement under existing home. In weighing my ideas for adding basement space to my existing home, I was wondering if anyone had their home lifted and added a basement, or you know of someone that did this. I live in a small rancher, and we're thinking of an addition/remodel. 
Do you want more room in your home but are reluctant to take up valuable lawn, garden or play space? Why add on when you can add under? Adding a basement to an existing home is the most cost effective addition you can put on your house per square foot. 
It is possible to build a new basement under an existing house. The house would have to be jacked up and have steel I-beams placed under the walls and floors. If your house is built on a slab you may have to build a temporary floor to hold the walls together. 
Answers. Best Answer: Usually basements are dug before the house is built. Putting one now could cause the house to collapse. The 1st step is hire a good local engineer to look at the home and draw plans for the project. 
Overall Cost. The overall cost of constructing a basement under an existing home will vary widely depending on a number of factors, including the size of the basement, the labor required, the materials and the paperwork required. Expect to pay no less than $30,000 to $50,000 to build yourself a basement. 
We will set the building on it's new foundation. Install a Basement under existing House. Our company can install a new basement under your existing house while you continue to live in the house. We will insert beams under your house, lift the house free of the foundation with our unified Sidewinder Jacking System. Excavate under the house keeping most all utilities hooked up. Install footers and block.
1 In warmer climates where the foundation does not have to be as deep (typically 18-20 for a crawlspace or a few inches for a slab foundation), including a basement adds more to the total cost of the house because it requires a lot more additional excavation, far beyond what would be done without a basement. 1 For a remodeling project that includes adding a basement (either under the existing home or as part of an addition being built), the National Association of the Remodeling Industry offers tips for choosing a contractor, as well as a searchable database of its members.
1 Adding a basement to an existing house can cost $30,000-$70,000 or more, depending on the size of the existing crawlspace or half-basement or if the house is on a slab foundation, and how much of the work is do-it-yourself and how much is done by contractors. 1 For a remodeling project that includes adding a basement (either under the existing home or as part of an addition being built), the National Association of the Remodeling Industry offers tips for choosing a contractor, as well as a searchable database of its members.
Cost to dig out and construct a 1100sft basement under a existing home on a crawl w 3 beds 3 window wells an bath. Would like to move furnace water heater and water softener down as well. Then also to add about 8ft out off of back off home w New basement under that as well finish off w New Windows and siding. 1 Why would you install a furnace and hot water heater upstairs instead of the basement which was built as a new home. 2  Give estimate of cost for 3000 sq foot home 3 bedrooms 4 bath with unfinished walkout basement with out land in Greeneville TN.