-- Ask the people you are serving how they like their steaks cooked. Steaks for those who like their meat well-done should go under the broiler a few minutes before the steaks for those who like their meat rare to medium. -- Place the steaks on the unheated rack of the broiler pan.-- For 1-inch steaks cooked to medium doneness, broil the steaks for about 15 minutes, turning once halfway through cooking time. Allow less time for rare steaks and more time for well-done steaks.
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. Grind on black pepper. Immediately place the steak in the middle of the hot, dry skillet. Cook 30 seconds without moving. Turn with tongs and cook another 30 seconds, then put the pan straight into the oven for 2 minutes. Flip the steak and cook for another 2 minutes. (This time is for medium-rare steak.
Turn the broiler on and heat the pan you will be cooking the steaks on. Just as you don’t want to throw the steak in a cold pan or on a cold grill, you want to make sure your broiler pan is nice and hot as well. Oil it a little with olive oil and turn the broiler on for 10 minutes. When the broiler is preheated, put your steaks on the pan and slide it under the flame. 
Instructions. 1  PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. Remove from oven. HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min. 
Flip the steak and cook for an additional 1-2 minutes over high heat. You won't need as much time on the second side of the steak because it will continue to develop color (from contact with the bottom of the pan) in the oven. 
To roast a steak: 1  Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. 2  Season the steak. 3  Sear steak in a hot skillet for just a minute on each side. 4  Transfer steak to a wire rack on a rimmed baking sheet and place in the preheated oven. 5  Roast for 20 to 25 minutes, until desired doneness is achieved. 1 Season the steak. 2  Sear steak in a hot skillet for just a minute on each side. 3  Transfer steak to a wire rack on a rimmed baking sheet and place in the preheated oven. 4
Broil your steak. Place your steak into the oven on the rack closest to the broiler. Cooking times will vary greatly based on the cut of steak, cooking altitude, type of oven you're using, and how hot the broiler runs; cooking times can range from 3 to 18 minutes. A good rule of thumb to go by is to watch it! 
Line a broiler pan with aluminum foil, add the top, and spray the top with nonstick cooking spray. Broil the steak 4 to 6 minutes per side: Remove the steak from the marinade, shake off any excess, and place it in the middle of the broiler pan. Slide it directly under the broil. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, flip it over, and broil for another 4 to 6 minutes (8 to 12 minutes total).
1 Return the steak flat in the pan. 2  Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook until an instant-read thermometer reads to desired doneness (oven cooking time will be anywhere from 5-15 minutes depending on the desired doneness of your steak --- for medium-rare 140-145 degrees and for medium 155-160 degrees. 
1 PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. 4  Remove from oven.HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min.nstructions. 1