BIOLOGY I: Chapter 19 – Viruses Viral Structure (Anatomy): The Inner Core of Nucleic Acid  A virus contains only one type of nucleic acid, DNA or RNA, as part of their inner core. In contrast, in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, DNA is always the primary genetic material and RNA plays an auxiliary role. BIOLOGY I: Chapter 19 – Viruses Evelyn I. Milian-Instructor 16 Taxonomy (Classification) of Viruses  Classification of viruses is based on (1) nucleic acid type, (2) strategy for replication, and (3) morphology.  Family names end in – viridae.
About the Flu Virus. Influenza, or flu, is a respiratory infection caused by any of several flu viruses, which are classified as type A, B, or C based on their nucleic acids and protein composition. Type A viruses are found in humans and many animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and whales. Type A influenza viruses caused the global flu outbreaks of 1918, 1957, 1968, and 2009. Type B viruses circulate widely in humans.
Viruses consist of nucleic acid, either deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA), contained within a protein coat. The nucleic acid contains the virus's genetic m … aterial (genome) and codes for all the proteins needed to make a new virus. Actually, nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) are linear polymers of nucleotides (a purine or pyrimidine nitro … genous base + a pentose sugar + a phosphate group).
There are five chief types of components in nucleic acids: cytosine, guanine, thymine, uracil, and adenine. Whether the acid contains uracil or thymine determines whether it is DNA (thymine) or RNA (uracil). Examples of Nucleic Acids: 1. DNA. Deoxyribonucleic acid, also known as DNA, is a well-known component in genetics. It contains all of the genetic information for a living organism, carried as long strings of information called genes. These genes are found in the nucleus of the cells.
Nucleic Acid-Just as in cells, the nucleic acid of each virus encodes the genetic information for the synthesis of all proteins. While the double-stranded DNA is responsible for this in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, only a few groups of viruses use DNA. Viruses are further classified into families and genera based on three structural considerations: 1) the type and size of their nucleic acid, 2) the size and shape of the capsid, and 3) whether they have a lipid envelope surrounding the nucleocapsid (the capsid enclosed nucleic acid).
Flu (Influenza) Cause. Influenza, or flu, is a respiratory infection caused by any of several flu viruses, which are classified as type A, B, or C based on their nucleic acids and protein composition. Type A viruses are found in humans and many animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and whales. Type A influenza viruses caused the global flu outbreaks of 1918, 1957, 1968, and 2009. Type B viruses circulate widely in humans.
Viruses can have either DNA or RNA (a virus will never have both at the same time, although some viruses can have each one separately at different stages of their life cycles). RNA viruses are much more common than DNA viruses. Confidence votes 175. 
Yes, nitrogen is found in nucleic acids in the form of nitrogenous base. Actually, nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) are linear polymers of nucleotides (a purine or pyrimidine nitro … genous base + a pentose sugar + a phosphate group).
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides. Nucleic acids are among the most important biological macromolecules (others being amino acids/proteins, sugars/carbohydrates, and lipids/fats). Although first discovered within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, nucleic acids are now known to be found in all life forms including within bacteria, archaea, mitochondria, chloroplasts, viruses, and viroids.