Connective tissue disease refers to a group of disorders involving the protein-rich tissue that supports organs and other parts of the body. Examples of connective tissue are fat, bone, and cartilage. These disorders often involve the joints, muscles, and skin, but they can also involve other organs and organ systems including the eyes, heart, lungs, kidneys, gastrointestinal tract, and blood vessels. Some connective tissue diseases -- often called heritable disorders of connective tissue (HDCTs) -- are the result of changes in certain genes. Many of these are quite rare. Following are some of the more common ones.
List components of ground substance. List major fiber types found in connective tissue matrix. List 5 types of collagen and their respective distributions. Identify the cell types of connective tissue proper, their origins, and major functions. Recognize and classify 3 types of adult connective tissue proper. 
Connective tissue (blue) is seen supporting the epithelium (purple). Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water.
Areolar and reticular tissue are types of loose connective tissue that provide support, as well as fill up unused spaces in the body. Blood, a fluid connective tissue, provides a transport system within our body for oxygen and other important substances. Adipose, or fat tissue, is an example of loose connective tissue. The subcutaneous tissue, or innermost layer of skin, is made up of adipose tissue, as well as areolar tissue, another loose connective tissue. If we pull on our skin, we can see that it moves around quite easily because of this loose connection.
A connective tissue disease is any disease that affects the parts of the body that connect the structures of the body together. Connective tissues are made up of two proteins: collagen and elastin. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin. When a patient has a connective tissue disease, the collagen and elastin are inflamed
Fluid connective tissue types, of which there are only two, are important in transport and body defense. Most connective tissues are variants of the second group, connective tissue proper where cells are interspersed among protein fibers in a fluid-filled matrix. Supportive connective tissues include cartilage and bone, more durable connective tissue types due to the semisolid or solid ground substance that accumulates in the matrix. Since the matrix of supportive connective tissues is either a semisolid or solid, cells of these tissues occupy small spaces or lacunae.
Specialized connective tissue types include: dense regular connective tissue, cartilage, bone, adipose tissue, blood, and hematopoietic tissue. The majority of specialized connective tissues will be studied in future laboratories. 1. Distinguish the connective tissues from all epithelial tissues on the basis of location, cell density and the presence of discrete fibers. 2. Distinguish between loose irregular (areolar), dense irregular, or dense regular connective tissues on the basis of fiber packing and orientation. 3. Identify, at the light and electron microscopic levels, collagen, reticular, and elastic fiber