With these measurements the resting energy expenditure (REE) and respiratory quotient (RQ) can be calculated. The RQ represents the ratio of carbon dioxide exhaled to. the amount of oxygen consumed by the individual. as a by-product of metabolism, expelled to atmosphere (CO2 output a€“ â). vco2€“ a â all computed to represent values corresponding to 1 minute. Time intervals with these measurements the resting (ENERGY) expenditure ree and (RESPIRATORY) quotient rq can. be calculated
Metabolic rate is a measure of how much food, or fat, is converted to energy in a day. Resting metabolic rate (RMR) is the measurement of how much food, or energy, is required to maintain basic body functions such as heartbeat, breathing, and maintenance of body heat while you are in a state of rest. 
By Mark P. Kelly, Ph.D. Unless you have been living on an island or mountaintop somewhere (or simply don’t watch television), you’ve undoubtedly seen numerous infomercials talking about resting metabolic rate (RMR) and how one exercise or another will increase it, causing body fat to just melt away. Currently, high-intensity interval training (HIIT) appears to be a leading contender for the title of best RMR enhancer, and the exercises that build muscle (i.e., resistance training) are believed to have the greatest effect on the resting metabolic rate.
On a mixed diet, R at rest is 0.82. For a starving individual, R may be as low as 0.70. During maximal exercise, R = 1.0 or greater. Although the formula for R and RQ are the same, R does not equal RQ at the onset of exercise, during hard exercise and post exercise. Since these values are measured at the mouth and not in the lungs, R or Respiratory Exchange Ratio is the term utilized to represent fuel oxidation by indirect calorimetry. When an individual is utilizing 100% carbohydrate for energy, R = 1.0. For fats, R ~ 0.7.
Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate. For example, getting excited or scared can increase the heart rate.
The ratio is determined by comparing exhaled gasses to room air. Measuring this ratio can be used for estimating the respiratory quotient (RQ), an indicator of which fuel (carbohydrate or fat) is being metabolized to supply the body with energy. This estimation is only valid if metabolism is in a steady state. RER is about 0.8 at rest with a modern diet. (May 2007). The respiratory exchange ratio (RER) is the ratio between the amount of oxygen (O 2) consumed and carbon dioxide (CO 2) produced in one breath. Humans typically inhale more molecules of oxygen than they exhale of carbon dioxide.
1 Respiratory Exchange Ratio Respiratory Quotient (RQ) reflects the composition of fuels oxidized by the cells during exercise. At the cellular level, RQ is the volume of CO 2 (VCO 2) produced divided by the volume of oxygen consumed (VO 2) during the same period of time. Since these values are measured at the mouth and not in the lungs, R or Respiratory Exchange Ratio is the term utilized to represent fuel oxidation by indirect calorimetry. When an individual is utilizing 100% carbohydrate for energy, R = 1.0. For fats, R ~ 0.7.
The respiratory quotient (or RQ or respiratory coefficient), is a dimensionless number used in calculations of basal metabolic rate (BMR) when estimated from carbon dioxide production. Such measurements, like measurements of oxygen uptake, are forms of indirect calorimetry. It is measured using Ganong's Respirometer. RQ as measured includes a contribution from the energy produced from protein. However, due to the complexity of the various ways in which different amino acids can be metabolized, no single RQ can be assigned to the oxidation of protein in the diet.