3. Another difference between a DVR and an NVR is access. To view the video that was recorded, you need to be at the DVR (or burn a disk if you want to view it elsewhere). But with an NVR, due to its very nature of being on a network, you can view it remotely. 4.
First off, if you do not know what those two terms stand for, here is your answer: DVR – Digital video recorder & NVR – Network video recorder. Now that we’ve got those two things out of the way, it’s time for an evaluation. 
What is NVR-network video recorder-How is it different from DVR-digital video recorder. network video recorder. A network video recorder is generally used in an IP video surveillance system. It is a software program that can record a video in a digital format. This is possible to a disk drive, a USB flash drive, SD memory card and other storage devices. Videos on a DVR are always encoded and processed at the same time in the DVR. This is quite different when it comes to the NVR. A video on an NVR is processed and encoded in the camera. The processed and encoded videos are streamed to the NVR for storage and remote viewing.
NVR, Inc. (NYSE: NVR) is a United States homebuilding and mortgage company. The homebuilding unit sells and constructs new homes under the Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Rymarc Homes, Fox Ridge Homes and Heartland Homes trade names. 
Video on a DVR is encoded and processed at the DVR, while video on an NVR is encoded and processed at the camera, then streamed to the NVR for storage or remote viewing. An NVR is a software program that records video in a digital format to a disk drive, USB flash drive, SD memory card or other mass storage device. An NVR contains no dedicated video capture hardware. However, the software is typically run on a dedicated device, usually with an embedded operating system.
“NVR” simply stands for Non-Violent Resistance. In the mental health context, NVR is used to denote psychologist Haim Omer’s application of concepts borrowed from political non-violent resistance to the sphere of interpersonal caregiving, whether parental, foster, residential, medical, or educational. NVR as method of struggle. NVR rests on the assumption that there is no way to get around chronic child violence or anxiety other than struggle. When children constantly erode the parental role, when they persistently contest the boundaries between their subsystems and the parents’, tenderness alone will not do.
Let’s begin by outlining the name structural. DVR (Digital Video Recorder): An analog and/or IP based recorder is a consumer electronic device or application software that records video in a digital format to a disk drive, USB flash drive, SD memory card or other local or networked mass storage device. An NVR is a software program that records video in a digital format to a disk drive, USB flash drive, SD memory card or other mass storage device. An NVR contains no dedicated video capture hardware. However, the software is typically run on a dedicated device, usually with an embedded operating system.
NVR as family therapy. NVR is a systemic approach. It rests on the Minuchin view of the family as a system composed of sub-systems, and mainly addresses dysfunctions related to the boundary between the parental and filial subsystems. NVR as method of struggle. NVR rests on the assumption that there is no way to get around chronic child violence or anxiety other than struggle. When children constantly erode the parental role, when they persistently contest the boundaries between their subsystems and the parents’, tenderness alone will not do.
Check what your PC is running. PC-NVR.exe doesn't have a product name yet and it is developed by unknown. We have seen about 28 different instances of PC-NVR.exe in different location. So far we haven't seen any alert about this product. If you think there is a virus or malware with this product, please submit your feedback at the bottom. 
IPS VideoManager Network Video Recorder (NVR) is an IP-based platform for basic, single server video surveillance systems. It supports 4 up to 16 cameras and 5 viewers. The efficient architecture enables future extensions to an advanced Network Video Recorder Pro and the networking with an overall Multi Site Management. 