rgiudici/Flickr. Definition: Crosshatching is an extension of hatching, which uses is the use of fine parallel lines drawn closely together, to create the illusion of shade or texture in a drawing. Crosshatching is the drawing of two layers of hatching at right-angles to create a mesh-like pattern.
Example of hatching (e.g., background) and cross-hatching in many darker areas (visible if viewed at full size). Detail of Veronica. Hatching (hachure in French) is an artistic technique used to create tonal or shading effects by drawing (or painting or scribing) closely spaced parallel lines. 
Definition of HATCHING. : the engraving or drawing of fine lines in close proximity especially to give an effect of shading; also: the pattern so made. See hatching defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Nglish: Translation of hatching for Spanish speakers
Tips. 1  Use cross-hatching in a diary or private journal to prevent others from reading your secrets. 2  Because crossed letters are so difficult to read, try writing the crossed part of the letter with a differently colored ink. 3  The beauty of a crossed letter is greatly enhanced when written in cursive. 
(In drawing or graphics) shade (an area) with intersecting sets of parallel lines: the region is defined by diagonal cross-hatching. More example sentences. 1  In the bundle of materials there is a map which identifies by cross-hatching various areas. 2  Among the very first techniques taught in art classes are how to render objects in a variety of ways: line, shadows, contour line, stippling, cross-hatching and so on. 
Hatching and Cross Hatching. By Matt Fussell. Hatching and cross hatching are linear drawing techniques that can be used to create texture, value, and the illusion of form and light. Typically used as an application technique when the medium is linear in nature, hatching and cross hatching are often used together. Variation in Marks. How hatching and cross hatching is used in a drawing is limitless. The artist can choose to make marks in any manner that they choose. They may also combine linear techniques to create a variety of textures or patterns.
Full Definition of CROSSHATCH. transitive verb. : to mark with two series of parallel lines that intersect. — crosshatch noun. — cross–hatch·ing noun. 
Cross-Hatch Quilting: No-Math Method. Achieve beautiful cross-hatch quilting designs with no math! We'll show you how easy it is! Cross-hatching is a classic quilting pattern that usually requires some serious calculations. But if you're not into math, there is a method for you. 
1. Parallel hatching. Parallel hatching is one of the most basic forms of hatching, and it’s still a very effective way of demonstrating value (light and dark) in a drawing. It consists of rows of parallel lines placed closely together. 