Confidence votes 407. An iatrogenic infection is one actually caused by accidental medical actions. Iatrogenic means a complication as a result of treatment. Iatrogenic means that was caused by a doctor, or by a treatment prescribed by a doctor. Split and merge into it. Answer by Vtel57. 
dis·ease. n. 1. An abnormal condition of a part, organ, or system of an organism resulting from various causes, such as infection, inflammation, environmental factors, or genetic defect, and characterized by an identifiable group of signs, symptoms, or both. 2. Noun. 1. disease-an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning. illness, sickness, unwellness, malady-impairment of normal physiological function affecting part or all of an organism. disease of the neuromuscular junction-a disease characterized by impairment of neuromuscular junctions.
Disease Topics Related To Iatrogenic conditions. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Iatrogenic conditions: 1  Radiation therapyorchemotherapy. 2  Fibromyalgia. 3  Dissociative identity disorder. 4  Bipolar disorder. 
iatrogenic. adjective Referring to a physical or mental condition caused by a physician or health care provider–eg, iatrogenic disease, due to exposure to pathogens, toxins or injurious treatment or procedures. caused by treatment or diagnostic procedures. An iatrogenic disorder is a condition that is caused by medical personnel or procedures or that develops through exposure to the environment of a health care facility.
[ī′atrōjen′ik, yat-]. Etymology: Gk, iatros, physician, genein, to produce. caused by treatment or diagnostic procedures. An iatrogenic disorder is a condition that is caused by medical personnel or procedures or that develops through exposure to the environment of a health care facility.
iatrogenic. adj. 1. (Medicine) med (of an illness or symptoms) induced in a patient as the result of a physician's words or actions, esp as a consequence of taking a drug prescribed by the physician. i·at·ro·gen·ic. adj. Induced unintentionally in a patient by a physician. Used especially of an infection or other complication of treatment. [Greek.
Iatrogenic infection: Related Diseases. Iatrogenic infection: Iatrogenic infection is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Hospital or surgery-related conditions. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Iatrogenic infection: 1  Iatrogenic. 2  Iatrogenic disease. 3  Iatrogenic disorder. 4  Infection (1293 causes). 5  Infection symptoms
Adjective [edit]. iatrogenic ‎(comparative more iatrogenic, superlative most iatrogenic). ( 1 medicine, of a disease, injury, or other bad outcome) Induced by the words or actions of the physician or by medical treatment or diagnostic procedure. 
These medical disease topics may be related to Iatrogenic infection: 1  radiation therapyorchemotherapy. 2  fibromyalgia. 3  dissociative identity disorder. 4  bipolar disorder. 5  somatoform disorder. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Iatrogenic infection: 1  Iatrogenic. 2  Iatrogenic disease. 3  Iatrogenic disorder. 4  Infection (1293 causes). 5  Infection symptoms