Click to read more below. Muscle tissue, one of the four major tissue types, plays the vital role of providing movement and heat generation to the organs of the body. Within muscle tissue are three distinct groups of tissues: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle. Each of these tissue groups is made of specialized cells that give the tissue its unique properties. Visceral muscle cells are found in the organs, blood vessels, and bronchioles of the body to move substances throughout the body. Visceral muscles are also commonly known as smooth muscle due to their lack of striations.
Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion.
Lesson Summary. In summary, the three types of muscle tissue are skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Cardiac and skeletal are both striated muscle as repeating units called sarcomeres give the cells a striated appearance, while smooth muscle lacks such striations. The other general tissue types include epithelial tissue, connective tissue, and nervous tissue. Specifically, we have three different types of muscle tissue, including skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Each type of muscle is unique in terms of its structure and its function.
Click to read more below. Visceral muscle tissue, or smooth muscle, is tissue associated with the internal organs of the body, especially those in the abdominal cavity. There are three types of muscle in the body: skeletal, smooth, and cardiac. Visceral Muscle Tissue. Visceral muscle tissue, or smooth muscle, is tissue associated with the internal organs of the body, especially those in the abdominal cavity.
Smooth muscle is found within the walls of blood vessels (such smooth muscle specifically being termed vascular smooth muscle) such as in the tunica media layer of large (aorta) and small arteries, arterioles and veins. Smooth muscle is fundamentally different from skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle in terms of structure, function, regulation of contraction, and excitation-contraction coupling. Smooth muscle cells known as myocytes, have a fusiform shape and, like striated muscle, can tense and relax.
In multi-unit smooth muscle, the smooth muscle cells in an organ all behave independently-each cell contracts and relaxes on its own. Histologically, multi-unit smooth muscle has many fewer gap junctions than other types of smooth muscle. 
SMOOTH MUSCLE-STRUCTURE. Smooth muscle (shown below) is made up of fusiform (diamond-shaped) cells with a single nucleus. The cells are arranged in sheets and contain three filament types: a) actin filaments with no troponin and tropomyosin (5 - 8 times more actin than skeletal muscle). 
About half of your body’s weight is muscle. Muscle tissue is categorized into three distinct types: skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Each type of muscle tissue in the human body has a unique structure and a specific role. Skeletal muscle moves bones and other structures. Cardiac muscle contracts the heart to pump blood. The smooth muscle tissue that forms organs like the stomach and bladder changes shape to facilitate bodily functions.
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion.