Biometric Access Control terminal, employing fingerprint and/or RFID card. TT582. The TT582 is an access control product with built in controller, or can be connected to third party access control controllers. The reader can also be used for Time & Attendance. 
Biometric, biometric security system, biometrics concerns, recognition methods, identification, access control, facial recognition, fingerprint reader, voice recognition, iris/retinal recognition, vein recognition, DNA recognition, privacy, safety. For example, users can share their fingerprints, iris and so forth allowing other users access to secure information. Each trait used during identification is a single property of that user. In other words, it is extremely hard or impossible to make duplicate or share biometrics accessing data with other users.
Logical access control refers to a process of a scheme control over data files or computer programs. These contain personal or privacy information of many different users. Logical access control is used by militaries and governments to protect their important data with high security systems using biometric technology. For example, users can share their fingerprints, iris and so forth allowing other users access to secure information. Each trait used during identification is a single property of that user. In other words, it is extremely hard or impossible to make duplicate or share biometrics accessing data with other users.
Biometric Access Control Principles. Biometrics is a method of establishing a person’s identity based on chemical, behavioral, or physical attributes of that person, and is relevant in large-scale identity management across a wide range of applications. The System Database. A biometric system database stores all the information needed for processing biometric readings. When establishing access control parameters, the feature template is input into the database, sometimes along with biographical information specific to the user in order to enhance security levels.
When the biometric is used forverification (e.g., access control), the biometric system confirmsthe validity of the claimed identity. When used for identification,the biometric technology compares a specific person's biometricwith all of the stored biometric records to see if there is amatch. 
To fix that problem, biometrics security system can be applied. The most use of biometrics security system in network is the logical access control method. It will verify person's identification for secure workstation logon or network logon to get access control to the system [Reid, 2011] . For example, users can share their fingerprints, iris and so forth allowing other users access to secure information. Each trait used during identification is a single property of that user. In other words, it is extremely hard or impossible to make duplicate or share biometrics accessing data with other users.
In the fields of physical security and information security, access control is the selective restriction of access to a place or other resource. The act of accessing may mean consuming, entering, or using. Permission to access a resource is called authorization. There may be fences to avoid circumventing this access control. An alternative of access control in the strict sense (physically controlling access itself) is a system of checking authorized presence, see e.g. Ticket controller (transportation) . A variant is exit control, e.g. of a shop (checkout) or a country.
Biometrics refers to metrics related to human characteristics. Biometrics authentication (or realistic authentication) is used in computer science as a form of identification and access control. It is also used to identify individuals in groups that are under surveillance. Biometric identifiers are the distinctive, measurable characteristics used to label and describe individual
Security. The ACTAtek biometric and card access control system can be used to monitor and limit access throughout a facility, ensuring employees and visitors alike only have access to approved areas with a variety of authentication. The ACTAtek system is the culmination of over ten years of experience in biometric and card based physical access control solutions.