Nigeria is a federal republic modeled after the United States, with executive power exercised by the president. The government of Nigeria is also influenced by the Westminster System model in the composition and management of the upper and lower houses of a bicameral legislature. The president, however, is the head of state, the head of government, and the head of a multi-party system. Nigerian politics takes place within a framework of a federal, presidential, representative democratic republic, in which executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is held by the government and the two chambers of the legislature: the House of Representatives and the Senate. Together, the two chambers make up the law-making body in Nigeria, called the National Assembly, which serves as a check on the executive arm of
There are four types of justice that people can seek when they have been wronged. Distributive justice, also known as economic justice, is about fairness in what people receive, from goods to attention. Its roots are in social order and it is at the roots of socialism, where equality is a fundamental principle. Distributive justice
The justice system does not respond to most crime because so much crime is not discovered or reported to the police. Law enforcement agencies learn about crime from the reports of victims or other citizens, from discovery by a police officer in the field, from informants, or from investigative and intelligence work. To a larger version of the chart. The flowchart of the events in the criminal justice system (shown in the diagram) updates the original chart prepared by the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice in 1967.
The law of Nigeria is based on the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, and British common law (due to the long history of British colonial influence). Legislative power is held by the government and the two chambers of the legislature: the House of Representatives and the Senate. Together, the two chambers make up the law-making body in Nigeria, called the National Assembly, which serves as a check on the executive arm of government.
The Federal Republic of Nigeria, commonly referred to as Nigeria /naɪˈdʒɪəriə/ , is a federal constitutional republic in West Africa, bordering Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north. At the same time, neighboring countries, Benin, Chad, Cameroon and Niger joined Nigeria in a united effort to combat Boko Haram in the aftermath of a world media highlighted kidnapping of 276 schoolgirls and the spread of Boko Haram attacks to these countries.
The criminal justice system is the set of agencies and processes established by governments to control crime and impose penalties on those who violate laws. There is no single criminal justice system in the United States but rather many similar, individual systems. How the criminal justice system works in each area depends on the jurisdiction that is in charge: city, county, state, federal or tribal government or military installation. Different jurisdictions have different laws, agencies, and ways of managing criminal justice processes. 1 The main systems are:
Today, Nigeria uses a tripartite system of criminal law and justice: the Criminal Code (based on English Common Law and legal practice); the Penal Code (based on Maliki Law and a Muslim system of law and justice); and Customary Law (based on the customs and traditions of the people). In response to the severe economic problems of Nigeria and the over-crowding in Nigerian prisons, community-based corrections exist for offenders convicted of trivial crimes. These community-based programs include labor camps, open prison incarceration, and community service.
Nigeria was previously a British Colony. Therefore, the basis of the Nigerian criminal law is the English law. (Nigeria's capital territory of Nigeria-Lagos was annexed by the British in 1849. Later, other regions of Nigeria were declared protectorates and administered by the Royal Niger Company Chartered and Limited. In response to the severe economic problems of Nigeria and the over-crowding in Nigerian prisons, community-based corrections exist for offenders convicted of trivial crimes. These community-based programs include labor camps, open prison incarceration, and community service.
The adjudication of the law is generally divided into two main areas referred to as (i) Criminal law and (ii) Civil law. Criminal law deals with conduct that is considered harmful to social order and in which the guilty party may be imprisoned or fined. In The Concept of Law Hart argued law is a system of rules; Austin said law was the command of a sovereign, backed by the threat of a sanction; Dworkin describes law as an interpretive concept to achieve justice; and Raz argues law is an authority to mediate people's interests.