Mendeleev's table was the one to become universally accepted for two major reasons. First, he left strategic gaps in his table to account for elements that had not yet been discovered (and subsequently were discovered and fit the expectations required in his periodic table).
This table and the accompanying observations were first presented to the Russian Chemical Society in March 1869. (Actually, Mendeleev was ill, and his colleague Nikolai Menshutkin presented his paper [Menschutkin 1934].) The paper was published in the first volume of the new society's journal.
Mendeleev developed the periodic table of elements by arranging the elements in order of increasing atomic mass in 1869. He discovered that elements with similar properties oc … curred in a periodic pattern.
Mendeleev realized that the physical and chemical properties of elements were related to their atomic mass in a 'periodic' way, and arranged them so that groups of elements with similar properties fell into vertical columns in his table.
Isotopes are atoms of the same element having different atomic mass but same atomic number. For e.g., there are three isotopes of hydrogen with atomic mass 1, 2, and 3. According to Mendeleev's periodic table these should be placed at three separate places.
Mendeleev developed the periodic table of elements by arranging the elements in order of increasing atomic mass in 1869. He discovered that elements with similar properties oc … curred in a periodic pattern. He was able to predict the properties of elements that were missing at the time because of this pattern. In 1914, Moseley contributed to the periodic table by reorganizing the elements according to atomic number.
He realised that the physical and chemical properties of elements were related to their atomic mass in a 'periodic' way, and arranged them so that groups of elements with similar properties fell into vertical columns in his table.
Dmitri Mendeleev was born at Tobolsk, Siberia in 1834 and died in 1907. Mendeleev studied science at St. Petersburg and graduated in 1856. In 1863 Mendeleev was appointed to a professorship and in 1866 he succeeded to the Chair in the University.
Another table in order of relative atomic mass. Dmitri Mendeleev (1834 - 1907). In 1869, just five years after John Newlands put forward his law of octaves, a Russian chemist called Dmitri Mendeleev published a periodic table.