Hormonal and nerve inputs that maintain an organ or body part are referred to as trophic [noun] in medical practice ('trophic is an adjective that can be paired with various nouns). Trophic describes the trophic condition of tissue. A diminished muscular trophic is designated as atrophy. Atrophy is the general physiological process of reabsorption and breakdown of tissues, involving apoptosis. When it occurs as a result of disease or loss of trophic support due to other disease, it is termed pathological atrophy, although it can be a part of normal body development and homeostasis as well
Muscle Atrophy. Muscle atrophy is when muscles waste away. The main reason for muscle wasting is a lack of physical activity. This can happen when a disease or injury makes it difficult or impossible for you to move an arm or leg. You may have muscle loss if one of your limbs appears smaller (not shorter) than the other. 
atrophy. A wasting, shrinking or degeneration of an organ or tissue due to malnutrition, poor blood circulation, loss of nerve supply, disuse, disease or hormonal changes. choroidal atrophy A group of ocular degenerations of the choroid. disuse atrophy atrophy of a tissue or organ as a result of inactivity or diminished function. gyrate atrophy of choroid and retina a rare hereditary, slowly progressive atrophy of the choroid and pigment epithelium of the retina; inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
atrophy. 1. a wasting away; a diminution in the size of a cell, tissue, organ, or part. 2. to undergo or cause atrophy. acute yellow atrophy the shrunken, yellow liver which is a complication, usually fatal, of fulminant hepatitis with massive hepatic necrosis. disuse atrophy atrophy of a tissue or organ as a result of inactivity or diminished function. gyrate atrophy of choroid and retina a rare hereditary, slowly progressive atrophy of the choroid and pigment epithelium of the retina; inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.
Atrophied cells have fewer and smaller organelles. Organ Atrophy is a decrease in the tissue mass of an organ due to either a decrease in size of individual cells (cellular atrophy), a decrease in number of cells, or both. Atrophy is a form of cell adaptation in response to decreased trophic influences, decreased functional demands or decreased nutrition. Cellular Atrophy is a decrease in cell size caused by loss of subcellular organelles and substances.
Atrophy is a degeneration of either all or one part of the body, and is often referred to as wasting.. It can occur for many reasons, but the two main causes are disuse and disease. 
Muscle atrophy is defined as a decrease in the mass of the muscle; it can be a partial or complete wasting away of muscle, and is most commonly experienced when persons suffer temporary disabling circumstances such as being restricted in movement and/or confined to bed as when hospitalized. 
Full Definition of ATROPHY. 1. : decrease in size or wasting away of a body part or tissue; also: arrested development or loss of a part or organ incidental to the normal development or life of an animal or plant. 2. — atro·phic \(ˌ)ā-ˈtrō-fik\ adjective. — atrophy \ˈa-trə-fē, -ˌfī\ verb. 1. : decrease in size or wasting away of a body part or tissue; also: arrested development or loss of a part or organ incidental to the normal development or life of an animal or plant. 2