Greater Titusville Renaissance A rebirth is on the horizon for the Greater Titusville area, and with it brings new businesses, restaurants, culture, art, landscaping and employment. North Brevard is a place we have all grown to know and love, but it's agreed that there are areas that need extensive improvement.
Brevard County is the sole county in the Palm Bay – Melbourne – Titusville, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area (formerly the Melbourne-Titusville-Cocoa, Florida Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area and Melbourne-Titusville-Palm Bay, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area). There is no major urban center. The county is unofficially divided into three sections: North County, comprising Titusville, Mims and Port St. John; Central Brevard, which includes Cocoa, Rockledge, Merritt Island, and Cocoa Beach; and South County, which includes Melbourne, Palm Bay, Grant, Valkaria, and the South Beaches.
Text below was adapted from a copy of the original nomination document. [1] Adaptation copyright © 2011, The Gombach Group. Summary. The City of Titusville is located in Brevard County, Florida, approximately 40 miles east of Orlando and 46 miles south of Daytona Beach. It is situated beside the Indian River, a salt water lagoon stretching along the Florida East Coast some 100 miles from southern Volusia County to northern Martin County. Photo: Wager House, ca. 1891, 621 Indian River Avenue, Titusville, FL. Listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1990. Photographed by User:FI295 (own work), 2011, [cc0-by-1.0 (creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/deed.en], via Wikimedia Commons, accessed September, 2014.
Brevard County comprises the Palm Bay – Melbourne –Titusville, FL Metropolitan Statistical Area. It is located along the east Florida coast along the Atlantic Ocean. Influenced by the presence of the John F. Kennedy Space Center, Brevard County is also known as the Space Coast. The county is unofficially divided into three sections: North County, comprising Titusville, Mims and Port St. John; Central Brevard, which includes Cocoa, Rockledge, Merritt Island, and Cocoa Beach; and South County, which includes Melbourne, Palm Bay, Grant, Valkaria, and the South Beaches.
The System actually consists of 3 lagoons: the Mosquito Lagoon, the Banana River, and the Indian River. Titusville provides a picture glass window to this unique body of water. The lagoon straddles the transition zone between colder temperate and warmer sub-tropical biological provinces. Here, as perhaps nowhere else in the continental United States, tropical and temperate species coexist and thrive
Titusville is a city in Brevard County, Florida. The city's population was 43,761 at the 2010 United States Census, and it is the county seat of Brevard County. Titusville is on the Indian River, west of Merritt Island and the Kennedy Space Center and south-southwest of the Canaveral National Seashore. It is a principal city of the Palm Bay – Melbourne –Titusville Metropolitan Statistical Area
JOBS As of January 1, 2015, the minimum wage in Florida is $8.05/hour. The Job Place - 422 Julia St., Titusville City of Titusville Employment Opportunities Career Source Brevard -- Brevard County's Job centers for job seekers and employers. A rebirth is on the horizon for the Greater Titusville area, and with it brings new businesses, restaurants, culture, art, landscaping and employment. North Brevard is a place we have all grown to know and love, but it's agreed that there are areas that need extensive improvement
Located in Brevard County on the beautiful Space Coast of Florida and near the Florida Institute of Technology (FIT). General Dentist in Melbourne, FL:.... 1 View all Brevard County Sheriff's Office jobs in Titusville, FL-Titusville jobs. 2  Salary Search: Communication Officer salaries in Titusville, FL. 3  Learn more about working at Brevard County Sheriff's Office.
Description provided by Trulia. Brevard County Titusville #32780 This property is located at Brevard County Titusville #32780, Titusville FL. Brevard County Titusville #32780 is in the city of Titusville, FL. This property is listed by newcondosonline.com for $184,990. Brevard County Titusville #32780 has 3 beds and approximately 1,857 square feet. 