A. A. A. Calcium channel blockers are drugs used to lower blood pressure. They work by slowing the movement of calcium into the cells of the heart and blood vessel walls, which makes it easier for the heart to pump and widens blood vessels. As a result, the heart doesn't have to work as hard, and blood pressure lowers
Intravenous diltiazem should be used with caution with beta-blockers because, while the combination is most potent at reducing heart rate, there are rare instances of dysrhythmia and AV node block. Diltiazem is metabolized by and acts as an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 enzyme which can cause it to interact with a variety of other medications.
Both beta-blocking agents and calcium channel blockers are commonly used to treat AFF in the ED. Metoprolol is the most commonly used beta-blocker; and diltiazem is the most frequently used calcium channel antagonist.[8] Diltiazem was released by the FDA for treatment of AFF in 1992.
No, Lotrel, a medication used to treat hypertension, is part of the Calcium-Channel Blocker (CCB) class. CCB's allow the heart and blood vessels to relax by preventing calcium … from entering the muscles. Beta-Blockers function differently. 
Diltiazem (INN) (/dɪlˈtaɪəzɛm/) is a nondihydropyridines (non-DHP) calcium channel blocker used in the treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris, and some types of arrhythmia. Diltiazem is metabolized by and acts as an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 enzyme which can cause it to interact with a variety of other medications.
... However, for blacks, calcium channel blockers may be more effective than other blood pressure medications, such as beta blockers, ACE inhibitors or ... Check with your pharmacist or physician before taking a calcium channel blocker. ... Beta-blocker drugs, such as propranolol, Inderal and Toprol, treat high blood pressure and ... I personally don't prescribe a lot of beta-blockers because of side effects.”.
Your medical options are beta blockers and calcium channel blockers. It is unlikely that digoxin would be helpful here. If the beta blockers bother you, it would be worth trying a calcium channel blocker like verapamil or diltiazem. When my HR is low I have problems with near syncope when exercising and have to stop. It sounds as if you need either a calcium channel blocker (verapamil or diltiazem) since you did not tolerate the beta blocker, or an EP study and ablation which can be a cure in the vast majority of patients, with very little risk at all.
This means diltiazem causes a decrease in heart muscle contractility-how strong the beat is, lowering of heart rate-due to slowing of the sinoatrial node, and a slowing of conduction through the atrioventricular node-increasing the time needed for each beat. Diltiazem is metabolized by and acts as an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 enzyme which can cause it to interact with a variety of other medications.