A dark cave. This is where one will most likely hear ambience sounds. Ambience (cave sounds in Console Edition) is a set of sounds that occasionally play when the player is in close proximity to a dark cave. They were made by C418, who also composed Minecraft's music.
In filmmaking, ambience (also known as atmosphere, atmos, or background) consists of the sounds of a given location or space. Ambience is normally recorded in stereo by the sound department during the production stage of filmmaking. It is used to provide a movie location with sonic space and normally occupies a separate track in the sound edit.
Full Definition of AMBIENCE. : a feeling or mood associated with a particular place, person, or thing: atmosphere. See ambience defined for English-language learners. 
ambience-a particular environment or surrounding influence; there was an atmosphere of excitement. ambiance, atmosphere. condition, status-a state at a particular time; a condition (or state) of disrepair; the current status of the arms negotiations. genius loci-the special atmosphere of a place. noun atmosphere, feel, setting, air, quality, character, spirit, surroundings, tone, mood, impression, flavour, temper, tenor, aura, complexion, vibes (slang), vibrations (slang), milieu The overall ambience of the room is cosy.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of ambience, or ambiance, is a specific feeling or mood connected to a specific person, place, or thing. An example of ambience is the feeling of romance associated with a candlelight dinner, wine, and soft music. ...noted changes from the period of Jesus ’ lifetime to that of Paul in ambience and social composition of the Jesus movement; with implications for both core religious views and anti-Jewish polemical stances.
1 The character and atmosphere of a place: the relaxed ambience of the cocktail lounge is popular with guests. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  So the ambience and atmosphere was scoring top marks so far-but let's get down to the food. 2  It was a truly superb experience, the ambience and the atmosphere was incredible. 3  Sunlight streams in through the windows, highlighting the artwork and contributing to the relaxed ambience.
[Herald Sun] Evidently, too many coffee shops in town have had their ambience wrecked when itinerant word processors with laptops turn the tables into office space. [New York Times]. A mbience and ambiance are different spellings of the same word, referring to the special atmosphere or mood of a particular environment. While some dictionaries list ambiance as the standard spelling, ambience is far more common in all main 21st-century varieties of English. It’s worth noting, though, that ambiance tends to take precedence in contexts relating to art and design, but this is by no means a rule, and exceptions abound. Ambiance is the French word from which the English one derives, and ambience is an Anglicization.
Ambient music is a genre of music that puts an emphasis on tone and atmosphere over traditional musical structure or rhythm. Ambient music is said to evoke an atmospheric, visual or unobtrusive quality. According to one of its pioneers Brian Eno, Ambient music must be able to accommodate many levels of listening attention without enforcing one in particular; it must be as ignorable as it is interesting..
1 So the ambience and atmosphere was scoring top marks so far-but let's get down to the food. 2  It was a truly superb experience, the ambience and the atmosphere was incredible. 3  Sunlight streams in through the windows, highlighting the artwork and contributing to the relaxed ambience. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1 