However, an episiotomy is always necessary during a forceps delivery because of the size of the forceps. An episiotomy is a surgical incision made in the perineum, the area of tissue between the vaginal opening and the anus, during the birthing process. This procedure may be used if the tissue around the vaginal opening begins to tear or is not stretching enough to allow the baby to be delivered vaginally. Perineum — The area between the opening of the vagina and the anus in a woman, or the area between the scrotum and the anus in a man. Sitz bath — A shallow tub or bowl, sometimes mounted above a toilet, that allows the perineum and buttocks to be immersed in circulating water.
Definition of EPISIOTOMY. : surgical incision of the perineum to enlarge the vaginal opening for obstetrical purposes during the birth process. See episiotomy defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Definition. An episiotomy is a surgical incision made in the area between the vagina and anus (perineum). This is done during the last stages of labor and delivery to expand the opening of the vagina to prevent tearing during the delivery of the baby. Perineum — The area between the opening of the vagina and the anus in a woman, or the area between the scrotum and the anus in a man. Sitz bath — A shallow tub or bowl, sometimes mounted above a toilet, that allows the perineum and buttocks to be immersed in circulating water.
An episiotomy is a surgical cut from the vagina to the anus, on the area of a woman’s body known as the perineum. Once routine, it continues to be a “common obstetrical procedure,” according to the authors of the 23rd edition of Williams Obstetrics, the 1,385-page manual that serves as a textbook for obstetricians. 
An episiotomy is an incision through the vaginal wall and the perineum (the area between the thighs, extending from the vaginal opening to the anus) to enlarge the vaginal opening and facilitate childbirth. Midline or median. This refers to a vertical incision that is made from the lower opening of the vagina toward the rectum. This type of episiotomy usually heals well but may be more likely to tear and extend into the rectal area, called a third or fourth degree laceration.
Share. An episiotomy is a surgical cut to your perineum, which is the muscular area between your vagina and your back passage. This cut helps your baby to be born, particularly if you're having an assisted birth or if your vagina is not stretching enough during birth. 
An episiotomy is an incision performed between the vagina and the rectum that is used to increase the size of the opening of the vagina to assist in delivery of a baby. 
Click Image to Enlarge. An episiotomy is an incision through the vaginal wall and the perineum (the area between the thighs, extending from the vaginal opening to the anus) to enlarge the vaginal opening and facilitate childbirth. Midline or median. This refers to a vertical incision that is made from the lower opening of the vagina toward the rectum. This type of episiotomy usually heals well but may be more likely to tear and extend into the rectal area, called a third or fourth degree laceration. Mediolateral.
Episiotomy is done as prophylaxis against soft-tissue tearing which would involve the anal sphincter and rectum. Vaginal tears can occur during childbirth, most often at the vaginal opening as the baby's head passes through, especially if the baby descends quickly. (February 2009). An episiotomy (/əˌpiːziːˈɒtəmiː/ or /ɛˌpəsaɪˈɒtəmiː/), also known as perineotomy, is a surgical incision of the perineum and the posterior vaginal wall generally done by a midwife or obstetrician during second stage of labor to quickly enlarge the opening for the baby to pass through.