capsid. the shell of protein that protects the nucleic acid of a virus; it is composed of structural units, or capsomers. According to the number of subunits possessed by capsomers, they are called dimers (2), trimers (3), pentamers (5), or hexamers (6). (kap'sid), /cap·sid/ (kap´sid)
A capsid is the protein shell of a virus. It consists of several oligomeric structural subunits made of protein called protomers. The observable 3-dimensional morphological subunits, which may or may not correspond to individual proteins, are called capsomeres. The capsid encloses the genetic material of the virus. During this process, new capsid subunits are synthesized according to the genetic material of the virus, using the protein biosynthesis mechanism of the cell. During the assembly process, a portal subunit is assembled at one vertex of the capsid. Through this portal, viral DNA or RNA is transported into the capsid
Virus particles contain the viral genome packaged in a protein coat called the capsid. For some viruses, the capsid is surrounded by lipid bilayer that contains viral proteins, usually including the proteins that enable the virus to bind to the host cells. This lipid and protein structure is called the virus envelope, and is derived from the host cell membranes.
capsid. the shell of protein that protects the nucleic acid of a virus; it is composed of structural units, or capsomers. According to the number of subunits possessed by capsomers, they are called dimers (2), trimers (3), pentamers (5), or hexamers (6). (kap'sid), The capsomers of helical viruses are composed of a single polypeptide and are also called protomers. All viruses of animals, except for poxviruses which have a complex structure, are minimally composed of a nucleocapsid which is the capsid surrounding the nucleic acid.
2. capsid-the outer covering of protein surrounding the nucleic acid of a virus. virion - (virology) a complete viral particle; nucleic acid and capsid (and a lipid envelope in some viruses). 
Definition of CAPSID. : the protein shell of a virus particle surrounding its nucleic acid. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of CAPSID. : the protein shell of a virus particle that surrounds its nucleic acid.
Viruses: Capsids. The protein coat that envelopes viral genetic material is known as a capsid. A capsid is composed of protein subunits called capsomeres. Capsids can have several shapes: polyhedral, rod or complex. Capsids function to protect the viral genetic material from damage. A virus particle, also known as a virion, is essentially a nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) enclosed in a protein shell or coat. Viruses are extremely small, approximately 20 - 400 nanometers in diameter. The largest virus, known as the Mimivirus, can measure up to 5
A capsid is composed of structural units called capsomeres. Its symmetry may be cubic or helical. A protein coat that covers the nucleoprotein core or nucleic acid (RNA, DNA) of a free virus particle or phage, which may have icosahedral symmetry and itself be enclosed in an envelope—e.g., Togaviridae. /cap·sid/ (kap´sid) the shell of protein that protects the nucleic acid of a virus; it is composed of structural units, or capsomers.