Liver pain can be hard to identify and localize because pain from abdominal organs, such as the liver, is often perceived in a vague, ill-defined manner by the brain. Even then, right upper quadrant pain can be due to gallstones, intestinal pain, pancreatitis, or other abdominal disorders. Because pain in the liver area can be caused by many different conditions, some of which are serious, it is important for you to contact your health care provider to determine the underlying cause.
Liver pain. Liver pain is felt in the upper right area of the abdomen, just below the ribs. Usually, it is a dull, vague pain though it can sometimes be quite severe and may cause a backache. Sometimes people perceive it as pain in the right shoulder
Front View of the Liver. The liver is a large, meaty organ that sits on the right side of the belly. Weighing about 3 pounds, the liver is reddish-brown in color and feels rubbery to the touch. Normally you can't feel the liver, because it's protected by the rib cage. The liver has two large sections, called the right and the left lobes. 
Liver pain may be confused with a more general abdominal pain, unless it occurs specifically in the upper right abdomen. Even then, right upper quadrant pain can be due to gallstones, intestinal pain, pancreatitis, or other abdominal disorders. Because pain in the liver area can be caused by many different conditions, some of which are serious, it is important for you to contact your health care provider to determine the underlying cause.
Liver pain is not something to be ignored. It could be a sign of a serious health condition. Therefore it is important to know where it is and what it does in the body. Your liver is located near your abdomen on the right side,actually beneath your ribs and above your diaphragm which separates the chest and the abdomen. The obvious answer would be ‘in the liver’. But there is more to it than just ‘in the liver’. Liver pain location: Liver pain is easily confused with abdominal pain, kidney pain or back pain due to its location. It is felt in the upper-right quadrant beneath your rib cage.
The liver is an abdominal glandular organ in the digestive system. It is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, under the diaphragm. The liver is a vital organ that supports nearly every other organ to some capacity. Liver pain is felt in the upper right area of the abdomen, just below the ribs. Usually, it is a dull, vague pain though it can sometimes be quite severe and may cause a backache. Sometimes people perceive it as pain in the right shoulder
The liver is a large, reddish-brown organ that sits mainly in the upper right portion of the abdomen above the stomach and below the diaphragm. Weighing around 1.3 kg in females and 1.8 kg in males, the liver is the largest solid organ in the body. Pain in the right upper abdomen. Pain and discomfort may be felt in the upper right side of the abdomen where the liver is located. Pain may be caused by the liver growing in size due to the accumulation of fat, acute inflammation or any injury that can expand and stretch the sensitive membrane covering the liver.
Liver pain is far different from kidney, back or abdominal pain and is usually felt in a dull nature at the upper right quadrant beneath the rib cage. At times the nature of the pain in the liver may be really sharp and can be accompanied by a back pain. The accumulation of excees fat in the liver causes it to swell leading to a disease called steatosis and its further inflammation inflicting damage on the liver leads to steatohepatitis. A fatty liver is primarily caused by factors such as the consumption of alcohol beyond permissible limits, obesity or diabetes.