MAGNETRON SPUTTERING. The diode sputtering example given above has proven to be a useful technique in the deposition of thin films when the cathode is covered with source material (sputtering target). A modular magnet array is a special magnetron sputtering source feature developed by AJA International, Inc. in 1991 to allow the end user to convert the specific magnetic field of the source to a variety of configurations.
Sputtering from a linear collision cascade. The thick line illustrates the position of the surface, and the thinner lines the ballistic movement paths of the atoms from beginning until they stop in the material. Physical sputtering has a well-defined minimum energy threshold equal to or larger than the ion energy at which the maximum energy transfer of the ion to a sample atom equals the binding energy of a surface atom. This threshold typically is somewhere in the range 10–100 eV.
Full Definition of SPUTTER. transitive verb. 1. : to spit or squirt from the mouth with explosive sounds. 2. 3. : to dislodge (atoms) from the surface of a material by collision with high energy particles; also: to deposit (a metallic film) by such a process. intransitive verb. 1. 
On an atomic level, sputtering is the process whereby atoms of a target or source material is bombarded by high energy particles in a vacuum environment that “knocks off” or “sputters” atoms that are deposited as a thin film onto a substrate-such as a silicon wafer, solar panel or optical device... Read More. Whatever you are looking for in a sputtering system there is probably a more advanced Semicore version that is tested, proven and stable and will give you more for your money. When you think you have found what you are looking for be sure to check with Semicore to ensure you are getting all you can.
Sputtering is a process whereby particles are ejected from a solid target material due to bombardment of the target by energetic particles. It only happens when the kinetic energy of the incoming particles is much higher than conventional thermal energies (≫ 1 eV). Physical sputtering has a well-defined minimum energy threshold equal to or larger than the ion energy at which the maximum energy transfer of the ion to a sample atom equals the binding energy of a surface atom. This threshold typically is somewhere in the range 10–100 eV.
Magnetron sputtering is a plasma coating process whereby sputtering material is ejected due to bombardment of ions to the target surface. The vacuum chamber of the PVD coating machine is filled with an inert gas, such as argon. Magnetic fields Magnetron sputtering is somewhat different from general sputtering technology. The difference is that magnetron sputtering technology uses magnetic fields to keep the plasma in front of the target, intensifying the bombardment of ions. A highly dense plasma is the result of this PVD coat
Sputtering is the thin film deposition manufacturing process at the core of today’s semiconductors, disk drives, CDs, and optical devices industries. Magnetron sputtering uses magnets behind the negative cathode to trap electrons over the negatively charged target material so they are not free to bombard the substrate, allowing for faster deposition rates. The most common magnetron cathode/target shapes are circular and rectangular.
Sputtering is the preferred vacuum deposition technique used by manufacturers of semiconductors, CDs, disk drives, and optical devices. Sputtered films exhibit excellent uniformity, density, purity and adhesion. 
A magnetron sputtering source is a tool to deposit thin film that mounts to a vacuum chamber by means of either flanges or feedthroughs and consists of a water cooled cathode/target holder with an embedded magnet array and appropriate grounded shielding. A modular magnet array is a special magnetron sputtering source feature developed by AJA International, Inc. in 1991 to allow the end user to convert the specific magnetic field of the source to a variety of configurations.
Sputter deposition is a physical vapor deposition (PVD) method of thin film deposition by sputtering. This involves ejecting material from a target that is a source onto a substrate such as a silicon wafer. For efficient momentum transfer, the atomic weight of the sputtering gas should be close to the atomic weight of the target, so for sputtering light elements neon is preferable, while for heavy elements krypton or xenon are used.