Always test the absorbency of your granite before you apply a sealer. There are many varieties of granite, and a large percentage of them are actively harmed by sealer. That said, if your granite does absorb water or oil rapidly, a penetrating sealer will make maintenance much easier. Warnings. 1  No impregnating or penetrating sealer is stain-proof.. 2  They are designed to give you time to wipe up spills before the counter is damaged. 3  An actual, stain-proof top sealer is a terrible option for granite counters, as stone needs to breathe to prevent cracking and other damage.
Ad. 2. Clean stains and spills from your marble countertop immediately. If you do not clean up stains and spills right away, the substances may soak completely into your marble. 1  Use a soft, household sponge and warm water to remove spills and stains. 2. Pour the sealer directly onto the surface of the marble countertop. 1  If your countertop has a large surface area, you may want to treat small sections once at a time to make the sealing process easier or more efficient.
Granite is very different than marble countertops or limestone countertops, so first make sure you are dealing with granite. You can test your stone to see if it needs sealer by putting a few drops of lemon juice in an inconspicuous place. Soap Film On Granite Countertops. If you have cleaned your granite tops with dish soap, you can remove the soap film buildup with MB- 3 Soap Film Remover. Simply spray on and wipe away soap buildup. This will return the shine to your granite tops.
Two Methods: Marble Cleaning Techniques Application of Sealers. To protect your marble countertop from becoming stained, scratched, and permanently damaged by harmful chemicals, you must clean and seal the marble on a routine basis. 2. Pour the sealer directly onto the surface of the marble countertop. 1  If your countertop has a large surface area, you may want to treat small sections once at a time to make the sealing process easier or more efficient.
When you apply a sealer to your countertop, the sealer will soak into the inside of the marble and protect the countertop from liquids and other substances that may absorb into the marble. 2. Pour the sealer directly onto the surface of the marble countertop. 1  If your countertop has a large surface area, you may want to treat small sections once at a time to make the sealing process easier or more efficient.
Sealing Granite Countertops. Although most granite countertops don't need to be sealed, it does help the stone resist dirt and spills, which can cause etching and staining [source: Marble Institute of America ]. By its nature, granite is moisture-resistant -- however, it's also porous. Sealants block liquids from seeping into the granite. Generally, you should seal most kitchen granite countertops annually. Keep in mind that different pieces of granite have different porosities. Some countertop areas may need to be sealed more often than others.
Sealing your granite is one of the many things you just need to put up with if you want to own this type of countertop. When you think about it, it really should come as no surprise that granite needs to be sealed. It is like any other organic material. Wood has its grain, stone has its porosity. 
There is no such thing as a safe, stain-proof sealer for granite, but a good sealer will give you the time you need to wipe up spills before they are absorbed. Note that sealing has nothing to do with how shiny your countertops are; this is caused by polishing. Ad. Warnings. 1  No impregnating or penetrating sealer is stain-proof.. 2  They are designed to give you time to wipe up spills before the counter is damaged. 3  An actual, stain-proof top sealer is a terrible option for granite counters, as stone needs to breathe to prevent cracking and other damage.
You don't want a Granite for your kitchen counter tops that's too absorbent nor do you want a Granite that's mixed with calcite-the main ingredient of marble and some limestone. If there's even a little calcite in the stone or another mineral that's sensitive to acids, your granite may react negatively. 1 This Granite is mixed with calcite or other acid sensitive minerals and maintenance will be a nightmare! 2  If the stone surface turns dark almost immediately, you do not want this Granite for your kitchen counter tops.