Every harp comes with a tuning key that you use to adjust each string. When you pluck a string with your finger, the electronic tuner will tell you whether that string is flat (too low in pitch), sharp (too high), or just right. You then use your tuning key to adjust the string until the tuner says that it is in tune.
Is harp more difficult than piano? About the same, maybe a little easier. Piano uses all 10 fingers, and harp only uses 8. On piano, you have to understand more theory about when to use the black keys than you do on harp, which uses levers or pedals that often don’t change through an entire song. Both instruments require you to use two hands to play two sets of notes.
Most lever harps and pedal harps are played with the soft part-sides or tips-of your thumb and first three fingers (the little finger is too small and weak to pluck with. ) When playing a lever or pedal harp, fingernails must be kept short.
1 Bringing the fingers all the way into the palm can help the fingers stay loose and fluid when playing. 2  Using a chair that is the wrong height for the harp-Using a chair that is too low or too high can lead to slouching, leaning too much of the harp's weight against you, or having your arms held too high.
Nails are used on the Paraguayan harp (right hand), in wire-strung technique, and in some Celtic and Early music technique. If you stick with me, I will do my best to help you maintain a comfortable hand position, but I do not have experience teaching or playing with nails.
1 If you have a lever harp, be sure all levers are disengaged. 2  With your lever harp, you will probably first tune to the key of C Major. 3  That is, A strings will be As, the B strings will be Bs, Cs will be Cs, etc. 4  Later you can tune your lever harp with some notes flat to make it easier to play songs in other keys.
This is especially true if you wish to try the ancient technique of playing wire strings with your nails instead of the pads of your fingers. For a list of wire-harp and cross-strung method books, go to the wire harp section of our harp books page.