Lard is animal (pig) fat, and shortening is vegetable fat. Lard is not used much anymore because it is very high in saturated fat. It is great for pie crust--makes a very flaky crust. I don't think I would use it for icing--it can have a distinct flavor of its own.
Summary: 1. Lard is made out of animal fat. Shortening is made out of a variety of different oils which are derived from plants and vegetables in the same manner as it is derived when making oil. 2. Shortening is commonly used only for cooking and baking. On the other hand, lard is used for a variety of ways such as the manufacturing of soap, cosmetic products and even biofuel to power motor vehicles. 3. Between the two, shortening is the one used in the baking of gluten-free products instead of lard.
Lard. Many types of shortening are prepared from lard and then it is a good substitute. You should use 2 tbsp. of lard, when 1 cup shortening is required in a recipe. Note: Lard can impart the flavor of the finished product, so it is better to try a small dish to see if you can enjoy the taste or not.
Crisco Butter Flavor Shortening performs the same as Crisco All-Vegetable Shortening, but adds a rich buttery flavor to foods. For your convenience, Crisco shortening is also available in easy-to-measure sticks in both original and butter flavor.
Generally, you can use butter or margarine in place of shortening, but making this substitution may slightly alter the texture of baked goods. Shortening is 100 percent fat, but butter and margarine are composed of about 85 percent fat and 15 percent water.
1. Lard is made out of animal fat. Shortening is made out of a variety of different oils which are derived from plants and vegetables in the same manner as it is derived when making oil.
Vegetable shortening and lard can be substituted for butter in some recipes, particularly in baking. They both have a high fat content and a similar consistency to room-temperature butter. However, some bakers prefer one over the other because each produces a different taste and texture in finished products.