vitamin d and heartburn. by: steve. i read on one of the posts that they were taking tums and other antacids with d3, could i advise people to read up on the chemical reaction of mixing d3 and any antacids. it is a bad mix apparently and can cause anything from nausea to death.
ANSWER: Vitamin D does not cause heartburn. More Info: There is very little evidence to show that Vitamin D causes heartburn. However, excessive doses of Vitamin D does have side effects which can be mild or serious, depending on the amount of overdose.
This COULD cause an indigestion like experience. So, the BEST choice for a Vitamin D Supplement is one that is made with Vitamin D3 and is prepared either 'Dry' without oil or is prepared with coconut oil (also called MCT or medium chain triglycerides) that doesn't go rancid.
Heartburn causes a mild to severe burning sensation in your throat or your chest. There are several remedies for treating heartburn symptoms including the use of over-the-counter medications, like antacids. Additional minerals and vitamins such as vitamin D may contribute to treating heartburn.
Avoid bedtime intake: For relief of gerd, avoid spicy & greasy foods, tomato-foods, mints, alcohol, tobacco, caffeine, chocolate, late night meals (& yes even vitamins!) before bed. Doctor can distinguish acid versus non-acid causes of reflux & rule out motility problems of the esophagus & stomach.
There can be unpleasant side effects from vitamins. Some vitamins are responsible for causing indigestion, which can include bloating, gas, heartburn, diarrhea or constipation. Before eliminating the vitamin, you may find it beneficial to adjust the dose you are taking. If any of the symptoms are severe, seek the advice of a health professional.
One study however shows that taking calcium supplements containing vitamin D can cause gastritis, especially when such supplements are taken in between meals. The symptoms of gastritis simulate that of rebound acid production, which feels like heartburn. But the incidence of this is very low.