In geometry, the diameter of a circle is any straight line segment that passes through the center of the circle and whose endpoints lie on the circle. It can be also defined as the longest chord of the circle. Both definitions are also valid for the diameter of a sphere.
Radius, chord and diameter are different types of line segments that are defined in relation to a circle.A radius of a circle is the line segment joining the center of the circle and any point on the circle.
1. If you know the radius of the circle, double it to get the diameter. The radius is the distance from the center of the circle to its edge. For example, if the radius of the circle is 4 cm, then the diameter of the circle is 4 cm x 2, or 8 cm.
The diameter of a circle is the distance from a point on the circle to a point radians away, and is the maximum distance from one point on a circle to another. The diameter of a sphere is the maximum distance between two antipodal points on the surface of the sphere. If is the radius of a circle or sphere, then.
Radius and diameter are the first vocabulary learned by you related to circles. The radius or the diameter determines the size of a circle. A circle is defined to be the set of all points in a plane that are equidistant from a fixed point called the center of the circle.
The diameter of a circle is the length of the line through the center and touching two points on its edge. In the figure above, drag the orange dots around and see that the diameter never changes. Sometimes the word 'diameter' is used to refer to the line itself.
diameter-a straight line connecting the center of a circle with two points on its perimeter (or the center of a sphere with two points on its surface). straight line-a line traced by a point traveling in a constant direction; a line of zero curvature; the shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
Diameter. The diameter of a circle is the distance from a point on the circle to a point radians away, and is the maximum distance from one point on a circle to another. The diameter of a sphere is the maximum distance between two antipodal points on the surface of the sphere. If is the radius of a circle or sphere, then.