You can sign up for free Part A (if you’re eligible) any time during or after your Initial Enrollment Period starts. Your coverage start date will depend on when you sign up. If you have to buy Part A and/or Part B, you can only sign up during a valid enrollment period.
Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note.
See Also: Special Report on Navigating Medicare. You can sign up as early as three months before the month in which you turn 65 and as late as three months after your 65th-birthday month. To avoid any delay in coverage, enroll before you turn 65, says Joe Baker, of the Medicare Rights Center.
In most cases, if you don’t sign up for Medicare Part B when you’re first eligible, you’ll have to pay a late enrollment penalty for as long as you have Part B and could have a gap in your health coverage.
The Initial Enrollment Period (IEP) is the first time you can sign up for Medicare. You may join Medicare Parts A, B, C and D during this time: 1  The 3 months before your 65th birthday, 2  The month of your birthday, and. 3  The 3 months after your birthday.
You can sign up for Medicare beginning three months before you turn 65, and coverage can start as soon as the first day of your birthday month. The initial enrollment period lasts until three months after your 65th birthday.
You can enroll in Medicare as early as three months before the month you turn 65 and up to three months after the month you turn 65.
1. During your Initial Enrollment Period. Your first chance to sign up for Medicare starts three months before your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn 65, and ends three months after the month you turn 65. These seven months are called the
The initial enrollment period for Medicare consists of the three months before, the month of, and the three months after your 65th birthday. If you want your coverage to start the month you turn 65, sign up during that first three-month period.
For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65.