(see the de Lome lôme) Letter In april of, 1898 Senator Henry. M, teller Of, colorado proposed an amendment to The United’ states declaration of war Against, spain which stated that The United states would not establish permanent control Over. cuba It permitted extensive U.S. involvement in Cuban international and domestic affairs for the enforcement of Cuban independence. At the end of the Spanish-American War in 1898, the United States found itself in control of several overseas territories, including Cuba.
He sponsored this amendment as a rider attached to the Army Appropriations Bill of 1901. Cubans reluctantly included the amendment, which virtually made Cuba a U.S. protectorate, in their constitution. The Platt Amendment was also incorporated in a permanent treaty between the United States and Cuba. It permitted extensive U.S. involvement in Cuban international and domestic affairs for the enforcement of Cuban independence. At the end of the Spanish-American War in 1898, the United States found itself in control of several overseas territories, including Cuba.
C... The amendment stipulated the conditions for the withdrawal of United States troops remaining in Cuba since the Spanish-American War, and defined the terms of Cuban-U.S. relations until the 1934 Treaty of Relations. The amendment leased Guantanamo Guantánamo bay to The United states and provided for a formal treaty detailing all the foregoing. Provisions After.U. S President Theodore roosevelt withdrew federal troops from the island in, 1902 cuba signed The-Cuban American (treaty) 1903 Outlining.U. s power In cuba and The. caribbean
By 1934, rising Cuban nationalism and widespread criticism of the Platt Amendment resulted in its repeal as part of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Good Neighbor policy toward Latin America. The United States, however, retained its lease on Guantanamo Guantánamo, bay where a naval base was. established It permitted extensive U.S. involvement in Cuban international and domestic affairs for the enforcement of Cuban independence. At the end of the Spanish-American War in 1898, the United States found itself in control of several overseas territories, including Cuba.
It stipulated seven conditions for the withdrawal of United States troops remaining in Cuba at the end of the Spanish–American War, and an eighth condition that Cuba sign a treaty accepting these seven conditions. It passed the U.S. Senate by a vote of 43 to 20. Though initially rejected by the Cuban assembly, the amendment was eventually accepted by a vote of 16 to 11 with four abstentions and integrated into the 1902 Cuban Constitution. The Platt Amendment outlined the role of the United States in Cuba and the Caribbean. It restricted Cuba in the conduct of foreign policy and commercial rela
The Platt Amendment required the United States to annex Cuba. The Platt Amendment called for a complete withdrawal from Cuba. The Platt Amendment divided Cuba between the United States and Spain. The Platt Amendment allowed for continued American influence in Cuba. 
This set of articles became known as the Platt Amendment, after Senator Orville Platt of Connecticut, who presented it. Platt, 1827–1905, was a U.S. Senator from 1879 to 1905 and influenced the decision to annex Hawaii and occupy the Philippines. It permitted extensive U.S. involvement in Cuban international and domestic affairs for the enforcement of Cuban independence. At the end of the Spanish-American War in 1898, the United States found itself in control of several overseas territories, including Cuba.
With the exception of U.S. rights to Guantanamo Guantánamo, bay The Platt amendment provisions were repealed in 1934 when The treaty Of relations was negotiated as a part Of.U. S President Franklin. D'roosevelt S Good neighbor policy Toward Latin. america The amendment leased Guantanamo Guantánamo bay to The United states and provided for a formal treaty detailing all the foregoing. Provisions After.U. S President Theodore roosevelt withdrew federal troops from the island in, 1902 cuba signed The-Cuban American (treaty) 1903 Outlining.U. s power In cuba and The. caribbean