Vomiting is a vital reflex controlled by the medulla oblongata LES relaxes-allowing stomach contents to move into the esophagus Diaphragm and abdominal muscles contract-squeezing the stomach & forcing contents upwards.   . Esophagus enters the abdominal cavity through an opening in the diaphragm. This opening becomes enlarged, stomach is pushed up into the thoracic cavity. Additional pressure causes the LES to relax. Stomach contents enter the esophagus Causes Heartburn Condition called GERD (gastro-esophageal reflux disease). 
Any time an internal body part pushes into an area where it doesn't belong, it's called a hernia. The hiatus is an opening in the diaphragm-the muscular wall separating the chest cavity from the abdomen. Normally, the esophagus goes through the hiatus and attaches to the stomach. In a hiatal hernia, the stomach bulges up into the chest through that opening. There are two main types of hiatal hernias: sliding and paraesophageal (next to the esophagus). In a sliding hiatal hernia, the stomach and the section of the esophagus that joins the stomach slide up into the chest through the hiatus
The diaphragm separates the thoracic cavity containing the heart and lungs, from the abdominal cavity and performs an important function in respiration: as the diaphragm contracts, the volume of the thoracic cavity increases and air is drawn into the lungs. 
The chest and the abdomen are separated by a large muscle called the diaphragm, the major breathing muscle. The upper part of the esophagus (food pipe) which is in the chest passes through the opening of the hiatus, leading into the stomach, located in the abdominal cavity. The stomach never enters the chest compartment (thoracic cavity). In a hiatal hernia, there can one of two occurrences. The stomach and the esophagus may prolapse into the chest resulting in sliding hiatal hernia.
In this article. Any time an internal body part pushes into an area where it doesn't belong, it's called a hernia. The hiatus is an opening in the diaphragm -- the muscular wall separating the chest cavity from the abdomen. Normally, the esophagus (food pipe) goes through the hiatus and attaches to the stomach. In a hiatal hernia (also called hiatus hernia) the stomach bulges up into the chest through that opening. There are two main types of hiatal hernias: sliding and paraesophageal (next to the esophagus).
Definition. Hiatal hernia is a condition where a portion of the stomach pushes into the chest through the hiatus (an opening in the diaphragm). This is generally seen in older and/or obese people. Normally the esophagus runs through the chest to join with the stomach in the abdominal cavity. The stomach never enters the chest compartment (thoracic cavity). In a hiatal hernia, there can one of two occurrences. The stomach and the esophagus may prolapse into the chest resulting in sliding hiatal hernia.
The esophagus, in the chest cavity, passes through an opening or hole in the diaphragm called the hiatus where the esophagus joins the stomach. A hiatal hernia results when a portion of the stomach protrudes or herniates upwards through the hole (hiatus) in the diaphragm and into the chest cavity. A sliding hiatal hernia is the most common. In a sliding hiatal hernia, the junction between the esophagus and stomach as well as a portion of the stomach itself, protrude above the diaphragm. The herniated portion of the stomach may slide back and forth into and out of
Hiatal Hernia. The muscular wall that separates the abdomen from the chest cavity has an opening in the diaphragm called the hiatus. The food pipe, or the esophagus, runs through the hiatus in order for it to drain into the stomach. When the stomach bulges up through the chest in that opening, a hiatus hernia, also called a hiatal hernia, may occur. The first type of hiatal hernia is called a sliding hiatal hernia. This is the most common type of hiatal hernia and is a result of the intersection of the esophagus herniates and stomach where they slide up into the chest through
The esophagus is a muscular tube about ten inches (25 cm.) long, extending from the hypopharynx to the stomach. The esophagus lies posterior to the trachea and the heart and passes through the mediastinum and the hiatus, an opening in the diaphragm, in its descent from the thoracic to the abdominal cavity. The esophagus has no serosal layer; tissue around the esophagus is called adventitia.
Hiatal hernia is a condition in which the upper portion of the stomach protrudes into the chest cavity through an opening of the diaphragm called the esophageal hiatus. This opening usually is large enough to accommodate the esophagus alone. 