Your body weight is one of the biggest factors that affects how many calories you burn -- so most calorie burn estimates are tied directly to a certain weight. For example, Harvard Health Publications estimates that if you weigh 185 pounds, you'll burn about 311 calories in half an hour of moderate rowing. If you weighed 135 pounds, you'd only burn 210 calories in the same amount of time.
Rowing on water vigorously burns 844 calories per hour if you weigh 155 pounds, according to a study by the Wisconsin Department of Health and Family Services. The same person burns 493 calories rowing moderately and 211 calories rowing lightly. Heavier people burn more calories. Rowing vigorously burns more calories than running at a pace of 9 minutes per mile, which is tied for seventh in the Harvard study. Rowing moderately burns fewer calories than running at a pace of 12 minutes per mile. Rowing lightly burns fewer calories than bowling and slow dancing. Rowing vigorously on a stationary rowing machine burns fewer calories than rowing vigorously on water -- 632 calories per hour if you’re 155 pounds, according the Harvard study. Running at a pace of 11.5 minutes per mile burns more calories
According to health and fitness experts, thirty minutes on rowing machine burns more calories than peddling a stationary cycle. A person can lose up to 210 calories after 30 minutes of moderate stationary rowing. Generally an hour spent on the machine burns over 600 calories. Calories burned by an average 130 lb female after vigorous half an hour rowing are little less, that is up to 260. This machine is also one of the best aerobic exercises. It increases your body metabolism, that helps you lose calories even when you are resting and when you are going through a muscle recovery.
Calorie Burn. According to Harvard Health Publications, rowing at a moderate pace for 30 minutes burns about 210 calories for a 125-pound individual and 311 calories for a 185-pound individual. For vigorous rowing, those numbers are 255 and 377, respectively. Using the calories burned calculator available on ExRx.net, 30 minutes of extreme rowing would burn almost 50 more calories for someone at 125 pounds and more than 70 additional calories for someone at 185 pounds
People who weigh 240 pounds can burn about 654 calories per hour rowing, according to MayoClinic.com, and can burn additional calories by bumping up the intensity level during their workouts. If you can’t exercise for a full hour, aim for at least 30 minutes to reap the cardiovascular benefits of rowing. According to Harvard Medical School, 125-pound individuals can burn 420 calories per hour rowing at a moderate pace, or 510 calories in one hour rowing at a vigorous intensity.
Save. You won't burn many calories if all you do on a rowing machine is scoot the seat back and forth. But with proper technique -- a strong leg drive, paired with body and arm engagement -- you stand to burn more than 700 calories per hour, depending on your body weight. (Wavebreakmedia Ltd/Wavebreak Media/Getty Images). For example, Harvard Health Publications estimates that if you weigh 185 pounds, you'll burn about 311 calories in half an hour of moderate rowing. If you weighed 135 pounds, you'd only burn 210 calories in the same amount of time.
If you weigh 185 pounds you’ll burn about 622 calories per hour rowing at a moderate pace, and about 754 calories in one hour rowing at a strenuous intensity, according to Harvard Medical School. According to Harvard Medical School, 125-pound individuals can burn 420 calories per hour rowing at a moderate pace, or 510 calories in one hour rowing at a vigorous intensity.
Considerations. The amount of calories you burn during exercise depends on a number of factors, so it can be difficult to gauge the exact amount. The amount of calories you burn will depend on the speed with which you row, the level of resistance the machine is set for and the length of time for which you row. rowing for an hour at a moderate intensity will burn 493 calories. The same man rowing for an hour at a light intensity would only burn 246 calories, while at a vigorous level he would burn 844.
To determine the number of calories burned per hour during your workout, Concept2 Performance Monitors use a formula based on a 175 pound individual. Use this calorie calculator to determine the true number of calories per hour you burn for your weight, as well as the total calorie burn for your workout. 