Sufferers of a disease which has been passed down from the Vikings have been given fresh hope with the development of a new treatment. Dupuytren's Disease affects the hands. It causes an abnormal thickening of the tissue just beneath the skin. This causes scar tissue to build up in the palm and can extend into the fingers. 
In early ages, a large fleet of Vikings invaded England and conquered the land for nearly 300 years. It is said that the Vikings were mainly responsible for the disease that spread across England which were also named after them – the Viking’s disease. Vikings disease is the shortening and hardening of tissues. Generally, this can be seen happening in the hands mostly but there are also cases that they occur between the sole of the foot and the toes. Other term for Vikings diseases in hands is the Dupuytren’s disease. The symptoms of Vikings disease is an uneven thickening of the skin on the hand between the palm and the fingers. It will later develop a dimple and when left untreated will then harden.
Dupuytren’s disease is a benign condition that affects the connective tissue between the palm of the hand and the fingers. It typically starts as a small nodule (lump) and generally affects the ring or little finger, but may appear throughout the palm and sometimes on the thumb. Other conditions treated. Benign conditions that can be treated with radiotherapy include: 1  Ledderhose disease – This is very similar to Dupuytren’s contracture, but affects the feet.
Ledderhose disease (plantar fibromatosis, Morbus Ledderhose). Ledderhose disease, also called Ledderhose's Disease (LD), plantar fibromas, or Morbus Ledderhose is a fibromatosis, like Dupuytren's contracture. When suffering from Ledderhose disease benign nodules grow at the arch of the foot
Plantar fascial fibromatosis, also known as Ledderhose's disease, Morbus Ledderhose, and plantar fibromatosis, is a relatively uncommon non-malignant thickening of the feet's deep connective tissue, or fascia. In the beginning, where nodules or cords start growing along tendons of the foot, the disease is minor. A similar disease is Dupuytren's disease, which affects the hand and causes bent hand or fingers. As in most forms of fibromatosis, it is usually benign and its onset varies with each patient. The nodules are typically slow growing and most often found in the central and medial portions of the plantar fascia.
1 Raynaud's phenomenon can occur with diseases that affect arteries, such as Buerger's disease in which the blood vessels of the hands and feet become inflamed. 2  Carpal tunnel syndrome. 3  The carpal tunnel is a narrow passage in your wrist that protects a major nerve to your hand. When it occurs without another disease present, it is called Raynaud's disease (or primary Raynaud's). This is the most common type and typically affects both hands and both feet. Although it can affect men, it most often occurs in women between 15 and 40.
Dupuytren's contracture (also known as morbus Dupuytren, or Dupuytren's disease and slang terms Viking disease or Celtic hand), is a fixed flexion contracture of the hand due to a palmar fibromatosis, where the fingers bend towards the palm and cannot be fully extended (straightened). Collagenase injection is a nonsurgical option to treat Dupuytren’s disease and it provides the benefits of avoiding the potential surgical complications such as nerve injury, hematoma and skin necrosis. Primary surgery reports a 5% incidence of nerve injury and 12% in second surgery.
Synonym(s): diploic vein. Dupuytren contracture-a disease of the palmar fascia resulting in thickening and shortening of fibrous bands on the palmar surface of the hand and fingers. Dupuytren diathesis. Dupuytren disease of the foot-nodular fibroblastic proliferation in plantar fascia of one or both feet. Synonym(s): plantar fibromatosis. Dupuytren enterotome. Dupuytren exostosis. Dupuytren fascia-the thickened, central portion of the fascia ensheathing the hand.
In Dupuytren's (say duh-pwee-TRAHNZ) disease, tissue under the skin in the palm of your hand, called the palmar fascia, gets thicker and shorter. This can cause your fingers to bend in toward your palm. It most often affects the ring and small fingers, usually of both hands. 