Pollution can be caused both by natural sources and humans. Volcanic eruptions are an example of natural sources of pollution. When a volcano explodes, it releases sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, solid particles, and other materials into the air at a much greater rate than is normally the case. Pollution refers to situations in which some material or some form of energy occurs in larger quantity than can be tolerated by humans, plants, or animals without suffering some kind of harm. Probably the best-known forms of pollution are air and water pollution, which are discussed below.
This in turn adds a little more to the greenhouse effect and therefore to global warming, providing an example of positive feedback. So, the essential difference is that anthropogenic sources increase the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases and create an enhanced greenhouse effect. The burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in industry, transport and the generation of electricity, which releases Carbon Dioxide (CO2).Methane released from cat … tle rearing as well as other agricultural practices.Carbon dioxide released from cement manufacturing.
By their nature, the air pollution sources can be classified, mainly, as physical, chemical and biological sources, secondly as natural and anthropogenic sources, further on climate change relevant or not. The physical pollution of the atmosphere is a consequence energy input like sound and heat energy. 
Burning oil, coal, gasoline and other fossil fuels is a major cause of man-made air pollution. Other man-made sources of air pollution include waste disposal, dry cleaning, paints, chemical manufacture, wood stoves and flour mills. Carbon dioxide and other gases trap heat in the atmosphere, causing global temperatures to rise. Although carbon dioxide has natural sources, such as volcanic eruptions, human activities have caused an increase from 280 parts per million before the development of industry to 370 parts per million today.
Carbon-14. An important difference between CO2 from natural sources and CO2 from fossil fuels is the age of the carbon it contains. Younger natural sources of CO2 are relatively rich in carbon-14. But since carbon-14 has a half-life of about 5,700 years, it can’t be found in fossil fuels that are millions of years old. A large diversity of gasses in the atmosphere influence air quality, climate change and the recovery of the ozone layer. Measuring the concentrations of these gases in the atmosphere is quite straightforward. But pinpointing wether the gasses are a natural occurrence or anthropogenic in nature is a lot more complicated.
Sources of air pollution. The major single source of air pollutants is the combustion (burning) of fossil fuels (coal, oil, and gas) to run industrial machines and generate electricity. All anthropogenic pollutants can be traced to some extent to this source. Pollution refers to situations in which some material or some form of energy occurs in larger quantity than can be tolerated by humans, plants, or animals without suffering some kind of harm. Probably the best-known forms of pollution are air and water pollution, which are discussed below.
The important greenhouse gases, water vapour, carbon dioxide, methane and ozone are naturally occurring, but can also be added to the atmosphere by human activities. The burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in industry, transport and the generation of electricity, which releases Carbon Dioxide (CO2).Methane released from cat … tle rearing as well as other agricultural practices.Carbon dioxide released from cement manufacturing.
Chapter 21 – Atmospheric Pollution. 1) Give three examples each of natural and anthropogenic air pollutants. First, volcanoes, fires and dust storms are natural polluters. The major constituents of the atmosphere are Nitrogen, Oxygen, Argon, Carbon Dioxide and water vapor (page 544). 
Methane is an important greenhouse gas that is emitted from multiple natural and anthropogenic sources. Atmospheric methane concentrations have varied on a number of timescales in the past, but what has caused these variations is not always well understood. 
Carbon dioxide. Source: Burning fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas. Methane. Source: Cattle emissions, farming practices, melting tundra, coal seam fracking. Water … Vapor. Source: Earth's water cycle. Water vapor does not contribute to global warming, just to the natural greenhouse effect. The burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in industry, transport and the generation of electricity, which releases Carbon Dioxide (CO2).Methane released from cat … tle rearing as well as other agricultural practices.Carbon dioxide released from cement manufacturing.