li·chen. An organism that consists of a fungus and an alga living together in a symbiotic relationship. The alga supplies nutrients by photosynthesis, while the fungus shades the alga from excessive sunlight and supplies water by absorbing water vapor from the air. 1. any complex organism of the group Lichenes, composed of a fungus in symbiotic union with an alga, most commonly forming crusty patches on rocks and trees. 2. any of various eruptive skin diseases. 3. to cover with or as if with lichens. līchēn leichḗn ].
A lichen is a composite organism that arises from algae or cyanobacteria (or both) living among filaments of a fungus in a symbiotic relationship. The combined life form has properties that are very different from the properties of its component organisms. Lichens come in many colors, sizes, and forms. A lichen is a composite organism that emerges from algae or cyanobacteria living among the filaments (hyphae) of a fungus in a mutually beneficial (symbiotic) relationship. The fungus benefits from the algae or cyanobacteria because they produce food by photosynthesis.
lichen. 1. an organism that is formed by the symbiotic association of a fungus and an alga or cyanobacterium and occurs as crusty patches or bushy growths on tree trunks, bare ground, etc. Lichens are now classified as a phylum of fungi (Mycophycophyta). 2.
Full Definition of LICHEN. 1. : any of several skin diseases characterized by a papular eruption. 2. : any of numerous complex plantlike organisms made up of an alga and a fungus growing in symbiotic association on a solid surface (as a rock). — li·chened \-kənd\ adjective. : any of several skin diseases characterized by the eruption of flat papules; especially: lichen planus. 2. : any of numerous complex plantlike organisms made up of an alga and a fungus growing in symbiotic association on a solid surface (as a rock).
lichen. n. 1. (Plants) an organism that is formed by the symbiotic association of a fungus and an alga or cyanobacterium and occurs as crusty patches or bushy growths on tree trunks, bare ground, etc. Lichens are now classified as a phylum of fungi (Mycophycophyta). 1. any complex organism of the group Lichenes, composed of a fungus in symbiotic union with an alga, most commonly forming crusty patches on rocks and trees. 2. any of various eruptive skin diseases. 3. to cover with or as if with lichens. līchēn leichḗn ].
The lesions (abnormal areas) on the skin in lichen planus are typically polygonal, flat (hence, the term planus), and pruritic (itchy). Occurs characteristically on the wrists, shins, lower back and genitalia. Involvement of the scalp may lead to hair loss. The cause(s) of lichen planus are unknown. 
Definition. Lichen planus is a skin condition of unknown origin that produces small, shiny, flat-topped, itchy pink or purple raised spots on the wrists, forearms or lower legs, especially in middle-aged patients. 1. any of certain plants formed by the mutualistic combination of an alga and a fungus. 2. any of various papular skin diseases in which the lesions are typically small, firm papules set very close together. lichen amyloido´sus a condition characterized by localized cutaneous amyloidosis.
noun. Lichen on tree bark. Lichen on tree bark. The definition of a lichen is a plant found on rocks or trees made of both a specific fungus and a specific algae that help one another. An example of a lichen is the colored patch growing on a tree branch