DA2PP is an acronym for the standard vaccine, also called “the distemper vaccine”, given to dogs and puppies throughout their lives as part of a preventative health program and considered, along with the Rabies vaccine, as a Core (very important) vaccine. D distemper. P Parainfluenza. 
DHPP is a combination vaccine for distemper, hepatitis, pavovirus and parainfluenza. Canine distemper is a virus that affects a dog's respiratory, gastrointestinal and central nervous system. There is no cure. Canine hepatitis attacks the liver, eyes and kidneys. Death can occur. DHPP. 
1 The canine distemper vaccine is typically given in some variation of a combination vaccine that also protects your pet from several other serious diseases, such as parvovirus infection. Typically, the rabies vaccine is administered to pets in a separate injection at the same time as the canine distemper combination vaccine. However, the rabies vaccine can also be given alone (at a separate visit) or at the same time as other vaccines (such as the Lyme disease vaccine).
Because infectious canine hepatitis is covered by adenovirus type 1, an H is sometimes used instead of A (for just adenovirus type 1) or A2 (for both type 1 and type 2), to show that hepatitis is covered (as in DHPP). In DA2PPC, the C indicates canine coronavirus. This vaccine is usually given to puppies at 8 weeks of age, followed by 12 weeks of age, and then 16 weeks of age. This vaccine is given again at 1 year of age and then annually, or every 3 years. Some veterinarians' recommended vaccine schedules may differ from this. DA2PPC does not include Bordetella.
Nobivac ® Canine 1-DAPPv. Proven 1-year vaccine that offers broad protection against canine parvovirus (CPV), adenovirus type 1 (hepatitis) and type 2 (respiratory disease), parainfluenza, and distemper. Features and benefits. Protects against all known strains of CPV, including CPV-2c. 1  High antigenic mass (titer), low passage parvovirus vaccine.
Nobivac ® Canine 1-DAPPv (Galaxy DA2PPv) is recommended for the vaccination of healthy dogs against diseases caused by canine Distemper, Adenovirus Type 1 (Hepatitis), Adenovirus Type 2 (Respiratory Disease), Parainfluenza, and Parvovirus. Protects against all known strains of Parvo. 
Most puppies need at least three DAPP vaccines, two Bordetella vaccines, and one rabies vaccine during these visits to be protected for a full year. The next vaccine visit should occur approximately one year after the last puppy shots were given. Other vaccines are available but should only be considered under special circumstances. Often, protection against several diseases is offered in a single inoculation. For example, a DAPP vaccine protects against distemper, adenovirus, parvovirus and parainfluenza.
What is the DHPP vaccine Commonly called the canine distemper vaccine, this is the most common combination vaccine given to dogs. Giving a distemper/parvo combination vaccine is essential for the health of puppies. Shortly after puppies are born, they receive immunity to many diseases from their mother s milk (called colostrum). As the puppy matures, this immunity fades.
DHPP, DAPP, DA2PP, and DAPPC are not the same. The names are often used interchangeably but they are different. Distemper, adenovirus type 1 (thus hepatitis), parainfluenza, and parvovirus are covered by all 4. DHPP covers adenovirus type 1 and may or may not cover adenovirus type 2. And only DAPPC covers coronavirus. This vaccine is usually given to puppies at 8 weeks of age, followed by 12 weeks of age, and then 16 weeks of age. This vaccine is given again at 1 year of age and then annually, or every 3 years. Some veterinarians' recommended vaccine schedules may differ from this. DA2PPC does not include Bordetella.