Report Abuse. a picthing wedge is 48 deg, a gap wedge is 52 deg, a sand wedge 56 deg and a lob wedge is 60 deg. there are some clubs that are say 54 deg but that would be a strong sandwedge. the above are the standard degrees for clubs. 4 degrees between each. Best Answer: Generally the 'normal' range for a sand wedge is 54-56 degrees loft. I have a 55 degree but I'm not sure they are that common.
The pitching wedge has a bounce of angle of between 0-5 degrees. The gap wedge has a bounce angle between 5-12 degrees. The sand wedge has a bounce angle between 10-16 degrees, and the loft wedge has a bounce angle between 0-10 degrees. Wedges are used for a wide variety of shots close to the green. Most players carry three wedges: the pitching wedge, the sand wedge, and either the gap wedge or the loft wedge. And the loft wedge has 58-60 degrees of loft. The lob wedge has about 64 degrees of loft. Gene Sarazen invented the sand wedge over 70 years ago. Bounce angle is another difference between wedges.
Bounce Angle. Most golfers understand that wedges differ by loft-typically from a 45 degree pitching wedge up to as high as 64 degrees for the most extremely lofted lob wedge. 
A pitching wedge is the lowest-lofted of the named wedges, used to hit a variety of short-range shots. The modern pitching wedge has a loft of around 48° (exact lofts vary by clubmaker and player preference) and little or no bounce (angle of the sole to the ground). The pitching wedge is descended from the niblick, an obsolete blade-style club with a high loft. The modern sand wedge still uses the ideas of high mass, high loft, and bounce angle, but the modern sand wedge clubhead has much higher mass than earlier designs, up to 40oz (2.5 lb, 1.13 kg), to drive the clubhead through the firmer sand found in many courses.
Pitching wedges can also have between zero and 10 degrees of bounce, though most pitching wedges have very low bounce (only 2 or 3 degrees) as other wedges like gap wedges or sand wedges are more traditionally suited for play out of hazards or soft lies where high bounce is desired. This is for a number of reasons: first, before the term wedge became common for high-loft short irons, the pitching wedge was actually numbered as the 10-iron of a matched set, and to this day it follows the normal loft progression of the numbered irons.
Manufacturers offer five basic wedges, and loft is the major difference between them: The pitching wedge has 45-48 degrees of loft. The gap wedge has 50-54 degrees of loft. The sand wedge, used primarily for getting out of bunkers, has 56 degrees of loft. And the loft wedge has 58-60 degrees of loft. The lob wedge has about 64 degrees of loft. Gene Sarazen invented the sand wedge over 70 years ago. Bounce angle is another difference between wedges.
Significance. For most of the 20th century the pitching wedge had approximately 50 degrees of loft. In the past 10 years lofts of all irons have been decreased because of perimeter weighting, center of gravity and the ability to fly farther. Now the average loft of a new pitching wedge is 46 degrees. In the early 1900's a pitching wedge was referred to as a lofter and had between 40 and 50 degrees of loft. Shortly thereafter, sets of golf clubs were given numbers, and the modern-day pitching wedge was called a 10-iron. Now a set of irons will include a pitching wedge with a loft of between 45 and 48 degrees.
I've seem most pitching wedge at 45 degree. That is why some poeple goes for additional 52-56- and 60 wedges to reduce gaps as usually 56 is the normal sand wedge. 52 wedge can then be a stop gap between pitching and sand, and 60 is of course used to be very popular for a while for shot chips and around the green. Hopes that helps.
The lob wedge has the greatest loft at 58 degrees or higher. The sand wedge has the next greatest loft -- approximately 56 to 58 degrees -- while the gap wedge fills the gap between the pitching wedge and sand wedge with lofts of between 50 and 54 degrees. According to Golf Digest, the standard loft of a pitching wedge has dropped over the years. Formerly, a pitching wedge typically had a loft of approximately 51 degrees. Today, however, pitching wedges most often have lofts ranging from 45 to 47 degrees, though they can be as high as 50 degrees.
A pitching wedge is a wedge used to hit a shot with higher and shorter trajectory than a 9-iron and a lower and longer trajectory than a gap wedge. This is for a number of reasons: first, before the term wedge became common for high-loft short irons, the pitching wedge was actually numbered as the 10-iron of a matched set, and to this day it follows the normal loft progression of the numbered irons.