I don't think that you can reduce it to a precise temperature. The correct serving temperature for raw items is whatever they warm up to in the time between the itamae taking the fish out of the refrigerator and the sushi making it to my plate moments later. That will often be below 64 degrees. I eat sushi all the time and my feeling is the colder the better for the fish, but I really could care less what temperature the rice is. The answer for overall sushi serving temerature is in fact 18 degrees celsius or 64 degrees fahrenheit, at least that's what most people say. Reply.
Push the tip of the meat thermometer gently into the middle of the salmon fillet at its thickest part. Ideally, start checking the internal temperature a few minutes before the salmon fillet should be done cooking -- this prevents you from overcooking the fish. Once your salmon is cooked, clean the meat thermometer with hot water and soap to prevent cross-contamination. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact. When contaminated fish is consumed, it can lead to a variety of food-borne illnesses.
1 Heating foods to the right temperature for the proper amount of time kills harmful bacteria, so cook meat, poultry, fish, and eggs thoroughly. 2  Use a food thermometer to be sure, and visit http://1.usa.gov/PYdp6X for a safe food temperature list. 1 Use a food thermometer to check. 2  Serve or keep food hot in chafing dishes, slow cookers, and warming trays. 3  Be aware that some warmers only hold food at 110° F to 120° F, so check the product label to make sure your warmer has the capability to hold foods at 140° F or warmer.
I understand sushi rice is kept and served at room temperature, but the fish has always been cool when it arrived to my table (I'm not much for sitting at the bar). After asking a few opinions, it seems this is not a cut-and-dry answer. I eat sushi all the time and my feeling is the colder the better for the fish, but I really could care less what temperature the rice is. The answer for overall sushi serving temerature is in fact 18 degrees celsius or 64 degrees fahrenheit, at least that's what most people say. Reply.
Sushi. The essence of sushi is raw (or cooked) fish, shellfish, egg, tofu or vegetables served with vinegared rice. (Raw fish served by itself is sashimi). There are several forms which sushi takes; the two main styles are nigiri-sushi and maki-sushi. Nigiri-sushi is a finger of rice moulded in the hand with a topping such as a small fillet of fish or tamago-yaki (omelette flavoured with dashi stock).
If taking cooked fish to be served at another location, be sure to pack the fish so it maintains the proper temperatures. If you are keeping it hot, it should maintain at least a 140°F temperature and if it is cold, it must be kept at or below 40°F. Never leave the fish at room temperature for more than two hours. Store it in a shallow covered container to allow the fish to cool to the proper temperature more quickly. Cooked fish can be stored for up to 2 to 3 days in a refrigerator at 40°F or less.
Cooked Fish Leftovers: Cooked leftovers should be cooled and refrigerated as soon as possible, limiting the amount of time the fish is exposed to room temperatures. Never leave the fish at room temperature for more than two hours. Store it in a shallow covered container to allow the fish to cool to the proper temperature more quickly. Cooked fish can be stored for up to 2 to 3 days in a refrigerator at 40°F or less. If leftovers are not going to be used within this time, they can be frozen and stored for up to one month
1 When storing in a refrigerator, be sure the temperature is 40°F or less. 2  Do not allow cooked fish to sit at room temperature for more than 2 hours. 3  DO NOT REFREEZE FISH THAT HAS BEEN THAWED. 4  Be sure all packages are marked with the content and the date it was frozen. Never leave the fish at room temperature for more than two hours. Store it in a shallow covered container to allow the fish to cool to the proper temperature more quickly. Cooked fish can be stored for up to 2 to 3 days in a refrigerator at
1 If stuffing a whole fish, add it to the cavity of the fish. 2  Place the whole fish or pieces in an oiled baking pan. 3  If baking oily fish, it should be placed on an oiled rack so it is not setting in the juices as it bakes. 4  Baste the fish with a mixture of 1/2 cup of melted butter and 1 tablespoon of lemon juice. When cooking fish, care must be taken not to overcook the fillet, steak, or whole fish, which results in dry and somewhat tasteless meat. A general rule is to cook a fish 10 minutes for each inch of thickness. The 10 minute rule should not be used for deep-frying or microwaving fish.