This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Dental Assistant in Grand Rapids, MI that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Dental Assistant in Grand Rapids are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Job Description for Dental Assistant. Assists with oral surgery and other procedures under the direct supervision of a dentist. Prepares and arranges needed tools and instruments for scheduled procedures. Hands necessary tools and equipment to the dentist and provides assistance during treatment.
Home to some of the best pay for Dental Assistants, Seattle offers exceptional salaries, 24 percent above the national average. Dental Assistants can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Charlotte (+17 percent), New York (+10 percent), Atlanta (+6 percent), and Chicago (+2 percent). Dental Assistants do not generally earn higher incomes from more experience in the field. Salaries for the relatively untried average out to around $28K, but survey participants with five to 10 years of experience earn a significantly higher median of $33K. For Dental Assistants, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $37K
The salary for someone with the job title Dental Assistant in Grand Rapids, MI varies depending on a number of factors. Job Description for Dental Assistant. Assists with oral surgery and other procedures under the direct supervision of a dentist. Prepares and arranges needed tools and instruments for scheduled procedures. Hands necessary tools and equipment to the dentist and provides assistance during treatment.
New Search Michigan dental assistant SalariesNew SearchWithin Michigan there is a lot of variation in dental assistant Salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. 
$59,000. Average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings in Michigan are 1% higher than average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The average salary for a dental assistant in Baton Rouge, Louisiana  is 51,000 US dollars per year. With experience, the pay scale is  likely to increase over time. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average salary of a dental assistant starting out is about$12-16 per hour, sometimes higher in dental specialties such as oral surgery or endodontics. Also, the more experience you have the higher your salary
$61,000. Average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings in Detroit, MI are 4% higher than average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide. Dental Assistant in Detroit, MI. Average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings in Detroit, MI are 4% higher than average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide.