An overview of Hepatitis C: Hepatitis C is a disease that is caused by a virus in which affects your liver. Over time it can cause permanent liver damage, liver cancer, and even liver damage. Most people are unaware that they have hepatitis C until it has already caused some damage to their liver. Hepatitis C is spread through the contact of an infected person blood. Hepatitis C is caused from the hepatitis C virus. The most common way to receive hepatitis C is from sharing needles and any other equipment you may use to take illegal drugs.
Hepatitis C. Infectious liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus for which there is no vaccine and which commonly becomes chronic. Now the most common cause of cirrhosis in the United States. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and National Library of Medicine). Hepatitis C virus can cause damage to the liver usually in an insidious manner (chronic hepatitis C infection). Sometimes, the liver damage can be so severe that the liver is not able to carry out the normal functions, resulting in liver failure.
Hepatitis C is a disease caused by a virus that infects the liver. The virus, called the Hepatitis C virus or HCV for short, is just one of the hepatitis viruses. The other common hepatitis viruses are A and B, which differ somewhat from HCV in the way they are spread and treated. 
Hepatitis C is caused by a virus that is passed through contact with the blood of an infected person. The infection leads to inflammation of the liver. The liver processes blood and filter toxins so they don’t cause damage to your body. Learn the Effects of Hepatitis C on the Body. Hepatitis C is a viral disease that primarily causes inflammation of the liver, but the effects can be felt throughout the body. Hepatitis C causes inflammation of the liver. Over time, this leads to scarring and severe damage to the liver and its functions.
It is caused by the virus HCV (hepatitis C Virus). The liver can swell and become damaged. In hepatitis C, unlike hepatitis B, liver cancer risk is only increased in people with cirrhosis and only 20% of hep C patients get cirrhosis. Most liver damage is caused by 3 hepatitis viruses, called hepatitis A, B and C. However, hepatitis can also be caused by alcohol and some other toxins and infections, as well as from our own autoimmune process (the body attacks itself).
Cause. Hepatitis C is a liver disease that is caused by infection with the hepatitis C virus, a virus that lives in your liver cells. 
This inflammation can be caused by contagious diseases such as viral infections. Hepatitis can also be caused by exposure to alcohol, certain medications, chemicals, poisons, and other toxins, or by other diseases. hepatitis C (HCV) is one of the many viruses that can cause inflammation of the liver. Inflammation of the liver caused by infection with HCV is referred to as hepatitis C. 1  If the infection does not resolve, it becomes chronic (ongoing, long term) and can cause chronic liver disease, which can be serious or even fatal. 
1 Hepatitis C is one of several viruses that cause hepatitis (inflammation of the liver). 2  Up to 85% of individuals who are initially (acutely) infected with hep C will fail to eliminate the virus and will become chronically infected. 3  Hepatitis C is spread most commonly through inadvertent exposure to infected blood. 1 In the U.S., infection with hepatitis C is the most common cause of chronic hepatitis and the most common reason for liver transplantation. 2  Hepatitis C is diagnosed by determining levels in the blood of antibodies to the virus and then confirming the infection with other tests for viral RNA.
About Hepatitis C Infection. Hepatitis C is a disease caused by a virus that infects your liver. Your liver is an important organ in your body and has many functions. The liver removes harmful chemicals from your body, aids digestion, and processes vitamins and nutrients from food. Hepatitis C virus can cause damage to the liver usually in an insidious manner (chronic hepatitis C infection). Sometimes, the liver damage can be so severe that the liver is not able to carry out the normal functions, resulting in liver failure.