Neurons can respond to stimuli and conduct impulses because a membrane potential is established across the cell membrane. In other words, there is an unequal distribution of ions (charged atoms) on the two sides of a nerve cell membrane. Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells).
An impulse begins when a neuron is stimulated by another neuron or by a stimulus in the environment. The cell membranes begin to change the flow of ions and a reversal of charges, the action potential, results. An impulse that changes one neuron, changes the next. Appropriate responses are carried out by effectors (a muscle or gland). The Neuron. The neuron, a nerve cell, is the functional unit of the nervous system that carries the impulse (the message) to the appropriate part of the nervous system or interprets the impulse and allows a response. There are three types of neurons and each has different functions
Impulse conduction-an impulse is simply the movement of action potentials along a nerve cell. Action potentials are localized (only affect a small area of nerve cell membrane). So, when one occurs, only a small area of membrane depolarizes (or 'reverses' potential). Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells).
Neurophysiology • Neurons are highly sensitive to stimuli. When a neuron is adequately stimulated, an electrical impulse is conducted along the length of the axon. • The response is always the same, regardless of the source or type of stimulus. A.) Basic Principles of Electricity • In the body, electrical currents reflect the flow of ions across the cell membrane.
Nerve impulse. Definition. noun. (1) The movement of action potential along a nerve fiber in response to a stimulus (such as touch, pain, heat or cold). (2) The relaying of a coded signal that travels along a nerve cell membrane to an effector, such as muscle, gland or another nerve cell. Supplement. A nerve impulse is the relaying of a coded signal from a nerve cell to an effector (a muscle cell, a gland cell or another nerve cell) in response to a stimulus. It is the means by which a nerve cell communicates with another cell. 
Neurons • Neurons –cells that transmit nerve impulses•3 Types of Neurons –Sensory neurons carry impulses from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain–Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles and glands–Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and carry impulses between them. 
Action potentials are generated by special types of voltage-gated ion channels embedded in a cell's plasma membrane. These channels are shut when the membrane potential is near the resting potential of the cell, but they rapidly begin to open if the membrane potential increases to a precisely defined threshold value. Several types of cells support an action potential, such as plant cells, muscle cells, and the specialized cells of the heart (in which occurs the cardiac action potential). However, the main excitable cell is the neuron, which also has the simplest mechanism for the action potential.
In beta cells of the pancreas, they provoke release of insulin. Action potentials in neurons are also known as  nerve impulses  or spikes, and the temporal sequence of action potentials generated by a neuron is called its  spike train . A neuron that emits an action potential is often said to fire. Several types of cells support an action potential, such as plant cells, muscle cells, and the specialized cells of the heart (in which occurs the cardiac action potential). However, the main excitable cell is the neuron, which also has the simplest mechanism for the action potential.
Acetylcholine-click on image to open. When the nerve impulse reaches the pre-synaptic membrane it depolarises the membrane. This causes changes in the electrical potential of the immediate environment, i.e. a localised ion transfer reaction is started. This action alters its permeability in favour of calcium ions, Ca 2+ . 