Summary: Life on the Great Plains Name Date CHAPTER 14, LESSON 2 Settling the Great Plains In the early 1800s, few people lived on the Great Plains.TheGreat Plains are in the middle of the United States. Peopledid not think the land was good for farming. It was very dryand flat.In 1862 the Homestead Act was passed.The governmenthelped people to settle on the Great Plains.The governmentsold adults 160 acres of land for a small amount of money. Ifthey could farm the land for five years, they could own it.Asettler’s home and land was called a homestead. 
Before 1860, few people moved west to try to settle on the Great Plains. The poor soil and harsh climate discouraged them (along with the fact that the Plains were officially 'Indian territory'), land was expensive to buy, and anybody wanting to go west faced a long, dangerous and uncomfortable journey.
Settlement in the Great Plains did not fully develop until technological advances allowed this area, once considered a treeless wasteland, to be a viable destination for settlers. These advances included the steel plow, sod houses, railroads, and dry farming techniques. 
From 1862 to 1900, over 600,000 families took the government up on this offer. The Homestead Act was one of the largest attractions for families looking to settle in the West. Government offers such as the land grant to the railroads and the Homestead Act greatly aided in the settlement of the Great Plains. Without them, it is doubtful that the Great Plains would have been inhabited so quickly.
POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT. The history of politics in the Great Plains has to do with the formal structures of governmental authority and the process of political decision making, as well as the policies of external political agencies that have affected the region.
The government helped people to settle on the Great Plains. The government sold adults 160 acres of land for a small amount of money. If they could farm the land for five years, they could own it. A settler’s home and land was called a homestead. Summary: Moving to the Plains Name Date CHAPTER 5, LESSON 2 Settling the Great Plains In the early 1800s, few people lived on the Great Plains. The Great Plains are in the middle of the United States. People did not think the land was good for farming. It was very dry and flat
After 1865, thousands of settlers moved onto the Plains. 1  Freed slaves went there to start a new life as freemen, or to escape economic problems after the Civil War. 2  European immigrants flooded onto the Great Plains, seeking political or religious freedom, or simply to escape poverty in their own country. The poor soil and harsh climate discouraged them (along with the fact that the Plains were officially 'Indian territory'), land was expensive to buy, and anybody wanting to go west faced a long, dangerous and uncomfortable journey.
Answers. Best Answer: Government efforts to promote settlement of the Great Plains were extremely successful. From giving land to the rail roads to offering citizens deals like the Homestead Act, population growth in the Great Plains soared. Government offers such as the land grant to the railroads and the Homestead Act greatly aided in the settlement of the Great Plains. Without them, it is doubtful that the Great Plains would have been inhabited so quickly.
1 European immigrants flooded onto the Great Plains, seeking political or religious freedom, or simply to escape poverty in their own country. 2  Younger sons from the eastern seaboard-where the population was growing and land was becoming more expensive-went because it was a chance to own their own land. The poor soil and harsh climate discouraged them (along with the fact that the Plains were officially 'Indian territory'), land was expensive to buy, and anybody wanting to go west faced a long, dangerous and uncomfortable journey.