I do not own any rights. Caliban's speech to his creator in S01E08 Penny Dreadful. What dreams I had of my mate, of another being looking into these eyes, upon this face and recoiling not. But how can that happen? 
”. The Creature (otherwise known under various names) is a man created from the flesh of other men. The only thing that is his own is his soul, but even he questions whether he really has one. He is Victor's first creation, his first born. He is given a job as a stage hand at the Grand Guignol Theatre, where he learns of performance arts and an exceptionally well-rounded vocabulary. It is here that he is given the name Caliban, after the sub-human son of the malevolent witch Sycorax, and primary antagonist in William Shakespeare's The Tempest.
(Photo: Showtime/Jonathan Hession/Penny Dreadful's Official Facebook Page) New spoilers for the second season of Showtime's Penny Dreadful hints that there will be a love triangle between Caliban, Brona, and Ethan. Meanwhile, Madame Kali might not even be human and what happened on Sir Malcolm Murray's ill-fated exploration could be explored as well. New spoilers for the second season of Showtime's hit television show Penny Dreadful reveal that Madame Kali could be a supernatural creature in disguise. Meanwhile, actress Billie Piper muses on what Season Two could hold for Brona Croft
Penny Dreadful is a British-American horror drama television series created for Showtime and Sky by John Logan, who also acts as executive producer alongside Sam Mendes. The show was originally pitched to several US and UK channels, and eventually landed with Showtime, with Sky Atlantic as co-producer. Recurring cast [edit]. 1  Olivia Llewellyn as Mina Harker, Sir Malcolm's daughter and Vanessa's childhood friend who has been abducted. 2  Alex Price as Proteus, an earlier creation of Frankenstein's, named after the literary character of the same name, who had been killed by the Creature. 3  Robert Nairne as The Vampire, an ancient, deadly and 4  ... Olly ...
1 Episode 4 – Caliban waits for Victor outside Van Helsing’s office and threatens to hurt him is Victor does not make him a bride. 2  Later that night he works as a stage hand for the play that Vanessa, Dorian, Ethan, and Brona go to see. 3  Episode 5 – No Appearance. 4  Episode 6 – Caliban kills Van Helsing and threatens Victor. 1 Episode 2 -Caliban brutally kills Proteus by tearing him apart. 2  He then tells Frankenstein that his “first born” has returned. 3  Episode 3 – We see Caliban’s “birth” and abandonment by Victor. 4  After Victor left him for dead, Caliban lived on the streets of London.
By Penny Dreadful Recap | June 4, 2014 - 10:03 pm | Characters, Penny Dreadful. Caliban is a main male character in Showtime TV show Penny Dreadful. He is played by actor Rory Kinnear. Caliban, or The Creature as he is often called, is the first humanoid monster created by Dr. Victor Frankenstein. His unusual birth left him tortured and anguished, leaving him a lonely and misunderstood outcast. 1 Episode 2 -Caliban brutally kills Proteus by tearing him apart. 2  He then tells Frankenstein that his “first born” has returned. 3  Episode 3 – We see Caliban’s “birth” and abandonment by Victor. 4  After Victor left him for dead, Caliban lived on the streets of London.
(Photo: Showtime/Penny Dreadful's Official Facebook Page) In episode eight of Penny Dreadful season two, Evelyn Poole captures Sir Malcolm Murray while Lily Frankenstein reveals that she knows the truth about her real identity. In episode eight of  Penny Dreadful  season two, Evelyn Poole sets a trap for Sir Malcolm Murray while Lily Frankenstein reveals that she knew she was Brona Croft all along.