Pseudomonas infections are diseases caused by a bacterium from the genus Pseudomonas. The bacteria are found widely in the environment, such as in soil, water, and plants. They usually do not cause infection in healthy people. If an infection does occur in a healthy person, it is generally mild. Pseudomonas infections are caused by a free-living bacterium from the genus Pseudomonas. Pseudomonas are gram-negative bacteria. They are found widely in soil and water. They favor moist areas. Only a few of the many species cause disease. The most common species that causes infection is called Pseudomonas aeruginosa
A. A pseudomonas infection is caused by a very common type of bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (say soo-duh-MOH-nuss ay-roo-jee-NOH-suh). Healthy people often carry these bacteria around without knowing it and without having any problems. Topic Overview. A pseudomonas infection is caused by a very common type of bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (say soo-duh-MOH-nuss ay-roo-jee-NOH-suh).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pseudomonas is a genus of Gram-negative, aerobic gammaproteobacteria, belonging to the family Pseudomonadaceae containing 191 validly described species. The members of the genus demonstrate a great deal of metabolic diversity, and consequently are able to colonize a wide range of niches. 
Practice Essentials. Pseudomonas aeruginosa has become an important cause of infection, especially in patients with compromised host defense mechanisms. It is the most common pathogen isolated from patients who have been hospitalized longer than 1 week, and it is a frequent cause of nosocomial infections. These pathogens are widespread in nature, inhabiting soil, water, plants, and animals (including humans). Pseudomonas aeruginosa has become an important cause of infection, especially in patients with compromised host defense mechanisms.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a rod-shaped bacterium that is normally found in moist or wet areas, like water or soil. It can be found in hot tubs, inadequately chlorinated swimming pool, sinks, and toilets. It's also very prevalent in hospitals. 
Serious Pseudomonas infections usually occur in people in the hospital and/or with weakened immune systems. Infections of the blood, pneumonia, and infections following surgery can lead to severe illness and death in these people. Pseudomonas infection is caused by strains of bacteria found widely in the environment; the most common type causing infections in humans is called Pseudomonas aeruginosa. For more images of this bacterium, search the Public Health Image Library.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common Gram-negative bacterium that can cause disease in plants and animals, including humans. It is citrate, catalase, and oxidase positive. It is found in soil, water, skin flora, and most man-made environments throughout the world. P. aeruginosa is often preliminarily identified by its pearlescent appearance and grape-like or tortilla-like odor in vitro. Definitive clinical identification of P. aeruginosa often includes identifying the production of both pyocyanin and fluorescein, as well as its ability to grow at 42°C.