Main Image: The most popular, and oldest form of soap making process is the “ Cold process method ”, where fats such as olive oil react with lye. In both hot and cold process soap making, heat is required for saponification. The cold process soap making takes place at sufficient temperatures to liquefy the fat being used. 
Cold Process Soap. The type of soap Grandma made is called “Cold Process” soap (commonly referred to as “CP” soap). It is made by combining fatty acids and sodium hydroxide (lye) together. Fatty acids can be almost any oil – from beef tallow to olive oil to hemp oil. The combinations for making your own personal recipe are endless. Cold process soapmaking is a combinations of an art and science.
Cold process soapmaking requires the use of lye and the use of safety equipment, such as goggles and gloves. Please do not attempt to make cold process soap without researching the method thoroughly. Cold process soap is known for its hard, long lasting quality. It is made by combining fatty acids and sodium hydroxide (lye) together. Fatty acids can be almost any oil – from beef tallow to olive oil to hemp oil. The combinations for making your own personal recipe are endless. Cold process soapmaking is a combinations of an art and science.
The type of soap Grandma made is called “Cold Process” soap (commonly referred to as “CP” soap). It is made by combining fatty acids and sodium hydroxide (lye) together. Fatty acids can be almost any oil – from beef tallow to olive oil to hemp oil. The combinations for making your own personal recipe are endless. Cold process soapmaking is a combinations of an art and science. The condensed version of this type of soapmaking is that there is a certain proportion of lye (sodium hydroxide) and water to fatty acids that forms a chemical reaction called “saponifaction.” During saponification, the oils and lye mix and become soap – the process takes approximately six weeks to fully complete.
Saponification Explained. In simple terms, saponification is the name for a chemical reaction between an acid and a base to form a salt. When you make soap using the cold process soap making method, you mix an oil or fat (which is your acid) with Lye (which is your base) to form soap (which is a salt). 
Cold Process Soap Making. Step-by-step instructions for Cold Process Soap Making. Cold Process Soap Tutorial (with swirls): Contributed by: Waters Gulch. There are three main types of soap making. Melt and Pour soaping involves melting a premade base and being creative with color and fragrance. In Hot Process soaping, you cook the ingredients all the way through the process, adding heat to speed the reaction.
Liquid Soap. Liquid soap is usually made with the hot process method, The soap ends up liquid because a different type of lye is used (potassium hydroxide instead of sodium hydroxide) and more water is added. Liquid soaps are typically off-white to amber colored, depending on the oils used. Cold Process Soap. Cold process soapmaking is the method most often used by soapmakers who make soap from scratch. It's called cold process because no additional heat is added during the soapmaking process, however the process itself does generate heat.
Soapmaking involves a chemical process in which sodium hydroxide (lye) reacts with oils to make soap. This process is called saponification. Because this process requires the use of lye, important safety precautions must be taken. And then of course there are the molds, soapmaking oils, and distilled water to be mixed with the lye. There are several types of molds you can use to create cold process soap. You can purchase tray molds that are basically hard plastic molds that will create numerous bars of soap at once.
Soap is the result of combining an acid with a base. In cold process soap making your oils and butters are the acid and sodium hydroxide (lye) is the base. 