1 Check with your local planning department, even if you're just adding flooring in the attic for additional storage space. 2  Adding living space in an attic always requires a permit to be sure the remodeled room meets all code standards such as sufficient ventilation and a second fire exit (a window will do). 1 Installing a pull-down staircase is similar to installing a pre-hung door and installation costs anywhere from $75-$300 or more depending on location and the complexity of the project.
In most cases, when you are extending your home you will be able to keep all the original cladding on your house and simply add the same style of cladding to your addition so it blends in perfectly. Painting the exterior of an average sized, single-storey house with a one-room extension is likely to cost around $15,000. Planning your project. Ground floor extensions are typically more affordable than converting the loft or excavating basement space. Renovation costs for a same level extension are roughly between $60,000 and $200,000 depending on your situation, including material, labour and project management (ready to move in).
It's a myth that second storey additions cost more than ground floor additions. When you extend your home outwards, the cost of the foundation alone can make it more expensive than a second storey addition. However, be prepared for much more disruption in your home if you add on a second storey. A second storey addition may cost less than a ground floor addition, but it's still a major expense. Estimates vary, but renovators who have been through the process estimate the cost of a second storey addition to be between $1,850 and $3,300 per square metre.
Undo. peterbog. Very expensive if you have to cut into an existing ceiling and or alter the attic framework especially if it is a truss system! If you have 9 or 10 feet shouldn't be very expensive to add a dropped tray around the outside of the room. Depending on skills its feasible as a do it your self project. Just frame up a box out of 2X4's and nail it to the existing wall/ceiling framing. Then cover with drywall.
Before you begin on your loft conversion, it is worth finding out exactly what it will involve and how it will affect the design of your home. Here are the 10 key things you need to consider when weighing up whether a loft conversion is the right way to add more space to your property. 
A same level house extension in New Zealand will cost approximately $60,000 to $200,000+. Adding a room or extending your living area on the ground floor are affordable ways of creating more space. Here are some key points to consider that will help you keep your renovation costs in check. Planning your project. Ground floor extensions are typically more affordable than converting the loft or excavating basement space. Renovation costs for a same level extension are roughly between $60,000 and $200,000 depending on your situation, including material, labour and project management (ready to move in).
For the purpose of this discussion we will look at the costs of developing a standard/economy loft dwelling. The U.S. Energy Information Administration states that the average apartment is 861 square feet, the average loft, however is around 600 to 900 square feet. Few have many interior walls, and many have higher ceilings, this is the reason that a loft tends to have less living space than an apartment. According to Hawkins Research, Inc., the typical costs for the development of a single loft in a pre-existing or new construction would include: 1  With mid-range materials, efficient doors and windows, all appliances, and turnkey finishing would run at an average of $117,100 per unit to complete.