Viscose comes under both of them as the raw material used for viscose is cellulose which is broken down and forms fibers. Cotton consists of 90% cellulose, so viscose is considered a natural fiber. Viscose is used in making cellophane. Cellophanes are often used in wrapping gifts and food items etc. Viscose is soft, absorbent and feels comfortable when worn on the skin. Viscose is used in the preparation of shirts, trousers, diapers, napkins, towels and many other products. Viscous fiber material is present in many home products. Viscose material is softer than cotton and more springy than silk.
Viscose is made from cellulose developed from specially processed wood pulp. Since viscose can only be made using pulp composed of long-chain molecules, this pulp is a higher grade pulp than that used for papermaking or other purposes. 
Viscose is pretty much the opposite of polyester in every way. Viscose is a kind of rayon that is not made from polymers like polyester is. Viscose is a regenerated cellulose fiber (meaning that it's made from plant material) more like cotton or linen. Viscose rayon is a medium-weight fiber with fair to good strength and abrasion resistance.... That all being said, the reason the shirt says Viscose and not Rayon is because rayon has received a bad name because of the crappy rayon made in the 1970's. Rayon today is so super awesome (a new rayon form is called Modal and it's about the best thing in the universe).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Viscose is both a semi-synthetic fabric formerly called viscose rayon or rayon and a solution of cellulose xanthate produced by treating dissolving pulp with aqueous sodium hydroxide and carbon disulfide used to spin the viscose rayon fiber. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.
1 Cupramonium Rayon is another type with properties similar to those of viscose or regular rayon. 2  The manufacturing process differs somewhat from that of regular rayon and is less environmentally friendly. 1 Absorbency: Rayon is the most absorbent of all cellulose fibers, even more so than cotton and linen. 2  Because of this, rayon absorbs perspiration and allows it to evaporate away from the skin, making it an excellent summer fabric. 3  Its high absorbency applies equally to dyes, allowing beautiful, deep, rich colours.
Viscose rayon is a man-made fiber made from wood pulp though other materials may be used. It is basically modified cellulose. Viscose is very similar to cotton and silk. (Co … tton is also made of cellulose). Viscose falls somewhere in between a natural fiber and a man-made one. The raw material for viscose is cellulose which is usually reacted with caustic soda and carbon disulfide. It is reformed as fibers by spinning this viscose solution in an acid bath. Viscose rayon has a silky appearance and feel, and also has the ability to breathe in a manner similar to cotton weaves.
Rayon is the generic term for fiber (and the resulting yarn and fabric) manufactured of regenerated cellulose by any one of six processes. Its importance as a fiber lies in its versatility, and in the fact that it was the first viable manufactured fiber. 1 Absorbency: Rayon is the most absorbent of all cellulose fibers, even more so than cotton and linen. 2  Because of this, rayon absorbs perspiration and allows it to evaporate away from the skin, making it an excellent summer fabric. 3  Its high absorbency applies equally to dyes, allowing beautiful, deep, rich colours.
Rayon fiber is produced from the ripened viscose solutions by treatment with a mineral acid, such as sulfuric acid. Viscose rayon is a fiber of regenerated cellulose; it is structurally similar to cotton but may be produced from a variety of plants such as soy, bamboo, and sugar cane. Cellulose is a linear polymer of β-D-glucose units with the empirical formula (C 6 H 10 O 5) n. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.