The underlying hardware or software for a system. For example, the platform might be an Intel 80486 processor running DOS Version 6.0. The platform could also be UNIX machines on an Ethernet network. The platform defines a standard around which a system can be developed. Once the platform has been defined, software developers can produce appropriate software and managers can purchase appropriate hardware and applications. The term is often used as a synonym of operating system. The term cross-platform refers to applications, formats, or devices that work on different platforms. 
1 A browser in the case of web-based software. 2  The browser itself runs on a hardware+OS platform, but this is not relevant to software running within the browser. 3  An application, such as a spreadsheet or word processor, which hosts software written in an application-specific scripting language, such as an Excel macro. 1 An application, such as a spreadsheet or word processor, which hosts software written in an application-specific scripting language, such as an Excel macro. 2  This can be extended to writing fully-fledged applications with the Microsoft Office suite as a platform.
A platform can be seen both as a constraint on the application development process – the application is written for such-and-such a platform – and an assistance to the development process, in that they provide low-level functionality ready-made. 1 An application, such as a spreadsheet or word processor, which hosts software written in an application-specific scripting language, such as an Excel macro. 2  This can be extended to writing fully-fledged applications with the Microsoft Office suite as a platform.
1 The browser itself runs on a hardware+OS platform, but this is not relevant to software running within the browser. 2  An application, such as a spreadsheet or word processor, which hosts software written in an application-specific scripting language, such as an Excel macro. 1 An application, such as a spreadsheet or word processor, which hosts software written in an application-specific scripting language, such as an Excel macro. 2  This can be extended to writing fully-fledged applications with the Microsoft Office suite as a platform.
(August 2010). A computing platform is, in the most general sense, whatever pre-existing environment a piece of computer software or code object is designed to run within, obeying its constraints, and making use of its facilities. 1 An application, such as a spreadsheet or word processor, which hosts software written in an application-specific scripting language, such as an Excel macro. 2  This can be extended to writing fully-fledged applications with the Microsoft Office suite as a platform.
An application platform implies an integrated set of programs that drive the business, whereas an application stack implies the general-purpose productivity programs in use. See application stack, software platform, hardware platform and platform. 
KVM. 1) In computers, a platform is an underlying computer system on which application programs can run. On personal computers, Windows 2000 and the Mac OS X are examples of two different platforms. On enterprise server s or mainframe s, IBM's S/390 is an example of a platform. Nested virtualization describes the process of running a hypervisor within another hypervisor. See complete definition. virtual file system (VFS). A virtual file system (VFS) is programming that forms an interface between an operating system's kernel and a more concrete file ... See complete definition. virtual machine. A virtual machine (VM) shares physical hardware resources with other users but isolates the operating system or application to ..
Definition of:platform. A hardware and/or software architecture that serves as a foundation or base. The term originally dealt with only hardware, and it may still refer to only a CPU model or computer family. For example, the x86 PC is the world's largest hardware platform. IBM's Power Systems and Oracle's SPARC are also hardware platforms (see hardware platform for a larger list). An application can also be a platform if it is a base for other programs. For example, Web browsers accept third-party plug-ins, which are software components that add functionality. The browser becomes a platform to contain those components.