Answer by KindleAndCast. Confidence votes 10. A tree (the rowan tree), also called such names as quickbeam, wicken and mountain ash (although it is not a true ash, by species definition). Rowan is a translation from the Gaelic ruadhan, meaning little red one, a reference to the red berries from this tree.
Rowan is the name of a tree used for protection. When the branches are woven together in a circle on the tree, It's a religious sign of protection. Rowan is also my name and I love it. 1: vote up - 0: vote down. rowan means tree with orange and red berry like fruits. 
What does Rowan mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Rowan is of Irish origin. The meaning of Rowan is tree with red berries, little redhead. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is from the rowan tree. Rowan is a form of the name Rhonwen. Variants of the name Rowan include Rowanne. The names Roan, Roanne are all forms of Rowan. Rowan falls into the tree name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Rowan Shields, Rowan Atkinson.
Rowan /row-an/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Rowan) is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Rowan is little red-head. Also the name of a flowering tree with red berries. Kreatif forms: Rawan, Riwan, Rywan. [ more ]. 
Rowen is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-wen. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1936 in baby name popularity for girls with 103 occurrences. It ranked 787 in popular baby names for boys with 292 occurrences. 
[ 2 syll. ro-wan, row-an ] The baby boy name Rowan is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is R OW-ahN in English †. Rowan is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic. The name is of the meaning little ruddy one, little red-haired one. The name is derived from the surname, itself Anglicized from the Irish Gaelic nickname Ruadhan ruadhán 'meaning little-red haired' one and of The 'gaelic'. ruadh
Rowan is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-wan. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 412 in baby name popularity for girls with 770 occurrences. It ranked 239 in popular baby names for boys with 1531 occurrences. Rowan is a form of the name Rhonwen. Variants of the name Rowan include Rowanne. The names Roan, Roanne are all forms of Rowan. Rowan falls into the tree name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Rowan Shields, Rowan Atkinson.
Rowen /ro-wen/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used less generally as girls' name Rowen). Rowen's roots are Irish and Gaelic, and the meaning of the name Rowen is red-haired; little red-head. Rowen is a version of Rooney (Irish, Gaelic): actor Mickey Rooney. Rowen is also a variation of Rowan (Gaelic). Kreatif forms: Rawen, Rocwen, Ruwen. 
The name was taken from the Rowan tree. -- Kae Kae 6/9/2005. For boys, Rowan is used with the Gaelic little red one meaning and origin behind it. For girls, though, the name came into use because of the tree, and is not in relation to the Gaelic background and English male name, Rowan. 
English Meaning: The name Rowan is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Rowan is: From the rowan tree. American Meaning: The name Rowan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rowan is: From the rowan tree. Gaelic Meaning: The name Rowan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Rowan is: Red. Rowan tree (a type of ash tree).