Spanish Meaning: The name Imelda is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Imelda is: Powerful fighter. The name of a fourteenth-century Spanish saint. American Meaning: The name Imelda is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Imelda is: Powerful fighter.
Just for fun, see the name Emelda in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Emelda in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Emelda Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Emelda has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Emelda to other names.
What does Imelda mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Imelda is of Latin origin. The meaning of Imelda is warrior. It is also of German origin, where its meaning is all consuming fight and Italian origin, where its meaning is whole battle. One part indicates the gender and the other the characteristic of the person. For example, Adelbert or Albert is composed of adel meaning noble and a derivation of beracht meaning bright or shining. Given names are generally gender specific. Male names cannot be used for females and vice versa.
Imelda /imel-da/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ee-MEL-dah. It is of Old German and Italian origin, and the meaning of Imelda is  universal battle . The name of a 14th-century virgin Spanish saint. Also made famous by Philippine First Lady Imelda Marcos. Actress Imelda Staunton. Imelda is a very popular first name for women (#888 out of 4276, Top 21%) but a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Imelda for girls.
Emelda /emel-da/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and Emelda means rival; laborious; eager. Emelda is a variant transcription of Emily (Latin): feminine of Emil. Emelio is a familiar surname. Kreatif forms: Eiemelda, Emeldaei, Emelra. Emelda is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#2617 out of 4276, Top 61%) but an unusual last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census).
Imelda is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced I-mel-da. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5493 in baby name popularity for girls with 24 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. One part indicates the gender and the other the characteristic of the person. For example, Adelbert or Albert is composed of adel meaning noble and a derivation of beracht meaning bright or shining. Given names are generally gender specific. Male names cannot be used for females and vice versa.
[ 3 syll. e-mel-da, em-e- lda ] The baby girl name Emelda is pronounced as iy-M EH LD-ah †. Emelda is an English and French name of English, Spanish, and Germanic origin. Emelda is a derivative of the English name Emerald. Emelda is also a derivative of the Greek, Spanish, English, German, and Italian name Esmeralda. Emelda is also a derivative (English and French) of the English, Italian, and Spanish name Imelda. Emelda is not popular as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. Among the group of girl names directly related to Emelda, Esmeralda was the most widely used in 2012. Baby names that sound like Emelda include the English, Italian, and Spanish name Imelda and the Italian name Imelde