The Prince Philip Movement is a religious sect followed by the Kastom people around Yaohnanen village on the southern island of Tanna in Vanuatu. It is a cargo cult of the Yaohnanen tribe, who believe that Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, the consort to Queen Elizabeth II, is a divine being. In 2010 Australian journalist Amos Roberts visited Tanna and reported on the locals' celebration of Philip's 89th birthday, for SBS 's magazine program Dateline. In 2011 the people of Yaohnanen village were featured in an episode of the second series of An Idiot Abroad with Karl Pilkington.
It's quite a devastating sight.. A witness on the island of 29,000 people, about 200 kilometres south of the capital, said that while damage was extensive, it appeared most of the population had survived by sheltering in schools, churches and other sturdy buildings. People sheltered in school buildings. There were unconfirmed reports of four deaths in and around the main town of Tanna. Aircraft flying over other outlying islands had seen large white Hs marked out on the ground, or residents trying to signal for help with mirrors, he added. Aid onboard an Australian RAAF C-17 Globemaster on its way to Port Vila.
About 7km under Tanna island is the Australian plate plunging under that of the Pacific plate at the same time fusing with it, generating magna that reaches the surface creating hot spots, one of them is the Yasur Volcano; a ‘young’ volcano, only 100,000 years old. To really see Tanna, a minimum of 3 to 5 nights is recommended; splitting half your time on each side of the island. Tanna means “earth” in Tannese. The home of cargo cults, the most accessible volcano in the world and traditional, peaceful people.
Tanna was first settled about 400 BC by Melanesians from the surrounding islands. The glowing light of Mount Yasur attracted James Cook, the first European to visit the island, in August 1774, where he landed in an inlet on the southeastern tip of the island that he named Port Resolution after his ship HMS Resolution. In 1980, there was another attempt to secede, declaring the Tafea Nation on January 1, 1980, its name coming from the initials of the five islands that were to be part of the nation (Tanna, Aniwa, Futuna, Erromango and Aneityum).
Tanna Map, Vanuatu. Tanna Island is Vanuatu's most famous island, site of the most accessible active volcano in the South Pacific. Yasur Volcano belches fire and brimstone around the clock, yet you can walk right up to the crater rim from a parking lot in 20 minutes. Although Tanna Island lacks large hotels, there are a couple of small resorts near the airport and around Yasur Volcano. Tanna's administrative center is Lenakel, but it's little more than a cluster of small general stores. Most visitors arrive on brief package tours from Efate
Why. Aside from the cosmopolitan capital, Port Vila, the country's biggest attractions are the island of Tanna in the south, with its intact tribal culture and active volcano, and Santo in the north, a mecca for scuba divers. The 83 islands of Vanuatu (the name means Land Eternal) stretch north-south 1,300 km, from the Torres Islands near Santa Cruz in the Solomons to minuscule Matthew and Hunter Islands (also claimed by France) east of New Caledonia.
Mt Yasur is an active volcano on Tanna Island, Vanuatu with a height of 361 m (1,184 ft) above sea level, located on the South East coast near Sulphur Bay. To really see Tanna, a minimum of 3 to 5 nights is recommended; splitting half your time on each side of the island. Tanna means “earth” in Tannese. The home of cargo cults, the most accessible volcano in the world and traditional, peaceful people.
Tanna (sometimes spelled Tana) is an island in Tafea Province of Vanuatu. In 1980, there was another attempt to secede, declaring the Tafea Nation on January 1, 1980, its name coming from the initials of the five islands that were to be part of the nation (Tanna, Aniwa, Futuna, Erromango and Aneityum).
Tanna and nearby Erromango were devastated by cyclone Pam in mid-March 2015, with reports of an unknown number of deaths, complete destruction of the island’s infrastructure and permanent shelters, no drinking water. In 1980, there was another attempt to secede, declaring the Tafea Nation on January 1, 1980, its name coming from the initials of the five islands that were to be part of the nation (Tanna, Aniwa, Futuna, Erromango and Aneityum).