Cartilage is a strong, flexible type of connective tissue found within a body. Learn more about its structure and function, as well as the different types of cartilage connective tissue we have in our bodies. Connective tissue is essential for our bodies to function properly. Bone connective tissue provides structure and support, adipose (or fat) connective tissue insulates and provides energy, and blood connective tissue distributes oxygen to our tissues and removes carbon dioxide.
Cartilage /ˈkɑrtɨlɨdʒ/ is a flexible connective tissue in animals, including the joints between bones, the rib cage, the ear, the nose, the bronchial tubes and the intervertebral discs. It is not as hard and rigid as bone, but it is stiffer and less flexible than muscle. Cartilage is classified in three types, elastic cartilage, hyaline cartilage and fibrocartilage, which differ in relative amounts of cartilage. Chondroblasts that get caught in the matrix are called chondrocytes. Cartilage does not contain blood vessels (avascular) or nerves (aneural).
Cartilage is a connective tissue consisting of a dense matrix of collagen fibres and elastic fibres embedded in a rubbery ground substance. The matrix is produced by cells called chondroblasts, which become embedded in the matrix as chondrocytes. That is, cartilage cells are called chondrocytes. 3.0 The Functions of hyaline cartilage tissue. Hyaline cartilage tissue provides. , enabling tissues to move/slide easily over each other, e.g. facilitating smooth movements at joints. It is also provides flexibility and support.
3.0 The Functions of elastic cartilage tissue Elastic cartilages provides support to surrounding structures and helps the define and maintain the shape of the area in which it is present, e.g. the external ear. 3.0 The Functions of hyaline cartilage tissue. Hyaline cartilage tissue provides. , enabling tissues to move/slide easily over each other, e.g. facilitating smooth movements at joints. It is also provides flexibility and support.
The function of cartilage is to act like bone but it is a little bit more flexible It acts as a cushion. For instance, you have discs of cartilage between each vertebra in your back. To cusion the bones from rubbing and smacking on each other. It also allows gliding motions. The main function of the articular cartilage is to provide a smooth  surfac … e where the bones connect and touch.
Ligaments: is a tough material that connects bones together at the joints. Cartilage: is a smooth tough material that protects the end of the bones. It protects the end of t … he bones. Tendons: is a rubber-like cords. it's function is it stretch as the muscles and the bones move. To cusion the bones from rubbing and smacking on each other. It also allows gliding motions. The main function of the articular cartilage is to provide a smooth  surfac … e where the bones connect and touch.
3.0 The Functions of elastic cartilage tissue. Elastic cartilages provides support to surrounding structures and helps the define and maintain the shape of the area in which it is present, e.g. the external ear. See also the related page about the structure and functions of bone tissue. 3.0 The Functions of hyaline cartilage tissue. Hyaline cartilage tissue provides. , enabling tissues to move/slide easily over each other, e.g. facilitating smooth movements at joints. It is also provides flexibility and support.
The function of hyaline cartilage is also normally to support the movable joints between bones, as well as the connections between the ribs and the breast bone, or sternum. Usually supporting the physical structure of an embryo before bones form, the cartilage is also normally where bones grow in length. 
Diffen › Science › Biology › Anatomy. Bone and cartilage are types of connective tissues in the body. A bone is hard tissue that forms the skeletal structure of the body. Cartilage, by comparison, is not as hard and rigid as bone, and is present in areas of the body like the ear, nose, and joints.
The functions of cartilage in your skeletal system include  cushioning your joints and creating passages for air when  flexibility is required. Cartilage cushions the areas … between your  vertebra and joints. To cusion the bones from rubbing and smacking on each other. It also allows gliding motions. The main function of the articular cartilage is to provide a smooth  surfac … e where the bones connect and touch.