This sparked a series of investigations into the limit and role of reason and of our sensory faculties, how knowledge is acquired and what knowledge consists of. Here we find the Greek creation of philosophy as “the love of wisdom,” and the birth of metaphysics, epistemology, and ethics. The Western philosophical tradition began in ancient Greece in the 6th century BCE. The first philosophers are called Presocratics which designates that they came before Socrates. The Presocratics were from either the eastern or western regions of the Greek world.
Ancient Greek philosophy arose in the 6th century BCE and continued throughout the Hellenistic period and the period in which Ancient Greece was part of the Roman Empire. It dealt with a wide variety of subjects, including political philosophy, ethics, metaphysics, ontology, logic, biology, rhetoric, and aesthetics. Some claim that Greek philosophy, in turn, was influenced by the older wisdom literature and mythological cosmogonies of the ancient Near East.
The Greeks. Western intellectual history always begins with the ancient Greeks. This is not to say that no one had any deep thoughts prior to the ancient Greeks, or that the philosophies of ancient India and China (and elsewhere) were in any way inferior. Greek philosophy didn’t begin in Greece (as we know it); It began on the western coast of what is now Turkey, an area known then as Ionia. In Ionia’s richest city, Miletus, was a man of Phoenician descent called Thales (624-546).
Socrates, born in Athens in the 5th century BCE, marks a watershed in ancient Greek philosophy. Athens was a center of learning, with sophists and philosophers traveling from across Greece to teach rhetoric, astronomy, cosmology, geometry, and the like. Some claim that Greek philosophy, in turn, was influenced by the older wisdom literature and mythological cosmogonies of the ancient Near East.
In addition to the Greek Pantheon, He believes there is one god that is the Ideal God. All gods emanate from this god. One of these lesser gods is called the Demiurge. This god is responsible for the creation of the physical world and the rest of the Greek gods. 1. Socrates and Plato both acknowledged the Greek Pantheon. They believed however that the gods were good, just and full of virtue or they would not be gods. Socrates often mentions “the god”. This is always a reference to the god Apollo.
Ancient Greek Philosophy. The Ancient Greek philosophers have played a pivotal role in the shaping of the western philosophical tradition. This article surveys the seminal works and ideas of key figures in the Ancient Greek philosophical tradition from the Presocratics to the Neoplatonists. The Western philosophical tradition began in ancient Greece in the 6th century BCE. The first philosophers are called Presocratics which designates that they came before Socrates. The Presocratics were from either the eastern or western regions of the Greek world.
© 2001 – 2011 World View Classes 1 Week 22 The World View of the Greek Philosophers I. What is the Greek World View as Explained by Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle? A. Their view of the Gods. 1. Socrates and Plato both acknowledged the Greek Pantheon. They believed however that the gods were good, just and full of virtue or they would not be gods. Socrates often mentions “the god”. This is always a reference to the god Apollo.
Early Life. Ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle was born circa 384 B.C. in Stagira, a small town on the northern coast of Greece that was once a seaport. Aristotle’s father, Nicomachus, was court physician to the Macedonian king Amyntas II. 
Thales, the first Greek philosopher and the first who is recorded to have studied in Africa, says that he learned philosophy from the Egyptians. They studied in Egypt because it was the educational capital of the ancient world. Pythagoras is known to have spent at least twenty two years in Africa. The African people may have religion and myths, but not philosophy, according to this reasoning. Thus, this notion privileges the Greeks as the originators of philosophy, the highest of the sciences. There is a serious problem with this line of reasoning. The information is false.