The best time to prune or trim trees and shrubs is during the late winter while they’re dormant. Pruning during the dormant season is ideal because: 1  The wounds heal faster, keeping the plant strong. 2  There is less risk of disease or pest infestation.
The best time to prune deciduous shrubs is during late winter and early spring before the new growth begins, as cited by the Iowa State University Extension.
The best time to prune most bushes and shrubs is in late winter or early spring—usually during the later half of March or the beginning of April—before new growths have formed after the dormant period.
Prune shade trees such as oak, linden, and ash when they are dormant in winter. It's easiest to see the branching structure at this time of year, and you're less likely to spread diseases through the pruning wounds. As with nonblooming shrubs, avoid pruning them late in summer.
Pruning is also a good method for training a plant to grow in a certain direction or shape. Although bushes and shrubs can be cut back at almost any time during the year, there are better and worse times recommended for pruning.
For this reason, it is best to begin pruning plants while they are young to encourage a compact growth habit. Prune young hedge plants (one to two years old) to within 12 inches of ground level. This procedure is called heading back, where stems are shortened and new growth is promoted below the cut.
Bushes and shrubs should ideally be pruned every year. However, gardeners should take a three year approach to cutting back overgrown bushes and shrubs before pruning the entire plant annually. During the first year, remove one-third of the biggest and older branches starting at the bottom of the plant.
Deciduous Shrubs. The best time to prune deciduous shrubs is during late winter and early spring before the new growth begins, as cited by the Iowa State University Extension. Avoid pruning in late summer, as the tender new growth will be susceptible to cold and frost damage.
Renewal pruning means cutting the plants back to within 6 to 12 inches of ground level. In this instance, timing is more important than technique. The best time to prune severely is before spring growth begins.