Battle of Gettysburg This most famous and most important Civil War Battle occurred over three hot summer days, July 1 to July 3, 1863, around the small market town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. It began as a skirmish but by its end involved 160,000 Americans. 
The Second Day was when the Confederate Army tried to outflank the Union Army. The Third Day included Pickett's Charge where 12,500 Confederate soldiers attacked the Union Center. With the failure of Day 2 & 3 General Lee withdrew from Gettysburg barely pursued by the Federal Army. Thus was the Battle of Gettysburg a Federal Victory and General Lee's first major defeat of the war. Lee did not intend to fight a battle at Gettysburg. His army was spread out over a large portion of south-central Pennsylvania. The Second Corps of Lee's Army was actually on … the west bank of the Susquehanna River, looking across at the state capital, Harrisburg.
On his way he was found by Meade's Union forces at the small village of Gettysburg. The advance guard of Lee met the pickets of Meade's force and a clash on July 1, 1863, turned into the most decisive battle of the Civil War that ended July 3,1863. In May of 1863, the Confederate army, led by General Robert E. Lee, gained victory at the Battle of Chancellorsville, Virginia, defeating a much larger Union army. This gave the Confederate army confidence to continue their advance northward
The Battle of Gettysburg-July 1 to July 3, 1863. To be truthful, the battle was a fluke. Lee had invaded the North, and was unsure where the Yankees were, due to Stuart's abscence. The Battle of Gettysburg (July 1-3, 1863) was a major battle of the US Civil War. It took place in and south of Gettysburg, PA, only about 10 miles north of the Maryland borde … r in south central Pennsylvania.
The Battle of Gettysburg (local /ˈɡɛtɨsbɜrɡ/ , with an /s/ sound) was fought July 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, by Union and Confederate forces during the American Civil War. Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there, his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it. Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union cavalry division under Brig.
The Battle of Gettysburg started on July 1, 1863, when Lee’s Army of Northern Virginia met Gen. George Meade’s Union Army of the Potomac. During the three-day battle, about 165,000 soldiers clashed in and around the small town of Gettysburg (battle-era population: 2,400). 
The Battle of Gettysburg was fought in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania and  the farmland surrounding it on July 1 through July 3, 1863. The  area acknowledged to be the battlegroun … d covered an area of some 24  square miles. The Battle of Gettysburg (July 1-3, 1863) was a major battle of the US Civil War. It took place in and south of Gettysburg, PA, only about 10 miles north of the Maryland borde … r in south central Pennsylvania.
Introduction. The Battle of Gettysburg, fought from July 1 to July 3, 1863, is considered the most important engagement of the American Civil War. After a great victory over Union forces at Chancellorsville, General Robert E. Lee marched his Army of Northern Virginia into Pennsylvania in late June 1863. On July 1, the advancing Confederates clashed with the Union’s Army of the Potomac, commanded by General George G. Meade, at the crossroads town of Gettysburg.
The Battle of Gettysburg, which became the largest battle ever fought in the U.S., started out as a chance encounter between the Union and Confederate Forces. After his victory at Chancellorsville in Virginia, Confederate commander Lee decided to focus on invading the North in what he called the Gettysburg Campaign. Both the Confederates and the Union were aiming for a certain road junction in Gettysburg, which led to a collision of the two armies. Determined to destroy the Union army, Lee decided to immediately concentrate his forces there, while the Union also kept sending reinforcements, resulting in a three-day battle.