Diversification is the means of reaching new markets through new or more varied products (Ansoff, 1957). It is a means of spreading the base of a business and the extent to which firms are active simultaneously in several different businesses (Booz et al., 1985; Ramanujam & Varadarajan, 1989).
“ My friend said her investment broker told her that her portfolio needed diversification so as to reduce the risk of one of her investments from reducing the value of the whole portfolio. ”.
Diversification. In risk management, the act or strategy of adding more investments to one's portfolio to hedge against the investments already in it. Ideally, this reduces the risk inherent in any one investment, and increases the possibility of making a profit, or at least avoiding a loss.
A risk management technique that mixes a wide variety of investments within a portfolio. The rationale behind this technique contends that a portfolio of different kinds of investments will, on average, yield higher returns and pose a lower risk than any individual investment found within the
Definition. A portfolio strategy designed to reduce exposure to risk by combining a variety of investments, such as stocks, bonds, and real estate, which are unlikely to all move in the same direction. The goal of diversification is to reduce the risk in a portfolio. Volatility is limited by the fact that not all asset classes or industries or individual companies move up and down in value at the same time or at the same rate.
Studies and mathematical models have shown that maintaining a well-diversified portfolio of 25 to 30 stocks will yield the most cost-effective level of risk reduction. Investing in more securities will still yield further diversification benefits, albeit at a drastically smaller rate.
Investment diversification is a portfolio strategy combining a variety of assets to reduce the overall risk of an investment portfolio. Portfolio risk consists of two types, systematic risk and unsystematic risk.
Diversification strives to smooth out unsystematic risk events in a portfolio so that the positive performance of some investments will neutralize the negative performance of others.