You remain liable for the payment of the difference between your insurance company’s settlement and the balance of your loan. This deficiency, added to the amount of your deductible, and other expenses, can easily be thousands of dollars – money that comes out of your pocket unless you have auto GAP insurance! 1 GAP auto insurance pays your remaining loan balance after insurance proceeds are applied to your loan. 2  Benefits are paid up to $50,000. 3  Protection is provided for the term of your loan (up to 84 months).
As the name implies, gap insurance covers the difference between the amount you owe on the loan and the cash value of your car. If there's an accident that totals your vehicle, your insurance provider only pays the value of the car at the time, which can be less than the amount remaining on your loan. When you refinance, the interest rate and length of the loan can change. Ask your auto insurance company what they'll pay if the car is declared a total loss. If that amount is less than you owe, consider adding gap coverage to the new loan.
Pearse says Travelers calculates gap insurance premiums at roughly 5 percent to 6 percent of the premium for collision and comprehensive insurance you have on the car. On a $1,400 annual premium -- with $420 to $560 of that typically for collision and comprehensive -- gap insurance would cost $20 to $30. By Russ Heaps • Bankrate.com. Car gap insurance is one of those expenses that seem like a waste of money until you need it. In fact, unless you have suffered the total loss of a vehicle through either collision or theft, you may be unfamiliar with car gap insurance and how much it could ultimately save you.
Adding Gap Insurance. When you refinance, the interest rate and length of the loan can change. Ask your auto insurance company what they'll pay if the car is declared a total loss. If that amount is less than you owe, consider adding gap coverage to the new loan.
If there is no primary insurance, GAP pays the difference between the NADA Retail Value of your vehicle, at the time of loss, and the outstanding balance of you loan. Most likely GAP would not pay off the loan balance in full in this situation. I am refinancing my loan. GAP covers the difference between the actual cash value (ACV) of your vehicle and the outstanding loan balance. Since your insurance company pays ACV less the amount of your deductible, the “gap” is increased by this amount. When your loan balance is paid off by GAP the deductible is paid as part of that balance
Gap insurance coverage is associated with a specific auto loan. It can't be transferred or reassigned to another loan, even one that covers the same vehicle. When you refinance, your loan is paid off and your gap coverage ends. If you want to maintain gap insurance on your car, you'll need to purchase a new policy. When you refinance, the interest rate and length of the loan can change. Ask your auto insurance company what they'll pay if the car is declared a total loss. If that amount is less than you owe, consider adding gap coverage to the new loan.
The purpose of gap insurance is to pay for the difference between the value of your car and what you owe in car loan. For example, let’s say you totaled your car after 15 months. 
When refinancing late in the loan, gap coverage is a waste of money since you typically aren't upside down on a new car loan after about three years. The length of time you have to add gap insurance coverage varies based on the policy issuer, but you'll generally have up to 12 months. When you refinance, the interest rate and length of the loan can change. Ask your auto insurance company what they'll pay if the car is declared a total loss. If that amount is less than you owe, consider adding gap coverage to the new loan.
As the value of the car depreciates, the loan balance doesn't fall nearly as fast. For the first couple of years you owe more than the value of the vehicle. The insurance company has nothing to do with auto loan. GAP insurance was created to cover the difference in the ACV of the vehicle and the loan payoff. You can buy GAP insurance from the finance company or bank that financed the vehicle or from your insurance company. Purchasing from the insurance is much less expensive and you can drop the coverage once the loan balance falls below the value of the vehicle. It's purpose is simple: If your car is totaled, gap insurance will cover the difference between what your insurance company says your car is worth (actual cash value) and what you still owe on your loan or lease. 2 people found this useful.