Uses. This medication is a mineral supplement used to treat or prevent low amounts of potassium in the blood. A normal level of potassium in the blood is important. Potassium helps your cells, kidneys, heart, muscles, and nerves work properly. Most people get enough potassium by eating a well-balanced diet. 
potassium chloride (KCl), a white crystalline salt used as a substitute for table salt in the diet of people with cardiovascular disorders, in administration of the potassium ion, and as a constituent of Ringer's solution. (See Appendix 6.) In combination with other minerals in the body, potassium forms alkaline salts that are important in body processes and play an essential role in maintenance of the acid-base and water balance in the body. All body cells, especially muscle tissue, require a high content of potassium.
1 Review. Potassium chloride is a mineral supplement used to treat or prevent low levels of potassium in the blood. The supplement, often referred to as the formula KCl, is available from dozens of manufacturers. Potassium is essential for the function of the heart, muscles, kidneys, nerves, and digestive system.
MANUFACTURER. SANDOZ. CHEMICAL NAME. POTASSIUM CHLORIDE. INDICATIONS. This medicine is a potassium supplement used to treat or prevent low potassium levels in the blood. DIRECTIONSFollow the directions for using this medicine provided by your doctor. Some brands of potassium must be swallowed whole.
How to use Pot Bicarb-Pot Chloride(25mEq) oral. This medication is a mineral supplement used to treat or prevent low amounts of potassium in the blood. A normal level of potassium in the blood is important. Potassium helps your cells, kidneys, heart, muscles, and nerves work properly. Most people get enough potassium by eating a well-balanced diet.
The chemical compound potassium chloride (KCl) is a metal halide salt composed of potassium and chloride. It is odorless and has a white or colorless vitreous crystal appearance. The solid dissolves readily in water and its solutions have a salt-like taste. KCl is used in medicine, scientific applications, food processing, and used to cause cardiac arrest as the third drug in the three drug cocktail for executions by lethal injection.
Klor-Con® (potassium chloride) Extended-release Tablets are an electrolyte replenisher. The chemical name is potassium chloride, and the structural formula is KCl. Potassium chloride, USP is a white, granular powder or colorless crystals. It is odorless and has a saline taste. Its solutions are neutral to litmus. Klor-Con® (potassium chloride) Extended-release Tablets, USP are a solid oral dosage form of potassium chloride. Each contains 600 mg or 750 mg of potassium chloride equivalent to 8 mEq or 10 mEq of potassium in a wax matrix tablet.
Potassium forms many important compounds. Potassium chloride (KCl) is the most common potassium compound. It is used in fertilizers, as a salt substitute and to produce other chemicals. Potassium hydroxide (KOH) is used to make soaps, detergents and drain cleaners. 