Sabine Pass LNG Terminal. The Sabine Pass LNG terminal is located on over 1,000 acres of land along the Sabine Pass River on the border between Texas and Louisiana, in Cameron Parish, Louisiana. in the development of LNG Terminals. Cheniere is among the leading companies in North America strategically pursuing the development of LNG terminals. The Company is currently developing onshore LNG export terminals and related natural gas pipelines along the U.S. Gulf Coast.
Houston-based LNG player Cheniere filed construction activities report with FERC for its Stage 1 Stage 2 Sabine Pass LNG export terminal in Cameron Parish, Louisiana that occurred during the month of March 2015. Cheniere, which is building liquefaction facilities at its Sabine Pass LNG terminal in Lousiana, expects that US ... read more →. Cheniere Energy reported a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $97.8 million for the three months ended ...
In 2012, Sabine Pass Liquefaction was authorized to export LNG up to the equivalent of 2.2 Bcf/d of natural gas for a period of 20 years. With this most recent authorization, Sabine Pass Liquefaction is authorized to export LNG up to the equivalent of 3.58 Bcf/d of natural gas for a period of 20 years. 
Cheniere Energy. Cameron Parish, Louisiana, USA. With an existing pipeline infrastructure and access to southeast Texas and inland U.S. markets, the suitability of the Sabine Pass deepwater port for a liquid natural gas (LNG) receiving terminal became apparent to several energy companies in the early 21st century.
The Sabine Pass LNG terminal is spread over an 853 acre site in Cameron Parish, Louisiana, US. The facility is the largest receiving and regasifying terminal in the world with a total send out capacity of 4bcf/d and storage capacity of 16.8bcf. The Sabine Pass LNG terminal is spread over 853 acres. The facility is the largest receiving and regasifying terminal in the world. The LNG delivered by the carriers is transported into insulated storage tanks.
Bechtel built our existing regasification facilities at the Sabine Pass LNG terminal on time and on budget, and is ahead of schedule on the four LNG trains currently under construction, said Charif Souki, Cheniere’s chairman and CEO. 
Bechtel built and expanded the Sabine Pass LNG receiving terminal between 2005 and 2009. Now we’re adding liquefaction capability so that the terminals’ storage tanks, shipping berths, and pipelines can do double duty and our customer can be among the first to market with export capability. On a Sabine River estuary adjacent to the receiving terminal we built and expanded, Bechtel is now adding two refrigeration trains. This conversion to a bidirectional facility will let our customer liquefy and export U.S. natural gas or import and regasify foreign-sourced LNG, depending on market conditions.
The company continues to remain at the forefront of U.S. LNG terminal development and construction. Cheniere is currently constructing the first LNG export facility in North America to have been built in over 40 years. LNG Terminals. Cheniere is among the leading companies in North America strategically pursuing the development of LNG terminals. The Company is currently developing onshore LNG export terminals and related natural gas pipelines along the U.S. Gulf Coast.
Sabine Pass Liquefaction will pay Sabine Pass LNG for terminal services provided in their Terminal Use Agreement, 12 Currently, Sabine Pass LNG contracts with Cheniere LNG O&M Services, LLC (Cheniere O&M) for the operation and maintenance of the LNG terminal facilities. 
Construction of Phase 1 of the Sabine Pass LNG receiving, storage, and regasification terminal was an extraordinary accomplishment. Shortly after work began in 2005, Hurricane Katrina nearly destroyed nearby New Orleans and contributed to a severe shortage of craft labor throughout the U.S. Gulf Coast region. On a Sabine River estuary adjacent to the receiving terminal we built and expanded, Bechtel is now adding two refrigeration trains. This conversion to a bidirectional facility will let our customer liquefy and export U.S. natural gas or import and regasify foreign-sourced LNG, depending on market conditions.