Various ancient Greek and Roman authors wrote about cyclopes. Hesiod described them as three brothers who were primordial giants. All the other sources of literature about the cyclopes describe the cyclops Polyphemus, who lived upon an island (often identified by ancient authors with Sicily) populated by the creatures. In Hesiod 's Theogony, Zeus releases three Cyclopes from the dark pit of Tartarus. They provide Zeus' thunderbolt, Hades' helmet of invisibility, and Poseidon's trident, and the gods use these weapons to defeat the Titans.
A cyclops (/ˈsaɪklɒps/ SY-klops; Ancient Greek: κύκλωψ, Kuklōps; plural cyclopes /saɪˈkloʊpiːz/ sy-KLOH-peez; Ancient Greek: κύκλωπες, Kuklōpes), in Greek mythology and later Roman mythology, was a member of a primordial race of giants, each with a single eye in the middle of his forehead. In Hesiod 's Theogony, Zeus releases three Cyclopes from the dark pit of Tartarus. They provide Zeus' thunderbolt, Hades' helmet of invisibility, and Poseidon's trident, and the gods use these weapons to defeat the Titans.
Cyclops. Cyclops were giants of the Greek Mythology with only one eye in their forehead, children of the earth, Gaea .They ate humans, were thick and had given Zeus the thunder and lightning as a sign of gratitude when he released them from the underworld. The Homeric story of Odysseus and the Cyclops was of course as familiar as it was popular. Polyphemus enters, made up as a giant, with one enormous eye, and a stentorian voice, whilst his man Silenus and his companions were probably caricatures of Socrates and other philosophers.
Gill. Definition: The Cyclops were represented as strong, one-eyed giants in Greek mythology. Their name is also spelled Cyclopes, and, as usual with Greek words, the letter K may be used in place of the C. According to the Greek epic poet Hesiod, the Cyclops were the sons of Uranus (Sky) and Gaia /Ge (Earth). Hesiod names the Cyclops Argos, Steropes, and Brontes
The Cyclops, or the Cyclopes (plural, Greek: κύκλωπες), are a member of a primordial race of giants, each with a single eye in the middle of its forehead.. In English, the plural cyclopses is also used. The name means round- or wheel-eyed. They are characters of Greek mythology. The first group of Cyclopes are Brontes, Steropes and Arges. Their children are Euryalos, Elatreus, Trachios and Halimedes. The younger Cyclopes are the sons of Poseidon, who feature in the Odyssey.
Polyphemus (/ˌpɒlɨˈfiːməs/ ; Greek: πολύφημος Polyphēmos) is the giant son of Poseidon and Thoosa in Greek mythology, one of the Cyclopes described in Odyssey. His name means abounding in songs and legends. Polyphemus first appears as a savage man-eating giant in the ninth book of Homer 's Odyssey. 
In a famous episode of Homer 's Odyssey, the hero Odysseus encounters the cyclops Polyphemus, the son of Poseidon and Thoosa (a nereid), who lives with his fellow Cyclopes in a distant country. The connection between the two groups has been debated in antiquity and by modern scholars. In Hesiod 's Theogony, Zeus releases three Cyclopes from the dark pit of Tartarus. They provide Zeus' thunderbolt, Hades' helmet of invisibility, and Poseidon's trident, and the gods use these weapons to defeat the Titans.
in Greek Myths. The myth of Odysseus and the Cyclops is one of the most known Greek myths, narrated by Homer in his Odyssey. The myth of Odysseus and the Cyclops is about the one-eyed, giant Cyclops who menaced and almost put an end to the hero Odysseus. The Cyclops is one of the memorable characters of Greek mythology. Odysseus and his shipmates encountered the Cyclops on their ill-fated return from the Trojan War.
Odysseus and the Cyclops (Greek, from The Odyssey, by Homer). : The clever Greek leader, Odysseus, and his men become trapped by a viscious one-eyed monster, who eats the men one by one. Odysseus devises a plan, blinds the monster, and escapes with his men. 