Florist's cineraria (Pericallis x hybrida) grace flower markets and greenhouses most often in late winter and early spring, making lovely potted plants. 
Cinerarias are a true Annual, and only flower once. Cineraria, Senecio cruentus, have many daisy like flowers covering the top of the plant that can come in shades of dark pink, red, purple, blue, and white. The Cineraria blooms last between four and six weeks. 
Cineraria Flower-Pictures & Meanings. The cineraria flower – sometimes known at the florist’s cineraria – is a hybrid species in the pericallis genus and belongs to the vast compositae family. These plants, which are native to England, grow their best in thoroughly moistened soil and a good deal of shade. What makes cineraria flowers a favorite amongst gardeners and florists is the variety of vibrant colors. These plants may be seen in shades of magenta and violet, blue, white and red; they may be variegated, uniformly bicolored, or have contrasting centers.
Learn how to care for house plants: ABOUT THE AUTHOR: The brightly colored, daisylike flowers that cover the cineraria make it a popular gift plant. The flowers can be white, pink, red, blue, or purple, often with a white ring surrounding a contrasting central disk. The leaves are medium green and roughly arrow-shaped. House Plants Image Gallery. The cineraria is usually purchased in full bloom and thrown away when it becomes unattractive.
Definition of CINERARIA. : any of several garden or potted plants derived from a perennial senecio (Senecio cruentus) of the Canary Islands and having heart-shaped leaves and clusters of bright flower heads. ADVERTISEMENT
Cineraria is one plant name with a lot of confusion. Cineraria is a name used to reference plants in multiple genera, and that practice causes some confusion in identifying the plants' characteristics. The Cineraria genus is considered the true cineraria, but it is not as well-known as other genera's plants that have the name cineraria.. Native to the Canary Islands, florist's cineraria (Pericallis x hybrida), is hardy in USDA zones 9b to 10b in sites that receive partial shade to full sun. Its spring and winter blooms are in shades of blue, pink, purple, red and white and are used for cut flower arrangement
Florist's cineraria or tall cineraria (Pericallis x hybrida, formerly Senecio hybridus, and Senecio stellata) have daisy-like blooms, usually blue to purple and white, that are cheerful summer annuals in most parts of the country and perennial in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11. 
Florist's Cineraria. Native to the Canary Islands, florist's cineraria (Pericallis x hybrida), is hardy in USDA zones 9b to 10b in sites that receive partial shade to full sun. Its spring and winter blooms are in shades of blue, pink, purple, red and white and are used for cut flower arrangements. The Cineraria genus is considered the true cineraria, but it is not as well-known as other genera's plants that have the name cineraria.. Native to the Canary Islands, florist's cineraria (Pericallis x hybrida), is hardy in USDA zones 9b to 10b in sites that receive partial shade to full sun.
Cineraria Flower. The cineraria flower – sometimes known at the florist’s cineraria – is a hybrid species in the pericallis genus and belongs to the vast compositae family. These plants, which are native to England, grow their best in thoroughly moistened soil and a good deal of shade. What makes cineraria flowers a favorite amongst gardeners and florists is the variety of vibrant colors. These plants may be seen in shades of magenta and violet, blue, white and red; they may be variegated, uniformly bicolored, or have contrasting centers.