Rinse the stainless steel cleanser off. Wash the cleanser off of everywhere you used it. Dry the sink carefully with a clean towel or cloth, dabbing instead of rubbing. Make sure that it is completely dry so that you can easily polish the sink and also so that water spots don't form. http://pad2.whstatic ....
1 Thoroughly rinse out your sink. 2  If you have a stainless sink, salt and acid in food can potentially damage the finish, so it's important to rinse food and liquids to prevent pitting. 3  Sprinkle baking soda onto the surface. 4  Working it into a paste, rinse thoroughly.
1 Vinegar naturally disinfects while helping remove hard water stains from your stainless steel sink. 2  Then lightly rub with the sponge and rinse the sink with water. 3  You can also drop a garbage disposal refreshing bomb down the drain to keep the entire sink smelling fresh.
Use a stainless steel cleanser to clean the sink. Pour a bit of the cleanser on a nonabrasive sponge or cloth and rub the entire sink in with it. http://pad3.whstatic.com/images/thumb/0/02/Clean-a-Dull-Stainless-Steel-Sink-Step-2-preview.jpg/550px-Clean-a-Dull-Stainless-Steel-Sink-Step-2-preview.jpg.
Pin it. To clean your stainless steel sink, just mix a paste of baking soda and water. Scratches may also be removed with a very fine steel wool. Simply give the entire sink a gentle once over and it will obliterate and hairline scratches. Simply wash the residue away and continue with the rest of your cleaning.
1 Clean stainless steel at least once a week. 2  Always apply stainless steel cleaner/polish with a nonabrasive cloth or sponge, working with, not across, the grain. 3  Do not use steel wool, wire brushes or abrasive sponge pads. 4  Use only non-scratch cleaning pads. 5  Cleaners containing chloride (bleach) are not recommended.
To give your stainless steel sink a nice shine follow up with this stainless steel cleaning tip. 1  Apply a small amount of olive oil to a soft cloth. 2  Rub the entire surface of the sink and faucet. 3  Fill a spray bottle with warm water and spray the sink area. 4  Polish the sink with a Sham-Wow or other cloth until it shines.
Pin it. 1  Thoroughly rinse out your sink. 2  If you have a stainless sink, salt and acid in food can potentially damage the finish, so it's important to rinse food and liquids to prevent pitting. 3  Sprinkle baking soda onto the surface. 4  Working it into a paste, rinse thoroughly.