The term purinergic receptor was originally introduced to illustrate specific classes of membrane receptors that mediate relaxation of gut smooth muscle as a response to the release of ATP (P2 receptors) or adenosine (P1 receptors). P1 and P2Y receptors are known to be widely distributed in the brain, heart, kidneys, and adipose tissue. Xanthines (e.g. caffeine) specifically block adenosine receptors, and are known to induce a stimulating effect to one's behavior.
Purinergic receptors, also known as purinoceptors, are a family of plasma membrane molecules that are found in almost all mammalian tissues. Broadly, purinergic receptors and signaling have been implicated in learning and memory, locomotor and feeding behavior, and sleep. The term purinergic receptor was originally introduced to illustrate specific classes of membrane receptors that mediate relaxation of gut smooth muscle as a response to the release of ATP or adenosine. P2 receptors have further been divided into five subclasses: P2X, P2Y, P2Z, P2U, and P2T.
Within the field of purinergic signalling, these receptors have been implicated in learning and memory, locomotor and feeding behavior, and sleep. P1 and P2Y receptors are known to be widely distributed in the brain, heart, kidneys, and adipose tissue. Xanthines (e.g. caffeine) specifically block adenosine receptors, and are known to induce a stimulating effect to one's behavior.
ATP Availability, P2 Receptor Dynamics,and the Purinergic Cascade Under normal physiological conditions, ATP is co-releasedwith a number of neurotransmitters including acetylcholine,norepinephrine, glutamate, g-aminobutyric acid, and neu-ropeptide Y (Burnstock, 1999). ATP isreleased into the extracellular space where it formsthe basis of a purinergic cascade. ATP acts directly onP2X and P2Y receptors (see text) and is degraded toADP and AMP by E-NTPase activity. ADP interactswith P2Y T /P2Y 12 receptors, and ATP can block thisresponse.
Purinergic receptors, also known as purinoceptors, are a family of plasma membrane molecules that are found in almost all mammalian tissues. P1 and P2Y receptors are known to be widely distributed in the brain, heart, kidneys, and adipose tissue. Xanthines (e.g. caffeine) specifically block adenosine receptors, and are known to induce a stimulating effect to one's behavior.
Purinergic receptors are divided into P2 receptors which are activated by a variety of nucleotides and can be further subdivided into ionotropic P2X receptors activated by ATP and the metabotropic G-protein-coupled receptors (P2Y) which are stimulated by nucleotides, di-or triphosphates, purines or pyrimidines. The role of P1 receptors in MSC proliferation is not well studied. There is some evidence suggesting that adenosine and the adenosine A2A receptor are important mediators in stimulating proliferation and differentiation of mouse BM-MSCs [96] .
Purinergic signalling (or signaling: see American and British English differences) is a form of extracellular signalling mediated by purine nucleotides and nucleosides such as adenosine and ATP. It involves the activation of purinergic receptors in the cell and/or in nearby cells, thereby regulating cellular functions. Autocrine purinergic signalling is an important checkpoint in the activation of white blood cells. These mechanisms either enhance or inhibit cell activation based on the purinergic receptors involved, allowing cells to adjust their functional responses initiated by extracellular environmental cues.
Purinergic receptor s are specific classes of membrane receptors that mediate various physiological functions such as the relaxation of gut smooth muscle, as a response to the release of ATP or adenosine. There are three known distinct classes of purinergic receptors, known as P1, P2X, and P2Y receptors. Autocrine purinergic signalling is an important checkpoint in the activation of white blood cells. These mechanisms either enhance or inhibit cell activation based on the purinergic receptors involved, allowing cells to adjust their functional responses initiated by extracellular environmental cues.
Purinergic receptors are one of the evolutionary oldest receptors [9] . The receptor family can be found in almost every mammalian tissue and was initially described in gut smooth muscle cells in the 1970s [7] and [8] . In 2014 the first purinergic receptor, namely DORN1, was discovered in plants [6] . Purinergic receptors are divided into P1 receptors which are preferentially activated by adenosine and P2 receptors which are activated by a variety of nucleotides. The role of P1 receptors in MSC proliferation is not well studied. There is some evidence suggesting that adenosine and the adenosine A2A receptor are important mediators in stimulating proliferation and differentiation of mouse BM-MSCs [96] .