Passiflora incarnata flower and bud. The stems can be smooth or pubescent; they are long and trailing, possessing many tendrils. Leaves are alternate and palmately 3-lobed and occasionally 5-lobed, measuring 6–15 centimetres (2.4–5.9 in). They have two characteristic glands at the base of the blade on the petiole. Flowers have five bluish-white petals.
“Maypops” is a two-season name. Here in Florida and other parts of the south they can blossom in May. But the fruits don’t get big enough to step on and “pop” until June or July. The name comes from “maracock” which is what the Powhatan Indians called it. Green maypops can be cooked like green tomatoes and eaten. You can try eating the pulpy inside of a green one but often the insides have not developed that much appreciated sweet-sour taste. Ripe one can be eaten raw and after a few they are kind of rough on the mouth.
Passiflora incarnata, commonly known as maypop, purple passionflower, true passionflower, wild apricot, and wild passion vine, is a fast-growing perennial vine with climbing or trailing stems. Leaves are alternate and palmately 3-lobed and occasionally 5-lobed, measuring 6–15 centimetres (2.4–5.9 in). They have two characteristic glands at the base of the blade on the petiole. Flowers have five bluish-white petals.
Definition of MAYPOP. : a climbing perennial passionflower (Passiflora incarnata) of the southern United States with a large ovoid yellow edible but insipid berry; also: its fruit. ADVERTISEMENT. 
ENVIRONMENT: Maypops grow in thickets, disturbed ground, unkept pastures, roadsides and railroads. They like full sun and water but good drainage. You will not find them in damp areas. METHOD OF PREPARATION:Green and yellow ripe maypops off the vine, though larger green ones are better than small ones. They can be made in to a jelly or an ade. Green ones better cooked than raw, yellow ones are nice raw. Green maypops can be cooked like green tomatoes and eaten. You can try eating the pulpy inside of a green one but often the insides have not developed that much appreciated sweet-sour taste. Ripe one can be eaten raw and after a few they are kind of rough on the mouth.
Maypops are suitable for butterfly gardens. Passiflora incarnata, commonly called maypop, purple passionflower or wild passion flower, is a fast-growing vine that bears oblong, edible fruits. Fruit Edibility. Ripe maypop fruit has its fans and detractors -- the arils are usually tart-sweet but not as sweet as those found in passion fruit (Passiflora edulis, USDA zones 9b through 11). You can use maypops to make jam or eat the raw fruit. To eat it raw, either strain out the seeds or suck the arils off the seeds. The crunchy seeds are also edible. For maypop fruit that stays green when ripe, larger fruit may taste better
Maypop flowers can reach a width of 3 to 5 inches. Maypop (Passiflora incarnata), also known as wild passion flower or passion vine, is a perennial that can add ornamental interest to a garden. This fast-spreading vine grows dark-green foliage, purple and pink flowers and oval-shaped fruit that can grow up to 3 inches in diameter. About six weeks after planting the maypops, feed them a 10-5-20 fertilizer and repeat the feeding about six weeks thereafter, applying about 3 pounds per plant. Even though maypop vines are drought-tolerant, water them regularly for continuous flower and fruit growth. Keep the soil around the shallow roots of this plant consistently moist -- not soggy. Water the soil to a depth of about 2 inches. Avoid dry soil, because this may lead to premature fruit drop or shriveled fruit
The marked counties are guidelines only. Plants may appear in other counties, especially if used in landscaping. North American distribution, attributed to U. S. Department of Agriculture. The maypop fruit is ripe when it turns from Kermit the Frog green to light green to yellow-orange in color. A better indication of a ripe maypop is a somewhat wrinkly skin whereas the unripe maypop fruit will have a firm, tight feel. 