1 The hormones of the pituitary gland help regulate the functions of other endocrine glands. 2  The pituitary gland has two parts—the anterior lobe and posterior lobe—that have two very separate functions. 3  The hypothalamus sends signals to the pituitary to release or inhibit pituitary hormone production. The pituitary glands are made of the anterior lobe and posterior lobe. The anterior lobe produces and releases hormones. The posterior lobe does not produce hormones per se—this is done by nerve cells in the hypothalamus—but it does release them into the circulation.
Features of the Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is only about the size of a pearl, and is located in the middle part of the brain. It monitors the state of the body through the circulatory and nervous systems, and effectively links these two systems to the endocrine system through the pituitary gland. 
Hormones of the Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones. The hypothalamus plays a significant role in the endocrine system. It is responsible for maintaining your body’s internal balance, which is known as homeostasis. To do this, the hypothalamus helps stimulate or inhibit many of your body’s key processes, including: 1  Heart rate and blood pressure. 2  Body temperature.
The hypothalamus (from Greek ὑπό, under and θάλαμος, room, chamber) is a portion of the brain that contains a number of small nuclei with a variety of functions. One of the most important functions of the hypothalamus is to link the nervous system to the endocrine system via the pituitary gland (hypophysis). The hypothalamus is located below the thalamus, just above the brainstem and is part of the limbic system. In the terminology of neuroanatomy, it forms the ventral part of the diencephalon. All vertebrate brains contain a hypothalamus. In humans, it is the size of an almond.
1 The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body. The hypothalamus plays a significant role in the endocrine system. It is responsible for maintaining your body’s internal balance, which is known as homeostasis. To do this, the hypothalamus helps stimulate or inhibit many of your body’s key processes, including: 1  Heart rate and blood pressure. 2  Body temperature.
The hypothalamus is responsible for certain metabolic processes and other activities of the autonomic nervous system. It synthesizes and secretes certain neurohormones, often called releasing hormones or hypothalamic hormones, and these in turn stimulate or inhibit the secretion of pituitary hormones. The hypothalamus is located below the thalamus, just above the brainstem and is part of the limbic system. In the terminology of neuroanatomy, it forms the ventral part of the diencephalon. All vertebrate brains contain a hypothalamus. In humans, it is the size of an almond.
The hormones from the hypothalamus govern physiologic functions such as temperature regulation, thirst, hunger, sleep, mood, sex drive, and the release of other hormones within the body. This area of the brain houses the pituitary gland and other glands in the body. The hypothalamus uses a set-point to regulate the body's systems, including electrolyte and fluid balance, body temperature, blood pressure, and body weight. It receives inputs from the body, then makes the proper changes if anything differentiates from this set-point.
The hypothalamus is a small but important part of the brain. It contains several small nuclei with a variety of functions. It plays an important role in the nervous system as well as in the endocrine system. It is linked to another small and vital gland called the pituitary gland. 
Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is a part of the brain located superior and anterior to the brain stem and inferior to the thalamus. It serves many different functions in the nervous system, and is also responsible for the direct control of the endocrine system through the pituitary gland. The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands.
It is the reason we know when we are hungry or thirsty. The hypothalamus also helps our body maintain a constant temperature. This part of the brain also controls the pituitary gland, which is the master gland that controls all the other endocrine glands in the body. Thus, the hypothalamus plays a key role in connecting the endocrine system with the nervous system. 