Description [edit]. The common basilisk can be distinguished from similar species within its range by its large size and the high fin-like crests down its back. Most are brown and cream in colour. Males also have high crests on their heads and tails. In Costa Rica, this basilisk can be found as high as 1,200 m in some places. The species ranges from southwestern Nicaragua to northwestern Colombia on the Pacific side, and from central Panama to northwestern Venezuela on the Atlantic side. In Costa Rica, it is mostly found on the Pacific side of the country.
The basilisk is called king because it is reputed to have on its head a mitre-or crown-shaped crest. Stories of the basilisk show that it is not completely distinguished from the cockatrice. The basilisk is alleged to be hatched by a cockerel from the egg of a serpent or toad (the reverse of the cockatrice, which was hatched from a cockerel's egg incubated by a serpent or toad).
The common basilisk (Basiliscus basiliscus) is a lizard found in Central and South American rainforests near rivers and streams. In Costa Rica, this basilisk can be found as high as 1,200 m in some places. The species ranges from southwestern Nicaragua to northwestern Colombia on the Pacific side, and from central Panama to northwestern Venezuela on the Atlantic side. In Costa Rica, it is mostly found on the Pacific side of the country.
There is the same power also in the serpent called the basilisk. It is produced in the province of Cyrene, being not more than twelve fingers in length. It has a white spot on the head, strongly resembling a sort of a diadem. Stories of the basilisk show that it is not completely distinguished from the cockatrice. The basilisk is alleged to be hatched by a cockerel from the egg of a serpent or toad (the reverse of the cockatrice, which was hatched from a cockerel's egg incubated by a serpent or toad).
A basilisk is a Slayer monster that requires a Slayer level of 40 to kill and can be found at the Fremennik Slayer Dungeon. Like cockatrices, players must equip a mirror shield when fighting these monsters. 
It is possible that the legend of the basilisk and its association with the weasel in Europe was inspired by accounts of certain species of Asiatic snakes (such as the king cobra) and their natural predator, the mongoose. Stories of the basilisk show that it is not completely distinguished from the cockatrice. The basilisk is alleged to be hatched by a cockerel from the egg of a serpent or toad (the reverse of the cockatrice, which was hatched from a cockerel's egg incubated by a serpent or toad).
Introduction to Common Basilisk. The Common Basilisk is a type of Lizard that you will find in quite a few regions. It is frequently called the Jesus Lizard due to the fact that it is able to run on top of the water without sinking. 
The common basilisk can be distinguished from similar species within its range by its large size and the high fin-like crests down its back. In Costa Rica, this basilisk can be found as high as 1,200 m in some places. The species ranges from southwestern Nicaragua to northwestern Colombia on the Pacific side, and from central Panama to northwestern Venezuela on the Atlantic side. In Costa Rica, it is mostly found on the Pacific side of the country.
In European bestiaries and legends, a basilisk (/ˈbaezɪlɪsk/ , ˈbæzɪlɪsk from The greek βασιλίσκος, basiliskos basilískos; Little king) latin regulus is a legendary reptile reputed to be king of serpents and said to have the power to cause death with a. single glance Stories of the basilisk show that it is not completely distinguished from the cockatrice. The basilisk is alleged to be hatched by a cockerel from the egg of a serpent or toad (the reverse of the cockatrice, which was hatched from a cockerel's egg incubated by a serpent or toad).
Learn more about this article. The Common Basilisk is a species of basilisk lizard very common in Central America. It is large, with long limbs, a long tail, and, in males, prominent crests on the head, back, and tail. The overall coloration is brown with lighter stripes. 