What an Anoscopy Entails. The anoscope is a rigid hollow tube that is 3 to 4 inches long and about 2 to 3 inches wide. The anoscope is equipped with a light and allows the doctor to examine the anus and rectum in detail. Before the anoscope is inserted into your anus, you’ll be asked to remove your undergarments. Your doctor can usually give you an idea of the results once the exam is complete. An anoscopy can spot a number of problems, including: 1  Abscess: a deposit of pus that can cause swelling and other problems in the tissue around it.
Anoscopy, proctoscopy, and sigmoidoscopy tests allow your doctor to look at the inner lining of your anus, your rectum, and the lower part of the large intestine (colon). These tests use different scopes look at different sections of the colon. 1  Anoscopy. 2  During an anoscopy, a short, rigid, hollow tube (anoscope) that may contain a light source is used to look at the last 2 in. ( 3 5 cm) of the colon (anal canal).
An anoscopy is a procedure that can help a physician identify an abnormality in your gastrointestinal tract, in particular your anus and rectum. To perform an anoscopy, the doctor will insert a device called an anoscope into your anus. Using an anoscope, the doctor can get a detailed look at the tissue inside. Your doctor can usually give you an idea of the results once the exam is complete. An anoscopy can spot a number of problems, including: 1  Abscess: a deposit of pus that can cause swelling and other problems in the tissue around it.
Anoscopy: Anoscopy is a procedure used to visualize the wall of the anus and lowest portion of the rectum. Anoscopy can be performed in the doctor's office without any special preparation to empty the colon. The anoscope is the instrument used to allow visualization of the wall of the anus and identification of abnormalities such as inflammation, tumors, trauma, or hemorrhoids in the anal canal.
FollowingUnfollow SUCCESS! FollowingUnfollow. WebMD. 8,020 Answers. 352,662 Helpful Votes. 387 Followers. A. An anoscopy is an examination of the anus with a short, metal or plastic scope. The anoscopy procedure is used to look for hemorrhoids, anal polyps, or other causes of bright-red rectal bleeding. This answer should not be considered medical advice... 
1 Anoscopy. 2  During an anoscopy, a short, rigid, hollow tube (anoscope) that may contain a light source is used to look at the last 2 in. ( 3 5 cm) of the colon (anal canal). 4  Anoscopy can usually be done at any time because it does not require any special preparation (enemas or laxatives) to empty the colon. These tests use different scopes look at different sections of the colon. 1 
Anoscopy views the anus and anal canal by using an anoscope. An anoscope is a plastic, tube-shaped speculum that is a smaller version of a sigmoidscope. Before the anoscope is used, the doctor completes a digital rectal examination with a lubricated, gloved index finger. During the anoscopy procedure there may be a feeling of pressure or the need to go to the bathroom. If a biopsy is taken, the patient may feel a slight pinch. The procedure is performed on an out-patient basis, and takes approximately an hour to complete.
Anoscopy. A tube called an anoscope is used to look at the inside of your anus and rectum. Doctors use anoscopy to diagnose hemorrhoids, anal fissures (tears in the lining of the anus), and some cancers. To continue reading this article, you must login.
Anoscopy is a test similar to colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy, but it limits the examination to the anal area of the body. During the procedure, a gastroenterologist (GI doctor), colorectal surgeon or proctologist will use a lubricated device called an anoscope to view the inside of a patient’s anus and rectum. During an anoscopy procedure, your doctor may detect hemorrhoids, anal fissures, abscesses (pus that collects and forms a cavity in a patient’s body tissue), fistulas (abnormal tissue connections between the rectum, anus and surrounding skin), inflammation and tumors that may or may not be cancerous.
An anoscopy is an examination using a small, rigid, tubular instrument called an anoscope (also called an anal speculum). This is inserted a few inches into the anus in order to evaluate problems of the anal canal. Anoscopy is used to diagnose hemorrhoids, anal fissures (tears in the lining of the anus), and some cancers.