The name tuna comes from the Greek word meaning 'to rush', an appropriate name as communities of tuna called 'schools' swim very, very fast through the ocean. The average length of a tuna is 2 meters (6.5 feet), but they can sometimes reach lengths of 4 meters or more (13.12 feet). This large fish can weigh up to 680.38kg (1500 pounds). The Atlantic Blue Fin Tuna is the largest of all the tunas and belongs to a group of fish called 'boney fish' - meaning they have a skeleton made up of real bone, not cartilage like sharks.
Albacore fish, albicore, longfin, tombi ahi, binnaga, Pacific albacore, longfin tunny, longfin tuna, or tuna. Other tuna species that are also called albacore in other parts of the world include Blackfin tuna, Yellowfin tuna, Yellowtail amberjack, Kawakawa and Little tunny. Albacore tuna are a species of tuna fish that migrate around the world in semi-shallow waters of oceans and seas. They are not bottom-dwellers like cod and haddock.
A group of fishes is called a school of fish. In commercial fishing, a very large group of fish may look on the sonar like a shoal (an area where the sea floor is relatively … close to the surface, and will be called a shoal of fish. A group of marine mammals is often called a pod, as in a pod of porpoises. 1 person found this useful. 1 Quick and Easy Tuna Fish Recipe Everyone loves a good, old-fashioned, tuna fish sandwich. 2  This is a slight variation of a traditional tuna fish sandwich recipe, adding a few neat ingredients to give it some…. 3  Secrets to Grilling Tuna Grilled tuna is one of the most popular and delicious seafood dishes.
1 Researchers have recently discovered that tuna contains the mineral selenium in an unusual form called selenoneine. 2  This form of selenium plays an important role in the health of the fish by serving as an antioxidant and protecting the fish's red blood cells from free radical damage. 
Tuna are types of fish.   ======   Tuna are very fast swimming fish. This ability (present in all ray-finned fish), is due to the bony spikes that support their fins.  …  Its flesh is pinkish coloured, due to its higher oxygen-carrying ability. 1 Sending Mail to a List With Hotmail When you want to reach a large group of people via the Internet, one of the best means for doing so is a mailing list. 2  In order to do so as inexpensively as possible, you can…. 3  Tuna Spaghetti Recipe This tuna spaghetti recipe features the fresh flavors of tomatoes and basil.
A tuna is a saltwater finfish that belongs to the tribe Thunnini, a sub-grouping of the mackerel family (Scombridae) – which together with the tunas, also includes the bonitos, mackerels, and Spanish mackerels. The bluefin averages 2 m (6.6 ft), and is believed to live for up to 50 years. Tuna and mackerel sharks are the only species of fish that can maintain a body temperature higher than that of the surrounding water.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The albacore (Thunnus alalunga) is a type of tuna in the family Scombridae. This species may also be called albacore fish, albacore tuna, bastard albacore, longfin, albies, pigfish, Pacific albacore, German bonito (but see bonito), longfin tuna, longfin tunny, or even just tuna. It is the only tuna species which may be marketed as white meat tuna in the United States. It is found in the open waters of all tropical and temperate oceans, and the Mediterranean Sea. Lengths range up to 140 cm and weights up to 60.3 kg. Albacore is a prized food, and albacore fishery is economically significant.
Since the word tuna is than … applied to a variety of things (for example tuna is also the fruit of a prickly pear cactus); it has simply become common to state tuna fish rather than risk implying you meant tuna pear or any other misnaming that uses the term tuna. 7 people found this useful. 1 Sending Mail to a List With Hotmail When you want to reach a large group of people via the Internet, one of the best means for doing so is a mailing list. 2  In order to do so as inexpensively as possible, you can…. 3  Tuna Spaghetti Recipe This tuna spaghetti recipe features the fresh flavors of tomatoes and basil.
The yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) is a species of tuna found in pelagic waters of tropical and subtropical oceans worldwide. Yellowfin is often marketed as ahi, from the Hawaiian ʻahi, a name also used there for the closely related bigeye tuna. The yellowfin tuna is also a highly prized catch in the offshore sport fisheries of South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand. Sport fishing for yellowfin tuna exists on a smaller scale in many other parts of the world.
Albacore tuna is one of the most commonly fished species in the world. It is most commonly processed by manufacturers into canned tuna. The fish can also be grilled, baked, pan-fried or otherwise cooked to a much rarer degree (than canned tuna) for a higher price than canned varieties. Albacore tuna are a species of tuna fish that migrate around the world in semi-shallow waters of oceans and seas. They are not bottom-dwellers like cod and haddock.