Hormones of the Adrenal Glands. The adrenal cortex and the adrenal medulla have very different functions. One of the main distinctions between them is that the hormones released by the adrenal cortex are necessary for life; those secreted by the adrenal medulla are not. Anatomy of the Adrenal Glands. The adrenal glands are two, triangular-shaped organs that measure about 1.5 inches in height and 3 inches in length. They are located on top of each kidney. Their name directly relates to their location (ad —near or at; renes —kidneys).
Diseases of the adrenal glands usually are caused by either too much or too little of any of these hormones. Adrenal insufficiency occurs when the adrenal gland is not producing enough hormones and is also called Addison's diseaseAddison's disease-a disease where not enough of the adrenal hormones are being made. The cortex is located on the outer layer of the adrenal gland and makes a number of different hormones that help control the heart, kidneys, GI tract, bones, genitalia, and immune system. These hormones control carbohydrate metabolism, muscular integrity, hemodynamic changes, and sexual maturity
A American Association of Endocrine Surgeons answered. The adrenal gland makes a number of different hormones. The outer layer – cortex -- produces mineralocorticoids (e.g. aldosterone), glucocorticoids (e.g. cortisol), and sex steroids (e.g. testosterone and progesterone). 
Your adrenal glands make hormones. One of these is cortisol, which helps your body deal with stress. According to the adrenal fatigue theory, if your life is too stressful, your adrenal glands may not pump out enough hormones, leading to a wide variety of symptoms. But there's no evidence to support this theory. 
Adrenal glands work interactively with the hypothalamus and pituitary gland in the brain. For example, for the adrenal gland to produce corticosteroid hormones: The hypothalamus produces corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) that stimulates the pituitary gland to produce adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH). The adrenal cortex secretes corticosteroids and other hormones directly into the bloodstream. The hormones produced by the adrenal cortex include: Cortisol. This hormone helps control the body's use of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates.
1 The adrenal cortex—the outer part of the gland—produces hormones that are vital to life, such as cortisol (which helps regulate metabolism and helps your body respond to stress) and aldosterone (which helps control blood pressure). Anatomy of the Adrenal Glands. The adrenal glands are two, triangular-shaped organs that measure about 1.5 inches in height and 3 inches in length. They are located on top of each kidney. Their name directly relates to their location (ad —near or at; renes —kidneys).
Adrenal glands, which are also called suprarenal glands, are small, triangular glands located on top of both kidneys. An adrenal gland is made of two parts--the outer region is called the adrenal cortex and the inner region is called the adrenal medulla. The adrenal cortex secretes corticosteroids and other hormones directly into the bloodstream. The hormones produced by the adrenal cortex include: Cortisol. This hormone helps control the body's use of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates.
The adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are endocrine glands that produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone and cortisol. They are found above the kidneys and consist of a series of layers with different structure and functions. The adrenal cortex itself is divided into three zones: zona glomerulosa, the zona fasciculata and the zona reticularis. The adrenal cortex produces a class of steroid hormones called corticosteroids, named according to their effects.
Two of the most important adrenal hormones are cortisol and aldosterone. The adrenal glands also produce adrenaline and small amounts of sex hormones called androgens, among other hormones. Adrenal disorders can be caused by too much or too little of a particular hormone.... The adrenal glands, located at the top of each kidney, produce hormones that help the body control blood sugar, burn protein and fat, react to stressors like a major illness or injury, and regulate blood pressure.