In most cases, courses of the Levaquin® drug last between 7 and 14 days, with more severe infections require two weeks of Levaquin® treatments. General guidelines for taking Levaquin® include: 1  Only take Levaquin® as instructed by your doctor or pharmacist. 2  Never take more Levaquin® than recommended (This means don’t take larger doses AND don’t take the medication for longer than prescribed). 3  Drink a full (8-ounce) glass of water when taking Levaquin®. 1 Should a patient miss a dose of Levaquin®, they should take the missed Levaquin® dose as soon as they remember (unless it’s almost time for the next dose, then patients should just wait for the next dose and not double up on doses). 2  Seek emergency medical care in the event of a Levaquin® overdose.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Levaquin sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. Additional Levaquin Information. 1  Levaquin Drug Interactions Center: levofloxacin oral. 2  Levaquin Side Effects Center. 3  Levaquin in detail including Side Effects and Drug Images. 4  Levaquin Overview including Precautions.
Levofloxacin is an antibacterial prescription medicine approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of certain infections, including pneumonia, acute worsening of chronic bronchitis, anthrax, urinary tract infections, acute sinus infections, and others. The above list may not include all of the HIV-related uses of levofloxacin recommended in the Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Infected Adults and Adolescents. Some recommended uses, such as uses in certain rare circumstances, may have been omitted.
Levofloxacin (trade names Levaquin (US), Tavanic (EU), and others) is a broad-spectrum antibiotic of the fluoroquinolone drug class, and the levo isomer of its predecessor ofloxacin. Levofloxacin plays an important role in professional medical society guidelines for the treatment of pneumonia, urinary tract infections, and abdominal infections.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. LEVAQUIN® is a synthetic broad-spectrum antibacterial agent for oral and intravenous administration. Chemically, levofloxacin, a chiral fluorinated carboxyquinolone, is the pure (-)(S)-enantiomer of the racemic drug substance ofloxacin. The chemical name is (-)-(S)-9-fluoro- 2 ... Additional Levaquin Information. 1  Levaquin Drug Interactions Center: levofloxacin oral. 2  Levaquin Side Effects Center. 3  Levaquin in detail including Side Effects and Drug Images. 4  Levaquin Overview including Precautions.
Stop using levofloxacin and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain and severe dizziness, fainting, fast or pounding heartbeats; 2  sudden pain, snapping or popping sound, bruising, swelling, tenderness, stiffness, or loss of movement in any of your joints; Additional Levaquin Information. 1  Levaquin Drug Interactions Center: levofloxacin oral. 2  Levaquin Side Effects Center. 3  Levaquin in detail including Side Effects and Drug Images. 4  Levaquin Overview including Precautions.
Before taking levofloxacin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other quinolone antibiotics (such as ciprofloxacin, moxifloxacin, ofloxacin); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Additional Levaquin Information. 1  Levaquin Drug Interactions Center: levofloxacin oral. 2  Levaquin Side Effects Center. 3  Levaquin in detail including Side Effects and Drug Images. 4  Levaquin Overview including Precautions.
® doses of 750 mg once daily, 250 mg once daily, and 500 mg once or twice daily. Discontinuation of LEVAQUIN ® due to adverse drug reactions occurred in 4.3% of patients overall, 3.8% of patients treated with the 250 mg and 500 mg doses and 5.4% of patients treated with the 750 mg dose. Injection Following Dilution: LEVAQUIN ® Injection, when diluted in a compatible intravenous fluid to a concentration of 5 mg/mL, is stable for 72 hours when stored at or below 25°C (77°F) and for 14 days when stored under refrigeration at 5°C (41°F) in plastic intravenous containers.
More information about levofloxacin is available: 1  Recommendations on the HIV-related uses of levofloxacin, from the Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Infected Adults and Adolescents, prepared by CDC, NIH, and IDSA-HIVMA. The above list may not include all of the HIV-related uses of levofloxacin recommended in the Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Infected Adults and Adolescents. Some recommended uses, such as uses in certain rare circumstances, may have been omitted.
Janssen's Levaquin Patient Assistance Program. Janssen's Levaquin patient assistance program helps with free or discount Levaquin. Get free or discount Levaquin by applying for Janssen's Levaquin patient assistance program (PAP). Rx help is available to those who meet the Levaquin PAP guidelines below. Levaquin prescription assistance is sponsored by Janssen to help low-income and uninsured patients get expensive brand-name Levaquin either for free or at a large discount. 