DEFINITION of 'Tariff'. A tax imposed on imported goods and services. Tariffs are used to restrict trade, as they increase the price of imported goods and services, making them more expensive to consumers. A specific tariff is levied as a fixed fee based on the type of item (e.g., $1,000 on any car). An ad-valorem tariff is levied based on the item’s value (e.g., 10% of the car’s value). Tariffs provide additional revenue for governments and domestic producers at the expense of consumers and foreign producers. They are one of several tools available to shape trade policy.
How it works/Example: There are generally two types of tariffs. Ad valorem tariffs are calculated as a fixed percentage of the value of the imported good. When the international price of a good rises or falls, so does the tariff. A specific tariff is a fixed amount of money that does not vary with the price of the good. In some cases, both the ad valorem and specific tariffs are levied on the same product.
A tariff is a tax on an imported good. Therefore for each unit of a good that is imported into a country the tariff increases the price of that good by however much the tariff is. Tariffs are usually implemented when the world price of a good is lower than the domestic price of a good. Answer Tariffs are a tax on importation, when you import a product over to a different country you have to pay a Tariff which is also known as a Tax when it first arrives in the country. Tariffs make the product your importing more expensive.
A tariff is a tax on imports or exports. Money collected under a tariff is called a duty or customs duty. Tariffs are used by governments to generate revenue or to protect domestic industries from competition. When the international price of a good rises or falls, so does the tariff. A specific tariff is a fixed amount of money that does not vary with the price of the good. In some cases, both the ad valorem and specific tariffs are levied on the same product.
A tariff is a tax on imports or exports (an international trade tariff). In other languages and very occasionally in English, tariff or its equivalent may also be used to describe any list of prices (electrical tariff, etc.). A customs duty or due is the indirect tax levied on the import or export of goods in international trade. In economic sense, a duty is also a kind of consumption tax. A duty levied on goods being imported is referred to as an import duty. Similarly, a duty levied on exports is called an export duty. A tariff, which is actually a list of commodities along with the leviable rate (amount) of customs duty, is popularly referred to as a customs duty
10 most extreme places on Earth. An import tariff is a tax placed by governments on commodities that are shipped into a country from a foreign country. These taxes are often a way to discourage a country's consumers from buying products from another country and to support domestic products and services. Governments also can impose a two-part tariff, which includes a specific and an ad valorem tariff. A product with a two-part tariff would have a set tax as well as a value-based percentage tax. Ad. An import tariff can have a negative or positive effect on the country imposing the tariff.
Import Tariffs. An import tariff is a tax collected on imported goods. Generally speaking, a tariff is any tax or fee collected by a government. Sometimes tariff is used in a non-trade context, as in railroad tariffs. However, the term is much more commonly applied to a tax on imported goods. 
A tariff is a tax on an imported good. Therefore for each unit of a good that is imported into a country the tariff in … creases the price of that good by however much the tariff is. Answer Tariffs are a tax on importation, when you import a product over to a different country you have to pay a Tariff which is also known as a Tax when it first arrives in the country. Tariffs make the product your importing more expensive.