1 Ultimately, man should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather must recognize that it is he who is asked. 2  In a word, each man is questioned by life; and he can only answer to life by answering for his own life; to life he can only respond by being responsible. In Monty Python's The Meaning of Life, there are several allusions to the meaning of life. At the end of the film, a character played by Michael Palin is handed an envelope containing the meaning of life, which he opens and reads out to the audience: Well, it's nothing very special.
1 amuse-bouche, amuse-guele-Amuse-bouche and amuse-guele both mean literally something to please the mouth, and both refer to an appetizer or pre-meal tidbit. 3. to be the pleasure or will of: May it please your Majesty. 4. to like, wish, or feel inclined: Go where you please. 5. to give pleasure or satisfaction; be agreeable: manners that please. if you please, a. if it be your pleasure; if you like or wish.
The meaning of life as we perceive it is derived from our philosophical and religious contemplation of, and scientific inquiries about existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness. In Monty Python's The Meaning of Life, there are several allusions to the meaning of life. At the end of the film, a character played by Michael Palin is handed an envelope containing the meaning of life, which he opens and reads out to the audience: Well, it's nothing very special.
verb. verb. 1  To give enjoyment, pleasure, or satisfaction to; make glad or contented. 2  To be the will or desire of: May it please the court to admit this firearm as evidence. To please is to make someone happy or satisfied. 1  An example of please is when your actions make someone happy. 2  An example of please is when you can go wherever you like.
1. give pleasure to or be pleasing to. 2. be the will of or have the will (to). 3. give satisfaction. Familiarity information: PLEASE used as a verb is uncommon. • PLEASE (adverb). The adverb PLEASE has 1 sense: 1. used in polite request. Familiarity information: PLEASE used as an adverb is very rare. 
This phrase is used to describe something that someone will like. To please the eye means that the person likes what they see. The meaning of the eye simply is protection, it was a popular symbol to the egyptians representing Horus and his protection. Although people do have their own weird thoughts and beliefs, it is not a bad symbol. They probably do not know the history or story behind that exotic eye.
Full Definition of PLEASE. intransitive verb. 1. : to afford or give pleasure or satisfaction. 2. 3. transitive verb. 1. : to give pleasure to: gratify. 2. 
please. 1. (used as a polite addition to requests, commands, etc.) if you would be so obliging; kindly: Please come here. 2. to give pleasure or gratification to: to please the public. 3. to be the pleasure or will of: May it please your Majesty. 4. to like, wish, or feel inclined: Go where you please. 5. to give pleasure or satisfaction; be agreeable: manners that please. if you please, a. if it be your pleasure; if you like or wish.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Lady Chipmunk. Confidence votes 2.0K. The meaning of Please Hear What I'm Not Saying is a person who is pretending to be someone who they aren't and want to change that and be who they really are. 
please. 1  amuse-bouche, amuse-guele-Amuse-bouche and amuse-guele both mean literally something to please the mouth, and both refer to an appetizer or pre-meal tidbit. 2  like-Comes from Germanic likam, appearance, body, form; the verb came from likojam, which, as like, originally meant please.. 3. to be the pleasure or will of: May it please your Majesty. 4. to like, wish, or feel inclined: Go where you please. 5. to give pleasure or satisfaction; be agreeable: manners that please. if you please, a. if it be your pleasure; if you like or wish.