Submitted by Ram on. The amount of Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits you are entitled to if you are found to be completely disabled by the Social Security Administration (SSA) is based on the full amount of retirement benefits you are eligible for. 
For people at full retirement age, being able to work and collect Social Security with no loss of benefits is a relatively new thing. Social Security was created in 1935, but it was another 65 years before people at full retirement age could work and collect Social Security benefits at the same time. For many, one of the questions most on their minds is whether they can work and still collect Social Security benefits--and what happens if they do. Answer: Yes, you can collect Social Security retirement or survivors benefits and work at the same time, but there are a few conditions. If you are at your full retirement age or older, you can keep all of your Social Security benefits no matter how much money you earn from work
Yes, you can be eligible for both SSI and social security disability benefits at the same time. To explain, let's start by stating that the two disability programs that SSA, the Social Security Administration, administers are exclusive of each other. 
The short answer is yes, you can receive both Workers Compensation and Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits if you qualify for both. They are separate programs. SSDI, which is run by the Social Security Administration (SSA), is federal program. Workers Compensation programs are run by your home state. 
In some circumstances, you can receive both Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits at the same time. This is commonly referred to as “concurrent benefits”. Likewise, even if you don’t have the work history/credits to receive SSDI benefits, you may still qualify for SSI. However, if you meet the financial and medical requirements, there are instances in which you can qualify to receive both SSI and SSDI
Share on Google Plus. You can't receive Social Security retirement benefits and disability benefits at the same time (with one small exception, which we'll discuss below). 
Qualifying for Retirement Benefits. To qualify for retirement, you must have at least 40 work credits by the time you get to full retirement age. You earn a work credit by making a certain amount of money ($1,130 in 2012) from a job or from self-employment, and paying Social Security taxes on that income. If you're on disability, Social Security closes your case when you reach full retirement age, and it simply renames the benefits retirement.. You don't have a choice in the matter, and you can't draw both disability and
You are permitted to collect Social Security disability payments and, at the same time, private disability payments from an insurance policy or coverage from your employer. You may also receive Department of Veterans Affairs disability benefits at the same time as Social Security disability benefits. While you may collect workers’ compensation benefits at the same time as Social Security disability benefits, the total of your disability and workers’ compensation payments cannot be greater than 80% of what your average wages were before you became disabled.
How Work Affects Your Benefits Y ou can get Social Security retirement or survivors benefits and work at the same time. But, if you’re younger than full retirement age, and earn more than certain amounts, your benefits will be reduced. The amount that your benefits are reduced, however, isn’t truly lost. 