Ive been on geodon for 10 years and eventually was On such a low dose 40 mg that I just quit cold turkey. I did up my seroquel to 400 mg to eliminate the withdrawls. (im quite the pharmacist) I have actually been loosing weight rapidly. So glad I found the right cocktail! i'm 29 its about damn time!! Read More. I've gone through the same kind of bipolar depression and geodon didnt help at all, it just me really hungry and sleep for 18 hours after each 40 mg dose ... seroquel does work but stay at a low dosage or better yet lamictal is supposed to have antidepressant features.
The recommended dose is 10 mg to 20 mg administered as required up to a maximum dose of 40 mg per day. Doses of 10 mg may be administered every two hours; doses of 20 mg may be administered every four hours up to a maximum of 40 mg/day. GEODON for Injection is available in a single-dose vial as ziprasidone mesylate (20 mg ziprasidone/mL when reconstituted according to label instructions) [see Acute Treatment of Agitation in Schizophrenia ].
Geodon Dosing for Schizophrenia. The recommended starting dose of Geodon for schizophrenia is 20 mg twice daily with food. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase your Geodon dose up to a maximum of 80 mg twice daily. Geodon Dosing for Bipolar Disorder. The recommended starting dose of Geodon for bipolar disorder is 40 mg twice daily with food. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase your Geodon dose up to a maximum of Geodon 80 mg twice daily. 
Efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a dose range of 20 mg to 100 mg twice daily in short-term, placebo-controlled clinical trials. There were trends toward dose response within the range of 20 mg to 80 mg twice daily, but results were not consistent. GEODON for Injection is available in a single-dose vial as ziprasidone mesylate (20 mg ziprasidone/mL when reconstituted according to label instructions) [see Acute Treatment of Agitation in Schizophrenia ].
Dose Selection--Oral ziprasidone should be administered at an initial daily dose of 40 mg twice daily with food. The dose may then be increased to 60 mg or 80 mg twice daily on the second day of treatment and subsequently adjusted on the basis of tolerance and efficacy within the range 40 mg-80 mg twice daily. GEODON for Injection is available in a single-dose vial as ziprasidone mesylate (20 mg ziprasidone/mL when reconstituted according to label instructions) [see Acute Treatment of Agitation in Schizophrenia ].
The recommended dose is 10 mg to 20 mg administered as required up to a maximum dose of 40 mg per day. Doses of 10 mg may be administered every two hours; doses of 20 mg may be administered every four hours up to a maximum of 40 mg/day. Intramuscular administration of ziprasidone for more than three consecutive days has not been studied. GEODON Capsules are differentiated by capsule color/size and are imprinted in black ink with Pfizer and ZDX [dosage strength] or Pfizer and a unique number. GEODON Capsules are supplied for oral administration in 20 mg (blue/white), 40 mg (blue/blue), 60 mg (white/white), and 80 mg (blue/white) capsules.
Because of a seizure history, my psychiatrist would like to keep my Clozaril dose as low as possible. I've had side effects on other antipsychotics: Seroquel, Risperdal, Saphris, Invega, Geodon, Abilify I'm allergic to the medication Thorazine. Read More. I've gone through the same kind of bipolar depression and geodon didnt help at all, it just me really hungry and sleep for 18 hours after each 40 mg dose ... seroquel does work but stay at a low dosage or better yet lamictal is supposed to have antidepressant features.
1 Acute treatment of manic/mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: Initiate at 40 mg twice daily. 2  Increase to 60 mg or 80 mg twice daily on day 2 of treatment. 3  Subsequent dose adjustments should be based on tolerability and efficacy within the range of 40–80 mg twice daily. GEODON Capsules are differentiated by capsule color/size and are imprinted in black ink with Pfizer and ZDX [dosage strength] or Pfizer and a unique number. GEODON Capsules are supplied for oral administration in 20 mg (blue/white), 40 mg (blue/blue), 60 mg (white/white), and 80 mg (blue/white) capsules.