sinensis is probably native to western Yunnan, while C. sinensis var. assamica is native to the warmer parts of Assam (India), Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and southern China. 'Wild' tea plants can be found growing in forests, but these may be relics of past cultivation.
Australia’s natural antiseptic, Tea Tree Oil is distilled from specially selected Melaleuca alternifolia leaves, a plant native to the coastal regions of northern New South Wales and south eastern Queensland, Australia.
One of the most exotic herb plants you can grow is the tea tree plant. A popular tea tree variety is the melaleuca alternifolia; this nice looking plant, plus it is used as a source for tea tree oil.
Melaleuca alternifolia (tea tree) was one of 12 star plants featured in the Landscape, which took you on a journey across a whole continent, from eastern Australia’s coastal habitat, through the arid red centre, to the western Australian granite outcrop featuring unique and highly endangered plants.
Tea tree oil (TTO), also called melaleuca oil, is made from the leaves of the tea tree plant (Melaleuca alternifolia) , a member of the myrtle tree family, which is native to Australia.
If you want to keep the tea tree plant from growing too big you will have to prune the top of the plant and minimize the size of the pot it is planted in. One of the most important elements of growing a potted tea tree plant is to ensure that you give it a lot of water.
Avoid in people with a known allergy or sensitivity to tea tree oil (Melaleuca alternifolia), to any of its parts, Balsam of Peru, benzoin, colophony (rosin) tinctures, eucalyptol, or to plants that are members of the myrtle (Myrtaceae) family.
The evergreen tree is native to Australia in wet lowland locations and grows about 10 to 25 feet. It has papery white bark, dark-green needle-like leaves and colorful flowers. Tea Tree belongs to a family of about 200 species of evergreen trees. The leaves are steam distilled to extract the clear essential oil.
The tea plant is an evergreen of the Camellia family that is native to China, Tibet and northern India. There are two main varieties of the tea plant.