Marco Jack the Bichon Frise at 10 months old. Sunny the Bichon at 19 months old— She's a purebred Bichon Frise and is a wonderful dog who loves everyone...especially children!. Muffin the Bichon Frise at about 5 years old—Muffin likes long walks and runs which he gets often! Suzi the Bichon Frise at 5 years old. Suzi the Bichon Frise at 5 years old. Suzi the Bichon Frise at 5 years old. 1  Bichon Frise Pictures 1.
To answer the question asked above, how long will my Bichon live?, you need to ask questions regarding the ages at time of death of any known ancestors. You may be surprised to find that some have lived to 18 or 19 and may even learn of an ancestor reaching age 20 or 21 years. So how long can you expect to have a Bichon with you? Health data kept by BFCA includes information regarding cause of death and age at time of death from BFCA surveys and that provided by both breeders and pet owners, making it is possible to estimate a potential age range.
The average life expectancy for a Bichon Frise is 15-20 years!! xx. 
A long-lived breed, the Bichon Frise can often live to 15 or 16 years of age, so this is another factor that must be seriously contemplated before deciding that this is really the breed for you. Clearly when taking a new pet into your home, the most important aim will be that the dog remains with you for life. The normal Bichon weight is approximately 10 to 18 pounds, depending on the size of the dog, about fifteen pounds on the average—when full grown. The preferred size range is 9 ½ to 11 1/2 inches for dogs and bitches. However, according to the AKC, dogs and bitches 9 to 12 inches, are still considered in the standard.
The Bichon Frise is a small to medium size dog – The AKC does not specify how much the dog should weigh. The normal Bichon weight is approximately 10 to 18 pounds, depending on the size of the dog, about fifteen pounds on the average—when full grown. The preferred size range is 9 ½ to 11 1/2 inches for dogs and bitches. However, according to the AKC, dogs and bitches 9 to 12 inches, are still considered in the standard.
Bich-Poo (also known as Poochon, Bichpoo, Bichon Poodle). Bich-Poo. Mix: ½ Bichon Frise & ½ Poodle. Size: Toy size = 6 – 12 pounds, miniature size = 13 – 18 pounds, height ranges 9 – 14 inches. Coat: Coat is medium long, coarse in texture, with loose curls. Coat color is usually white, but can also come in black, apricot, or blue. 
My Bichon is currently 9 years old. However, one month ago she almost died from closed pyometra. Her stomach got huge. I took her into the vet and they said she was just gaining weight and I should feed her less. I got a second opinion when she became ill and was unable to move. well normally buchon frises life span are usually 12-15 yrs. but with proper care she could live to 18 years as long as you feed her right and treat her right.
If done on a daily basis, it will take approximately 15 minutes. Pet cut Bichons will have a shorter coat and should go to the groomers for cuts every 6 to 8 weeks. Show cut Bichons, in full show coat, (the coat is kept longer) should go to the groomers at least monthly or sooner. It is very important if you maintain the Bichon in show coat to brush them on a daily basis. The cost for grooming varies but the average cost is between $35 and $50. For a lot of the groomers, it will depend on how many mats they find and how long it takes to get them out. However, according to the AKC, dogs and bitches, 9 to 12 inches, are still considered in the standard. The AKC does not specify how much the dog should weigh. However, the normal Bichon weight is approximately 10 to 18 pounds, depending on the size of the dog. The Bichon Frise is a white dog
Hi there I to have a bichon he is nearly 5 years old now and touch wood no health issues. Bichons typically live to a ripe old age (16 years old) they are one of the longest living breeds. I am so glad she is much better and acting like a bichon should. I found a great website for bichon products http://www.bichonhotel.co.uk and they support the bichon frise rescue society. well normally buchon frises life span are usually 12-15 yrs. but with proper care she could live to 18 years as long as you feed her right and treat her right.