One second is equal to 1/86,400 of a mean solar day. This is easy to derive from the fact that there are 60 seconds in a minute, 60 minutes in an hour, and 24 hours in a mean solar day. This definition is, however, subject to limited accuracy because of irregularities in the earth's orbit around the sun.
In these contexts, it is also known as an arc second or a second of arc, and is equal to exactly 1/3600 of an angular degree or 1/1,296,000 of a circle. Sixty arc seconds comprise an arc minute; 60 arc minutes comprise an angular degree.
Word Root of SECOND. The Latin word sequī, meaning “ to follow, ” and its form secutus give us the roots sequ and sec. Words from the Latin sequī have something to do with following. Something sec ond follows what came first. A sequ el is a book or movie that follows another and continues the story.
Full Definition of SECOND. 1. f: being the forward gear or speed next higher than first in a motor vehicle. 2. : relating to or having a part typically subordinate to and lower in pitch than the first part in concerted or ensemble music.
The definition of second is the next in order after the first. An example of someone who is second is the person who finished the race just after the winner. Second is defined as a repeat of something you’ve already done. An example of second is the next trip taken to the buffet. The definition of a second is a small bit of time, with 60 seconds making up one minute. An example of a second is the time it takes you to say Mississippi. To second is to support someone’s nomination or idea.
The second (abbreviation, s or sec) is the Standard International (SI) unit of time. One second is the time that elapses during 9,192,631,770 (9.192631770 x 10 9) cycles of the radiation produced by the transition between two levels of the cesium 133 atom. There are other expressions for the second.
Abbreviations: CGPM, CIPM, BIPM. The unit of time, the second, was defined originally as the fraction 1/86 400 of the mean solar day. The exact definition of mean solar day was left to astronomical theories.
It is qualitatively defined as the second division of the hour by sixty, the first division by sixty being the minute. It is quantitatively defined in terms of a certain number of periods – about 9 billion – of a certain frequency of radiation from the caesium atom: a so-called atomic clock.