Best Answer: It's both....a juris DOCTORATE is, of course, a DOCTORAL degree. The professional doctorates include JD (law), MD (medicine), DVM (veterinary medicine), etc. In the US the highest doctorate is the PhD, Doctor of Philosophy. JD and MD are professional doctorates. There is some discussion in more rarefied academic circles in the US about whether the JD is a proper doctorate.
Typically, a professional law degree is conferred as a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree, while the Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree generally signifies academic research, writing or independent legal studies. View 10 Popular Schools ». Several law schools offer both master's and professional degree programs. 
The Juris Doctor degree (J.D. or JD) or Doctor of Jurisprudence degree (D.Jur. or DJur) is a professional doctorate and first professional graduate degree in law. The degree is earned by completing law school in the United States, Canada, Australia, and other common law countries. Many who hold the degree of Juris Doctor are individuals who practice law and may choose to focus their practice on criminal law, tort, family law, corporate law, and/or a wide range of other areas. J.D.'s are not generally awarded in the People's Republic of China (P.R.C.) instead，a J.M. (Juris Magister) is awarded as the counterpart of JD in the United States, the professional degree in law in China. The primary law degree in the P.R.C. is the bachelor of law.
Just to clarify, it is called a Juris Doctor, not a Juris Doctorate (which is an inexistent term, and which confusingly connotes a doctorate, e.g. J.S.D. or Ph.D.). (see http://www.law.umich.edu/connection/a2z/... Although it is a first degree IN LAW, a Juris Doctor degree is a post-graduate degree. For instance, a Ph.D. happens to be a terminal degree, while a Bachelors' is a first degree. A J.D. or Juris Doctorate is what we call a professional doctorate, similar to the M.D. program for those in the medical profession.
The JD Degree. The Juris Doctor (JD) degree is required to practice law in the United States. It is considered the first degree in law. The JD degree is offered by American Bar Association (ABA)-approved law schools, by law schools that are not ABA-approved, and by many Canadian law schools.
When you hear about becoming a lawyer, you might wonder if law school involves the pursuit of a master's degree or a professional degree. In general, someone going to law school is likely pursuing a Juris Doctor (J.D.), which is a professional law degree. 
DEFINITION of 'Juris Doctor-JD'. A law degree in the United States that was originally designed as a replacement to the Bachelor of Laws degree. A Juris Doctor or Juris Doctorate (JD) represents professional recognition that the holder has a doctoral degree in law. 
A PhD is generally considered as the next step up from the Masters, and to my knowledge, is the highest degree attainable at this time. It is the actual Doctorate's degree, whereas the Juris Doctor (Doctor of Jurisprudence) is not an actual Doctorate. The Master of Laws, LLM, and LLD, Doctor of Laws (which is generally a foreign degree) and the JSD, the actual Doctorates, can be acquired only after the JD. I think the JD is basically in a class by itself (or as we might say in legal parlance, sui generis). It's a professional degree, and so you really can't fairly compare it to other kinds of graduate degrees for other fields.
Essentially it's a professional doctorate. All higher degrees carrying the title of Doctor of This or Doctor of That (JD, MD, DD, PhD) are doctoral degrees. In the US the highest doctorate is the PhD, Doctor of Philosophy. JD and MD are professional doctorates. There is some discussion in more rarefied academic circles in the US about whether the JD is a proper doctorate. Some folk who have PhDs (Doctor of Philosophy) consider the JD to be of a lesser academic standard-more akin to a slightly advanced master's degree