Best Answer: Gene expression is a process in which Genes are transcribed into RNA and then translated to make proteins. Gene expression occurs in two major stages. 1) Transcription: In this process, the gene is copied to produce an RNA molecule (a primary transcript) with essentially the same sequence as the gene. Most human genes are divided into exons and introns, and only the exons carry information required for protein synthesis. · just now. Report Abuse. Gene expression is the expression of pieces of DNA that code for a particular trait in an organism. Transcription and translation are the stages involved in converting the nucleotide sequence in DNA to a functional protein.
The first stage of gene expression is known as transcription. This is the process by which RNA Polymerase, along with other transcription factors, reads and transcribes the DN … A sequence into a complementary RNA strand. 3 people found this useful. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The first stage is called the transcription. During transcription, an RNA copy of gene is made.During translation, the second stage of gene expression,three different kinds of RNA work together to assemble amino acids into a protein molecule.
Gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. These products are often proteins, but in non-protein coding genes such as transfer RNA (tRNA) or small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes, the product is a functional RNA. The production of RNA copies of the DNA is called transcription, and is performed in the nucleus by RNA polymerase, which adds one RNA nucleotide at a time to a growing RNA strand. This RNA is complementary to the template 3' → 5' DNA strand, which is itself complementary to the coding 5' → 3' DNA strand.
Transcription is the process by which a transcript (mRNA) of the gene is created. Transcription factors can recruit the rest of the mRNA creating machinery to the target gene. The number and types of other factors varies with species, cell type, and even what the target gene is. 
During transcription the gene (double-stranded DNA) is copied or transcribed into an virtually identical single-stranded messenger RNA molecule (mRNA). In eukaryotes this process occurs in the nucleus. Transcription: 1) RNA polymerase transcribes DNA to make messenger RNA (mRNA). 2) The mRNA sequence (dark red strand) is complementary to the DNA sequence (blue strand). Translation: 3) On ribosomes, transfer RNA (tRNA) helps convert mRNA into protein
Gene expression. Gene expression is the process by which the genetic code-the nucleotide sequence-of a gene is used to direct protein synthesis and produce the structures of the cell. Genes that code for amino acid sequences are known as 'structural genes'. The process of gene expression involves two main stages: Transcription: the production of messenger RNA (mRNA) by the enzyme RNA polymerase, and the processing of the resulting mRNA molecule.
The first stage of gene expression is known as transcription. This is the process by which RNA Polymerase, along with other transcription factors, reads and transcribes the DN … A sequence into a complementary RNA strand. 3 people found this useful. The two main steps in gene expression are transcription and translation. In eukaryote cells transcription occurs in the nucleus, and translation occurs in the cytoplasm. 1 person found this useful. Edit.
Gene regulation can occur at any point during gene expression, but most commonly occurs at the level of transcription (when the information in a gene’s DNA is transferred to mRNA). Signals from the environment or from other cells activate proteins called transcription factors. 
Transcription is the first step of gene expression, in which a  particular segment of DNA is copied into RNA (mRNA) by the enzyme  RNA polymerase. Both RNA and DNA are nucle … ic acids, which  use base pairs of nucleotides as a complementary language. The two main steps in gene expression are transcription and translation. In eukaryote cells transcription occurs in the nucleus, and translation occurs in the cytoplasm. 1 person found this useful. Edit.