Thoroughbred Horse. The Thoroughbred was originally bred in England due to the Englishmen's emerging passion for fast race-horses. Three that founded the Thoroughbred bloodline were Byerley Turk, Darley Arabian, and Godolphin Arabian, all imported to England between 1670 and 1710.
Thoroughbred description. The Thoroughbred is a horse breed best known for its use in horse racing. Although the word thoroughbred is sometimes used to refer to any breed of purebred horse, it technically refers only to the Thoroughbred breed. Thoroughbreds are considered a hotblooded horse, known for their agility, speed and spirit. USES. Although the Thoroughbred is primarily bred for racing, the breed is also used for show jumping and combined training because of its athleticism, and many retired and retrained race horses become fine family riding horses, dressage horses, and youth show horses.
Thoroughbred horse racing is a worldwide sport and industry involving the racing of Thoroughbred horses. It is governed by different national bodies. There are two forms of the sport: Flat racing and jump racing, called National Hunt racing in the UK and steeplechasing in the US. 
The Thoroughbred is a horse breed best known for its use in horse racing. Although the word thoroughbred is sometimes used to refer to any breed of purebred horse, it technically refers only to the Thoroughbred breed. Thoroughbreds are considered  hot-blooded  horses, known for their agility, speed and spirit. The Thoroughbred as it is known today was developed in 17th-and 18th-century England, when native mares were crossbred with imported Oriental stallions of Arabian, Barb, and Turkoman breeding. Although horses of part-Thoroughbred blood were imported into Australia during the late 18th century, it is thought that the first pureblood Thoroughbred was a stallion named Northumberland who was imported from England in 1802 as a coach horse sire.
Weight: The Thoroughbred weighs 1,000 pounds, which is 25 pounds lighter than the average horse breed. Life: Most horse breeds tend to live between 25 and 30 years. Not surprisingly, the Thoroughbred has a life expectancy in line with other horses. The word “thoroughbred” is often used to refer to any purebred horse, but the term actually refers to the English breed developed in the 18th and 19 centuries. In terms of appearance, the Thoroughbred resembles its Arabian ancestor
Breeds of Livestock-Thoroughbred Horse. The term Thoroughbred describes a breed of horse whose ancestry traces back to three foundation sires -- the Darley Arabian, the Godolphin Arabian and the Byerly Turk. The average height of today's Thoroughbred is a little over 16 hands, as opposed to the 14-hand average height of the horses from which the breed originated. But the key word is average.. Because, for every rule as to what the perfect Thoroughbred should look like, there is a champion whose performances disprove it.
Although the Thoroughbred is primarily bred for racing, the breed is also used for show jumping and combined training because of its athleticism, and many retired and retrained race horses become fine family riding horses, dressage horses, and youth show horses. Although horses of part-Thoroughbred blood were imported into Australia during the late 18th century, it is thought that the first pureblood Thoroughbred was a stallion named Northumberland who was imported from England in 1802 as a coach horse sire.
The Thoroughbred is a breed of horse celebrated for speed and endurance. Thoroughbreds are best known as racehorses, but are also popular in other equestrian sports such as polo, hunting, and eventing. The thoroughbred (Equus caballus) was designated official state horse of Kentucky in 1996 (a thoroughbred horse is also featured on the Kentucky quarter). The Kentucky Derby (first of the yearly Triple Crown thoroughbred races) is called The Greatest Two Minutes in Sports.