Flight levels are described by a number, which is this nominal altitude (or, pressure altitude) in feet, divided by 100, while being a multiple of 500 ft, therefore always ending on 0 or 5. Therefore, an apparent altitude of, for example, 32,000 feet is referred to as flight level 320. Historically, altitude has been measured using a pressure altimeter, which is essentially a calibrated barometer. An altimeter measures air pressure, which decreases with increasing altitude following the barometric formula, and from the surrounding's pressure calculates and displays the corresponding altitude.
Answers. Best Answer: FL means Flight Level. It's used above 18.000ft (in the US, in other countries other altitudes are used as the boundary) to indicate the altitude in hundreds of feet. So FL230 is 23.000ft standard altitude. Best Answer: FL means Flight Level. It's used above 18.000ft (in the US, in other countries other altitudes are used as the boundary) to indicate the altitude in hundreds of feet
The pressure is computed assuming an International standard sea-level pressure datum of 1013.25 hPa, and therefore is not necessarily the same as the aircraft's true altitude either above mean sea level or above ground level. 
All aircraft operating on flight levels calibrate to this setting regardless of the actual sea level pressure. Flight levels are described by a number, which is this nominal altitude (pressure altitude) in feet, divided by 100. Therefore an apparent altitude of, for example, 30,000 feet is referred to as flight level 300. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_leve... Walt · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Flight levels solve this problem by defining altitudes based on a standard air pressure at sea-level. All aircraft operating on flight levels calibrate to this setting regardless of the actual sea level pressure. Historically, altitude has been measured using a pressure altimeter, which is essentially a calibrated barometer. An altimeter measures air pressure, which decreases with increasing altitude following the barometric formula, and from the surrounding's pressure calculates and displays the corresponding altitude.
This altitude is calculated from the International standard pressure datum of 1013.25 hPa (29.92 inHg), the average sea-level pressure, and therefore is not necessarily the same as the aircraft's true altitude either above mean sea level or above ground level. Flight levels are described by a number, which is this nominal altitude (pressure altitude) in feet, divided by 100. Therefore an apparent altitude of, for example, 30,000 feet is referred to as flight level 300. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_leve... Walt · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
The pressure is computed assuming an International standard sea-level pressure datum of 1013.25 hPa (29.92 inHg), and therefore is not necessarily the same as the aircraft's true altitude either above mean sea level or above ground level. Historically, altitude has been measured using a pressure altimeter, which is essentially a calibrated barometer. An altimeter measures air pressure, which decreases with increasing altitude following the barometric formula, and from the surrounding's pressure calculates and displays the corresponding altitude.
Best Answer: In aviation, a Flight Level (FL) is a standard nominal altitude of an aircraft, referenced to a world-wide fixed pressure datum of 1013.25 mbar or the equivalent setting, 29.921 inHg (the average sea-level pressure). It is not necessarily the same as the aircraft's true altitude above mean sea level. Note that an aircraft flying at flight level 320 will usually be at some other actual height above mean sea level than 32,000 feet, but since all other aircraft set their altimeters to a standard pressure, a minimal collision risk arises.
Flight levels solve this problem by defining altitudes based on a standard pressure of 1013.25 hPa (the equivalent setting of 29.921 inHg is used in U.S. and Canada). All aircraft operating on flight levels calibrate to this same standard setting regardless of the actual sea level pressure. Note that an aircraft flying at flight level 320 will usually be at some other actual height above mean sea level than 32,000 feet, but since all other aircraft set their altimeters to a standard pressure, a minimal collision risk arises.