A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Viral and bacterial conjunctivitis are similar, but differ in several key ways. First, bacterial conjunctivitis can be cured with antibiotics, while the viral form cannot. Second, there is a slight variation in symptoms. With viral conjunctivitis, the discharge from the eye is clearer and less thick than with the bacterial infection. Viral conjunctivitis can also cause painful swelling in the lymph node nearest the ear, a symptom not experienced with bacterial conjunctivitis.
Pink eye is an infectious form of conjunctivitis, most often caused by viruses but also caused in some cases by bacteria. The most important form of non-infectious conjunctivitis is allergic, usually recognizable by mild redness, substantial itching and no discharge. 
Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis can often be diagnosed from symptoms and patient history. For example, if conjunctivitis accompanies a common cold or respiratory tract infection and if discharge from the eye is watery rather than thick, the cause is likely a virus. Bacterial conjunctivitis can usually be diagnosed by a doctor, nurse, or other healthcare provider from symptoms and patient history. For example, if conjunctivitis occurs at the same time as an ear infection and if discharge from the eye is thick rather than watery, the cause may be a bacterium.
All forms of conjunctivitis  including bacterial, viral, allergic and other types  involve inflammation of the transparent, mucous membrane (conjunctiva) covering the white part of the eye or sclera. Infectious causes of an inflamed eye and conjunctivitis include bacteria, viruses and fungi. Non-infectious causes include allergies, foreign bodies and chemicals.
Viral vs Bacterial Pink Eye. Both viruses and bacteria can cause pink eye. Conjunctivitis, uveitis, irits, elevated pressure in the eye, as well as sinusitis, can also cause pink eye. The commonest cause of pink eye is conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis can be due to viruses, bacteria, allergies, or chemicals. Viral vs Bacterial Pink Eye. • Viral conjunctivitis does not usually appear alone while bacterial conjunctivitis can be the sole presenting condition. • Viral conjunctivitis accompanies upper respiratory tract infections. • Both bacterial and viral pink eye spread by contact.
The most common types of bacteria that cause bacterial conjunctivitis include Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bacterial conjunctivitis usually produces a thick eye discharge or pus and can affect one or both eyes. Infectious causes of an inflamed eye and conjunctivitis include bacteria, viruses and fungi. Non-infectious causes include allergies, foreign bodies and chemicals.
Bacterial conjunctivitis is a common type of pink eye, caused by bacteria that infect the eye through various sources of contamination. The bacteria can be spread through contact with an infected individual, exposure to contaminated surfaces or through other means such as sinus or ear infections. Infectious causes of an inflamed eye and conjunctivitis include bacteria, viruses and fungi. Non-infectious causes include allergies, foreign bodies and chemicals.
Knowing whether or not a conjunctivitis contracted by a sufferer is viral as opposed to bacterial or allergic may be of little consequence since the symptoms are similar and all are extremely uncomfortable. In fact most conjunctivitis will resolve without any treatment within a week. 
Viral and bacterial conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis and bacterial conjunctivitis may affect one or both eyes. Viral conjunctivitis usually produces a watery discharge. Bacterial conjunctivitis often produces a thicker, yellow-green discharge. Both types can be associated with colds or symptoms of a respiratory infection, such as a sore throat. Both viral and bacterial types are very contagious. They are spread through direct or indirect contact with the eye secretions of someone who's infected