Location, Gascony in France. Located in the beautifully historical quaint village of Gramont in the heart of Gascony, South West France, the Gascony Cookery School is a Cooking Holiday in France with a difference. Gascony is the ancient name of a former duchy in South West France. Steeped in history these lands were ruled by the Romans, conquered by the Visigoths and then by the Francs.
Visit Gers, France. The historical region of Gascony (now the Gers department) is one of rolling countryside, of low-key agriculture and fields of sunflowers, of quiet roads and peaceful moments.
Travel Insurance. Gascogne (English: Gascony) is an area of southwest France that constituded a province of France prior to the French Revolution. Gascogne is currently devided between the Aquaraine r gion and the Midi-Pyr n es r gion. 
Gascony was historically inhabited by Basque-related people who appear to have spoken a language similar to Basque. The name Gascony comes from the same root as the word Basque (see Wasconia below). From medieval times until the nineteenth century, the Gascon language was spoken, which progressively adopted Romance elements until it was transformed enough as to be considered a regional variant of the Occitan language. The region is vaguely defined, and the distinction between Guyenne and Gascony is unclear; by some they are seen to overlap, while others consider Gascony a part of Guyenne. Most definitions put Gascony east and south of Bordeaux
Gascony (găs´kənē) , Fr. Gascogne, region of SW France. It is now coextensive with the departments of Landes, Gers, and Hautes-Pyrenees pyrénées and parts Of-Pyrenees, Pyrénées-atlantiques-Lot, Et-garonne-Tarn, Et-Garonne, Haute, garonne Gironde. and ariege ariège Gascony Former province in sw France, bounded to the s by the Pyrenees and to the w by the Bay of Biscay.
Flag of Gascony (based on the coat of arms). Gascony (/ˈɡaeskəni/ ; ˈɡæskəni: French [gascogne] ; ɡaskɔɲ: Gascon [gasconha]) ɡasˈkuɲɔ is an area of Southwest france that was part of  The province Of guyenne And gascony prior to The French. revolution The region is vaguely defined, and the distinction between Guyenne and Gascony is unclear; by some they are seen to overlap, while others consider Gascony a part of Guyenne. Most definitions put Gascony east and south of Bordeaux.
Gascony. Gascony (găsˈkənē) [ key ], Fr. Gascogne, region of SW France. It is now coextensive with the departments of Landes, Gers, and Hautes-Pyrenees pyrénées and parts Of-Pyrenees, Pyrénées-atlantiques-Lot, Et-garonne-Tarn, Et-Garonne, Haute, garonne Gironde. and ariege ariège 
After 1450 the east of Gascony, now part of Guyenne, was under the control of the Armagnacs. But the Armagnacs political quarrels with other French nobility lead to the mysterious deaths of two Counts and, in 1473, Armagnac was confiscated by Louis XI of France thus becoming a crown province. Vassal to the French crown since the conquest of Clovis in the 5th Century, Gascony only briefly flirted with independence in the 8th Century when Duke Gaifre attempted to form a separate Gascon state.
The locality of Gascony as it is known today is the Eastern Gers (area of the Gers not included in Armagnac), which is separated from the Pyrenees by Comminges and Bigorre, the scenery is more that of rolling hills and glacier formed flat valleys. Yet there are views of the Pyrenees from the southern hills. Vassal to the French crown since the conquest of Clovis in the 5th Century, Gascony only briefly flirted with independence in the 8th Century when Duke Gaifre attempted to form a separate Gascon state.