Report Abuse. About 95% of children are immune to measles, mumps, and rubella after the first MMR vaccine. The 2nd MMR shot is not actually a booster, because it is not meant to boost immunity. It is meant to catch the 5% of children who did not develop antibodies from the first shot. 
Vaccines and Immunizations. ShareCompartir. For the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines at age 12-47 months, either MMR vaccine and varicella vaccine or MMRV vaccine may be used. When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.
A licensed vaccine to prevent measles first became available in 1963, an improved measles vaccine in 1968. Vaccines for the mumps and rubella became available in 1967 and 1969, respectively. The three vaccines (for mumps, measles, and rubella) were combined in 1971 to become the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine.
In this article. The measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine is recommended for all children. It protects against three potentially serious illnesses. It is a two-part vaccination, and in most states, you must prove your children have gotten it before they can enter school. MMR is a two-shot series of vaccines usually given during childhood. A child should receive the first shot when he is between 12-15 months, and the second when he's between 4-6 years of age.
Measles vaccine, given as MMR, may be effective if given within the first 3 days (72 hours) after exposure to measles. Immune globulin may be effective for as long as 6 days after exposure. There is no harm in giving MMR vaccine to a person who may already be immune to one or more of the vaccine viruses. If you or the patient opt for testing, and the tests indicate the patient is not immune to one or more of the vaccine components, give your patient 2 doses of MMR at least 4 weeks apart.
In this article. The MMR vaccine protects against measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles). Many children in the U.S. are immunized as infants and toddlers, but that doesn't guarantee lifetime protection. And not everyone gets vaccinated as a child. Many adults move to the U.S. from countries without immunization programs. 
The MMR vaccine is generally administered to children around the age of one year, with a second dose before starting school (i.e. age 4/5). The second dose is a dose to produce immunity in the small number of persons (2–5%) who fail to develop measles immunity after the first dose. Vaccines for the mumps and rubella became available in 1967 and 1969, respectively. The three vaccines (for mumps, measles, and rubella) were combined in 1971 to become the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine.
MMR vaccine is recommended routinely for all children at age 12 through 15 months, with a second dose at age 4 through 6 years. The second dose of MMR can be given as early as 4 weeks (28 days) after the first dose and be counted as a valid dose if both doses were given after the child's first birthday. There is no harm in giving MMR vaccine to a person who may already be immune to one or more of the vaccine viruses. If you or the patient opt for testing, and the tests indicate the patient is not immune to one or more of the vaccine components, give your patient 2 doses of MMR at least 4 weeks apart.
The MMR vaccine is an immunization vaccine against measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles) . It is a mixture of live attenuated viruses of the three diseases, administered via injection. It was first developed by Maurice Hilleman while at Merck. Vaccines for the mumps and rubella became available in 1967 and 1969, respectively. The three vaccines (for mumps, measles, and rubella) were combined in 1971 to become the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends a two-dose vaccine schedule for measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccines for children, with the first dose at age 12-15 months and the second at age 4-6 years. When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.