1 You can also usually find a type of massage that does not require that you be licensed by the state you are in. 2  In many states people who practice Reiki, Reflexology and various types of somatic or structural integration from having to go to massage school. 3  Be sure you know the requirements. Learn about the art of massage. A great way to learn more about the massage arts is to talk with a massage therapist, and get a massage yourself. Ask plenty of questions about what the profession entails, and start thinking about what type of massage therapist you want to be. 1  Do some research.
Before you can work as a massage therapist, you’ll need to enroll and complete a massage therapy education program. You’ll be required to complete somewhere between 330 and 1,000 hours of training, which adds up to anywhere from a matter of weeks to two years. The time you spend in training will prepare you to take your massage therapist licensure exam.
Massage therapy training typically costs anywhere from $6 to $17 an hour, with the average being $9 or $10. Because of this cost variation, as well as the wide range of state requirements, your program costs depend largely on where you are. In the U.S., most states require massage therapists to be licensed before they can legally practice. The majority of states require both a certain number of hours of education and a passing grade on the entry-level licensing exam known as the MBLEx.
Legal minimum hours for obtaining a massage therapy license vary by state, and these minimums range from 330 to 1,000 hours. Depending on how your program is structured, you can obtain your license in a matter of weeks, or it might take you up to two years. In the U.S., most states require massage therapists to be licensed before they can legally practice. The majority of states require both a certain number of hours of education and a passing grade on the entry-level licensing exam known as the MBLEx.
5. Cancel. The time it takes to become a message therapist varies, but at least 500 hours are required from most massage schools and a National Certification exam is necessary. Become a trained and licensed massage therapist with advice from an experienced massage therapist in this free video on massage. So depending on the amount of hours required in your school and how long that is to start, depends on how long your final path is, how long your path is taking you to become a massage therapist. Now massage therapy school is great.
Please try again later. The time it takes to become a message therapist varies, but at least 500 hours are required from most massage schools and a National Certification exam is necessary. Become a trained and licensed massage therapist with advice from an experienced massage therapist in this free video on massage. Expert: Sundae Thomas. 
Most of these states set guidelines for the amount of hours of massage therapy education which are required to become licensed. The average for these states ranges between 500 and 600 hours. Each state has requirements for how many of those hours are divided between classroom time and hands on training experience. One of those is the type of massage you choose to specialize in. Some schools will require you take more massage school hours in order to learn specific types of massage therapies. The amount of classes you take at a given time can also effect the how long it will take you to complete massage therapy school.
Massage Therapist Licensing. 1  How long will it take for me to become licensed? 2  Can I obtain a temporary license? 3  Can I work as a massage therapist while waiting for my license? 4  Can I find out if my application will be approved before I submit it and pay the non-refundable fee? 5  What can I do to speed up the application process? 6  If licensure is 7  ... Is 
Massage therapist career. The time it takes you to become a massage therapist is determined by you and not just the state and school requirements you must meet. You time can be altered by a variety of other factors. One of those is the type of massage you choose to specialize in. Some schools will require you take more massage school hours in order to learn specific types of massage therapies. The amount of classes you take at a given time can also effect the how long it will take you to complete massage therapy school.