Here's the rundown on each airport: 1. LA GUARDIA Geographically closest, but it's the only one without train service. To get to Manhattan, you have two choices of bus. There's a bus that goes over the Triboro Bridge and across 125th Street. That's a good one for getting to uptown Manattan (Manhattan goes to 228th Street). To get downtown, there's a different bus to the 74th St. & Broadway (Queens) subway (7, E, F, M). The bus is pretty slow, because it's a local.
Buildings in the neighborhood. Manhattan Beach is a residential neighborhood in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. It is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean to the south and east, by Sheepshead Bay on the north, and Brighton Beach to the west. Manhattan Beach is served by the New York City Department of Education. Manhattan Beach is zoned to PS 195 Manhattan Beach School for grades K-5 and PS 225, the Eileen E. Zaglin School for grades 6-8. In 1992, special education school PS 771K was opened at this building.
New York City is made up of five boroughs: the Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens and Staten Island. Each one has enough attractions—and enough personality—to be a city all its own. Learn more about them with this guide. 1  Tweet. back to boroughs &neighborhoods see nyc maps & guides. the five boroughs. BOROUGH The Bronx This is where hip-hop was born, where the Yankees became a dynasty and where you can find New York City's leading zoo and botanical garden. more.
John F Kennedy (JFK) airport is on Long Island about 12 miles east of Manhattan. LaGuardia is in Queens about 6 miles from downtown and Newark airport is across the Hudson river in New Jersey about 12 miles to the southwest of the city. Ready access is available from each airport via taxi or bus. 
LaGuardia is in Queens, which is a borough of NYC, but it's closer to upper Manhattan. JFK is further out in Queens, and is the furthest away. There is a train from JFK that will get you to the subway system and into the city pretty cheaply. That's a good one for getting to uptown Manattan (Manhattan goes to 228th Street). To get downtown, there's a different bus to the 74th St. & Broadway (Queens) subway (7, E, F, M). The bus is pretty slow, because it's a local.
Staten Island is the most suburban of the five boroughs of New York City. Although still predominantly residential in nature, the borough has changed significantly since the opening of the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge in 1964. It is the closest borough to New Jersey's Newark International Airport. 
Best Answer: Manhattan is a borough. I'd say the closest is the Bronx, because it's the only other borough that actually touches Manhattan by land. The Marble Hill neighborhood is part of Manhattan, even though it's on the other side of the Harlem River. Marble Hill touches the Bronx. So, that would make the Bronx closest to Manhattan
This is a list of neighborhoods in the New York City borough of Manhattan arranged geographically from the north of the island to the south. The following approximate definitions are used: 1  Uptown Manhattan refers to the area above 59th Street; Upper Manhattan refers to the area above 96th Street. 
Major cities near Manhattan, NY. This is a list of large cities closest to Manhattan, NY. A big city usually has a population of at least 200,000 and you can often fly into a major airport. If you need to book a flight, search for the nearest airport to Manhattan, NY. 1  5 miles to New York, NY. 2  7 miles to Jersey City, NJ. 3  11 miles to Newark, NJ. 