The adaptive immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system). Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, leads to an enhanced response to subsequent encounters with that pathogen. The acquired response is called adaptive because it prepares the body's immune system for future challenges (though it can actually also be maladaptive when it results in autoimmunity).
This interaction is so crucial that the adaptive response cannot occur without an innate immune system. The cells of the adaptive immune system are lymphocytes – B cells and T cells. B cells, which are derived from the bone marrow, become the cells that produce antibodies. T cells, which mature in the thymus, differentiate into cells that either participate in lymphocyte maturation, or kill virus-infected cells. 
The immune system is a system of many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease. To function properly, an immune system must detect a wide variety of agents, known as pathogens, from viruses to parasitic worms, and distinguish them from the organism's own healthy tissue. Both innate and adaptive immunity depend on the ability of the immune system to distinguish between self and non-self molecules. In immunology, self molecules are those components of an organism's body that can be distinguished from foreign substances by the immune system.
Features of an Immune Response. An immune response is generally divided into innate and adaptive immunity. Innate immunity occurs immediately, when circulating innate cells recognize a problem. Adaptive immunity occurs later, as it relies on the coordination and expansion of specific adaptive immune cells. Also, if a B or T cell does not receive signals from innate cells, it will not be optimally activated. Immune memory is a feature of the adaptive immune response. After B or T cells are activated, they expand rapidly. As the problem resolves, cells stop dividing and are retained in the body as memory cells.
The cells of the innate system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system (which is found only in vertebrates), it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host. 
The adaptive immune response is antigen-specific and requires the recognition of specific non-self antigens during a process called antigen presentation. Antigen specificity allows for the generation of responses that are tailored to specific pathogens or pathogen-infected cells. Both innate and adaptive immunity depend on the ability of the immune system to distinguish between self and non-self molecules. In immunology, self molecules are those components of an organism's body that can be distinguished from foreign substances by the immune system.
The body's third line of defense is the adaptive immune system, also called the acquired immune system because we are not born with it, but acquire it through contact with specific pathogens during our lifetime. Its primary job is to protect us against reinfection. A final aspect of the adaptive immune system remains. Once they have ultimately neutralized the invaders, most of the B-and T-cells die off. However, a few remain in the body as memory cells in the event the body is reinfected by the same antigen.
3. Stimulating cells to secrete a variety of cytokines that influence the function of other cells involved in adaptive immune responses and innate immune responses. Cell-mediated immunity is directed primarily microbes that survive in phagocytes and microbes that infect non-phagocytic cells.
Memory cells. A final aspect of the adaptive immune system remains. Once they have ultimately neutralized the invaders, most of the B-and T-cells die off. However, a few remain in the body as memory cells in the event the body is reinfected by the same antigen.
The adaptive immune system is made of specialized cells and processes which kill pathogens or prevent their attack. The adaptive immune system is switched on by the evolutionarily older innate immune system. This older system is non-specific, whereas the adaptive system is tailored to specific targets. 