Location and Geography. Israel is in the Middle East on the Mediterranean Sea, bordering Egypt, the Gaza Strip, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the West Bank. Its total area is 8,019 square miles (20,770 square kilometers), slightly smaller than New Jersey. The Negev Desert covers the south of the country. 
Confidence votes 74. People dress in Israel just like you and me. They wear what they want and follow fashion. There are some cultures that have a different dress, but the majority dress like regular people dress in America or Europe. I'm from Israel, by the way, and I'm not saying that to defend Israel as I'm Arab. I'm telling you that they're treated as humans and they get paid better than what they get from Thailand, so they love it here Answer 2 There are between 20,000 and 30,000 Thai Workers in Israel, depending on which source you believe.
Traditional Moslem, Arab women are also modestly dressed. They may wear a long dress or a long-sleeved tunic over pants and a scarf to cover their heads. In parts of Jerusalem and some outlying villages, you may find the women dressed in black and some may even wear a burka. Modern Arab women wear modern clothing. Hebrew: לבוש מתאים לישראל. Making Aliyah, moving to Israel or just visiting: you need to decide what kind of clothing you are going to bring with you. You are probably making Aliyah or relocating from a country that has a very different climate to that in Israel.
1 What to wear to the “old cities” in Israel. 2  In this historical country, many cities have old sections, like Jaffa, Akko and Jerusalem. 3  Here you will meet Arab speaking Israelis or Palestinians, and what you wear in Israel’s old cities should fit this other culture. If you wish to learn what to wear in Israel before you ever get there, open your mind up to Europe’s sense of style, the Mediterranean’s rough cotton fabrics and India’s exotic embroidered silks. And, of course, suit what you wear in Israel to where you’re headed. 1  What to wear in Israel’s Cities.
The Israeli Druze are a religious minority in Israel and an ethnic group. Despite the evolution of clothing in Israel, a lot of the Druze still wear the traditional clothing that express them as a nationality in a multi-ethnic society and make it easy to identify them. 
You can expect that in Israel, styles of antiquity, modern attire and traditional religious dress combine. Israel, one of the most powerful and Westernized nations in the Middle East, serves as a tapestry of old and new culture. Israeli Dress, the Old with the New. The traditional clothing from Israel resurrects traditions going back 3,000 years. History and tradition are extremely important to the Jewish people and are defined by their dress, mannerisms and conviction. In Israel, the new world is combined with the old.
The traditional dress in Israel is normal, usually men would have a beard and depending if they are Jewish or not they would have a cap on their head. Woman would usually wear … long dresses or nice shirts and long skirts. and usually everyone would were sandles or low heals. I'm from Israel, by the way, and I'm not saying that to defend Israel as I'm Arab. I'm telling you that they're treated as humans and they get paid better than what they get from Thailand, so they love it here Answer 2 There are between 20,000 and 30,000 Thai Workers in Israel, depending on which source you believe.
Religion. Religious garb is everywhere in Israel, especially in Jerusalem. Ultra-orthodox Jews cling to their traditional black hats and coats, Jewish men wearing skullcaps are a normal sight, and you will see nuns, monks and priests of various denominations wearing their particular vestments. 
1 What to wear in Israel to religious places. 2  Israel’s religious significance is unmatched around the world. 3  And what you wear in Israel when visiting religious spots is not merely a question of fashion. 4  Here you must show respect to the history and heritage of the place. If you wish to learn what to wear in Israel before you ever get there, open your mind up to Europe’s sense of style, the Mediterranean’s rough cotton fabrics and India’s exotic embroidered silks. And, of course, suit what you wear in Israel to where you’re headed. 1  What to wear in Israel’s Cities.
In Israel, be sure to dress nicely. Black is popular in the universities, and tight clothing is how to fit in. If you are blonde, watch it! I stuck out big time in Israel and Egypt with my blonde hair, haven't learned exactly what to do about that one.