In the 2000s banji/banjee and related terms such as banji certified, banji bash, and banji movement have been largely separated from any reference to LBGT people. Instead, banji is a (usually complimentary) referent to certain styles of urban fashion. A person is banji certified if he or she is really (acting like or dressing like a) banji. Two related terms that are probably also of recent coinage are Banji bash (an event where people dressed in banji styles) and Banji movement (a catch all term for all things banji).
Missy Elliott and her new protege Sharaya J explain what it means to be BANJI Certified. ... By// Starrene Rhett Rocque. Missy Elliott has an eye for talent. Enter Sharaya J, a rapper and dancer who is hard to miss, with her ever-changing bright hair colors and lipstick. 
Banji is a genus of oviraptorid dinosaur. It contains one species, Banji long, named from the Chinese for striped crest dragon. The species is represented by a single skull and lower jaw. 
Banji is a genus of oviraptorid dinosaur. It contains one species, Banji long, named from the Chinese for striped crest dragon. The species is represented by a single skull and lower jaw. It was first described by Xu Xing and Feng-Lu Han in 2010. Banji possessed a tall, crested skull like some other oviraptorids. Uniquely, the sides of the crest are adorned with a series of vertical striations, as well as grooved on the top of the
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Banji in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Banji in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Banji Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Banji has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Banji to other names.
Banji is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Banji include Banjea, Banjey, Banjie, Banjy, Baano, Baibin, Bamhi, Banan, Banee, Banhi, Bano, Banow, Banowe, Banwen, Bean, Beanie, Bebhin, Bebhinn, Bebhyn, and Bebhynn.
[ syll. ba-nji, ban-ji ] The baby boy name Banji is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is B AA NYiy †. The origin of Banji is African. The name is of the meaning the second born of twins. Banjea, Banjee, Banjey, Banjie, and Banjy are variants of Banji. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Banji include Banjea, Banjey, Banjie, Banjy, Bachan, Bahman, Banan, Bane, Bannie, Banny, Banyn, Beaman, Bean, Beavin, Beavon, Beavun, Beeman, Beman, Ben-Am, and Benen.
Banji is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ban-ji. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Banji Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Banji has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Banji to other names.
[ syll. ba-nji, ban-ji ] The baby girl name Banji is also used as a boy name. Baby names that sound like Banji include Banjea, Banjey, Banjie, Banjy, Baano, Baibin, Bamhi, Banan, Banee, Banhi, Bano, Banow, Banowe, Banwen, Bean, Beanie, Bebhin, Bebhinn, Bebhyn, and Bebhynn.
The photo she took looks go banji because she has the big door-knocker earings in her ear and she's popping her gum. by Krissy* January 02, 2008. 3. Banji. Banji-plural of banjo-which is a four-, five-or (occasionally) six-stringed instrument with a thin membrane stretched over a frame or cavity as a resonator. The membrane is typically a piece of animal skin or plastic, and the frame is typically circular. 