California Cremation Costs. The average cost of cremation is a fraction of funeral and burial costs in California, less than a quarter of the $10,000+ cost of an average funeral and burial. With cremation, there is no need to embalm or to purchase a cemetery plot, casket, burial vault, or gravestone. 
The exact cost of cat cremation depends on the type of cremation and memorial service you choose. Moreover, factors like the area, time, etc. also affect the price. Nevertheless, on an average, cat cremation can cost about $60 to $150. Furthermore, communal pet cremations are more cost-effective than private or individual cremations. Communal cremation involves the incineration of many pets in the same cremation chamber. It may cost about $30 to $70
Cremation costs also depend on whether other services are included with the cremation, the cost of the casket or container used during cremation, and other factors. According to the Cremation Association of North America, the average cost of a cremation with a simple memorial service is $1650. 
According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services.
The exact cost of human cremation depends on factors like the region, the type of cremation service you choose, the cost of casket or alternative container, price of cremation urn, the way you want to dispose of the ashes, etc. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services.
The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory. Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style.
If you keep it simple, though, the average cost of a cremation, including a basic memorial service, runs about $1,600. If you go for a so-called direct cremation, without a memorial service, the cost can drop well below $1,000. Go online and you can find prices as low as $600 or so. But the main reason, as you might expect, is cost. Cremation is cheaper than burial. The average cost of a funeral today is about $6,500, including the typical $2,000-or-more cost of a casket. Add a burial vault, and the average jumps to around $7,700. A cremation, by contrast, typically costs a third of those amounts, or less
Cremation Packages average prices to expect. The average price of a direct cremation generally varies between $495 and $1,500. This cost varies between areas. In Miami, Las Vegas and Phoenix you can arrange a direct cremation for as little as $495 - $580. However, in most metro areas across the U.S. a direct cremation costs between $795 and $1,200. Cremation Packages average prices to expect Many funeral homes and crematories offer cremation packages. In a cremation package they bundle together some basic services, and the price quoted for a cremation package is an inclusive price. The average price of a direct cremation generally varies between $495 and $1,500.