Terrestrial and telluric are from the Latin words for Earth (Terra and Tellus) because these planets composition is similar to that of the Earth. The four terrestrial planets are (in order of distance from the Sun): Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. Other than Earth, it is believed that the conditions on Mars are the most hospitable for life. It may have had life there in the past, and there may still be life on Mars today. A terrestrial planet, also known as a telluric planet or rocky planet is defined as a planet that is composed primarily silicate rocks or metals. In our solar system, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets-i.e. the ones closest to the Sun
Mercury is the smallest terrestrial planet in the solar system, about a third of the size of Earth. It has a thin atmosphere, which causes it to swing between burning and freezing temperatures. Mercury is also a dense planet, composed mostly of iron and nickel with an iron core. Earth. Of the four terrestrial planets, Earth is the largest, and the only one that has extensive regions of liquid water. Wateris necessary for life as we know it, and life is abundant on Earth — from the deepest oceans to the highest mountains.
In our solar system, there are four terrestrial planets, which also happen to be the four closest to the sun: Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars. During the creation of the solar system, there were likely more terrestrial planetoids, but they likely merged or were destroyed. Earth. Of the four terrestrial planets, Earth is the largest, and the only one that has extensive regions of liquid water. Wateris necessary for life as we know it, and life is abundant on Earth — from the deepest oceans to the highest mountains.
The innermost four planets of our solar system are called the “terrestrial” planets, which comes from the word “telluric”. It is derived from the Latin words “terra” and “tellus”, used to refer to Earth. The terrestrial planets (in order of their distances from the Sun) are Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars. They are made mostly of silicate rocks and metals, with solid surfaces and atmospheres that range from thick (on Venus) to very thin (on Mercury). 1 The terrestrial planets in our solar system orbit relatively close to the Sun, this gives them their other name; the “Inner Planets”. 2  Earth is the most hospitable to life. 3  Mars may have supported life in the past, but there is no evidence that conditions have ever been life-friendly on Mercury or Venus.
Terrestrial Planets. A terrestrial planet, also known as a telluric planet or rocky planet is defined as a planet that is composed primarily silicate rocks or metals. In our solar system, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets-i.e. the ones closest to the Sun
The terrestrial planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars, sizes to scale. A terrestrial planet, telluric planet or rocky planet is a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals. Within the Solar System, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets closest to the Sun, i.e. Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. The terms terrestrial planet and telluric planet are derived from Latin words for Earth (Terra and Tellus), as these planets are, in terms of composition, Earth-like. The Solar System has four terrestrial planets: Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. Only one terrestrial planet, Earth, is known to have an active hydrosphere.
Not all planets are terrestrial. In our solar system, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are gas giants, also known as jovian planets. It's unclear what the dividing line is between a rocky planet and a terrestrial planet; some super-Earths may have a liquid surface, for example. Earth. Of the four terrestrial planets, Earth is the largest, and the only one that has extensive regions of liquid water. Wateris necessary for life as we know it, and life is abundant on Earth — from the deepest oceans to the highest mountains.
From left to right: Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. A terrestrial planet is mostly made of rock (silicate) Earth is the original terrestrial planet. When astronomers started understanding the kinds of planet they extended the term to include our nearest rocky neighbours: Mercury, Venus and Mars. It is often said that they are similar to Earth. 