Some batteries have a low level and full level marking on the battery. However, some batteries do not have a marking indicating the level you should fill the water to. In such a case you should fill the battery where the water level is below the bottom of the battery cap, when the cap is replaced. 
Since a maintenance-free battery is essentially sealed, it is not possible to add water or electrolyte to the cells and thus the potential for eye contact with electrolyte is essentially non-existent. As a result, eyewash stations are not required if only maintenance free batteries are charged. These dual-purpose units can be used to combine an eye wash and a drench hose into a single versatile, economic unit. To use the unit as a fixed eye wash, simply leave the unit in the holder. The dual spray heads will deliver water to both eyes simultaneously. To function as a drench hose, remove the unit from the holder and rinse any part of the eyes, face, or body
A battery room is a room in a facility used to house batteries for backup or uninterruptible power systems. Battery rooms are found in telecommunication central offices, and to provide standby power to computing equipment in datacenters. 
Based upon this interpretation of the OSHA regulations, all facilities should have an eye wash station if a forklift battery charging or changing station presents a risk of exposure to battery acid. To obtain an OSHA approved eye wash station, click here. In the formal OSHA regulations regarding forklift, the stated minimum requirement is an eye wash station in the battery charging area. However, other OSHA regulations may also need to be considered. For example 29 CFR 1910.151(c).
1 Use an eyewash station if the sulfuric acid solution is splashed into the eye. 2  Neutralize spilled or splashed sulfuric acid solution with a baking soda solution, and rinse the spill area with clean water. Lead-acid batteries can produce explosive mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen gases when they are being charged. 1  Charge batteries only in approved, ventilated battery-charging areas. 2  Install a safety shower and an eyewash station in a battery-charging area.
With an eye wash station, the user should be able to open their eyelids with their hands and still have their eyes in the liquid. In the case of the eye/face wash, the user should have enough room to allow the eyelids to be held open with the hands while the eyes and face are still in the stream. Eyewash and Eye/Face Wash Stations. Eyewash stations should be designed to deliver fluid to both eyes simultaneously at a volume of not less than 1.5 litres/minute (0.4 gallons/minute) for 15 minutes. The combination eye and face wash stations require 11.4 litres per minute (3.0 gallons per minute).
We currently have a plumbed eye wash station. The location where are fork lift charging station is greater then the 10 second rule for OSHA requirements. I walked it off and it is 30 seconds to get to our eye wash station. In the formal OSHA regulations regarding forklift, the stated minimum requirement is an eye wash station in the battery charging area. However, other OSHA regulations may also need to be considered. For example 29 CFR 1910.151(c).