WHAT IT IS. An oil furnace is the heating component in some systems in colder weather climates, most commonly in the northeastern United States. It converts oil to heat. Another option is a gas furnace that uses natural gas as its fuel instead of oil. The main components to a furnace include burners and heat exchanger, blower and controls. Trane gas and oil furnaces are built to perform again and again, year after year
WHAT IT IS. A gas furnace is the heating component in a majority of systems in colder weather climates. It converts gas to heat. Another option is an oil furnace that uses oil as its fuel instead of natural gas. The main components to a furnace include burners and heat exchanger, blower and controls. Trane gas and oil furnaces are built to perform again and again, year after year. Beyond performance, we also provide options for energy-efficient operation.
A furnace is a part of the heating system in which the combustion of fossil fuel and transfer of heat occurs. Furnaces can be fueled by natural gas or oil. It converts oil to heat. Another option is a gas furnace that uses natural gas as its fuel instead of oil. The main components to a furnace include burners and heat exchanger, blower and controls.
Furnaces have become more energy-efficient over the years. A gas furnace made in the early 1970s typically has an AFUE of about 65 percent. The lowest efficiency allowed by law for new gas furnaces is 78 percent, and some new models achieve 97 percent--near-total efficiency. The price of a furnace generally rises in step with its fuel efficiency. Efficiency also matters. Gas is currently the most common heating fuel and most new central-heating systems use gas. How efficiently a furnace converts gas into heating energy is reflected in its annual fuel-utilization-efficiency (AFUE) rating, which is measured as a percentage.
Replacing the old furnace in your central heating system with a new, more efficient model can offset volatile energy prices. Money aside, today's furnaces pollute less and boost comfort by producing heat more steadily than older furnaces. Gas is the most common heating fuel and this report focuses on gas furnaces. Efficiency also matters. Gas is currently the most common heating fuel and most new central-heating systems use gas. How efficiently a furnace converts gas into heating energy is reflected in its annual fuel-utilization-efficiency (AFUE) rating, which is measured as a percentage.
oil burner, oil furnace-a furnace that burns oil. open-hearth furnace-a furnace for making steel in which the steel is placed on a shallow hearth and flames of burning gas and hot air play over it. register-a regulator (as a sliding plate) for regulating the flow of air into a furnace or other heating device. 1. An enclosure in which energy in a nonthermal form is converted to heat, especially such an enclosure in which heat is generated by the combustion of a suitable fuel. 2. An intensely hot place: the furnace of the sun; an attic room that is a furnace in the summer.
In British English, a furnace is an industrial furnace used for many things, such as the extraction of metal from ore (smelting) or in oil refineries and other chemical plants, for example as the heat source for fractional distillation columns. An industrial furnace or direct fired heater, is an equipment used to provide heat for a process or can serve as reactor which provides heats of reaction. Furnace designs vary as to its function, heating duty, type of fuel and method of introducing combustion air.
A furnace is a part of the heating system in which the combustion of fossil fuel and transfer of heat occurs. Furnaces can be fueled by natural gas or oil. The main components to a furnace include burners and heat exchanger, blower and controls. Trane gas and oil furnaces are built to perform again and again, year after year. Beyond performance, we also provide options for energy-efficient operation.
A household furnace is a major appliance that is permanently installed to provide heat to an interior space through intermediary fluid movement, which may be air, steam, or hot water. An industrial furnace or direct fired heater, is an equipment used to provide heat for a process or can serve as reactor which provides heats of reaction. Furnace designs vary as to its function, heating duty, type of fuel and method of introducing combustion air.
The furnace transfers heat to the living space of the building through an intermediary distribution system. If the distribution is through hot water (or other fluid) or through steam, then the furnace is more commonly called a boiler. An industrial furnace or direct fired heater, is an equipment used to provide heat for a process or can serve as reactor which provides heats of reaction. Furnace designs vary as to its function, heating duty, type of fuel and method of introducing combustion air.