Wenbo Ma, an assistant professor of plant pathology and microbiology, examines soybean plants in the lab. Credit: UCR Strategic Communications. How exactly bacterial pathogens cause diseases in plants remains a mystery and continues to frustrate scientists working to solve this problem. Understanding plants' overactive immune system will help researchers build better crops. A plant's immune system protects the plant from harmful pathogens. If the system overreacts to pathogens, it can stunt plant growth and reduce seed production. Now, University of Missouri researchers have identified important ...
Information About Plant Diseases. Identifying plant diseases is the first step in treating the problem. There are many types of diseases that affect garden plants, leaving many gardeners scratching their heads. By using the following information, you can learn how to go about identifying plant diseases for effective disease control. 
Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. Across large regions and many crop species, it is estimated that diseases typically reduce plant yields by 10% every year in more developed settings, but yield loss to diseases often exceeds 20% in less developed settings.
A plant disease is usually defined as abnormal growth and/or dysfunction of a plant. Diseases are the result of some disturbance in the normal life process of the plant. Diseases may be the result of living and/or non-living causes. Biotic diseases are caused by living organisms such as fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Even though a plant has symptoms on a specific part, it does not necessarily mean the damaged tissue contains the organism causing the symptoms. For example, a root rot can cause chlorosis and wilting of stems and leaves, BUT the disease causal organism is in the roots.
You don’t add compost and suddenly see a plant get better. Compost does not eliminate diseases organisms or stop infections from occurring. However, compost does change the microbe environment in the soil and this change will affect the number and type of microbes in the soil. This can influence the interaction of microbes and their ability to infect plants. A suppressive soil is a soil where a known existing disease organism does not seem to affect the plants. The disease is present in the soil, but for some reason it is suppressed—it does not infect the plants. Scientists are starting to understand these systems.
Most bacteria that are associated with plants are actually saprotrophic, and do no harm to the plant itself. However, a small number, around 100 known species, are able to cause disease. Bacterial diseases are much more prevalent in sub-tropical and tropical regions of the world. Across large regions and many crop species, it is estimated that diseases typically reduce plant yields by 10% every year in more developed settings, but yield loss to diseases often exceeds 20% in less developed settings.
Plant Diseases. Disease fungi take their energy from the plants on which they live. They are responsible for a great deal of damage and are characterized by wilting, scabs, moldy coatings, rusts, blotches and rotted tissue.
Most plant diseases are caused by fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Although the term disease is usually used only for the destruction of live plants, the action of dry rot and the rotting of harvested crops in storage or transport is similar to the rots of growing plants; both are caused by bacteria and fungi. Plant diseases are more often classified by their symptoms than by the agent of disease, because the discovery of microscopic agents such as bacteria dates only from the 19th cent.
Disease control is achieved by use of plants that have been bred for good resistance to many diseases, and by plant cultivation approaches such as crop rotation, use of pathogen-free seed, appropriate planting date and plant density, control of field moisture, and pesticide use. Across large regions and many crop species, it is estimated that diseases typically reduce plant yields by 10% every year in more developed settings, but yield loss to diseases often exceeds 20% in less developed settings.
Plant viruses are viruses that affect plants. Like all other viruses, plant viruses are obligate intracellular parasites that do not have the molecular machinery to replicate without a host. Plant viruses are pathogenic to higher plants. While this article does not intend to list all plant viruses, it discusses some important viruses as well as their uses in plant molecular biology. The discovery of plant viruses causing disease is often accredited to A. Mayer (1886) working in the Netherlands demonstrated that the sap of mosaic obtained from tobacco leaves developed mosaic symptom when injected in healthy plants.