This is an important gesture because it is the coming together of the human and the spirits of its ancestors. What the aboriginal sand art. Aboriginal sand art is considered a ritual in the traditional aboriginal culture. It is used to signify territorial landmarks and tells the history as well as the origin of the aborigines. Before going in depth about aboriginal sand art, it is important to get to know the people who pioneered in this art form thousands of years ago. The aborigines are the indigenous people of Australia who are still in existence in the country up to this day.
Rangoli, a popular form of Indian sandpainting, in Singapore. Sandpainting is the art of pouring colored sands, and powdered pigments from minerals or crystals, or pigments from other natural or synthetic sources onto a surface to make a fixed, or unfixed sand painting. The colors for the painting are usually accomplished with naturally coloured sand, crushed gypsum (white), yellow ochre, red sandstone, charcoal and a mixture of charcoal and gypsum (blue). Brown can be made by mixing red and black; red and white make pink.
Sandpaintings, also called dry paintings, are called places where the gods come and go in the Navajo language. They are used in curing ceremonies in which the gods' help is requested for harvests and healing. The figures in sand paintings are symbolic representations of a story in Navajo mythology. 
Colors used in the Navajo Sand Paintings are usually symbolic of direction; as a general rule white is east, yellow is west, black (a male color) is north and blue (female) is south; red represents sunshine. In the sandpainting of southwestern Native Americans (the most famous of which are the Navajo), the Medicine Man (or Hataa‚hataå) ii paints loosely upon the ground of a, hogan where the ceremony takes, place or on a buckskin or cloth, tarpaulin by letting the colored sands flow through his fingers with control and. skill
1. Navajo Sand Painting (art + social studies, art + history) During traditional Navajo ceremonies, imagesare painted in colored sand on the floor of thehogan (Navajo home) by a skilled artisan. Oncethe ritual is complete, the painting is sweptaway
More than 30 different sandpaintings may be associated with one ceremony. The Navajo Sand Painting is a symbolic representation of some portion of Navajo mythology and is a big part of the lengthy curing rites and is used by most tribes in the Southwest. In the sandpainting of southwestern Native Americans (the most famous of which are the Navajo), the Medicine Man (or Hataa‚hataå) ii paints loosely upon the ground of a, hogan where the ceremony takes, place or on a buckskin or cloth, tarpaulin by letting the colored sands flow through his fingers with control and. skill
In indigenous societies, the arts are aspects of public life that bring dancing, poetry, and the plastic and graphic arts together as a single function or ritual as the all-embracing expression. Art is indispensable to ritual and ritual is the Native American Indian concept of the whole life process. 
For to the average Navajo there is a curse attached to the making of a sand-painting blanket. Navajo Sandpaintings, also called dry paintings, are called places where the gods come and go in the Navajo language. They are used in curing ceremonies in which the gods' help is requested for harvests and healing. The figures in sand paintings are symbolic representations of a story in Navajo mythology. They depict objects like the sacred mountains where the gods live, or legendary visions, or they illustrate dances or chants performed in rituals.
Sand painting has long been a tradition of the Native American tribes of the southwest. The Navajo tribes, in particular, are known for this beautiful art. Traditionally, the medicine man of the tribe sprinkled colored sand in beautiful patterns and designs in front of the hogan of someone who is ill. 