Normal intraocular pressures average between 12-22 mm Hg. The “mm Hg” refers to millimeters of mercury, which is a scale for recording the eye pressure. Eye pressure can vary hourly, daily and weekly. Many factors can affect the up and down changes in a person's intraocular pressure. Some optic nerves develop glaucoma even at low pressures (this is called normal-tension glaucoma) so it is important to have the optic nerve examined no matter what the pressure may be.
A Dr. Louis Cantor, MD, Ophthalmology, answered on behalf of American Academy of Ophthalmology's EyeSmart. Normal-pressure glaucoma is diagnosed when the eye pressure is within the normal range of approximately 10 to 21 mm Hg but there is still evidence of the typical optic-nerve damage and vision loss seen in glaucoma. 
Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases which result in damage to the optic nerve and vision loss. A major risk factor is increased pressure in the eye. The disorders can be roughly divided into two main categories:  open-angle  and  closed-angle  (or  angle closure ) glaucoma. 
Glaucoma is often associated with having increased pressure inside the eye. However, in low tension glaucoma, also called normal-tension glaucoma, optic nerve damage happens even though the pressure is within normal ranges. Although its cause is not completely understood, normal-tension glaucoma is generally believed to occur either because of an unusually fragile optic nerve that can be damaged despite a normal pressure inside the eye, or because of reduced blood flow to the optic nerve. 1  Unusually fragile optic nerves may be inherited.
Usually, the higher the pressure, the more risk to the optic nerve. Some optic nerves develop glaucoma even at low pressures (this is called normal-tension glaucoma) so it is important to have the optic nerve examined no matter what the pressure may be. Read more about eye pressure and glaucoma
Most people with glaucoma have high pressure inside the eye that damages the optic nerve. Normal-tension glaucoma (also called low-tension glaucoma) is a unique condition in which optic nerve damage and vision loss have occurred despite a normal pressure inside the eye. Eye pressure, called intraocular pressure (IOP), is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10-21 mm Hg. Most people with glaucoma have IOP of greater than 21 mm Hg; however, in normal-tension glaucoma, people have IOP within the normal range. Although its cause is not completely understood, normal-tension glaucoma is generally believed to occur either because of an unusually fragile optic nerve that can be damaged despite a normal pressure inside the eye or because of reduced blood flow to
Eye pressure, called intraocular pressure (IOP), is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10-21 mm Hg. Most people with glaucoma have IOP of greater than 21 mm Hg; however, in normal-tension glaucoma, people have IOP within the normal range. By definition, people with normal-tension glaucoma have open, normal-appearing angles
Glaucoma is usually high pressure inside the eye that damages the optic nerve and can result in permanent vision loss. Normal-tension glaucoma (also called low-tension glaucoma) is a unique condition in which optic nerve damage and vision loss have occurred despite a normal pressure inside the eye. 
Glaucoma is a multi-factorial, complex eye disease with specific characteristics such as optic nerve damage and visual field loss. While increased pressure inside the eye (called intraocular pressure or IOP) is usually present, even patients with normal range IOP can develop glaucoma. Normal eye pressure ranges from 12-22 mm Hg, and eye pressure of greater than 22 mm Hg is considered higher than normal. When the IOP is higher than normal but the person does not show signs of glaucoma, this is referred to as ocular hypertension.
Normal-tension glaucoma causes. Although its cause is not completely understood, normal-tension glaucoma is generally believed to occur either because of an unusually fragile optic nerve that can be damaged despite a normal pressure inside the eye, or because of reduced blood flow to the optic nerve. 1  Unusually fragile optic nerves may be inherited.