Making the world better, one answer at a time. Water, carbon dioxide, and nitrogen are what make up the biogeochemical cycles. Since all of these elements occur naturally in the environment these biogeochemical cycles are considered to be sustainable.
This valuable study of environmental subsystems functioning under various climatic and anthropogenic conditions provides a unique insight into the social context of global changes in biogeochemical cycles and demonstrates current understanding of globalization and sustainable development. 1 Constructs interactive models of natural and anthropogenic processes, considering the correlation between their components. 2  Analyzes regional models to simulate environmental dynamics in the context
The water undergoes evaporation, condensation, and precipitation, falling back to Earth. Elements, chemical compounds, and other forms of matter are passed from one organism to another and from one part of the biosphere to another through biogeochemical cycles. The most well-known and important biogeochemical cycles, for example, include. 1  the carbon cycle, 2  the nitrogen cycle, 3  the oxygen cycle, 4  the phosphorus cycle, 5  the sulphur cycle, 6  the water cycle, 7  and the rock cycle.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Biogeochemical cycle are water,Carbon-dioxide and nitrogen cycles which is sustainable because it is all a work of nature. This means its a natural act to the environments. In effect, the element is recycled, although in some such cycles there may be places (called sinks) where the element is accumulated or held for a long period of time. Biogeochemical cycle, any of the natural circulation pathways of  the essential elements of living matter.
Its biogeochemical cycle in mountainous ecosystems determines the bioavailability and sustainable supply of P, and thus becomes a crucial process which needs to be fully understood and described for ecological and environmental conservation. 
In Earth science, a biogeochemical cycle or substance turnover or cycling of substances is a pathway by which a chemical substance moves through both biotic (biosphere) and abiotic (lithosphere, atmosphere, and hydrosphere) compartments of Earth. The most well-known and important biogeochemical cycles, for example, include. 1  the carbon cycle, 2  the nitrogen cycle, 3  the oxygen cycle, 4  the phosphorus cycle, 5  the sulphur cycle, 6  the water cycle, 7  and the rock cycle.
The cycles are the key to the movement of nutrients through an ecosystem. Living things need these nutrients (like nitrogen and phosphorus) to survive and grow, and when they … die, the materials are recycled through the system. Phosphorus is used in nucleic acids and is a nutrient to living organisms. In effect, the element is recycled, although in some such cycles there may be places (called sinks) where the element is accumulated or held for a long period of time. Biogeochemical cycle, any of the natural circulation pathways of  the essential elements of living matter.
Biogeochemical cycle are water,Carbon-dioxide and nitrogen cycles which is sustainable because it is all a work of nature. This means its a natural act to the environments. H … ope this helps (: + 8 others found this useful. Since all of these elements occur naturally in the environment these biogeochemical cycles are considered to be sustainable.
Water, carbon dioxide, and nitrogen are what make up the  biogeochemical cycles. Since all of these elements occur naturally  in the environment these biogeochemical cycles … are considered to be  sustainable. In effect, the element is recycled, although in some such cycles there may be places (called sinks) where the element is accumulated or held for a long period of time. Biogeochemical cycle, any of the natural circulation pathways of  the essential elements of living matter.
The term biogeochemical tells us that biological, geological and chemical factors are all involved. The circulation of chemical nutrients like carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, and water etc. through the biological and physical world are known as biogeochemical cycles. The most well-known and important biogeochemical cycles, for example, include. 1  the carbon cycle, 2  the nitrogen cycle, 3  the oxygen cycle, 4  the phosphorus cycle, 5  the sulphur cycle, 6  the water cycle, 7  and the rock cycle.