The constellation Ursa Major contains the group of stars commonly called the Big Dipper. The handle of the Dipper is the Great Bear's tail and the Dipper's cup is the Bear's flank. The Big Dipper is not a constellation itself, but an asterism, which is a distinctive group of stars. Another famous asterism is the Little Dipper in the constellation Ursa Minor.
To find Polaris, follow the line from the Pointer Stars, Merak and Dubhe, to the first bright star along the same line. That is the North Star. Merak and Dubhe are the stars that mark the end of the bowl of the Big Dipper. They are called the Pointer Stars because they point the way to Polaris and true north. Two of the stars marking the cup of the Big Dipper lead the way to Polaris, the North Star, and another pair of stars, Megrez and Phecda, point the way to Regulus, the brightest star in Leo and also one of the brightest stars in the night sky, and also to Alphard, the brightest star in Hydra constellation.
Finding Polaris means you know the direction north. Best of all, Polaris is readily found by using the prominent group of stars known as the Big Dipper, called the Plough in the UK, which may be the Northern Hemisphere’s most famous star pattern. To locate Polaris, all you have to do is to find the Big Dipper pointer stars Dubhe and Merak. For example, a famous star called Thuban, in the constellation Draco the Dragon, was the North Star when the Egyptians built the pyramids. But our present Polaris is a good North Star because it’s the sky’s 50th brightest star. So it’s noticeable in the sky.
And, yet, we do not think it is the biggest! Recent observations of a star called VY Canus Majoris show that it has a size between 600 and 2100 tims the size of our Sun! However, this star is only about 500,000 times brighter than our Sun and 30 or so times more massive than our Sun. The star is 25,000 light-years away from Earth. Despite this great distance, the star would be visible to the naked eye if it were not for all the dust between it and the Earth. UPDATE! As of January 2009, we now know about some other really big stars. One is called Eta Carinae. It has a size about 800 times that of our Sun, a mass about 100 times that of our Sun, and is about 4,000,000 times brighter
A large group of stars is called a galaxy. Many people believe that it is a constellation but that is a group of stars that for a perticular picture. +++ I'd say cluster: a galaxy consists of a huge mass of many millions, or thousands of millions, of individual and clustered stars, and clouds of gas and dust. 
Polaris hasn’t always been the North Star and won’t remain the North Star forever. For example, a famous star called Thuban, in the constellation Draco the Dragon, was the North Star when the Egyptians built the pyramids. But our present Polaris is a good North Star because it’s the sky’s 50th brightest star. So it’s noticeable in the sky.
Follow the links below to learn more about these monster stars. R136a1 is the heaviest star, with 265 times the sun’s mass. UY Scuti is just plain big, with a radius 1,700 times that of our sun. Left to right: a red dwarf, the Sun, a blue dwarf, and R136a1. R136a1 is not the largest known star in terms of radius or volume, only in mass and luminosity. This star is thought to have only 25 times the sun’s mass. List of largest known stars. So you can see that there are extremely heavy stars … and then there are simply gigantic stars. What makes a star big might be its mass (like R136a1) or its physical size (like UY Scuti and the two other stars mentioned here).
The brightest star in the Big Dipper asterism is Alioth, Epsilon Ursae Majoris, which is also the brightest star in the constellation Ursa Major and the 31st brightest star in the sky. Five of the seven stars belong to the Ursa Major Moving Group, also known as Collinder 285. Two of the stars marking the cup of the Big Dipper lead the way to Polaris, the North Star, and another pair of stars, Megrez and Phecda, point the way to Regulus, the brightest star in Leo and also one of the brightest stars in the night sky, and also to Alphard, the brightest star in Hydra constellation.
The Big Star discography drew renewed attention in the 1980s when R.E.M. , and The Replacements as well as other popular bands cited the group as an influence. In 1992, interest was further stimulated by Rykodisc 's reissues of the band's albums, complemented by a collection of Bell's solo work. In 1993, Chilton and Stephens reformed Big Star with recruits Jon Auer and Ken Stringfellow of The Posies, and gave a concert at the University of Missouri.