Note. These rules don't affect the existing exemptions that apply to overtime meal payments and sustenance allowances. The rules also don't apply in the case where fringe benefit tax (FBT) is payable on meals directly provided by the employer such as a discount in the work canteen. The rules that limit employers' deductions of entertainment expenses also continue to apply.
Overtime meals or meal allowances are now considered taxable in the following situations: 1  Where the value of the meal or allowance is in excess of $17.00. 2  In situations where the provision of the meal or allowance is frequent and regular, regardless of the dollar value. This bulletin is to bring to your attention the need to report taxable benefits for overtime meals or allowances. The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) has provided direction to Employers concerning the taxability of meals or meal allowances in situations that are not directly related to authorized government travel.
You may be able to claim a payroll tax exemption up to a certain amount on motor vehicle allowances or accommodation allowances you provide to your employees. Should you reimburse your employee for these expenses instead of giving them an allowance, the amount may be taxable if they are subject to fringe benefits tax. 
1 An exemption applies of up to three months for meal payments if the employee is required to work away from their normal work location because they're travelling on business. 2  This may be for a specific short-term, work-related journey or for a longer period such as a secondment to a distant work location. The rules also don't apply in the case where fringe benefit tax (FBT) is payable on meals directly provided by the employer such as a discount in the work canteen. The rules that limit employers' deductions of entertainment expenses also continue to apply.
Whether or not the benefit is taxable depends on its type and the reason an employee receives it. The benefit may be paid in cash (such as a meal allowance or reimbursement of personal cellular phone charges), or provided in a manner other than cash (we call this a non-cash benefit), such as a parking space or a gift. Once you determine that the benefit is taxable, you need to calculate the value of the benefit. Whether or not they are taxable depends on the type of benefit or allowance and the reason an employee receives it. Your employee is considered to have received a benefit if you pay or provide something to him or her that is personal in nature. A benefit can include: 1  a reimbursement of personal expenses;
If an amount for overtime meals has been paid to you as an unspecified part of your normal salary or wages, it is not considered to be an overtime meal allowance. In that case, it would not normally be itemised on your payment summary and does not need to be separately declared in your tax return. If you have received an overtime meals allowance which is not shown on your payment summary, it does not have to be declared as income in your tax return providing.. 1  you have spent all the allowance on deductible expenses and.
Overtime meals or allowances. If you provide overtime meals, or an allowance for overtime meals, there is no taxable benefit if all of the following conditions apply: 1  The allowance, or the cost of the meal, is reasonable. 2  We generally consider a value of up to $17 (including the GST/HST and PST) to be reasonable
Overtime meals or meal allowances are considered taxable in the following situations: 1  Where the value of the meal or allowance is in excess of $17.00. 2  Where the provision of the meal or allowance is frequent and regular, regardless of the dollar value. This bulletin is to bring to your attention the need to report taxable benefits for overtime meals or allowances. The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) has provided direction to Employers concerning the taxability of meals or meal allowances in situations that are not directly related to authorized government travel.
• If the value of a meal or meal allowance is reasonable (up to $17).• If the employee works two or more hours of over-time right before or right after his or her scheduled hours of work.• If the over-time is infrequent and occasional in nature (less than three times a week). 