Therefore, Namaste literally means salutations to you. 'Namaskar' is derived from Sanskrit and is a combination of the two words, Nama? and kaar. As noted above, Nama? is a salutation. Kaar means 'form' or 'shape' and refers to the phenomenon that the other entity (person) presents. 
Definition of Namaste. The definition of Namaste (pronounced na, ma, stay) is both a physical gesture and a spoken spiritual salutation, which is the recognition of the divine spirit (or soul) in another by the divine spirit in you. The word Namaste translates simply to “I bow to the divine in you.”. Namaste Gesture. The acknowledgement of spirit to spirit is represented by placing the hands together in front of your third eye (Third Eye Chakra) and bowing your head then bringing your hands down in front of your heart (Heart Chakra).
It is used both for salutation and valediction. Namaste is usually spoken with a slight bow and hands pressed together, palms touching and fingers pointing upwards, thumbs close to the chest. This gesture is called Anjali Añjali mudrā Or. pranamasana Namaste or namaskar is used as a respectful form of greeting, acknowledging and welcoming a relative, guest or stranger. It is used with good byes as well. In some contexts, namaste is used by one person to express gratitude for assistance offered or given, and to thank the other person for his or her generous kindness.
By Phylameana lila Desy. The word Namaste is a combination of the two Sanskrit words: nama, and te. Basically, nama means to bow and te means you.. The Namaste salutation was transmitted from ancient India to the countries of South-east Asia, and has now traveled virtually all over the globe. In Japan the Namaste hand gesture is called Gassho and is used in prayer and healing sessions
How to make the Namaste gesture. To perform Namaste, we place the hands together at the heart charka, close the eyes, and bow the head. It can also be done by placing the hands together in front of the third eye, bowing the head, and then bringing the hands down to the heart. This is an especially deep form of respect. Although in the West the word “namaste” is usually spoken in conjunction with the gesture, in India, it is understood that the gesture itself signifies Namaste, and therefore, it is unnecessary to say the word while bowing. We bring the hands together at the heart chakra to increase the flow of Divine love
Saurya namaskar, salutations to Surya. Namaste (Namas + te, Devanagari: नमस् + ते = नमस्ते) is derived from Sanskrit and is a combination of the word namaḥ and the enclitic 2nd person singular pronoun te. The word namaḥ takes the Sandhi form namas before the sound t. Namaste or namaskar is used as a respectful form of greeting, acknowledging and welcoming a relative, guest or stranger. It is used with good byes as well. In some contexts, namaste is used by one person to express gratitude for assistance offered or given, and to thank the other person for his or her generous kindness.
The Meaning of Namaste: In Sanskrit the word is namah + te = namaste which means “I bow to you” - my greetings, salutations or prostration to you. The word ‘namaha’ can also be literally interpreted as na ma (not mine). It has a spiritual significance of negating or reducing one's ego in the presence of another. How to Namaste: Place the two palms together and keep the folded palms in front of the chest. Utter the word namaste and while saying the word bow the head slightly. Why Namaste: Namaste could be just a casual or formal greeting, a cultural convention or an act of worship. However, there is much more to it than meets the eye.
Namaste Yoga is an instructional yoga television series produced by Namaste TV, a division of Omnifilm Entertainment. Seasons 1 and 2 were produced in 2004 and choreographed and narrated by yoga instructor and therapist Kate Potter. 
It is used both for salutation and valediction. Namaste is usually spoken with a slight bow and hands pressed together, palms touching and fingers pointing upwards, thumbs close to the chest. This gesture is called Anjali Añjali mudrā Or. Pranamasana In hinduism it Means i bow to the divine in. you Namaste or namaskar is used as a respectful form of greeting, acknowledging and welcoming a relative, guest or stranger. It is used with good byes as well. In some contexts, namaste is used by one person to express gratitude for assistance offered or given, and to thank the other person for his or her generous kindness.