— Quality is doing the right things right and is uniquely defined by each individual. — A product or process that is Reliable, and that performs its intended function is said to be a quality product. — The degree to which something meets or exceeds the expectations of its consumers. — My definition of Quality is way off from the traditional concept of Quality. My definition of Quality is: Reducing the variation around the target. That means, it is very basic that process limits are within the spec limits and process average is very close to
adjunct-a construction that can be used to extend the meaning of a word or phrase but is not one of the main constituents of a sentence. grammatical constituent, constituent - (grammar) a word or phrase or clause forming part of a larger grammatical construction. 1. a. The act or process of constructing. b. The art, trade, or work of building: an engineer trained in highway construction; worked in construction for seven years.
1 In other words, there is no such that for all, 2  We form the set of real numbers as the set of all Dedekind cuts of, and define a total ordering on the real numbers as follows: 3  We embed the rational numbers into the reals by identifying the rational number with the set of all smaller rational numbers. 
Quality itself has been defined as fundamentally relational: 'Quality is the ongoing process of building and sustaining relationships by assessing, anticipating, and fulfilling stated and implied needs.'. Even those quality definitions which are not expressly relational have an implicit relational character. — My definition of Quality is way off from the traditional concept of Quality. My definition of Quality is: Reducing the variation around the target. That means, it is very basic that process limits are within the spec limits and process average is very close to
The term well-defined is also used to indicate whether a logical statement is unambiguous. A function that is not well-defined is not the same as a function that is undefined. For example, if f (x) = 1/ x, then f (0) is undefined, but this has nothing to do with the question of whether f (x) = 1/ x is well-defined. It is; 0 is simply not in the domain of the function. Whereas the definition in step 1. is formulated with the freedom of any definition and is certainly effective (without the need to classify it as „well-defined“), the assertion in step 2. has to be proved: If and only if, we get a function, and the of definition is well-defined.
In mathematics, an expression is called well-defined or unambiguous if its definition assigns it a unique interpretation or value. Otherwise, the expression is said to be not well-defined or ambiguous. Whereas the definition in step 1. is formulated with the freedom of any definition and is certainly effective (without the need to classify it as „well-defined“), the assertion in step 2. has to be proved: If and only if, we get a function, and the of definition is well-defined.
Definition. An aggregate that incorporates sizes from the maximum to the minimum specified so as to fill most of the voids. This type of aggregate is used for asphaltic concrete mixes and for base courses. Print | Cite This Source | Link to This Page.
Well Construction. A set of operations to be directed by the lease operator employing the drilling contractor and third-party services equipment and personnel. Source: API Bulletin 97, Well Construction Interface Document Guidelines, First Edition, December 2013.
Definition. A well dug outside of a below-grade window, commonly a basement window, to allow it to operate.