Arizona Cypress. As the name implies, Arizona cypress trees grow in the Southwestern United States and do well in very dry and hot environments. They are evergreens and top out at about 50 feet tall. Because they are well-adapted for desert-like environments, they are only hardy in zones 7 to 9. Leyland cypress are fast-growing and can add about 3 to 4 feet in height annually in their early years. Maximum height is usually 40 to 50 feet. Leyland cypress is an evergreen with soft needles on flat branches. These trees can grow in many soil conditions, but do not always grow well in climates with cold winters.
Cypress swamps are found in the southern United States. They are named for the bald cypress tree. Bald cypress trees are deciduous trees with needle-like leaves. They have very wide bases and  knees  that grow from their roots and stick up out of the water. Bald cypress trees can grow to 100 to 120 feet tall.
Species include the Leyland cypress, bald cypress, Italian cypress and Arizona cypress. Cypress trees can be grown in many parts of the United States and throughout the world. Each species is unique in its appearance and growing conditions. Leyland cypress are fast-growing and can add about 3 to 4 feet in height annually in their early years. Maximum height is usually 40 to 50 feet. Leyland cypress is an evergreen with soft needles on flat branches. These trees can grow in many soil conditions, but do not always grow well in climates with cold winters.
They like to grow by ponds, Rivers or streams. ----. While the traditional idea of a cypress tree grows in marshlands and swamps in the southeast US and tropical and sup-tropical climates many cypress trees, such as Italian Cypress, European Cypress, and Leyland Cypress are drought-free and they grow almost everywhere. 
1 It is related to the redwoods and sequoias that grow in California. 2  Even though they are conifers, bald cypress trees are not evergreen. 3  They lose their leaves every autumn and grow new ones in spring. 4  Trap Pond State Park in Delaware has the northernmost stand of bald cypress in the United States. Appearance: The bald cypress is cone-or pyramid-shaped; older trees may have a flattened top. It can grow more than 100 feet tall with a trunk diameter of 3 to 6 feet. It has feathery, flattened, needle-like leaves and smooth, stringy, gray-ish brown bark.
Cypress trees are the most common and most flood-tolerant of all wetland trees in Florida. Cypress trees grow along the edge of rivers, lakes and wetlands, often forming large swamps where the trees grow close together. The cypress tree is deciduous. This means that the cypress tree drops its needle-like leaves during the winter or dry season, appearing bare or even dead.
The bald cypress (taxodium distichum) is a native tree of the United States, naturally occurring in swampy areas in the southeastern United States. Growth Rate Comparison. A bald cypress tree will feature an average height of 50 to100 feet and a spread of 25 to 30 feet when mature. It will grow an average of 1 to 2 feet per year in most locations.
The tree grows to a height of 50 to 70 feet, and although the spread is only 12 to 15 feet, it may overwhelm small, residential properties. Therefore, larger areas are most suitable for growing a Leyland cypress tree. The tree is also useful in coastal landscapes where it tolerates salt spray. 