Anterior hip pain is a common problem that is frequently difficult to diagnose and treat. 1 Determining the exact cause of hip pain can be difficult for several reasons. A strain is an acute injury to a muscle or tendon. In contrast, “tendonitis” is the term for acute inflammatory tendon changes secondary to overuse. In the anterior hip, the muscles most likely to be acutely or chronically injured are the rectus abdominis, iliopsoas, adductor longus and rectus femoris.
Muscle Strain and Hernia. A strain or tear to your adductor muscles or tendons, which are located in your inner thigh and groin, can cause groin pain. Additional symptoms include hip stiffness, muscle weakness and swelling. Standing and walking may increase your pain. Hip osteoarthritis is the wearing or degeneration of the cartilage in your hip. Along with hip and groin pain, you may experience joint stiffness, cracking or popping, and muscle loss or atrophy. Weight-bearing activities like walking may increase your symptoms and further degenerate your joint.
A hip flexor strain is a tear of one of the two muscles at the front of the hip that lift the leg upwards. Sudden onset pain at the front of the hip or in the groin may be felt. Swelling and bruising may occur in more serious cases. Tick the filters on the symptom checker below to identify buttock, hip and groin injuries. Acute hip and groin injuries as a result of a sudden impact, twisting or muscle tear. Gradual onset or chronic hip or groin pain may come on over time for no apparent reason, or following an acute injury which has not healed.
However, even though hip joint problem “fakes” pain in the groin area, it is not the most common cause of groin pain. The most common cause of groin pain is due to problems of muscles and other soft tissues that are attached to the groin area. Even though hip pain, buttock pain and groin pain can be related and are grouped together in this article, they are usually from different causes. Pain in the buttock / gluteal area is usually due to problems of the pelvis, sacrum, low back and or muscles of the buttock area (gluteal and other muscles).
Groin weakness: A decrease in the usual strength of the movements of the groin. See detailed information below for a list of 14 causes of Groin weakness, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Groin weakness: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 1 Groin weakness and Back paralysis (10 causes). 2  Groin weakness and Finger weakness (10 causes). 3  Groin weakness and Foot weakness (10 causes). 4  Groin weakness and Forearm weakness (10 causes). 5  Groin weakness and Toe weakness (10 causes). 6  Groin weakness and Upper 
Pain in your hip and groin can indicate either a soft-tissue injury in your hip or groin or a compressed nerve. Possible soft-tissue injuries include a muscle strain, hip arthritis and hernia. Standing, walking and other activities may aggravate your symptoms. Hip osteoarthritis is the wearing or degeneration of the cartilage in your hip. Along with hip and groin pain, you may experience joint stiffness, cracking or popping, and muscle loss or atrophy. Weight-bearing activities like walking may increase your symptoms and further degenerate your joint.
These are the two joints of the pelvis. In a Prolotherapist’s opinion, the most common cause of pubalgia, or groin pain, is pubic symphysis diathesis or injury to the pubic symphysis itself. Traditional orthopedics teaches that the most common cause of groin pain is a strain injury to the muscles of the groin region. Muscle strains heal very quickly and only in rare cases do not heal at all. They do cause some of the chronic groin pain problems in athletes, but not all. Causes of Hip and Groin Pain. Let’s look at some of the most common causes of hip pain and groin pain in athletes and how Prolotherapy can successfully treat each: Athletic Pubalgia. Oftentimes athletes receive the diagnosis of pubalgia or simply “groin pain” involving