Different bird’s eggs require different humidity levels in the incubator. Sometimes the humidity levels get too high and need to be decreased and sometimes the humdity levels get too low and need to be raised. Marcia and her son have turkey eggs in the incubator but need help to raise the humidity. can you tell me how to raise humidity in incubator for turkey eggs. we have a homemade incubator that measures approx. 36″ tall, 36″ deep and about 24″ side. It has 3 tray levels. My son is trying to hatch turkey eggs and is having trouble getting humidity about 68
To increase the humidity levels in an incubator you can: * add a jar or tray of water. * add a wet towel. I believe that low humidity is caused by high temperatures which dry out the water trays in the incubator and help the humidity in the atmosphere evaporate. You could also try to increase the humidity levels in the room in which the incubator is. You may also need to regulate the temperature in the room in which the incubator is in so that the temperature in the incubator doesn’t get too high. Related posts: 1  Raising Humidity Levels In An Incubator. 2  Humidity Levels For Egg Incubation.
8. Adjust the humidity levels in the incubator. Humidity should be around 45 to 50 percent throughout incubation, except during the last three days when you will want to raise it to 65 percent. You may need higher or lower humidity levels depending on the type of eggs you wish to hatch. Mark each side of the eggs with a pencil. Lightly draw the symbol of your choice on one side and then a different symbol on the other side. Marking the eggs in this manner will help you remember the egg turning sequence. 1  Many people use X and O to indicate each side of the egg.
During the last 2-3 days of incubation the eggs no longer need to be turned but they will require extra humidity. Each type of incubator will have suggestions as to how to increase the humidity at this time. Usually this involves closing air vents and adding more water to the incubator. Controlling Humidity. If you need to increase or decrease the humidity in your incubator beyond what can be accomplished by adjusting the vents then you will need to increase or decrease the surface area of water in the incubator.
Answers. Best Answer: Humidity is a function of temperature because the hotter it is the more moisture the air can hold. So, without adding water air that is cool and then warmed will lose relative humidity. In my greenhouse as daytime temps go from 50 to 120 relative humidity goes from about 35% to 5%. 
Your humidity will increase if you increase the area that is holding the water. You can try for a foil pan that is inexpensive from a grocery store or bend one into shape using heavy duty foil. We tried this for our home-made incubator and it worked very well. I have the cardboard box incubator and have hatch eggs before with this project, however this one isn't going so well. My humidity is very very low and no matter what I do It will not come up. I have sponges around the top have extra water in the box that isn't working help me please:(.
Hi, I am planning to put some hatching eggs in my incubator next week and I having problem raising the humidity from 39% in my home made incubator cooler. My incubator is made up of chest cooler that is divided in two section. I have been trying to use different ways to increase the humidity level to 50% degree but have not been successful. If I close all the air passage on my incubator then I get lots of condensations over the glass which results in not seeing the eggs. I'd appreciate your help in the matter. Reply.
Humidity and Ventilation. The relative humidity of the air within an incubator for the first 18 days should be able 60 percent. During the last 3 days (the hatching period) the relative humidity should be nearer 65-70 percent