Pacific Ocean. The most active area of the world in terms of hurricanes is the Northwest of the Pacific Ocean, where the hurricane season runs for the entire year, although there is more activity between July and November. It can presumed, therefore, that the countries in this area can be considered the most susceptible to hurricanes. Atlantic Ocean. Many of the major hurricanes in the world each year occur in the Atlantic Ocean, with incidents being much more frequent, but not restricted to, the Western area of the ocean where the water is warmer.
Hurricanes (by whatever name) are by far most common in the Pacific Ocean, with the western Pacific being most active. In some years, the Philippines are struck by more than 20 tropical storms and typhoons. The term applied to various storms depends on their location. Below is a brief description of each basin's hurricane season.. More information can be obtained from the NOAA Hurricane FAQ. ATLANTIC: Hurricane season in the Atlantic runs from June 1 to November 30. Storms outside of these dates are not unheard of.
Hurricanes also occur at least several degrees away from the equator. This is because the Coriolis force is too weak at the equator to generate spin for the hurricane to develop. North Atlantic Ocean Hurricane season: June 1 - November 30. Some hurricane formation basins are much more active than others. Some tropical cyclone basins also have conditions in which tropical cyclones may occur over longer periods during the year. Most tropical cyclones form from a disturbance in the monsoon trough.
During this peak hurricanes can form in the Atlantic ocean, Gulf of Mexico or Caribbean Sea. Locations that may be affected are the Caribbean, Bermuda, Central America including eastern Mexico, the eastern and Gulf coasts of the United States, and eastern Canada. Some hurricane formation basins are much more active than others. Some tropical cyclone basins also have conditions in which tropical cyclones may occur over longer periods during the year. Most tropical cyclones form from a disturbance in the monsoon trough.
Many of the hurricanes and tropical storms in this area move around the western periphery of the Bermuda high taking them east of the U.S. east coast. Most U.S. landfalling hurricanes occur when the Bermuda high is stronger allowing for the hurricanes to take a farther west track. Some hurricane formation basins are much more active than others. Some tropical cyclone basins also have conditions in which tropical cyclones may occur over longer periods during the year. Most tropical cyclones form from a disturbance in the monsoon trough.
Hurricanes are the most awesome, violent storms on Earth. They form near the equator over warm ocean waters. Actually, the term hurricane is used only for the large storms that form over the Atlantic Ocean or eastern Pacific Ocean. 
EASTERN PACIFIC: The Eastern Pacific basin's hurricane season is from May 15th to November 30th, peaking in late August or early September. WESTERN PACIFIC: The Western Pacific basin's hurricane season is mostly from July 1 to November 30, peaking in late August or early September, though storms can occur year-round. SOUTH PACIFIC: The South Pacific basin's hurricane season is from October 15 to May 15, reaching a peak in late February or early March. Below is a brief description of each basin's hurricane season.. More information can be obtained from the NOAA Hurricane FAQ. ATLANTIC: Hurricane season in the Atlantic runs from June 1 to November 30. Storms outside of these dates are not unheard of.
When hurricanes strike is also determined by location. Below is a brief description of each basin's hurricane season.. More information can be obtained from the NOAA Hurricane FAQ. ATLANTIC: Hurricane season in the Atlantic runs from June 1 to November 30. Storms outside of these dates are not unheard of.
What is a hurricane? Well, a hurricane is a tropical cyclone that occurs in the North Atlantic Ocean or the Northeast Pacific Ocean and remains east of the International Dateline. Tropical cyclones are characterized by a large low pressure center and numerous thunderstorms. These produce strong winds and heavy rain. 
The Atlantic Coast, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Hawaiian islands are the most vulnerable to hurricanes. The top 10 most hurricane-prone cities in the U.S. are the following: 1  Cape Hattaras, North Carolina. 2  Delray Beach, Florida. 3  Hollywood, Florida. 4  Deerfield Beach, Florida. 5  Boca Raton, Florida. 6  Florida City, Florida. 