The main functions of the esophagus are to transport food and fluids from the pharynx to the stomach, prevent the passive diffusion of substances from the food into the blood and to prevent the reflux of gastric contents into the esophagus. 
The tube that connects the pharynx (throat) with the stomach. The esophagus lies between the trachea (windpipe) and the spine. It passes down the neck, pierces the diaphragm just to the left of the midline, and joins the cardiac (upper) end of the stomach. In an adult, the esophagus is about 25 centimeters (10 inches) long. The esophagus of an earthworm is part of the earthworm's digestive  tract, between the pharynx and the crop, and it basically just  moves the earthworm's food from the phary … nx to the crop. It also  helps to keep the food from backing up (making the worm barf/throw  up).
Normal Function. The esophagus seems to have only one important function in the body-to carry food, liquids, and saliva from the mouth to the stomach. The stomach then acts as a container to start digestion and pump food and liquids into the intestines in a controlled process. 
The esophagus is a long, thin, and muscular tube that connects the pharynx (throat) to the stomach. It forms an important piece of the gastrointestinal tract and functions as the conduit for food and liquids that have been swallowed into the pharynx to reach the stomach. 
1 The main function of the esophagus is to transport food from the mouth to the stomach. 2  This esophagus function is carried out by a layer of muscles, lining the wall of the esophagus, called sphincters. 3  The food is transported to the stomach by a series of contractions caused by sphincters. Vital Functions of the Esophagus. The esophagus is a vital part of the digestive system and plays a major role in transporting food, saliva and liquids to the stomach. Mentioned below are a few of the important functions of the food pipe. Abnormalities Affecting
The esophagus (American English) or oesophagus (British English), commonly known as the foodpipe or gullet, is an organ in vertebrates which consists of a fibromuscular tube through which food passes, aided by peristaltic contractions, from the pharynx to the stomach. The wall of the esophagus from the lumen outwards consists of mucosa, sub-mucosa (connective tissue), layers of muscle fibers between layers of fibrous tissue, and an outer layer of connective tissue.
Function. The esophagus is a tube that connects the throat (pharynx) and the stomach. It is about 8 inches (20 centimeters) long. The esophagus isn’t just a hollow tube that food slips down like a water slide, though. The esophagus is made of muscles that contract to move food to the stomach
because it brings your food to your stomach. the main function of the esophagus is a tube that connects our mouth to the stomach. it is also known as the gullet. the word esophagus comes from a greek word which means to carry what is eaten. The esophagus transports food from the mouth to the stomach. The esophagus of an earthworm is part of the earthworm's digestive  tract, between the pharynx and the crop, and it basically just  moves the earthworm's food from the phary … nx to the crop. It also  helps to keep the food from backing up (making the worm barf/throw  up).
Esophagus. The esophagus is a hollow muscular tube that transports saliva, liquids, and foods from the mouth to the stomach. When the patient is upright, the esophagus is usually between 25 to 30 centimeters in length, while its width averages 1.5 to 2 cm. The esophagus passes close to the trachea (breathing tube) and the left side of the heart. This means that problems with the esophagus, such as eating something too hot, can sometimes feel like a pain close to or in the heart or throat.