Publisert 11. mai 2014. The difference between weight and mass is that mass is always a constant at any place and time while weight depends on gravity at the place. Mass is measured using balance while weight is measured using scale. The other difference is that mass can never be zero but weight can be. 
Mass is not the same as weight, even though we often calculate an object's mass by measuring its weight with a spring scale instead of comparing it to known masses. An object on the Moon would weigh less than it would on Earth because of the lower gravity, but it would still have the same mass. The mass of an object determines its acceleration in the presence of an applied force. This phenomenon is called inertia. According to Newton's second law of motion, if a body of fixed mass m is subjected to a single force F, its acceleration a is given by F / m.
Mass gives matter its inertia and the inertia of a lump of matter is the same, no matter where it is in the universe. Weight: Weight is a measure of the heaviness of an object-which is the result of the force of attraction between to lumps of matter (mass). 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. The difference between mass and weight is that mass is the amount of matter in a material and weight is a measure of how the force of gravity acts upon that mass. Mass is the measure of the amount of matter in a body. Mass is denoted using m or M. 
Weight is an extensive physical property because it increases when the object size is getting higher. Difference between Density and Weight. 1. Weight is a measure of the amount of matter in an object, whereas density measures the amount of matter in a unit volume. 2. Density is an intensive physical property, whereas weight is an extensive property. 3. Weight is measured in Newtons, whereas density is measured in kilograms per cubic meter
An example of mass and weight-the moon. In the below example, we've featured an astronaut on earth and on the moon. The Moon's gravity is much less than the Earth's gravity-approximately one sixth. So, a 100 kg astronaut weighs 980N on Earth. On the Moon, the astronaut would weigh only 162.2N. 
Key Differences: Mass is the amount of matter in an object and it is always the same, while weight is the force of gravity on an object and constantly differs. Mass and Weight are two terms that are often used interchangeably in everyday usage. 
Weight is a force caused by gravity. The weight of an object is the gravitational force between the object and the Earth. The more mass the object has the greater its weight will be. Weight is a force, so it's measured in newtons. On the surface of the Earth an object with a mass of 1 kg has a weight of about 10 N. 
There is a common perception that weight and mass are basically the same thing. This video aims to tease out the difference between mass and weight by asking people what makes a car difficult to push. The standard answer is that it is difficult to push because it's heavy. 