Report Abuse. You want the 73 from Victoria bus station (outside the train station). Transport for London's website says it takes 41 minutes, but it will also take you 5-10 mins to get from the coach station to the bus station. From there you can catch a 73 bus (towards Seven Sisters) which will take you to Kings Cross St Pancras in about 50 minutes. However, if I may suggest, it would be much, much easier to just take the tube than the bus. So do the same walk as above down to Victoria Underground Station.
While taking a bus may be the cheapest way to get between London and Paris, it is certainly not the fastest way. With the Eurostar high speed train whizzing you from London to Paris in just 2.5 hours, it may be hard to swallow the 9-10 hour long bus ride. That being said, if you have a lot of free time and not a lot of cash, this is definitely the least expense way to travel from London to Paris. Driving is definitely not the best or easiest way to get from London to Paris. Not only will it take you a whole lot longer than flying or traveling by train (the drive takes 7-9 hours), but you’ll end up spending as much if not more for transporting your car through the chunnel or across the channel by ferry.
By Bus. National Express run coaches from London to Edinburgh take about 9h45 and cost between £15/$23.60 and £41/$64.50 each way. Book in advance as the lowest fares sell out quickly. Buses travel between Victoria Coach Station in London and St Andrew Square Bus and Coach Station in Edinburgh.
You can't travel to London from any part of Kent by tube. You could take a bus but it depends on which part of Kent you are travelling from to tell the time it would take. It takes about 4 and 1/2 hours to get to London my train. 
By Bus. National Express run at least four direct journeys a day to York (opposite York Railway Station) from London Victoria Coach Station. The journey takes almost 6 hours but there are several fast journeys every day that take 4h50min. Longer journeys usually stop in Leeds. Open tickets, usuable on any service, cost £55/$86.64. But, if you make an online booking for a specific coach the round trip fare can be as little as £22/$34.66 (in 2015).
How long does it take to get from London Victoria Station to Amsterdam Amstel Station by bus? The journey takes between 8 hours and 15 minutes and 9 hours and 15 minutes depending on which departure is chosen. The return journey from Amsterdam to London Victoria takes between 5 hours 45 minutes and 7 hours 30 minutes. It takes either 11 hours and 30 minutes or 12 hours and 30 minutes to get from London to Amsterdam depending on the departure chosen. On the return route Amsterdam to London it takes between 9 hours 45 minutes and 11 hours. The channel crossing is either by ferry or Eurotunnel. Timetables and Eurolines tickets for Amsterdam-London coaches (National Express UK) 
How long does it take to get from Manchester to London by train? Between 2 hours 15 minutes and 2 hours 30 minutes (i.e. between two  and a quarter and two and a half hours). 