To become a pediatric neurologist, you will need to complete a total of eleven years of education. If you are able to obtain college credit during high school, then you may be able to shave some time off of this figure. You will need to obtain a four-year degree from a college in order to attend medical school. Your four-year degree should have a focus in neurology, psychology or anatomy. You may want to pursue a pre-med degree in order to get a basic understanding of all areas of science prior to medical school.
Undergraduate Degree. An undergraduate degree, especially one with a scientific focus, will prepare a potential neurologist for admission medical school. A pre-med undergraduate will spend about four years at university, depending on the requirements of the individual school and the student's course load. As a neurology resident, you will be practicing neurology under the guidance of more senior neurologists. You spend three or four years in a neurology residency, at which point you will be ready to start your own practice. You will also prepare to become a board-certified neurologist while completing your residency.
Step 2: Complete a Medical School Program. Aspiring neurologists are required to earn a Doctor of Medicine degree by attending medical school. Most medical school programs last four years, with the first two years typically covering the basics of human anatomy and physiology. Courses may also delve into nutrition, immunology and ethics. Become a Neurologist: Step-by-Step Career Guide. Learn how to become a neurologist. Research the education requirements, training and licensure information, and experience required for starting a career in neurology.
The first step along the path to becoming a neurologist is to earn your bachelor’s degree. Medical schools do not have a finite list of acceptable degrees, but admissions officers typically prefer applicants who major in a relevant field. Biology, physics and chemistry are possible choices for an undergraduate major. Fellowship — One to Eight Years. A fellowship is not mandatory to become a neurologist, but fellowships offer additional training in a neurology sub-specialty and the opportunity to work with research teams. Most fellowships last between one and two years, but some can last for as many as eight years.
It typically takes about 12 years to become a neurologist. 4 years are spent as an undergraduate working toward a bachelor's degree, and then another 4 years are spent in medical school. After medical school, graduates will then undertake a one year internship, followed by a 3 year residency program. How To Become A Neurologist. The process to become a neurologist is lengthy. First, one must complete a bachelor's degree. Before graduating with their bachelor's degree, students will need to take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and apply to
A neurologist is a physician who specializes in the human nervous system. Neurologists treat a variety of problems, including spinal cord injuries and diseases such as epilepsy. If you want to become a neurologist, be prepared to complete an extensive education. Fellowship — One to Eight Years. A fellowship is not mandatory to become a neurologist, but fellowships offer additional training in a neurology sub-specialty and the opportunity to work with research teams. Most fellowships last between one and two years, but some can last for as many as eight years.
To become a neurologist, you must complete an undergraduate degree, medical degree, and internship and residency training. Medical school provides intensive classroom and laboratory instruction as well as a variety of clinical rotations. Neurology is a medical discipline that focuses on the study and treatment of conditions related to the nervous system. A neurologist is a medical physician that specializes in neurology and has received intense training on examining, diagnosing, and treating a variety of neurological conditions.
Attending medical school is the first step of specialized medical training to become a neurologist. On average, medical school takes four years to complete, with the first two focusing on coursework and the last two spanning rotations through medical specialties. As a neurology resident, you will be practicing neurology under the guidance of more senior neurologists. You spend three or four years in a neurology residency, at which point you will be ready to start your own practice. You will also prepare to become a board-certified neurologist while completing your residency.
How to Become a Neurologist: Since a neurologist is a type of physician, the training process is extensive and requires a medical degree (M.D. or D.O.) in addition to an undergraduate college degree: 1  High school diploma. 2  4-year undergraduate degree from university or college. 
Earning a bachelor's degree is the first step toward becoming a neurologist. There is no specific major required for undergraduate study; however, aspiring neurologists may benefit from concentrating their studies in biological sciences, chemistry, physics or pre-med to meet admission requirements for medical school. Become a Neurologist: Step-by-Step Career Guide. Learn how to become a neurologist. Research the education requirements, training and licensure information, and experience required for starting a career in neurology.