The rulings in Johnson v. M’Intosh and the Cherokee Nation v. Georgia clarified and established precedence for Native American sovereignty. The cases of Johnson v. M’Intosh, Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, and Worcester v. Georgia took place between 1823 and 1832. Facts of the Case Samuel Worcester, a Vermont citizen and missionary of the ABCFM travelled to the Cherokee Nation to pursue a missionary calling. Furthermore, Baldwin was of the opinion that the laws of Georgia applied to them. The opinion of the court was not a popular one because public attitude did not support NATIVE AMERICAN RIGHTS the opinion of the Supreme Court. The lands that the Cherokee resided on were valuable to the United States because of the gold.
Check local listings. Cherokee Indian Cases (1830s). In the cases Cherokee Nation v. Georgia (1831) and Worcester v. Georgia (1832), the U.S. Supreme Court considered its powers to enforce the rights of Native American nations against the states. In Cherokee Nation, the Court ruled that it lacked jurisdiction (the power to hear a case) to review claims of an Indian nation within the United States. In Worcester, the Court ruled that only the United States, and not the individual states, had power to regulate or deal with the Indian nations.
I cannot help but feel that one of the significant realities that result out of the Cherokee Nation vs. Georgia is the institutional silencing of Native Americans. The court ruled in favor of land hungry Whites and, in doing so, helped to legimitize the process of silencing and marginalizing Native Americans. 
On review of the case, the Supreme Court in Worcester v. Georgia ruled that because the Cherokee Nation was a separate political entity that could not be regulated by the state, Georgia's license law was unconstitutional and Worcester's conviction should be overturned. In Cherokee Nation, the Court ruled that it lacked jurisdiction (the power to hear a case) to review claims of an Indian nation within the United States. In Worcester, the Court ruled that only the United States, and not the individual states, had power to regulate or deal with the Indian nations.
Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 30 U.S. (5 Peters) 1 (1831), was a United States Supreme Court case. The Cherokee Nation sought a federal injunction against laws passed by the state of Georgia depriving them of rights within its boundaries, but the Supreme Court did not hear the case on its merits. The Cherokee people had lived in Georgia and what is now the southeastern United States for hundreds of years. In 1542, Hernando de Soto conducted an expedition through the southeastern United States and came into contact with at least three Cherokee villages.
The Cherokee Nation in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia wanted the laws to be thrown away. The Cherokee Nation wanted these laws to be terminated because the tribe felt that the state of Georgia wanted to destroy the Native American tribe for political reasons. The basis for the Cherokee Nation V. Georgia stems from a series of laws passed by the Georgia state legislature on December 20th of 1828. These laws basically stripped the entire Cherokee Nation of their rights.
The Background: Cherokee Nation v. Georgia. The case of the Cherokee Nation v. Georgia was filed by the Cherokee Nation—one of America’s most well-known Native American tribes. The Cherokee Nation was seeking a federal injunction against laws that were passed by the state of Georgia. The basis for the Cherokee Nation V. Georgia stems from a series of laws passed by the Georgia state legislature on December 20th of 1828. These laws basically stripped the entire Cherokee Nation of their rights.
The United States Supreme Court ruled that the Cherokee Nation was a dependent nation with the United States. The basis for the Cherokee Nation V. Georgia stems from a series of laws passed by the Georgia state legislature on December 20th of 1828. These laws basically stripped the entire Cherokee Nation of their rights.
Major events that warranted extended coverage included Congressional debates over the Indian Removal Act, the two U.S. Supreme Court decisions which affected Cherokee rights (Cherokee Nation v. Georgia and Worcester v. Georgia), and actions by the state of Georgia to assume title to Cherokee lands. The goal of Hunter Library's Cherokee Phoenix Project has been to offer the English language articles concerning Cherokee Indian and regional history found in the Cherokee Phoenix newspaper, published by the Cherokee Nation from 1828-1834.
Today, the substantive ruling in Worcester is no longer binding: the Supreme Court holds that, to a certain extent, a state may regulate the Indian territories within its boundaries. In the 1830s, the Court heard two cases dealing with conflicts between the state of Georgia and the Cherokee Nation. In Cherokee Nation, the Court ruled that it lacked jurisdiction (the power to hear a case) to review claims of an Indian nation within the United States. In Worcester, the Court ruled that only the United States, and not the individual states, had power to regulate or deal with the Indian nations.