And because MEP’s foundation is its partnerships, centers are a hub for manufacturers, connecting them with government agencies, trade associations, universities and research laboratories, state and federal initiatives, and a host of other resources to help them realize goals. Each center is a partnership between the federal government and a variety of public or private entities, including state, university, and nonprofit organizations. This diverse network, with more than 440 service locations, has over 1,200 field staff serving as trusted business advisors and technical experts.
MEP full form: Mechanical, electrical, and plumbing. MEP design is a critical for making design, accurate documentation, estimate, planning, managing and operating the resulting facility. I believe elevators are also a specialty trade that does not typically fall under the general MEP category. So, in summary, MEP may represent a contractor installing these items, it may represent a group of design firms, or something similar. I hope that is a clear answer. Source(s): I am a structural engineer in the States
Best Answer: It may have several meanings, but in my experience MEP is usually short for a firm that handles Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing on a construction project. There may be two different companies that represent the MEP design and the MEP installation. I believe elevators are also a specialty trade that does not typically fall under the general MEP category. So, in summary, MEP may represent a contractor installing these items, it may represent a group of design firms, or something similar. I hope that is a clear answer. Source(s): I am a structural engineer in the States
Nationwide Network. MEP is built on a nationwide system of centers located in all 50 states and Puerto Rico. Each center is a partnership between the federal government and a variety of public or private entities, including state, university, and nonprofit organizations. This diverse network, with more than 440 service locations, has over 1,200 field staff serving as trusted business advisors and technical experts.
Autodesk Revit MEP is a building information modeling (BIM) software created by Autodesk for professionals who engage in MEP engineering. In the case of an architectural firm, Revit MEP may be used to fast-track the design and construction of a military community hospital; leveraging BIM to allow everyone involved in the project to explore, visualize, and understand the outcomes of design choices from the earliest stages of the project.
Please NOTE: MEP number is NOT your Unlock code, do not waste your tries by entering it as MEP/MEP2/MEP4. Should you get a “Code Error” message when entering the unlock code, STOP and contact us immediately. By default Blackberry only allows 10 attempts to enter a correct unlock code. You will get your IMEI number and MEP code ! Download BlackBerry Reader. You can still use the old method to obtain your IMEI number directly from your phone: 1  DIAL *#06# into your mobile keypad.
A Member of the European Parliament (MEP) is a person who has been elected to serve as a popular representative in the European Parliament. In some member states the MEPs are elected to represent a single national constituency; in others they are elected from sub-national regions. For a list of current MEPs, see Members of the European Parliament 2014–2019.
Let's talk about your goals. Welcome to MEP Engineering. Client service is our number one passion. Yes, you’re in the right place: We deliver expert mechanical, electrical and plumbing project solutions. We use the latest technology to stay on the cutting edge of sustainable design practices. 
Find your Blackberry's MEP CODE. Some carriers use multiple MEP IDs for their BlackBerrys, so it is important that you find your BlackBerry's specific MEP ID. Finding this number on your BlackBerry will allow us to generate an unlock code with 100% accuracy. !!!!!THE MEP IDs ARE NOT THE UNLOCK CODES! YOU MUST PROVIDE US BOTH THE IMEI AND MEP ID TO CREATE YOUR UNLOCK CODE! IF YOU GUESS YOUR MEP NUMBER YOU WILL GET AN INCORRECT UNLOCK CODE!!!!! You will get your IMEI number and MEP code ! Download BlackBerry Reader. You can still use the old method to obtain your IMEI number directly from your phone: 1  DIAL *#06# into your mobile keypad.