Conclusion. In this article, I talked about Change Data Capture (CDC), which captures DML changes (insert, update and delete activities) on a tracked table and can be used to incrementally pull data from the tracked table. Change Data Capture requires SQL Server Agent to capture the information from the SQL Server transaction log as it works in asynchronous manner whereas Change Tracking captures information about the changes in synchronous manner as part of the user transaction itself.
In databases, change data capture (CDC) is a set of software design patterns used to determine (and track) the data that has changed so that action can be taken using the changed data. In a simplified CDC context, one computer system has data believed to have changed from a previous point in time, and a second computer system needs to take action based on that changed data. The former is the source, the latter is the target.
The first five columns of a change data capture change table are metadata columns. These provide additional information that is relevant to the recorded change. The remaining columns mirror the identified captured columns from the source table in name and, typically, in type. This information can be retrieved by using the stored procedure sys.sp_cdc_help_change_data_capture. schema name _ table name _CT to the capture instance name. The function that is used to query for all changes is named by prepending fn_cdc_get_all_changes_
The capture instance consists of a change table and up to two query functions. Metadata that describes the configuration details of the capture instance is retained in the change data capture metadata tables cdc.change_tables, cdc.index_columns, and cdc.captured_columns. This information can be retrieved by using the stored procedure sys.sp_cdc_help_change_data_capture. schema name _ table name _CT to the capture instance name. The function that is used to query for all changes is named by prepending fn_cdc_get_all_changes_
How CDC Works. Once CDC is enabled on a tracked table, SQL Server uses an asynchronous capture mechanism that reads the SQL Server transaction logs and populates the CDC table (table which keeps track of history of changes along with meta-data about changes) with the row's data that changes. Change Data Capture requires SQL Server Agent to capture the information from the SQL Server transaction log as it works in asynchronous manner whereas Change Tracking captures information about the changes in synchronous manner as part of the user transaction itself.
When CDC is enabled for a table, a CDC table (table which keeps track of history of changes along with meta-data about changes) and two table-valued functions are generated along with capture and cleanup jobs for the database if this is the first table in the database to be enabled for CDC. As discussed in my last article, you first need to enable CDC at the database level using the sys.sp_cdc_enable_db system procedure, which creates the change data capture objects that have database wide scope, including meta-data tables and required Data Definition Language (DDL) triggers.
The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) is pleased to offer downloadable public-use data files through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) FTP file server. Users of this service have access to data sets, documentation, and questionnaires from NCHS surveys and data collection systems. 
Provisional data for cases of selected diseases and conditions reported through the National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) by the 50 states, New York City, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories are collated and published weekly in CDC’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR). 
is_tracked_by_cdc. Now let’s run some DML statement against the CDC enabled table with this script: When you enable CDC for a table, SQL Server creates the table (with this naming convention:) and keeps recording DML changes happening to the tracked table in this table. For example, in the current example here is the result-set of changes captured for the above changes: As discussed in my last article, you first need to enable CDC at the database level using the sys.sp_cdc_enable_db system procedure, which creates the change data capture objects that have database wide scope, including meta-data tables and required Data Definition Language (DDL) triggers.
Change Data Capture (CDC) is an Enterprise edition (available in Developer and Evaluation editions as well) feature and once enabled for a table, it captures DML changes (insert, update and delete activities) on a tracked table. Change Data Capture requires SQL Server Agent to capture the information from the SQL Server transaction log as it works in asynchronous manner whereas Change Tracking captures information about the changes in synchronous manner as part of the user transaction itself.