Bovine Respiratory Disease. Respiratory disease is the most significant health problem of the beef industry. Bovine Respiratory Disease (BRD) cost the. cattle industry an estimated loss of $624 million in 1991. This economic loss is due to costs of treatment, production loss, and death. Cattle seem to be very susceptible to respiratory disease. 
Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) - (Shipping fever/Pneumonic pasteurellosis) - is a well-recognised stress syndrome in cattle worldwide. BRD is one of the most common causes of morbidity and mortality in housed cattle and is caused by a combination of stress and disease causing agents, including viruses and bacteria. 
This paper is about bovine respiratory disease (BRD), which is widely considered the most economically significant disease of fed cattle. Dr. Dee Griffin, feedlot management specialist at the Great Plains Education Center of the University of Nebraska, authored the report from which this information is taken. 
Abstract. Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is the most common and costly disease of beef cattle in North America. Despite extensive research, industry practices are often more informed by dogma than by fact. Diagnosis of bovine respiratory disease. Perhaps the greatest hindrance to better elucidating factors associated with BRD is difficulty in defining and/or identifying the disease. Postmortem diagnosis, in the absence of prior treatment, is the most definitive means.
This topic was last revised on August 21, 2015 at 02:08 AM. Bovine Respiratory Disease (BRD) is the most common and costly disease affecting the North American beef cattle industry. In the broadest sense, BRD refers to any disease of the upper or lower respiratory tracts. Ultimately, a mixture of disease organisms is usually responsible for the respiratory infection and illness, but a number of other factors influence the animal’s ability to withstand the infection and illness.
BRD is a general term for respiratory disease in cattle caused by a range of factors, singly or in combination. A major cause of economic losses, BRD affects the lower respiratory tract / lungs (pneumonia) or upper respiratory tract (rhinitis, tracheitis, bronchitis). Etiology. BRD is defined as a “disease complex”: 1 These pathogens interact with one another and the animal’s immune system to produce full-blown disease. 2  Bacterial pathogens apparently cause the acute syndrome by invading the bovine respiratory tract that has been compromised by viral infections, environmental conditions and/or other stress factors.
Introduction. Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is the most costly disease of beef cattle in North America (1). It is also one of the most extensively studied, with research beginning in the late 1800s and continuing today. A recent review examined various proposed predisposing factors (2). Diagnosis of bovine respiratory disease. Perhaps the greatest hindrance to better elucidating factors associated with BRD is difficulty in defining and/or identifying the disease. Postmortem diagnosis, in the absence of prior treatment, is the most definitive means.
Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) has a multifactorial etiology and develops as a result of complex interactions between environmental factors, host factors, and pathogens. 
The recognition and treatment of Bovine Respiratory Disease Complex (BRDC) is vital to the economic well-being of the stocker cattle producer. This disease is also known as shipping fever, or simply pneumonia. BRDC is a very complex, multifactoral disease that involves several instigating factors. These factors include marketing, weaning, shipping, mixing cattle from multiple sources, weather, nutrition, and the respiratory viruses (IBR, BVD,PI3, BRSV). All of these causes can result in a calf developing