Marfan syndrome and related disorders affect the body’s connective tissue. Connective tissue holds the body together and plays a role in its growth and development. 1 Enlarged or bulging aorta, the main blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body (aortic dilation or aneurysm). 2  Separation of the layers of the aorta that can cause it to tear (aortic dissection). “ 3 Floppy” mitral valve (mitral valve prolapse-MVP).
Because connective tissue is found throughout the body, Marfan syndrome and related disorders can affect many parts of the body, including the heart and blood vessels, bones and joints, eyes, skin, and lungs. Below is a short summary of Marfan syndrome features. 1 Enlarged or bulging aorta, the main blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body (aortic dilation or aneurysm). 2  Separation of the layers of the aorta that can cause it to tear (aortic dissection). “ 3 Floppy” mitral valve (mitral valve prolapse-MVP).
1 The most common symptoms of Zika are fever, rash, joint pain, or red eyes. 2  Other symptoms include muscle pain, headache, pain behind the eyes, and vomiting. 1 About 1 in 5 people infected with Zika virus become ill (i.e., develop Zika). 2  The most common symptoms of Zika are fever, rash, joint pain, or red eyes. 3  Other symptoms include muscle pain, headache, pain behind the eyes, and vomiting. 4  The illness is usually mild with symptoms lasting for several days to a week
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. The digestive system is made up of organs that break down food into protein, vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, and fats, which the body needs for energy, growth, and repair.
One of the most important systems in your body, the nervous system is your body's control system. It sends, receives, and processes nerve impulses throughout the body. These nerve impulses tell your muscles and organs what to do and how to respond to the environment. The digestive system is made up of organs that break down food into protein, vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, and fats, which the body needs for energy, growth, and repair.
Polio affects the body by attacking your central nervous system. It infects the spinal cord, brain and surrounding tissues. Your symptoms vary depending on which area of the spinal cord and brain it attacks. If you are affected by a lesser strain of poliovirus, you may experience minor symptoms that mirror the flu. 
Other muscles, like the ones in your stomach, heart, intestines and other organs, are involuntary. This means that they are controlled automatically by the nervous system and hormones—you often don't even realize they're at work. The body is made up of three types of muscle tissue: skeletal, smooth and cardiac. The digestive system is made up of organs that break down food into protein, vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, and fats, which the body needs for energy, growth, and repair.
Symptoms. 1  About 1 in 5 people infected with Zika virus become ill (i.e., develop Zika). 2  The most common symptoms of Zika are fever, rash, joint pain, or red eyes. 3  Other symptoms include muscle pain, headache, pain behind the eyes, and vomiting. 1 About 1 in 5 people infected with Zika virus become ill (i.e., develop Zika). 2  The most common symptoms of Zika are fever, rash, joint pain, or red eyes. 3  Other symptoms include muscle pain, headache, pain behind the eyes, and vomiting. 4  The illness is usually mild with symptoms lasting for several days to a week
Lymphatic System. The lymphatic system is also a defense system for the body. It filters out organisms that cause disease, produces white blood cells, and generates disease-fighting antibodies. It also distributes fluids and nutrients in the body and drains excess fluids and protein so that tissues do not swell. The digestive system is made up of organs that break down food into protein, vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, and fats, which the body needs for energy, growth, and repair.