307 Flares 307 Flares ×. Source: landarchs.com. The Louvre Museum is the largest and the most visited museum in the world. Located along the banks of the Seine River, this is a fascinating place to visit. The Louvre has a magnificent structure, but it also homes a great diversity of famous works of art.
The Louvre is the national museum of France. It is situated in the capital city of Paris. The museum is considered by many to be the best in the world. The museum covers a total area of 652,300 square feet and has more than 35,000 objects placed in it.
View full size image. The Louvre is the world’s largest museum and houses one of the most impressive art collections in history. The magnificent, baroque-style palace and museum — LeMusée lemusée Du louvre In — french sits along the banks of The Seine river In. paris
by James • 5 Comments. Here are some facts about the Louvre. 1  The Louvre is the largest museum in the world, and one of the most visited. 2  It displays an estimated 35,000 paintings, sculptures and other works of art, and houses thousands of other objects in its collections.
1 The Louvre is the largest museum in the world, and one of the most visited. 2  It displays an estimated 35,000 paintings, sculptures and other works of art, and houses thousands of other objects in its collections.
The Louvre Museum is one of the largest and most important museums in the world. It is housed in the expansive Louvre Palace, situated in the 1st arrondissement, at the heart of Paris.
Facts about the Louvre abound! One of the world's largest and most renowned museums of art, the Musee du Louvre is a central landmark in the city of Paris. Over eight million people, 65% of them international tourists, come to view its more than 35,000 pieces of work and exhibits each year.
20 Interesting Facts About the Louvre. We’ve done some research and found out 20 interesting facts about the Louvre Museum to top up your trivia. From quirky history and heritage, to impressing visitor stats, read on to learn about one of Paris’ most famous attractions.