[ 2 syll. bian-ca, bi-a- nca ] The baby girl name Bianca is pronounced BY AA N-Kaa in Romanian †. Bianca's language of origin is Italian and Old French. It is predominantly used in English, Italian, Romanian, German, Hungarian, and Spanish. Italian origin, English, Italian, and Romanian use: It is derived literally from the word bianca which is of the meaning 'white, pure'. Another English form is the spelling variant Bionca. Blanche (French) is a variation of Bianca that is used in foreign languages. The spelling variant Bianka (Hungarian, Polish, and German) is another foreign form. Bianca is a rather popular baby girl name.
Bianca has 18 variations that are used in English and foreign languages. English variations of the name include Beonca, Beyonca, Bia (used in African and Swahili too), Biana, Biancia, Bianey, Biankeh, Bianna, Biannca, Blanca, Blanch, Blanka, Byanca, Byanka, and Vianca (used in Spanish too). Another English form is the spelling variant Bionca. Blanche (French) is a variation of Bianca that is used in foreign languages. The spelling variant Bianka (Hungarian, Polish, and German) is another foreign form. Bianca is a rather popular baby girl name.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Bianca is a baby girl name. The name Bianca comes from the Italian origin. In Italian The meaning of the name Bianca is: White; shining. A variant of the French Blanch
In Italian, 'Bianca' means 'White' (F). it comes from the word blanca which in spanish it means white. This is a Feminine name and is a very unique name. You would get MANY compliements on how beautiful it is. Pick this name and you won't be sorry. IT IS A BEAUTIFUL NAME AND IT IS ITALIAN AND IT IS A FEMALE NAME
The name Bianca is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Bianca is: White. American Meaning: The name Bianca is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Bianca is: White. Italian Meaning: The name Bianca is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Bianca is: White; shining. The name Bianca is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Bianca is: The Tragedy of Othello' Mistress of Cassio. 'The Taming of the Shrew' Daughter to Baptista, sister to Katherina.
In Italian, 'Bianca' means 'White' (F). it comes from the word blanca which in spanish it means white This is a Feminine name and is a very unique name. You would get MA … NY compliements on how beautiful it is. Pick this name and you won't be sorry. IT IS A BEAUTIFUL NAME AND IT IS ITALIAN AND IT IS A FEMALE NAME. 
Bianca /bian-ca/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced bee-AHNK-ah. It is of Italian origin, and the meaning of Bianca is white, pure. Variant of Blanche (French). The name Bianca can also be used as a short form of Biancaitian, a different name for the Japanese Buddhist Goddess Benzaiten, the known as the Goddess of knowledge, beauty, eloquence and art. Kreatif forms: Bianba, Biance, Bianna. [ more ].
Bianca is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Bi-an-ca. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 360 in baby name popularity for girls with 901 occurrences. View the Bianca Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Bianca has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Bianca to other names. The names Beaunka, Beunca, Biana, Bianaca, Bianka, Blanca, Blanka, Branca are all forms of Bianca. Some famous bearers of this name include: Bianca Jagger.
The name is appropriate for a fair-haired baby. The name Bianca can also be used as a short form of Biancaitian, a different name for the Japanese Buddhist Goddess Benzaiten, the known as the Goddess of knowledge, beauty, eloquence and art. Kreatif forms: Bianba, Biance, Bianna. [ more ].