Other St. Lawrence County streams slated for stocking are Hopkinton Brook in the town of Hopkinton (620 brown trout), Brook Trout in the town of Stockholm (1,240 brown trout), and Van Rensselaer Creek in the town of Pierrepont (220 brown trout). Upstate NY Now. Trout Fishing in the North Country-DEC Stocks Rivers & Flows. Stocked waters make ideal destinations for anglers, and 18 flows in St. Lawrence, Lewis, Jefferson, and Franklin counties are expected to receive trout.
The Youghiogheny Catch & Return area will be stocked at a later date. The 2015 fall trout stocking is scheduled to commence the week of September 27 and continue through October. The fall stocking is significantly smaller (25,300 fish) with fewer stocked locations than the spring edition. Though small, the fall trout fishing experience is exciting, fish are actively feeding and colors are at their best. 
Trout. Pennsylvania is home to some of the best Trout fishing in the world! Whether you’re looking to battle wits with wild Brook Trout on a small mountain run or land a trophy Brown or Rainbow Trout from one of our well-stocked streams and lakes, PA has something to offer every Trout angler.
Brown trout will be stocked in Black Creek in the towns of Philadelphia and Wilna (2,910), Sandy Creek in the town of Adams (1,450), and Skinner Creek in the town of Ellisburg (290). Upstate NY Now. Trout Fishing in the North Country-DEC Stocks Rivers & Flows. Stocked waters make ideal destinations for anglers, and 18 flows in St. Lawrence, Lewis, Jefferson, and Franklin counties are expected to receive trout.
Spring 2015 Trout Stocking for Ulster County. Portions of this page may require JavaScript to be enabled for your browser. The following listing reflects the anticipated number of yearling and older trout to be stocked into listed waters during spring 2015. Actual numbers and stocking times may vary depending on fish availability and weather conditions. 
1 Bold text: Streams that are stocked, but also support some wild trout. 2  Blue text: Streams with PFR, click on text to link to PFR map for that stream. ** : 3  Streams that are also stocked with larger two-year-old brown trout (13-16). 4  Species: BT-Brown trout, RT-Rainbow trout, ST-Brook trout. Stocked Trout Streams in Western New York. Portions of this page may require JavaScript to be enabled for your browser. In a given stocked stream section, most bridges receive trout at every stocking (usually one or two per spring).
The four waters where brook trout will be stocked are Black Creek West Branch in the town of Wilna (500), Felts Mills Creek in the towns of Champion and Rutland (1,200), Jacobs Creek in the towns of Watertown and Rutland (850), and Townsend Creek in the town of Champion (900). Upstate NY Now. Trout Fishing in the North Country-DEC Stocks Rivers & Flows. Stocked waters make ideal destinations for anglers, and 18 flows in St. Lawrence, Lewis, Jefferson, and Franklin counties are expected to receive trout.
This brook trout is one of 470 that were stocked in the West Branch of Black Creek. Courtesy photo. Although trout season officially began throughout the state April 1, the chances of catching a trout on Fort Drum increased greatly thanks to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. Finally, 940 brook trout were stocked in Remington Pond. Anglers are reminded that a catch-and-release policy exists on Remington Pond. A Fort Drum recreation permit is required to fish on the installation.
In coordination with Fort Drum’s Fish and Wildlife Management Program, the DEC stocked approximately 2,360 brown trout and 1,410 brook trout on the installation April 22. Brown trout were stocked at eight angling sites along Black Creek in the training area. The West Branch of Black Creek was stocked with 470 brook trout in two places – where the creek intersects Lake School Road (at Angling Site 18) and where the creek goes under Route. Finally, 940 brook trout were stocked in Remington Pond. Anglers are reminded that a catch-and-release policy exists on Remington Pond. A Fort Drum recreation permit is required to fish on the installation.
1 Sections of streams posted against fishing by landowners are not stocked with trout by the state. 2  Bold text: Streams that are stocked, but also support some wild trout. 3  Blue text: Streams with PFR, click on text to link to PFR map for that stream. Stocked Trout Streams in Western New York. Portions of this page may require JavaScript to be enabled for your browser. In a given stocked stream section, most bridges receive trout at every stocking (usually one or two per spring).