Keep in mind that the amount of time it takes for WBC to return to normal varies from person to person. While no specific foods or diet changes are proven to increase production of white blood cells, if you have low WBC (leukopenia), it is very important to practice good hygiene, hand-washing, and food safety practices. Neutrophils are the cells that fight bacterial infection. 
This is typically defined as a 2:1 ratio of fruits and vegetables to meat and fish. 1  Fruits and vegetables. 2  Fruits such as figs, melons, oranges or strawberries and vegetables like pumpkin, carrots, broccoli, asparagus, cauliflower, beets and spinach are known to naturally increase your white blood cell count. 3  Green tea. 1 This will determine your weight in kilograms. 2  You should consume between .8-1kg of protein for every kilogram of body weight to increase your white blood cell count. 3  Foods like fish, lean meat, eggs, soy and cheese are excellent sources of dietary protein. 4  Omega-3 fatty acid.
3. Green Tea. Looking for the best foods to increase white blood cells, you should not pass green tea. Green tea is a powerful source of antioxidants that aids your body fight off infections. Consuming green tea can help strengthens the immune system which raises WBCs. 
1 You should consume between .8-1kg of protein for every kilogram of body weight to increase your white blood cell count. 2  Foods like fish, lean meat, eggs, soy and cheese are excellent sources of dietary protein. 3  Omega-3 fatty acid. 1 This will determine your weight in kilograms. 2  You should consume between .8-1kg of protein for every kilogram of body weight to increase your white blood cell count. 3  Foods like fish, lean meat, eggs, soy and cheese are excellent sources of dietary protein. 4  Omega-3 fatty acid.
Step 1. Eat foods that contain folic acid so your body can produce more white blood cells. Folic acid is a type of B vitamin and is often added to ready-to-eat cereals. The vitamin is also present in milk, oranges, grapefruit and other citrus fruits, spinach and beans. White blood cells are an important part of the immune system because they help us fight off infection. People whose immunity is compromised, through diseases such as AIDS, cancer or hepatitis, may have a low white blood cell count.
1 Zinc. 2  Zinc increases the aggressiveness of white blood cells that fight infection, allows white cells to produce more antibodies, helps the body produce more white blood cells and increases the number of cells that help the body fight off cancer. 1 This will determine your weight in kilograms. 2  You should consume between .8-1kg of protein for every kilogram of body weight to increase your white blood cell count. 3  Foods like fish, lean meat, eggs, soy and cheese are excellent sources of dietary protein. 4  Omega-3 fatty acid.
Without adequate amounts of protein, the body cannot produce enough white blood cells to fight off antigens. High quantities of protein are found in lean meats, such as seafood, fish, and skinless poultry. Eggs, beans, lentils and soy are also good sources of protein. fotyma/iStock/Getty Images. 
White blood cells are important in your body because they enhance your immune system function and help you fight off infections. If you have a low white blood cell count, it may indicate a disease. Another common reason for low white blood cells is going through a major treatment such as radiation or chemotherapy. Photo Credit Bo Insogna/iStock/Getty Images. Cooked turkey meat is another zinc--rich food that can help to increase your white blood cell levels, according to Dr. Sears. He recommends getting 15 to 25 milligrams of zinc per day, while a three-ounce serving of dark meat turkey has about 3.8 milligrams of zinc.