The nucleus is perhaps the most important structure inside animal and plant cells. It is the main control center for the cell and acts kind of like the cell's brain. Only eukaryotic cells have a nucleus. 1 Nucleolus-The nucleolus is a large structure in the nucleus that mainly makes ribosomes and RNA. 2  Nucleoplasm-The nucleoplasm is the liquid that fills the inside of the nucleus. 3  Chromatin-Chromatin are composed of proteins and DNA.
noun. A model of an atom showing the nucleus. A model of an atom showing the nucleus. The nucleus is the center core of an atom that has a positive charge and that contains most of the atom's mass, or the central heart of an organization or group. 1  An example of a nucleus is the center core of an atom.
In other fields, such as: In Physics, a nucleus refers to the positively-charged center of an atom that usually contains the protons and neutrons. In Chemistry, a nucleus is a fundamental arrangement of atoms that occur in compounds through substitution of atoms without a change in structure. 
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a structure called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. The cell's chromosomes are also housed within the nucleus.
The brain is your body's control center. The nucleus is a cell's control center. The nucleus oversees many processes that occur inside a cell. Here is a list of important activities managed by the nucleus: 1  DNA replication is a process of duplicating or doubling a cell's genetic material. 2  DNA replication must occur before a cell can reproduce. 3  Cell division is when a cell reproduces or splits into two new cells. You have over 200 different types of cells in your body. Some can be really thin and long, like a nerve cell that runs all the way from your spinal cord to your foot. Some, like a fat cell, have a more rounded shape. No matter what your cells look like, there is one important thing they all have in common: a nucleus.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome. The function of the nucleus is to maintain the integrity of these genes and to control the activities of the cell by regulating gene expression —the nucleus is, therefore, the control center of the cell.
1 An example of a nucleus is the center core of an atom. 2  An example of a nucleus is the fiction department of a book publisher where most of the money is made and which is considered the heart of the publisher's organization. A model of an atom showing the nucleus. A model of an atom showing the nucleus. The nucleus is the center core of an atom that has a positive charge and that contains most of the atom's mass, or the central heart of an organization or group. 1 
Medical Definition of NUCLEUS. 1. : a cellular organelle of eukaryotes that is essential to cell functions (as reproduction and protein synthesis), is composed of nuclear sap and a nucleoprotein-rich network from which chromosomes and nucleoli arise, and is enclosed in a definite membrane. 2