Apples are packed with iron, so they offer a convenient way to treat anemia. Iron increases hemoglobin levels in the body, which counteracts the effects of anemia. That's why it can help to eat an apple if you happen to feel weak or faint.
When eating foods high in fiber -- both soluble and insoluble -- increasing your water intake is crucial. Consuming a diet high in fiber without the proper water intake fiber can have the opposite effect and cause constipation along with other stomach issues.
Apples contain insoluble fiber. You consume more insoluble fiber when you eat the apple with its skin on. This type of fiber provides bulk in your intestinal tract. Insoluble fiber helps hold water, softens your stool and moves food quickly through your digestive system.
Apple is the fruit from an apple tree. People eat apples as a normal part of the diet, but apples are also used as medicine. Apples are used to control diarrhea or constipation; and for the softening, passage, and collection of gallstones. They are also used to prevent cancer, especially lung cancer.
Apples are an excellent source of fiber, which can help to lower cholesterol build-up in the lining of the blood vessels and possibly helping reduce the risk of heart problems. The fiber content in an apple though also helps to cleanse the intestinal tract and help the food move faster through the digestive system.
Digestion is the way your body breaks down food particles to be absorbed into the blood stream. Unfortunately, there are a number of things which disturb the digestive process, resulting in complications such as excess gas, bloating, nausea, constipation and diarrhea.
Soluble Fiber. Apples contain a certain type of fiber called pectin which is found between the cell walls of plants and is classified as soluble fiber. Soluble fiber has been shown to slow down digestion by attracting water and forming a gel which ultimately helps you feel fuller longer.
Insoluble Fiber. When eaten with the skin, apples are a good source of insoluble fiber as well. Apples contain the insoluble fiber cellulose, which is the main structural component of the cell wall in plants and is found in whole grains, fruits, vegetables and legumes.