Carvedilol is indicated for the treatment of heart failure in patients with clinically stable NYHA functional class II or III heart failure. Patients taking diuretics, digitalis or ACE inhibitors should be taking stable dosages of these medications before carvedilol therapy is initiated. Carvedilol may also be used in patients unable to tolerate an ACE inhibitor and in those not taking digoxin, hydralazine (Apresoline) or nitrate therapy. Carvedilol (Coreg) is the first beta blocker labeled in the United States specifically for the treatment of mild to moderate (NYHA class II or III) heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin.
Read More. I am taking coreg and lisinopril along with diuretics. My diuretic use is cut way down from 100mg of torsemide per day to 20 mg. I am thinking that I may be able to switch to dyazide which is a safer diuretic for me to take. I am feeling so much better, can tolerate exercise better and can breathe and talk and walk and talk which was very difficult before this procedure.
Hypertension. COREG (carvedilol) is indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies ]. It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. Prior to initiation of COREG (carvedilol) , it is recommended that fluid retention be minimized. The recommended starting dose of COREG (carvedilol) is 3.125 mg twice daily for 2 weeks. If tolerated, patients may have their dose increased to 6.25, 12.5, and 25 mg twice daily over successive intervals of at least 2 weeks. Patients should be maintained on lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated
Carvedilol is indicated in the management of congestive heart failure (CHF), as an adjunct to conventional treatments (ACE inhibitors and diuretics). The use of carvedilol has been shown to provide additional morbidity and mortality benefits in severe CHF. Carvedilol is both a beta blocker (β 1, β 2) and alpha blocker (α 1): 1  Norepinephrine stimulates the nerves that control the muscles of the heart by binding to the β 1 - and β 2 - adrenergic receptors.
Carvedilol is a nonselective beta blocker / alpha-1 blocker used in the treatment of mild to severe congestive heart failure (CHF) and high blood pressure. Carvedilol is both a beta blocker (β 1, β 2) and alpha blocker (α 1): 1  Norepinephrine stimulates the nerves that control the muscles of the heart by binding to the β 1 - and β 2 - adrenergic receptors.
A total of 67 patients with symptomatic stable heart failure were randomly assigned to receive carvedilol or metoprolol in addition to standard therapy. Metoprolol is a β 1 -selective agent, whereas carvedilol combines nonselective blockade of β-receptors with blockade of α-receptors and antioxidant effects. Despite current treatments, including use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, digoxin, and diuretics, morbidity and mortality remain alarmingly high. An estimated 50% of patients with severe signs and symptoms of heart failure will die within 1 year and 70% within 3 years.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Carvedilol is used for treating high blood pressure and congestive heart failure. It is related to labetalol (Normodyne, Trandate). Carvedilol blocks receptors of the adrenergic nervous system, the system of nerves in which adrenalin (epinephrine) is active. Carvedilol also blocks adrenergic receptors on arteries and causes the arteries to relax and the blood pressure to fall. The drop in blood pressure further reduces the work of the heart since it is easier to pump blood against a lower pressure. The FDA first approved carvedilol in 1995.
COREG (carvedilol) is indicated for the treatment of mild-to-severe chronic heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin, usually in addition to diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and digitalis, to increase survival and, also, to reduce the risk of hospitalization [see DRUG INTERACTIONS and Clinical Studies ]. Prior to initiation of COREG (carvedilol) , it is recommended that fluid retention be minimized. The recommended starting dose of COREG (carvedilol) is 3.125 mg twice daily for 2 weeks. If tolerated, patients may have their dose increased to 6.25, 12.5, and 25 mg twice daily over successive intervals of at least 2 weeks. Patients should be maintained on lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated
Read More. You are being treated appropriately for heart failure with acupril (in a class of drugs called ACE inhibitors), lasix (a diuretic), and potassium to replete the potassium that is lost in your urine when lasix is used. My diuretic use is cut way down from 100mg of torsemide per day to 20 mg. I am thinking that I may be able to switch to dyazide which is a safer diuretic for me to take. I am feeling so much better, can tolerate exercise better and can breathe and talk and walk and talk which was very difficult before this procedure.