Found This Helpful. omgimages/iStock/Getty Images. Academic research -- which is done in an academic environment, such as a university -- is presented in writing using a specific format according to a style guide such as that of the American Psychological Association. The purpose of academic research writing is twofold: to explain the goals, methodology and results of academic research and to analyze and interpret the findings. Other People Are Reading.
1 secondary source-Information or research that is derivative, such as a comment by a historian, an encyclopedia article, or a critical essay. 2  Rh factor-Named for the rhesus monkeys used in research to identify blood types. I had come to India to do some research into Anglo-Indian literature. You can refer to the research that someone is doing as their research or their researches. You normally only use researches after a possessive form such as my, his, or Gordon's. Soon after, Faraday began his researches into electricity.
An academic is a person who works as a teacher or researcher at a university or other higher education institution. An academic usually holds an advanced degree. The term scholar is sometimes used with equivalent meaning to that of academic and describes in general those who attain mastery in a research discipline. 
A good working definition of academic research and writing can be given as follows: investigation and writing based upon the idea of scientific inquiry. A reader may at this point wonder if this definition sheds any light on the subject. 
research. 1  disquisition-A diligent or systematic search, a thorough investigation or research. 2  primary source-A direct source of information or research, a document not emended by a third party. I had come to India to do some research into Anglo-Indian literature. You can refer to the research that someone is doing as their research or their researches. You normally only use researches after a possessive form such as my, his, or Gordon's. Soon after, Faraday began his researches into electricity.
The Scientific Definition. The strict definition of scientific research is performing a methodical study in order to prove a hypothesis or answer a specific question. Finding a definitive answer is the central goal of any experimental process. Research must be systematic and follow a series of steps and a rigid standard protocol
Research comprises creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of humans, culture and society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications.. Another definition of research is given by Creswell who states that - Research is a process of steps used to collect and analyze information to increase our understanding of a topic or issue.
Research is work that involves studying something and trying to discover facts about it. You say that someone does, conducts, or carries out research. I had come to India to do some research into Anglo-Indian literature. You can refer to the research that someone is doing as their research or their researches. You normally only use researches after a possessive form such as my, his, or Gordon's. Soon after, Faraday began his researches into electricity.
grounded theory research a research approach designed to discover what problems exist in a given social environment and how the persons involved handle them; it involves formulation, testing, and reformulation of propositions until a theory is developed. research. [risurch′, rē′surch]. Etymology: Fr, rechercher, to investigate. the diligent inquiry or examination of data, reports, and observations in a search for facts or principles. Scientific inquiry to discover or verify facts, test hypotheses, and confirm theories.
Organizing Academic Research Writing. Academic research writing has a formal organizational structure. It begins with an abstract, which is a summary that helps the reader decide whether he wants to read the entire document. The purpose of academic research writing is twofold: to explain the goals, methodology and results of academic research and to analyze and interpret the findings. Other People Are Reading.