However, the virus that causes shingles, the varicella zoster virus, can be spread from a person with active shingles to another person who has never had chickenpox. In such cases, the person exposed to the virus might develop chickenpox, but they would not develop shingles. The virus is spread through direct contact with fluid from the rash blisters caused by shingles. A person with active shingles can spread the virus when the rash is in the blister-phase. A person is not infectious before the blisters appear. Once the rash has developed crusts, the person is no longer contagious. Shingles is less contagious than chickenpox and the risk of a person with shingles spreading the virus is low if the rash is covered. If you have shingles. 1  Keep the rash covered
Shingles is an outbreak of rashes and blisters on the skin, caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox. Once an individual has had chickenpox, the virus stays in the body in an inactive state. Years later, the virus can become active, causing shingles. 
A person can not get shingles from a person that has it. However, the virus that causes chickenpox and shingles can be spread from a person with active shingles to a person who has never had chickenpox or been vaccinated through direct contact with the rash. The person exposed would develop chickenpox, not shingles. The virus is not spread through sneezing, coughing or casual contact. A person with shingles can spread the disease when the rash is in the blister-phase. Once the rash has developed crusts, the person is no longer contagious.
Shingles (herpes zoster) facts. 1  Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash. 2  Shingles is caused by reactivation of the varicella zoster virus, the same virus that causes chickenpox. 3  Older adults and individuals with a weakened immune system are at greatest risk for developing shingles. 1 Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash. 2  Shingles is caused by reactivation of the varicella zoster virus, the same virus that causes chickenpox. 3  Older adults and individuals with a weakened immune system are at greatest risk for developing shingles. 4  Shingles symptoms and signs include. 5  one-sided stabbing pain, 6  tingling, ..
Shingles is not contagious (able to spread) in the sense that people who are exposed to a patient with shingles will not catch shingles.. Anyone who has already had chickenpox or has received the chickenpox vaccine, and is otherwise healthy, should be protected and at no risk when around a patient with shingles. 
Shingles is a disease that’s closely related to chickenpox. The herpes zoster virus, also called varicella-zoster (VZ), causes both chickenpox and shingles. Once you’ve had chickenpox, you’re infected with the herpes zoster virus. The virus stays in your body in an inactive state for the rest of your life. Shingles is not contagious in the traditional sense. For example, you can’t get shingles from someone with shingles coughing or sneezing on you. If you’ve had chickenpox, you already have the shingles virus. So even if a close family member has active shingles, the virus in your body won’t necessarily reactivate.
Shingles, also called herpes zoster or zoster, is a painful skin rash caused by the varicella-zoster virus, the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus remains inactive in the body. The person exposed would develop chickenpox, not shingles. The virus is not spread through sneezing, coughing or casual contact. A person with shingles can spread the disease when the rash is in the blister-phase. Once the rash has developed crusts, the person is no longer contagious.
Individuals who never have had chickenpox and have not received the vaccine for chickenpox are susceptible to shingles virus infection. Consequently, shingles disease is contagious by transmission of the varicella-zoster virus (VZV) to these individuals. However, the shingles rash is not contagious in that a rash from one individual is unable to spread to another individual. Nevertheless, the disease of shingles can pass the virus from the active rash blisters directly to another individual who can become infected with the varicella-zoster virus. Shingles is, in this manner, contagious. Moreover, because varicella-zoster virus infection is commonly contagious in the form of chickenpox, and this infection can eventually lead to shingles development in some patients, it is fair to say that shingles is indirectly contagious by the spread of chickenpox.