Braselton, Georgia. Braselton is a town in Barrow, Gwinnett, Hall, and Jackson Counties in Georgia, about 40 miles northeast of Atlanta. Braselton was named after the Braselton family that has lived in the area for some time. The town was bought from the Braselton Families by a partnership between the Ameritech Pension fund and actress Kim Basinger in 1989 for $20 million. Multiple hotels and motels are listed in the Braselton, GA area. Chateau Elan – Within the sweeping panorama of the north Georgia foothills, just 40 minutes north of Atlanta but a world away from the bustling City’s high rise palaces of concrete and steel is Chateau Elan.
Her recent roles include Eminem 's trailer trash mom in 8 Mile, and a grieving mother and unfaithful wife in The Door in the Floor. In 1989 she paid $20 million to buy the entire town of Braselton, Georgia, about 60 miles from Atlanta. Four years later, she was sued for backing out of a film she had agreed to star in, and was forced to sell Braselton for just $1 million. 
The Gwinnett and Barrow County portions of Braselton are part of the Atlanta – Sandy Springs – Marietta, GA, Metropolitan Statistical Area, and the Hall County portion is part of both the Atlanta and Gainesville, GA Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The town is named after Harrison Braselton, a poor dirt farmer who married Susan Hosch, the daughter of a rich plantation owner. Braselton built a home on 786 acres (318 ha) of land he purchased north of the Hosch Plantation. The land he purchased was later called Braselton.
The Town of Braselton has a rich heritage and the unique characteristic of being located not only in Jackson County but also spanning into three additional counties: Hall, Gwinnett, and Barrow. Our dynamic community is the home to the world class amenity, Chateau Elan Winery and Resort. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2013). Braselton is a town in Barrow, Gwinnett, Hall, and Jackson counties in the U.S. state of Georgia, about 40 miles (64 km) northeast of Atlanta. As of the 2010 census, the town had a population of 7,511, with an estimated population in 2012 of 7,875. The town is named after Harrison Braselton, a poor dirt farmer who married Susan Hosch, the daughter of a rich plantation owner. Braselton built a home on 786 acres (318 ha) of land he purchased north of the Hosch Plantation. The land he purchased was later called Braselton.
Braselton Journal; Actress Buys Town A Place on the Map. BRASELTON, Ga., March 29— Herbert Braselton, a 69-year-old member of the family that for 113 years has owned this town except for 200 acres or so, said today he was satisfied that the family had done the right thing by selling it. 
Welcome to Braselton, Georgia. The Town of Braselton has a rich heritage and the unique characteristic of being located not only in Jackson County but also spanning into three additional counties: Hall, Gwinnett, and Barrow. Our dynamic community is the home to the world class amenity, Chateau Elan Winery and Resort. READ MORE. The Town of Braselton has a rich heritage and the unique characteristic of being located not only in Jackson County but also spanning into three additional counties: Hall, Gwinnett, and Barrow.
News & Events. Northeast Georgia Medical Center (NGMC) Braselton brings exceptional healthcare directly to the Greater Braselton community. The 100-bed hospital is the state's first net-new hospital, meaning not a relocation or replacement, in almost 20 years. 