Overview. Bromelain is a mixture of enzymes found in pineapples (Ananas comosus) that digest protein (proteolytic). Pineapple has been used for centuries in Central and South America to treat indigestion and reduce inflammation. 
Some people use a product (Phlogenzym) for arthritis (osteoarthritis) that combines bromelain with trypsin (a protein) and rutin (a substance found in buckwheat). Bromelain used in this way seems to reduce pain and improve knee function in people with arthritis. More evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of bromelain for these uses. 1  Arthritis (osteoarthritis). 2  Arthritis (rheumatoid arthritis). 3  Knee pain. 4  Severe burns. 5  Inflammation. 6  Sinusitis. 7  Improving antibiotic absorption. 8  Hay fever. 9  Preventing cancer. 10  Shortening of labor. 11  Ulcerative colitis. 12  Other conditions.
When dealing with inflammatory conditions (such as eczema or allergies), there are several good reasons to consider products that combine bromelain, a natural anti-inflammatory derived from pineapples, and quercetin, a plant pigment (or flavonoid) prominent in apples and onions. HOW IT HELPS ALLERGIES. There are two good reasons to combine quercetin, a plant pigment that quells inflammation and has long been used for allergies and other inflammatory conditions, with the pineapple enzyme, bromelain.
Bromelain is a protein extract derived from the stems of pineapples, although it exists in all parts of the fresh plant and fruit. The extract has a history of folk medicine use. As a culinary ingredient, it may be used as a meat tenderizer. Along with papain, bromelain is one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing. Bromelain is sold in a powdered form, which is combined with a marinade, or directly sprinkled on the uncooked meat.
Bromelain extract is a mixture of protein-digesting (proteolytic) enzymes or proteases, and several other substances in smaller quantities. The proteolytic enzymes are sulfhydryl proteases; a free sulfhydryl group of a cysteine amino acid side chain is required for function. Along with papain, bromelain is one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing. Bromelain is sold in a powdered form, which is combined with a marinade, or directly sprinkled on the uncooked meat.
Bromelain is POSSIBLY SAFE for most people when taken in appropriate amounts. Bromelain may cause some side effects, such as diarrhea and stomach and intestinal discomfort. Bromelain may also cause allergic reactions, especially in people who have other allergies. If you have allergies, be sure to check with your healthcare provider before taking bromelain. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of bromelain during pregnancy and breast-feeding. More evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of bromelain for these uses. 1  Arthritis (osteoarthritis). 2  Arthritis (rheumatoid arthritis). 3  Knee pain. 4  Severe burns. 5  Inflammation. 6  Sinusitis. 7  Improving antibiotic absorption. 8  Hay fever. 9  Preventing cancer. 10  Shortening of labor. 11  Ulcerative colitis. 12  Other conditions.
Bromelain is one of the most popular supplements in European countries such as Germany, where it is commonly used for sinus discomfort. Some research suggests that bromelain was effective at reducing discomfort and swelling. Share. Bromelain is a protein-digesting (proteolytic) enzyme complex found in the fruit and, in higher concentrations, in the stem of the pineapple (Ananas comosus). It is able to hydrolyze or break down a wide variety of protein types in a range of both acid and alkaline environments
Bromelain is the name of a group of powerful protein-digesting, or proteolytic, enzymes that are found in the pineapple plant (Ananas comosus). Bromelain is a natural anti-inflammatory that comes from pineapple, so you shouldn’t use bromelain if you’re allergic to that fruit. Bromelain blocks the production of compounds that can cause swelling and pain. HOW IT HELPS BACK PAIN. I often suggest that patients keep a bottle of bromelain in a first aid kit.
Bromelain seems to cause the body to produce substances that fight pain and swelling (inflammation). Bromelain also contains chemicals that interfere with the growth of tumor cells and slow blood clotting. More evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of bromelain for these uses. 1  Arthritis (osteoarthritis). 2  Arthritis (rheumatoid arthritis). 3  Knee pain. 4  Severe burns. 5  Inflammation. 6  Sinusitis. 7  Improving antibiotic absorption. 8  Hay fever. 9  Preventing cancer. 10  Shortening of labor. 11  Ulcerative colitis. 12  Other conditions.