Weighing yourself regularly when you are trying to lose weight may help you lose more, but how you weigh -- and how often -- is important. Sales of soda are tanking, and beverage companies are hoping bottled water -- and hundreds of other products -- will fill the gap.
Serving Size: 1 slice (5.8oz), Calories: 349, Fat: 16g, Carbs: 34.9g, Protein: 19g. Pepperoni (Marco's Pizza Medium). Serving Size: 1 slice, Calories: 230, Fat: 9g, Carbs: 24g, Protein: 11g. Small Hawaiian Chicken (Marco's Pizza). Serving Size: 1 slice, Calories: 180, Fat: 6g, Carbs: 18g, Protein: 10g. 
The Future Looks Grim for Big Soda. Sales of soda are tanking, and beverage companies are hoping bottled water -- and hundreds of other products -- will fill the gap. The latest in the sugar wars
How Many Calories in Marco's thin crust pepperoni pizza, 1 slice of a large. 
All trademarks, copyright and other forms of intellectual property are property of their respective owners. blog|faq|terms|privacy|find buddies|food list|brand list|report abuse|contact|other sites|platform|professional. © 2015 FatSecret. All rights reserved. 
*Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs. 
The Goods. Eating right can be tricky in today´s fast-paced world. That´s why it´s important to enjoy as many healthy food options, made with wholesome ingredients, as possible. Pizza Pizza prides itself in bringing you the best toppings possible, so that making healthy choices for you and your family is just a bit easier. 1  The Goods. 
Disclaimer. Please note that these nutrition values are estimated based on our standard serving portions. As food servings may have a slight variance each time you visit, please expect these values to be with in 10% +/- of your actual meal. If you have any questions about our nutrition calculator, please contact Nutritionix. Marco's Pizza understands the importance of providing complete and accurate nutrition information to our customers. Because every customer uses nutrition information differently, we provide three ways to view our nutrition information.
Disclaimer. Please note that these nutrition values are estimated based on our standard serving portions. As food servings may have a slight variance each time you visit, please expect these values to be with in 10% +/- of your actual meal. If you have any questions about our nutrition calculator, please contact Nutritionix.