Yellow skin is a serious symptom needing prompt professional diagnosis, because it is most commonly caused by jaundice with various possible underlying causes of jaundice including severe liver conditions. It is important to check for yellow eyes in addition to yellow skin. Jaundice-see also various causes of jaundice. 2  Carotenemia-causes more orange skin than yellow skin. 3  Beta-carotene dietary excess-usually more orange skin than yellow skin. 4  Hypothyrodism. 5  Pernicious anemia. 6  Uremia-causing a dry yellow-brown skin. 7  Xanthomata-small yellow fat deposits under the skin.
The condition of yellow skin, sclera, and mucous membranes is known as jaundice or sometimes as icterus. It is caused by greater than normal amounts of bilirubin in the blood. Carotenemia can also cause yellow skin. The answer is Jaundice. There are many different forms of this, it causes the skin and eyes to have a yellowish tint to them. Jaundice works from the head down, if you feel you have this seek medical attention right away this is a very serious matter. Jaundice or icterus.
Symptoms of Jaundice. Yellow-tinted skin and eyes characterize jaundice. In more severe cases, the whites of your eyes may turn brown or orang-colored. You may also have dark urine and pale stools.ome people misdiagnose themselves when they experience yellow skin. According to the Merck Manuals Consumer Version, patients who have jaundice usually have both yellow-colored skin and eyes. If you only have yellow skin, it’s more likely due to having too much beta-carotene in your system.
Jaundice is a yellow color in the skin, mucus membranes, or eyes. The yellow pigment is from bilirubin, a byproduct of old red blood cells. Jaundice is also a symptom of other disorders. This article is about jaundice in children and adults.
It is caused by greater than normal amounts of bilirubin in the blood. … Carotenemia can also cause yellow skin.   The answer is Jaundice. There are many different forms of this, it causes the skin and eyes to have a yellowish tint to them. Jaundice works from the head down, if you feel you have this seek medical attention right away this is a very serious matter. Jaundice or icterus. Jaundice is a condition in which the liver is not removing enough yellow colored bilirubin from the body. This results in a yellowing of skin, eyes and mucous membranes.   Jaundice jaundice jaundice.5 people found this useful.
Synonyms: xanthochromia, xanthoderma2. The definition information for yellow skin is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students. 
1 : A condition characterized by yellowish firm nodules in the skin that frequently are a sign of an underlying disease such as diabetes or a disorder of fats (lipid disorder or hyperlipidemia). 2  The word xanthoma is made up of xanth- from the Greek roots xanthos (yellow) and oma (swelling) = a yellow swelling.anth- (prefix): A colorful prefix relating to a yellow color. Xanth- is related to the word xanthic which has its roots in the Greek word xanthos which means yellow.
High yellow, occasionally simply yellow (dialect: yaller, yeller), is a term for persons classified as black who also have a high proportion of white ancestry. It is a reference to the golden yellow skin tone of some mixed-race people. The term was in common use in the United States at the end of the 19th century and the early decades of the 20th century.
Jaundice is the medical term that describes yellowing of the skin and eyes. This condition forms when there is too much bilirubin in your system. Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is formed by the breakdown of dead red blood cells in the liver. Some people misdiagnose themselves when they experience yellow skin. According to the Merck Manuals Consumer Version, patients who have jaundice usually have both yellow-colored skin and eyes. If you only have yellow skin, it’s more likely due to having too much beta-carotene in your system. Beta-carotene is an antioxidant found in carrots and pumpkins. An excess of this antioxidant is not a cause of jaundice