Human body tissue makes up organs and other body parts. There are four main types of tissue: muscle, epithelial, connective and nervous. Each is made of specialized cells that are grouped together according to structure and function. Muscle is found throughout the body and even includes organs such as the heart. Definition of Human Body Tissue. If you were to try to explain to someone what your body is made of, you might say two arms, two legs, feet and hands, a head and a torso. Or, you may go to the other extreme and say that you are made up of billions of cells. Both answers would be correc
The entire surface of the plant consists of a single layer of cells called epidermis or surface tissue. The entire surface of the plant has this outer layer of epidermis. Hence it is also called surface tissue. Most of the epidermal cells are relatively flat. Functions of epithelial tissue: 1  the cells of the body surface form the outer layer of skin. 2  inside the body, epithelial cells form the lining of the mouth & alimentary canal & protect these organs. 3  epithelial tissues help in absorption of water & nutrients.
In biology, tissue is a cellular organizational level intermediate between cells and a complete organ. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. Functions of epithelial tissue: 1  the cells of the body surface form the outer layer of skin. 2  inside the body, epithelial cells form the lining of the mouth & alimentary canal & protect these organs. 3  epithelial tissues help in absorption of water & nutrients.
Human body tissue consists of groups of cells with a similar structure working together for a specific function. There are four main types of tissue in a body. Learn more about them and take a short quiz at the end. Definition of Human Body Tissue. If you were to try to explain to someone what your body is made of, you might say two arms, two legs, feet and hands, a head and a torso. Or, you may go to the other extreme and say that you are made up of billions of cells. Both answers would be correct
The fundamental types of tissues in animals are epithelial, nerve, connective, muscle, and vascular tissues whereas in plants, they are the meristematic (apical meristem and cambium), protective (epidermis and cork), fundamental (parenchyma, collenchyma and sclerenchyma) and vascular (xylem and phloem) tissues. Tissues that work in unison to carry out a specific set of functions form an organ. Word origin: Middle English tissu, a rich kind of cloth, from Old French, from past participle of tistre, to weave, from Latin texere.
Skeletal muscles are usually attached to bone by tendons composed of connective tissue. This connective tissue also ensheaths the entire muscle & is called epimysium. Skeletal muscles consist of numerous subunits or bundles called fasicles (or fascicles). The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction.
A meristem is the tissue in most plants containing undifferentiated cells (meristematic cells), found in zones of the plant where growth can take place. Meristematic cells give rise to various organs of the plant and keep the plant growing. In general, differentiated plant cells cannot divide or produce cells of a different type. Therefore, cell division in the meristem is required to provide new cells for expansion and differentiation of tissues and initiation of new organs, providing the basic structure of the plant body.
cicatricial tissue the dense fibrous tissue forming a cicatrix, derived directly from granulation tissue; called also scar tissue. connective tissue the tissue that binds together and is the support of the various structures of the body; see also connective tissue. elastic tissue connective tissue made up of yellow elastic fibers, frequently massed into sheets. endothelial tissue peculiar connective tissue lining serous and lymph spaces. tissue typing identification of tissue types for purposes of predicting acceptance or rejection of grafts and transplants. The process and purposes of tissue typing are essentially the same as for blood typing. The major difference lies in the kinds of antigens being evaluated.