The autonomic nervous system has two branches: the sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system is often considered the  fight or flight  system, while the parasympathetic nervous system is often considered the rest and digest or feed and breed system. The autonomic nervous system is divided into the sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic division emerges from the spinal cord in the thoracic and lumbar areas, terminating around L2-3.
General sympathetic activation occurs in cases of stress, to trigger what is called the fight or flight response or sympathico-adrenal response. 
Both branches of the autonomic nervous system, sympathetic and parasympathetic, exert control of lung function. Multiple sites and tissues are involved in lung function: 
The parasympathetic nervous system (usually abbreviated PSNS, not PNS, to avoid confusion with the peripheral nervous system [PNS]) is one of the two divisions of the autonomic nervous system, the other being the sympathetic nervous system. The parasympathetic division functions with actions that do not require immediate reaction. A useful mnemonic to summarize the functions of the parasympathetic nervous system is SLUDD (salivation, lacrimation, urination, digestion and defecation).
It is the balance between the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system that keeps our automated body functions working properly. The autonomic nervous system receptors act as on/off buttons that control the various sympathetic and parasympathetic effects in the body. When these buttons are turned on or off, things happen in your body. 
The parasympathetic nervous system (PNS) controls homeostasis and the body at rest and is responsible for the body's rest and digest function. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) controls the body's responses to a perceived threat and is responsible for the fight or flight response. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is one of two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Its general action is to mobilize the body's fight-or-
The parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Its general function is to control homeostasis and the body's rest-and-digest response. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is one of two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Its general action is to mobilize the body's fight-or-flight response. Function. Control the body's response while at rest
(January 2009). The sympathetic nervous system is one of the two main divisions of the autonomic nervous system, the other being the parasympathetic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system functions to regulate the body's unconscious actions. The sympathetic nervous system's primary process is to stimulate the body's fight-or-flight response. It is, however, constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis
In this lesson, you'll learn about two subdivisions of the autonomic nervous system-the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. Watch as a hiker, Phil, runs away from a terrifying bear and see how these systems react to the impending danger! Together, the epinephrine and norepinephrine secreted by the adrenal glands have the same basic effects as the nerves of the sympathetic nervous system by increasing heart rate, increasing bronchiole dilation, and increasing glucose release from the liver. In addition, norepinephrine is also known to increase alertness.