Older Drivers. Car rental agencies in the United States do not typically impose a maximum age limit on rentals. In some countries, however, a maximum age limit is common. Age limits vary between rental agencies and from country to country, but often fall between age 75 and 80. If you are over age 70, check with the rental agency before finalizing your reservation. The legal age of majority in every state is 18. Younger travelers are not legally able to sign a contract, which would put the car rental agency at risk if the renter decided not to pay. Additionally, the rental agency could be liable if a younger renter was injured in an accident or injured someone else.
Norway rental car age requirements restrict drivers under 19 from renting a car. There is no maximum age limit, but renters between 19 and 25 years old will incur an additional fee of 125 - 160 NOK per day. Belgium car rental age restrictions can vary, with some minimums as low as 19 and others as high as 23. There are no maximum limits, but the fees for a driver under 25 in Belgium can vary, costing anywhere from €15 - €30 per day.
Age Requirements. The minimum age to rent an Enterprise car is 21 at most locations. Drivers under the age of 25 must pay a higher rental rate and select vehicles are unavailable to those under age 25. 
Switzerland rental car age requirements will incur a fee of 15 - 20 CHF per day for drivers under 24. There are no maximum age limits, but the minimum allowed age is typically 19 and sometimes 21, depending on the supplier. Belgium car rental age restrictions can vary, with some minimums as low as 19 and others as high as 23. There are no maximum limits, but the fees for a driver under 25 in Belgium can vary, costing anywhere from €15 - €30 per day.
-- Czech Republic, Greece, Poland, and Slovakia: Some rental agencies impose a maximum age of 70. -- United Kingdom: Some rental agencies apply an extra fee for travelers age 70 or over; some rental agencies apply a maximum age limit of 69 on some car classes. Rental agencies in Ireland (Republic) nominally bar anyone over 75 from renting a car and agencies in Romania bar anyone over 70. In several countries, however, some suppliers impose maximum age limits to rentals, generally, or to rentals of some models of cars: -- Denmark: Some rental agencies impose a maximum age of 80. -- Slovenia: Some rental agencies impose a maximum age limit of 73, and renters ages 70 to 73 may face surcharges.
18 / None. The rental car age limit in Italy is typically a minimum of 18, but some suppliers will not rent to anyone under 21. There are no maximum age limits but any drivers under 24 will usually have to pay around an additional €20 per day. Belgium car rental age restrictions can vary, with some minimums as low as 19 and others as high as 23. There are no maximum limits, but the fees for a driver under 25 in Belgium can vary, costing anywhere from €15 - €30 per day.
When checking the maximum age to rent a car, you should can check company websites' location specific policies. You'll usually see links to rental conditions, local policy, terms of rental, important info or some such term during the rate quote/reservation process which should list any restrictions. Australia. Tasmania-drivers 75 years and over must present a medical certificate at the time of pickup. All other Hertz locations in Australia-there is no set maximum age to rent a car, but, a medical certificate is recommended from drivers over 75.
The rules about rental cars if you are above a certain age haven’t become more rigid, but with more seniors traveling the frequency of problems has increased. Most people know there is a minimum age for rental cars, but few people realize that rental cars also have an upper age limit. Insurance companies mandate the maximum age for car rental, and they usually set the cutoff age at 70 or 75. If an older customer has an accident, the company's insurance carrier will increase rates across the board, unless the company agrees to refuse service to any customer above a certain age.
Underage fee   Most rental car companies charge underage fees to renters under 25 years of age. The average underage fee is around $25 a day extra. In the state of New York the underage fee is usually considerably higher.   Note: Minimum age requirements may be different for additional drivers. The minimum age to rent a car varies with different companies. Most rental companies will require you to be 25 with a credit card. However, some places like New York and Michi … gan have lowered the minimum age requirement to 18 if they meet the valid state driving requirements.
If you are age 21-24 then you can save money on the young drivers surcharge. Doing this, you can have up to 3 drivers age 21-24 plus additional drivers age 25 and over (up to a total of 4 drivers maximum). There will then be no additional surcharges for the young drivers on collection of the car.