The VAC Procedure. Vacuum-assisted closure (also called vacuum therapy, vacuum sealing or topical negative pressure therapy) is a simple technique where a piece of foam with an open-cell structure is inserted into the wound, and a wound drain with lateral perforations is laid atop it. The application of negative pressure in vacuum-assisted closure removes edema fluid from the wound through suction. This results in increased blood flow to the wound (by causing the blood vessels to dilate) and greater cell proliferation.
Vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) is a sophisticated development of a standard surgical procedure—the use of vacuum-assisted drainage to remove blood or serous fluid from a wound or operation site. The application of negative pressure in vacuum-assisted closure removes edema fluid from the wound through suction. This results in increased blood flow to the wound (by causing the blood vessels to dilate) and greater cell proliferation.
Application of a vacuum pump using a foam dressing to a wound. Negative-pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is a therapeutic technique using a vacuum dressing to promote healing in acute or chronic wounds and enhance healing of first and second degree burns. General technique for NPWT is as follows: a dressing or filler material is fitted to the contours of a wound (which is covered with a non-adherent dressing film) and the overlying foam is then sealed with a transparent film. A drainage tube is connected to the dressing through an opening of the
Negative pressure wound therapy uses vacuum therapy in the form of a dressing applied to an acute or chronic wound. The vacuum pressure is controlled at a sub-atmospheric pressure and may be intermittent or constant. Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is becoming more and more common in clinical practice as the body of evidence supporting its use grows. The KCI wound vac is perhaps the best known of the NPWT devices currently available for commercial use.
Negative pressure wound therapy is a medical procedure in which a vacuum dressing is used to enhance and promote wound healing in acute, chronic and burn wounds. The therapy involves using a sealed wound dressing attached to a pump to create a negative pressure environment in the wound. The pump that creates the negative pressure is small and portable. Many wounds undergoing negative pressure wound therapy can be treated at home with a visiting home health care provider.
Introduction. Vacuum assisted closure (also called vacuum therapy, vacuum sealing or topical negative pressure therapy) is a sophisticated development of a standard surgical procedure, the use of vacuum assisted drainage to remove blood or serous fluid from a wound or operation site. In essence the technique is very simple. The average duration of vacuum therapy in the treatment of the 313 patients with infected wounds was 16.7 days with an average of 3.1 dressing changes.
NPWT promotes wound healing by applying a vacuum through a special sealed dressing. The continued vacuum draws out fluid from the wound and increases blood flow to the area. The vacuum may be applied continuously or intermittently, depending on the type of wound being treated and the clinical objectives. General technique for NPWT is as follows: a dressing or filler material is fitted to the contours of a wound (which is covered with a non-adherent dressing film) and the overlying foam is then sealed with a transparent film. A drainage tube is connected to the dressing through an opening of the
Applying continued vacuum helps to increase blood flow to the area and draw out excess fluid from the wound. Depending on the wound type or location, the vacuum can either be applied continuously or intermittently. Negative pressure wound therapy can be used for a few days to several months at a time. The pump that creates the negative pressure is small and portable. Many wounds undergoing negative pressure wound therapy can be treated at home with a visiting home health care provider.
You need to have the pump on for the treatment to work. How long you need to use the VAC dressing depends on:  The type and size of your wound  Your body's ability to heal Often the VAC dressing is used to heal a wound to the point where it can be closed in surgery, or before a skin flap or graft is done. Page 2 The VAC pump needs to be on for at least 22 hours each day to get the best results from the treatment. You can turn the pump off for going to the bathroom or during your shower. Change your dressing as your doctor orders.
The Procedure. The dressing used for negative pressure wound therapy starts with sterile open-cell foam that is cut to size and packed into the wound. This foam acts as a sort of filter to keep any large particles (such as blood clots or dead, sloughed off tissue) from clogging the vacuum system. The pump that creates the negative pressure is small and portable. Many wounds undergoing negative pressure wound therapy can be treated at home with a visiting home health care provider.