The muscles acting on the foot can be divided into two distinct groups; extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. 1  The extrinsic muscles arise from the anterior, posterior and lateral compartments of the leg. 2  They are mainly responsible for actions such as eversion, inversion, plantarflexion and dorsiflexion of the foot. 1 The extrinsic muscles arise from the anterior, posterior and lateral compartments of the leg. 2  They are mainly responsible for actions such as eversion, inversion, plantarflexion and dorsiflexion of the foot.
From the large, strong muscles of the buttocks and legs to the tiny, fine muscles of the feet and toes, these muscles can exert tremendous power while constantly making small adjustments for balance – whether the body is at rest or in motion. Shin muscles, such as the tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus, dorsiflex the foot and extend the toes. The muscles of the calf also work subtly to stabilize the ankle joint and foot and to maintain the body’s balance.
The muscles in our feet are susceptible to injuries, disorders and various problems such as strains. Many times, an injured muscle in the foot will bruise and cause pain when walking. Various conditions can also make it difficult to move around. Like the muscles in the rest of the body, it’s important to keep the muscles in the feet strong.
However, many muscles that power the foot’s movement originate as high up as the back of the knee. Some important muscles that affect the foot include: 1  Soleus: This muscle extends from the back of the knee to the heel. 2  It is pivotal in walking and standing. 3  Gastrocnemius (calf muscle) : One of the large muscles of the leg, it connects to the heel. 4  It flexes and extends the foot, ankle, and knee. The muscles are attached to bone by fibrous tendons. In terms of mobility, the Achilles tendon is one of the most important structures in the leg and foot. This tendon in the back of the calf and ankle connects the plantaris, calf, and soleus muscles to the heel bone.
Your tarsal bones are connected to the front and back of your foot by muscles and the arch ligament (the plantar fascia). They act as shock absorbers when we’re walking or running. The front of your foot (forefoot) is made up of your toe bones (phalanges), which are connected to five long bones (metatarsals) by joints. Many common problems can occur in this complicated area. The foot is usually separated into three different parts: The back of your foot (hindfoot) is made up of your heel bone (calcaneus) and your ankle (talus). They’re joined together by your subtalar joint, which allows your foot to move from side to side. Your ankle bone is joined to your leg bones (tibia and fibula) at your ankle joint, which acts like a hinge. This allows your foot to bend up and down. The middle of your foot (midfoot) is made up of five tarsal bone
The muscles in your lower leg are attached to bones in your feet by tendons, and they control movement that allows us to stand, walk, go on tiptoes and jump. These muscles move your toes and control the position of your foot as it hits the ground, allowing it to become flexible and cushioning the impact. Many common problems can occur in this complicated area. The foot is usually separated into three different parts: The back of your foot (hindfoot) is made up of your heel bone (calcaneus) and your ankle (talus). They’re joined together by your subtalar joint, which allows your foot to move from side to side. Your ankle bone is joined to your leg bones (tibia and fibula) at your ankle joint, which acts like a hinge. This allows your foot to bend up and down. The middle of your foot (midfoot) is made up of five tarsal bones
There are 20 muscles in the foot that give the foot its shape by holding the bones in position and expand and contract to impart movement. The main muscles of the foot are: 1  the anterior tibial, which enables the foot to move upward; 2  the posterior tibial, which supports the arch; 3  the peroneal tibial, which controls movement on the outside of the ankle; 4  the extensors, which help the ankle raise the toes to initiate the act of stepping forward; and. There are elastic tissues (tendons) in the foot that connect the muscles to the bones and joints. The largest and strongest tendon of the foot is the Achilles tendon, which extends from the calf muscle to the heel.