Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, often known as MCAD deficiency or MCADD is a disorder of fatty acid oxidation that impairs the body's ability to break down medium-chain fatty acids into acetyl-CoA. MCADD is most prevalent in individuals of Northern European Caucasian descent, with an incidence of 1:4000 to 1:17,000 depending on the population. Treatment of MCADD is mainly preventative, by avoiding fasting and other situations where the body relies on fatty acid oxidation to supply energy.
Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MCADD) is a rare genetic condition where a person has problems breaking down fatty acids for energy. This means that if they go for long periods without eating, they can experience a range of unpleasant symptoms, such as: 1  feeling very tired and sluggish. 2  being sick. If your child experiences any symptoms of MCADD, there are many high-glucose drinks that can be used to boost blood sugar levels. If your child is not drinking, or does not improve quickly, hospital treated will be needed. Read more about the treatment of medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting). This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, which is required to break down (metabolize) a group of fats called medium-chain fatty acids.
Mutations in the ACADM gene cause MCAD deficiency. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, which is required to break down (metabolize) a group of fats called medium-chain fatty acids. These fatty acids are found in foods and the body's fat tissues
MCAD deficiency. Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MCAD deficiency) is a rare, inherited disease where the body is unable to break down fat properly. MCAD deficiency can cause lethargy and a lack of energy and can lead to serious complications such as seizures, coma and even death
1. MCADD, also known as Medium Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency, is the most common fatty acid oxidation disorder (FAOD). It is a defect in one of the enzymes responsible for converting fats to fuel that can be used by the body
MCADD stands for medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. It is one type of fatty acid oxidation disorder. People with this type of disorder have problems breaking down fat into energy for the body. The enzyme medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase is either missing or not working properly. This enzyme’s job is to break down certain fats in the food we eat into energy.