Business & Industry Profile Examples. You can find many types of profiles on an individual business or entire industry sector. Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. There are many ways to profile an individual business or an entire industry sector. Although profiles often have a general financial and investment focus, others concentrate on a specific financial aspect, such as advertising, or a specific market area, such as technology
Split and merge into it. Answer by Murasaki carol. Confidence votes 38. what is the difference between a business and an industry. I couldn't explain it clearly, but I could tell the general information about what is 'business' and 'industry''. Hope this would help
Show more usage examples... When looking for land to build your company you must make sure you do and Industry Analysis, to be sure this is the kind of company you would like to enter into.. make sure this is the type of work you can build a company in.. Definition. A market assessment tool designed to provide a business with an idea of the complexity of a particular industry. Industry analysis involves reviewing the economic, political and market factors that influence the way the industry develops.
Market Trends. Often the term business trend is synonymous with trends of financial markets such as the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ. These trends may also relate to the performance of market indicators such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average or the Standard and Poor's 500 indices. Trends involve tracking historical data to help predict the future. chart background image by Stasys Eidiejus from Fotolia.com. From a technical perspective, trends involve looking at the statistical analysis of historical data over a selected time frame and charting the progression.
business-a rightful concern or responsibility; it's none of your business; mind your own business. headache, worry, vexation, concern-something or someone that causes anxiety; a source of unhappiness; New York traffic is a constant concern; it's a major worry. Cindy works in the music business. My brother is in the restaurant business. 2. used as a countable noun. A business is a company, shop, or organization that makes and sells goods or provides a service. He set up a small travel business
DEFINITION of 'Industry'. A classification that refers to a group of companies that are related in terms of their primary business activities. In modern economies, there are dozens of different industry classifications, which are typically grouped into larger categories called sectors. 
Definitions (2). 1.The manufacturing or technically productive enterprises in a particular field, country, region, or economy viewed collectively, or one of these individually. A single industry is often named after its principal product; for example, the auto industry. 