The sensory receptors involved in taste and smell contain receptor molecules that bind to specific chemicals. Odor receptors in olfactory receptor neurons, for example, are activated by interacting with molecular structures on the odor molecule. Sensory receptors respond to specific stimulus modalities. The stimulus modality to which a sensory receptor responds is determined by the sensory receptor's adequate stimulus.
The sensory nervous system is a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information. A sensory system consists of sensory receptors, neural pathways, and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception. Certain receptors are sensitive to certain types of stimuli (for example, different mechanoreceptors respond best to different kinds of touch stimuli, like sharp or blunt objects). Receptors send impulses in certain patterns to send information about the intensity of a stimulus (for example, how loud a sound is).
In a sensory system, a sensory receptor is a sensory nerve ending that responds to a stimulus in the internal or external environment of an organism. In response to stimuli, the sensory receptor initiates sensory transduction by creating graded potentials or action potentials in the same cell or in an adjacent one. Sensory receptors respond to specific stimulus modalities. The stimulus modality to which a sensory receptor responds is determined by the sensory receptor's adequate stimulus.
Weegy: Chemoreceptor is responsible for smell and taste. User: 9. When you move your fingers to type a text message, you are using motor neurons of the (1 point) somatic nervous system. sensory nervous system. autonomic nervous system. central nervous system. For example, in insects, olfactory sensilla are present on their antennae.[2] Examples of direct chemoreceptors include: Taste buds in the gustatory system: The primary use of gustation as a type of chemoreception is for the detection of tasteants.
8. Which type of sensory receptor is responsible for smell and taste? (1 point) photoreceptor thermoreceptor mechanoreceptor chemoreceptor. Weegy: Chemoreceptor is responsible for smell and taste. (More). Question. Expert Answered. 
The chemoreceptors of taste and smell are closely related; in fact one receptor type, the Lewis acid receptor is common to both the taste (gustatory) and smell (olfactory) modalities. 
Sensory Receptors. Stimuli in the environment activate specialized receptor cells in the peripheral nervous system. Different types of stimuli are sensed by different types of receptor cells. Receptor cells can be classified into types on the basis of three different criteria: cell type, position, and function. Receptors can be classified structurally on the basis of cell type and their position in relation to stimuli they sense. Receptor cells can be further categorized on the basis of the type of stimuli they transduce. Chemical stimuli can be interpreted by a chemoreceptor that interprets chemical stimuli, such as an object’s taste or smell. Osmoreceptors respond to solute concentrations of body fluids.
Like taste, the sense of smell, or olfaction, is also responsive to chemical stimuli. The olfactory receptor neurons are located in a small region within the superior nasal cavity ([link]). This region is referred to as the olfactory epithelium and contains bipolar sensory neurons. Receptor cells can be further categorized on the basis of the type of stimuli they transduce. Chemical stimuli can be interpreted by a chemoreceptor that interprets chemical stimuli, such as an object’s taste or smell. Osmoreceptors respond to solute concentrations of body fluids.
8. Which type of sensory receptor is responsible for smell and taste? (1 point) photoreceptor thermoreceptor mechanoreceptor chemoreceptor. Weegy: Chemoreceptor is responsible for smell and taste. (More). For example, in insects, olfactory sensilla are present on their antennae.[2] Examples of direct chemoreceptors include: Taste buds in the gustatory system: The primary use of gustation as a type of chemoreception is for the detection of tasteants.
A stimulus modality (sensory modality) is a type of physical phenomenon that can be sensed. Examples are temperature, taste, sound, and pressure. The type of sensory receptor activated by a stimulus plays the primary role in coding the stimulus modality. Certain receptors are sensitive to certain types of stimuli (for example, different mechanoreceptors respond best to different kinds of touch stimuli, like sharp or blunt objects). Receptors send impulses in certain patterns to send information about the intensity of a stimulus (for example, how loud a sound is).