In summary, skeletal muscles are attached to bones on each end by tendons. The origin is the fixed attachment, while the insertion moves with contraction. The action, or particular movement of a muscle, can be described relative to the joint or the body part moved. Groups of muscles are involved in most movements and names are used to describe the role of each muscle involved. The origin is the attachment site that doesn't move during contraction, while the insertion is the attachment site that does move when the muscle contracts. The insertion is usually distal, or further away, while the origin is proximal, or closer to the body, relative to the insertion.
(3) That which acts as the source or that which from where something is derived. (4) (anatomy) The point of attachment, as the end of the muscle (when contracted). Supplement. Word origin: L orīgin- (s. of orīgō) beginning, source, lineage. Synonyms: 1  commencement. 2  rise. 3  source. 4  derivation. 
1. (Anatomy) the science concerned with the physical structure of animals and plants. 2. (Anatomy) the physical structure of an animal or plant or any of its parts. 3. (Anatomy) a book or treatise on this subject. 4. (Anatomy) dissection of an animal or plant. 5. any detailed analysis: the anatomy of a crime. the branch of anatomy that studies the viscera. syndesmography. an anatomical treatise on or description of the joints and ligaments of the body. syndesmology. 1. the anatomy of the
Anatomy is the branch of biology concerned with the study of the structure of organisms and their parts. In some of its facets, anatomy is related to embryology and comparative anatomy, which itself is closely related to evolutionary biology and phylogeny. 
Origin. Late Middle English: from Old French anatomie or late Latin anatomia, from Greek, from ana- 'up' + tomia 'cutting' (from temnein 'to cut'). More. At first anatomy was not just the study of the structure of the human body, it was specifically the practice of cutting up human bodies to learn about them. The word came into English from Greek anatomia, from ana - ‘up’ and tomia ‘cutting’
Full Definition of ANATOMY. 1. : a branch of morphology that deals with the structure of organisms. 2. : a treatise on anatomical science or art. 3. : the art of separating the parts of an organism in order to ascertain their position, relations, structure, and function: dissection. 4. obsolete: a body dissected or to be dissected. Medical Definition of ANATOMY. 1. : a branch of morphology that deals with the structure of organisms—compare physiology 1. 2. : a treatise on anatomic science or art.
noun. The definition of anatomy is the branch of science that deals with the structure of plants and animals. The study of the structure of the human leg is an example of a study in the field of anatomy. — prosectorial, adj. splanchnology the branch of anatomy that studies the viscera. syndesmography an anatomical treatise on or description of the joints and ligaments of the body. syndesmology 1. the anatomy of the
Anatomy. Definition. noun. (1) The science concerned with the shape, structure and the relationship of parts of organisms. (2) The bodily structure of an organism or of any of its parts. Supplement. Anatomy is the branch of biology that focuses on the structure of living things. It includes human anatomy, zootomy and phytotomy. It is subdivided into gross anatomy (or macroscopic anatomy) and microscopic anatomy. Word origin: from Late Latin anatomia, from Greek anatomē, (dissection).
2. a person who performs autopsies. — prosectorial, adj. splanchnology the branch of anatomy that studies the viscera. syndesmography an anatomical treatise on or description of the joints and ligaments of the body. syndesmology 1. the anatomy of the ligaments of the body. 2. the science or study of ligament