Treatment of proximal femur fractures is discussed in further detail the article Fractures, Hip. Intramedullary nailing (see image below) is the treatment of choice for the majority of femoral shaft fractures occurring in adults. Nailing can be preformed in an antegrade or retrograde fashion. 
An intramedullary rod, also known as an intramedullary nail (IM nail) or inter-locking nail or Kuentscher küntscher (nail without proximal or distal), fixation is a metal rod forced into the medullary cavity of a. BONE im nails have long been used to treat fractures of long bones of the. body An intramedullary rod, also known as an intramedullary nail (IM nail) or inter-locking nail or Kuentscher küntscher (nail without proximal or distal), fixation is a metal rod forced into the medullary cavity of a. bone
To report outcomes of 87 consecutive patients treated with a proximal femoral nail (PFN) for trochanteric femoral fractures. Methods. 17 men and 70 women aged 58 to 95 (mean, 85) years with trochanteric femoral fractures underwent PFN fixation using an intramedullary nail, a lag screw, and a hip pin. Our results therefore suggest that a PFN is useful for the treatment of all types of trochanteric femoral fractures. REFERENCES 1. Bridle SH, Patel AD, Bircher M, Calvert PT. Fixation of intertrochanteric fractures of the femur. A randomised prospective comparison of the gamma nail and the dynamic hip screw.
The anatomic site of this type of hip fracture is the proximal or upper part of the femur or thigh bone. The proximal femur consists of the femoral head, the femoral neck, and the trochanteric region (including the greater and lesser trochanters). The other two types of hip fractures are fractures of the femoral neck, which are proximal or cephalad to trochanteric fractures, and subtrochanteric fractures, which are distal to or below the trochanters.
The TFN-ADVANCED™ Proximal Femoral Nailing System comprises a variety of implants and instruments to accommodate a range of hip fracture treatment procedures. For further information on TFNA or other products, please contact your local DePuy Synthes Trauma Sales Consultant. OUTCOME BASED DESIGN. 
19 DePuy Synthes TFNA – Proximal Femoral Nailing System Surgical Technique 4 Determine nail length(for long nails 260 mm–480 mm)Instrument 03.037.006 Radiographic RulerMove the image intensiﬁ er to the distal femur, place the proximal end of the radiographic ruler at the skin mark, and take an AP image. 14 DePuy Synthes TFNA – Proximal Femoral Nailing System Surgical Technique Alternative techniqueInstruments 03.037.008 Awl B 8/4.7 mm, curved, cannulated or03.037.007 Awl B 8/4.7 mm, straight, cannulatedThe entry point can also be determined by using the awl.
Proximal Femoral Nail Antirotation Technique Guide Synthes 39. 40 Synthes PFNA. Proximal Femoral Nail Antirotation Technique Guide Distal Locking for PFNA Short (Length 170 mm –240 mm) 1 Choose aiming arm for distal locking Distal locking of PFNA short is performed through the aimingarm (see steps 2 and 3). 
4–6 The proximal femoral nail (PFN) has an additional anti-rotational screw (hip pin) placed in the femoral neck to avoid rotation of the cervicocephalic fragments during weight bearing. 7,8 We report outcomes of 87 consecutive patients treated with a PFN for trochanteric femoral fractures. Our results therefore suggest that a PFN is useful for the treatment of all types of trochanteric femoral fractures. REFERENCES 1. Bridle SH, Patel AD, Bircher M, Calvert PT. Fixation of intertrochanteric fractures of the femur. A randomised prospective comparison of the gamma nail and the dynamic hip screw.
Elderly individuals may be particularly susceptible to fractured femurs. The femoral bone is the most difficult bone to break in the human body. A femoral nailing is surgery to repair a broken femur using the help of an X-ray. An alternative to femoral nailing is the used of a metal plate and bone screws. Patients are advised to stay in bed for 1-2 days following a femoral nailing procedure, after which they are able to move around while supervised.