Definition of POLICY. 1. a: prudence or wisdom in the management of affairs b: management or procedure based primarily on material interest. 2. Origin of POLICY. alteration of earlier police, from Middle French, certificate, from Old Italian polizza, modification of Medieval Latin apodixa receipt, from Middle Greek apodeixis, from Greek, proof, from apodeiknynai to demonstrate — more at apodictic.
In practice, most policy-based networking software today requires specific knowledge of the network configuration and the use of a more artificial language. 1) In policy-based networking, a policy is a formal set of statements that define how the network's resources are to be allocated among its clients. Clients can be individual users, departments, host computers, or applications. 
Policy is made on behalf of the public.. Policy is oriented toward a goal or desired state, such as the solution of a problem. Policy is ultimately made by governments, even if the ideas come from outside government or through the interaction of government and the public. Policy is made in response to some sort of issue or problem that requires attention. Policy is what the government chooses to do (actual) or not do (implied) about a particular issue or problem.
Definition of PUBLIC POLICY. 1. : the governing policy within a community as embodied in its legislative and judicial enactments which serve as a basis for determining what acts are to be regarded as contrary to the public good. 2. : the principle of law by virtue of which acts contrary to the public good are held invalid. ADVERTISEMENT
Policy or policy study may also refer to the process of making important organizational decisions, including the identification of different alternatives such as programs or spending priorities, and choosing among them on the basis of the impact they will have. Policy differs from rules or law. While law can compel or prohibit behaviors (e.g. a law requiring the payment of taxes on income), policy merely guides actions toward those that are most likely to achieve a desired outcome.
vs. NetIQ Identity Manager. Group Policy is a hierarchical infrastructure that allows a network administrator in charge of Microsoft's Active Directory to implement specific configurations for users and computers. Group Policy can also be used to define user, security and networking policies at the machine level. 
Specifically, public policy has a number of key attributes: Policy is made in response to some sort of issue or problem that requires attention. Policy is what the government chooses to do (actual) or not do (implied) about a particular issue or problem. Policy might take the form of law, or regulation, or the set of all the laws and regulations that govern a particular issue or problem.
Health policy refers to decisions, plans, and actions that are undertaken to achieve specific health care goals within a society. An explicit health policy can achieve several things: it defines a vision for the future which in turn helps to establish targets and points of reference for the short and medium term. 
A policy is a deliberate system of principles to guide decisions and achieve rational outcomes. A policy is a statement of intent, and is implemented as a procedure or protocol. Policy differs from rules or law. While law can compel or prohibit behaviors (e.g. a law requiring the payment of taxes on income), policy merely guides actions toward those that are most likely to achieve a desired outcome.