Definition. Central processing unit (CPU) on a single silicon chip (called microchip) that can be 'soft wired' by using different programming instructions. When coupled with memory and input-output devices, a microprocessor becomes a microcomputer. Intel 4004, one of the earliest microprocessors, had a 4-bit data bus and could address 4.5 kilobytes of memory. The first mass produced microprocessor was Intel 8080 that in 1973 cost about $400.
Part of the Microprocessors glossary: A processor is the logic circuitry that responds to and processes the basic instruction s that drive a computer. The term processor has generally replaced the term central processing unit (CPU). The processor in a personal computer or embedded in small devices is often called a microprocessor.
CPUs/Processors. CPU (is also known as Central Processing Unit or Processor) is the most important component of a computer. CPU/Processor is used to explain computer instructions and process software data in computer. CPU/Processor can be divided into desktop processors, server processors, and mobile p
Full Definition of MICROPROCESSOR. : a computer processor contained on an integrated-circuit chip; also: such a processor with memory and associated circuits. See microprocessor defined for English-language learners. See microprocessor defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The microprocessor is a multipurpose, programmable device that accepts digital data as input, processes it according to instructions stored in its memory, and provides results as output. Intel introduced its first 4-bit microprocessor 4004 in 1971 and its 8-bit microprocessor 8008 in 1972. During the 1960s, computer processors were constructed out of small and medium-scale ICs—each containing from tens of transistors to a few hundred.
A microprocessor -- also known as a CPU or central processing unit -- is a complete computation engine that is fabricated on a single chip. The first microprocessor was the Intel 4004, introduced in 1971. The 4004 was not very powerful -- all it could do was add and subtract, and it could only do that 4 bits at a time. 
Part of the Microprocessors glossary: A microprocessor, sometimes called a logic chip, is a computer processor on a microchip. The microprocessor contains all, or most of, the central processing unit (CPU) functions and is the engine that goes into motion when you turn your computer on.
The microprocessor, also known as the Central Processing Unit (CPU), is the brain of all computers and many household and electronic devices. Multiple microprocessors, working together, are the hearts of datacenters, super-computers, communications products, and other digital devices. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A microprocessors is simply a computer processor that has been configured into the design and function of a microchip. Sometimes referred to as a logic chip, this small component functions as the means of executing the command to start booting up a computer. 