Canadarm (right) during Space Shuttle mission STS-72. The Shuttle Remote Manipulator System (SRMS), also known as Canadarm (Canadarm 1), is a series of robotic arms that were used on the Space Shuttle orbiters to deploy, maneuver and capture payloads. This safety system allows the Orbiter's payload bay doors to be closed in the event that the arm fails in an extended position and is not able to be retracted. The Canadarm is 15.2 m (50 ft) long and 38 cm (15 in) diameter with six degrees of freedom.
Booms. Between the shoulder, elbow and wrist joints were upper and lower booms constructed of graphite-epoxy. The upper arm boom was about 5 metres long and 33 centimetres in diameter. It was made up of 16 plies of graphite-epoxy (each ply is 0.013 centimetres thick) and weighed about 23 kilograms. The lower arm boom was about 5.8 metres long by 33 centimetres in diameter, made up of 11 layers of graphite-epoxy and weighed about 22.7 kilograms. Each boom was protected with a Kevlar bumper (the same material used in bulletproof vests) to prevent dents or scratches on the carbon composite
The original Canadarm was capable of deploying and retrieving payloads weighing up to 332.5 kg (733 lb) in space. In the mid-1990s the arm control system was redesigned to increase the payload capability to 3,293 kg (7,260 lb) in order to support space station assembly operations. This safety system allows the Orbiter's payload bay doors to be closed in the event that the arm fails in an extended position and is not able to be retracted. The Canadarm is 15.2 m (50 ft) long and 38 cm (15 in) diameter with six degrees of freedom.
The Canadarm joint. This basic element is called a joint-one-degree-of-freedom or. . Photo: MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates Ltd. (. ). Each subassembly component of the. (i.e. the shoulder, elbow or wrist) was made up of a basic element called a joint one-degree-of-freedom or. . It was made up of 16 plies of graphite-epoxy (each ply is 0.013 centimetres thick) and weighed about 23 kilograms. The lower arm boom was about 5.8 metres long by 33 centimetres in diameter, made up of 11 layers of graphite-epoxy and weighed about 22.7
Visit the Canadarm at the Canada Aviation and Space Museum in Ottawa. 20 Stunning Images of the Canadarm. Canadarm, Canada's most famous robotic and technological achievement, made its space debut on the Space Shuttle Columbia (STS-2) on November 13, 1981.
Canadarm. The Canadarm was a remote-controlled mechanical arm, also known as the Shuttle Remote Manipulator System (SRMS). During its 30-year career with NASA’s Space Shuttle Program, the robotic arm deployed, captured and repaired satellites, positioned astronauts, maintained equipment, and moved cargo. The Canadarm’s first flight was with the space shuttle Columbia on 13 November 1981. Columbia was the second of NASA’s shuttle missions (also known as STS-2). It performed well and exceeded all design goals. Between 1981 and its final flight in 2011, the Canadarm flew 90 times.
I’ll start off by showing you the “Canadarm”. Canada’s most famous robotic and technological achievement, the “Canadarm” made it in space on November 13, 1981. The $110-million was largely carried out by the National Research Council of Canada. The arm first flew in November 1981 on the second space shuttle flight and performed well, exceeding all design goals. 
To cope with the harsh elements of space, the Canadarm was made with the latest aerospace materials including titanium, stainless steel and graphite epoxy. It was fitted with an insulated blanket with thermostatically controlled heaters to keep it at an acceptable temperature in space. Canadarm-Canada's most famous robot and technological achievement-made its space debut on November 13, 1981. It was designed, developed and built by Spar Space Robotics operation, now MacDonald Dettwiler Space and Advanced Robotics Ltd.
1 The Canadarm was seen in the 2013 space-thriller film Gravity, shown as being used to repair the Hubble Space Telescope from a space shuttle. 2  On November 13, 2012, Google Canada displayed a doodle on its home search page to celebrate the 31st anniversary of the Canadarm's first use in space. This safety system allows the Orbiter's payload bay doors to be closed in the event that the arm fails in an extended position and is not able to be retracted. The Canadarm is 15.2 m (50 ft) long and 38 cm (15 in) diameter with six degrees of freedom.
Canada's Contribution to the Space Shuttle Program. Canadarm-Canada's most famous robot and technological achievement-made its space debut on November 13, 1981. It was designed, developed and built by Spar Space Robotics operation, now MacDonald Dettwiler Space and Advanced Robotics Ltd.