The imaginary line is called the Tropic of Cancer because when the Sun reaches the zenith at this latitude, it is entering the astrological sign of Cancer (summer solstice in the northern hemisphere). When it was named, the Sun was also in the direction of the constellation Cancer (Latin for crab). World map showing the Tropic of Cancer. The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the Northern Tropic, is the most northerly circle of latitude on the Earth at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its culmination.
Most deserts lie between 15° and 35° north and south of the equator. They were created by air that rises over the equator and comes down over the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. All over the world many deserts lie in these regions. 1  Land over the equator becomes very hot. 2  The hot and wet air rises and it rains a lot in these areas.
1 Temperate Climate Zone-These areas are between the Tropic of Cancer and the Arctic Circle and between the Tropic of Capricorn and the Antarctic Circle. 2  The climate in these areas is warm in the summer and cold in the winter. Precipitation is the amount of water in the form of rain, snow, sleet,etc. that falls from the sky. An area with little precipitation has a dry or arid climate. There are three basic climate zones. 1  Tropical climate zone. 2  This is an area that falls between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn.
The Tropic of Capricorn is the dividing line between the Southern Temperate Zone to the south and the tropics to the north. The northern hemisphere equivalent of the Tropic of Capricorn is the Tropic of Cancer. The Tropic of Capricorn (or the Southern Tropic) is the circle of latitude that contains the subsolar point on the December (or southern) solstice.
Much land on or near the Tropic of Cancer is part of the Sahara Desert, whilst to the east the climate is torrid monsoonal with a short wet season from June to September and very little rainfall for the rest of the year. World map showing the Tropic of Cancer. The Tropic of Cancer, also referred to as the Northern Tropic, is the most northerly circle of latitude on the Earth at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its culmination.
The reason for the location of the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn at 23.5° north and south respectively is due to the axial tilt of the Earth. The Earth is titled 23.5 degrees from the plane of the Earth's revolution around the sun each year. The Tropic of Cancer is located at 23.5° North of the equator and runs through Mexico, the Bahamas, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, India, and southern China.
Most deserts get very little rainfall— on average, not more than 20 cm a year. There may be years without any rainfall at all. Sometimes a lot of rain falls during thunderstorms that last for a few hours. When the desert dries up after heavy rainfall, salt and other minerals are left behind on the ground. They were created by air that rises over the equator and comes down over the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. All over the world many deserts lie in these regions. 1  Land over the equator becomes very hot. 2  The hot and wet air rises and it rains a lot in these areas.
They are centered along the Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.http://www.mapsofworld.com/world-desert-... The heart of the tropical desert climate is found near the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn, usually toward the western side of the continents. .A desert is a landscape or region that receives very little precipitation. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: -- Warm air masses created two belts of desert, one along the Tropic of Cancer and the other along the Tropic of Capricorn.http://encarta.msn.com/media_461530118/w... ------Formation of hot deserts There are three main, interlinked causes of hot deserts: The formation of the subtropical high-pressure cell