an·ti·trust. adj. Opposing or intended to regulate business monopolies, such as trusts or cartels, especially in the interest of promoting competition: antitrust legislation. an•ti•trust. opposing or intended to restrain trusts, monopolies, or other large combinations of business and capital, esp. to promote competition: antitrust laws. [1885–90, Amer.
Antitrust Law & Legal Definition. Trusts and monopolies are concentrations of wealth in the hands of a few. Trusts and monopolies are considered harmful restraints of trade which alter normal marketplace competition, and yield undesirable price controls. ANTI-TRUST LAWS. The Sherman Antitrust Act prohibits monopolies and restraint of trade. For example, several suppliers of widgets get together and agree they will all sell widgets for $1.00 to stores, and no less. This hurts competition.
The first federal legislation in the U.S. with regard to trusts was the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890. However, it was not until 1904 that it was applied successfully, due to the vigorous opposition from the powerful trusts, which controlled many politicians. Free competition is the situation in which multiple companies offer identical or similar products and compete solely on the basis of price and quality, including the quality of any services that are associated with the products (e.g., packaging, delivery and warranties).
Antitrust: An Overview. Trusts and monopolies are concentrations of economic power in the hands of a few. Economists believe that such control injures both individuals and the public because it leads to anticompetitive practices in an effort to obtain or maintain total control.
Full Definition of ANTITRUST. : of, relating to, or being legislation against or opposition to trusts or combinations; specifically: consisting of laws to protect trade and commerce from unlawful restraints and monopolies or unfair business practices. See antitrust defined for English-language learners
Antitrust Definition. Antitrust refers to government policy to regulate or break up monopolies in order to promote free competition and attain the benefits that such competition can provide to the economy and to society as a whole. Free competition is the situation in which multiple companies offer identical or similar products and compete solely on the basis of price and quality, including the quality of any services that are associated with the products (e.g., packaging, delivery and warranties).
BREAKING DOWN 'Antitrust'. Examples of illegal practices are price-fixing conspiracies, corporate mergers likely to reduce the competitive vigor of particular markets, and predatory acts designed to achieve or maintain monopoly power. Microsoft, ATT, and J.D. Rockefeller Oil are companies who have been convicted of antitrust practices.
United States antitrust law is a collection of federal and state government laws, which regulates the conduct and organization of business corporations, generally to promote fair competition for the benefit of consumers. Every violation of the antitrust laws is a blow to the free-enterprise system envisaged by Congress. This system depends on strong competition for its health and vigor, and strong competition depends, in turn, on compliance with antitrust legislation.
DEFINITION of 'Antitrust'. The antitrust laws apply to virtually all industries and to every level of business, including manufacturing, transportation, distribution, and marketing. They prohibit a variety of practices that restrain trade. Examples of illegal practices are price-fixing conspiracies, corporate mergers likely to reduce the competitive vigor of particular markets, and predatory acts designed to achieve or maintain monopoly power. Microsoft, ATT, and J.D. Rockefeller Oil are companies who have been convicted of antitrust practices.