When the vet does your rabbit's health check, ask them check your rabbit's hearing and eyesight. Rabbits with red or blue eyes are particularly prone to vision problems. If you do find out your rabbit is blind or deaf then changing the way you interact with him can reduce the aggression. 
Myxomatosis (sometimes shortened to  myxo  or myxy) is a disease that affects rabbits and is caused by the myxoma virus. It was first observed in Uruguay in laboratory rabbits in the late 19th century. It was introduced into Australia in 1950 in an attempt to control the rabbit population (see Rabbits in Australia). 
Fur mites, or walking dandruff, affect mainly rabbits, but also guinea pigs, hedgehogs, rodents, cats, and dogs. Although an uncommon host for the mite, these mites can also be transmitted to humans. 
Humans affect the tiger's habitat by hunting them. Also of all the pollution that is put in their habitat. Thanks to people who care about the tigers and want to make a differ … ence we still have tigers. But if we stop caring about them sooner or later they will all die out. By cutting down trees and building houses and farmlands in a rabbit's habitat.
A rabbit's lifespan is influenced by breed, living conditions and healthcare but the average lifespan is likely to be around 8 to 9 years. It can be helpful to think of one year in a rabbit's life as ten years in a human's life, so an 8 year old rabbit could be thought of as approximately 80 years old in human terms. 
What is tularemia? Tularemia, a disease that can affect both animals and humans, is caused by a bacterium, Francisella tularemsis. Although many wild animals are infected, (hares, rabbits, muskrats, beavers) some domestic animals like sheep and cats can be infected too. 
Humans can change habitats by converting the land in one way or another. How and why we affect habitats depends on the type of habitat in question.Forests-We cut down trees … for several reasons, mainly to use the trees or to clear the forest out to allow for agriculture. By cutting down trees and building houses and farmlands in a rabbit's habitat.
Certain diseases carried by pet bunnies can be transferred to humans. Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. The Cheyletiella parasitovorax mite can cause flaky skin and hair loss in pet rabbits. While the mites can be transmitted to humans, such infections usually pose no major health risks and resolve in a few days. When a veterinarian determines a rabbit has fur mites, that means the animal has been infected with the Cheyletiella parasitovorax mite, a small pest related to the mites that affect cats and dogs. Rabbits typically have a small number of benign fur mites even when healthy
Rabbits and other wild rodents are the primary species affected. Tularemia can also affect beaver and muskrats. Livestock and pets including pigs, horses, dogs, cats, fish and birds can also get tularemia. Sheep are especially susceptible. Cattle rarely get the disease. 