ATP synthase is a ubiquitous membrane enzyme that plays a key role in biological energy metabolism. This enzyme interconverts two major energy currencies of a living cell: adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and transmembrane electrochemical proton potential difference. ATP synthase is found in bacteria, plants, and animals. In most organisms the primary function of the enzyme is ATP synthesis from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P. 1  Enzyme overview: general and specific information about the enzyme, its structure, functions, regulation, and even a bit of history.
1. Chloroplast ATP synthase and the enzyme from some photosynthetic bacteria have 2 different, although similar, b-type subunits in the proton translocating F O portion, namely b and b' , one copy of each. High homology is found for most of the ATP synthase subunits from different bacteria and chloroplasts.
ATP synthase is a ubiquitous enzyme that is located in the inner membranes of mitochondria, thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts, or the plasma membranes of bacteria.
Chloroplast ATP synthase and the enzyme from some photosynthetic bacteria have 2 different, although similar, b-type subunits in the proton translocating F O portion, namely b and b' , one copy of each. High homology is found for most of the ATP synthase subunits from different bacteria and chloroplasts.
ATP synthase complexes of bacteria, mitochondria and chloroplasts are all very similar, with only minor differences. Mitochondria are believed to have evolved from symbiotic aerobic bacteria ingested by an anaerobic host cell. The limiting membrane of the bacterium became the inner mitochondrial membrane.
F1Fo ATP Synthase of mitochondria, chloroplasts, and bacteria is represented schematically at right. When the electrochemical H + gradient is favorable, F 1 F o catalyzes ATP synthesis coupled to spontaneous H+ flux toward the side of the membrane where F 1 protrudes.
Subunit composition of the ATP synthase. There are minor differences between bacteria, mitochondria and chloroplasts in some of the smaller subunits, which leads to a confusing nomenclature. The simplest system is that from E. coli. The ATP synthase can be dissociated into two fractions by relatively mild salt treatments.