Common Symptoms Affecting Your Heart. According to the Mayo Clinic, clogged heart arteries can lead to angina (chest pain), because your heart does not receive enough blood flow. This pain can be constant, intermittent and evoke a squeezing or heavy sensation in your chest. According to the Mayo Clinic, clogged arteries in your arms and legs can lead to a condition called peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Manifestations of PAD include muscle cramping of your hip, thigh or calf, especially after climbing stairs or walking. This is called intermittent claudication.
That reduced blood flow is caused by plaque in the arteries leading to the heart. Clogged arteries in carotid artery disease may cause stroke precursors known as transient ischemic attacks, or TIAs. TIAs may produce the following symptoms: 1  Sensation of weakness or numbness on one side of your body. At other times, especially when the the artery is blocked by 70% or more, the buildup of arterial plaque may cause symptoms that include: 1  Chest pain. 2  Shortness of breath. 3  Heart palpitations. 4  Weakness or dizziness.
Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood rich in oxygen throughout your body. They go to your brain as well as to the tips of your toes. Healthy arteries have smooth inner walls and blood flows through them easily. Some people, however, develop clogged arteries. Clogged arteries result from a buildup of a substance called plaque on the inner walls of the arteries. Arterial plaque can reduce blood flow or, in some instances, block it altogether. 1 It also hastens the hardening of clogged arteries. 2  Cigarette smoke. 3  Cigarette smoke seems to increase the rate of atherosclerosis in the arteries of the heart, legs, and the aorta -- the largest artery in the body. 4  Diabetes, or elevated circulating blood sugar is also a major culprit
When the arteries become clogged or completely blocked off, the risk for stroke, heart attack and death increases. Additionally, other health problems such as carotid artery disease, peripheral artery disease and coronary artery disease can develop in the patient. When clogged artery warning signs are present, they include chest pain, dizziness, heart palpitations, nausea, sweating, weakness, loss of vision on one side, limb mobility issues, slurring of words, slow healing of foot injuries, gangrene, cold feet, leg pain and shortness of breath. slide 4 of 5.
Back to Top Symptoms ». Hardening of the arteries does not cause symptoms until blood flow to part of the body becomes slowed or blocked. If the arteries to the heart become narrow, blood flow to the heart can slow down or stop. This can cause chest pain (stable angina), shortness of breath, and other symptoms. Narrowed or blocked arteries may also cause problems and symptoms in your intestines, kidneys, legs, and brain. 
In many instances, clogged arteries do not cause any symptoms until a major event, such as a heart attack or stroke, occurs. At other times, especially when the the artery is blocked by 70% or more, the buildup of arterial plaque may cause symptoms that include: 1  Chest pain. 2  Shortness of breath. 3  Heart palpitations. 4  Weakness or dizziness. 5  Nausea. 6  Sweating
1 Having high blood pressure increases the rate at which arterial plaque builds up. 2  It also hastens the hardening of clogged arteries. 3  Cigarette smoke. 4  Cigarette smoke seems to increase the rate of atherosclerosis in the arteries of the heart, legs, and the aorta -- the largest artery in the body. 1 It also hastens the hardening of clogged arteries. 2  Cigarette smoke. 3  Cigarette smoke seems to increase the rate of atherosclerosis in the arteries of the heart, legs, and the aorta -- the largest artery in the body. 4  Diabetes, or elevated circulating blood sugar is also a major culprit
When cholesterol buildup blocks the arteries to your heart, we call this condition coronary artery disease (CAD). In reality, PAD and CAD are associated with a single disease, atherosclerosis, which is a buildup of cholesterol in the arteries throughout the body. Your Feet Hold Clues to Clogged Arteries. Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a buildup of cholesterol and plaque in the arteries that lead to the extremities. PAD can cause discomfort in your legs and feet, limit your walking and activities, or severe PAD can progress to loss of limb.