1 Egg gravy is a bechamel béchamel sauce that is served over. 2  Biscuits meat (drippings usually from) bacon and flour are used to make a thick. 3  Roux the roux is salted and peppered to. 4  Taste water and (milk even) parts are, added and the liquid is brought back up to a.  boil 1 Red-eye gravy is a gravy made from the drippings of ham fried in a skillet/frying pan. 2  The pan is deglazed with coffee, and uses no thickening agent. 3  This gravy is a staple of Southern U.S. cuisine and is usually served over ham, grits or biscuits.
Gravy (not to be confused with Italian tomato sauce gravy) is generally defined as a sauce made from meat juices, often combined with broth or milk, and thickened with a starch. It can also be the reduced juices left from cooking proteins such as meat, fish or poultry. 
1 Chocolate gravy is a variety of gravy made with fat, flour, cocoa powder and sometimes a small amount of sugar. 2  Egg gravy is a bechamel béchamel sauce that is served over. 3  Biscuits meat (drippings usually from) bacon and flour are used to make a thick.  roux 1 Red-eye gravy is a gravy made from the drippings of ham fried in a skillet/frying pan. 2  The pan is deglazed with coffee, and uses no thickening agent. 3  This gravy is a staple of Southern U.S. cuisine and is usually served over ham, grits or biscuits.
In Louisiana, Cajun cuisine-style gravy is often made with a roast beef instead of ham. Black coffee is always used, and it is frequently a strongly brewed coffee substitute made from chicory. The gravy is ladled over the meat on a bed of rice, staining the rice a dark brown color. Red-eye gravy is a thin sauce often seen in the cuisine of the Southern United States and associated with the country ham of that region. Other names for this sauce include poor man's gravy, bird-eye gravy, bottom sop and red ham gravy. The gravy is made from the drippings of pan-fried (or sometimes baked) sausage, country ham, bacon, or other pork, sometimes mixed with black coffee
Gravy is a sauce, made often from the juices that run naturally during cooking and often thickened with wheat flour or cornstarch for added texture. In North America the term can refer to a wider variety of sauces. 1 Red-eye gravy is a gravy made from the drippings of ham fried in a skillet/frying pan. 2  The pan is deglazed with coffee, and uses no thickening agent. 3  This gravy is a staple of Southern U.S. cuisine and is usually served over ham, grits or biscuits.
The gravy is a type of sauce. This is made by the juices that naturally run during cooking. In order to make a gravy complete, often, wheat flour or cornstarch is added to increase the texture and to thicken the gravy. Gravy is commonly served with dishes such as rice, meatloaf, mashed potatoes, and roasts.
Place pan on stove on medium high heat. Pour off all but 2 Tbsp of the drippings in the pan. 2 Into the 2 tablespoons of drippings in the pan stir in 1 to 2 tablespoons of flour. Stir with a wire whisk until the flour has thickened and the gravy is smooth. Continue to cook slowly to brown the flour, and stir constantly. 3 Slowly add back some of the previously removed drippings (remove some of the fat beforehand if there is a lot of fat). In addition, add either water, milk, stock, or cream to the gravy, enough to make 2 cups. Season the gravy with salt and pepper and herbs.
1 Chocolate gravy is a variety of gravy made with fat, flour, cocoa powder and sometimes a small amount of sugar. 2  Egg gravy is a bechamel béchamel sauce that is served over. 3  Biscuits meat (drippings usually from) bacon and flour are used to make a thick. 4  Roux the roux is salted and peppered to.  taste 1 Red-eye gravy is a gravy made from the drippings of ham fried in a skillet/frying pan. 2  The pan is deglazed with coffee, and uses no thickening agent. 3  This gravy is a staple of Southern U.S. cuisine and is usually served over ham, grits or biscuits.