Glycolysis occurs in the cytosol and not within the mitochondria. Pyruvic acid molecules later enter mitochondria to participate in the next phase of the aerobic cell respiration. Related Discussions:- Does glycolysis occur within the mitochondria, Assignment Help, Ask Question on Does glycolysis occur within the mitochondria, Get Answer, Expert's Help, Does glycolysis occur within the mitochondria Discussions.
Glycolysis a. occurs in the mitochondria b. reults in the production of pyruvate c. occurs in the cytoplasm d. occurs in the mitochondria and results in the production of pyru … vate *e. results in the production of pyruvate and occurs in the cytoplasm Answer is E. + 2 others found this useful. The PDA comes next (in aerobic organisms), which is in the mitochondrial membrane. After that is the TCA Cycle (also known a … s the Krebs Cycle and the Citric Acid Cycle). Then is the ETC. Glycolysis is the breakdown of glucose eventually into fructose and then pyruvate.
1 Unlike the rest of aerobic respiration, which takes place in the mitochondria, glycolysis takes place in the cytoplasm of the cell. 2  Unlike the rest of aerobic respiration, glycolysis does not require oxygen. 1 Glycolysis splits glucose, a six-carbon compound, into two pyruvate molecules, each of which has three carbons. 2  In glycolysis, a 2 ATP investment results in a 4 ATP payoff. 3 
Where in the cell does glycolysis occur? a. between the inner and outer mitochondrial membrane b. ER c. within the fluid just inside the inner mitochondrial membrane d.... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cytosol. glycolysis takes place In the cytosol.The cytoplasm refers to the space between the cell membrane and the nucleus, including the intracellular fluid and organelles. The cytosol, however, refers to just the fluid
Fermentation reactions occur in the cytoplasm of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. In the absence of oxygen, pyruvate does not enter the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells. Energy metabolism in eukaryotes vs prokaryotes. In prokaryotic cells, all the metabolic pathways occur in the cytoplasm, except for chemiosmosis and oxidative phosphorylation, which occur on the plasma membrane. In the absence of any suitable electron acceptor, they use fermentation pathways. In eukaryotic cells, glycolysis and fermentation reactions occur in the cytoplasm. The remaining pathways, starting with pyruvate oxidation, occur in the mitochondria. Most eukaryotic mitochondria can use only oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor for respiration
Cellular Respiration is divided into two series of biochemical reactions: anaerobic and aerobic reactions. Anaerobic reactions occur in the cytoplasm of the cell and aerobic reactions occur in the mitochondria of the cells. Notice in the picture below that glycolysis is happening in the cytoplasm and everything else is occurring inside the mitochondria, which require oxygen. 
Glycolysis takes place in the cytoplasm of a cell. The PDA comes next (in aerobic organisms), which is in the mitochondrial membrane. After that is the TCA Cycle (also known a … s the Krebs Cycle and the Citric Acid Cycle). Then is the ETC. Glycolysis is the breakdown of glucose eventually into fructose and then pyruvate.
Glycolysis is part of cellular respiration. Usually it is an aerobic process (meaning it used oxygen). The Kreb's cycle occurs in the mitochondria after glycolysis had occured. If there is no oxygen, fermentaion will occur. But fermentation does not produce much energy for cells (this is the cause for muscle cramps). So in the cases where there is no oxygen, the cell is still getting some energy because glycolysis occurs outside the mitochondria.