In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. 
Constructive plate boundary. A constructive plate boundary, sometimes called a divergent plate margin, occurs when plates move apart. Volcanoes are formed as magma wells up to fill the gap, and eventually new crust is formed. An example of a constructive plate boundary is the mid-Atlantic Ridge. A conservative plate boundary, sometimes called a transform plate margin, occurs where plates slide past each other in opposite directions, or in the same direction but at different speeds. Friction is eventually overcome and the plates slip past in a sudden movement
The lines where they meet are called plate boundaries. There are three main types of plate boundary: divergent, convergent and transform. Plates move away from one another at divergent boundaries. This happens at mid-ocean ridges. Plates move towards one another at convergent boundaries; one plate is forced below another in a process called subduction. Earthquakes and composite volcanoes are common at this type of boundary. Plates move past on another at transform boundaries. 
A divergent plate boundary is a weakness in the crust where two plates are moving apart. Pressure along with the thinness of the crust causes molten material to form and rise … to the surface. In answer to your question, No, Conservative plate boundaries create earthquakes due to the large amounts of friction between the two plates. Hope I have been of help.
Also known as passive plate boundaries. 1  The main effects of a conservative plate boundary are earthquakes, which can be fairly violent and frequent. 2  Two plates slide past each other, without creating or destroying any land. 1 Although often not as violent as those on destructive plate boundaries, volcanoes and earthquakes do occur on constructive plate boundaries. 2  They also cause mid-ocean ridges to form. 3  Two plates move away from each other.
Constructive Plate Boundaries. Also known as divergent or tensional boundaries. 1  Although often not as violent as those on destructive plate boundaries, volcanoes and earthquakes do occur on constructive plate boundaries. 2  They also cause mid-ocean ridges to form. 3  Two plates move away from each other. 1
Conservative plate boundary. A conservative plate boundary, sometimes called a transform plate margin, occurs where plates slide past each other in opposite directions, or in the same direction but at different speeds. Friction is eventually overcome and the plates slip past in a sudden movement