Marine plywood is frequently used in the construction of docks and boats. It is much more expensive than standard plywood: the cost for a typical 4-foot by 8-foot 1/2-inch thick board is roughly $125 U.S. or around $3.50 per square foot, which is two to three times as expensive as standard plywood, depending on grade. Marine plywood can be graded as being compliant with BS 1088, which is a British Standard for marine plywood. There are few international standards for grading marine plywood and most of the standards are voluntary. Some marine plywood has a Lloyd's of London stamp that certifies it to be BS 1088 compliant.
Shares & Saves. Save. Marine plywood is a form of plywood that has been constructed using waterproof adhesives to make it suitable for use in wet environments, including a home-built boat, the sub-floors of a home, the sheathing of a utility shed's walls and of a pier, boat house and other structures. Non-U.S. sources of marine plywood may use cedar or other woods for the fascia plies. All plies of wood are at least B grade, having knots, but without knotholes. The panels are glued together with a waterproof structural adhesive. The core may have a gap no larger than 1/8-inch throughout.
Marine plywood or just marine ply is used as a building material in marine setting, such as on ships or at docks. Marine ply performs well in humid or wet conditions or anywhere it will receive prolonged exposure to moisture. However marine plywood is far more expensive than regular plywood so unless you have a large budget it is not the ideal solution. The excellent moisture-resistant properties of marine plywood will also only be utilised to full effect in a marine setting, such as on a dock or boat.
Plywood Glue. Any glue used for marine plywood or for that matter also used in exterior use has to conform to the a stringent test. Plywood assembled from it needs to be able to withstand boiling in water for several hours without de-laminating. This is WBP glue and stands for Weather and Boil Proof.
Plywood is a sheet material manufactured from thin layers or plies of wood veneer that are glued together with adjacent layers having their wood grain rotated up to 90 degrees to one another. Marine plywood can be graded as being compliant with BS 1088, which is a British Standard for marine plywood. There are few international standards for grading marine plywood and most of the standards are voluntary. Some marine plywood has a Lloyd's of London stamp that certifies it to be BS 1088 compliant.
Marine plywood is not waterproof; only the adhesive that binds the plies together is waterproof. If you plan to use marine plywood in a wet environment, it should be painted and any joints caulked just as you would with any other material. Non-U.S. sources of marine plywood may use cedar or other woods for the fascia plies. All plies of wood are at least B grade, having knots, but without knotholes. The panels are glued together with a waterproof structural adhesive. The core may have a gap no larger than 1/8-inch throughout.
Marine Glues. Glues used in exterior and marine plywood that will be exposed to water and weather is described as WBP (Weather and Boil Proof). This only means that a plywood sample glued with this adhesive does not delaminate after a prolonged period of boiling. It is NOT a description of the type of glue. 
Why would you select marine-grade wood or plywood when building or buying outdoor furniture? The key word here is marine, as in, by or near the ocean or other body of water. Also known as waterproof plywood, this type of plywood is made using water-resistant hardwood layers and gorilla-strength glue. Marine plywood is often used for outdoor projects like fences, gazebos, boats, and patio furniture -- objects that could experience damage due to moisture and condensation. Marine-grade plywood is constructed from layers of wood, bonded or blued together, with the layers running at right angles to one another using waterproof glue.