Thyroid dysfunction is when the thyroid gland, a small, butterfly-shaped gland located at the base of your neck, produces too much thyroid hormone. This is when you body’s endocrine system speed up, which is referred to as hyperthyroidism.
Thyroxine is the most important hormone produced by the thyroid gland. When the gland produces little or too much of this hormone, the body system faces major challenges. For example, if the thyroid is under-active, this could result in Goitre, which is a swelling at the neck.
The anterior pituitary makes several important hormones-growth hormone, puberty hormones (or gonadotrophins), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH, which stimulates the thyroid gland to make Thyroxine), prolactin and Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone (ACTH, which stimulates the adrenal stress hormone, cortisol).
The thyroid gland is a small, butterfly-shaped gland located in the base of the neck just below the Adam's apple. Although relatively small, the thyroid gland plays a huge role in our body, influencing the function of many of the body’s most important organs, including the heart, brain, liver, kidneys and skin.
The thyroid gland produces enough thyroid hormone to prompt your cells to function at a certain rate. Just as a car needs fuel, your thyroid needs “fuel” to make thyroid hormone. The “fuel” the thyroid gland needs is iodine. The iodine comes from your diet and is found in: iodized table salt, seafood, bread and milk.
Glands are not only important, they are vital for the human body, because they regulate the organism processes, by releasing hormones and other substances into the bloodstream. Spleen is the largest gland, but it is not vital and can be removed. Other glands, supra renal, thyroid gland, are important.
The thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland located at the base of your neck. It is one of many glands in the endocrine system in the body that regulate the function, growth and development of virtually every cell, tissue and organ in the body. Endocrine glands secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream.
The pituitary is an important gland in the body and it is often referred to as the 'master gland', because it controls several of the other hormone glands (e.g. adrenals, thyroid).