Huge inside shakeup as Google creates 'Alphabet' umbrella company. Let it never be said that Google is boring. Co-founder Larry Page today announced the creation of Alphabet, a new corporation that will comprise Google and other previously Google-held properties to better allow them to act and grow independently. The change was announced across Google's... We will rigorously handle capital allocation and work to make sure each business is executing well. On August 10, 2015 Google's Larry Page announced the formation of a new umbrella corporation named Alphabet.
REUTERS/Chip East Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin. Google just announced a major overhaul of its corporate structure. As part of the change, the company that used to be called Google is going to become a new holding company called Alphabet. The URL for the new company is abc.xyz.
Alphabet Inc. (commonly known as Alphabet) is a conglomerate created in 2015 as the parent company of Google and several other companies previously owned by or tied to Google. Alphabet's largest subsidiary is Google Inc. , but Alphabet is also the parent company to Calico, Google Ventures, Google Capital, Google X, Google Fiber, and Nest Labs.
Alphabet will be created to restructure Google by moving subsidiaries from Google to Alphabet, narrowing Google's scope. The company will consist of Google, Nest Labs, and Calico, as well as other businesses including Google X, Google Capital, and Google Ventures. Alphabet's largest subsidiary is Google Inc. , but Alphabet is also the parent company to Calico, Google Ventures, Google Capital, Google X, Google Fiber, and Nest Labs.
Google announced a corporate restructuring on Monday, forming an umbrella company called Alphabet and naming a new CEO to the core business of Google. Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin will run Alphabet -- Page as CEO and Brin as president. The company, which was founded in 1998 and went public in 2004, announced its new operating structure in a blog post on Monday called G is for Google.. Related: Read full text of the blog post. Alphabet will operate as the parent company for a number of smaller companies, including Google, which will continue to focus on Internet products.
Co-founder Larry Page today announced the creation of  Alphabet , a new corporation that will comprise Google and other previously Google-held properties to better allow them to act and grow independently. Pursuant to the Alphabet Merger, a newly formed entity (Merger Sub), a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Google, will merge with and into Google, with Google surviving as a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet.. Let it never be said that Google is boring.
Alphabet is the New Google…If That Makes Sense – Sundar Pichai is Google’s New CEO! OK, hang with me for a moment as I try to explain what Google’s Larry Page just announced. Through the official Google blog, Larry announced that he (as CEO) and Sergey Brin (as president) are creating a new company called Alphabet. 
DEFINITION of 'Alphabet Stock'. An equity share that is tied to a specific subsidiary of a corporation. It called an alphabet stock because the classification system uses letters to distinguish the stock from the parent company's stock. Alphabet stock has different voting rights from the parent company's stock. Moreover, alphabet stock typically pays a dividend that is tied to the operating performance of the particular subsidiary rather than the parent company. Next Up.