Claude Monet was A French impression painter born November 14th 1840 in Paris, France. He was one of the originators of impressionism, along with other French painters, for … example Renoir, Sisley and Bazille. Monet married twice and had two sons. He died of lung cancer December 5th 1926. He was also related to Dr. Phill. they were 3rd cousins. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Claude Monet has a personality where all he can see is mould and he thinks hes some kind of superstar but he's not-he might have to improvise and paint a new braun! lLOL.
1 The History of Claude Monet's Signatures in his Paintings Claude Monet (1840-1926) was a French painter famous for his distinct painting style, Impressionism, during the late nineteenth century. 2  His works reflected natural aspects i…. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Claude Monet has a personality where all he can see is mould and he thinks hes some kind of superstar but he's not-he might have to improvise and paint a new braun! lLOL.
Manet's paintings are considered among the first works of art in the modern era, due to his rough painting style and absence of idealism in his figures. Manet was a close friend of and major influence on younger artists who founded Impressionism such as Claude Monet, Edgar Degas and Pierre-Auguste Renoir. 
The personality of Claude Monet had a special place in the development of Impressionism. In the artistic area he became the centre of attention in the movement. It was also he who introduced very advanced ideas on landscape painting into the circle of young artists. Impressionism is arguably the most famous French painting movement ever. The actual name Impressionism was coined by the French art critic Louis Leroy, after visiting the first exhibition of Impressionist painting in 1874 where he saw Impression: Soleil Levant (1872) by Claude Monet.
Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s. 
The primary characteristic of Monet's work is his commitment to Impressionism and its basic characteristics, such as a focus on texture, light and brushstroke. Monet's focus changed from the subject -- such as a boat, landscape or person -- to the way that paint works on a canvas. Claude Monet fathered the Impressionistic movement in late 19th century France with his abstract rendering of boaters on a river, titled “Impression, soleil levant.” Monet painted consistently from 1874 until his death in 1926, and was most noted for his use of color and depictions of nature.
Artist Profile: Claude Monet. For many years, what I read about Monet seemed to indicate an artist with a prodigious work ethic, who went about the labor of his profession without the hindrance of temperament. His unwavering focus was almost intimidating. 
CLEAR ALL. Claude Monet (1840 - 1925), the founder of Impressionism, was one of the most influential landscape painters in the history of art. Born in Paris, Monet met fellow Impressionists Renoir, Sisley and Bazille while enrolled in the studio of Glenyre. Monet painted outdoors to convey the fleeting effects of atmosphere, time of day, and season upon color and light. 
Synopsis. Claude Monet was among the leaders of the French Impressionist movement of the 1870s and 1880s. His 1873 painting Impression, Sunrise gave the style its name, and as an inspirational talent and a personality, he was crucial in bringing its adherents together. Manet's paintings are considered among the first works of art in the modern era, due to his rough painting style and absence of idealism in his figures. Manet was a close friend of and major influence on younger artists who founded Impressionism such as Claude Monet, Edgar Degas and Pierre-Auguste Renoir.