Turmeric Health Benefits. Turmeric is an ancient root used for its healing properties for centuries. Turmeric comes from the rhizome (rootstock) of the Curcuma longa plant. To manufacture it, the roots of the plant are boiled, dried and then ground into a powder.
In most cases, symptoms occur in the same joints on both sides of your body ... Side effects can include nausea, belching and a fishy taste in the mouth ... Research on other supplements, such as ginger, green tea and turmeric, are still in the early stages, but preliminary studies show ... Ulcers www.lifescript ....
Precautions and Side Effects of Turmeric. Indeed, the possible turmeric benefits are substantial, but it is always good to be informed of possible side effects. Turmeric is considered a safe herb.
[1,4, 10] Turmeric side effects, if any, should be mild and limited.However, high doses of curcumin may increase the risk of ulcers. [5] People with liver disease should avoid turmeric, as turmeric may offer unpleasant side effect-toxicity to the liver. [32, 33].
Using turmeric in your cooking is considered safe and unlikely to cause side effects. Taking large doses of the spice or of supplements can result in gastrointestinal side effects. The most common gastrointestinal side effects are stomachache, gas, nausea and indigestion.
The first of the positive side effects of turmeric, the antioxidant effects, are something found in many health supplements (such as Omega 3 fatty acids) and super foods. Antioxidants help to protect the cells of our body by fighting free radicals which constantly bombard the cell walls.
Other uses include depression, Alzheimer ’s disease, water retention, worms, and kidney problems. Some people apply turmeric to the skin for pain, ringworm, bruising, leech bites, eye infections, inflammatory skin conditions, soreness inside of the mouth, and infected wounds.
Side effects can include nausea, belching and a fishy taste in the mouth ... Research on other supplements, such as ginger, green tea and turmeric, are still in the early stages, but preliminary studies show ... Ulcers www.lifescript.com/health/centers/digestive/alternative_treatments/ulcers.aspx.