The specialty of sleep psychology studies sleep and evaluates and treats sleep disorders. 1  It addresses behavioral, psychological and physiological factors that underlie normal and disordered sleep across the life span. Sleep psychology is a specialty that developed from the need to better understand and treat sleep and sleep‐related disorders. The specialty requires a broad understanding of: 1  Normal and disordered sleep. 2  Sleep physiology. 3  The effects of sleep medications on the brain. 4  Sleep cycles. 5  Sleep changes related to age.
Sleep. Sleep is essential for health and well-being. But millions of people don’t get enough, resulting in such problems as daytime sleepiness, poor decision-making, interference with learning and accidents. Cognitive-behavioral therapy, which helps people identify and change their thoughts and behaviors, can help. In fact, according to one study, cognitive-behavioral therapy does a better job of reducing insomnia than sleeping pills. Adapted from “ Why sleep is important and what happens when you don’t get enough ”.
Sleep is the regular state of natural rest observed in all mammals, birds and fish. Sleep is not actually  unconsciousness , but rather, it is a natural state of rest characterized by a reduction in voluntary body movement and decreased awareness of the surroundings. 1 Stage 5, or Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, associated with dreaming, especially bizarre, visual, and seemingly random dreams. 2  REM sleep is predominant in the final third of a sleep period, its timing linked to circadian rhythm and body temperature.
Sleep is essential for a person’s health and wellbeing, according to the National Sleep Foundation. Yet millions of people do not get enough sleep and many suffer from lack of sleep. Cognitive-behavioral therapy, which helps people identify and change their thoughts and behaviors, can help. In fact, according to one study, cognitive-behavioral therapy does a better job of reducing insomnia than sleeping pills. Adapted from “ Why sleep is important and what happens when you don’t get enough ”.
Sleep is a naturally recurring state of mind characterized by altered consciousness, relatively inhibited sensory activity, inhibition of nearly all voluntary muscles, and reduced interactions with surroundings. Humans may suffer from a number of sleep disorders. These include dyssomnias (such as insomnia, hypersomnia, and sleep apnea), parasomnias (such as sleepwalking and REM behavior disorder), bruxism, and the circadian rhythm
While there are currently no programs specifically related to sleep psychology, it is recommended that students apply to graduate schools that have AASM-accredited sleep programs, work alongside a faculty advisor with expertise in the sleep psychology field, and find a sleep-related clinical internship setting. As highly trained clinical mental health professionals, sleep psychologists typically specialize in diagnosing and treating the presence of sleep disorders that are caused by underlying behavioral or psychological problems.
PTSD, chronic pain (ﬁbromyalgia), and sleep problems are all characterized by circadian rhythm imbalance. In order to understand more fully the disruption of rhythm and time perception caused by trauma, it is useful to explore the role of circadian rhythm, light, and the pineal gland. 
Sleep psychology is a specialty field of professional psychology that studies sleep and evaluates and treats sleep disorders. Professional Sleep Psychologists are responsible for addressing the behavioral, psychological and physiological factors that underlie a range of sleep disorders for all ages and diverse populations. Some of these disorders include: 1  Sleep disorders. 2  Insomnias. 3  Hypersomnia, including narcolepsy