Split and merge into it. Answer by Crafton2006. Confidence votes 26. Direct TV is a satellite company that provides premium television to your home. It is connected through the use of a small dish and a receiver box. It provides basic and premium channels for a fee and can also provide on demand and pay-per-view programs. ---------. 
DirecTV also offers local channels like CBS, ABC, NBC, Fox, PBS, The CW, Telemundo, Azteca, Univision, ION Television (in markets that carry that network), and some independent stations in markets covering over 99.2% of U.S. TV households. 1 DirecTV HD Receiver (H10/H20/H21/H23/H24/H25) is a receiver which can receive an HD signal and broadcast in 1080i resolution. 2  H25 is the latest version. 3  After a 2009 software upgrade, the H2n series is capable of receiving 1080p
Advanced Features, More Mobility. Watch live TV channels and On Demand movies and shows on your tablet and phone at home and on-the-go with the DIRECTV Mobile App [4] With the DIRECTV VOICE [6] feature you can use voice search to quickly access all your TV listings. 
Whether you want a mind-blowing HD experience on your TV or you want to enjoy your favorite shows on whatever screen you have handy, DIRECTV is the ultimate source for everything you love in entertainment. View All Packages. Elevate your entertainment. We have over 285 of your favorite channels—more than 200 of them in full-time HD. 1 And that’s just the beginning. With DIRECTV, you get all the TV you love, live or On-Demand, on any screen you want, and the cutting-edge technology to experience it like never before.
The most common method of reception is direct-broadcast satellite television (DBSTV), also known as direct to home (DTH). In DBSTV systems, signals are relayed from a direct broadcast satellite on the Ku wavelength and are completely digital. Satellite TV systems formerly used systems known as television receive-only. 
DirecTV (stylized as DIRECTV) is an American direct broadcast satellite service provider and broadcaster based in El Segundo, California. 1 DirecTV HD Receiver (H10/H20/H21/H23/H24/H25) is a receiver which can receive an HD signal and broadcast in 1080i resolution. 2  H25 is the latest version. 3  After a 2009 software upgrade, the H2n series is capable of receiving 1080p
One of the biggest decisions for TV fans is whether to choose cable or satellite as their television service provider. Since most areas only have one cable company, satellite TV, especially leading provider DirecTV, can be a welcome alternative. Service. Cable TV providers and DirecTV both provide similar service, equipment and features, but one advantage cable enjoys is that satellite TV has a greater possibility of being affected by storms, bad weather and other obstructions, causing the signal to fade or be temporarily lost.
DIRECTV is digital-quality television. It functions when the programming is up-linked to a satellite and is then sent directly to your dish. The picture and sound through DirecTV are much better than what you receive through cable. The variety of programming is greater. DIRECTV has over 225 channels with a choice of programming packages. DIRECTV is the nation's first high-power direct broadcast satellite (DBS) service. It began in 1994, and now boasts over 10 million customers, making it the fastest selling consumer electronics product ever.
DIRECTV makes it easy to watch all of your favorite channels, movies, and sports, and Direct Star TV makes it easy to order America's #1 satellite TV service. From cutting-edge technology and features to premium networks and exclusive sports packages, DIRECTV offers a better television experience. As a DIRECTV preferred online retailer, Direct Star TV is there for you through the entire process, from ordering to installation. Our friendly, highly-trained Direct Star TV consultants are committed to ensuring that you get the best service possible and are completely satisfied with your new
Whether you prefer the basics, more bang for your buck or the whole enchilada, DIRECTV packages give you direct access to the most popular TV shows, movies and sports. Choose from a selection of six DIRECTV packages. Each one features a different number of channels so that you get just as much TV as you want. 150+ channels. Take a step up from the DIRECTV SELECT™ Package, with programming that includes national sports coverage from ESPN. The DIRECTV ENTERTAINMENT Package offers more channels, more variety and more entertainment for you and your family.