Endometriosis is a disease in which tissue that normally grows inside the uterus grows outside it. The main symptoms are pelvic pain and infertility. Nearly half of those affected have chronic pelvic pain, while in 70% pain occurs during menstruation. Pain with sex is also common. 
Endometriosis-Topic Overview. Endometriosis (say en-doh-mee-tree-OH-sus) is a problem many women have during their childbearing years. It means that a type of tissue that lines your uterus is also growing outside your uterus. This does not always cause symptoms. This is your menstrual period. When you have endometriosis, the implants of tissue outside your uterus act just like the tissue lining your uterus. During your menstrual cycle, they get thicker, then break down and bleed. But the implants are outside your uterus, so the blood cannot flow out of your body
Endometrial cells are the lining cells of the uterus and are cells that are shed each month during menstruation. Endometriosis occurs when cells like the lining of the uterus grow in or on tissues outside the uterus; these areas are called endometriosis implants. These implants are most commonly found on the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, outer surfaces of the uterus or intestines, and on the surface lining of the pelvic cavity. 1 Infertility. 2  Pelvic pain during menstruation or ovulation can be a symptom of endometriosis, but may also occur in normal women. 3  Endometriosis can be suspected based on the woman's pattern of symptoms, and sometimes during a physical examination, but the definite diagnosis is confirmed by surgery, usually laparoscopy.
Endometriosis, sometimes called endo, is a common health problem in women. It gets its name from the word endometrium, (en-doh-MEE-tree-um) the tissue that normally lines the uterus or womb. Endometriosis happens when this tissue grows outside of your uterus and on other areas in your body where it doesn't belong. Endometriosis growths are benign (not cancerous). But they can still cause problems. Endometriosis happens when tissue that is normally on the inside of your uterus or womb grows outside of your uterus or womb where it doesn't belong. Endometriosis growths bleed in the same way the lining inside of your uterus does every month — during your menstrual period
View full size image. Endometriosis is a medical condition that occurs when the lining of the uterus, called the endometrium, grows in other places, such as the fallopian tubes, ovaries or along the pelvis. When that lining breaks down, like the regular lining in the uterus that produces the menstruation, it has nowhere to go. 
Symptoms of endometriosis can include: 1  Pain. 2  This is the most common symptom. 3  Women with endometriosis may have many different kinds of pain. 4  These include: 5  Very painful menstrual cramps. 6  The pain may get worse over time. 7  Chronic (long-term) pain in the lower back and pelvis. 8  Pain during or after sex. Endometriosis growths are benign (not cancerous). But they can still cause problems. Endometriosis happens when tissue that is normally on the inside of your uterus or womb grows outside of your uterus or womb where it doesn't belong. Endometriosis growths bleed in the same way the lining inside of your uterus does every month — during your menstrual period
Experts don't know what causes endometrial tissue to grow outside your uterus. But they do know that the female hormone estrogen makes the problem worse. Women have high levels of estrogen during their childbearing years. It is during these years-usually from their teens into their 40s-that women have endometriosis. This is your menstrual period. When you have endometriosis, the implants of tissue outside your uterus act just like the tissue lining your uterus. During your menstrual cycle, they get thicker, then break down and bleed. But the implants are outside your uterus, so the blood cannot flow out of your body
Endometriosis Overview. Endometriosis is the development of uterine-lining tissue outside the uterus. Symptoms may include abdominal pain, heavy periods, and infertility. Treatment options include pain relievers, hormones, and surgery. 