Secondary colors are made by mixing two primary colors together: red and yellow to get orange, yellow and blue to get green, or red and blue to get purple. The secondary color you get depends on the proportions in which you mix the two primaries. If you mix three primary colors together, you get a tertiary color.
For pigments, where colors a … re mixed together, Red, Yellow and Blue.   The three primary colors are Red, Blue, and Yellow. From these colors, one can make the others by mixing them together. Red and blue make purple, red and yellow make orange, blue and yellow make green, ect.
If the three colors of light can be mixed to produce white, they are called primary colors and the standard additive primary colors are red, green and blue. Two colors that produce white when added together are called complementary. The color complementary to a primary color is called a secondary color.
There are seven colors defining wavelengths of visible light. They are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. However, the three primary colors for ADDITIVE combination (such as the colors on these web pages) are red, blue and green. All edited colors in computer images use a combination of these three.
The complementary or secondary colors for red, green and blue are cyan, magenta and yellow respectively. These three colors are often referred to as the subtractive primary colors. When the three are combined in subtractive color mixing, they produce black.
Answer: Red, yellow, and blue are primary colors. They are the three pigment colors that cannot be made by mixing any other colors. These three colors are mixed to create all other colors and can be combined with white or black to create tints (lighter tones) and shades (darker hues) of these colors.
The emission spectra of the three phosphors that define the additive primary colors of a CRT color video display. Unlike subtractive systems that use magenta, yellow, and cyan inks, additive systems such as computer displays mix red, green, and blue light to make all colors.
When added together, these component colors form the color white. For SUBTRACTIVE coloration, as in art, the primary colors are red, blue and yellow. In printing, these three colors were superceded (just as they were for light primaries), the modern equivalents being cyan, magenta, yellow and black. (see the related question). The primary colours are Red, Yellow and Blue.
The magenta-yellow-cyan and red-green-blue primaries are good in the sense that their combinations yield a wide range of colours from only three primaries.