10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. It is composed of fibers that look like a mixture of dark and light bands bundled together that run along the bone. These muscles are responsible for contracting and relaxing when a person moves. Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. Skeletal muscle attaches to the bones. At the macroscopic level, the skeletal muscles are composed of a variety of layers. Working out strengthens skeletal muscles, making them more visible.
Striation Patterns. -There are two main parts of the striation pattern of skeletal muscle fibers: * The light bands (I bands) are made up of tink filaments of actin attached to Z lines. *The dark bands (A bands) are made up of thick filaments of myosin that overlap thin filaments of actin
Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. It is composed of fibers that look like a mixture of dark and light bands bundled together that run along the bone. Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. Skeletal muscle attaches to the bones. At the macroscopic level, the skeletal muscles are composed of a variety of layers. Working out strengthens skeletal muscles, making them more visible.
The A and I bands repeat along the length of the muscle fibers to create the striations visible under the light microscope. 1  Sarcomeres repeat along skeletal and cardiac fibers. 2  Components between adjacent Z-lines comprise the sarcomere. 3  Sarcomeres are considered the functional units of striated muscles. 
1 The myofibril is composed of alternating bands. 2  The I-bands (isotropic in polarized light) appear light in color and the A-bands (anisotropic in polarized light) appear dark in color. 3  The alternating pattern of these bands results in the striated appearance of skeletal muscle. 1 The I-bands (isotropic in polarized light) appear light in color and the A-bands (anisotropic in polarized light) appear dark in color. 2  The alternating pattern of these bands results in the striated appearance of skeletal muscle. 3  The Z-lines (Zwischenschieben) bisect the I-bands.
The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction. Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons
A. Skeletal muscles are composed of separate cells, or fibers, that are attached in parallel to the tendons. B. Individual muscle fibers are covered by the endomysium; bundles of fibers, called fascicles, are covered by the perimysium; and the entire muscle is covered by the epimysium. C. Skeletal muscles are striated. 1. The dark striations are called A bands, and the light regions are called I bands. 
A sarcomere (Greek sarx flesh, meros part) is the basic unit of striated muscle tissue. Skeletal muscles are composed of tubular muscle cells (myocytes called muscle fibers) which are formed in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibers are composed of tubular myofibrils. Myofibrils are composed of repeating sections of sarcomeres, which appear under the microscope as dark and light bands. Sarcomeres are composed of long, fibrous proteins as filaments that slide past each other when a muscle contracts or relaxes.