Legislative Branch. The legislative branch is made up of the two houses of Congress—the Senate and the House of Representatives. The most important duty of the legislative branch is to make laws. Laws are written, discussed and voted on in Congress. There are 100 senators in the Senate, two from each state. Senators are elected by their states and serve six-year terms.
Confidence votes 66.7K. The legislative branch makes the laws. the legislative branch isn't the only one that makes the laws, its also the executive branch. ADDED: The legislative Branch of Government does not make or pass laws, they promulgate rules and regulations, which many times have the force of law. Only the Legislative Branch can pass laws, the Executive Branch ENACTS them. The legislative branch makes the laws. the legislative branch isn't the only one that makes the laws, its also the executive branch
The legislative branch makes the laws.   the legislative branch isn't the only one that makes the laws, its also the executive branch. ADDED: The legislative Branch of Gov … ernment does not make or pass laws, they promulgate rules and regulations, which many times have the force of law.
It is the Legislative Branch of government that makes the laws. The U.S. Congress, composed of the Senate and the House of Representatives, handles that chore in America. Th … is branch of government is different from the Executive Branch and the Judicial Branch of the Federal Government. The legislative branch makes the laws. the legislative branch isn't the only one that makes the laws, its also the executive branch.
The legislative branch is made up of the House and Senate, known collectively as the Congress. Among other powers, the legislative branch makes all laws, declares war, regulates interstate and foreign commerce and controls taxing and spending policies. The following are legislative branch organizations: 114th Congress, 1st Session · The House is not in session. To ensure a separation of powers, the U.S. Federal Government is made up of three branches: legislative, executive and judicial.
Confidence votes 1.4K. It is the Legislative Branch of government that makes the laws. The U.S. Congress, composed of the Senate and the House of Representatives, handles that chore in America. This branch of government is different from the Executive Branch and the Judicial Branch of the Federal Government. the legislative branch isn't the only one that makes the laws, its also the executive branch. ADDED: The legislative Branch of Gov … ernment does not make or pass laws, they promulgate rules and regulations, which many times have the force of law.
Legislative Branch of Government. – The branch of government that makes laws. It is. led by the House of Representatives and the Senate in Michigan. Make. – To introduce, write, and vote on a law. Michigan Hall of Justice. – The headquarters of the judicial branch. It is near the State. Capitol in Lansing. The executive branch enforces the laws. This branch makes sure that people follow the laws. The governor is the head of the executive branch. The executive offices are in the Romney Building.
The President is the head of the executive branch, which makes laws official. The President is elected by the entire country and serves a four-year term. The President approves and carries out laws passed by the legislative branch. He appoints or removes cabinet members and officials. The most important duty of the legislative branch is to make laws. Laws are written, discussed and voted on in Congress. There are 100 senators in the Senate, two from each state. Senators are elected by their states and serve six-year terms.
Legislative Branch of Government – The branch of government that makes laws. It is led by the House of Representatives and the Senate in Michigan. Make – To introduce, write, and vote on a law. Michigan Hall of Justice – The headquarters of the judicial branch. The executive branch enforces the laws. This branch makes sure that people follow the laws. The governor is the head of the executive branch. The executive offices are in the Romney Building.