The Mine & The Park. It's finder's keepers at the Crater of Diamonds State Park in Murfreesboro, Arkansas. The only public diamond mine in the world, Crater of Diamonds offers you a one-of-a-kind adventure-the opportunity to hunt for real diamonds and to keep any you find. Some diamond mining operations also began in the years after the discovery, but for many reasons, shrouded in mystery, lawsuits, fines, bankruptcy and other reasons, they were unsuccessful. Then, in 1952, Millar opened a tourist operation at the mine. He dubbed the site, the Crater of Diamonds..
This is a movie about diamond mining in Sierra Leone. Since the brutal civil war the Sierra Leone diamond industry is known as the source for the so called Blood Diamonds. Diamonds that were mined under forced condition and traded on the illegal markets to purchase weapons. 
A miners cut is a type of diamond cut common in antique jewelry dating back to the 1830s. Many Georgian, Victorian and Edwardian style engagement rings feature this type of cut because it was a popular 19th century jewelry design. The Internet is a good source for antique miner cut diamond rings. The following online retailers sell antique old mine cut diamond rings: 1  Fay Cullen: Fay Cullen generally has a number of antique old mine cut diamond rings for sale.
Canada's First Diamond Mine. The first diamond mine in Canada opened in 1998, nearly eight years after Fipke's discovery. In the span of just a decade, Canada has become the third largest producer of diamonds by value after Botswana and Russia. Nearly two decades ago, a dogged geologist named Charles Fipke was practically down to his last nickel. He and a fellow prospector, Stewart Blusson, had been crisscrossing the vast frozen hinterland of Canada's Northwest Territories for more than 10 years, looking for one of the world's most precious gems: diamonds.
A million diamond diggers in Africa earn less than a dollar a day. Miners are dying in accidents, child labor is widespread, and corrupt leaders are depriving diamond mining communities of funds badly needed for economic development. Poverty. Diamond miners who work in small-scale mining – panning or digging for diamonds – produce about 15% of the world’s diamonds. But their wages do not reflect the value of their work. An estimated one million diamond diggers in Africa earn less than a dollar a day.
Arkansas’s Crater of Diamonds State Park is the only diamond-producing site in the world where the public can search for diamonds. And the policy here is finders, keepers, meaning the diamonds you find are yours to keep. To hunt for diamonds you will search atop a 37 1/2-acre plowed field, the eroded surface of an ancient, gem-bearing volcanic crater. This site was operated privately, and later as a tourist attraction, from 1952 to 1972. In 1972, the State of Arkansas purchased the Crater of Diamonds for development as a state park. The park is open throughout the year except for Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day.
South Africa Coal production (red) and exports (black). Main article: Coal in South Africa § Mining. South Africa is the world's third largest coal exporter, and much of the country's coal is used for power production. (about ~40%) 77% of South Africa's energy needs are provided by coal. South Africa's and the world's biggest diamond miner, De Beers, was funded by baron Nathaniel Mayer Rothschild in 1887, and Cecil Rhodes became the Founding Chairman of the board of directors in 1888.
Among the richest diamond pipes are at Diavik Diamond Mine, which is owned by the Rio Tinto mining group, and Ekati, which is owned by the Australian mining company BHP Billiton. They are both located in the Lac de Gras region, about 120 miles south of the Arctic Circle. Nearly two decades ago, a dogged geologist named Charles Fipke was practically down to his last nickel. He and a fellow prospector, Stewart Blusson, had been crisscrossing the vast frozen hinterland of Canada's Northwest Territories for more than 10 years, looking for one of the world's most precious gems: diamonds.