Texas Police Patrol Officer Salaries. Within Texas there is a lot of variation in Police Patrol Officer salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. 
The average yearly salary for State Trooper in Texas is $43,358. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. In Texas you could potentially make an average income of around $51,009 after several years on the job with increased wages.
Police or Sheriff's Patrol Officer Salary. (United States). The average salary for a Police or Sheriff's Patrol Officer is $44,913 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. $29,591 - $76,611
For State Troopers, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $59K. After two decades in the workforce, the average State Trooper generally earns more than ever; median pay for this group is estimated at $66K. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For State Troopers, more experience in the field does not usually mean bigger paychecks. In this position, someone who has worked for fewer than five years can expect a median salary of $45K.
State Trooper Salary. (United States). Men make up the majority of State Troopers in the United States, and the nationwide average salary in this area lies in the neighborhood of $51K per year. Pay ranges from $34K on the low end to $82K per year on the high end. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For State Troopers, more experience in the field does not usually mean bigger paychecks. In this position, someone who has worked for fewer than five years can expect a median salary of $45K.
The salary increase for about 4,400 state law enforcement officers, 80 percent of whom work for the DPS, averages 20 percent over the next two years, dwarfing the 3 percent pay raise for general state employees. It will cost the state $100 million. Effective Sept. 1, the new pay scale for state-commissioned officers, called Schedule C, will boost that same trooper’s annual salary to almost $76,000 by the end of 2015 — or as much as $89,000 if the officer earns the maximum allowable overtime of 20 hours per month.
Texas Highway Patrol Salaries. Within Texas there is a lot of variation in Highway Patrol salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Texas and surrounding states, click on any one to find Highway Patrol Salaries for that area.
The Austin American-Statesman reports the raise will benefit about 4,400 law-enforcement officers, at a cost of about $100 million. Lawmakers approved the salary hike in the budget after the state auditor found that DPS officers were earning significantly less than officers working in major Texas cities. Currently, a 20-year DPS officer can earn up to $61,793 annually. 
Texas State Trooper Salary Information. The average yearly salary for State Trooper in Texas is $43,358. If you are just beginning to work a new job as a State Trooper in Texas, you could earn a starting pay rate of $35,706 annually. As is true for most jobs and careers, you can expect your hourly pay rate or salary to increase as you gain experience and the longer you are employed with the same employer. In Texas you could potentially make an average income of around $51,009 after several years on the job with increased wages.
$44,000. Average Trooper salaries for job postings in Texas are 3% lower than average Trooper salaries for job postings nationwide. 