During the French Mandate of Lebanon, the Lebanese flag was designed by the president of the Lebanese Renaissance Movement, the late Naoum Mukarzel. It was similar to the tricolour flag of France but with a green cedar (Lebanon Cedar) in the middle. The presence and position of the Cedar in the middle of the flag is directly inspired by the mountains of Lebanon cedar (Cedrus libani). The Cedar is a symbol of holiness, eternity and peace. Emblem of longevity, the cedar of Lebanon has its origin in many biblical references.
The flag of Lebanon (Arabic: علم لبنان ‎) is formed of two horizontal red stripes enveloping a horizontal white stripe. The white stripe is to be two times a red one (ratio 1:2:1)—a Spanish fess. The presence and position of the Cedar in the middle of the flag is directly inspired by the mountains of Lebanon cedar (Cedrus libani). The Cedar is a symbol of holiness, eternity and peace. Emblem of longevity, the cedar of Lebanon has its origin in many biblical references.
Lebanon Flag Picture. Lebanon Flag adopted on. Lebanon Flag dimensions. Lebanon Flag-introduction. The Lebanese flag (علم لبنان‎) is composed of three horizontal stripes, a white stripe between two red ones. The width of the white stripe shall be equal to that of both red stripes. In the center of and occupying one-third of the white stripe is a green cedar tree with its top touching the upper red stripe and its base touching the lower red stripe. Lebanon Flag-Colors. Red : (RGB: 196, 30, 58) (hex code: #C41E3A)
1 The Lebanese flag during the French Mandate: It was similar to the Blue, White and Red French Flag with a green Cedar in the middle, and was designed by the president of the Lebanese Nahda (renaissance) Movement, the late Naoum Mukarzel. 2  The National Flag: White and Red with a cedar in the center. 
At independence, Lebanon used as national flag the French national flag (vertically divided blue-white-red) with a cedar in the middle. On 11 November 1943, street demonstrations took place because the French authorities had jailed Presidents Bechara al Khoury and Riad al-Solh as well as other Ministers. Article 5 – The Lebanese flag is made of red, white and red horizontal stripes, with the cedar in green in the centre of the white stripe. The size of the white stripe is equal to the size of the two red stripes together.
The Lebanese flag is derived from the French tricolor. The cedar was placed in the white of the French flag. When Lebanon pronounced its independence, the men who declared independence drew a color pencil sketch [ image here ]. They got rid of the blue and made the stripes horizontal. Article 5 – The Lebanese flag is made of red, white and red horizontal stripes, with the cedar in green in the centre of the white stripe. The size of the white stripe is equal to the size of the two red stripes together.
The Flag of the Lebanon is constructed of red, white and red horizontal stripes, with a green cedar (tree) in the centre of the white stripe. The width of the white stripe is equal to the width of the two red stripes together. Article 5 – The Lebanese flag is made of red, white and red horizontal stripes, with the cedar in green in the centre of the white stripe. The size of the white stripe is equal to the size
Proportions: 2:3. Lebanese Flag Description: The flag of Lebanon consists of two equal-sized red horizontal stripes that are placed at the top and bottom of the flag. In between the red stripes is a white stripe that is equal in size to the red stripes. In the middle of the flag and white stripe there is an image of a green cedar tree. 
Download Picture of Lebanon Flag Outline for kids to color. The cedar tree touches the red bands on both sides. The colors and the cedar tree have their own significances. Red color signifies bloodshed in freedom struggle, white represents peace and the cedar tree is the symbol of steadiness and immortality. Lebanon Flag. The Lebanon flag has two red bands at the top and at the bottom and in the middle portion of the Lebanon flag there is a white strip. In the middle portion of this white central part of the Lebanese flag there is a fully green cedar tree