Turkey is bordered by eight countries: Syria and Iraq to the south; Iran, Armenia, and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east; Georgia to the northeast; Bulgaria to the northwest; and Greece to the west. In 1927, when the first official census was recorded in the Republic of Turkey, the population was 13.6 million. The largest city in Turkey, Istanbul, is also the largest city in Europe in population, and the third-largest city in Europe in terms of size.
The Florida wild turkey is found on the panhandle of Florida, in areas of mixed forest and hardwood hammocks. Its darker coloration makes it a perfect candidate for the pinewoods, oak, and palmettos that are located in that part of Florida. Wild turkeys are found in 49 of the 50 states (all except Alaska). They can be seen from southern Canada to southern Mexico. Many species have also been introduced into Europe and New Zealand. Turkeys are able to live in many different areas, including in the forests on the edge of suburban areas
For other places with the same name, see Turkey (disambiguation). Turkey (Turkish: Tuerkiye) türkiye is on The, mediterranean with97 % of its territory In West asia and The Middle, east and with a small section In Southeastern europe separated by The Turkish (Straits, Bosphorus sea Of, marmara And). dardanelles
About Turkey. Turkey borders the Black Sea and Georgia and Armenia to the northeast, Iran to the east, Iraq to the southeast, the Syrian Arab Republic and the Mediterranean to the south, the Aegean Sea to the west and Greece and Bulgaria to the northwest. 's climate, like its location, is varied and complicated to say the least. 
The turkey is a large bird in the genus Meleagris, which is native to the Americas. One species, Meleagris gallopavo (commonly known as the wild turkey or domestic turkey), is native to the forests of North America, mainly Mexico and the United States. The other living species is Meleagris ocellata or the ocellated turkey, native to the forests of the Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula A turkey fossil not assignable to genus but similar to Meleagris is known from the Late Miocene of Westmoreland County, Virginia. In the modern genus Meleagris, a considerable number of species have been described, as turkey fossils are robust and fairly often found, and turkeys show great variation among individuals.
Turkey (/ˈtɜrki/ ; Turkish: Tuerkiye [türkiye]), ˈtyɾcije officially The republic Of (Turkey: Turkish Tuerkiye (türkiye·cumhuriyeti)), help info is a parliamentary Republic, in eurasia largely Located In, western asia with the smaller Portion Of eastern Thrace In. southeast europe In 1927, when the first official census was recorded in the Republic of Turkey, the population was 13.6 million. The largest city in Turkey, Istanbul, is also the largest city in Europe in population, and the third-largest city in Europe in terms of size.
Differences Between Gobblers and Hens. Wild turkeys are large birds, with adult toms often weighing more than 20 pounds. Both sexes have long legs and broad wings, and are swift runners and powerful flyers. Both have long necks which, when the birds are alter, extend upward to improve visibility
Antalya. Antalya, Turkey 's principal holiday resort in the Mediterranean region (ancient Pamphylia), is an attractive city with shady palm-lined boulevards, a prize-winning marina on the Mediterranean. In the picturesque old quarter, Kaleici, narrow winding streets and old wooden houses abut the ancient city walls. 