(CBS4) – The historic Stanley Hotel announced the grand opening of the large hedge maze inspired by the Stanley Kubrick movie “The Shining.”. The hotel on Wednesday said the grand opening will be held on Thursday at 1 p.m. on the front lawn of the hotel located at 333 East Wonderview Avenue in Estes Park. “The Maze will serve as homage to the film, which was inspired by author Stephen King’s The Shining, which he wrote after an experience at The Stanley Hotel,” the hotel said.
Estes Park, CO-December 16th, 2014 - The historic Stanley Hotel is excited to announce a public competition to design a 10,100 sq. ft. hedge maze inspired by Stanley Kubrick’s The Shining (1980). The Maze will serve as an homage to the film, which was itself inspired by author Stephen King’s experience at The Stanley Hotel. It also will commemorate the 20 year anniversary of the current ownership of the hotel, which began May 1st, 1994.
(Photo: Courtesy of the Grand Heritage Hotel Group). Stanley Kubrick's film adaptation of “The Shining” features a huge hedge maze. But the actual landscape at the Stanley Hotel -- which inspired Stephen King 's 1977 novel -- has never featured one in its 106-year history. That's about to change. 
You've probably heard of the Stanley Hotel. This century-old landmark in Estes Park, Colorado is the spooky spot that inspired Stephen King to write The Shining after he and his wife stayed there*. Now, you can design a giant hedge maze —inspired by the giant hedge maze in The Shining —on the Stanley Hotel grounds. The Stanley Hotel Public Hedge Maze contest is now open for submissions. The goal is simple: Design a 61,500-square-foot hedge maze inspired by the hedge maze in Stanley Kubrick's movie, and use 1,600 to 2,000 Aspen currant hedge bushes to do it. The hotel has provided a simple template (PDF) as well as a very simple example of what a maze design might look like.
This whole place is such an enormous maze.. Share. The iconic Stanley Hotel in Estes Park, Colorado is holding a public design competition to create a 10,100 sq. ft. hedge maze inspired by Stanley Kubrick 's 1980 film The Shining. 
'Shining' hotel finally opens hedge maze inspired by Kubrick's film. The Stanley Hotel, model for The Overlook, has added a diminutive maze to its grounds. The new maze at the Stanley Hotel, the place that inspired Stephen King's 'The Shining' Credit: The Stanley Hotel.
The movie The Shining was based on the Stephen King novel of the same name, which was inspired by The Stanley Hotel in Colorado. 
The Stanley Hotel announces International Design Contest for the hedge maze inspired by the one in Kubrick’s “The Shining” (1980). The Maze will serve as an homage to the film, which was itself inspired by author Stephen King’s experience at The Stanley Hotel. It also will commemorate the 20 year anniversary of the current ownership of the hotel, which began May 1st, 1994.
It took a crew of around 60 people about a month and a half to complete the maze. It was inspired by Stanley Kubrick's 1980 film 'The Shining,' which is based on a Stephen King novel of the same name. King wrote the book after an experience at the Stanley Hotel. The Estes Park landmark never actually had a maze and Kubrick never actually filmed The Shining at the Stanley, opting for other locations and soundstages instead. The maze is not featured in King's original novel. The hedge maze is comprised of 820 Juniper bushes that will grow to be about 5 feet tall.