1 Restoring a normal heart rhythm. 2  This is called rhythm control. 3  Rhythm control allows the atria and ventricles to work together to efficiently pump blood to the body. 4  Treating any underlying disorder that's causing or raising the risk of AF—for example, hyperthyroidism (too much thyroid hormone). Another procedure to restore a normal heart rhythm is called maze surgery. For this procedure, the surgeon makes small cuts or burns in the atria. These cuts or burns prevent the spread of disorganized electrical signals.
1 The electrical activity spreads through the walls of the atria and causes them to contract. 2  This forces blood into the ventricles. 3  The SA node sets the rate and rhythm of your heartbeat. 4  Normal heart rhythm is often called normal sinus rhythm because the SA (sinus) node fires regularly. 
Heart Rhythm Disorders Definition and Overview. A heart rhythm disorder is an abnormal variation from the normal heartbeat. Heart rhythm disorders involve abnormalities of one or more of the following: heart rate, regularity of beats, sites where electrical impulses originate, or sequence of activation of heartbeats. Normally, the heart beats about 60 to 100 times a minute. This state is called normal sinus rhythm or normal rhythm or normal heartbeat.. Depending upon the needs of the body, it may beat faster (sinus tachycardia) due to stress or slower (sinus bradycardia) such as during sleep.
In normal sinus rhythm, a resting heart rate of below 60 bpm is called bradycardia and a rate of above 90 bpm is called tachycardia. 
Normal Sinus Rhythm. Description. A normal heart rhythm is called normal sinus rhythm (NSR for short). An NSR will have a heart rate (this is the same as the pulse) between 50 and 100 beats per minute and a normal impulse formation from the SA node (P wave). Also, all the waveforms must be of a normal shape with no ST changes. In children, normal heart rate ranges are much higher. Infants to 1 year have a normal range to 180 beats per minute, 1-3 years to 150 beats per minute, 4-10 years to 130 beats per minute and 110 beats per minute to age 16.
In the above example, the rate varies slightly from 72-75 beats per minute, the PR interval is .16 seconds, the QRS is .08 seconds and the QT interval is .34 seconds. Also, all the wave forms are normal. Each individual’s normal resting heart rate will vary, and can range from 40 to 120, higher in young children. Also, all the waveforms must be of a normal shape with no ST changes. In children, normal heart rate ranges are much higher. Infants to 1 year have a normal range to 180 beats per minute, 1-3 years to 150 beats per minute, 4-10 years to 130 beats per minute and 110 beats per minute to age 16.
Sinus rhythm: The normal regular rhythm of the heart set by the natural pacemaker of the heart called the sinoatrial (or sinus) node. Sinus arrhythmia refers to the normal increase in heart rate that occurs during inspiration (when you breathe in). This is a normal response and is more accentuated in children than adults. Sinus tachycardia refers to a fast heartbeat (tachycardia) because of rapid firing of the sinoatrial (
The normal heart rhythm (normal sinus rhythm) shows the electrical activity in the heart is following the normal pathway. The rhythm is regular and the node is normal (about 50 to 100 beats per minute). Tachycardia: fast heart rhythm (greater than 100 beats per minute). 
Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias). Arrhythmias are abnormal beats. The term arrhythmia refers to any change from the normal sequence of electrical impulses, causing abnormal heart rhythms. Arrhythmias may be completely harmless or life-threatening. 