A goblet cell is a glandular, modified simple columnar epithelial cell whose function is to secrete gel-forming mucins, the major components of mucus. They are found inside the trachea, bronchi, and larger bronchioles in the respiratory tract, small intestines, the large intestine, and conjunctiva in the upper eyelid. Goblet cells are a source of mucus in tears and secrete different types of mucins onto the ocular surface, especially in the conjunctiva.
Goblet Cells. Goblet cells: cells within the epithelium of the respiratory system which secrete mucus in order to remove dirt and bacteria from (and so cleanse) the air entering the lungs. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 12 November 2006, at 16:42.This page has been accessed 12,026 times.
Goblet cells reside throughout the length of the small and large intestine and are responsible for the production and maintenance of the protective mucus blanket by synthesizing and secreting high-molecular-weight glycoproteins known as mucins. Because of the unique nature of this highly polarized exocrine cell, the maturational reorganization of the cytoarchitecture and the cellular mechanisms by which goblet cells secrete their products are discussed.
To elucidate the role of goblet cells in the biology of the intestinal tract, an overview of the physiological implications of the mucus gel is presented, including a concise review of the products secreted by the cell. 
To elucidate the role of goblet cells in the biology of the intestinal tract, an overview of the physiological implications of the mucus gel is presented, including a concise review of the products secreted by the cell. Because of the unique nature of this highly polarized exocrine cell, the maturational reorganization of the cytoarchitecture and the cellular mechanisms by which goblet cells secrete their products are discussed.
Goblet cells are part of the epithelium lining of lungs and intestines of mammals. They secrete mucus that helps carry away body wastes. Goblet cells are also part of the epidermis of fish, giving fish scales a slippery coating of mucus. A gland goblet cell produces a slimy material called mucus. The mucus moves out of the cells and onto the inner lining of the gullet (oesophagus). Here the mucus acts like a lubricant, cutting down friction between food and the lining of the gullet.
Caption: Goblet cell (yellow) in the mucosal lining of the small intestine (part of the digestive tract). A goblet cell secretes the mucus to protect the lining of the intestine and helps neutralize stomach acid. Inside the goblets cells are many mucigen granules (purple). When these are released into the intestine they will combine with water to form mucin, the main constituent of mucus. Surrounding the goblet cell are columnar epithelial cells (green cell membrane outline; light purple nucleus; red mitochondria).
Goblet Cells. The talent of goblet cells is to secrete mucus, a viscous fluid composed primarily of highly glycosylated proteins called mucins suspended in a solution of electrolytes. Secretion of Mucus. Secretion of mucus from goblet cells is elicited primarily by irritating stimuli rather than in response to hormones. The lumen of the intestinal tract inevitably contains numerous irritants, and in the lung, such things as dust and smoke are potent inducers of goblet cell secretion.
The goblet cells mainly use the merocrine method of secretion, secreting vesicles into a duct, but may use apocrine methods, budding off their secretions, when under stress. The goblet cell is highly polarised with the nucleus and other organelles concentrated at the base of the cell. The remainder of the cell's cytoplasm is occupied by membrane-bound secretory granules containing mucin. They are found inside the trachea, bronchi, and larger bronchioles in the respiratory tract, small intestines, the large intestine, and conjunctiva in the upper eyelid. Goblet cells are a source of mucus in tears and secrete different types of mucins onto the ocular surface, especially in the conjunctiva.