Toronto is the most diverse city on the planet and has more nationalities living in it than there are countries in the world today. Visible minorities are not not minorities, they make up more than %50 of Canadas population. Also, nearly %100 of Canadian population growth is that of immigration. The common term for a single mosaic piece it tessera, but can also  be called abaciscus or abaculus. Each piece is made of a single  small tile, which is usually cube shaped … . Tesseras are usually made  from clay, ceramic, stone, glass, or mirror.
1 What Americans call Canadian bacon is named back bacon in Canada, or, if it is coated in cornmeal or ground peas, cornmeal bacon or peameal bacon. 2  What most Americans call a candy bar is usually known as a chocolate bar (as in the United Kingdom). Geikie, a Scottish-born Canadian, reflected the Anglocentric attitude that would be prevalent in Canada for the next hundred years when he referred to the language as a corrupt dialect, in comparison to what he considered the proper English spoken by immigrants from Britain.
The Iroquois used the word kanata to tell Cartier about the route to the village of Stadacona. They referred to it by using the Huron-Iroquois word for settlement or village. Cartier used the word for the entire area, and the name Canada was soon applied to the area north of the St. Lawrence River. Cartier referred to the river as the riviere de Canada, and this name was in use until the early 17th century. While the region was called New France, the areas along the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the river were known under the name Canada. 
Canada is a federation composed of ten provinces and three territories. In turn, these may be grouped into four main regions: Western Canada, Central Canada, Atlantic Canada, and Northern Canada (Eastern Canada refers to Central Canada and Atlantic Canada together). Canada stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west; to the north lies the Arctic Ocean. Greenland is to the northeast. By total area (including its waters), Canada is the second-largest country in the world, after Russia.
Canada's long and complex relationship with the United States has had a significant impact on its economy and culture. Canada is a developed country and one of the wealthiest in the world, with the tenth highest nominal per capita income globally, and the eighth highest ranking in the Human Development Index. Canada stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west; to the north lies the Arctic Ocean. Greenland is to the northeast. By total area (including its waters), Canada is the second-largest country in the world, after Russia.
Canadian English (CanE, CE, en-CA) is the variety of English spoken in Canada. Geikie, a Scottish-born Canadian, reflected the Anglocentric attitude that would be prevalent in Canada for the next hundred years when he referred to the language as a corrupt dialect, in comparison to what he considered the proper English spoken by immigrants from Britain.
Canada (/ˈkaenədə/) ˈkænədə is a, country consisting of ten provinces and three, territories in the northern part of the continent Of North. america Canada stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west; to the north lies the Arctic Ocean. Greenland is to the northeast. By total area (including its waters), Canada is the second-largest country in the world, after Russia.
The Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) is a Canada-wide system designed to give employers and workers information on hazardous materials in the workplace. 
Canada is a federal parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy, Queen Elizabeth II being the current head of state. Canada stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west; to the north lies the Arctic Ocean. Greenland is to the northeast. By total area (including its waters), Canada is the second-largest country in the world, after Russia.
English is the first language, or mother tongue, of approximately 19 million Canadians or 58% of the population, which is relatively low due to strong French (c. 22%) and allophone (non-English, non-French, 21%) population segments (based on 2011 Census data). Geikie, a Scottish-born Canadian, reflected the Anglocentric attitude that would be prevalent in Canada for the next hundred years when he referred to the language as a corrupt dialect, in comparison to what he considered the proper English spoken by immigrants from Britain.