If so, the qualified dividends are taxed at the same rate as long-term capital gains. That drops the qualified dividend tax rate down to 20%, 15%, or even 0% depending on your marginal tax rate, which you can find here 1  : 0% if you fall into the 10% or 15% bracket. 2  15% if you fall into the 25% to 35% bracket. Dividends tend to get lumped as one single form of investment income. But the IRS doesn’t see it that way, dividing the tax on dividends into two types: ordinary and qualified dividends.
Report your qualified dividends on line 9b of Form 1040 or 1040A. Use the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet in the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040a to figure your total tax amount. Use the Schedule D worksheet to figure your tax. Treat qualified dividends (found in box 1b of your 1099-DIV) as ordinary dividends, which are subject to the zero to 15 percent tax rate that applies to capital gains.
In the U.S. a qualified dividend is a type of dividend to which capital gains tax rates are applied. These tax rates are usually lower than regular income tax rates. In contrast, ordinary dividends that do not qualify for this tax preference are taxed at an individual's normal income tax rate. The qualified dividend tax rates are 0%, 15%, and beginning in 2013, a 20% maximum tax. Qualified dividends are subject to the 0% rate for taxpayers in the 10% and 15% tax brackets. For taxpayers in the 25%, 33% and 35% tax brackets, the tax rate on qualified dividends is 15%. For 2013 and beyond, a 20% rate applies if the regular tax rate is 39.6%
Dividends can be classified either as ordinary or qualified. Whereas ordinary dividends are taxable as ordinary income, qualified dividends that meet certain requirements are taxed at lower capital gain rates. For a definition of qualified dividends, refer to Publication 550, Investment Income and Expenses. Corporations pay most dividends in cash. However, they may also pay them as stock of another corporation or as any other property. You also may receive dividends through your interest in a partnership, an estate, a trust, a subchapter S corporation or from an association that is taxable as a corporation.
Qualified dividend. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Qualified dividends, as defined by the United States Internal Revenue Code, are ordinary dividends that meet specific criteria to be taxed at the lower long-term capital gains tax rate rather than at higher tax rate for an individual's ordinary income. For dividends that do not meet the above criteria, the effective qualified dividend tax rate is determined by the date on which the dividend was paid and the individual's ordinary income tax bracket.
A qualified dividend is a type of dividend that is taxed at the capital gains tax rate. Generally speaking, most regular dividends from U.S. companies with normal company structures (corporations) are qualified. For individuals, estates, and trusts, qualified dividends are taxed at the current capital gains rate of 15%. For individuals whose income tax rate is 10% or 15%, then the capital gains tax rate is zero. 
Distributions that qualify as a return of capital are not dividends. A return of capital is a return of some or all of your investment in the stock of the company. A return of capital reduces the basis of your stock. Corporations pay most dividends in cash. However, they may also pay them as stock of another corporation or as any other property. You also may receive dividends through your interest in a partnership, an estate, a trust, a subchapter S corporation or from an association that is taxable as a corporation.
Qualified dividends are the ordinary dividends subject to the same 0%, 15%, or 20% maximum... Publication 17 - Your Federal Income Tax (For Individuals) - How To Report Dividend Income. Qualified dividends. Report qualified dividends (Form 1099-DIV, box 1b) on line 9b of Form 1040 or Form 1040A.... 