Alexander Graham Bell, a Scottish-born inventor, scientist, philanthropist and teacher of the deaf is the person most widely credited as the inventor of the electric telephone. On March 7th 1876 he became the first to receive a patent for this device, and at that time resided in Salem, Massachusetts. Alexander Graham Bell conceived of the telephone at his summer home in Brantford, Ontario and physically created his first phone in Boston, Massachusetts (where, he said, it was ' born '). This was a result of his research into improving the telegraph system.
The phone was invented in 1889 by Bell. The cell phone idea began in the 1930's, but in 1947 Bell Labs made a cell type phone. The first cell phone inventor id given to Dr. Martin Cooper of Motorola in 1974. This phone was sold to the government. In 1974 Dr. Martin Cooper is given credit … for the cell phone that is most like the ones we have today. He was working for Motorola at the time. The phone was only for government use and in 1984 it was sold to the public for the first time. The early cell phones were large, heavy, and copied land line phones in style.
Cell phones were invented by Martin Cooper in 1973, who was working for Motorola at the time. His was the first design that was practical and was truly ‘mobile’ (car phones have previously been invented-but they could only be used in a car). The first commercially available cell phone was not sold until six years later (in 1979).
The first practical hand-held cell phone was invented by Motorola, an American company, in 1973. Dr. Martin Cooper, an American born in Chicago, is the inventor listed on the US patent that was used to register that device. In 1974 Dr. Martin Cooper is given credit … for the cell phone that is most like the ones we have today. He was working for Motorola at the time. The phone was only for government use and in 1984 it was sold to the public for the first time. The early cell phones were large, heavy, and copied land line phones in style.
1 Cooper is also the first person to make a call on a cell phone. 2  He called a rival, Dr Joel S Engel, who was also working on inventing a cell phone. 3  He made the call in New York City, to the amazement of people who were passing by! His was the first design that was practical and was truly ‘mobile’ (car phones have previously been invented-but they could only be used in a car). The first commercially available cell phone was not sold until six years later (in 1979).
Dr Martin Cooper, a former general manager for the systems division at Motorola, is considered the inventor of the first portable handset and the first person to make a call on a portable cell phone in April 1973. The first call he made was to his rival, Joel Engel, Bell Labs head of research. 
Answers. Best Answer: Martin Cooper-Inventor of the cellphone Martin Cooper-Inventor Of The Cellphone ... handset and the first person to make a call on a portable cell phone in April 1973. ...www.cellular.co.za/cellphone_inventor... Source(s):
Alexander Graham Bell is given credit by historians with the invention of the traditional telephone in 1876. Less than three decades later, on December 23 rd, 2000, Reginald Fessenden was able to make the world’s first wireless phone call. When Dr. Cooper made the call, Dr. Engel was standing on the street near the Manhattan Hilton hotel while there were a fair number of media personnel and press nearby to observe the event. After making the call, the first cell phone patent was granted on October 17 th, 1973.
Dr. Martin Cooper is the person credited with both inventing the modern cell phone as well as making the first cell phone call in New York City, New York in April 1973. A related invention is the cave radio phone invented by Nathan Stubblefield who was awarded a patent for the idea in the early 20 th Century (1908). When Dr. Cooper made the call, Dr. Engel was standing on the street near the Manhattan Hilton hotel while there were a fair number of media personnel and press nearby to observe the event. After making the call, the first cell phone patent was granted on October 17 th, 1973.