List the special adaptations which make this phylum successful on earth. Despite their very different appearances such familiar invertebrates as chitons, clams, snails, and octopuses are all mollusks, members of the phylum mollusca. The largest and most diverse class of mollusks is Gastropoda, which includes about 75,000 species of snails, slugs, abalones, nudibranchs, and conches. The name gastropoda means stomach-foot. Most gastropods have a single shell, or valve, and so are called univalves.
I. Unifying Characteristics. 1  80,000 species total (2nd largest phylum, Arthropods come first). 2  Body of Foot, Visceral Mass, Mantle and Shell (exoskeleton). 3  Mouth with Radula. 4  Protostomes, Bilateral, Tripoblastic, Reduced Coelom. 5  Respiratory by gills or lungs. 6  Sexes separate usually. 
Though the modern molluscs show quite a wide degree of adaptable variability in form, there are several basic anatomical characteristics that can be found in all or most of them. The body is divided into two functional regions, the head-foot and the visceral lump. 4)Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus. 5)Body monomeric and highly variable in form, may possess a dorsal or lateral shells of protein and calcareous spicules. 6)Has a nervous system with a circum-oesophagal ring, ganglia and paired nerve chords.
1. Explain the classification and the phylogeny of each phyla. Despite their very different appearances such familiar invertebrates as chitons, clams, snails, and octopuses are all mollusks, members of the phylum mollusca. The largest and most diverse class of mollusks is Gastropoda, which includes about 75,000 species of snails, slugs, abalones, nudibranchs, and conches. The name gastropoda means stomach-foot. Most gastropods have a single shell, or valve, and so are called univalves.
Arthropods are invertebrates, which means their bodies do not have internal bones for support. To compensate for this, they produce a hard exoskeleton made of chitin, a mixture of lipids, carbohydrates and protein, which covers and protects their bodies like a suit of armor. A lobster's exoskeleton, segmented body and jointed appendages are clearly visible. Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Arthropods, members of the phylum Arthropoda, are a diverse group of animals including insects, crustaceans, spiders, scorpions and centipedes.
2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body without cavity. 4)Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus. 5)Body monomeric and highly variable in form, may possess a dorsal or lateral shells of protein and calcareous spicules. 6)Has a nervous system with a circum-oesophagal ring, ganglia and paired nerve chords. 7)Has an open circulatory system with a heart and an aorta
Coelom. Nearly all annelids have a fluid-filled cavity between the outer body wall and the gut, and this is referred to as a coelom (Figure 1). The coelom is often used as a storage area for gametes and acts as a hydrostatic skeleton for locomotion. 2
5 Characteristics of an Arthropod. A lobster's exoskeleton, segmented body and jointed appendages are clearly visible. Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Arthropods, members of the phylum Arthropoda, are a diverse group of animals including insects, crustaceans, spiders, scorpions and centipedes. However, the members of this phylum, despite their incredible diversity and sheer numbers, share a number of important distinguishing characteristics
The strongest evidence for the common ancestry of mollusks and annelids is the characteristic larval form they share. In both groups the first stage of larval development is a pear-shaped larva called trochophore. Cilia project from both ends of the trochophore and circle the middle. The largest and most diverse class of mollusks is Gastropoda, which includes about 75,000 species of snails, slugs, abalones, nudibranchs, and conches. The name gastropoda means stomach-foot. Most gastropods have a single shell, or valve, and so are called univalves.
Arthropods have all of these characteristics: Not all of these characteristics are unique to arthropods, but the combination makes an arthropod, and all must be present. 1  The body is divided into segments. 2  Paired and jointed appendages (legs, antennae, claws, and external mouth parts). 3  Exoskeleton (hard outer covering made of chitin and no internal bones). The genus Romalea is a large grasshopper common in the southeastern United States. Insects have three body regions (head, thorax, & abdomen), 3 pairs of legs attached to the thorax, a single pair of antenna attached to the head, mouthparts adapted for chewing or sucking, and two pairs of wings.