ATSEL (אצל): Hebrew name meaning noble.. In the bible, this is the name of a place near Jerusalem, and a descendant of Saul. AVDON (עבדוֹן): Variant form of Hebrew Abdown, meaning servant, worshiper.. In the bible, this is the name of several characters, including one of the judges who ruled over Israel. ENOWSH (אנוֹש): Hebrew name meaning man; human being.. In the bible, this is the name of a son of Seth. EPHER (עפר): Hebrew name meaning calf or gazelle.. In the bible, this is the name of several characters, including a son of Ezra.
BOSMAT: Variant spelling of Hebrew Bosmath, meaning spice or sweet smelling.. BOSMATH (בשמת): Hebrew name meaning spice or sweet smelling.. In the bible, this is the name of a wife of Esau, and a daughter of Solomon. TSIBYA (צביא): Hebrew name meaning a female gazelle.. In the bible, this is the name of a Benjamite. TSIBYAH (צביה): Hebrew name meaning a female gazelle.. In the bible, this is the name of the mother of King Joash.
TSALMOWN (צלמוֹן): Hebrew name meaning shady.. In the bible, this is the name of one of king David's warriors. TSELOPHCHAD (צלפחד): Hebrew name meaning first rupture; fracture, taken to mean first-born.. In the bible, this is the name of a member of the tribe Manasseh. ENOWSH (אנוֹש): Hebrew name meaning man; human being.. In the bible, this is the name of a son of Seth. EPHER (עפר): Hebrew name meaning calf or gazelle.. In the bible, this is the name of several characters, including a son of Ezra.
SHELUMIYEL (שלוּמיאל): Hebrew name meaning friend of God.. In the bible, this is the name of a prince of the tribe of Simeon. SHEM (שם): Hebrew name meaning conspicuous position, name, renown, sigma.. In the bible, this is the name of a son of Noah. ENOWSH (אנוֹש): Hebrew name meaning man; human being.. In the bible, this is the name of a son of Seth. EPHER (עפר): Hebrew name meaning calf or gazelle.. In the bible, this is the name of several characters, including a son of Ezra.
MORDECHAI מָרְדֳכַי m Hebrew. Hebrew form of MORDECAI. MOSES מֹשֶׁה m English, Jewish, Biblical, Biblical Latin. From the Hebrew name מֹשֶׁה (Mosheh) which is most likely derived from Egyptian mes meaning son, but could also possibly mean deliver in Hebrew ... RONIT (2) רוֹנִית f Hebrew. Strictly feminine form of RON (2). ROTEM רוֹתֶם m & f Hebrew. From the name of a desert plant (species Retama raetam), possibly derived from Hebrew רְתֹם (retom) meaning to bind.
In the bible, this is the name of two places, and the name of a son of Meonothai. OPRAH: Feminine variant spelling of Hebrew unisex Ophrah, meaning fawn.. ORA (אוֹרה): Hebrew name meaning light.. Compare with another form of Ora. TSIBYA (צביא): Hebrew name meaning a female gazelle.. In the bible, this is the name of a Benjamite. TSIBYAH (צביה): Hebrew name meaning a female gazelle.. In the bible, this is the name of the mother of King Joash.
Derived from the name of the Jordan river in Israel, which is derived from yarad meaning descend or flow down. KAUFFMANN German, Jewish. Variant of KAUFMAN. KAUFMAN German, Jewish. Means merchant in German. From the German name for Horovice, a town in the Central Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. JAEGER Jäger, German. Jewish From Middle High german(jeger) e meaning. HUNTER (jordan) 2. Jewish derived from the name of The jordan river In, israel which is derived from yarad meaning descend or flow. down
Hebrew Baby Names. This list of Hebrew baby names has thousands of names for you to choose from, together with their meanings. You can rate your favorite names add your comments, browse or search and use the most popular baby names tool to find out which are the most popular baby names among our user
Means lion in Hebrew. LAZER לֵײזֶער m Yiddish. Yiddish form of ELIEZER. LEAH לֵאָה f English, Hebrew, Biblical, Biblical Hebrew. From the Hebrew name לֵאָה (Le'ah) which was probably derived from the Hebrew word לְאָה (le'ah) meaning weary ... [more]. LEEBA לִיבָא f Yiddish. Means beloved in Yiddish. LEV (2) לֵב m Hebrew. Means heart in Hebrew. LEVI לֵוִי m Hebrew, English, Dutch, Biblical, Biblical Latin. Means attached in Hebrew ... Hebrew form of ABRAHAM. AVRAM אַבְרָם m Hebrew, Biblical Hebrew. Hebrew form of ABRAHAM. AVRUM אַבְֿרוּם m Yiddish. Yiddish form of ABRAHAM. AYAL אַיָּל m Hebrew. Means stag, hart in Hebrew. AYALA אַיָּלָה f Hebrew. Means doe, gazelle, hind