Thus, a module, like a vector space, is an additive abelian group; a product is defined between elements of the ring and elements of the module that is distributive over the addition operation of each parameter and is compatible with the ring multiplication. A module is called a cyclic module if it is generated by one element. Free. A free R-module is a module that has a basis, or equivalently, one that is isomorphic to a direct sum of copies of the ring R. These are the modules that behave very much like vector spaces.
(1) In software, a module is a part of a program. Programs are composed of one or more independently developed modules that are not combined until the program is linked. A single module can contain one or several routines. (2) In hardware, a module is a self-contained component.
Modules are lightweight and flexible extensions used for page rendering. These modules are often “boxes” arranged around a component on a typical page. A well-known example is the login module. Modules are assigned per menu item, so you can decide to show or hide (for example) the login module depending on which page (menu item) the user is currently on.
module. n. 1. (Computer Science) a self-contained unit or item, such as an assembly of electronic components and associated wiring or a segment of computer software, which itself performs a defined task and can be linked with other such units to form a larger system. module-a self-contained component (unit or item) that is used in combination with other components. cartridge-a module designed to be inserted into a larger piece of equipment; he loaded a cartridge of fresh tape into the tape deck.
1 In mathematics, the term can be used in several different ways. 2  A module over a ring is a generalization of the notion of vector space over a field. 3  Modular lattices are partially ordered sets which generalize the order structure of submodules. The meaning of the word, however, can vary somewhat by context: 1  In biology, modularity is the concept that organisms or metabolic pathways are composed of modules. 2  In construction, modules are a bundle of redundant project components that are produced en masse prior to installation.
A module taking its coefficients in a ring is called a module over, or a R-module. Modules are the basic tool of homological algebra. Examples of modules include the set of integers, the cubic lattice in dimensions, and the group ring of a group. is a module over itself. It is closed under addition and subtraction (although it is sufficient to require closure under subtraction). A module is abstractly very similar to a vector space, although in modules, coefficients are taken in rings that are much more general algebraic objects than the fields used in vector spaces.
A module is a portable executable file, such as type.dll or application.exe, consisting of one or more classes and interfaces. There may be multiple namespaces contained in a single module, and a namespace may span multiple modules. 
vs. Super Micro SuperBlade. A module is a separate unit of software or hardware. Typical characteristics of modular components include portability, which allows them to be used in a variety of systems, and interoperability, which allows them to function with the components of other systems. The term was first used in architecture. 2) In computer hardware and electronics, a module is a relatively compact unit in a larger device or arrangement that is designed to be separately installed, replaced, or serviced. For example, a single in-line memory module is a unit of random access memory (RAM) that you can add to a personal computer.