Max Wertheimer (April 15, 1880 – October 12, 1943) was an Austro-Hungarian-born psychologist who was one of the three founders of Gestalt psychology, along with Kurt Koffka and Wolfgang Koehler. Köhler he is known for his, Book Productive, thinking and for conceiving the phi phenomenon as part of his work In gestalt. psychology Max Wertheimer began the formal founding of Gestalt psychology in 1910 as he began experiments on the phi phenomenon. He published these experiments in a paper titled Experimental Studies on the Perception of Movement. The phi phenomenon is apparent movement caused by alternating light positions.
Medical Definition of PHI PHENOMENON. : apparent motion resulting from an orderly sequence of stimuli (as lights flashed in rapid succession a short distance apart on a sign) without any actual motion being presented to the eye—compare apparent motion. phi phenomenon. noun \ˈfī-\. : apparent motion resulting from an orderly sequence of stimuli (as lights flashed in rapid succession a short distance apart on a sign) without any actual motion being presented to the eye—compare apparent motion. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about phi phenomenon.
Posted on by admin. The phi phenomenon is an illusion where one perceives a continuous motion in separate objects displayed rapidly in succession. The phenomenom was identified by Max Wertheimer in his 1912 paper ‘Experimental Studies of the Perception of Motion’. Films and animation are examples of the phi phenomenon. 
A definition of the term pragnanz is presented. It is a theory in psychology related to organization defined by the German psychologist Max Wertheimer. Wertheimer stated that the perception of experienced forms tends to form a structure, and is the simplest available. 1  stepwise phenomenon Psychology. // 2  Dictionary of Theories;2002, p504
Definition of PHI PHENOMENON. : apparent motion resulting from an orderly sequence of stimuli (as lights flashed in rapid succession a short distance apart on a sign) without any actual motion being presented to the eye. ADVERTISEMENT. noun \ˈfī-\. phi phenomenon. noun \ˈfī-\. : apparent motion resulting from an orderly sequence of stimuli (as lights flashed in rapid succession a short distance apart on a sign) without any actual motion being presented to the eye—compare apparent motion. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about phi phenomenon.
In the phi phenomenon, a sequence of images causes us to perceive a movement sensation. The phi phenomenon is the optical illusion of perceiving a series of still images, when viewed in rapid succession, as continuous motion. Max Wertheimer defined this phenomenon in 1912. The phi phenomenon is similar to beta movement in that both cause sensation of movement. However, the phi phenomenon is an apparent movement caused by luminous impulses in sequence, whereas beta movement is an apparent movement caused by luminous stationary impulses.
phi-phenomenon. n, pl-na (-nə). 1. (Psychology) the illusion that when two lights are rapidly turned on and off in succession something appears to move backwards and forwards between them while the lights stay stationary. 
A definition of the term phi phenomenon is presented. It is a theory in psychology proposed by German psychologists Kurt Koffka and Max Wertheimer. It refers to a form of apparent movement produced when two stationary lights are flashed successively. It is a theory in psychology related to organization defined by the German psychologist Max Wertheimer. Wertheimer stated that the perception of experienced forms tends to form a structure, and is the simplest available. 1  stepwise phenomenon Psychology.