The importing of many a mallacht (the Irish word for a curse) from Gaelic to English has added colour, even when more sinister than funny. I have put together a list of traditional and funny Irish curses below. I smile when Americans refer to the use of 'f@*k' as the F-bomb because of its effect in polite circles. Though not by origin a Gaelic word, in Irish circles the use of the word is commonplace and casual, to the point of rendering it meaningless at times. But there is a long history of more 'creative' or 'imaginative' cursing in Ireland
You can get a curse but not catch one. You can get one by doing bad things for your whole lifetime. Magical curses are usually the result of some inappropriate action, or beca … use someone else has a grudge against you. 3 people found this useful. 1 The Best Cheap Brands of Irish Whiskey Irish whiskey is a drink that many people consume on a daily basis. 2  If you enjoy Irish whiskey but are looking for a less expensive option, then these brands of cheap Irish w…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
Geis in Irish Mythology [edit]. A geis can be compared with a curse or, paradoxically, a gift. If someone under a geis violates the associated taboo, the infractor will suffer dishonor or even death. On the other hand, the observing of one's geasa is believed to bring power. Often it is women who place geasa upon men. In Irish mythology and folklore, a geis (/ˈɡɛʃ/ ; [ˈɟɛʃ] ; plural geasa) is an idiosyncratic taboo, whether of obligation or prohibition, similar to being under a vow or spell. The Scottish Gaelic spelling  geas  is also common.
Island Ireland is sponsored by our online Irish shop: Bringing Irish goods to America... winner of Yahoo's Top Service award Irish Toasts Irish Blessings and Prayers Irish Proverbs in English Irish / English Proverbs. Drink is the curse of the land. You can accomplish more with a kind word and a shillelagh than you can with just a kind word. In every land, hardness is in the north of it, softness in the south, industry in the east, and fire and inspiration in the west. of a useless fellow He's fit to mind mice at a crossroads.
KIERAN: It’s the same in Northern Ireland. With the Catholics and the bloody Protestants…. Marty Casella, who is only half-Irish — his mother’s side of the family, the Gallaghers — had never heard of the Irish Curse until some friends in Los Angeles started joking about it. The fifth is this church’s calming 50-ish Father Kevin himself (Roderick Hill), who turns out to be no less haunted than all the others by the Irish Curse. Here’s a smidgin of it: RICK: I think a lot of guys are really screwed up about the size of their dicks.
In America, bollocks is a vaguely British term of no particular vulgar meaning. If you'd use it at all, it would likely be more of a comic-book-like verb, and likely spelled bollix.. In European English, bollocks is distinctly vulgar. In Ireland, it's just the way that people talk. Cunt, in Irish-English, is the same as it is in Euro-English. Its primary use is vulgar, but not obscene. It is not primarily a rude term for vagina nor bad woman, and its subject is usually not feminine at all. Cunt is just an irreverent way of refering to a fellow.
Playwright Martin Casella states the issue of small equipment is one that haunts Irish men, and this was the inspiration for his off-Broadway play, The Irish Curse. 1 The Best Cheap Brands of Irish Whiskey Irish whiskey is a drink that many people consume on a daily basis. 2  If you enjoy Irish whiskey but are looking for a less expensive option, then these brands of cheap Irish w…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
Masthead. The Irish Curse is a comedy, but I wish it wasn't. It's the story of a support group for men afflicted with the Irish Curse. For those of you unfamiliar with the term, the legend goes that Irish men have exceptionally small penises. The group in Martin Casella's play meets every week, in a Catholic church in Brooklyn
Email. Ginger Crowley, a flame-haired Irish-American, says something called the Celtic Curse stands between her and raising a pint of Guinness this St. Patrick's Day. 