Walking into a body shop without a handle on how to read a repair estimate can be pretty daunting. We want you to know exactly what's involved in the repair process, so we've compiled a few common elements of repair estimates to build your knowledge-before you step into a body shop. Repair estimates vary depending on several factors including labor rates, parts prices and the amount of time necessary to perform certain repairs, but the main elements are the initial estimate, the supplemental estimate and an agreed price.
Whether your need is to replace the battery, change brake pads or get a complex service job done, we can let you know what your repairs should really cost and give you details on the costs of labor and parts. At DriverSide, you can get free car repair advice from professional auto mechanics. Whether your question is about maintenance, repairs, or another car topic, pose a question and you'll get an answer.
RepairPal's estimate provides a range for the overall cost as well as breaks down ranges for labor and parts. The AutoMD repair estimate is more comprehensive, also containing the exact time estimate for the car repair as well as the labor rate and parts costs at a dealer and an independent mechanic. As a result, it makes it easier for the consumer to make adjustments if the labor rate at a shop is higher or lower. Americans are keeping their cars longer than ever, with the average car being about 10 years old. While huge benefits of driving an older car include not having a car payment and having lower insurance costs, a disadvantage is that you can be hit with some unexpected, pricey car repairs.
AutoMD's Fair Price feature gives you real-time shop repair estimates based on over 400,000 accredited repair shops in the United States (US). Our estimates factor in average labor costs, hours of completion, and part prices. The feature also estimates Do-It-Yourself car repair costs, allowing you to compare your repair options.
(AIS is MSN Autos' Reliability Ratings content provider.). Consequently, Repair costs can run anywhere from $300 to $2,000, depending on parts, said Christenson-an estimate backed up by most shops in our survey. Repairs start around $500, but as a service manager at a Phoenix Toyota dealership told us, Compressor replacement can be spendy, sometimes going over $1,000.. System Contamination. Estimated Repair Cost: $300 to $2,000. Contamination is another common air conditioning problem.
Two of the most comprehensive websites for car-repair costs are AutoMD and RepairPal, which are both free to use. Launched in 2010, AutoMD is owned by US Auto Parts, an online auto parts retailer. Americans are keeping their cars longer than ever, with the average car being about 10 years old. While huge benefits of driving an older car include not having a car payment and having lower insurance costs, a disadvantage is that you can be hit with some unexpected, pricey car repairs.
The Repair Estimator is a quick and easy way to get cost estimates for the most common services or repairs. 
Our claims representatives write estimates based on parts and labor costs associated with the repair. If the body shop's estimate is higher or lower than ours, your claims representative will discuss this difference with the shop, and they will agree on a price for repairs. Repair estimates vary depending on several factors including labor rates, parts prices and the amount of time necessary to perform certain repairs, but the main elements are the initial estimate, the supplemental estimate and an agreed price.
Let AutoMD help you with repairing your car. Check out our comprehensive online auto repair resource designed to empower car owners with the best way to repair their vehicles. Let AutoMD guide you through your next car repair. Save money!
Fill in info about your car and what you´re seeing or hearing and our diagnostic tool will show you what the possible problems are and what steps to take next. Save money! Check out our comprehensive online auto repair resource designed to empower car owners with the best way to repair their vehicles. Let AutoMD guide you through your next car repair.