Peat Pellets. I just started my grow, and have had nothing but problems with the peat pellets, stayed too wet with the humidity dome on, and dried out too fast with it off. Having much better results planting strait in some fox farms light warrior, but I'm sure any good seed starting mix would work. 
Quick Description: The very best pellet for seed starting! Each one contains weed-free professional grade Canadian Sphagnum peat. Add water, and the Jiffy 7 Peat Pellets quickly swell to 7x its original size to become a perfect self contained pot with its own perfect medium for starting seeds. ‹ › ×. Each one contains weed-free professional grade Canadian Sphagnum peat. Add water, and the Jiffy 7 Peat Pellets quickly swell to 7x its original size to become a perfect self contained pot with its own perfect medium for starting seeds. Seeds are nurtured within the pellet to germinate faster into young seedlings. It is held together by fine netting, ensur­ing optimum air/water exchange
This is the safest approach on germinating Marijuana Seeds. Get some Jiffy Peat Pellets from the handystore or gardencentre. They look like this: These compressed peat pellets have to be soaked in water before use. With that method, the cannabis seeds are put in a wet papertowel where they will germinate. Than the seeds are put into peat pellets or other soil. I personally think that this is not a good way to germinate Marijuana Seeds. Because the freshly germinated seeds have to be touched. Touching that little baby is similar to touching a fetus in the womb
Like every plant, marijuana begins with a seed, which requires water to grow. The seed houses the entire plant and can survive the first few days with a reservoir of food. While it’s germinating, the seed can turn this saved food into sugars, which it uses to grow. Because soil makes a cushion of water and nutrients, it is very easy to germinate the seeds in soil. You should use mildly fertilized potting soil or a seed-starter; the pH level of proper soil should be approximately 6.
Do not use jiffy’s/peat pellets: the acidic pH of pure peat can inhibit germination of cannabis seeds. Results are unreliable and depend on manufacturers, some add limestone to raise pH, some do not. Growers have also experienced problems using rapid rooter plugs (with various types of cannabis seeds). SOIL. Take 8-10 cm/3-4” (diameter) pots or a seedling tray and fill with quality potting soil. Press the soil slightly down and make a 1,5 cm/0,6” deep hole with a pencil or finger. Place the seed in a horizontal position in the hole (this is the easiest method).
Jiffy Peat Pellets. Our customers prefer Jiffy Pellets for seed starting. The outer net of the pellets is decomposable, which means it will degrade under compost conditions (speed and degree will vary with conditions), while retaining its strength through the critical seeding and transplanting stages.
How to grow seeds indoors with Jiffy Professional Greenhouse and seedling heating mat from http://www.butterflygardenplan.com. Part 1 focuses on planting the seeds in the peat pellets. Seedlings are a variety of flowers to be planted in a butterfly garden. 1  People & Blogs
Seed pellets, sometimes called peat pellets, provide an alternative to the standard seedling pot when you start your garden transplants indoors. Jiffy, a brand of seed pellets, uses peat and coconut coir as the primary growing medium. In their dehydrated, compressed form, the pellets store well. With the addition of water, they quickly turn into a container and growing medium for your seedlings. Planting. Once hydrated, pellets perform just like a seedling pot filled with soil. Seeds are sown to the proper depth in the top of pellet, usually with two seeds planted in each pellet in case one seed fails to germinate.