We don't cut corners. Our Beer Baron Sausage is a fully-cooked, smoked, polish-style sausage, made of generous quantities of beef and pork. Our World Famous Sausages are at their best cooked over a grill or broiled, until heated through and browned just right. Beer Baron sausages may also be used on a roller grill. 
Bratwurst (. [ˈbʁaːtvʊɐ̯st]. ) is a type of German sausage made from veal, pork or beef. The name is derived from the Old High German Braetwurst, brätwurst from- , braet brät finely, chopped Meat, and, wurst sausage although In modern german it is often associated with the, verb braten to pan fry. or roast
Cooking with Beer: In addition to consuming beer with sausage, fresh sausage also can be parboiled in beer and then fried or grilled until brown. Sausages absorb the flavor of the beer; stronger beers impart stronger flavors. Using a beer that is well-matched to a sausage promotes optimum flavor. To parboil, place sausage links in a heavy skillet. Add beer to cover sausage and par boil until sausage is grey throughout (about 10 to 15 minutes.) Onions also may be added for additional flavor.
A tasty variation of summer sausage, Beer Salami isn’t hardwood smoked – it’s cured to be juicier and even more tender than our Original sausages. Peppered on the outside for extra spice, Old Wisconsin Beer Salami is the perfect balance of flavors! 1  Gluten Free. 2  Premium. 3  No MSG Added. 
Recipe by: DJ Ness. A dish of either German or possibly Polish origin, made special by my mother, grandmother, her mother before her, etc. The men will love this one, too, and the beer broth is nothing short of amazing. I like to use whatever is in the fridge. Ales, lagers, and wheat brews work best. 1 Pour the beer into a large pot, and bring to a boil over medium heat. 2  Layer the potatoes into the bottom of the pot, and sprinkle a little Italian seasoning, salt, and black pepper over the potatoes.
Bierwurst is the name for German beer sausage. Believe it or not there is no beer in bierwurst. But once you've sliced a big fat piece, put it on a slice of rye with a little brown mustard and popped open an ice cold heffeweizen, you will discover just why this delectable concoction is called beer sausage. 
A sausage is a food usually made from ground meat, often pork, beef or veal, along with salt, spices and breadcrumbs, with a skin around it. Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes synthetic. Longaniza is the most common type of sausage, or at least the most common name in Chile for sausages that also could be classified as chorizo. The Chilean variety is made of four parts pork to one part bacon (or less) and seasoned with finely ground garlic, salt, pepper, cumin, oregano, paprika and chilli sauce.
Bock is a beer that was used to celebrate the end of the brewing season. It is a dark sweet, heavy beer, much like the Muncheners, but stronger. It is suited to Bockwurst, a fresh or cooked sausage made of veal (usually more veal than pork) and blended with milk, chives, eggs and chopped parsley. Using a beer that is well-matched to a sausage promotes optimum flavor. To parboil, place sausage links in a heavy skillet. Add beer to cover sausage and par boil until sausage is grey throughout (about 10 to 15 minutes.) Onions also may be added for additional flavor.