Many strict Jains do not eat foods like onions, potatoes, garlic throughout their lives, while others abstain from these foods during Chaturmash. The onions and garlic increase sexual desires, while root vegetables like potatoes may have millions of bacterias and also smaller insects are killed during their harvest.. 
The strictest forms of Jain diet is practiced by the monastic ascetics; in addition to potatoes it may exclude other root vegetables. This food is called sattvic, which means that it is based on the qualities of goodness, lightness and happiness. It is one of the most rigorous forms of spiritually-motivated diet on the Indian subcontinent and beyond. The Jain cuisine is completely vegetarian and also excludes onions, potatoes, brinjals and garlic, similar to the shojin-ryori Buddhist cuisine of Japan.
To some westerners the Jains are known for the fact that they do not eat root vegetables (potatoes, onions, turnips) or foods which contain potential living cultures such as c … heese and yoghurt. They don't even eat potatoes because they don't want to hurt any insect. Jains abstain from eating fish, … meat and some vegetables based on the principle of non violence to all living creatures.
Strict Jains don’t eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions, roots and tubers, because such root vegetables are considered to be 'ananthkay'. 'Ananthkay' means one body, but containing countless lives. 1. Main cause for not eating the vegetables that grow underground is those vegetables are home to many living organisms that we can see with naked eyes living beneath soil (besides containing bacteria) . Yeah, My grandmother avoid yogurt and Cheese because of the reason that they contain ample of Bacteria.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Some jains are only vegetarians but some strong believers are vegans. They don't even eat potatoes because they don't want to hurt any insect. Jains abstain from eating fish, meat and some vegetables based on the principle of non violence to all living creatures. Jains are strict vegetarians who eat all fruits and vegetables except root vegetables that grow underground. This includes Potatoes, Onions, Garlic, Carrots, Raddish and other tubers because tiny life forms are injured when the plant is pulled up and because the bulb is seen as a living being, as it is able to sprou
Some jains are only vegetarians but some strong believers are vegans. They don't even eat potatoes because they don't want to hurt any insect. Jains abstain from eating fish, … meat and some vegetables based on the principle of non violence to all living creatures. Jains are strict vegetarians who eat all fruits and vegetables except root vegetables that grow underground. This includes Potatoes, Onions, Garlic, Carrots, Raddish and other tubers because tiny life forms are injured when the plant is pulled up and because the bulb is seen as a living being, as it is able to sprout
Some Jain scholars and activists support veganism, as the production of dairy products is perceived to involve violence against cows. Strict Jains don't eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions, roots and tubers. 
1 Strict Jains don’t eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions, roots and tubers, because such root vegetables are considered ananthkay. 2  Ananthkay means one body, but containing countless lives. 3  A regular vegetable such as cabbage has number of leaves and lives as could be counted by a layman. It is one of the most rigorous forms of spiritually-motivated diet on the Indian subcontinent and beyond. The Jain cuisine is completely vegetarian and also excludes onions, potatoes, brinjals and garlic, similar to the shojin-ryori Buddhist cuisine of Japan.
1 Jains only accept such violence inasmuch as it is indispensable for human survival, and there are special instructions for preventing unnecessary violence against plants. 2  Strict Jains don’t eat root vegetables such as potatoes, onions, roots and tubers, because such root vegetables are considered ananthkay. It is one of the most rigorous forms of spiritually-motivated diet on the Indian subcontinent and beyond. The Jain cuisine is completely vegetarian and also excludes onions, potatoes, brinjals and garlic, similar to the shojin-ryori Buddhist cuisine of Japan.