To retrieve mail from and send mail through a free Yahoo! Mail account in Outlook 2003: ›› 1  Step by Step Screenshot Walkthrough. 2  Install YPOPs! and make sure it is running. 3  Open Outlook. 4  Select Tools | E-Mail Accounts... 5  from the menu. 6  Make sure Add a new e-mail account is selected. 7  Click. 8  Check POP3. 9  Click. To fetch mail from and send mail through a free Yahoo! Mail account in Outlook: ›› 1  Step by Step Screenshot Walkthrough. 2  Install YPOPs! and make sure it is running. 3  Select Tools | Account Settings... 4  from the menu in Outlook. 5  Go to the E-mail tab. 6  Click New... 
1 If you have signed in to Surface with a Microsoft account, your mail account is already set up. 2  You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 3  If you’ve signed in to Surface with a local account, your mail account is not yet set up. 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
1 If you signed in to your Surface with a Microsoft account, your mail account is already set up. 2  You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
1 You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to get a Microsoft account, and use your Microsoft account email address to begin using the Mail app. 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
Then in Choose service select POP or IMAP. Add your user information and for server information, Account type: IMAP. Incoming mail server: imap.mail.yahoo.com. Outgoing mail server (SMTP): smtp.mail.yahoo.com. Then add your logon information as below. Go to More settings and select the Outgoing server tab. Check box next to My outgoing server (SMTP) requires authentication and select the radio button next to Use same settings as my incoming mail server.
Add Your Yahoo Account to Outlook 2003 Using IMAP. To set up your Outlook 2003 client to work with Yahoo: 1  Open Outlook. 2  Click the Tools menu, and select E-mail Accounts. 3  Click Add a new e-mail account, and click Next. 4  Choose IMAP as your server type by clicking the radio button, and click Next
1 You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo! and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to get a Microsoft account, and use your Microsoft account email address to begin using the Mail app. 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
Start by adding a new account from the backstage tab. Select Manually configure server settings or additional server types and click Next. Select Internet E-mail and click Next. Enter your account details and the server settings as shown below. Open the dialog Internet E-mail Settings by clicking More Settings... and switch to the Advanced tab. 
Mail ID (your email address without the @yahoo.com) Email Address: Your Yahoo! Mail address (e.g., user@yahoo.com) Password: Your Yahoo! Mail password If you want to use Outlook, Outlook Express, Thunderbird or other third party email clients to view your email you have 2 options. Subscribe to mail plus: http://billing.mail.yahoo.com/bm/Upgrade... or download and install YPOPS http://ypopsemail.com/ then follow the directions for your version of outlook here, http://help.yahoo.com/l/us/yahoo/mail/or...