Typically, residential solar power systems in Australia vary from 1.5kW (6 x 250W panels) to 10kW (40 x 250W panels) in size. A 5kW solar system is generally seen as a ‘decent sized’ average. Consider that back in 2010 you were looking at $17000 to $20000 for a 5kW system, that same system now can be bought for between $7000 and $15000. Then there’s the Australian Solar Credits Rebate. At the point of sale, homeowners are entitled to a government rebate on their solar panels.
Our residential solar power systems are custom designed for your home. Getting a solar panel system price estimate is easy: you can start with a quick online quote, talk with one of our friendly consultants or request a free consultation and written proposal. Free consultation. Schedule a free consultation with one of our knowledgeable consultants to learn about the price of a solar panel system for your home and how much you can save every month on your electricity bills. The initial call will be about 10 minutes.
You can use these solar calculators to estimate the size and the cost of the solar panel array needed for your home energy usage. Ideally, you will know your total kilo-watt hours (kWh) used for the past 12 months or the average monthly kWh used each month. 1 Do you want to cut your electric bill by 20%, 50% or 100%? 2  It will cost less upfront to start with a smaller system, but you will still save money every month. 3  Estimated Cost per Watt-Enter a value in this field to estimate the cost of solar panels for the size of your estimated solar array.
Cost to you for 3kW of solar power: Approx $5,000. Now whether a 3kW system is an appropriate size for you or not is a good, and difficult, question to answer. It is not as simple as buying a solar system that generates the same amount of electricity that your household uses. Home Solar Panels Solar Panels Cost. The price of your new solar system will, of course, depend on how big it is. Or to put it another way-how many kiloWatts (kW) you choose to install.
the approximate cost for a solar panel system, before incentives and rebates, to offset 100% energy cost ($170 / month). the system required would be a 7.8 kW system. By offsetting 50% of your energy consumption, the system required would. be half that size, or a 3.9 kW solar energy system. 3.9 kW x $9,000 (average price per 1kW) = $35,100 * before incentives. Offsetting 50% of your energy demand might net 60% or more off your monthly bill due to the tiered pricing structure. Over the system’s lifetime that’s a net savings of at least $60,000. The average homeowner saves over $1000 a year on electricity by installing solar panels on their roof. That’s including the cost of solar panels. The most. common way to go solar today is by leasing, which essentially means instead of paying the utility you pay less to produce your own energy.
The cost of installing solar power on a mid-sized home is between $30,000 to $40,000 dollars, which covers about 30 panels. If you’re connecting off the grid, expect a higher price tag to cover the cost of extra wiring and materials. Those 30 panels will produce about 8350 kW hours of energy a year or 22 kW hours a day. It doesn’t quite cover the average household consumption of 30 kW per day, but it will certainly make a big dent in what you use.
Wholesale Solar is 100% employee-owned! Figuring out exactly how much your solar system will cost can take a little detective work. Electricity rates vary, and each state has different rebates that may affect the overall price of your system. The average system costs a little over $10,000. The good news is that many banks offer low cost financing, which can make your loan payment less than what you were previously paying for electricity!
Last update: June, 2014. Solar panels have been just as cheap or cheaper than grid energy since 2013, in most places. Solar is unlikely to continue to get a lot cheaper, though, because the price of the panels has dropped so much that most of the system cost is now for installation, not for the panels themselves. 
1 Estimated Cost per Watt-Enter a value in this field to estimate the cost of solar panels for the size of your estimated solar array. 2  Cost per watt will vary depending on the system size, solar manufacturer, labor costs and location. 1 Do you want to cut your electric bill by 20%, 50% or 100%? 2  It will cost less upfront to start with a smaller system, but you will still save money every month. 3 
Solar Energy Savings. The average household today pays nearly $170 each month in home energy costs. Some estimates have energy costs pegged. at almost $200 per month, a cost of $2,400 for the entire year. The average homeowner saves over $1000 a year on electricity by installing solar panels on their roof. That’s including the cost of solar panels. The most. common way to go solar today is by leasing, which essentially means instead of paying the utility you pay less to produce your own energy.