1 Non-small cell lung cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the lung. 2  There are several types of non-small cell lung cancer. 3  Smoking increases the risk of non-small cell lung cancer. 4  Signs of non-small cell lung cancer include a cough that doesn't go away and shortness of breath.
A group of lung cancers that are named for the kinds of cells found in the cancer and how the cells look under a microscope. The three main types of non-small cell lung cancer are squamous cell carcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma. Non-small cell lung cancer is the most common kind of lung cancer.
Cancer from other organs also may spread to the lungs. When cancer cells spread from one organ to another, they are called metastases. Lung cancers usually are grouped into two main types called small cell and non-small cell. These types of lung cancer grow differently and are treated differently.
Small cell lung cancer About 10% to 15% of all lung cancers are small cell lung cancer (SCLC), named for the size of the cancer cells when seen under a microscope. Other names for SCLC are oat cell cancer, oat cell carcinoma, and small cell undifferentiated carcinoma.
small cell lung cancer starts in the lungs where mutated cancer cells begin to form tumors but like all cancers small cell lung cancer can spread to any organ or area of your body this process is known as metastasis
Lung cancer can start anywhere in the lungs and affect any part of the respiratory system. The cancer cells can spread, or metastasize, to the lymph nodes and other parts of the body. Lung cancers are divided into small cell lung cancers (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC).
1 Small cell lung cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the lung. 2  There are two main types of small cell lung cancer. 3  Smoking increases the risk of small cell lung cancer. 4  Signs and symptoms of small cell lung cancer include coughing, shortness of breath, and chest pain.
Non-small cell lung cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the lung. The lungs are a pair of cone-shaped breathing organs in the chest. The lungs bring oxygen into the body as you breathe in. They release carbon dioxide, a waste product of the body's cells, as you breathe out.