Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: greater than 40% loss of the total body blood volume is considered life threatening. A lot will depend on the speed of this loss. The body has several compensatory mechanisms to help with the sudden drop in blood pressure that accompanies severe bleeding. It is usually not the loss of blood cells that is the main problem.
Symptoms are similar to those of other types of anemia and vary from mild to severe, depending on how much blood is lost and how rapidly. When the blood loss is rapid—over several hours or less—loss of just one third of the blood volume can be fatal. When blood loss is rapid, blood pressure falls, and people may be dizzy. When blood loss occurs gradually, people may be tired, short of breath, and pale. Stool, urine, and imaging tests may be needed to determine the source of bleeding.
1 Class II Hemorrhage involves 15-30% of total blood volume. 2  A patient is often tachycardic (rapid heart beat) with a narrowing of the difference between the systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Blood loss [edit]. Hemorrhaging is broken down into four classes by the American College of Surgeons' advanced trauma life support (ATLS). 1  Class I Hemorrhage involves up to 15% of
1 Class III Hemorrhage involves loss of 30-40% of circulating blood volume. 2  The patient's blood pressure drops, the heart rate increases, peripheral hypoperfusion (shock), such as capillary refill worsens, and the mental status worsens. 3  Fluid resuscitation with crystalloid and blood transfusion are usually necessary. Blood loss [edit]. Hemorrhaging is broken down into four classes by the American College of Surgeons' advanced trauma life support (ATLS). 1  Class I Hemorrhage involves up to 15% of
1 Class I Hemorrhage involves up to 15% of blood volume. 2  There is typically no change in vital signs and fluid resuscitation is not usually necessary. 3  Class II Hemorrhage involves 15-30% of total blood volume. Blood loss [edit]. Hemorrhaging is broken down into four classes by the American College of Surgeons' advanced trauma life support (ATLS). 1 
The average healthy person has approximately 6 litres / 12 pints of blood-loss of one third, (1/3), of the total blood volume is fatal. Therefore I would say that a loss of … about a litre / 2 pints would render a healthy person unconscious. + 25 others found this useful. Savannah Clipp. The average human body has 8-10 pints of blood. The maximum amount  of blood you can lose and still be functional is 33% or one-third  of your blood. Eventually, your body w … ill collapse and send you  into a temporary coma.
The next level of blood loss occurs with the Class 3 hemorrhage, which references loss of 30 to 40 percent of total blood volume. This could be around 3 to 4 pints of blood, for those keeping track. Blood transfusion is usually necessary with a hemorrhage of this magnitude, according to Alton. For reference, when a person donates blood, about eight to 10 percent of the body’s blood is removed. There are generally no symptoms of blood loss at this point, though some may feel slightly faint. A Class 2 hemorrhage is a loss of 15 to 30 percent of blood volume. This is where symptoms of blood loss begin to manifest. “The body tries to compensate at this point with, among other things, a faster heartbeat to speed oxygen to tissues,” Alton said
Excessive bleeding is the most common cause of anemia. When blood is lost, the body quickly pulls water from tissues outside the bloodstream in an attempt to keep the blood vessels filled. As a result, the blood is diluted, and the hematocrit (the percentage of red blood cells in the total blood volume) is reduced. When blood loss is rapid, blood pressure falls, and people may be dizzy. When blood loss occurs gradually, people may be tired, short of breath, and pale. Stool, urine, and imaging tests may be needed to determine the source of bleeding.