Prairie Vole (Microtus ochrogaster). The prairie vole is 5 to 7 inches (13 to 18 cm) in total length (nose to tip of tail). Its fur is gray to dark brown and mixed with gray, yellow, or hazel-tipped hairs, giving it a “peppery” appearance. Underparts are gray to yellow-gray. The long-tailed vole can be distinguished from other Microtus species by its tail, which comprises 30% or more of its total length of 6 to 8 1/2 inches (15 to 21 cm). The long-tailed vole has gray to dark brown fur with many black-tipped hairs. The underparts are gray mixed with some white or yellow.
Vole bones are often found in the pellets of the short-eared owl, the northern spotted owl, the saw-whet owl, the barn owl, the great gray owl and the northern pygmy owl. The average life of the smaller vole species is three to six months. These voles rarely live longer than 12 months. Larger species, such as the European water vole, live longer and usually die during their second, or rarely their third, winter. As many as 88% of voles are estimated to die within the first month of life. Not to be confused with Mole (animal) . A vole is a small rodent resembling a mouse but with a stouter body, a shorter, hairy tail, a slightly more round head, smaller ears and eyes, and differently formed molars (high-crowned and with angular cusps instead of low-crowned and with rounded cusps).
About. The Field Vole (also known as the short-tailed vole) is very common in grassland, heathland and moorland habitats. Field Voles eat seeds, roots and leaves, and, further up the food chain, form an extremely important part of the diet of many predators, such as Kestrels, Weasels and Barn Owls. How to identify. Voles can be distinguished from mice by their rounder faces, smaller ears and eyes and shorter tails. The Field Vole is often a greyish-brown or yellowish-brown colour with a pale grey underside. Its tail length is approximately 30% of its body length, thus giving it its' name.
The meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus), sometimes called the field mouse or meadow mouse, is a North American vole found across Canada, Alaska and the northern United States. 
Close-up of vole damage to beet roots (Beta vulgaris). Voles, Microtus spp., also commonly called meadow mice, are seldom seen though the damage they do to garden plants may be a too common sight. These are chunky, ground-dwelling rodents about 7 inches long with a tail that is less than 2 inches long. Young voles are gray. 
Learn about vole biology, food habits, damage caused by voles, and damage control methods. Four species of voles occur in Pennsylvania: the meadow vole, the pine vole, the red-backed vole, and the rock vole. The red-backed vole and rock vole are primarily restricted to mountainous areas, and it is the meadow vole and pine vole that are most often responsible in damage situations. Voles eat a wide variety of plants, most frequently grasses and forbs. In late summer and fall, they store seeds, tubers, bulbs, and rhizomes. They eat bark at times, primarily in fall and winter, and will also eat grain crops, especially when their populations are high.
Common Name: Meadow Vole. (Information for this species page was gathered in part by Ms. Melissa Alo for an assignment in Biology 220W, Spring 2006). A “vole” is defined as a rodent belonging to the genus “Microtus.” Voles resemble rats and mice but have shorter tails and heavier, cylindrical bodies. The meadow vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) (which is also called the “meadow mouse” or the “field mouse”) is 5 to 7 inches long including its tail. The tail is only as long as its hind legs. 
Meadow Vole (M. pennsylvanicus). The meadow vole is the most widely distributed Microtus species in the United States. Its total length is 5 1/2 to 7 1/2 inches (14 to 19 cm) and its fur is gray to yellow-brown, obscured by black-tipped hairs. Northern subspecies may also have some red in their fur. The long-tailed vole can be distinguished from other Microtus species by its tail, which comprises 30% or more of its total length of 6 to 8 1/2 inches (15 to 21 cm). The long-tailed vole has gray to dark brown fur with many black-tipped hairs. The underparts are gray mixed with some white or yellow.
There are 62 species in the genus Microtus in the world with 23 vole species in the United States. The most common in North America is the meadow vole, Microtus pennsylvanicus. Although sometimes referred to as a “meadow mouse” they are a separate and distinct animal from any mice species found in North America. Order: Rodentia. Family: Muridae. Genus: Microtus. Species: Pennsylvanicus. Voles common to yards and gardens are curious animals with a close resemblance to other rodents common to North America. They are often confused with house mice and shrews, and on occasion even moles.