Report Abuse. Hulling strawberries removes their green caps and inner white cores. Use your fingertips to pull off the leafy caps and then cut out the soft white cores with the tip of a paring knife. Another way is by using a plastic straw. You take a sharp knife and use a tip to cut a small circle around the stalk to pull it out. This is hulling Now why not get some strawberries, hull them slice and place in meringue nests, serve with whipped cream and a few chocolate flakes. Or dip your strawberries in melted Green &Blacks organic chocolate Enjoy.
hull-the frame or body of ship. keel-one of the main longitudinal beams (or plates) of the hull of a vessel; can extend vertically into the water to provide lateral stability. 6. hull-the frame or body of ship. keel-one of the main longitudinal beams (or plates) of the hull of a vessel; can extend vertically into the water to provide lateral stability. keelson-a longitudinal beam connected to the keel of ship to strengthen it.
hull. noun. 1. framework, casing, body, covering, frame, skeleton The hull had suffered extensive damage to the starboard side. 2. husk, skin, shell, peel, pod, rind, shuck I soaked the hulls off lima beans. verb. 1. trim, peel, skin, shell, husk, shuck Soak them in water with lemon juice for 30 minutes before hulling. 6. hull-the frame or body of ship. keel-one of the main longitudinal beams (or plates) of the hull of a vessel; can extend vertically into the water to provide lateral stability. keelson-a longitudinal beam connected to the keel of ship to strengthen it.
Half-hull of the 46-gun ship of the line Tigre, build from 1724 in Toulon after plans by Blaise Coulomb. A hull is the watertight body of a ship or boat. Above the hull is the superstructure and/or deckhouse, where present. The line where the hull meets the water surface is called the waterline. The structure of the hull varies depending on the vessel type
The goal of coffee hulling is to remove the parchment skin (or pergamino) from the coffee bean. The parchment is a naturally occurring, papery substance that surrounds the coffee bean, just like the endocarp (membrane-like layer) that surrounds many other types of fruit seeds (such as apple seeds). Hulling away the parchment is optional because some coffee beans are sold in parchment (or en pergamino). After coffee beans have been dried (either in the sun and / or in drying machines), the parchment skin is crumbly and dry, so it can be easily removed.
This hulling method is extremely efficient resulting in higher outputs with lower power consumption. The friction between the coffee beans is minimum and therefore there is no loss due to the generation of coffee dust or breakage of beans. The Huller consists of a Cross Beater which rotates inside a perforated cylinder. The coffee to be hulled is fed into the hulling cylinder where the cross beater forces the coffee to pass through the perforated screen. This results in the complete separation of the husk from the coffee beans.
Marko Goodwin. Coffee hulling is an optional step in coffee production. Coffee hulling occurs in the late stages of coffee processing; it is usually done between milling and polishing, although some people consider it to be a part of the milling process or skip the polishing and move directly onto cleaning and sorting. Hulling away the parchment is optional because some coffee beans are sold in parchment (or en pergamino). After coffee beans have been dried (either in the sun and / or in drying machines), the parchment skin is crumbly and dry, so it can be easily removed.
Peas in their hull. Peas in their hull. The definition of a hull is the outer layer of something or the outer shell of a seed or fruit. 1  An example of a hull is the frame of a boat. 2  An example of a hull is the shell of a grain of wheat
Hulling strawberries—removing the green stem or calyx from the top of the berry—makes them more elegant and easier to eat when served plain. It is also the first step in any recipe that uses strawberries, be it salsa or dessert. No matter how you're eating them, you want to start with fresh, ripe berries. 
Full Definition of HULL. 1. a: the outer covering of a fruit or seed b: the persistent calyx or involucre that subtends some fruits (as a strawberry). 2. a: the frame or body of a ship or boat exclusive of masts, yards, sails, and rigging b: the main body of a usually large or heavy craft or vehicle (as an airship or tank). 3.