Heater core (arrowed) in the partially disassembled dashboard of a BMW E32. The internal combustion engine in most cars and trucks is cooled by a water and antifreeze mixture that is circulated through the engine and radiator by a water pump to enable the radiator to give off engine heat to the atmosphere. Some of that water can be diverted through the heater core to give some engine heat to the cabin. A heater core is a small radiator, located under the dashboard of the vehicle and consists of conductive aluminium or brass tubing with cooling fins to increase surface area.
A heater core is a smaller version of the radiator that allows water used in the cooling system for the engine to be used to heat the interior of the vehicle. If the heater core in your vehicle goes out, you will not be able  to use your heater or defroster. You will also notice the smell of  antifreeze throughout the vehicle and … possibly a film on the  windshield from the antifreeze.
As the heater core valve opens, coolant is allowed to be pumped out of the engine block and into the heater core by the vehicle's water pump. The warm coolant radiates heat through the heater core's tubes and fins, where it is forced into the vehicle's passenger cabin by an electric fan. The heater core valve acts much like a thermostat in that it regulates the amount of heat produced by the heater through the amount of fluid it allows to flow into the heater core. If not for the heater core valve, the vehicle's heater would be in a continuous state of warming. As the coolant flows through the heating system, the heat from the incoming coolant would radiate into the vehicle's passenger compartment
The fan for the vehicle's ventilation system forces air through the heater core to transfer heat from the coolant to the cabin air, which is directed into the vehicle through vents at various points. Some of that water can be diverted through the heater core to give some engine heat to the cabin. A heater core is a small radiator, located under the dashboard of the vehicle and consists of conductive aluminium or brass tubing with cooling fins to increase surface area.
A heater core is a radiator-like device used in heating the cabin of a vehicle. Hot coolant from the vehicle's engine is passed through a winding tube of the core, a heat exchanger between coolant and cabin air. Some of that water can be diverted through the heater core to give some engine heat to the cabin. A heater core is a small radiator, located under the dashboard of the vehicle and consists of conductive aluminium or brass tubing with cooling fins to increase surface area.
A heater control valve is simply a water valve which allows more or less water to circulate through the heater core, depending on how much the valve is opened. The coolant flows  through the heater core all the time.    Temperature is controlled by:    Temperature blend door-control how much air travels through  the heater core -   A small motor that controls the blend door-a rather common  failure point.
A heater core in a vehicle takes some of the heat from the coolant and runs it through a heat exchanger. The blower in the car that blows hot air into your car runs through that heat exchanger which heats the air that enters your car. If the heater core in your vehicle goes out, you will not be able  to use your heater or defroster. You will also notice the smell of  antifreeze throughout the vehicle and … possibly a film on the  windshield from the antifreeze.
The heater core valve is a device that allows coolant to flow into a vehicle's heater core to produce heat. In a vehicle, the heater core is nothing more than a miniature radiator that receives hot coolant from the vehicle's engine. The heater core valve acts much like a thermostat in that it regulates the amount of heat produced by the heater through the amount of fluid it allows to flow into the heater core. If not for the heater core valve, the vehicle's heater would be in a continuous state of warming. As the coolant flows through the heating system, the heat from the incoming coolant would radiate into the vehicle's passenger compartment
Engines that do not have a water cooling system can not use a heater core; one alternative is to guide air around the (very hot) engine exhaust manifold and then into the vehicle's interior. Temperature control is achieved by mixing with unheated outside air. Some of that water can be diverted through the heater core to give some engine heat to the cabin. A heater core is a small radiator, located under the dashboard of the vehicle and consists of conductive aluminium or brass tubing with cooling fins to increase surface area.