The cause of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is not fully understood. Genes play a role, but experts don't know exactly what that role is. For most people with RA, the disease doesn't run in their families and they don't pass it along to their children. One or more genes may make it more likely that the body's immune system will attack the tissues of the joints.
Researchers are working to understand what causes rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a complex disease in which the patient’s immune system attacks its own tissue causing swelling and inflammation in the joints and damage of tissues and other organs. Much of the rheumatoid arthritis research being conducted focuses on immune mechanisms involved. Many of these mechanisms are shared with other autoimmune diseases that attack different organs, such as lupus (kidneys), multiple sclerosis (brain) and Type I diabetes (pancreas).
Since rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic disease, its inflammation can affect organs and areas of the body other than the joints. Inflammation of the glands of the eyes and mouth can cause dryness of these areas and is referred to as Sjoegren'sjögren s. Syndrome dryness of the eyes can lead to corneal. abrasion Since rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic disease, its inflammation can affect organs and areas of the body other than the joints. Inflammation of the glands of the eyes and mouth can cause dryness of these areas and is referred to as Sjoegren'sjögren s. syndrome
About RA. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that causes pain, swelling, and stiffness in the joints. In some people, it can also cause the joints to become damaged and deformed. Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). A disease in which the immune system attacks the linings of the joints. This results in joint pain, stiffness, swelling, and destruction. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases). Part of: Arthritis, Autoimmune Disease.
Advertisement. The cause of RA is not yet fully understood, although doctors do know that an abnormal response of the immune system plays a leading role in the inflammation and joint damage that occurs. 
Introduction. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic disease in which various joints in the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible loss of function. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system attacks joints and other tissues. The pattern of joints affected is usually symmetrical, involves the hands and other joints, and is worse in the morning. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic disease in which various joints in the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible loss of fun
A. A. A. Unlike osteoarthritis, a condition caused by wear and tear on joints, rheumatoid arthritis happens when your immune system targets your joint linings. It’s a long-term condition that also affects other tissue, but the joints are usually the most severely affected. Doctors don’t know exactly what causes RA.
Rheumatoid arthritis affects around 400,000 people in the UK. It can affect adults at any age, but most commonly starts between the ages of 40 and 50. About three times as many women as men are affected. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease. This means that your immune system starts attacking your body’s own tissues instead of germs and viruses, which causes inflammation. Inflammation normally dies down fairly quickly but in rheumatoid arthritis it becomes a long-term (chronic) process