@Jerry, relatively speaking, Easy Cast epoxy resin doesn’t cure as hard as some other resins. I would suggest switching to the Resin Obsession super clear resin or the Polyester casting resin also made by the manufacturers of Easy Cast. @Kristen, I have used Easy Cast a lot and have found that it works well for me. 
1 PC-Plumbing is a hand moldable putty epoxy designed for quick emergency-type repairs. 2  PC-Plumbing™ allows a working time of about 3 minutes and cures for service in 60 minutes. They are just what you need if you want to get back to the game before half-time is over! 1 
1 The epoxy mixture has cured to a solid state and can be dry sanded and shaped. 2  You should not be able to dent it with your thumbnail. 3  At this point the epoxy has reached about 90% of its ultimate strength, so clamps can be removed. 4  It will continue to cure over the next several days at room temperature. The time it takes for this transformation is the cure time. As it cures, the epoxy passes from the liquid state, through a gel state, before it reaches a solid state (Figure 1). As it cures, mixed epoxy pass from a liquid state, through a gel state, to a solid state. 1  Liquid-Open time. 2  Open time (also working time or wet lay-up time) is the portion of the cure time, after mixing, that the resin/hardener mixture remains a liquid and is workable and suitable for application
Tips & Warnings. 1  Use an epoxy resin spray on cured pieces to cover indents or other imperfections. 2  You can also buff out imperfections with plastic polish and a buffing stick. 3  If air bubbles form in the mold, blow gently on them to pop them. 4  Wear gloves and work in a well-ventilated room. If it does show an indentation, leave to cure for an additional 1 to 2 days. Turn the mold upside down and lightly tap the back until the the resin piece emerges. Spread the resin pieces out on a sheet of wax paper and leave them to finish curing for an additional 12 to 24 hours before buffing or mounting.
A: For a two part room temperature curing epoxy, if we were going to submit that material for low outgassing testing, we would cure it at room temperature overnight and then add heat, 100-150°C for 2-3 hours at the very least, and that will get us where we want to go. With two part epoxies that require heat curing and the one part epoxies, the normal curing schedule is followed and then a post cure of at least few hours at 100-150°C is added to the curing schedule to optimize the properties for this kind of test.
1 Use an epoxy resin spray on cured pieces to cover indents or other imperfections. 2  You can also buff out imperfections with plastic polish and a buffing stick. 3  If air bubbles form in the mold, blow gently on them to pop them. 4  Wear gloves and work in a well-ventilated room. If it does show an indentation, leave to cure for an additional 1 to 2 days. Turn the mold upside down and lightly tap the back until the the resin piece emerges. Spread the resin pieces out on a sheet of wax paper and leave them to finish curing for an additional 12 to 24 hours before buffing or mounting.
Room temperature cured epoxies can take up to a month to fully cure. Even at this point they may not be fully cured due to the presence of low levels of both epoxy and amine materials still not cross-linked. Heat curing will advance the cure to the best that can be achieved, and typically 16 hours at 40°C is reputed to cure epoxies to the maximum level that they would be expected to cure at room temperature. Post curing will also even out the cure of various areas cured at different times of the year
Epoxy resin adds a hard, plastic coating to anything it is poured onto. It can also be poured into molds to form plastic shapes, such as drawer pulls or jewelry. If it does show an indentation, leave to cure for an additional 1 to 2 days. Turn the mold upside down and lightly tap the back until the the resin piece emerges. Spread the resin pieces out on a sheet of wax paper and leave them to finish curing for an additional 12 to 24 hours before buffing or mounting.