Consider getting a master's degree in journalism. Though a master's degree in journalism isn't required for you to become a TV reporter or a news anchor, it can help you get a leg up in the profession. Most journalism master's programs, such as the one at Columbia University, are only one or two years long. 
If you want to inform people for a living, you have to get informed first. That's why most journalism schools emphasize a broad education that begins with the foundation of journalism, but also includes courses in the liberal arts, including history and economics. In fact, many journalism schools limit the number of hours you can spend taking courses in the major.
Best Answer: Most schools have journalism majors, and most of the ones that don't have journalism concentrations in the communications or english department. You don't HAVE to go to college to be a journalist. Report Abuse. You HAVE to go to college for a degree in journalism. You will take classes similar to English classes, but you will be doing more towards what you want to do. In fact, you just about have to go to college to just about get any job in the work force. Source(s): http://www.indiana.edu/~udiv/majors/majo..
This is sheer frickin’ madness if your undergrad is journalism — unless you DON’T want to be a journalist. If you want to be a lawyer, heck, sure, get out of here and go to law school. But if you want to DO JOURNALISM as your career, your calling, your mission in life — then GO GET A JOB. The sooner, the better. 
How to Become a Journalist. Journalism is a competitive, yet highly rewarding field. It’s the backbone of the media industry and is critical to a high functioning democracy. To be successful as a journalist, you must have a passion for truth, honesty and integrity, and the guts to go out and get the story. Read on for important steps on how to become a journalist. Build upon your natural writing talent. To become a journalist, some intrinsic skills are necessary to achieve success. First off, you’ve got to have an inquiring mind. You must be passionate about knowledge and learning, and willing to do what it takes to get at the truth behind a story.
Concentrations. Many journalism schools require students to choose minor concentrations. Concentrations may be in humanities such as art or history, social sciences such as psychology or sociology, or interdisciplinary studies that combine areas. It takes three to four upper-level courses to complete a concentration. That's why most journalism schools emphasize a broad education that begins with the foundation of journalism, but also includes courses in the liberal arts, including history and economics. In fact, many journalism schools limit the number of hours you can spend taking courses in the major.
You have to go to College to be a journalist but you don't have to major in journalism. English major or English related majors are just fine. do internships though to have a step at the door while your in college. bunnygrl43 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Report Abuse. You HAVE to go to college for a degree in journalism. You will take classes similar to English classes, but you will be doing more towards what you want to do. In fact, you just about have to go to college to just about get any job in the work force. Source(s): http://www.indiana.edu/~udiv/majors/majo..
To become a journalist, you have to attend college/university for at least 4 years and graduate with a Bachelor's degree. You can also continue on into Graduate School for app … roximately 2 more years to receive a Master's degree in Journalism. 
Report Abuse. You don't have to go to college to get a degree in Journalism if your Daddy owns the newspaper or magazine. Then you can get a job there and some editor will clean up your writing. Julie H · 8 years ago. 