Extension of time to perform When an event of Force Majeure occurs, parties to a commercial contract may agree to extend the time to perform their contractual obligations-except for sales and purchase contracts or service contracts with fixed times for performance. 
A  force majeure clause is often included in a contract.  Force majeure simply means: [Law French a superior force] An event or effect that can be neither anticipated nor controlled; the term includes both acts of nature (such as floods or hurricanes) and acts of people (such as riots, strikes or wars). In Ohio, in order to use a force majeure clause as an excuse for nonperformance, the nonperforming party bears the burden of proving that the event was beyond their control and without its fault or negligence..
In practice, most force majeure clauses do not excuse a party's non-performance entirely, but only suspends it for the duration of the force majeure. Force majeure is generally intended to include occurrences beyond the reasonable control of a party, and therefore would not cover: 1  any result of the negligence or malfeasance of a party, which have a materially adverse effect on the ability of such party to perform its obligations; A force majeure may work to excuse all or part of the obligations of one or both parties. For example, a strike might prevent timely delivery of goods, but not timely payment for the portion delivered.
The importance of the force majeure clause in a contract, particularly one of any length in time, cannot be overstated as it relieves a party from an obligation under the contract (or suspends that obligation). A force majeure may work to excuse all or part of the obligations of one or both parties. For example, a strike might prevent timely delivery of goods, but not timely payment for the portion delivered.
Under English law, force majeure is not a term of art, in the sense that it is not a free-standing legal concept which exists outside the terms of the contract. For force majeure to be of relevance, there must be either (i) a reference in the contract to force majeure, or (ii) a “force majeure” clause in the contract. Force majeure operates by relieving a party partially or fully from his obligation to perform a particular obligation. It can also suspend the execution of an obligation or allow an extension of time to perform the same.
Effects of an Event of Force Majeure. Either Party shall be excused from performance and shall not be in default in respect of any obligation hereunder to the extent that the failure to perform such obligation is due to a Natural Force Majeure Event. Go to Force Majeure Clauses-checkllist and sample wording for more guidance.
It is however not intended to excuse any negligence or malfeasance. It can also suspend the performance of an obligation or extend the time to perform the same. Force majeure is only recognised in English law if there is a force majeure clause in the contract or a reference in the contract to force majeure. In the event that there is only a reference to force majeure – example force majeure excepted, what constitutes force majeure is then determined on a case by case basis. This would include an Act of God / forces of nature event but can also extend to extraneous human intervention events.
Force majeure: the facts. Force majeure clauses are often included in a supplier’s contract to give them leeway if they’re delayed in or prevented from fulfilling their contractual obligations because of events beyond their control. Therefore, it’s prudent to consider including a time limit in your force majeure clauses, allowing either customer or supplier to terminate the agreement after the pre-defined time period has passed.
The force majeure clause is antithetical to common law principles. Under force majeure clauses parties avoid contractual obligations and fault or liability as ascribed to neither party to the contract, but rather to a cause beyond the control of either of the parties. It is in regard to the latter purpose that the concept of force majeure plays an important role. Such clauses serve to deal with the risk of events which fall short of frustration. Such clauses can be successfully employed to recognize industry or project specific risks.