The Good Friday Agreement took place in 1998 between the British and Irish governments, representatives of the Irish republican movement and representatives of the Northern Irish loyalists to end the conflict known as The Troubles..
On 23 May 1998 the Agreement got the support of the voters of Northern Ireland in a referendum. Also on the same day, voters in the Republic of Ireland voted separately to change their constitution in line with the Agreement.
play Reaction to Good Friday Agreement. John Major, Bill Clinton and the people of Belfast react to the Good Friday Agreement. President Clinton, former Prime Minister John Major and the people of Belfast give their reaction to the agreement reached in Northern Ireland.
The Belfast Agreement, also known as the Good Friday Agreement, was a political agreement in the Northern Ireland peace process. It was signed in Belfast on 10 April 1998 (Good Friday) by the British and Irish governments and it was supported by most of the political parties in Northern Ireland.
The Good Friday Agreement (or Belfast Agreement) was the most important political development during the Peace Process in Northern Ireland during the 1990s.
The Good Friday Agreement brought to an end the 30 years of sectarian conflict in Northern Ireland known as 'The Troubles'. It was ratified in a referendum in May 1998. The agreement set up a power-sharing assembly to govern Northern Ireland by cross-community consent. The deal proved difficult to implement and was amended by the St Andrew's Agreement in 2006. Photo: British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Irish Taoiseach Bertie Ahern sign the Good Friday Agreement (Press Association).
The Belfast Agreement is also known as the Good Friday Agreement, because it was reached on Good Friday, 10 April 1998. It was an agreement, between the British and Irish governments and most of the political parties in Northern Ireland, about how Northern Ireland should be governed.
The Good Friday Agreement was little short of an historic breakthrough. The 65-page document, signed in 1998, sought to address relationships within Northern Ireland; between Northern Ireland and the Republic; and between both parts of Ireland and England, Scotland and Wales. The process, however, was gruelling.