Though there are dozens, if not hundreds, of lake monsters around the world, one superstar marine denizen outshines them all: Nessie, the beast said to inhabit Scotland's Loch Ness. Some say it's a myth; others say it's a living dinosaur or even a sea serpent that swam into the lake before it became landlocked.
The legend of the Loch Ness monster is one of the most popular and enduring of all the tall tales of cryptozoology—and ironically, one of the most easily debunked as well. In our book Abominable Science! , Daniel Loxton and I laid the entire myth to rest about as conclusively as one can debunk something.
Besides, Loch Ness is landlocked and well above sea level, so there is no way for a large sea creature to get there, especially since we know plesiosaurs could not crawl on land. Cultural: As Daniel Loxton and I showed in our book, the “plesiosaur” meme about the Loch Ness monster is a recent invention.
If I had a million quid .. what I would do at Loch Ness! The Nessie search has always been underfunded and reliant on donors. That doesn't mean nothing worthy has not been done but too many have presumed lack of results is not due to funding issues but ... because nothing is there.
The Loch Ness Monster, better known as “Nessie”, is located in Loch Ness in the Highlands of Scotland. The lake is 23 miles long, about 1 mile wide, and it runs southwest to northeast.
From the royal stable of thoroughbreds to her loft of racing pigeons, the Queen’s fascination with creatures great and small is a lifelong affair. But until now nothing has been known of the monarch’s passion for another sizeable beast of her dominion-the Loch Ness Monster.
Many have tried and failed to prove the existence of the Loch Ness Monster-now Google has joined the search. On the banks of Loch Ness (Photo: Google). The firm has, with the help of divers and local experts, used its Street View cameras to capture parts of the Scottish loch, the reputed home of the famous cryptid.
The Loch Ness monster story is buoyed by occasional photographs and sightings, though there is no hard evidence of Nessie's existence: no bodies (or even parts of bodies) have been found on the lake bottom or washed ashore.
Dozens of inconclusive and ambiguous photos, films, and videos have surfaced over the years, but the monster apparently has not. Loch Ness itself has been repeatedly searched for more than 70 years, using everything from miniature submarines to divers.