While many contractors will advise against installing it yourself, and it is indeed a big job, it is something you can do yourself. The ultimate question that you will have to ask yourself is whether it is worth it. It will cost a contractor anywhere from $500 to $5,000 to install a forced air heating system. There can be significant savings in installing the system yourself. There are several considerations you will have to keep in mind before doing so yourself.
1 With existing usable ductwork, replacing an oil-fired furnace typically costs $2,000-$5,000 for a basic installation, but it can be $6,000-$10,000 or more for complex installations. Had forced air furnace with .96 efficiency, ducting & 18 Seer/12 eer/4cop heat pump installed with new ducting in connecticut. Works well-ac bill for 1960's wall units was about 30 dollars a day before now hardly registers. Heating costs have declined nearly 80% from 1960's baseboard electric system.
Homeowners hiring an HVAC company for forced-air gas furnace installation should be aware that the average cost for the furnace unit itself is generally around $800. Because labor can take up to 8 hours or more, installation costs tend to make up a decent chunk of the total expense. Other Costs and Considerations. When deciding to have a forced-air gas furnace installed in one's home, there are some factors that should be kept in mind, especially concerning cost. Homeowners should be aware that forced-air gas furnace installation is not a do-it-yourself job.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Forced Air Furnace Installation project. For a basic 1 furnace project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Forced Air Furnace ranges between $2,606.65 - $3,280.77 per furnace. To estimate costs for your project: 1
Adding a new forced-air electric heating system can cost $4,000 for a small house with vents and ducts that are in good condition. If the contractor needs to install new vents or make significant alterations to the structure, the price can increase to $10,000 or more. Electric forced-air heating systems feature a unique design that is easy to install within an existing central-air system. The design also cleverly allows for the future addition of central air conditioning.
The Costs. The maximum average cost to buy and install a forced-air gas furnace is $1,600. The minimum average cost to buy and install a forced-air gas furnace is $1,300. It is never a bad idea to consult an HVAC specialist, such as a local technician, before making a decision on which type of system is right for a home. Other Costs and Considerations. When deciding to have a forced-air gas furnace installed in one's home, there are some factors that should be kept in mind, especially concerning cost. Homeowners should be aware that forced-air gas furnace installation is not a do-it-yourself job.
Do you need to know the average cost to install Forced Air Heating Systems in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Forced Air Heating System job options and costs? Forced Air Heating Systems-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors.
Labor Costs. Installation of the new furnace will add an extra $400 to $600 to the purchase price. It typically takes less than 10 hours for a contractor to install a new furnace. Most contractors will include removal of the old furnace as part of the quote, but some contractors charge an additional fee. Electric forced-air heating systems feature a unique design that is easy to install within an existing central-air system. The design also cleverly allows for the future addition of central air conditioning.
Many homeowners, with radiant heating systems, find that the heating is more comfortable. Disadvantages of radiant heating systems include:  Higher installation costs. Radiant systems typically cost 40% to 60% more to install than comparable forced-air heating systems.  No provision for cooling the home. The cost of a radiant heating system, combined with central cooling, would be difficult to justify economically. 
1 The homewyse Forced Air Heating System cost estimates do not include costs for new installation of, repairs to, or relocation of existing ducting, electrical connection, fuel supply line and exhaust vent systems. Forced Air Heating Systems-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors.