Sago palm. Cycas_ spp. Sago palm is not a true palm, but rather belongs to an ancient group of plants called cycads. Its stiff leaves resemble those of palm or the fronds of a fern. It's easy to grow, thriving indoors or out. It grows well in the landscape or indoors in a container. 
The sago palm is a tropical plant that cannot survive cold climates. The sago palm (Cycas revoluta) is not a true palm -- it is more closely related to evergreen conifers than palm trees. The plant is native to Japan and grows outdoors as an evergreen in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 9 through 11. 
A. Congratulations! You are fortunate, as you have both a male and a female Sago Palm. What you are describing are the male and female flowers of the Sago Palm, which by the way, is not really a palm at all. What we have always been taught to call a Sago Palm is actually a Cycad.
The sago palm (Cycas revoluta) is a popular houseplant known for its feathery foliage and ease of care. In fact, this is a great plant for beginners and makes an interesting addition to nearly any room. It can even be grown outdoors. 
Sago Palm. The sago palm is the only cycas plant from its genus which is sold in garden stores for growing indoors, named cycas revoluta. Although, this species is not a true palm – it has the appearance of a palm, with its feather like fronds. These fronds also look very similar to some ferns.
Sago palms (Metroxylon sagu) in New Guinea. Sago /ˈseɪɡoʊ/ is a starch extracted from the spongy centre, or pith, of various tropical palm stems, especially Metroxylon sagu. It is a major staple food for the lowland peoples of New Guinea and the Moluccas, where it is called saksak, rabia and sagu. Sago is extracted from the sago cycad by cutting the pith from the stem, root and seeds of the cycads, grinding the pith to a coarse flour and then washing it carefully and repeatedly to leach out the natural toxins. The starchy residue is then dried and cooked, producing a starch similar to palm sago/sabudana.
Cycas revoluta (Sotetsu [Japanese ソテツ ], sago palm, king sago, sago cycad, Japanese sago palm), is a species of gymnosperm in the family Cycadaceae, native to southern Japan including the Ryukyu Islands. It is one of several species used for the production of sago, as well as an ornamental plant. 
The sago cycad is also commonly known (confusingly) as the sago palm, although this is a misnomer as cycads are not palms. Extracting edible starch from the sago cycad requires special care due to the poisonous nature of cycads. Cycad sago is used for many of the same purposes as palm sago. Sago is extracted from the sago cycad by cutting the pith from the stem, root and seeds of the cycads, grinding the pith to a coarse flour and then washing it carefully and repeatedly to leach out the natural toxins. The starchy residue is then dried and cooked, producing a starch similar to palm sago/sabudana.