DEFINITION of 'Corporate Governance'. The system of rules, practices and processes by which a company is directed and controlled. Corporate governance essentially involves balancing the interests of the many stakeholders in a company-these include its shareholders, management, customers, suppliers, financiers, government and the community. Since corporate governance also provides the framework for attaining a company's objectives, it encompasses practically every sphere of management, from action plans and internal controls to performance measurement and corporate disclosure. Next Up.
10 people found this helpful. Corporate governance broadly refers to the mechanisms, relations, and processes by which a corperation is controlled and is directed; involves balancing the many interests of the stakeholders of a corporation. 6 people found this helpful. Definition. The framework of rules and practices by which a board of directors ensures accountability, fairness, and transparency in a company's relationship with its all stakeholders (financiers, customers, management, employees, government, and the community).
Definition of corporate governance. Economists have long noted that publicly traded companies suffer from an incentive problem. The people who run the company (management) are not the same as the people who own the company (shareholders) or who otherwise have a stake in its success (stakeholders). Other constituents such as creditors, customers, suppliers, labour unions, the media, and regulators also play a role in corporate governance by making sure that management behaves appropriately. Example. It is easier to point out examples of “bad” governance than “good”
A corporate governance statement is an overview of the processes by which a company is directed. Typically, it is directed at shareholders and potential shareholders in the interest of complete corporate transparency, a concept that implies that all the shareholders should know exactly how the company is being operated. A corporate governance statement can be used to limit abuse of power by the company's board of directors. A corporate governance statement will speak to the roles and responsibilities of the officers of the company. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow.
Definition of Corporate Governance. The definition of corporate governance most widely used is the system by which companies are directed and controlled (Cadbury Committee, 1992). Corporate governance involves a set of relationships between a company’s management, its board, its shareholders and other stakeholders.
ARIS Risk and Compliance Manager. Corporate governance is a term that refers broadly to the rules, processes, or laws by which businesses are operated, regulated, and controlled. 
Because the corporate governance statement is generally for the benefit of the shareholders, how the board and the officers interact with the shareholders is detailed in the statement. Further, it often details the way individual shareholders may directly interact with the board or its officers. A corporate governance statement can be used to limit abuse of power by the company's board of directors. A corporate governance statement will speak to the roles and responsibilities of the officers of the company. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow.
Corporate governance broadly refers to the mechanisms, processes and relations by which corporations are controlled and directed. Internal stakeholders are the board of directors, executives, and other employees. Much of the contemporary interest in corporate governance is concerned with mitigation of the conflicts of interests between stakeholders.