A Prezi is a different sort of presentation tool that unlike presentation tools of the past that are linear in nature, here you have a canvas and the direction of your presentation can go virtually anywhere. 
1 Do not make a title page for your paper unless specifically requested. 2  In the upper left-hand corner of the first page, list your name, your instructor's name, the course, and the date. 3  Again, be sure to use double-spaced text. 4  Double space again and center the title. 1 Indent the first line of paragraphs one half-inch from the left margin. 2  MLA recommends that you use the Tab key as opposed to pushing the Space Bar five times. 3  Create a header that numbers all pages consecutively in the upper right-hand corner, one-half inch from the top and flush with the right margin.
PowerPoint on Computer. If you simply have the PowerPoint on your computer, cite the presentation using the digital file format. Include as much information as you have, such as the author's name, the name of the presentation, the date the file was created and the medium. For example: Smith, Jane. Emily Dickinson.. May 2011. The Modern Language Association system of style, used mainly by writers in literature and the humanities, provides formats to cite research from sources such as a PowerPoint presentation.
There are two places where you'll need to cite your sources. First, you'll name your sources in your essay. Every piece of outside information will appear next to a source; this is called an in-text citation. Then, at the very end of your essay, you'll compile a list of ALL the sources you used. The sentence before it introduces the quote with a colon, rather than a period or comma. There parenthetical citation is AFTER the period. 1. The Works Cited page, as mentioned earlier, is a page at the very end of your paper where you list the sources you used in the paper itself. It should... begin on a new page with its own page number, have the words Works Cited centered at the top, be double-spaced, and include ALL sources in alphabetical order
When citing online lecture notes, be sure to provide the file format in brackets after the lecture title (e.g. PowerPoint slides, Word document). Hallam, A. Duality in consumer theory [PDF document]. Retrieved from Lecture Notes Online Web site: http://www.econ.iastate.edu/classes/econ501/Hallam/. index.html. Roberts, K. F. (1998). Federal regulations of chemicals in the environment [PowerPoint slides]
Your last name and the page number in the upper right corner of every page, half an inch from the edge of the page. As well as guidelines on how to cite your sources, MLA has guidelines for how your paper should look. First let's go over the rules, and then we'll take a look at an example. The sentence before it introduces the quote with a colon, rather than a period or comma. There parenthetical citation is AFTER the period. 1. The Works Cited page, as mentioned earlier, is a page at the very end of your paper where you list the sources you used in the paper itself. It should... begin on a new page with its own page number, have the words Works Cited centered at the top, be double-spaced, and include ALL sources in alphabetical order
This resource, updated to reflect the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers (7 th ed.) and the MLA Style Manual and Guide to Scholarly Publishing (3 rd ed.), offers examples for the general format of MLA research papers, in-text citations, endnotes/footnotes, and the Works Cited page. 
Formatting the First Page of Your Paper. 1  Do not make a title page for your paper unless specifically requested. 2  In the upper left-hand corner of the first page, list your name, your instructor's name, the course, and the date. 3  Again, be sure to use double-spaced text. 4  Double space again and center the title. 1 Indent the first line of paragraphs one half-inch from the left margin. 2  MLA recommends that you use the Tab key as opposed to pushing the Space Bar five times. 3  Create a header that numbers all pages consecutively in the upper right-hand corner, one-half inch from the top and flush with the right margin.
1 Head this section Works Cited and center the heading. 2  Include only sources cited in your paper. 3  Use a hanging indention: the first line of each entry is flush left, and subsequent lines in the entry are indented. 4  The best way to do this is to choose hanging indention in the options for formatting paragraphs. 1 Space once after all punctuation. 2  Arrange entries in alphabetical order by last name of author. 3  If the author's name is unknown, alphabetize by the title, ignoring any A, An, or The. 4  Use full names of authors as stated in the original publication.