1 You need to do at least 6 months Volunteering and a minimum of 6 months on either Physical or Skills and 3 months on the other. 2  It’s up to you which one you do for longer. 3  If you did Bronze, you can choose the same activity for Silver, but you need to show development in it. 4  It's best to try something new!
1 A Silver DofE programme has 4 sections, Volunteering, Physical, Skills and Expedition. 2  You need to do at least 6 months Volunteering and a minimum of 6 months on either Physical or Skills and 3 months on the other. 3  It’s up to you which one you do for longer.
Buying tents for DofE expeditions: the golden rule is flexibility. 1  DofE centres will usually have Bronze, Silver and Gold expeditions and gender splits each year. 2  It's often a good idea to buy a large two person or large three person tent that can also act as a three or a four person tent for many Bronze groups.
Tents for DofE expeditions. Most tents for DofE expeditions come in two to four person sizes to allow for two or three tents per expedition team and flexibility for mixed gender teams. DofE Kit Guide. Essential advice from the experts on the kit you'll need.
Tents. Expert advice and jargon busting for expedition tents. DofE Kit Guide. Essential advice from the experts on the kit you'll need. DofE Kit List. Essential checklist to ensure you have all the kit you'll need. 10 kit questions... to ask yourself before getting your expedition kit together or spending any money.
As an Oxfordshire Duke of Edinburgh Centre we can provide all levels of DofE from Bronze to Gold, so if you would like to volunteer, learn a new skill, complete your expedition, do your residential or the whole award we can help you out. If you need support for any of your DofE Award, get in touch.
The Duke of Edinburgh's Award is a personal programme that can be undertaken at Bronze, Silver or Gold level. Some people do all of them, some people do just one or two-you can start at any level providing you meet the age requirements of 14 for Bronze, 15 for Silver and 16 for Gold.