A vaccine is another method used to help the body fight disease. A vaccine exposes the immune system to an antigen. This triggers the immune system to recognize and destroy that protein or related materials. There are two types of cancer vaccines: prevention vaccines and treatment vaccines. Prevention vaccine. Interferons. Interferons help the immune system fight cancer and may slow the growth of cancer cells. An interferon made in a laboratory, called interferon alpha (Roferon-A [2a], Intron A [2b], Alferon [2a]), is the most common type of interferon used in cancer treatment.
A monoclonal antibody is directed against a specific protein in the cancer cells, and it does not affect the cells that do not have that protein. When a monoclonal antibody attaches to a cancer cell, they may accomplish the following goals: Allow the immune system to destroy the cancer cell. Interferons. Interferons help the immune system fight cancer and may slow the growth of cancer cells. An interferon made in a laboratory, called interferon alpha (Roferon-A [2a], Intron A [2b], Alferon [2a]), is the most common type of interferon used in cancer treatment.
antigen. Substance that the body recognizes as foreign; evokes an immune response. Most antigens are proteins or protein fragments found on the surface of bacteria, viruses, or organ transplant tissue cells. B cell (B lymphocyte). Lymphocyte that originates in the bone marrow and transforms into a plasma cell to secrete antibodies. The B refers to the bursa of Fabricius, an organ in birds in which B cell differentiation and growth were first noted to occur.
An antigen specifically induces the production of antibodies which can bind to it and neutralise it. While most vaccines work by inducing B lymphocytes to produce antibodies (see below), activation of T-cells — another type of immune system cell that helps protect against disease — is also important for some vaccines. 
Once the antibodies bind to the antigens of the invaders, the macrophages and other killer cells find it simpler to look for the tagged cells and kill them. The work of B cells is called the humoral immune response, or simply the antibody response. The B cell forms memory cells that remember the infection for life and prepares the body for arresting the infection next time around.
Immunity is the body’s way of preventing disease. Children are born with an immune system composed of cells, glands, organs, and fluids located throughout the body. The immune system recognizes germs that enter the body as foreign invaders” (called antigens) and produces proteins called antibodies to fight them. But the antigens in vaccines are either killed, or weakened to the point that they don’t cause disease. However, they are strong enough to make the immune system produce antibodies that lead to immunity. In other words, a vaccine is a safer substitute for a child’s first exposure to a disease.
What the immune system does. The immune system protects the body against illness and infection caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi or parasites. It is really a collection of reactions and responses that the body makes to damaged cells or infection. So it is sometimes called the immune response. B cells react against invading bacteria or viruses by making proteins called antibodies. The antibody made is different for each different type of germ (bug). The antibody locks onto the surface of the invading bacteria or virus.
Monoclonal antibodies. Vaccines are not the only form of medical treatment which relies on the immune system. Monoclonal antibodies are antibodies which are made to target particular cells or chemicals in the body. Some lymphocytes (called B lymphocytes) make antibodies but cannot divide. 1 Diagnosis of disease-monoclonal antibodies can be made which bind to specific antigens on blood clots or on cancer cells. 2  The monoclonal antibodies can also carry markers which make it easy for doctors to see where they have built up.
The immune system protects the body against illness and infection caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi or parasites. It is really a collection of reactions and responses that the body makes to damaged cells or infection. B cells react against invading bacteria or viruses by making proteins called antibodies. The antibody made is different for each different type of germ (bug). The antibody locks onto the surface of the invading bacteria or virus.