Let’s face it, under eye wrinkles are probably the first thing that we see when we start to worry about our age. They appear out of nowhere like little ninjas and steal your youth and smooth skin. In reality, they are a result of our thin skin more so than they are a result of our age. When you look for an anti-wrinkle eye cream, you are actually looking for a formulated cream that you would use to treat wrinkles all around the eye. The chosen products will reduce your fine lines and wrinkles, but may also help with hyperpigmentation and bags. It can be a bit overwhelming to look for the best cream.
Another Top Cause of Wrinkles: Smoking. Beyond question, smoking is bad for your skin. Smoking accelerates the aging process, wrinkling skin and making you look old beyond your years. Early wrinkling is visible under a microscope in smokers as young as 20. The more years and packs smoked, the more likely wrinkles will occur. Wrinkles are also more likely to be deeper in smokers. Tobacco smoke gives skin an unhealthy color and coarse texture, as well. 1  What you can do: Stop smoking 2  ! Effective tools are available at WebMD and throughout the Internet.
Rona Berg, in her book, Beauty the New Basics, suggests you take the skin test to tell what skin type you have. To do this, wash your face, pat it dry, then take a few pieces of rice paper or lens-cleaning tissue paper and press on different spots on your face. If your skin is oily, the paper will stick, pick up oily spots and become translucent. If the paper doesn't stick or pick up any oily spots, your skin is likely dry. If it sticks in your t-zone (forehead, nose and chin) then you have combination (or normal) skin. Most women actually have combination skin. Here are the 5 different skin types and their tell-tale characteristics
Tanning is a sign of skin damage, evidence that the sun's ultraviolet rays have penetrated and damaged the skin's support structure. Most wrinkles are caused by sun exposure throughout life -- and it's never too late to halt the process. 1  What you can do: Wear sunscreen with sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 15. 2  The hands and face are particularly vulnerable to sun damage, due to their frequent exposure. The more years and packs smoked, the more likely wrinkles will occur. Wrinkles are also more likely to be deeper in smokers. Tobacco smoke gives skin an unhealthy color and coarse texture, as well. 1  What you can do: Stop smoking 2  ! Effective tools are available at WebMD and throughout the Internet.
Wrinkles. Wrinkles mainly happen on the parts of the body that get the most sun exposure, including the face, neck, the backs of the hands, and the tops of the forearms. Wrinkles fall into two categories: fine, surface lines and deeper furrows. 
The way you sleep may actually cause wrinkles. No matter how soft your pillow, it puts pressure on your face each night. Over years, this can etch lines into your chin, cheeks, or forehead. Your personal pattern of sleep lines depends on how you tend to rest your face on the pillow. 1  What you can do: Sleep on your back. The more years and packs smoked, the more likely wrinkles will occur. Wrinkles are also more likely to be deeper in smokers. Tobacco smoke gives skin an unhealthy color and coarse texture, as well. 1  What you can do: Stop smoking 2  ! Effective tools are available at WebMD and throughout the Internet.
When your skin is dry, wrinkles become accentuated, he says, since parched skin tends to look flat and dull, which brings out fine lines and creases. Water also flushes out any toxins the body collects, which can have a negative impact on your skin. Photo: Jupiterimages/Thinkstock. 7. 8. Encouraging collagen to form can help reduce the appearance of wrinkles. Share. Tweet. Pin. E-mail. Collagen is a main building block of the skin that keeps it firm and elastic.
Skin ages all over the body but much more so where there has been sun exposure. Changes brought on by sun damage (photoaging) include dryness (really roughness), sagginess, skin growths like keratoses, lentigos ( liver spots), and wrinkles. Most wrinkles associated with aging appear on the parts of the body where sun exposure is greatest. These especially include the hairless scalp, face, neck, the backs of the hands, and the tops of the forearms. Wrinkles come in two categories: fine surface lines and deep furrows. Many products and procedures promise to reduce wrinkles. Some do little or nothing (like the products that claim they reduce the appearance of fine lines, which means that they don't reduce the lines themselves). Others can achieve a fair amount of success.
1 of. next. We all know the 4-1-1 on what causes wrinkles: aging, sun damage, and a life full of laughter. (Wear those crow’s feet as a badge of honor!) But if your wrinkles could talk, they could reveal a lot more than whether or not you go in the sun. They can tell you about your overall health and wellbeing, and give you clues to future concerns