Understanding Basics of Natural Stone Sedimentary stone is created by the hardening of sediment layers by pressure and low heat, usually under water. It often consists of layers or strata of sand, clay or organic sediments. The hardness and strength of sedimentary stone varies considerably. List of important things to remember when you select flagstone: 1  Choose flagstone that's available in as many shapes, sizes and thicknesses as possible. 2  Beware that glittery flagstone can lose this sparkle under wear and tear. 3  Brightly colored stone may prove softer than more uniform muted tones.
Flagstone is a sedimentary rock that is split into layers along bedding planes. Flagstone is usually a form of a sandstone composed of feldspar and quartz and is arenaceous in grain size (0.16 mm – 2 mm in diameter). The material that binds flagstone is usually composed of silica, calcite, or iron oxide. The rock color usually comes from these cementing materials. Typical flagstone colors are red, blue, and buff, though exotic colors exist.
A guide to the differences between commonly used stones for outdoor patios, and walkways. Flagstone is a generic term for sedimentary rock split into layers. It is a term used to describe various types of stone laid as “flags” in patterns on outdoor surfaces. Below are types of stone that are typically quarried and laid as flagstone
Flagstone is a type of flat stone commonly used for paving slabs as in flagstone patio or flagstone walkway. It can be described as building and landscaping stone that is used, other than paving, for fencing and roofing as well. 
Flagstone is a generic description of flat stone that is most often used in building and landscaping. It is a sedimentary stone that is split into thin layers, allowing it to be used in many applications. Flagstone usually is a sandstone that contains feldspar and quartz, often cemented together with calcium, silica or iron oxide.
In some cases, flagstone is technically just a generic term for all sedimentary rock that is split into layers for landscaping and home improvement purposes. Sometimes, flagstone falls under other categories of stone such as sandstone, quartzite, limestone, bluestone, basalt, slate and travertine. 
Appearance. Flagstone is quarried in many places where there is sedimentary stone, including Texas, Arizona, Pennsylvania and the west coast of Ireland. Where the stone is formed and what its primary binding materials are will determine the stone's predominant color. It is a sedimentary stone that is split into thin layers, allowing it to be used in many applications. Flagstone usually is a sandstone that contains feldspar and quartz, often cemented together with calcium, silica or iron oxide.
Flagstone (flag) is a generic flat stone, usually used for paving slabs or walkways, patios, fences and roofing. It may be used for memorials, headstones, facades and other constructions. The material that binds flagstone is usually composed of silica, calcite, or iron oxide. The rock color usually comes from these cementing materials. Typical flagstone colors are red, blue, and buff, though exotic colors exist.