Occult symbols are fast replacing Christian symbols in our culture. Therefore, we encourage you to use this list to warn others, especially Christian children who intentionally wear and display them because they are popular. Keep in mind that some of these symbols have double meanings. For example, the pentagram has been used to transmit occult power in all kinds of rituals for centuries, but to Christians the same shape may simply represent a star -- a special part of God's creation. Pointing down, it symbolizes water, female sexuality, goddess religions and homosexuality. See a large picture of Kabbalistic triangles and how they are used together in ritual magic. UNICORN: To many New Agers, it means power, purification, healing, wisdom, self-knowledge, renewal and eternal life.
Here is a very simple, but at the same time quite an insightful personality test. All you have to do is to look at the proposed geometric shapes and choose the one that you think best represents you as a person. In other words, choose the shape that you can clearly identify yourself with. 
By clicking on the symbols, you can find each of their meanings. But each symbol -- even the cross -- will be presented from an occult or universalist perspective. See Heresy in high places. ALL-SEEING EYE: A universal symbol representing spiritual sight, inner vision, higher knowledge, insight into occult mysteries. Look at your $1 bill. EYE in top Triangle of the PYRAMID: Masonic symbol for the all-seeing eye of god-an mystical distortion of the omniscient (all-knowing) Biblical God. Pointing down, it symbolizes water, female sexuality, goddess religions and homosexuality. See a large picture of Kabbalistic triangles and how they are used together in ritual magic. UNICORN: To many New Agers, it means power, purification, healing, wisdom, self-knowledge, renewal and eternal life.
The triquetra is a three part ancient symbol comprised of three interlocked vesica pices, often used to represent people or concepts in groups of three. Also known as the trinity knot and Celtic triangle, it has been found in Celtic art, paganism and also has been used in Christianity. 
These are primordial images or patterns of behavior that we are born with. The great Greek philosopher, Plato is credited with originating the concept of Archetypes. Afterwards, it was advanced by the famous Swiss psychiatrist, Carl Jung in his analysis of human behavior. The archetypes and the symbols help you interpret the larger meaning of life and the changes that shape it. The totality of human experiences that your deeper mind carries enables you to face life’s challenges.
Knowledge is a familiarity, awareness or understanding of someone or something, such as facts, information, descriptions, or skills, which is acquired through experience or education by perceiving, discovering, or learning. Knowledge can refer to a theoretical or practical understanding of a subject. It can be implicit (as with practical skill or expertise) or explicit (as with the theoretical understanding of a subject); it can be more or less formal or systematic.
1 of 1. 1. Because basic geometric shapes are so simplistic in construction, they are found all over the world with a wide variety of uses and meanings. However, there are a variety of meanings that are more commonly ascribed to these shapes, particular when used in a religious or magical context
From the basic forms of the 1 dimensional geometrical symbols we move to the more complex realm of sacred geometry-the realm of 3 Dimensional form. Sacred Geometry is a term used to describe patterns, shapes and forms that are part of the make up of all living things and that regularly occur in nature. 
The circle is a symbol of eternity and the path of the sun in the sky and also the shape of the sun itself and so they are solar symbols and symbolic of the source of light and ultimate energy.. Crosses symbolize the bridge to the “other world” or “worlds” and also to higher energy and knowledge. 