By Robert Longley. A presidential veto is the rejection of a bill passed by the majority votes of both the House of Representatives and the Senate. While Congress can vote to override a presidential veto, causing the bill to become law without the president's approval, this is rarely done. More often than not, the threat of presidential veto is sufficient motivation for Congress to modify the bill prior to its final passage.
Overriding a presidential veto requires both houses of Congress to approve the bill by a two-thirds majority, according to the US Constitution. The U.S. Supreme Court can rule a law as unconstitutional.
Should both houses of Congress successfully vote to override a presidential veto, the bill becomes law. According the the Congressional Research service, from 1789 through 2004, only 106 of 1,484 regular presidential vetoes were overridden by Congress.
1 If two-thirds of both houses of Congress vote successfully to override the veto, the bill becomes a law. 2  If the House and Senate do not override the veto, the bill dies and does not become a law. 3  A tally of presidential vetoes and pocket vetoes is available on the Clerk's website in Historical Highlights.
Congress can override a presidential veto, although it rarely exercises this power. 2/3rd of the members of each chamber who are present must vote to override the president's veto in a roll-call vote.
Congress can override a veto by passing the act by a two-thirds vote in both the House and the. Senate. (Usually an act is passed with a simple majority.) This check prevents the President from. blocking an act when significant support for it exists.
The regular veto is a qualified negative veto. The President returns the unsigned legislation to the originating house of Congress within a 10 day period usually with a memorandum of disapproval or a “veto message.” Congress can override the President’s decision if it musters the necessary two–thirds vote of each house.
In order for congress to override presidential vetoes there has to be two thirds vote by congress. This means that two thirds of congress must vote against the President. This is what margin is required to override a presidential veto.