O racle Metric Global Cache Average Current Get Time. Oracle Tips by Burleson Consulting. The Global Cache Average Current Get Time Oracle metric is the average current get time, measured in hundredths of a second. 
O racle Metric Average Read Time Oracle Tips by Burleson Consulting. The Average Read Time Oracle metric is the amount of time spent for each read against the datafile. This number may be as important as the number of reads against the file. By comparing read times across multiple datafiles will show you which datafiles are slower than others. You may also want to consider information provided by Oracle MOSC in that you  can find out the average time taken for I/O from AVGIOTIM in V$FILESTAT. This, and many other Oracle performance metrics are discussed in my book Oracle Tuning by Rampant TechPress.
For example, the statistics shown above report that the maximum response time per user transaction has been only .28 second, with the average response time being a blazing .08 second. Oracle certainly wouldn't be to blame in this case. The point is that Oracle Database 10g makes it a lot easier to conduct response-time analysis on SQL statements with simplified data dictionary views, as opposed to the time-consuming trace-and-digest method.
Submitted by admin on Wed, 2004-08-04 14:13. Oracle allows two date values to be subtracted from each other returning a numeric value indicating the number of days between the two dates (may be a fraction). This example will show how to relate it back to a time value. Let's investigate some solutions
The IO timing results showed that the average read time dropped from 0.279 milliseconds to 0.264 milliseconds per read, the major change being in the average write time which dropped from an average of 5.646 milliseconds to 1.324 milliseconds. You may also want to consider information provided by Oracle MOSC in that you  can find out the average time taken for I/O from AVGIOTIM in V$FILESTAT. This, and many other Oracle performance metrics are discussed in my book Oracle Tuning by Rampant TechPress.
Oracle, for example, defaults all such date calculations to days, so the average_ship_days result will be a number of days. If you aren't sure your database automatically produces results in days for date calculations, look for some sort of date conversion function. select avg(to_days(ship_date) - to_days(order_date)) as average_ship_days from sales_order. select avg(ship_date) as average_ship_date from sales_order. I need to know how to use a avg function with the ship_date in the sales_order table.
Overview. If you store date and time information in Oracle, you have two different options for the column's datatype-DATE and TIMESTAMP. DATE is the datatype that we are all familiar with when we think about representing date and time values
The response time is affected by factors such as network bandwidth, number of users, number and type of requests submitted, and average think time. In this section, response time refers to the mean, or average, response time. Each type of request has its own minimal response time. Average think time, T think, is three seconds per request. Thus, the calculation of response time is: T response = n/r-T think = (5000/ 1000) - 3 sec. = 5 - 3 sec. Therefore, the response time is two seconds.