As the Kombucha culture digests the sugar it produces a range of organic acids like glucuronic acid, gluconic acid, lactic acid, acetic acid, butyric acid, malic acid and usnic acid; vitamins, particularly B vitamins and vitamin C; as well as amino acids, enzymes. The origins of Kombucha have become lost in the mists of time. It is thought to have originated in the Far East, probably China, and has been consumed there for at least two thousand years. The first recorded use of kombucha comes from China in 221 BC during the Tsin Dynasty. It was known as The Tea of Immortality.
Kombucha is a colony or culture of yeast and other microorganisms embedded in a pure cellulose pancake.. When the pancake is grown in a blend of tea and sugar, it transforms the liquid into a refreshingly lightly sparkling, sweet and sour drink with a fruity fragrance full of health giving acids and nutrients. 
Kombucha (kom·boo·cha) is a slightly fizzy and very refreshing tea drink packed with health benefits. Kombucha is a combination of tea, sugar, and a powerful living culture called SCOBY. The Kombucha SCOBY is made up of many different bacteria including Gluconacetobacter, which is unique to Kombucha. The healthy bacteria in Kombucha play a huge role in the fermentation process and its’s many health benefits. The color of Kombucha ranges from a pale to dark brown depending on the type of tea used.
Kombucha including the culture. Kombucha refers to any of a variety of fermented, lightly effervescent sweetened black or green tea drinks that are commonly used as functional beverages for their unsubstantiated health benefits. These names translate literally to tea fungus or tea mushroom.. Kombucha has been claimed to cure many diseases and to have a wide range of health benefits; however, there is a lack of high-quality evidence to support these claims.
Now that you know where to get your Organic Kombucha Mushroom or Fungus you can make your own fermented beverages. Kombucha Tea is a popular health promoting beverage and natural folk remedy. The Kombucha culture looks like a white rubbery pancake. It is a symbiotic culture of yeast and other microorganisms. The culture is placed in black or green tea with sugar and turns the tea into health giving acids and nutrients. 
What is kombucha? Kombucha is a fermented tea made by adding a culture of bacteria and yeast to a solution of tea, sugar and sometimes fruit juice and other flavorings. It’s often referred to as “mushroom-tea” because during the brewing process the bacteria and yeast grow into a mass that resembles a mushroom cap.
A kombucha culture is a symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeast (SCOBY), similar to mother of vinegar, containing one or more species each of bacteria and yeasts, which form a zoogleal mat known as a mother.. These names translate literally to tea fungus or tea mushroom.. Kombucha has been claimed to cure many diseases and to have a wide range of health benefits; however, there is a lack of high-quality evidence to support these claims.
Kombucha is a naturally fermented traditional beverage made from a mother culture and sweetened tea. The mother culture (known as a SCOBY) is a symbiotic colony of healthy yeast and bacteria that has been around for thousands of years. 
K ombucha is a living health drink made by fermenting tea and sugar with the kombucha culture. The result can taste like something between sparkling apple cider and champagne, depending on what kind of tea you use. It's not what you'd imagine fermented tea to taste like. The origins of Kombucha have become lost in the mists of time. It is thought to have originated in the Far East, probably China, and has been consumed there for at least two thousand years. The first recorded use of kombucha comes from China in 221 BC during the Tsin Dynasty. It was known as The Tea of Immortality.
Everything you need to know about Kombucha Tea, Kombucha health benefits and much more category porn videos. Skip to content. Kombucha is a tea-based beverage that is often drunk for its health benefits or medicinal purposes. Kombucha is a living health drink made by fermenting tea and sugar with the Kombucha culture. The result can taste like something between sparkling apple cider and champagne, depending on what kind of tea you use. Kombucha is available commercially and can be made at home by fermenting tea using a visible, solid mass of yeastand bacteria which forms the kombucha culture which is often referred to as the “mushroom” or the “mother”. Comments are closed.