Required Education. To teach in a public secondary school, a bachelor's degree in computer science is usually required. A semester of student teaching is also needed and is usually completed within the bachelor's degree program. A master's degree is typically the minimum educational requirement to teach at a college or university. A career as a computer teacher offers many different opportunities. A computer teacher might cover basic keyboarding and computer functions for teenagers in public school or adults who are updating their work skills in a night class, or they may teach more complicated elements of computer science to college students.
Teachers need years of experience in their field of expertise. Although career and technical education teachers typically need a bachelor’s degree, some enter the occupation with a high school diploma or an associate’s degree. Career and technical education teachers also need work experience in the subject they teach. 
Private school teachers do not have to be licensed but still need a bachelor's degree. A bachelor's degree may not be needed by preschool teachers and vocational education teachers, who need experience in their field rather than a specific degree.   Education and training. The traditional route to becoming a public school teacher involves completing a bachelor's degree from a teacher education program and then obtaining a license. However, most … States now offer alternative routes to licensure for those who have a college degree in other fields.
Although each of the 50 states has different requirements for obtaining a teacher's license, most mandate the completion of a teacher education program, such as a bachelor's degree program in education and the passage of a state-administered exam. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a teacher. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
Most bachelor's degree programs in education also require students to complete some type of practical fieldwork, usually an internship, at a local school where they work directly under the supervision of a licensed teacher. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a teacher. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
You also could consider a master's degree program, such as a Master in Secondary Education with an emphasis in consumer science, industrial vocations or a related vocational field. A master's program also might be right for you if you're a licensed teacher who wants to add vocational subjects to your teacher's license. If you have work experience in a vocational area but not a bachelor's degree, you might opt to apply for a vocational teacher license. Requirements vary by state, but you'll typically need several years of documented work experience and a high school diploma.
Private school teachers do not have to be licensed  but still need a bachelor's degree. A bachelor's degree may not be  needed by preschool teachers and vocational education teachers, who  need experience in their field rather than a specific degree.   Education and training. 
Every aspiring K-12 educator can enroll in a 4-year bachelor's degree program in education to become a teacher. Individuals who are interested in teaching in middle or secondary school typically also major in the subject that they wish to eventually teach, such as music, mathematics, history, biology or English. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a teacher. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.