Whereas jerky is mostly made of thin strips of meat containing little fat, biltong is made from a large variety of cuts, sometimes containing more than 50% fat by volume. The cuts are generally thicker than other dried meat cuts and the moisture content of the final product varies with taste. A great South African classic. Although many people compare American Jerky with South African Biltong, it is just not the same thing. I helped my Dad to make biltong since I was very young and have made at least 50kg (100 pounds) on my own since I left home.
Biltong is a simple, but wonderful food. Basically, its dried meat, flavoured with herbs and spices and our South African magic! Ours is made using the best cuts of silverside or topside, carefully cut into strips and air-dried. 
1 The meat used in biltong can be much thicker; typically biltong meat is cut in strips approx 1 (25 mm) wide – but can be thicker. 2  Jerky is normally very thin meat. 3  The vinegar, salt and spices in biltong, together with the drying process, cure the meat as well as adding texture and flavour. 
Biltong (pron. bill-tong) is a 400-year old traditional South African beef snack, cured in a unique and highly nutritious way. It is different from American Beef Jerky, in both taste and preparation. The word BILTONG is formed from the Dutch words BIL (meaning meat buttock or hind quarter) and 'TONG meaning strip. So it's just that-a strip of meat. For centuries mankind has preserved meat. Ancient seafarers pickled meat in large wooden barrels and devoured this during the long months they were at sea
Jerky vs Biltong. Biltong is dried and cured meat that is considered a delicacy in South Africa. It can be prepared with the meat of beef or any other game. It is sold in convenience stores, in South Africa, alongside candy bars and is extremely popular. • Biltong is much thicker than jerky and sometimes can replace whole meal. • Jerky can be made without washing with vinegar, whereas biltong preparation requires marinating with vinegar. • Biltong is more popular in South Africa, whereas jerky is more common in US. • Biltong is also used as a teething aid for toddlers.
Noun. 1. biltong-meat that is salted and cut into strips and dried in the sun. jerked meat, jerky, jerk-meat (especially beef) cut in strips and dried in the sun. biltong. n. 1. (Cookery) South African strips of meat dried and cured in the sun. [C19: Afrikaans, from Dutch bil buttock + tong tongue]. (ˈbɪlˌtɔŋ, -ˌtɒŋ).
Biltong is prepared with cuts of meat that follow the grain of the meat. These pieces are washed in vinegar and then hung dried after application of spices. Once dried, biltong is relished as a snack and carried by hunters, campers, and sports lovers to stadiums. Biltong tastes great just taken along with beer. Jerky. Jerky is a form of dried meat that is trimmed to remove all fat and then dried in the air to remove all moisture. Dehydration of meat that takes place helps in preservation. The meat is washed with vinegar and salt is applied so that bacteria do not soil the meat. • Biltong is much thicker than jerky and sometimes can replace whole meal. • Jerky can be made without washing with vinegar, whereas biltong preparation requires marinating with vinegar. • Biltong is more popular in South Africa, whereas jerky is more common in US. • Biltong is also used as a teething aid for toddlers.
Biltong. 4Biltong.com. Biltong is a very popular snack in Southern Africa. If you've ever spent time in Southern Africa (and you're not a vegetarian) you've probably tried biltong. Biltong is similar to beef jerky in that it's all meat -- chewy, salty, raw meat. The difference is that biltong is dried, not smoked (like beef jerky). Biltong is usually made from either beef or game. Game biltong is made from various bucks like impala, kudu, and wildebeest. Ostrich biltong is also great
The most commonly used meat in the making of biltong is beef with the most used cut being the silverside, but it can also be made from a variety of meats from Kudu to Ostrich. It is then trimmed and cut in to strips roughly one or two inches thick. It's a common misconception that biltong and jerky are the same thing when in actual fact they are very different. Jerky is made in much thinner strips than biltong meaning it is often much chewier whereas biltong can sometimes have a bit of pink color left in the middle as it is dried in thicker strips.