You can use natural oils for your skin twice daily or more if needed. Carrot seed oil is an essential oil and rosehip seed oil is a carrier oil. If you are interested in creating your own mix only use up to 10 drops of an essential oil with 1 ounce of a carrier oil. Rosehip seed oil is also high in linoleic acid which is great for mature and acne prone skin. If you still encounter breakouts then this article may help a lot too. I have found natural oils to be extremely helpful for healing my skin, it is a bit of trial and error plus intuition deciding the best oil for your skin.
- Oily Skin: aloe vera gel can be combined with grape seed oil (it regulates the process of skin greasing); - Dry Skin: aloe vera gel + almond oil, avocado oil, rose-hip seed oil or olive oil. To choose the most appropriate oil for your skin, check the properties and uses of 19 healing vegetable and carrier oils. 
Step 2. Add essential oils to your rose hip oil. Although rose hip oil can be rubbed into the skin on its own, it is generally used as a carrier oil blended with essential oils. For every tablespoon of rose hip oil, add 6 drops of one or a blend of essential oils. 
Birgit C on Dec 31, 2014. I have used this pure rosehip seed oil for about 1 year and can tell a difference in the sun damage on my face. There is a distinct lessening of the red broken capillaries that used to be on my cheeks and around my nose. Mary D on Dec 8, 2014. Trying for the first time. Rosehip Seed Oil, and most other non-mineral oils are not greasy and will not make you break out. If you break out while using any dry oil then it's probably not 100% pure. It should absorb into your skin within 5-10 minutes of application. If your skin feels greasy, you've applied too much.
In a moisturizer and as a moisturizer. Rosehip seed oil is often described as a “dry” oil (one that is easily absorbed into your skin, leaving no oily residue). I don’t find this to be completely the case, however. For this reason, I can’t use pure rosehip seed oil as a daily moisturizer, and only do so at night. 1  Daytime moisturizer: I use Rosehip Whip Moisturizer by Eminence. 2  It’s light enough to apply before putting on makeup, but still leaves my skin feeling hydrated—I love it!
Contrary to my facial expression, rosehip seed oil is not deathly boring. In a toner spray. I love reading interviews with professional models about the skincare products they use (I mean, it’s their job to have amazing skin!), and again and again kept seeing rosehip seed oil come up. For this reason, I can’t use pure rosehip seed oil as a daily moisturizer, and only do so at night. 1  Daytime moisturizer: I use Rosehip Whip Moisturizer by Eminence. 2  It’s light enough to apply before putting on makeup, but still leaves my skin feeling hydrated—I love it!
Two ounces of certified organic rosehip seed oil is regularly $10.75, on sale for $8.60. Four ounces of certified organic rosehip seed oil is regularly $18.25, now $14.60. You may order here, and be sure to use the savings code ‘carrieroil20′ at checkout to receive these prices! 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Yes, you can blend these together safely. Roship seed oil is not considered an essential oil and can be applied directly to the skin and tea tree is one of the few essential oils that can be applied Neat which means without diluting. I would use a 60/40 combination. Best Answer: I use organic rosehip oil on my face nightly including the eye area. I also use tea tree oil for minor scapes, burns, bug bites, and an occasional pimple. I personally wouldn't put tea tree oil on my entire face. I use a q-tip and apply the tea tree oil directly to the pimple only to dry it out
Report Abuse. Yes, you can blend these together safely. Roship seed oil is not considered an essential oil and can be applied directly to the skin and tea tree is one of the few essential oils that can be applied Neat which means without diluting. Best Answer: I use organic rosehip oil on my face nightly including the eye area. I also use tea tree oil for minor scapes, burns, bug bites, and an occasional pimple. I personally wouldn't put tea tree oil on my entire face. I use a q-tip and apply the tea tree oil directly to the pimple only to dry it out