Burning and irritation in the lips, mouth and throat can occur. If plant parts are swallowed, vomiting can occur. Oleander, Lily of the Valley, Foxglove. All parts of the plants are poisonous if swallowed or if smoke from a burning plant is inhaled. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, stomach cramps, dizziness, low blood pressure, slow pulse and seizures.
Some plants have physical defenses such as thorns, spines and prickles, but by far the most common type of protection is chemical. Over millennia, through the process of natural selection, plants have evolved the means to produce a vast and complicated array of chemical compounds in order to deter herbivores. 1 The common cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium), a native of North America, can be poisonous to livestock, including horses, cattle, and sheep. 2  Some domestic animals will avoid consuming the plant if other forage is present, but less discriminating animals, such as pigs, will consume the plants and then sicken and die.
DANGEROUS ROADSIDE PLANTS. There are several species of poisonous plants that may be found growing along our highways. While most of these can produce pain and itching that will last a few hours to a few days, some, such as the Giant Hogweed at right, cause blisters, burning and scarring that may last for several years.
A common shade-loving household plant, Dumb Cane is a tropical plant that is among the most poisonous plants in the world. Chewing on any part of this leafy plant causes intense pain in the mouth and throat, excessive salivation, and in rare cases, severe swelling of the throat that can lead to strangulation. The flowering plants are considered among the most poisonous trees in the world and are native to Florida, the Bahamas, the Caribbean, Central America and northern South America. The Spanish name is manzanilla de la muerte: which means little apple of death.
Comments. Submit. Many poisonous plants grow in all parts of California. The plants include native, introduced and cultivated outdoor plants. Some poisonous plants may look harmless and edible; however, they can pose serious risk of illness, injury or death to humans or animal. Identifying poisonous plants is important in preventing such incidences from occurring. 
Poison Ivy, Brazilian Pepper. Touching the leaves or oil from the plant can cause an itchy rash with blisters. Inhaling smoke from burning plants or plants in bloom may cause wheezing or breathing difficulty. All parts of the plants are poisonous if swallowed or if smoke from a burning plant is inhaled. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, stomach cramps, dizziness, low blood pressure, slow pulse and seizures.
Prevention: Find out the names of your house and yard plants. Call the Poison Center at 1-800-222-1222 to see if your plants are toxic. Below is a partial list of common poisonous plants. All parts of the plants are poisonous if swallowed or if smoke from a burning plant is inhaled. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, stomach cramps, dizziness, low blood pressure, slow pulse and seizures.
Poisonous Plants and Safe Plants  Keep all plants away from small children. Teach children never to eat unknown plants.  Different parts of the plant are poisonous. Phone the Poison Control Center before treating a child who has eaten a plant. Follow their directions. 
Common Poisonous Plants and Plant Parts. Vegetation helps sustain life. We eat many plants, herbs and so forth in our daily diet. But, we must remember to be choosy. Some plants, trees or shrubs are potential killers of man. Some part of the ornamental plants or flowers in your yard may contain deadly poison. Many poisonous plants are so common and seemingly innocuous you do not suspect their toxic qualities