Try to use a sock that is similar to your hair color. Tie your hair in a high ponytail. Roll the sock onto itself and slip it over the base of your ponytail. Unroll the sock down your ponytail, leaving about 2 inches of hair at the end. Next, slowly roll the sock back up, tucking your hair over the sock. Method 3 of 3: Using Half-Up Styles. 1. Make beachy waves. Spray your hair with dry shampoo to add texture and then braid your hair. You can use any size braid you’d like. Run your straightener over the braid a few times on high heat. Undo the braid and run your fingers through your hair.
* STEP 2: Brush your hair back into a low ponytail. Shorter side layers can be pinned back with jeweled hair pins or a head band. Get a firm grip around the base of the ponytail and use your other hand to twist the tail into a tight spiral. * STEP 3: Hold the base of the ponytail with one hand, then lift the tail straight up with the other. Secure the opposite side with a second pin. If you're using a hair stick, push the tip up through the right corner of your chignon, so that a thin flat layer rests on top of the stick. Rotate the stick 180 degrees and push it gently through the base of the bun.
If you can pull it into a ponytail and twist it around at least once for a bun, you can do this. First, split your hair into two equal sections, horizontally. Pull the top section up into a high ponytail, and then the bottom section into a slightly lower ponytail right underneath it. 
Make a chunky, textured ponytail. This hair works well with curly hair. If you have straight hair, add loose curls with a curling iron to the top section of your hair. Pull your hair into a pony tail. Use your hands or a comb to separate the curls, adding volume and texture. Hair spray over it when you’ve reached your desired texture to keep the frizz under control and wear all day. Method 3 of 3: Using Half-Up Styles. 1. Make beachy waves. Spray your hair with dry shampoo to add texture and then braid your hair. You can use any size braid you’d like. Run your straightener over the braid a few times on high heat. Undo the braid and run your fingers through your hair.
So there's no point trying to create a ponytail or a chignon, it won't work. However, you can use hair grips to tie it up and keep certain sections in place. To do this, place one of your hands on your head to smooth your hair down. Hold the hair grip between your index finger and thumb and secure your hair in place.. It's hard to create volume with short hair. Volume can be created easily on long hair but it is difficult on short hair. Unless you have a bob
Well, You can start with tying your hair in a ponytail and then take the hair of the tail part and twist it slightly, then wrap the twist loosely around the elastic holding the ponytail. Then pinn the hair down with litle grips or screw'ies. And there's your bun! Secure the opposite side with a second pin. If you're using a hair stick, push the tip up through the right corner of your chignon, so that a thin flat layer rests on top of the stick. Rotate the stick 180 degrees and push it gently through the base of the bun.
Make a side-swept bun. Part your hair to the side that you want your bun to be at. Gather your hair to that side. You want to gather your hair as close to the base of your ear as possible. Place a ponytail at this point in your hair. Use large pins to create your bun. It will be a fun, tousled look. Method 3 of 3: Using Half-Up Styles. 1. Make beachy waves. Spray your hair with dry shampoo to add texture and then braid your hair. You can use any size braid you’d like. Run your straightener over the braid a few times on high heat. Undo the braid and run your fingers through your hair.
Left: Before; Right: After. Once you've put your hair in a ponytail, insert two or three bobby pins halfway inside the elastic toward the crown of your head. Then, fluff your ponytail and flip it over for a fuller look that won't sag or droop. 15. Blot away excess oil with a toilet seat cover. You can also use this hack along your hairline if you wear it in a ponytail a lot or simply don't like to part your hair to get the same results. 10. Make your own salt spray with seltzer water and a teaspoon of sea salt.
Try sweeping it all back like you're going to make a low ponytail, then twist it upward holding your index finger in place so the twist does not pull in the hair above and place a butterfly clip about an inch or so up to hold the twisted part of the hair and let the length of it fall back down over the clip. 