Best Answer: Amoxicillin is the preferred drug for sinus infections. It takes a few days to feel the effects, just like any antibiotic. You should probably also be taking a decongestant like Sudafed (pseudoephedrine) for the congestion. I have a bad sinus infection pressure in head and face my doctor gave me amoxicillin antibiotics. How long does it take for the medicine to start working? it's the 3rd day and I don't notice anything yet... :-\.
Chronic sinusitis. When using antibiotics to treat chronic (long-term) sinusitis, it may be helpful to remember that: 1  The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your general health, how serious your sinusitis is, and the type of antibiotic you are taking. 1 The choice of antibiotic often depends on which antibiotics have worked well for you in the past. 2  If an antibiotic normally used to treat your sinusitis was successful in the past, it may be used again. 3  If it did not work very well, a different antibiotic may be tried
Your child needs to take the medicine called amoxicillin (say: a-moks-i-SIL-in). This information sheet explains what amoxicillin does, how to give it, and what side effects or problems your child may have when he or she takes this medicine. Birth control pills may not work properly while taking amoxicillin, and for 7 days after the course of antibiotics is finished. If your child takes birth control pills, please tell her doctor or pharmacist. If your child is diabetic, amoxicillin may cause false test results with some urine glucose (sugar) tests.
Amoxicillin usually starts working in 24-72 hours showing some improvements if the organism is susceptible to amoxicillin. For me it will work with on 24 hours. I have a bad sinus infection pressure in head and face my doctor gave me amoxicillin antibiotics. How long does it take for the medicine to start working? it's the 3rd day and I don't notice anything yet... :-\.
Amoxicillin often is prescribed based on the level of infection. For example, amoxicillin used to treat an ear infection is often prescribed for 7 to 10 days, or given in three injections. However, for a urinary tract infection, which is often more severe, antibiotics are often taken for 14 days to ensure the infection has fully cleared. For Best Results. Amoxicillin can best work when it is kept in steady levels in the body. For this reason, it is often prescribed to be taken every 8 to 12 hours. If you miss a dose, resume taking the medication as soon as possible. However, do not double up on doses to compensate for any missed dose
Well, it depends upon the type of antibiotic and how serious the infection is. Most antibiotics should work between 24-48 hours. Use the information in this article to decipher whether it is worth waiting or if you should call the doctor, nurse or pharmacist for input. However, if the antibiotics do not kick in right away, doubts will inevitably pop into your mind. Most antibiotics start working 24-48 hours after first taken. Almost every person who takes antibiotics is waiting for them to work and if they do not, they start to wonder when they will start working.
1 The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your general health, how serious your sinusitis is, and the type of antibiotic you are taking. 2  A different antibiotic may be needed if your condition does not begin to improve within 3 to 5 days. 1 The choice of antibiotic often depends on which antibiotics have worked well for you in the past. 2  If an antibiotic normally used to treat your sinusitis was successful in the past, it may be used again. 3  If it did not work very well, a different antibiotic may be tried