Full Definition of NUANCE. 1. : a subtle distinction or variation. 2. : a subtle quality: nicety. 3. : sensibility to, awareness of, or ability to express delicate shadings (as of meaning, feeling, or value). — nu·anced \-ˌaen(ˌän)t, -st(ˈaen)ˈän\ t. St adjective see nuance Defined-for english. language learners 1 Between the lines of lexicographical nuance and quotation, Johnson was paying old debts and seeking out wisdom about himself and his adopted city, as well as compiling perhaps the greatest commonplace book in the history of mankind. — 2 Andrew O'Hagan, New York Review, 27 Apr. 2006.
Nuance Communications is an American multinational computer software technology corporation, headquartered in Burlington, Massachusetts, United States on the outskirts of Boston, that provides speech and imaging applications. Nuance License Manager: kept a watch on the number of concurrent speech calls in use. recclient. recognition client: it is the interface between the IVR speech path and the speech recognizing software, the recserver.
Give nuances to: the effect of the music is nuanced by the social situation of listeners. More example sentences. 1  Each mood and move is perfectly underscored and nuanced by sensitively composed music. 2  So, yes, they talk around the edges-nuancing this, quibbling with that-as they search for an edge in an election year. 1 So, yes, they talk around the edges-nuancing this, quibbling with that-as they search for an edge in an election year. 2  Of course, a ‘blanket ban’ on drinking on public transport will be nuanced much like the smoking ban was.
n. 1. A subtle or slight degree of difference, as in meaning, feeling, or tone; a gradation. 2. Expression or appreciation of subtle shades of meaning, feeling, or tone: a rich artistic performance, full of nuance. tr.v. nu·anced, nu·anc·ing, nu·anc·es
Nuance is a small or subtle distinction. It can also refer to: 1  Nuance (band) , a 1980s dance music group. 2  Nuance Communications, a company that sells voice and productivity software. 
adjective. The definition of nuanced is done with extreme care to appreciate fine-point distinctions that you have to be very detail-oriented to notice. An example of nuanced is a nuanced glance, when a person looks at a painting and understands the fine-point details about what makes it great. &raquo more... The crime he did commit was that of practical, complicated, and nuanced thought. Though an ardent anti-communist, he also knew that Chiang's regime was bankrupt and that eventually America would have to deal with Mao if it wanted power over him.
A subtle difference in or shade of meaning, expression, or sound: he was familiar with the nuances of the local dialect. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  It's not a point of view I've ever heard before, and I may not entirely have got the subtler nuances of it. 2  In short, he's learning subtle nuances. 1 So, yes, they talk around the edges-nuancing this, quibbling with that-as they search for an edge in an election year. 2  Of course, a ‘blanket ban’ on drinking on public transport will be nuanced much like the smoking ban was.
nuance. n. 1. a subtle difference in colour, meaning, tone, etc; a shade or graduation. vb (tr; passive). 2. to give subtle differences to: carefully nuanced words. A subtle or slight degree of difference, as in meaning, feeling, or tone; a gradation. 2. Expression or appreciation of subtle shades of meaning, feeling, or tone: a rich artistic performance, full of nuance.
1 Each mood and move is perfectly underscored and nuanced by sensitively composed music. 2  So, yes, they talk around the edges-nuancing this, quibbling with that-as they search for an edge in an election year. 1 So, yes, they talk around the edges-nuancing this, quibbling with that-as they search for an edge in an election year. 2  Of course, a ‘blanket ban’ on drinking on public transport will be nuanced much like the smoking ban was.