Invertebrates. 1  Sponges are the most primitive of animal groups. 2  They live in water (usually saltwater), are sessile (do not move from place to place), and filter tiny organisms out of the water for food. 3  Coelenterates are also very primitive. Almost all animals fall into one of two groups. Adult vertebrates have a spinal column, or backbone, running the length of the body; invertebrates do not. Vertebrates are often larger and have more complex bodies than invertebrates. However, there are many more invertebrates than vertebrates
By Laura Klappenbach. Sponges (Porifera) are a group of animals that includes about 10,000 living species. Members of this group include glass sponges, demosponges, and calcareous sponges. Adult sponges are sessile animals that live attached to hard rocky surfaces, shells, or submerged objects. The larvae are ciliated, free-swimming creatures. Sponges are classified within the following taxonomic hierarchy: Animals Invertebrates. Sponges are divided into the following taxonomic groups: 1  Calcarious sponges (Calcarea) - There area about 400 species of calcarious sponges alive today.
Sponges are animals of the phylum Porifera (/pɒˈrɪfərə/ ; meaning pore bearer). They are multicellular organisms that have bodies full of pores and channels allowing water to circulate through them, consisting of jelly-like mesohyl sandwiched between two thin layers of cells. 
Sponges are a group of invertebrates that includes glass sponges, demisponges, and calcareous sponges. There are about 10,000 species of sponges alive today. The earliest fossil evidence of sponges consists of various cells known to belong to sponges—spicules, pinacocytes, porocytes and archaeocytes. Although there more than 30 phyla of invertebrates, and scientists are constantly reshuffling the way they classify them, in this article I'll keep it simple by focusing on just six basic groups of invertebrates. Approximately 97 percent of all known animal species are classified as invertebra
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. sponges belong to the group echinoderm. an echinoderm is a radially symmetrical organism that lives on the ocean floor and has a spiny internal skeleton. 
Invertebrates are all animals without a backbone. These animals do not have a bony skeleton. All insects are invertebrates. They do have a skeleton but it is on the outside of their bodies and is not made of bone. These two main groups have been divided into smaller groups. This is called sub-dividing the group. The two main groups of animals are vertebrates and invertebrates. Vertebrates are all animals with a backbone. Humans have a backbone which is part of their skeleton. A skeleton gives the body support and shape.
It is estimated that there are another 3 million to 30 million more to identify. Animals are classified into two major groups; vertebrates and invertebrates. Invertebrates are classified as animals without a backbone and make up about 97% of all animal species. Simple invertebrates include sponges, cnidarians, flatworms, and roundworms. 