To find out if your flight has WiFi, visit our WiFi Finder within 24 hours of departure and simply enter your confirmation number, first and last name. Make sure you bring your powered device and headphones with you onboard so you can take full advantage of Southwest's Inflight Entertainment! By accessing the SouthwestWiFi hotspot onboard, you can make time fly on your own personal electronic device! Free live and on-demand television: 1  19 live channels and up to 75 television episodes from popular series.
Use these tools to search for your flight and they'll tell you if you'll have Wi-Fi: 1  SeatGuru: Designed for finding the best seat on a plane, but offers information about Wi-Fi and other amenities as a natural extension of the service. 2  Hipmunk: Designed for finding flights but will identify those with Wi-Fi. Here's a list of those we know about and how often you can expect to find Wi-Fi on your plane (although most of these numbers refer to US domestic flights): 1  Virgin America: 100% of flights. 2  Costs $4.95 to $19.95 for mobile and $11.00 - $49.00 for computers. 3  AirTran Airways: 100% of flights
WiFi and Inflight Entertainment. By accessing the SouthwestWiFi hotspot onboard, you can make time fly on your own personal electronic device! Free live and on-demand television: 1  19 live channels and up to 75 television episodes from popular series. * 2 Where available. 3  Does not include NFL RedZone. 4  Limited time
Not all Southwest planes are equipped with WiFi, but if your flight does, you’ll see a “Southwest Airlines Hotspot” sticker by the cabin door when you board. And you can find out if it will 24 hours before your scheduled departure by using Southwest’s WiFi Finder. No Can Do. Southwest’s in-flight WiFi works reasonable well, but there’s a few things it won’t let you do: 1  Watch Netflix movies. 2  Make VoIP phone calls through services like Skype or Facetime. 3  Visit porn sites.
For official in-flight Wi-Fi information from the airlines, just click their linked names in the list above. It's also worth noting that if you fly between Los Angeles and San Francisco (LAX SFO), New York and Los Angeles (JFK LAX), or Atlanta and Orlando (ATL MCO) you're almost guaranteed Wi-Fi on your flight. Here's a list of those we know about and how often you can expect to find Wi-Fi on your plane (although most of these numbers refer to US domestic flights): 1  Virgin America: 100% of flights. 2  Costs $4.95 to $19.95 for mobile and $11.00 - $49.00 for computers. 3  AirTran Airways: 100% of flights
You can find out if your flight has Wi-Fi a variety of ways, but we like to use flight searches to uncover the data. Certain sites provide this information. While not accurate 100% of the time, they're as close as you'll get without official word from the airline. Here's a list of those we know about and how often you can expect to find Wi-Fi on your plane (although most of these numbers refer to US domestic flights): 1  Virgin America: 100% of flights. 2  Costs $4.95 to $19.95 for mobile and $11.00 - $49.00 for computers. 3  AirTran Airways: 100% of flights
My test began when I settled into my seat at 2 p.m. PT Thursday, which was the first full day of Southwest's new policy. Unlike some other airlines with Wi-Fi, Southwest's service can send and receive Internet data even when the plane is on the ground. The only barrier, until now, has been that our devices were required to be off when the airplane doors have closed, until reaching that famous 10,000-foot level. 
Avoid the frustration of stepping onto an airplane only to discover it's WiFi-less by checking the online status of your plane in advance. Before Booking. If you want to purchase a ticket based on which airline has WiFi on board, then note it during your search. Travel websites like Hipmunk and Kayak include in their results details on whether a flight is WiFi-enabled. After Booking. When you're just curious of whether your plane will have WiFi, turn to SeatGuru for a breakdown of every airline's fleet of planes and which have WiFi.
When your Southwest flight reaches an altitude of 10,000′ following take-off, a flight attendant will come on the PA system and let passengers know it’s okay to turn on electronic devices. You’ll then follow these steps to get on-line, in-flight: 1  Find “Southwest WiFi” in the list of available wireless networks. 2  Launch your Web browser to access the Southwest Hotspot portal. No Can Do. Southwest’s in-flight WiFi works reasonable well, but there’s a few things it won’t let you do: 1  Watch Netflix movies. 2  Make VoIP phone calls through services like Skype or Facetime. 3  Visit porn sites.