1 Regionally, the lowest average price was $35,900 for a new single-wide in the Midwest and $83,800 for a new double-wide in the West. 2  Many new manufactured/mobile homes are set up in developments/parks, where the home owners pay monthly fees/space rent of $100-$800 or more, depending on location and park amenities.
The yearly cost to rent a home in America varies greatly depending on the location and type of home that one is looking to rent. However, the average cost to rent a home is ap … proximately 2,500 dollars per month, or $30,000 per year.
The average price for renting spring homes in Colorado is around One Thousand Dollars ($1000). Based on a 3 Bedroom place and 2+ Baths. The price lowers with 2 Bedrooms, and r … ises with more then 3 bedrooms.
Because moving mobile homes is prohibitively expensive, there is an active resale market. If you snag a used mobile home with an affordable lot rent, you could get your total monthly cost down to $300 to $500 a month. New or used, the biggest upside of mobile homes is affordability. As Margonelli reports, they're even greener and, on average, use far less energy and water than conventional homes.
49,340 Contributions. The average rent for a three bedroom home in Grand Junction, Colorado, is between $1000 and $1500, depending on how nice the house is, and what part of Grand Junction it is lo … cated in.
In most cases, mobile homes are sold without land, and there is a fee to set them on a plot with a septic tank or hook up to public utilities. From there, the average rent in the U.S. is around $200 to $300. Combine that with the monthly mortgage or finance cost on the actual mobile home, and you're looking at $700 to $1,000 monthly – less than the average apartment rent – and with a chance to have a small yard, perhaps a pet and the feel of a neighborhood.
In Florida there isn't any rent cap on mobile home lot rent although there should be, if your thinking about renting a lot, talk to other residents first. If its a prospectus park be sure all fees are itemized. If there is a community building ask to tour it, see what is there.