US Passport Now is a non-government based service authorized by the passport agency to expedite U.S. Passports. Our services are guaranteed to process your passport fast: Same Day Service to a Two Week Processing Time which starts at $99. 
D. Passport card (16, under) = $10 application fee + $25 to process = $35 E. Passport book renew by mail, Form DS-82 (if applies) = $7575. F. Passport card renew by mail, Form DS-82 (if applies) = $20 EXPEDITED PROCESS: A. Passport book expedited = $60 for each application + overnight delivery fees. If you are  in need of an expedited US passport then you can expect to pay an  extra 60 dollars for your passport. T … hat means for a first time  adult an expedited passport will cost 195 USD. The price for a  minor will be 165 USD. Ali Berri.
Cost. Regular passport costs include an application fee and an execution fee if applied for in-person. The expedited passport adds $60 and postage fees to those costs. The standard passport processing time is two to three weeks, so when mailing your application, choose overnight delivery for the fastest results. If mailing your forms, mark the word EXPEDITE on the outside of the envelope. 
Confirmation. RushMyPassport.com is registered, but not affiliated, with the US Government. We charge an additional fee to expedite your passport in 1-12 days. If you are not in a rush, you can obtain a passport directly from the U.S. Department of State in 4-7 weeks. We're the #1 most trusted U.S. Passport Service. We save you time and a trip to the passport office. Our network of registered couriers nationwide are able to get your expedited passport in as little as 24 hours.
Expedited Service. Fee: $60 (Applicants in the U.S. only). See important information about Application Processing Times and follow the instructions on How to Get Your Passport Fast. When requesting this service, pay the $60.00 Expedited Service Fee for each application, in addition to the required fees noted above. Routine & Expedited Passport Fees. The passport application fee and the execution fee (new passport only) are the only mandatory fees. There are several optional fees such as the ones for expedited service, overnight delivery and a file search. All the fees are listed below.
1 The fee to renew a passport is $110. 2  The fee for additional visa pages is $82. 3  There is no fee for a name change if requested within one year of the passport's issuance date. 4  Remember to include a payment of $60 for expedited service. 5  Write the word expedite on the outside of the envelope. 1 Apply for a passport early and avoid expedited service fees. 2  Applications for renewals should be submitted approximately nine (9) months before the expiration date due to the 6-month validity rule required by many countries.
The basic fee for an adult U.S. passport is $110 for a regular  passport or $30 for a passport card (onl … y valid for land or sea  journeys to nearby countries).As of June 2014, a United States passport can cost between $15 to  $140, depending on the age of the recipient and other factors. If you are  in need of an expedited US passport then you can expect to pay an  extra 60 dollars for your passport. T … hat means for a first time  adult an expedited passport will cost 195 USD. The price for a  minor will be 165 USD. Ali Berri.
If 2 to 3 weeks is not fast enough, you will have to either visit a regional agency or apply online for expedited service in order to get your passport in under 2 weeks. Submitting incorrect passport fees could delay the processing of your application. Routine & Expedited Passport Fees. The passport application fee and the execution fee (new passport only) are the only mandatory fees. There are several optional fees such as the ones for expedited service, overnight delivery and a file search. All the fees are listed below.