The Havanese is considered an ideal family pet and a true companion dog. They are highly adaptable to almost any environment. Because of their strong social needs, Havanese will not thrive in an environment where they are isolated for several hours each day. The Havanese is small in size and sturdy in structure with a tail carried over its back and ears that drop and fold. The coat is abundant, long, and silky and comes in all colors.
There is no standard for weight now.Personally I think that Rosie is just perfect. Just feed your dog and it will gainweight, may even get to over 10 lbs. Four months is 16 weeks about and your baby is 11 weeks. Not much difference. Rosie would have been about the size of your baby at 11 weeks. 
Estimating Size. Estimate how big your Havanese puppy will be by multiplying his weight at 8 weeks of age times 4. He is roughly one-quarter of his adult weight at that age. Double his weight at 16 weeks of age for a fresh estimate of his final size. Average Size. The average Havanese dog is 8 1/2 to 11 1/2 inches tall at the shoulder when full grown, according to the American Kennel Club breed standard. Some puppies who reach their mature height by 12 months of age may take longer to fill out to their adult body weight, which averages between 8 and 13 pounds
CONCLUSION: The best quality puppy for your dollar is purchasing one from a reputable breeder with a price between $1,400-$2,000. If you can not afford that, you should probably look for a different breed that has good qualities, but that aren't as much. You will find the price of a Havanese puppy bred and raised with these standards will cost anywhere from $1,400-$2,000. This group of breeders take dog breeding seriously and want to perfect the breed. They use good judgement in determining which dogs to breed together to produce the best puppy for you.
The Havanese, a breed of Bichon type, is the national dog of Cuba, developed from the now extinct Blanquito de la Habana (little white dog of Havana). The Blanquito descended from the also now extinct Bichon Tenerife. The Havanese is small in size and sturdy in structure with a tail carried over its back and ears that drop and fold. The coat is abundant, long, and silky and comes in all colors.
Their weight should double in the first 7-10 days. Before, during, and after nursing, the mother dog will lick the stomach and perineal area to stimulate urination and defecation. She will continue to do this for 2-3 weeks. Puppies should gain 1-2 grams/day/pound of anticipated adult weight. Weigh the puppy daily for the first 2 weeks, then weigh at least weekly. The puppies' eyes will open around 12-15 days of age. The retina matures around 21 days of age. Puppies should see clearly by 4 weeks of age. Do not pry open the lids for any reason, as the immature eye is not yet ready to handle light. Some puppies will take a day to open the eyes while others will take 3-4 days.
1 For medium to large breed puppies you can get an idea of their adult weight by doubling his weight at 14 weeks and then adding another half of his 14 week figure (eg. your puppy weighs 15lbs at 14 weeks, so... The thing is, no one can give you any guarantees about how tall your pup will be as an adult, or how much he will weigh.... but you do get some clues! If you've brought home a purebred puppy then you've got a general idea of the breed's adult size.
Havanese puppies at birth can weigh anywhere from 4 oz. to 7 oz. with some variation above and below those values. Their birth weigh depends on the bitch and how many puppies she has produced as well as other factors. Weak or Fading pups. Underweight and very weak puppies are a little harder to deal with. A general rule of thumb is to feed the puppy ½ it’s weight in cc’s…for example…if the puppy weighs 3 oz, feed 1-1/2 cc per feeding, every 2 hours. It is a good idea to weigh the puppy each time you feed so that after 3 or 4 feedings, you will know whether the puppy has maybe gained even a small amount of weight.