The English surname 'Lockwood' is local in origin, being one of those names derived from the place where a man once lived or held land. In this case it is derived from the village of Lockwood in the ancient parish of Almondbury, in the West Riding of Yorkshire. As a surname it simply denotes one whose place of residence or birth Lockwood was. The place name means enclosed woo
Lockwood /lock-wood/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Lockwood is forest near the fortified place. Place name. Related boy name: Locke. Kreatif forms: Lekwood, Lokwood, Lykwood. 
Meaning of Lockwood. English name. In English, the name Lockwood means-from the enclosed wood.The name Lockwood originated as an English name. The name Lockwood is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-from the enclosed 
Lockwood is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: 1  Al Lockwood, British air force officer and politician. 2  Annea Lockwood (born 1939), New Zealand-born American composer. 3  Belva Ann Lockwood (1830–1917), American feminist, lawyer and politician.
This interesting surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is an ancient locational name which derives from the village of Lockwood, now a suburb of Huddersfield in the (former) West Riding of Yorkshire. Church recordings include John Lockwood, who married Jane Taylor on May 19th 1555, at St. Mary Magdalene's, Old Fish Street, London, and their daughter, Ellyn, who was christened on May 26th 1556, also at St. Mary Magdalene's, Old Fish Street.
English: Fort. First name variations: Lock, Locke. Last name origin & meaning: English: habitational name from a place in West Yorkshire, probably named in Old English as ‘enclosed wood’, from loc(a) ‘enclosure’ (see Lock) + wudu ‘wood’. It seems likely that all present-day bearers of the name descend from a single family which originated in this plac
Definition: This surname is derived from a geographical locality. 'of Lockwood,' a village in the ancient parish of Almondbury, West Riding of Yorkshire This local surname has ramified strongly and spread widely. Willelmus de Lokewod, 1379: Poll Tax of Yorkshire. Thomas de Lockewod, 1379: ibid. Descriptive Writing for introductory reference. This surname is derived from a geographical locality. 'of Lockwood,' a village in the ancient parish of Almondbury, West Riding of Yorkshire This local surname has ramified strongly and spread widely. Willelmus de Lokewod, 1379: Poll Tax of Yorkshire.
Save Name. Last name origin & meaning: English: habitational name from a place in West Yorkshire, probably named in Old English as ‘enclosed wood’, from loc(a) ‘enclosure’ (see Lock) + wudu ‘wood’. It seems likely that all present-day bearers of the name descend from a single family which originated in this place.
Lockwood Name Meaning. English: habitational name from a place in West Yorkshire, probably named in Old English as ‘enclosed wood’, from loc(a) ‘enclosure’ (see Lock) + wudu ‘wood’.