0. The cost of a building permit depends on the intended use, the size and sophistication of the building. A typical site built single family permit ranges from $800 to $1,200 and a mobile home permit is $220. There may be other fees charged depending on the nature of the project. more. 
1 2015 Fee Estimator: Use this spreadsheet to estimate the cost of your building permit fees based on the square footage, type of construction, and occupancy of your location (does not include hourly review fees or inspection charges). When you need to pay fees depends on the type of permit. Building Permits. This category includes all types of construction permits, demolition permits, and grading permits. 1  If your permit requires plan review.
Building Permit Service Average Costs. The actual cost of a building permit service will vary depending on your location, the reputability of the firm, the project, and other factors. The following prices are merely meant to provide a general idea of building permit expediter fees. 1 You might pay approximately $35 to $70 per hour for building permit expediting services, plus miscellaneous fees (copying, travel, etc.). 2  Half or full day booking are generally cheaper than a single hour. 3  Below are permit processing fees for common projects and services. 4  Note that the figures given are starting prices.
A schedule of fees may be obtained from the building department upon request. The average cost is $60.00 for a residential remodel and $150 for commercial permits. 
Permit fees for repairs or alterations are based on the number of inspections that will be required and are set at the discretion of the Building Code Official Permits with Hourly Fee rates: (2015 hourly fee is $61.00 per hour). Act 157 of the PA Uniform Construction Code requires that all code agencies collect a $4.00 surcharge for every permit issued. Make sure to add $4.00 to any permit fee you calculate.
New Structure (other than a building, i.e., canopy, retaining wall, sign). *The fees calculated here are estimates only and may not be the final fees charged. The base permit fee is $108. All final permit fees, based on the Fairfax County Fee Schedule, will be calculated by county staff. Separate permits are required for mechanical, electrical and plumbing work. 
Building permits are needed for more than just new home construction. The national average cost of a building permit is $853, with most homeowners spending between $366 and $1,340. This data is based on actual project costs according to HomeAdvisor members. Depending on the area, they may be required for additions, renovations and even electrical or plumbing projects. The actual cost of a building permit will depend on the location of the property and the type of work that will be performed there. For many homeowners, the process of applying for a permit may seem daunting, but it cannot be avoided without risking fines or worse.
1 2014 Fee Estimator: Use this spreadsheet to estimate the cost of your building permit fees based on the square footage, type of construction, and occupancy of your location (does not include hourly review fees or inspection charges). 2  2014 Fee Subtitle: Our Fee Subtitle lists all service fees for our department. When you need to pay fees depends on the type of permit. Building Permits. This category includes all types of construction permits, demolition permits, and grading permits. 1  If your permit requires plan review.