Help for Throat Mucus. When the mucus in the back of the throat becomes thick, it is natural to feel a need to clear the throat with coughing. Clearing your throat will help the phlegm loosen or break up in the back of the throat, giving way to the uncomfortable feeling. Mucus problems can be a nuisance, but there are some simple ways to remedy it.
How Mucinex ® products can help. When you have chest congestion, you want to thin and loosen the mucus that’s caught in your lungs so it’s easier to cough out. To do this, you’ll want an expectorant like guaifenesin. Use as directed. Chest congestion relief. There are simple things you can do to thin and loosen the extra mucus that has gotten thicker and taken up residence in your lungs. Stay hydrated. Drinking lots of water can help thin the mucus that has thickened and gotten stuck
Often, chest congestion is a symptom for a more serious disease like asthma, bronchitis or pneumonia. These diseases inflammation of the respiratory tract, that causes breathing difficulties leading to chest congestion. How to Break up Chest Congestion. If you’re feeling sick, you want to know how to break up chest congestion fast. Chest congestion is the accumulation, due to over production, of mucus in the lungs and bronchial passages. Chest congestion is often accompanied by a low fever, dry cough and minor aches and pains. It can be a result of the flu, a common cold, an allergy or pneumonia among other things
1 Take this twice a day for 5 days to dry up Mucus and eliminate a cough. 2  Mix 2 tablespoons of honey with an equal amount of grape juice and take this three times a day for 5 days. 3  The grape juice acts as an expectorant to eliminate Mucus. 1 Sprinkle one half of the lemon liberally with salt and black pepper. 2  Suck on this half of the lemon, and it will dry up mucus and reduce the severity of a cough. 3  Drink slippery elm tea. 4  To make it, pour two cups of boiling water over two tablespoons of powdered slippery elm bark.
Use steam. Steam helps to break up mucus in your chest, nose, and throat, allowing you to expel it from your body easier. 1  Boil a pot of water and hold your face over the bowl and breathe in the steam for several minutes. 2  Cover your head with a towel to concentrate your exposure to the steam.
Phlegm is a mucus secretion of respiratory lining. It gets accumulated in throat, chest or lungs in conditions like bronchitis, COPD, T.B etc. The process of breathing is interrupted and creates a disgusting feeling. In patients affected with above respiratory diseases this is an every day problem. 
Peppermint oil is a decongestant that will loosen the nasal passages and help clear up your child’s sinuses. Thus, it will break up their chest congestion. Another remedy can be the use of an onion. Slice an onion and boil it in one-fourth cup of water and wait till it releases its juices. Strain the mixture, and a little bit of honey or sugar for flavour. Give one tablespoon of it to your child, thrice a day. How to Break up Chest Congestion. If you’re feeling sick, you want to know how to break up chest congestion fast. Chest congestion is the accumulation, due to over production, of mucus in the lungs and bronchial passages. Chest congestion is often accompanied by a low fever, dry cough and minor aches and pains. It can be a result of the flu, a common cold, an allergy or pneumonia among other things
1 Make a juice from an onion and a lemon and combine the juice with 1 cup of boiling water. 2  Add raw honey to taste and allow the mixture to cool to room temperature. 3  Drink the entire cup of juice in one sitting. 4  Drink this concoction three times a day for 2 to 3 days to eliminate Mucus. 1 Sprinkle one half of the lemon liberally with salt and black pepper. 2  Suck on this half of the lemon, and it will dry up mucus and reduce the severity of a cough. 3  Drink slippery elm tea. 4  To make it, pour two cups of boiling water over two tablespoons of powdered slippery elm bark.
Steam it out. Similar to drinking hot liquids, the heat and moisture of steam help to break up and dissolve mucus deep in your lungs and throat. Take a hot shower, or fill a bowl with very hot water. Place your face over the bowl and a towel over your head to trap in the steam. 1 This will make it easier to expel. 2  Chest congestion can turn into pneumonia if not taken care of early. 3  See your doctor! 4  There are two places to open palm 'slap;' on either side of the chest to help break up congestion and two on the upper back.