In other words, the crows don't want the predator in the area and the hawk itself doesn't really care whether it is there or somewhere else. In search of an answer to the question of what a pair of these birds of prey would do when harassed by crows if they had a couple of babies in a nest, I asked an ornithologist. Q: A pair of red-tailed hawks has nested near our house for years. Several times I have seen one or both of them harassed by crows. I watched a five-minute dogfight today with the hawk just trying to get away. It was very entertaining, but puzzling.
Crows do not get along with birds of prey, such as hawks, owls, and eagles. They will gather together to mob these birds if they can. Mobbing includes dive bombing, chasing, and harassing. Predators of American Crows include the predatory birds listed above, snakes, raccoons, and man. Young crows fledge (leave the nest) after five weeks. American Crows eat a wide variety of foods, including: fruits, grains, nuts, acorns, snails, mussels, small birds, eggs, rabbits, mice, toads, crayfish, snakes, lizards, salamanders, rats, grasshoppers, cutworms, Junebugs, grubs, weevils, and other insects.
12 Answer s. The hawk is too close to a nest. They are probably protecting their young. Hawks will eat small birds. Smaller birds will also attack birds of prey carrying food hoping they will drop it. I once watched a “battle” between two hawks and an eagle. The aerial maneuvers were literally breath-taking.
Hawks, owls, eagles, raccoons, cats, foxes, coyotes, and even people are often the subjects of mob aggression by hysterical crows. To crows these are all predators, having at one time or another been caught by a crow in the act of preying on nestlings or older family members. And … where there are eagles and other raptors, there is also a long entourage of gulls, terns and crows. In fact, I know precisely when the eagles are passing through by the cacophony of bird cries throughout the canyon. This is a regular, distant scene from our balcony:
Posts: 10,501. My location. Another reason for mobbing/chasing is that it communicates to the bird of prey that the crows know of its presence and are on guard, thus encouraging it to move on in search of easier prey. __________________. Bird photos (Flickr): http://www.flickr.com/photos/fugl/ . . 
Not worth the eagle's attention, it ignores the crow surfing on its back. Not worth the eagle's attention, it ignores the crow surfing on its back. This would be kind of like a dog chasing a car and jumping up on it, says McGowan. Dogs always want to catch the car, but they never know what they'd do if they get it.. 
The American Crow, also called the Common Crow, is a bird that most people see every day. It grows up to 21 inches long and every part of its body is black. American Crows can also be identified by their fan-shaped tail. This bird lives just about everywhere, including woods, fields, riversides, parks, and towns. Young crows fledge (leave the nest) after five weeks. American Crows eat a wide variety of foods, including: fruits, grains, nuts, acorns, snails, mussels, small birds, eggs, rabbits, mice, toads, crayfish, snakes, lizards, salamanders, rats, grasshoppers, cutworms, Junebugs, grubs, weevils, and other insects.
Report Abuse. This is very common and referred to as mobbing. Crows want to chase hawks out of their territories to protect nests and young. Hawks are capable of killing a crow but they rarely put up a fight..they just let the crows chase them away. birdgirl · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I've seen much smaller birds than crows doing that to hawks. I've also seen smaller birds doing this to the crows themselves. It's called mobbing, and it's a common defensive tactic.