The Josephines knot is a lovers knot as it intertwines separate links to make the whole pattern. Can be used as a wedding ring or worn on its own. Josephine's Knot Gold Celtic Ring R1. The Josephines knot is a lovers knot as it intertwines separate links to make the whole pattern. Can be used as a wedding ring or worn on its own. Available in 14K White, Yellow or Rose Gold.
More info @ my Blog: http://stampingwithbibiana.blogspot.com. Learn how to make a Josephine knot, also knows as Macrame macramé Or sailor. Knots to see a card embellished with this, knot visit my personal blog: at://http.stampingwithbibiana.blogspot... c And watch The Video A Twisted easel card For men in My you tube Channel stamping With. bibiana More info @ my Blog: http://stampingwithbibiana.blogspot.com. Learn how to make a Josephine knot, also knows as Macrame macramé Or sailor. knots
This is a tutorial on how to create the Josephine knot. This knot goes by many different names, but is commonly called the Josephine Knot or Double Coin Knot when used in a decorative way. This is a great knot to use in bracelets and jewelry. Music - Memory Replaced by Josh Woodward. Free download: http://joshwoodward.com/song/MemoryRe...
THE JOSEPHINE KNOT. The Josephine Knot, (sometimes also referred to as the. “Garrick Bend),” is a decorative knot used. within a pattern or by itself for a belt or. jewelry. It can be tied with two, four, or any. multiple of cords and knots intertwined. As. with many knots, the diagrams make the. procedure look more complex than it is. 
Description: The Josephine Knot originated in the Orient, where it is still called the Double Coin Knot. In European countries it was named for Empress Josephine, who was the wife of Napolean for a time. There are two variations on this page. The first set of instructions show you how to tie this decorative knot in the center of a cord, with two ends free to move after the knot is tied. The second set of instructions will show you how to tie this Macrame knot with only one free end. You will find the method useful when tying it in a series, or combined with other knots. A third variation is on a separate page and is called the Sailors Knot.
Josephine Knot. Photo Credit: Tammy Powley. This knot is a little more advanced than basic knots such as the square knot. It has a variety of applications such as finishing off the ends of a macrame necklace which you can then pull over your head. 
Josephine knots is also a traditional orient knot pattern which is called the Double Coin Knot. In this tutorial, you will learn the standard means of working by one strand of cord, resulting in three connected loops. 
Summary: How to make a Josephine knot, a knot ties with one cord and several time; via this article, you will learn the standard way for creating the Josephine knot. Do not miss it as its important role in your friendship bracelet making projects. 
Show All Items. The josephine knot is my favorite knot ever. I learned it while making a macrame plant hanger at Craftcation 2013 and I have been addicted ever since! You can use it to make bracelets, pretty up straps on bags-all kinds of things. The josephine knot seems delicate and complicated-but I promise it's super easy to do!