The Tropic of Capricorn is one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth. As of 21 October 2015, its latitude is 23°26′14.1″ (or 23.43724°) south of the Equator, but it is very gradually moving northward, currently at the rate of 0.47 arcseconds, or 15 metres, per year. The Tropic of Capricorn is the dividing line between the Southern Temperate Zone to the south and the tropics to the north. The northern hemisphere equivalent of the Tropic of Capricorn is the Tropic of Cancer.
The Tropic of Cancer represents a line around the earth at 23 degrees 26 minutes north latitude, signifying that this is the farthest north that the Sun reaches. The Tropic of Capricorn lies at a similar latitude south of the equator. The firthest point North that this overhad  position reaches is the Tropic of Cancer (23.5 degrees North) and  the furthest point south is the Tropic of Capricorn (23.5 degrees  south).
The Tropic of Capricorn is significant to understanding the Earth's geography because it marks the southern boundary of tropics. This is the region that extends from the equator south to the Tropic of Capricorn and north to the Tropic of Cancer. Rio de Janeiro lies on the Tropic of Capricorn, which is at about 23.5 degrees south latitude, in the Southern Hemisphere.
Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn. Located at 23.5 degrees North and 23.5 degrees South of the Equator, this area of Planet Earth (between those two lines) is known as the Tropics, and is colored with a lighter blue color on the globe. People living North of the Tropic of Cancer and South of the Tropic of Capricorn experience dramatic seasonal climate changes, based on the earth's tilt, and the subsequent angle of the sun.
The Tropic of Cancer is a circle of latitude located approximately 23.5 degrees north of the equator, and it lies in opposition to the Tropic of Capricorn, which is a circle of latitude located approximately 23.5 degrees south of the equator. The area of Earth located in between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn is known as the tropics, or tropical (torrid) zone. The Sun never appears directly overhead (at the zenith) anywhere outside the tropics. It's during the summer solstice when the Sun is directly overhead on the Tropic of Cancer.
The Tropic of Cancer represents a line around the earth at 23 degrees 26 minutes north latitude, signifying that this is the farthest north that the Sun reaches.   The Tr … opic of Capricorn lies at a similar latitude south of the equator.   The area between these lines is referred to as the tropics. 
The Tropic of Capricorn (or the Southern Tropic) is the circle of latitude that contains the subsolar point on the December (or southern) solstice. It is thus the southernmost latitude where the Sun can be directly overhead. The Tropic of Capricorn is the dividing line between the Southern Temperate Zone to the south and the tropics to the north. The northern hemisphere equivalent of the Tropic of Capricorn is the Tropic of Cancer.
The Tropic of Cancer is the circle marking the latitude 23.5 degrees north, where the sun is directly overhead at noon on June 21, the beginning of summer in the northern hemisphere. This means that on December 21, when the Sun is directly over the Tropic of Capricorn at noon, it will not be visible from the Arctic Circle. So above the Arctic Circle, there is a period during the winter when the sun remains below the horizon.
Let's get right to it then. The Tropic of Cancer is a circle of latitude located approximately 23.5 degrees north of the equator, and the Tropic of Capricorn is a circle of latitude located approximately 23.5 degrees south of the equator. The area of Earth located in between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn is known as the tropics, or tropical (torrid) zone. The Sun never appears directly overhead (at the zenith) anywhere outside the tropics. It's during the summer solstice when the Sun is directly overhead on the Tropic of Cancer.
The reason for the location of the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn at 23.5° north and south respectively is due to the axial tilt of the Earth. The Earth is titled 23.5 degrees from the plane of the Earth's revolution around the sun each year. The area bounded by the Tropic of Cancer on the north and Tropic of Capricorn on the south is known as the tropics.. This area does not experience seasons because the sun is always high in the sky.