The works of the Flemish painter Rubens and the Roman sculptor Bernini are often described as Baroque in this sense. The term was originally derogatory and may be derived from the Portuguese word barroco, meaning an irregular pearl. Baroque. In relation to painting and sculpture Baroque is used in a number of senses, but perhaps most usefully to describe large, usually 17th-century, works of a dramatic and exuberant nature which employ diagonal compositions and illusionistic effects in order to impress the viewer.
The Baroque (US /bəˈroʊk/ or UK /bəˈrɒk/) is often thought of as a period of artistic style that used exaggerated motion and clear, easily interpreted detail to produce drama, tension, exuberance, and grandeur in sculpture, painting, architecture, literature, dance, theater, and music. The term Baroque was initially used in a derogatory sense, to underline the excesses of its emphasis. In particular, the term was used to describe its eccentric redundancy and noisy abundance of details, which sharply contrasted the clear and sober rationality of the Renaissance.
The French word baroque is derived from the Portuguese word barroco or Spanish barrueco both of which refer to a rough or imperfect pearl, though whether it entered those languages via Latin, Arabic, or some other source is uncertain. The term Baroque was initially used in a derogatory sense, to underline the excesses of its emphasis. In particular, the term was used to describe its eccentric redundancy and noisy abundance of details, which sharply contrasted the clear and sober rationality of the Renaissance.
It is a French transliteration of the Portuguese phrase perola pérola, barroca which means irregular , pearl and natural pearls that deviate from the, usual regular forms so they do not have an axis of rotation are known  as baroque . pearls The term Baroque was initially used in a derogatory sense, to underline the excesses of its emphasis. In particular, the term was used to describe its eccentric redundancy and noisy abundance of details, which sharply contrasted the clear and sober rationality of the Renaissance.
Its origin is obscure, but there is a likelihood that it derived from mnemonic hexameters put together in the 13th c. by William of Shyreswood. In writers such as Vives, Erasmus, Montaigne, Saint-Simon the word was used to stimatize the pedantry of late-medieval logic-chopping. Hence, in informal usage, the word baroque can simply mean that something is elaborate, with many details, without reference to the Baroque styles of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
This is a list of English words potentially borrowed or derived from Portuguese (or Galician-Portuguese). The list also includes words originally derived from other languages and are mainly contradicting the title itself: 
Answers: A)Flamboyant B)Misshapen pearl C)Ecstasy D)Sailor. The meaning of the Portuguese term barroco, from which Baroque likely derive, is B)Misshapen pearl (or an imperfect pearl). http:/r/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baroque. Expert answered| matahari |Points 2189|. 
Like a boss can be interpreted as a simile comparing someone to a person who is in charge. To say that a person acts like a boss, you are saying that they possess the cha … racter traits that are typically associated with that title. Like a Boss is also the name of a rap song and its subsequent parody song. In slang terms, boss can also mean awesome.. Like terms are terms with the same variable to the same power. Examples: 2y and 3y are like terms. 2y and 2z are not like terms 4y squared and 3y squared are like term … s 4y squared and 3y are not like terms. + 18 others found this useful. P rv P h l