Asset exchange transactions. occur when only asset accounts are engaged in a transaction. For example, collection of cash on accounts receivable is an asset exchange transaction because only two asset accounts (cash and accounts receivable) are impacted. Total assets remain unchanged after asset exchange transactions
Part of the Email and messaging glossary: In Microsoft Exchange, a transaction log is a file that contains a record of the changes that were made to an Exchange database. Information that needs to be added to a mailbox database is first written to an Exchange transaction log and then the contents of that transaction log are later written to the Exchange Server database. Microsoft chose to use the transaction log model so users can still access Exchange Server during a backup.
Definition. Financial transaction involving the exchange of currency to be completed at a future date. For instance, an individual may exchange the greenback for the yen because the exchange rate is better on a given date, but request that the transaction be completed in the future. Essentially, the individual is able to lock in the current rate to avoid possible changes in the exchange rate in the future.
The definition of an exchange transaction, according to the FASB ASC glossary, is a reciprocal transfer between two entities that results in one of the entities acquiring assets or services or satisfying liabilities by surrendering other assets or services or incurring other obligations. 
DEFINITION of 'Transaction'. 1. An agreement between a buyer and a seller to exchange goods, services or financial instruments. 2. In accounting, the events that affect the finances of a business and must be recorded on the books. Transactions are recorded in what are known as journal entries.
Foreign Exchange Transaction Law & Legal Definition. Foreign exchange transaction is a type of currency transaction that involves two countries. Generally, a foreign exchange transaction involves conversion of currency of one country with that of another. The conversion of currency in a foreign exchange transaction can be performed through : 1. buying or selling of goods and services on credit; 2. borrowing or lending funds. A foreign exchange transaction is usually carried out in foreign exchange markets. An example of a foreign exchange transaction is where a person buys dollars and sells pounds.
Definition. Increase or decrease in a cash flow caused by a change in the exchange rate of two currencies, such as when an invoice denominated in one currency is paid in another. See also translation exchange gain or loss. 
The exchange of one currency for another, or the conversion of one currency into another currency. Foreign exchange also refers to the global market where currencies are traded virtually around-the-clock. The term foreign exchange is usually abbreviated as forex and occasionally as FX.. Next Up. 