Etching is the process of using strong acid or mordant to cut into the unprotected parts of a metal surface to create a design in intaglio in the metal. Princeton's WordNet (1.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: etching (noun). an impression made from an etched plate. etching (noun). an etched plate made with the use of acid. engraving, etching (noun). making engraved or etched plates and printing designs from them.
A: Items etched with Armour Etch, Sand Etch or Etch Bath can be washed in your dishwasher just like any other piece of glass. When a glass is Engraved (scratching into the surface of the glass) or deeply carved with a professional sand blaster, you will have to hand wash these items. A: Armour Etch is NOT made to etch solid large areas of glass. It is stated in all of our instructions and books. It is impossible to evenly coat a piece of glass all at the same time. Therefore, wherever you apply the Armour Etch to first will start to etch immediately upon contact.
Precision Metal Fabricating without Stress Chemical etching is a method of fabricating metal components that relies on an acidic solution to dissolve unwanted metal. Stamping and punching utilize hardened steel tools to shape metal parts. Photo etching is also known as chemical etching and photo chemical machining. It evolved in the 1950s as an off-shoot of printed circuit board fabrication, and the production process is very similar.
Etching is used in microfabrication to chemically remove layers from the surface of a wafer during manufacturing. Etching is a critically important process module, and every wafer undergoes many etching steps before it is complete. If the etch is intended to make a cavity in a material, the depth of the cavity may be controlled approximately using the etching time and the known etch rate. More often, though, etching must entirely remove the top layer of a multilayer structure, without damaging the underlying or masking layers.
Links to epoxy floor web sites and other non acid floor prep options. Acid Etching concrete for garage epoxy floor paint. Acid etching as a surface preparation is the process of applying an acid solution to a concrete surface, allowing the acid to react with and 'etch' the concrete. This is usually considered a concrete preparation step prior to the application of an epoxy floor paint (garage epoxy). 
Etching is a process used to remove parts of the egg shell with an acid to create raised areas, giving your egg a textured surface. Vinegar or The Works toilet cleaner are oft … en used. 
Etching. Etching is the process of using strong acid or mordant to cut into the unprotected parts of a metal surface to create a design in intaglio in the metal. As an intaglio method of printmaking, it is, along with engraving, the most important technique for old master prints, and remains in wide use today. Princeton's WordNet (1.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: etching (noun). an impression made from an etched plate. etching (noun). an etched plate made with the use of acid. engraving, etching (noun). making engraved or etched plates and printing designs from them.
Etching is traditionally the process of using strong acid or mordant to cut into the unprotected parts of a metal surface to create a design in intaglio (relief) in the metal. In modern manufacturing, other chemicals may be used on other types of material. 
v. etched, etch·ing, etch·es. v. tr. 1. a. To cut into the surface of (glass, for example) by the action of acid, especially by coating the surface with wax or another protective layer and drawing lines with a needle and then using the acid to form the lines on the unprotected parts of the surface. b. To make or create by this method: etch a design on glass. 2
Myth-Acid etching makes concrete rough. My concrete is already rough so I do not have to acid etch. False-becoming rough is only sort of a by product of acid etching. The pores on the surface of the concrete become void of calcium after being cleaned giving the illusion of a rougher surface. Myth-My concrete is new (or old) so I do not have to etch it. False-All concrete should be etched. 