The Byzantine Empire, and its capital of Constantinople, held a strategic geographical significance. Constantinople is located right between the Black Sea and the entrance to the Mediterranean Sea. As a result most trade between Asia, Europe and North Africa had to pass through the Byzantine Empire.
Description: A map illustrating the geographical advantages of Constantinople as the capitol of the Byzantine or Eastern Roman Empire in AD 330. The map shows Constantinople centered in an oval 3800 miles east to west by 2500 miles north to south, essentially the extent of the known world at the time.
Geography had a large impact on the Byzantine Empire, for Byzantium is right alongside the Bosphorus River, the Black Sea, and the crossroads between Europe, Africa, and Asia. A set of long, famous holy wars, known as the Crusades were also fought in the Byzantine Empire.
Geography in the Byzantine Empire is a main reason why many people come to visit the empire. The geography of the Byzantine Empire includes the eastern half of the Roman Empire, which consists of parts of North Africa, Greece, Italy, and even some territory in the Middle East.
It was right in the middle of the Bosporus, Black Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. So, all trade between North Africa, Asia and Europe, had to pass through the capital (Constantinople), causing the Byzantine Empire to become very wealthy due to taxes they charged between the trading.
They may not seem relevant; however the geography in the Byzantine Empire effects the lives of many Byzantines. Because Constantinople was directly on the cross-roads between Asia, Africa, and Europe, wealth and riches were constantly flowing through the markets.
B/W PDF Version. Description: A map illustrating the geographical advantages of Constantinople as the capitol of the Byzantine or Eastern Roman Empire in AD 330. The map shows Constantinople centered in an oval 3800 miles east to west by 2500 miles north to south, essentially the extent of the known world at the time.