The Canary Islands are technically part of Africa, however, they are considered European. If you have flown to the Canary Islands from the US, then it means you have officially entered the EU and Spain. Just as it would if you landed in Madrid. However, yes, technically you could say you have landed in Africa.
Lanzarote weather. Formed from undersea volcanic eruptions which occurred tens of millions of years ago, Lanzarote forms part of the Canary Islands; a Spanish island group located off the coast of Africa.
Tenerife (a Spanish island in the Atlantic off the northwestern coast of Africa; the largest of the Canary Islands). Holonyms (Canary Islands is a part of...): Espana; Kingdom of Spain; Spain (a parliamentary monarchy in southwestern Europe on the Iberian Peninsula; a former colonial power).
Location & Size The Canary Islands are located in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Africa. The eastern most island, Lanzarote is located about 70 miles from coast of Africa. The islands, stretch out into the Atlantic Ocean with the western most island, Hierro being about 300 miles away.
The Canary Islands – the Canary Islands is a Spanish archipelago just off the northeast coast West African continent, located 100 km west of the border between Morocco and Western Sahara. The Canary Islands are a Spanish autonomous community and an outer zone of the European Union. The islands are (largest to smallest): Tenerife, Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, La Palma, La Gomera, El Hierro, La Graciosa, Alegranza, Isla de Lobos Montana Montaña, Clara roque Del este And roque Del. oeste
La Palma is one of the Canary Islands. They are part of Spain and the European Union, but the Canary Island government is largely autonomous. The islands lie 200+km from the coast of Morocco and about 3500km from the UK.
The Canary Islands are popular with UK tourists all-year-round. Although the islands are Spanish, they are located off the west coast of Africa which means they are warm and breezy during the UK winter as well as in summer.