The captured methane is generally flared or used for energy purposes. 1 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has identified four sources of methane with the greatest potential for capture in the near term: landfills, coal mines, agriculture, and oil and gas systems. 
Methane can also be captured from farm digesters, which are big tanks that contain manure and other waste from barns that house livestock such as cows and pigs. How It Works. 1  Trash decomposes (or rots) in landfills, creating methane gas. 2  Methane rises to the top of the landfill and is collected in pipes. While it's important to reduce, reuse, and recycle as much as you can, it's hard to avoid throwing out some trash every week. Trash that cannot be recycled or reused often ends up in landfills, where it produces methane as it decomposes. Methane is a very powerful greenhouse gas. One pound of methane traps 25 times more heat in the atmosphere than a pound of carbon dioxide
Waste Management, the largest garbage hauler and landfill operator in the country, is in the midst of a five-year, $400 million plan to build methane-to-electricity projects at 60 landfills nationwide. As a result, capturing methane at former and active landfills is a global housekeeping benefit as well as an important alternative energy niche. In New York, power from landfill methane far exceeds solar power.
The agency estimates that landfills account for 25 percent of all methane releases linked to human activity. As a result, capturing methane at former and active landfills is a global housekeeping benefit as well as an important alternative energy niche. In New York, power from landfill methane far exceeds solar power.
The gas can also be sent to a pretreatment unit where it is processed and used as a product or shipped offsite for further processing or use. Optimizing gas collection efficiency is dependent on landfill design, operation and maintenance of the gas collection system, and closure/post-closure practices. The organic portion of solid waste disposed in MSW landfills decomposes to form landfill gas. Landfill gas contains approximately between 40 to 60 percent methane, 40 to 60 percent carbon dioxide, and trace amounts of non-methane organic compounds (NMOCs).
Methane is also the main ingredient in natural gas. Because methane can be captured from landfills, it can be burned to produce electricity, heat buildings, or power garbage trucks. Capturing methane before it gets into the atmosphere also helps reduce the effects of climate change. While it's important to reduce, reuse, and recycle as much as you can, it's hard to avoid throwing out some trash every week. Trash that cannot be recycled or reused often ends up in landfills, where it produces methane as it decomposes. Methane is a very powerful greenhouse gas. One pound of methane traps 25 times more heat in the atmosphere than a pound of carbon dioxid
The continuously decreasing landfill gas volume can be compensated by the disposal of additional waste during this period. With a calorific value of 3.5 to 5.5 kWh Nm 3 (35-55% methane), landfill gas constitutes a high-value fuel for gas engines that can be effectively used for power generation. If landfill gas is allowed to escape to atmosphere, methane contained within it is a powerful greenhouse gas, 21 times more so than carbon dioxide. Therefore, its prevention of escape to atmosphere and its utilisation as a renewable fuel source is a win-win situation.
Landfill Gas Landfill gas is created during the anaerobic decomposition of organic substances in municipal solid waste (MSW) and commercial and industrial (C&I) wastes. If landfill gas is allowed to escape to atmosphere, methane contained within it is a powerful greenhouse gas, 21 times more so than carbon dioxide. Therefore, its prevention of escape to atmosphere and its utilisation as a renewable fuel source is a win-win situation.
It’s a beautiful thing, actually, to turn waste into power. As waste decomposes in a landfill, a natural by-product is landfill gas. More than 20 years ago, we realized this gas could be captured and burned as fuel. We are now able to convert the gas into electricity or an alternative transportation fuel. The benefits of landfill gas are both proven and compelling. 