Definition of FEDERALISM. 1. a often capitalized: the distribution of power in an organization (as a government) between a central authority and the constituent units — compare centralism b: support or advocacy of this principle. 2. capitalized: Federalist principles. ADVERTISEMENT
fed·er·al·ism. n. 1. a. A system of government in which power is divided between a central authority and constituent political units. b. Advocacy of such a system of government. 2. Federalism The doctrine of the Federalist Party. federalism. 1. a union of states under a central government distinct from that of the separate states, who retain certain individual powers under the central government. 2. (cap.) the principles of the American Federalist party, especially its emphasis during the early years of the U.S. on a strong
“Our federalism” – Championed by Ronald Reagan, presumes that the power of the federal government is limited in favor of the broad powers reserved to the states. Unitary system – Constitutional arrangement that concentrates power in a central government. Confederation – Constitutional arrangement in which sovereign nations or states, by compact, create a central government but carefully limit its power and do not give it direct authority over individuals.
Marble cake federalism – Conceives of federalism as a marble cake in which all levels of government are involved in a variety of issues and programs, rather than a layer cake, or dual federalism, with fixed divisions between layers or levels of government. Unitary system – Constitutional arrangement that concentrates power in a central government. Confederation – Constitutional arrangement in which sovereign nations or states, by compact, create a central government but carefully limit its power and do not give it direct authority over individuals.
Devolution revolution – The effort to slow the growth of the federal government by returning many functions to the states. Federalism – Constitutional arrangement in which power is distributed between a central government and subdivisional governments, called states in the United States. The national and the subdivisional governments both exercise direct authority over individuals. Unitary system – Constitutional arrangement that concentrates power in a central government. Confederation – Constitutional arrangement in which sovereign nations or states, by compact, create a central government but carefully limit its power and do not give it
Progressive Federalism. Other Types of Federalism. Federalism-a form of government where a group of states, territories, etc., are governed by one central power. Federalists-a member of the Federalist party. Dual Federalism-the federal government and the states’ government have separate, but equal, powers. 
The United States government is based on federalism. Federalism is a method of government that allows two or more entities to share control over the same geographic region. Each person in the United States is subject to the laws of that city, county, state and our federal government. The result was a balance of powers between the states and the federal government, with the federal government clearly in charge. This is the system of federalism we still use today.
The term federalism is also used to describe a system of government in which sovereignty is constitutionally divided between a central governing authority and constituent political units (such as states or provinces). Federalism is a system based upon democratic rules and institutions in which the power to govern is shared between national and provincial/state governments, creating what is often called a federation. The term federalist describes several political beliefs around the world.
1. Dual federalism-A system of government in which both states and national government remain supreme within their own spheres, each responsible for some policies.This type of system ended in the 1930s. - AKA “Layer Cake” federalism 2. VOCABULARY. Federalism-a way of organizing a nation so that two or more levels of government have formal authority over the same land and people; shared power between units of government. Unitary government-a way of organizing a nation so that all power resides in the central
Federalism in the United States is the evolving relationship between state governments and the federal government of the United States. American government has evolved from a system of dual federalism to one of associative federalism. Federalism is a system based upon democratic rules and institutions in which the power to govern is shared between national and provincial/state governments, creating what is often called a federation. The term federalist describes several political beliefs around the world.