Joel Sartore. Photographer. Fellow. Photograph by Joel Sartore. Photograph courtesy Joel Sartore. Joel Sartore is a photographer, speaker, author, teacher, conservationist, National Geographic fellow, and a regular contributor to National Geographic magazine. His hallmarks are a sense of humor and a Midwestern work ethic. 
Camera Department | Miscellaneous Crew. Joel Sartore was born in Ponca City, Oklahoma, USA. He is known for his work on At Close Range with National Geographic (2007), Racing Extinction (2015) and Water: Our Thirsty World (2010). He is married to Kathy. See full bio ».
About Joel. Joel Sartore is a photographer, speaker, author, teacher, conservationist, National Geographic Fellow, and a regular contributor to National Geographic Magazine. His hallmarks are a sense of humor and a Midwestern work ethic. Joel and his work have been the subjects of several national broadcasts including National Geographic’s Explorer, the NBC Nightly News, NPR’s Weekend Edition and an hour-long PBS documentary, At Close Range. He is also a contributor on the CBS Sunday Morning Show with Charles Osgood.
A life-long Nebraskan, Joel Sartore brings a sense of humor and a mid-western work ethic to all of his National Geographic assignments. And there are times when he needs both of these qualities. He grew up in Ralston, Nebraska, a small town just outside Omaha. 
Joel Sartore has produced more than 30 stories from around the world as a freelance photographer for NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC magazine. He is an author, speaker and teacher who captivates audiences with his funny and inspiring adventures. Founder of the PHOTO ARK, his images show a world worth saving. 
Joel Sartore. Photograph by Joel Sartore. Photograph courtesy Joel Sartore. Joel Sartore is a photographer, speaker, author, teacher, conservationist, National Geographic fellow, and a regular contributor to National Geographic magazine. His hallmarks are a sense of humor and a Midwestern work ethic
Mini Bio (1). Joel Sartore was born in Ponca City, Oklahoma, USA. He is known for his work on At Close Range with National Geographic (2007), Racing Extinction (2015) and Water: Our Thirsty World (2010). He is married to Kathy. 
Joel Sartore. Joel Sartore brings a sense of humor to his National Geographic assignments. Over 20 years of experience have allowed him to cover everything from the remote Amazon rain forest to beer-drinking, mountain-racing firefighters in the United Kingdom. 
Joel Sartore. Joel Sartore is a photographer, speaker, author, teacher, conservationist, National Geographic Fellow, and a regular contributor to National Geographic Magazine. His hallmarks are a sense of humor and a Midwestern work ethic. Joel and his work have been the subjects of several national broadcasts including National Geographic’s Explorer, the NBC Nightly News, NPR’s Weekend Edition and an hour-long PBS documentary, At Close Range. He is also a contributor on the CBS Sunday Morning Show with Charles Osgood.