Even at the lower temperatures likely to be experienced in classrooms, however, heat leads to a loss of concentration and increased tiredness, which means that teachers are more likely to put themselves or others at risk. NUT policy, therefore, as agreed at Annual Conference 2007, is that 26°C should be the absolute maximum temperature in which teachers should be expected to work, other than for very short periods. It is important that all schools have in place contingency plans to help staff and pupils cope with the heat.
75 is what I have normally experienced in classrooms and that has been a comfortable temp. However, the south can get unbearably hot so it's gone as low as 68 in some classrooms, which is fine by me. Since I'm so used to the hot weather, once it gets cold I want the heat turned on to like, 80. 
The Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992 stipulate that during working hours, temperatures in workplaces (including maintained and independent schools, and FE colleges) should be reasonable. High temperatures. There is no prescribed maximum temperature for educational establishments or any other workplace. The Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992 require employers to take all reasonable steps to ensure that a comfortable temperature is maintained.
Under the Education (School Premises) Regulations there should be at least three litres of fresh air, per second, for each of the usual number of persons accommodated in that area. On very hot days, this should be increased to eight litres per second for each of the usual number of people in those areas. High temperatures. There is no prescribed maximum temperature for educational establishments or any other workplace. The Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992 require employers to take all reasonable steps to ensure that a comfortable temperature is maintained.
They suggest that the temperatures for classrooms should be based on the season. 68-76 winter; 72.5-80 summer. ASHRAE/ ANSI Standard 55-2004, “ Thermal Environmental Conditions for Human Occupancy ” This standard is designed such that 80% of the occupants will find the temperature to be acceptable. The Child Care Regulations Section 101239 requires a temperature between 68-85 degrees F for air temperatures in Child Care Classrooms. (a) A comfortable temperature for children shall be maintained at all times.
School teachers have renewed calls for maximum legal temperatures in heatwave-hit classrooms as the heat continues. Some teachers have been reporting temperatures topping 32C (90F) and very uncomfortable conditions in class. Her union wants to see a statutory maximum temperature of 30C in school classrooms. This would mean staff and pupils being sent home if thermometers went above this. She said excessive temperatures are a major problem for schools and that most are ill-equipped to cope with them.
Lessons should not have to be taught in extremely hot conditions-and there should be a fixed upper limit for classroom temperatures, say teachers. A teachers' conference heard complaints that there are more temperature regulations for cattle and computers than there are for children in school. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It is normal for a classroom to be in the 68 to 72 range. Sometimes a school has poor insulation and heating and it gets down as low as 60 degrees. Below 60 degrees, you should definitely be asking for help. I suggest you get a cheap wall thermometer and set it where you sit.
ATL considers that classrooms should be at least 18°C (even though the Approved Code of Practice to the regulations states a normal temperature for workplaces of at least 16°C), as children are less able to withstand low temperatures than adults. High temperatures. There is no prescribed maximum temperature for educational establishments or any other workplace. The Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992 require employers to take all reasonable steps to ensure that a comfortable temperature is maintained.
Toilet facilities. The Education (School Premises) Regulations stipulate that there should be at least one toilet for every 10 pupils under five years and one for every 20 pupils over that age. In special schools, the minimum provision is one toilet for every 10 pupils, irrespective of age. 