Transparency, as used in science, engineering, business, the humanities and in other social contexts, implies openness, communication, and accountability. Transparency creates an everyday participation in the political processes by media and the public. One tool used to increase everyday participation in political processes is Freedom of Information legislation and requests. Modern democracy builds on such participation of the people and media.
Good questions. Wikipedia – one of the world’s great examples of transparent collective behaviour – states that “ transparency ”, as it pertains to behaviour implies openness, communication, and accountability. It is a metaphorical extension of the meaning a “transparent” object is one that can be seen through. Transparent procedures include open meetings, financial disclosure statements, freedom of information legislation, budgetary review, audits, etc. Transparency also means that care will be taken to share the methods of producing guidelines as well as the administration and processes used in supporting the production. The general open behaviour will sometimes bring criticism of specific issues.
In order for a business to be transparent, its people need to be transparent. A culture of transparency takes shape when leaders intentionally manifest their own personal transparency, and encourage it in the attitudes and behaviors of their team members. In other words, transparency starts with people. When an organization's people are transparent, then the organization is ready to follow. Here’s how you can apply principles of transparency to your online marketing endeavors. Be transparent about the price. There’s seldom a need to hide the pricing of a product. 
Transparency in an organization implies visibility into the functions of the organization for its stakeholders. It should be noted that transparency does not mean opening up the intellectual property files or company's classified documents. It is essential that an organization articulates and practices transparency through its well defined processes. Some process where transparency is of utmost importance are discussed in this article.
Transparency is operating in such a way that it is easy for others to see what actions are performed. It has been defined simply as the perceived quality of intentionally shared information from a sender. Transparency is practiced in companies, organizations, administrations, and communities. It guides an organization's decisions and policies on the disclosure of information to its employees and the public, or simply the intended recipient of the information. Transparency creates an everyday participation in the political processes by media and the public. One tool used to increase everyday participation in political processes is Freedom of Information legislation and requests. Modern democracy builds on such participation of the people and media.
The trend toward transparency means that traditional walls dividing organizations are coming down. When the dust settles, you must be in a position to demonstrate that you have the highest quality and lowest costs. Transparency within a healthcare organization is essential in any effort to improve quality and cost. For example, it is difficult to expect a hospital’s operating room workforce to reduce the cost of an operating room when they don’t know how much individual operating room resources cost.
I think Transparency is an excellent example of a concept which everyone has their own subjective version of what it means, and the irony is that its a social construct. if two people have different versions of transparency in the slightest, then it can’t work as a seamless social construct. Transparency also means that care will be taken to share the methods of producing guidelines as well as the administration and processes used in supporting the production. The general open behaviour will sometimes bring criticism of specific issues.