Hypertonic refers to a greater concentration. In biology, a hypertonic solution is one with a higher concentration of solutes outside the cell than inside the cell. When a cell is immersed into a hypertonic solution, the tendency is for water to flow out of the cell in order to balance the concentration of the solutes. Unlike osmotic pressure, tonicity is influenced only by solutes that cannot cross the membrane, as only these exert an effective osmotic pressure. Solutes able to freely cross the membrane do not affect tonicity because they will always be in equal concentrations on both sides of the membrane.
The tonicity of solutions with respect to each other may be expressed as hypertonic, isotonic or hypotonic. The effect of different external solute concentrations on red blood cells serves as a good example for hypertonic, isotonic and hypotonic solution. Hypertonic Solution or Hypertonicicty. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Osmotic pressure and tonicity often are confusing to people. Osmotic pressure is the pressure of a solution against a semipermeable membrane to prevent water from flowing inward across the membrane. Tonicity is the measure of this pressure
Isotonic – refers to a solution whose concentration of solutes is equal to the concentration of solutes inside of a cell. The water flows equally across the membrane in both directions causing no change in the volume or shape of the cell (a,b). This one is on tonicity. Tonicity refers to the affect of a solution on a cell. A solution is a mixture of two or more substances in which one (a solute) is dissolved in the other (a solvent). So a solute is the substance that is dissolved in a solvent to form a solution
See hyperosmotic agent; osmotic pressure; physiological saline. hypotonic s. A solution with an osmotic pressure lower than that of an isotonic solution. Hypotonic ophthalmic solutions generally cause less irritation than hypertonic ones. See osmotic pressure. isotonic s. A solution with an osmotic pressure equal to that on the other side of a semipermeable membrane. Example: sodium chloride 0.9% is considered to be approximately isotonic with the tears. See osmotic pressure; physio-logical saline. 
Hypertonic solutions will have a higher concentration of solute (glucose, salt, etc) than the cell. Mainly water will move across the cell membrane in order to even out the concentration of solutes in both the cell and the environment around the cell. Memorizing the definition of hypertonic, hypotonic, and isotonic solutions is not necessary when you understand the root words that make up these descriptive words. The difference between the words hypertonic, hypotonic, and isotonic describe the tonicity. Tonicity is the difference in water concentration of two solutions separated by a semipermeable membrane. Knowing the tonicity of solutions will tell you which direction water will diffuse
Micrographs of osmotic pressure on red blood cells. Tonicity is a measure of the effective osmotic pressure gradient (as defined by the water potential of the two solutions) of two solutions separated by a semipermeable membrane. In other words, tonicity is the relative concentration of solutions that determine the direction and extent of diffusion. Unlike osmotic pressure, tonicity is influenced only by solutes that cannot cross the membrane, as only these exert an effective osmotic pressure. Solutes able to freely cross the membrane do not affect tonicity because they will always be in equal concentrations on both sides of the membrane.