1 The one drawback is that in wet or windy areas, the mulch may blow away. 2  The cost for this type of mulch is about $10 per 2 cubic feet. 3  Oyster Shells-If you live in an area where oyster shells are readily available, they may be free for the taking. 1 Rubber mulch also comes in a variety of colors to suit anyone's taste. 2  The cost for a bag of black or red rubber mulch is comparable to that of wood chips or nuggets-approximately $12 per 2-cubic feet. 3  Colored rubber mulch, such as purple or yellow, may be a few dollars more.
Mulching Flower Beds Cost. Once a home or business owner purchases the mulch, there will be an additional cost to lay the mulch on flower beds, around trees and elsewhere as desired. The cost of labor to perform this work averages $0.75 per square foot of area to be mulched. 
1 The cost for this type of mulch is about $10 per 2 cubic feet. 2  Oyster Shells-If you live in an area where oyster shells are readily available, they may be free for the taking. 3  They make a pretty mulch around plants, are semi-permeable and can also be used for paths and walkways. 1 Rubber mulch also comes in a variety of colors to suit anyone's taste. 2  The cost for a bag of black or red rubber mulch is comparable to that of wood chips or nuggets-approximately $12 per 2-cubic feet. 3  Colored rubber mulch, such as purple or yellow, may be a few dollars more.
Covering a few garden beds might require only a few bags of mulch. However, if you want to cover a large portion of your front or backyard, you probably should buy in bulk. The average price of bulk mulch is between $15 and $65 per cubic yard, though some bags are priced to cover more than one cubic yard. Unless you own a truck or SUV, consider having the mulch delivered to your home, which adds an extra $350 to $700 to these prices. Some common organic mulch materials you can use and their prices include: 1  Pine bark/needles: Use this loose mulch to help plant roots absorb and retain moisture. 2  You shouldn’t use it if you live in wet or windy areas, though, because it easily blows away. 3  It costs about 10 to $12 per 2 cubic feet.
1 cubic yard = 1 (yard) . Since each yard = 3 feet, 1 cubic yard = 1 (3 feet) = 27 feet. So a cubic yard is 27 cubic feet. The first price is $25 for 27 cubic feet, so that works out to $0.93 per cubic foot. Walmart's price is $3 for 2 cubic feet, so that works out to $1.50 per cubic foot. Clearly, by buying in larger quantities you get a better price. How much to buy depends on the depth you plan.
1 Pine Bark and Needles-This type of mulch works well for acid-loving plants. 2  It is a loose mulch, so water can flow freely to plant roots below. 3  The one drawback is that in wet or windy areas, the mulch may blow away. 4  The cost for this type of mulch is about $10 per 2 cubic feet. 1 Rubber mulch also comes in a variety of colors to suit anyone's taste. 2  The cost for a bag of black or red rubber mulch is comparable to that of wood chips or nuggets-approximately $12 per 2-cubic feet. 3  Colored rubber mulch, such as purple or yellow, may be a few dollars more.
1 The cost for a bag of black or red rubber mulch is comparable to that of wood chips or nuggets-approximately $12 per 2-cubic feet. 2  Colored rubber mulch, such as purple or yellow, may be a few dollars more. 1 Rubber mulch also comes in a variety of colors to suit anyone's taste. 2  The cost for a bag of black or red rubber mulch is comparable to that of wood chips or nuggets-approximately $12 per 2-cubic feet. 3
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Mulch Installation project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Mulch ranges between $0.47 - $1.07 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
1 Rubber mulch: This prevent fungus and unwanted insects from getting to your plant roots. 2  It’s used for playgrounds in addition to landscaping. 3  You can pick many types of color variations depending on what matches your garden best. 4  Rubber mulch costs between $10 and $12 per 2 cubic feet. Some common organic mulch materials you can use and their prices include: 1  Pine bark/needles: Use this loose mulch to help plant roots absorb and retain moisture. 2  You shouldn’t use it if you live in wet or windy areas, though, because it easily blows away. 3  It costs about 10 to