1 Most kittens train themselves with a litter box with a little nudge from us. 2  If you have the kittens in a large area, you may wish to provide more than one box so 'accidents' don't happen. 3  Type of litter: Do not use clumping litter with kittens under 4 months. 4  Litter can get into the eyes and cause infections. 1 A kitten may need hand raising because the mother has died, become ill, rejected the kittens or abandoned them. 2  In the case of feral cats, the kittens may have been taken from the mother for taming. 3  Kittens should not be taken from the mother before 5 to 6 weeks of age if possible.
Kittens can start using the litter box anytime after 4 weeks. If the mother cat uses a large box, you may want to use a slightly smaller container for the kittens. Be sure to place the kittens in the box after each meal and take the kittens' paws and rub them in the litter using a scratching motion. Kittens instinctively begin to use dry loose materials at 4 weeks old! Litter training is how you redirect this natural behavior to a litter box so your kitten goes where he is supposed to! Read also about inconsistent litter box users, training feral cats and about cats that go in odd places.
1 At first, you will probably need to place your kitten in the litter box a couple of times and scratch the litter with your finger. 2  Do this immediately after feeding your kitten. 3  You will be surprised how quickly he will learn that the litter box is his toilet. If, however, you have rescued an orphan kitten or adopted a very young kitten, you will need to take his mother’s place in the housetraining process. It likely will not come as naturally to you, so here is the routine: 1  Your newborn or very young kitten (up to 3 weeks) needs to be stimulated to go just after he is fed.
1 As your kitten grows, you will need to put more litter in the pan. 2  By the time your kitten is six months old, you should start placing two to three inches of litter in the pan. 3  It's best if you have a house with tile or wood flooring because that way the pee can be mopped up. 1. Clean the litter every day. Kittens do not like to relieve themselves in dirty areas. If you don't change the litter, the kitten may find a cleaner place, like the carpet, to do her business. 1  To clean the litter box, scoop the waste out of the box, place it in a small baggie, close the bag, and throw it away.
1 In the case of feral cats, the kittens may have been taken from the mother for taming. 2  Kittens should not be taken from the mother before 5 to 6 weeks of age if possible. ( 3 For wild kittens you may want to take them away from the mother at 4 weeks to tame them. 1 A kitten may need hand raising because the mother has died, become ill, rejected the kittens or abandoned them. 2  In the case of feral cats, the kittens may have been taken from the mother for taming. 3
Most kittens will already know what a litter box is for and how to use it by the time you adopt them. But if you hand-raise an orphan, or adopt a kitten younger than 8 to 10 weeks as often happens in shelter and rescue situations, you’ll need to do the job of the mother cat. 
Supplementing a litter of 6 kittens or more with a mom: If you have a mom with a litter of 6 or more kittens, watch them carefully around 3-4 weeks of age. Mom may not have enough milk for the entire litter and all the kittens will suffer. You may need to supplement the feedings with KMR. 1 A kitten may need hand raising because the mother has died, become ill, rejected the kittens or abandoned them. 2  In the case of feral cats, the kittens may have been taken from the mother for taming. 3  Kittens should not be taken from the mother before 5 to 6 weeks of age if possible.
A kitten may need hand raising because the mother has died, become ill, rejected the kittens or abandoned them. In the case of feral cats, the kittens may have been taken from the mother for taming. Kittens should not be taken from the mother before 5 to 6 weeks of age if possible. (For wild kittens you may want to take them away from the mother at 4 weeks to tame them. The 4 week mark is a good time to introduce the kitten to the litter box too. Place the kitten in the box after each meal. You may have to take the kitten's paw and show it how to scratch in the litter.
Clumping litter should be avoided especially with kittens. This type of litter creates more dust, which settles on the kitten, is ingested when the kitten washes itself and then clump inside the kitten's stomach. Longhaired cats and declawed cats are especially sensitive to unclean, deep and smelly litter. The litter box should only have about a half inch of inch of litter and it should be changed frequently. Cats and especially kittens do not like sinking into a soggy mound of smelly litter. Putting a small amount of litter into the pan saves litter and also means it is easier for you to change.
Confine your young kitten to a smaller portion of the house so she can easily get to her litter box. Once she starts having access to more of the house, place litter boxes in multiple locations. Litter boxes should be in open areas where the kitten can easily see them. They should also be in quiet areas so kitty isn’t easily distracted. The location should be safe and secure so the kitten doesn’t have to worry about the family dog sticking his nose in there or a child or other family member startling her. The box should be easy for a young kitten to get in and out of. A high-sided box will be too difficult for a youngster to crawl over, especially with a full bladder. Keep in mind a kitten won’t have the bladder control of an adult cat so when she has to “go” it’s usually urgent.