Qty. Share. With its curved, sickle-like shape, the khopesh of Ancient Egypt was a very deadly, and highly versatile, weapon. This Warriors Khopesh Sword recreates its shape for the modern-day enthusiast to own, enjoy, and even carry, if they should so desire. The khopesh is old-very old. Its origins can be traced back to the 3rd Millennium BC. Sans guard, the sword was wielded with a shield, and its hooking shape was used to either disable or remove an opponents shield, or to disarm them completely.
Historical Info: The khopesh is old-very old. Its origins can be traced back to the 3rd Millennium BC. Sans guard, the sword was wielded with a shield, and its hooking shape was used to either disable or remove an opponents shield, or to disarm them completely.
Physical description Edit. The khopesh typically had a handle like a knife rather than a hilt like a sword. The handle was about 6 in (15 cm) long with optional quillons. The blade extended straight for 8 in to 2 ft (21 to 60 cm) and then curved like a sickle with a sharp convex edge. The end of the blade was shaped to form a hook. An average khopesh cost 10 gp and weighed 7 lb (3.2 kg). or 20 gp and weighed 12 lb (5.4 kg). The khopesh was a specialized weapon used in a slashing fashion like a sword or an axe. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. The Khopesh is an ancient Egyptian sickle sword which came up around 3000 BCE and was most popular during the New Kingdom (1570--1070 BCE). This is a reproduction of a khopesh found in Tutankhamun's tomb, handmade by Neil Burridge. Game of Thrones fans might recognize that the Dothraki arakh is inspired by the khopesh
The Khopesh was typically around 50 to 60 cm long and had a crook-like curve or hook, used to disarm opponents quickly and easily. The inside curve of the hook was not sharpened, but the outside curve was the single cutting edge. However, the major exception to this rule were the Egyptian swords known as the Khopesh – the cruelly curved sickle sword adopted from the Canaanites, which was used to execute en-masse their enemies, as an infantry weapon and also as a symbol of the authority of their nobles.
Pommel: Threaded. The Egyptian Khopesh first became popular around 3000 BC when Upper and Lower Egypt were first united under one Pharaoh. From then on it was an important weapon in the Egyptian foot soldier's arsenal. Originally made of bronze and later iron the Khopesh could be sharpened on either side or both. In this case the edge is on the outside curve.
Pommel: Threaded. The Egyptian Khopesh first became popular around 3000 BC when Upper and Lower Egypt were first united under one Pharaoh. From then on it was an important weapon in the Egyptian foot soldier's arsenal. Originally made of bronze and later iron, the Khopesh could be sharpened on either side or both
Historical Info: The khopesh is old-very old. Its origins can be traced back to the 3rd Millennium BC. Sans guard, the sword was wielded with a shield, and its hooking shape was used to either disable or remove an opponents shield, or to disarm them completely. 