How long does it take to get clean in the shower? Is it 10 minutes? Did you know that a 10 minutes shower with a standard shower head can use upwards of 80 gallons of water and generate up to 4 pounds of CO2 emissions? That is not including the energy used to heat the water, unless of course you have solar hot water. Yea go ahead and take a 5 minute shower, I’ll make sure to walk down the other side of the street when I smell you coming. Try turning off the shower head while you wash your body and hair to save water.
When I was growing up, you couldnt take a shower while the clothes were being washed or the dishwasher was running because the water in the shower would be cold. That is because our water system was not designed to handle both, feeding hot water to each area. If you have the hardware on your fixtures/plumbing to keep the pressure and temperature consistent, then you can do this..if not..I would wait and have a shower when nothing else if running as your pressure and/or temperature can be affected. pissy_old_lady · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
1 Dry off your hair with a towel, you can blow your hair dry if you want to or let it air dry. 2  You can take your phone in the shower if you put it in a Ziploc bag. 3  Just make sure it's sealed all the way, and try not to get it soaked. 4  Brush your hair in the shower after you use all your hair products. 1 If you are male, and uncircumcised (check with a doctor or parent), make sure that you clean under your foreskin, so as to avoid infection. 2  Dry off your hair with a towel, you can blow your hair dry if you want to or let it air dry. 3
1 You can take your phone in the shower if you put it in a Ziploc bag. 2  Just make sure it's sealed all the way, and try not to get it soaked. 3  Brush your hair in the shower after you use all your hair products. 4  For people that are shaving there lower private spot make sure that nothing is sticking out. 1 If you are male, and uncircumcised (check with a doctor or parent), make sure that you clean under your foreskin, so as to avoid infection. 2  Dry off your hair with a towel, you can blow your hair dry if you want to or let it air dry. 3 
For washing my hair--I take a hand towel and wrap it loosely around my neck and point the water where I want it to go when washing my hair. I tilt my head back and use the hand held to wet my hair with the spray aimed at the top of my head and down the back of my hair. 
Now that I have my own house, my plumbing can handle it, so it doesnt matter if you take a shower while those other items are being used. But you cant take a really long shower because eventually the tank empties from the hot water and the shower will get cold. If you have the hardware on your fixtures/plumbing to keep the pressure and temperature consistent, then you can do this..if not..I would wait and have a shower when nothing else if running as your pressure and/or temperature can be affected. pissy_old_lady · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
1 If you take a shower before bedtime, take a shower gel with the smell lavender. 2  It will make you more relaxed than a shower gel with smells of fruit. 3  If you shaved while in the shower, pat dry your skin rather than rubbing it. 4  It will reduce skin irritation and damage. 1 If you are male, and uncircumcised (check with a doctor or parent), make sure that you clean under your foreskin, so as to avoid infection. 2  Dry off your hair with a towel, you can blow your hair dry if you want to or let it air dry. 3  You can take your phone in the shower if you put it in a Ziploc bag.
Can I take a shower and do laundry at the same time? My Mother seems to think that doing these two things at the same time will make either the shower or washing machine not work properly. Maybe she thinks there won't be enough hot water or something, I don't even know. Are her worries completely unfounded or are there legitimate reasons why you... If you have the hardware on your fixtures/plumbing to keep the pressure and temperature consistent, then you can do this..if not..I would wait and have a shower when nothing else if running as your pressure and/or temperature can be affected. pissy_old_lady · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
At my house, we can only get hot water at one appliance at a time, so no one can shower while the clothes washer or dishwasher are running. If someone forgets and turns on the kitchen faucet while someone else is in the shower, they get hit with a bolt of cold water. 1  Share Question. 2  Flag as... 3  shower. If I am watering the yard the washer takes forever to fill, the shower pressure is low and all other water sources run at half capacity. I DO have an amazing 200psi on the faucet on the hill, a regular fire hose that can stand alone when held 4 feet from the hose nozzle.