1 You can identify a mineral by its appearance and other properties. 2  The color and luster describe the appearance of a mineral, and streak describes the color of the powdered mineral. 3  A mineral has a characteristic density. 4  Mohs hardness scale is used to compare the hardness of minerals. A mineral is more likely to break where the bonds between the atoms are weaker. Cleavage is the tendency of a mineral to break along certain planes to make smooth surfaces. Minerals with different crystal structures will cleave in different ways, as Figure 3.16 shows.
Chemical composition and crystal structure are the most important factors in determining the properties of a mineral, including shape, density, hardness, and color. Geologists use these properties to identify which minerals are present in rocks. Hematite, halite, gypsum, lime, and bauxite are all minerals, naturally formed materials that have a specific chemical composition and crystal structure. Minerals are the building blocks of rocks, which can be composed of one or more minerals in varying amounts.
The common physical properties used to identify minerals include crystal form, luster, color, streak, hardness, cleavage, fracture, and specific gravity. However there are other properties used to identify minerals as well. These include reaction to acid, taste, smell, and magnetism. Some of these tests are more accurate then others when identifying minerals. For example color is not as reliable test as hardness.
Other Identifying Characteristics [edit]. Minerals have some other properties that can be used to identify them. For example, a mineral's crystal structure can be used to help identify the mineral. Sometimes, a trained mineralogist can tell the crystal structure just by looking at the shape of the mineral. A mineral is more likely to break where the bonds between the atoms are weaker. Cleavage is the tendency of a mineral to break along certain planes to make smooth surfaces. Minerals with different crystal structures will cleave in different ways, as Figure 3.16 shows.
Properties of Minerals. The following physical properties of minerals can be easily used to identify a mineral: 1  Color. 2  Streak. 3  Hardness. 4  Cleavage or Fracture. 5  Crystalline Structure. 6  Diaphaneity or Amount of Transparency. 7  Tenacity. 8  Magnetism. 9  Luster. 10  Odor. 11  Taste. 12  Specific Gravity.
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. A mineral's hardness is not necessarily constant for all sides, which is a function of its structure; crystallographic weakness renders some directions softer than others. An example of this property exists in kyanite, which has a Mohs hardness of 5½ parallel to [001] but 7 parallel to [100].
Minerals are defined as naturally occurring, inorganic, solids with a definite chemical composition and a regular, internal crystalline structure. The keys to this definition are the chemical composition and the crystalline structure. Different chemical compositions result in different minerals. A good example is the mineral plagioclase. Albite has a chemical composition of NaAlSi. Different crystalline structures, or how the atoms and molecules are arranged, result in different minerals. A good example is diamond and graphite. Both minerals are composed of carbon (C).
Determination of the actual chemical composition and crystalline structure of a mineral is difficult without the proper equipment. In an introductory level lab it is impossible for us to determine these two aspects of a mineral. Fortunately, these two aspects determine a mineral's physical properties. Albite has a chemical composition of NaAlSi. Different crystalline structures, or how the atoms and molecules are arranged, result in different minerals. A good example is diamond and graphite. Both minerals are composed of carbon (C).
Identifying Minerals. Geologist often identify minerals based on their physical and chemical properties. A description of these properties are listed below. Many of these properties are controlled by the elements present in the mineral and their arrangement. Color-The most easily observed property, but usually the least useful. 