Made up of 80% water, elastin fibres and collagen floating in a glycoprotein gel, the dermis is the tissue supporting the skin. In contrast with the epidermis, it is vascularised, enabling it to not only provide energy and nutrition to the epidermis but also to play a primordial role in thermoregulation and in healing. Nerves skin deep. Nerves include free nerve endings, that penetrate the epidermis a little or are linked to nervous corpuscles including the Meissner, Pacini and Ruffini corpuscles, which generate sensations coming from the skin-touch, temperature, or pressure.
The dermis is made up of connective tissue: a gelatinous structure formed from connective fibres, which acts as a liaison and support system between the various tissues and cells. The dermis contains between 20 and 40% of the body's total water content and is between 10 and 40 times thicker than the epidermis. It is largely made up of: 1  Fibroblasts: the predominant cells in the dermis. 2  They synthesize the collagen, elastin and glycoprotein structural fibres. 3  The destruction of these fibres automatically occurs with age.
The dermis also contains blood and lymph vessels, hair follicles, sweat glands, and the sebaceous glands, which produce oil. Nerves in the dermis sense touch and pain. 1  Collagen: Collagen is the most abundant protein in the skin. 2  It makes up 75% of your skin. 3  This is also your fountain of youth, responsible for warding off wrinkles and fine lines. 1 Collagen: Collagen is the most abundant protein in the skin. 2  It makes up 75% of your skin. 3  This is also your fountain of youth, responsible for warding off wrinkles and fine lines. 4  Over time, environmental factors and aging diminish your body's ability to produce collagen.
It is largely made up of: 1  Fibroblasts: the predominant cells in the dermis. 2  Collagen: inelastic fibre and principle structural protein. 3  Elastin: elastic protein fibre that has the ability to stretch and contract thus providing tissues with suppleness and elasticity. 4  Extracellular matrix or ground substance in which the connective fibres bathe. It is largely made up of: 1  Fibroblasts: the predominant cells in the dermis. 2  They synthesize the collagen, elastin and glycoprotein structural fibres. 3  The destruction of these fibres automatically occurs with age.
Composition of the Dermis. It is largely made up of: 1  Fibroblasts: the predominant cells in the dermis. 2  They synthesize the collagen, elastin and glycoprotein structural fibres. 3  The destruction of these fibres automatically occurs with age.
A graphic representation of the interface between skin epithelium and the underlying connective tissue the reticular dermis. The dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which it makes up the cutis) and subcutaneous tissues, that consists of connective tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. It also contains Mechanoreceptors that provide the sense of touch and thermoreceptors that provide the sense of heat. In addition, hair follicles, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, apocrine glands, lymphatic vessels and blood vessels are present in the dermis.
Components of normal human skin Human skin consists of a stratiﬁed, cellular epidermis and an underlying dermis of connective tissue [1–5]. Thedermal–epidermal junction is undulating in section; ridges of the epidermis, known as rete ridges, project into thedermis. 
The reticular dermis accounts for the greater part of the dermis. On this level, the elastin and collagen fibres are multidirectional, whereas in the dermal papillae the elastin fibres are mainly oriented perpendicular to the skin surface. Nerves skin deep. Nerves include free nerve endings, that penetrate the epidermis a little or are linked to nervous corpuscles including the Meissner, Pacini and Ruffini corpuscles, which generate sensations coming from the skin-touch, temperature, or pressure.
Hairs, sweat glands, sebaceous glands and nails are structures associated with the skin. They have their roots in the dermis or even in the hypodermis. Thus, body hair is anchored in the dermis whereas the hair on the head, surrounded by a sheath of connective tissue, is anchored 4 mm down in the hypodermis. 
Apart from these cells, the dermis is also composed of matrix components such as collagen (which provides strength), elastin (which provides elasticity), and extrafibrillar matrix, an extracellular gel-like substance primarily composed of glycosaminoglycans (most notably hyaluronan), proteoglycans, and glycoproteins. It also contains Mechanoreceptors that provide the sense of touch and thermoreceptors that provide the sense of heat. In addition, hair follicles, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, apocrine glands, lymphatic vessels and blood vessels are present in the dermis.