up vote 0 down vote. Bring the water to a boil first then cover and reduce the heat to med-high, not low then set timer for 10 to 15 minutes depending on size of eggs and how done you want the center. I like them slightly soft and do extra large eggs at 11 minutes. 
Put eggs in a pot and cover with cold water. Bring to a boil. Boil for 5 minutes. Turn off heat, cover pot, and set a timer for 10 minutes. Done! Heidi says. That is how Rachael Ray does it. But I could never the time you boil for and set for. 1 (You want enough water in the pan so that you can boil for 15 to 20 minutes.). 2  Add eggs to basket and cover the pan with a lid. 3  Bring water to a boil then turn down the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes (depending on how “hard” you want them.). 4  Allow the eggs to cool enough to be able to handle and then peel them
This method works best if the eggs are in a single layer, but you can double them up as well, you'll just need to add more time to the steaming time. 3 Set your timer for 6 minutes for soft boiled, 10 minutes for hard boiled with a still translucent and bright yolk, or 12-15 minutes for cooked-through hard boiled. If you are not using a steamer basket, just fill the bottom of a saucepan with 1/2 inch of water. 2 Heat the water on high heat until it is boiling and producing steam. Turn off the heat and gently place the eggs at the bottom of the steamer basket or the bottom of the pan.
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more.
Directions. 1. If serving eggs cold, add 1 tray of ice cubes to a large bowl and fill with water. Fill a large pot with 1 inch of water. Place steamer insert inside, cover, and bring to a boil over high heat. Add eggs to steamer basket, cover, and continue cooking 6 minutes for soft boiled or 12 minute for hard. Serve immediately if serving hot.
Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 4 to 5 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool. 
Rinse your eggs in warm water (you can use eggs you just collected that morning, if you want) and place them in the top of the steamer. Steam for 20 minutes and then plunge the eggs into a bowl of ice water until they are cool enough to peel. :) I used to boil my eggs for 5+ minutes to get hard boiled eggs, but recently learned of this method which is I bring the water to a boil, put a cover on, turn off the heat and let them sit for 15 minutes, then into the ice cold water. It's not really steaming and not really boiling either, but somewhere in the middle.
1 Add eggs to basket and cover the pan with a lid. 2  Bring water to a boil then turn down the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes (depending on how “hard” you want them.). 3  Allow the eggs to cool enough to be able to handle and then peel them. 4  One-handed or two…it’s your call. 1 (You want enough water in the pan so that you can boil for 15 to 20 minutes.). 2  Add eggs to basket and cover the pan with a lid. 3  Bring water to a boil then turn down the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes (depending on how “hard” you want them.). 4  Allow the eggs to cool enough to be able to handle and then peel them