Noun. 1. Mount Fuji-an extinct volcano in south central Honshu that is the highest peak in Japan; last erupted in 1707; famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak; a sacred mountain and site for pilgrimages. Fujinoyama, Fuji-san, Fujiyama, Fuji.
Mt. Fuji is the tallest mountain in Japan (3,776.24 m) and is known widely for it's very symetricaly shaped cone. It is also an active volcano, having erupted last in 1707-8. Fuji-san has also been the subject of much art in Japan, most notably Hokusai's 36 views of Mt. Fuji. It is actually an active volcano, and is the most important peak symbolically in Japan. (People also call it Fuji-san to mean Mr. Fuji in a sense, because it's so familiar.). Some reasons for its importance: 1.
Mount Fuji is a distinctive feature of the geography of Japan. It stands 3,776.24 m (12,389 ft) high and is located near the Pacific coast of central Honshu, just west of Tokyo. It straddles the boundary of Shizuoka and Yamanashi prefectures. Other Japanese names for Mount Fuji, which have become obsolete or poetic, include Fuji-no-Yama (ふじの山, lit. the Mountain of Fuji) , Fuji-no-Takane (ふじの高嶺, lit. the High Peak of Fuji) , Fuyō-hō (芙蓉峰, lit. the Lotus Peak) , and Fugaku (富岳／富嶽, created by combining the first character of 富士, Fuji, and 岳, mountain) .
Mount Fuji (富士山, Fujisan, IPA: [ɸɯᵝꜜdʑisaɴ] (listen)) , located on Honshu Island, is the highest mountain in Japan at 3,776.24 m (12,389 ft). An active stratovolcano that last erupted in 1707–08, Mount Fuji lies about 100 kilometres (60 mi) south-west of Tokyo, and can be seen from there on a clear day. Other Japanese names for Mount Fuji, which have become obsolete or poetic, include Fuji-no-Yama (ふじの山, lit. the Mountain of Fuji) , Fuji-no-Takane (ふじの高嶺, lit. the High Peak of Fuji) , Fuyō-hō (芙蓉峰, lit. the Lotus Peak) , and Fugaku (富岳／富嶽, created by combining the first character of 富士, Fuji, and 岳, mountain) .
Mount Fuji-an extinct volcano in south central Honshu that is the highest peak in Japan; last erupted in 1707; famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak; a sacred mountain and site for pilgrimages. Fujinoyama, Fuji-san, Fujiyama, Fuji. 
Mt Fuji from Fujiyoshida. Fuji-san is sometimes referred to as Fuji Yama in some Western texts, because the third character of its name, 山 meaning mountain, can also be pronounced yama. However, this name is obsolete in Japan. In fact, the Japanese phrase Fujiyama, geisha means the Japan that is misunderstood by the West. Mount Fuji Name-Variations. Fuji-san is sometimes referred to as Fuji Yama in some Western texts, because the third character of its name, 山 meaning mountain, can also be pronounced yama.
Mt. Fuji is called Fuji-san in Japanese, written as 富士山, with 'san' = mountain. It is actually an active volcano, and is the most important peak symbolically in Japan. (People also call it Fuji-san to mean Mr. Fuji in a sense, because it's so familiar.). Some reasons for its importance: 1.
• MOUNT FUJI (noun). The noun MOUNT FUJI has 1 sense: 1. an extinct volcano in south central Honshu that is the highest peak in Japan; last erupted in 1707; famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak; a sacred mountain and site for pilgrimages. Familiarity information: MOUNT FUJI used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Mount Fuji [BACK TO TOP]. Meaning: An extinct volcano in south central Honshu that is the highest peak in Japan; last erupted in 1707; famous for its symmetrical snow-capped peak; a sacred mountain and site for pilgrimages.