What is the Egyptian Book of the Dead? It was believed by the ancient Egyptians that the Book of the Dead was written by Thoth. He was the scribe to the gods and was the one responsible for speaking the words of creation and putting it into effect. It's name is not a correct description of it. It is not surprising that there have been many myths and legends about the Great Pyramid of Giza. Even though we may not be able to distinguish which ones are true and which ones are false, it is interesting to read about some of them.
Description. The last of the Great Pyramids of Giza was the Pyramid of Menkaure, son of Khafre. Menkaure was the Sixth Ruler of the Fourth Dynasty of Egypt s Old Kingdom. Later an heir to Menkaure, Shepseskaf, would complete the Pyramid using mudbrick alongside the already placed limestone. PoM is wonderfully rich in dark amber and the sediment of limestone balanced beautifully with exotic balsam. Tangelo and NA s white Amber complete the Pyramid of Menkaure.
Contact us! The Riddle of the Sphinx Part I | Part II | Part III | Part IV. The Sphinx, seen from the front, with the pyramids of Khafre (right) and Menkaure (left) in the background. Note that the pyramid of Menkaure is much smaller than the pyramid of Khafre, giving the illusion of great distance. he term The Riddle of the Sphinx has an ancient heritage. 
Menkaure's pyramid had an original height of 65.5 metres (215 feet) and was the smallest of the three major pyramids at the Giza Necropolis. It now stands at 61 m (204 ft) tall with a base of 108.5 m. Its angle of incline is approximately 51°20′25″. It was constructed of limestone and granite. South of the pyramid of Menkaure are 3 satellite pyramids. The largest is made partly of granite, like the main pyramid, and is believed to have been completed due to the limestone pyramidion that was found closeby. Neither of the other 2 progressed beyond the construction of the inner core.
The last person who could read Hieroglyphic script died sometime in the 4th century AD, and as the ancient inscriptions became cryptic, real knowledge of the pyramid builders drowned in a sea of myths and legend. It would not be until modern times that we would once again gain any real factual knowledge about them. As the Coptic Christians came into domination in Egypt, the tales of the pyramids became much more wild. One legend states that: Then Surid ordered the building of the pyramids, had the sciences recorded in them, and had the treasures and pieces of sculpture put into them.
Menkaure's Pyramid, located on the Giza Plateau on the southwestern outskirts of Cairo, Egypt, is the smallest of the three Pyramids of Giza. It was built to serve as the tomb of the fourth dynasty Egyptian Pharaoh Menkaure. Menkaure's Pyramid had an original height of 65.5 meters (215 feet). It now stands at 62 m (203 ft) tall with a base of 105 m (344 ft). Its angle of incline is approximately 51°20′25″. It was constructed of limestone and granite.
The Pyramid of Menkaure, located on the Giza Plateau in the southwestern outskirts of Cairo, Egypt, is the smallest of the three main Pyramids of Giza. It is thought to have been built to serve as the tomb of the fourth dynasty Egyptian Pharaoh Menkaure. South of the pyramid of Menkaure are 3 satellite pyramids. The largest is made partly of granite, like the main pyramid, and is believed to have been completed due to the limestone pyramidion that was found closeby. Neither of the other 2 progressed beyond the construction of the inner core.
The Fourth Dynasty begins with Khufu the Great, the Cheops of the Greeks, who erected the largest pyramid in Egypt. His relationship to Sneferu. is uncertain. He was born in the Beni Hassan district, and was probably the son of a nobleman of royal birth. Sneferu may have left no direct heir or one who was a weakling. 
In 1899, a number of archaeologists drew lots for the excavation of the Giza Pyramids on the balcony of the Mena House Hotel. The concession for Menkaure was won by George Reisner, who, between 1905 and 1927, the led the Harvard University/Boston Museum expeditions. He had two sons that we know of, Khuenre, his eldest son who apparently died prior to Menkaure and was buried in a rock tomb (MQ 1) southeast of his father's pyramid, and Shepsekaft, who was his successor. he also had a daughter named Khentkawes.
One popular Arab legend maintained that the Great Pyramid was the tomb of Hermes, the Greek counterpart of the Egyptian Thoth who, like Surid, built pyramids to hide literature and science from the uninitiated and preserve them through the flood. As the Coptic Christians came into domination in Egypt, the tales of the pyramids became much more wild. One legend states that: Then Surid ordered the building of the pyramids, had the sciences recorded in them, and had the treasures and pieces of sculpture put into them.