Pyroluria is known by many different names including Pyrrole Disorder, Kryptopyrrole, Kryptopyrroluria, Pyrroluria, Pyrolle Disorder, Mauve Factor and Hemepyrrole. Pioneering Pyroluria researcher, Dr Carl Pfeiffer, stated on more that one occasion that stress is a major driver behind elevated HPL. Research confirms this and has shown that elevated stress levels can indeed increases the production of HPL (2,6,24) .
Pyroluria is a metabolic condition long recognized by those who practice orthomolecular medicine and orthomolecular psychiatry. However most doctors' medical associations do not recognise it because there are no pharmaceutical drugs to treat it, and it can be completely and effectively managed with basic supplements. 1 Stress is a trigger, and is one of the main factors that worsens pyroluria symptoms for those who already have it. ( 2 12,13) However, it is not clear if stress is an actual cause of the condition, especially in adults. 3  Chronic infection in infancy, childhood or adolescence. 4  Alcoholism of the sufferer or his/her parents.
Pyroluria is known by many different names including Pyrrole Disorder, Kryptopyrrole, Kryptopyrroluria, Pyrroluria, Pyrolle Disorder, Mauve Factor and Hemepyrrole. Pyroluria can best be described as the abnormal synthesis and metabolism of the oxygen carrying molecule in your blood, called haemoglobin. People who suffer from Pyroluria produce excessive amounts of these Pyrroles which bind to or inhibit the nutrients; Vitamin B6, Zinc (1-7), Biotin 8, and the Omega 6 Fat GLA from reaching their targets within your body. This effectively renders these nutrients unavailable to you.
The really good news is that once diagnosed, pyroluria is very manageable with the use of disciplined supplementation–typically requiring large doses of zinc and B6 (liquid ionic zinc and a co-enzymated form of B6 known as “P-5-P” tend to work best). If you’ve never heard of the condition, pyroluria, you’re not alone. Chances are your doctor hasn’t heard of it either, or isn’t too interested in it, even if he or she does know anything about it.
With pyroluria, some of the by-products of the synthesis of haemoglobin called kryptopyrroles are produced in excess by the liver and not fully excreted in the urine. These kryptopyrroles (more specifically hydroxyhemoppyrrolin-2-one or HPL) are normally harmless. 1 Stress is a trigger, and is one of the main factors that worsens pyroluria symptoms for those who already have it. ( 2 12,13) However, it is not clear if stress is an actual cause of the condition, especially in adults. 3  Chronic infection in infancy, childhood or adolescence. 4  Alcoholism of the sufferer or his/her parents.
PYROLURIA. Pyroluria is a genetically determined chemical imbalance involving an abnormality in hemoglobin synthesis. Hemoglobin is the protein that holds iron in the red blood cell. Individuals with this disorder produce too much of a byproduct of hemoglobin synthesis called kryptopyrrole (KP) or hemepyrrole.. Kryptopyrrole has no known function in the body and is excreted in urine.
In fact, pyroluria flares up when the individual is undergoing prolonged stress, such as during a chronic and debilitating illness. Symptoms also include sweet, fruity breath and body odor, general loss of appetite, motion sickness, problems with sugar metabolism, allergies. The root cause is the production of too much kryptopyrrole or hemepyrrole in the blood. A pyrrole is a chemical substance that is involved in the formation of heme, which makes blood red. Pyrroles bind with B6 and then with zinc, thus depleting these nutrients.
Pyroluria (pyrrole disorder, kryptopyrrole, kryptopyrroluria, pyrroluria, mauve factor or hemepyrrole) is a common metabolic condition that occurs when pyrrol, a key component of haemoglobin, is overproduced by the liver. As many as 10-15% of all people suffer from pyroluria. It is a lifelong condition, and symptoms tend to worsen with age and stress. Often people with pyroluria will suffer a variety of serious ailments and degenerative diseases for years, regardless of what therapies they try or how well they eat. 1 Stress is a trigger, and is one of the main factors that worsens pyroluria symptoms for those who already have it. ( 2 12,13) However, it is not clear if stress is an actual cause of the condition, especially in adults. 3  Chronic infection in infancy, childhood or adolescence. 4  Alcoholism of the sufferer or his/her parents.
BerkanaWay. Pyroluria is a condition whose root cause is an inborn genetic error in the production of too much kryptopyrrole (KP) in the blood. Elevated kryptopyrrole levels result from an abnormality in hemoglobin (the protein that holds iron in red blood cells)