Psychotherapy is another type of counseling treatment for anxiety disorders. It consists of talking with a trained mental health professional, psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker, or other counselor. Sessions may be used to explore the causes of anxiety and possible ways to cope with symptoms. Ultimately, the treatment path depends on the cause of the anxiety and the patient's preferences. Often treatments will consist of a combination of psychotherapy, behavioral therapy, and medications.
The standard approach to treating most anxiety disorders is a combination of talk therapy, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and an antidepressant medication. Other types of medications (benzodiazepines, azapirones, beta blockers, or atypical antipsychotics) may also be prescribed. Benzodiazepines are effective medications for most anxiety disorders and have been the standard of treatment for years. However, their longterm daily use is associated with a risk for dependency and abuse. Therefore, they have been replaced in most cases by SSRIs and other newer antidepressants.
Current diagnosis and treatment of anxiety disorders. Bystritsky A, Khalsa SS, Cameron ME, Schiffman J. Anxiety disorders are the most prevalent mental health conditions. Although they are less visible than schizophrenia, depression, and bipolar disorder, they can be just as disabling. 
Anxiety disorders are treatable, and the vast majority of people with an anxiety disorder can be helped with professional care. Success of treatment varies. Some may respond to treatment after a few weeks or months, while others may need more than a year. Treatment may be complicated if people have more than one anxiety disorder or if they suffer from depression, substance abuse, or other co-existing conditions. This is why treatment must be tailored specifically for each individual.
Anxiety is a life altering issue. That's why effective treatment choices are necessary. Like other mental health conditions, there needs to be some type of intervention-you cannot cure anxiety by wishing it away or waiting it out. You need something effective, and something that has been proven to generate results. Complementary treatments are anxiety treatments that can be used in addition to therapy, or whatever other type of treatment option you decide to use. In a way, they're designed to simply help you manage your personal anxiety.
Anxiety can be treated medically, with psychological counseling, or independently. Ultimately, the treatment path depends on the cause of the anxiety and the patient's preferences. Often treatments will consist of a combination of psychotherapy, behavioral therapy, and medications.
Anxiety is a debilitating disorder, but there are effective anxiety treatments that can help cure you of your anxiety. All you have to do is be willing to use them and commit to them, and find the ones that work best for you. Complementary treatments are anxiety treatments that can be used in addition to therapy, or whatever other type of treatment option you decide to use. In a way, they're designed to simply help you manage your personal anxiety.
1 For symptoms of depression they may have modest benefit, but they are not as effective as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) or other psychological treatment. 2  Find out more. 3  Meditation Moderate evidence suggests that meditation is useful for symptoms of anxiety and depression in adults. 4  Learn more. There is an ever-growing body of scientific evidence about complementary and alternative treatment, which is an approach to health care that exists outside conventional medicine practiced in the United States. Complementary medicine is used along with conventional medicine.
Self treatment for anxiety. In some cases, anxiety may be treated at home, without a doctor's supervision. However, this may be limited to situations in which the duration of the anxiety is short and the cause is identified and can be eliminated or avoided. Ultimately, the treatment path depends on the cause of the anxiety and the patient's preferences. Often treatments will consist of a combination of psychotherapy, behavioral therapy, and medications.
Alternative Treatment Methods For Anxiety. By Anne Ahira. Anxiety disorders can contribute to a variety of physical as well as mental complications especially when the symptoms have been ongoing for a long period of time. Some of these symptoms include muscle tension, fatigue, headache, and difficulty sleeping. 