Air is mainly composed of nitrogen, oxygen, and argon, which together constitute the major gases of the atmosphere. Water vapor accounts for roughly 0.25% of the atmosphere by mass. The first atmosphere would have consisted of gases in the solar nebula, primarily hydrogen. In addition, there would probably have been simple hydrides such as those now found in the gas giants (Jupiter and Saturn), notably water vapor, methane and ammonia.
Edit. Share to: the main three gases in air are nitrogen, oxygen and inert gases 78% of air is made up of nitrogen, 21% is oxygen, just under 1% is argon and the remaining part is made up o … f other gases such as carbon dioxide and water vapour. + 9 others found this useful. Answer The Earth's atmosphere contains roughly by volume: 78.08% nitrogen 20.95% oxygen 0.93% argon 0.038% carbon dioxide and trace amounts of other gases, and a variable amou … nt of water vapor. Approximate: + 11
Table 7a-1 lists the eleven most abundant gases found in the Earth's lower atmosphere by volume. Of the gases listed, nitrogen, oxygen, water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone are extremely important to the health of the Earth's biosphere. The table indicates that nitrogen and oxygen are the main components of the atmosphere by volume. Together these two gases make up approximately 99% of the dry atmosphere. Both of these gases have very important associations with life. The fifth most abundant gas in the atmosphere is carbon dioxide. The volume of this gas has increased by over 35% in the last three hundred years (see Figure 7a-1). This increase is primarily due to human induced burning from fossil fuels, deforestation, and other forms of land-use change.
By volume, dry air contains 78.09% nitrogen, 20.95% oxygen, 0.93% argon, 0.039% carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases. Air also contains a variable amount of water vapor, on average around 1% at sea level, and 0.4% over the entire atmosphere. The first atmosphere would have consisted of gases in the solar nebula, primarily hydrogen. In addition, there would probably have been simple hydrides such as those now found in the gas giants (Jupiter and Saturn), notably water vapor, methane and ammonia.
1 Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 2  Various trace gases make up the remainder. 3  Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3
The general concepts found in this section are: 1  The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3  Various trace gases make up the remainder.
What are the four main gases in the atmosphere? Answer The Earth's atmosphere contains roughly by volume: 78.08% nitrogen 20.95% oxygen 0.93% argon 0.038% carbon dioxide and trace amounts of other gases, and a variable amou … nt of water vapor. Approximate: + 11 others found this useful.
The pie chart shows the proportions of the main gases in the atmosphere. The composition of air. The two main gases are both elements and account for about 99 percent of the gases in the atmosphere. They are: 1  about 4 / 5 or 80 percent nitrogen (a relatively unreactive gas). 2  about 1 / 5 or 20 percent oxygen (the gas that allows animals and plants to respire and for fuels to burn)
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Without greenhouse gases, the average temperature of Earth's surface would be about 15 °C (27 °F) colder than the present average of 14 °C (57 °F). 
Composition of Earth's atmosphere by volume. The lower pie represents the trace gases that together compose about 0.038% of the atmosphere (0.043% with CO 2 at 2014 concentration). The numbers are from a variety of years (mainly 1987, with CO 2 and methane from 2009) and do not represent any single source. The first atmosphere would have consisted of gases in the solar nebula, primarily hydrogen. In addition, there would probably have been simple hydrides such as those now found in the gas giants (Jupiter and Saturn), notably water vapor, methane and ammonia.