Notes: A possessive adjective is similar or identical to a possessive pronoun; however, it is used as an adjective and modifies a noun or a noun phrase. For example: 1  I can't complete my assignment because I don't have the textbook. * 2  In this sentence, the possessive adjective  my  modifies the noun assignment. 1 * Here the possessive adjective  your  is used to modify the noun phrase phone number. 2  The cat chased its ball down the stairs and into the backyard. * 3  In this sentence, the possessive adjective  its  modifies ball.
Possessive adjectives are often confused with possessive pronouns. Examples: 1  Your bike is blue. ( 2 your is an adjective which modifies bike). 3  Mine is yellow. ( 4 mine is a pronoun which functions as the subject of the verb is). 1. Possessive adjectives are different from possessive pronouns. This is your (possessive adjective) book and this is mine (possessive pronoun). 2. its, their are possessive adjectives. Its color is beautiful. Their car is in their garage.
Possessive Adjectives – Definition and Examples. Also called possessive determiners, possessive adjectives refer to words which modify a noun by showing a form of possession or a sense of belonging to a particular person or thing. The 1 st person possessive adjectives “my” and “our” can be used for both male and female owners. However, the possessive adjective “my” is for singular owners, while the possessive adjective “our” is for plural ones. Example: 1  We sold our dune buggy yesterday.
As mentioned earlier, possessive adjectives are the words used to show a form of possession/ ownership or are used to express a close relationship with someone or something. The 1 st person possessive adjectives “my” and “our” can be used for both male and female owners. However, the possessive adjective “my” is for singular owners, while the possessive adjective “our” is for plural ones. Example: 1  We sold our dune buggy yesterday.
Remember, possessive pronouns are used to replace the noun. Possessive adjectives are used to describe the noun. Notice that some forms of the possessive adjective and possessive pronoun are the same (his, its). So, you have to look at how they are used in the sentence. It can also be used to replace a noun. Here is a list of the possessive pronouns : mine &nbsp&nbsp yours &nbsp&nbsp his &nbsp&nbsp hers &nbsp&nbsp its. ours theirs. A possessive adjective is an adjective that is used to show ownership. It comes before a noun in the sentence and lets us know to whom the noun belongs.
Do not confuse these possessive adjectives with possessive pronouns. A possessive pronoun does show ownership, but it does not come before a noun or in a noun phrase. It stands alone. It can also be used to replace a noun. Here is a list of the possessive pronouns : mine &nbsp&nbsp yours &nbsp&nbsp his &nbsp&nbsp hers &nbsp&nbsp its. ours theirs. A possessive adjective is an adjective that is used to show ownership. It comes before a noun in the sentence and lets us know to whom the noun belongs.
Possessive adjectives are used to indicate who (or what) owns something. Here are some possessive adjectives in sentences: A pronoun is a word that replaces a noun. As possessive adjectives replace nouns, they are classified as pronouns. For this reason, they are also called possessive pronouns. The term possessive pronoun covers all the pronouns that demonstrate ownership. Its has nothing to do with it's, which is a contraction of it is or it has. Read more about its and it's. YOU'RE IS NOT A POSSESSIVE ADJECTIVE. There is no apostrophe in the possessive adjective your.
Subject Pronouns I you he she it we you they Possessive Adjectives my your his her its our your their Examples: Why didn't you clean your room? (your modifies the noun room) Mary doesn't like her dress. (her modifies the noun dress) The chameleon can change its color. 1. Possessive adjectives are different from possessive pronouns. This is your (possessive adjective) book and this is mine (possessive pronoun). 2. its, their are possessive adjectives. Its color is beautiful. Their car is in their garage.