As with all supplements that aid in weight loss, adding apple cider vinegar to a balanced diet and regular exercise program will help you see better results. 
According to the USDA, apple cider vinegar has no measurable vitamin A, vitamin B6, vitamin C, vitamin E, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, beta-carotene, or folate -- and it's equally lacking in amino acids, lycopene, or any other nutritional elements. 1 Apple cider vinegar is highly acidic. 2  The main ingredient is acetic acid, which is quite harsh. 3  You should always dilute it with water or juice before swallowing. 4  Pure, straight apple cider vinegar could damage your tooth enamel or the tissues of your mouth and throat.
It contains acetic acid and nutrients such as B vitamins and vitamin C. Apple cider vinegar might help lower blood sugar levels in people with diabetes by changing how foods get absorbed from the gut. Apple cider vinegar might prevent the breakdown of some foods. It can be hard to know what’s in some apple cider vinegar products. Laboratory analysis of commercially available apple cider vinegar tablets shows wide variation in what they contain. Amounts of acetic acid ranged from about 1% to 10.57%. Amounts of citric acid ranged from 0% to about 18.5%.
1 It is a natural source of pectin, vitamins and minerals that are important in maintaining health and beauty properties.*. 2  Apple cider vinegar contains acetic acid (like other types of vinegar) and some lactic, citric and malic acids.*. 3  Supports digestion & circulation.*. 
Apple cider vinegar is fermented juice from crushed apples. Like apple juice, it probably contains some pectin; vitamins B1, B2, and B6; biotin; folic acid; niacin; pantothenic acid; and vitamin C. It also contains small amounts of the minerals sodium, phosphorous, potassium, calcium, iron, and magnesium. It can be hard to know what’s in some apple cider vinegar products. Laboratory analysis of commercially available apple cider vinegar tablets shows wide variation in what they contain. Amounts of acetic acid ranged from about 1% to 10.57%. Amounts of citric acid ranged from 0% to about 18.5%.
In addition to the acetic and malic acid, apple cider vinegar also possesses a number of characteristic acids, vitamins, mineral salts and amino acids. These nutrients work together to make cider vinegar the effective health tonic it is today. Among the tonic’s active ingredients are soluble fiber in the form of pectin, vitamin A, vitamin B6, vitamin C, vitamin E, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, beta-carotene and lycopene. Apple cider vinegar can be used effectively internally and externally. The vinegar is often used as an astringent or toner for treating a number of skin conditions. Other common ailments apple cider vinegar can treat include acne, sunburn, shingles, insect bites, dandruff, allergic reactions and vaginal infections. A fermented juice made from crushed apples, apple cider vinegar contains high concentrations of acetic acid, B vitamins, vitamin C and a host of other nutrients. All of these nutrients together function in the body to treat sickness and alleviate illness
The main ingredient of apple cider vinegar, or any vinegar, is acetic acid. However, vinegars also have other acids, vitamins, mineral salts and amino acids. Scientific evidence of apple cider vinegar benefits. Most claims made about apple cider vinegar online have no solid evidence to back them up. Some-like vinegar's supposed ability to treat lice or warts-have actually been studied, and researchers found nothing to support their use.
Apple cider vinegar is comprised of vitamins, mineral salts and amino acids. The main ingredient, acetic acid, is responsible for vinegar's bitter taste and strong odor. To make vinegar, apples are pulverized and then left to ferment. In addition, apple cider vinegar helps balance pH levels in the body and helps to maintain the body's natural alkaline state. When the body is alkaline, it is better equipped to stave off colds and other viruses that thrive in an acidic body.