The positive predictive value of mitral annular calcification for finding severe coronary artery disease was 92%. Conclusions: In patients aged ≤ 65 years, mitral annular calcification is associated with an increased prevalence of severe obstructive coronary artery disease. It may serve as a useful echocardiographic marker for the presence of obstructive coronary artery disease, especially when associated with anginal symptoms. A possible association between mitral annular calcification and coronary artery disease has recently been suggested. Objective: To determine the prevalence of severe coronary artery disease in younger patients with mitral annular calcification.
Epidemiology. The prevalence of mitral annular calcification (MAC) varies significantly among different populations and is also influenced by differences in age and the presence of comorbidities. In the Framingham study with an elderly population, the prevalence of MAC was 14%. Caseous calcification of the mitral valve is a rare form of MAC that typically affects the posterior annulus. The contents of the cavity are composed of a mixture of calcium, fatty acid, and cholesterol, with a ‘‘toothpaste-like’’ texture, and may present as an intracardiac mass or cavity.
Abstract. Caseous mitral annular calcification (CMAC) is a variant of mitral annular calcification (MAC) with a central liquefaction necrosis. The echocardiographic prevalence of CMAC is approximately 0.6% in patients with MAC and 0.06–0.07% in large series of patients of all ages. 
Background. Calcification of various cardiovascular structures is associated with aging. Mitral annular calcification (MAC) is a chronic degenerative process of the mitral valve ring; it was first described in 1908 by Bonninger as associated with complete heart block. Caseous calcification of the mitral valve is a rare form of MAC that typically affects the posterior annulus. The contents of the cavity are composed of a mixture of calcium, fatty acid, and cholesterol, with a ‘‘toothpaste-like’’ texture, and may present as an intracardiac mass or cavity.
Mitral annular calcification. From Wikiecho. Mitral annular calcification is common in the elderly and in the mild form isolated to the LV side of the posterior annulus. This can result in mild to moderate Mitral regurgitation, due to the rigidity of the annulus. 
Although annular calcification is associated with mitral regurgitation, this is usually trivial and asymptomatic. Calcification of the annulus can however impede AV nodal conduction and therefore lead to varying degrees of heart block. Compared to aortic valve calcification, calcification of the mitral annulus is not significantly associated with stenosis of the valve and it is no longer felt to represent an independent risk factor for stroke 1.
An increased prevalence of mitral annular calcification has also been found in patients with systemic hypertension, increased mitral valve stress, mitral valve prolapse, raised left ventricular systolic pressure, aortic valve stenosis, chronic renal failure, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and atrial fibrillation. A possible association between mitral annular calcification and coronary artery disease has recently been suggested. Objective: To determine the prevalence of severe coronary artery disease in younger patients with mitral annular calcification.
Mitral annular calcification is a chronic process in which there is deposition of calcium in the mitral valve annulus. The mitral annulus is typically flexible. In mitral annular calcification it becomes less flexible and thicker. Several studies have looked at the association of mitral annular calcification and the development of cardiac and other events. There is increased risk of heart attacks, stroke and death from cardiovascular causes. There is also an increased risk of development of atrial fibrillation with RVR, an irregular heart rhythm.
Mitral annular calcification (MAC) is a common degenerative process involving the fibrous annulus of the mitral valve. It is generally an incidental finding associated with aging, although it occasionally is prominent enough to cause significant left ventricular inflow obstruction and symptomatic mitral stenosis. 