Hydronephrosis can occur in one or both kidneys. The main function of the urinary tract is to remove wastes and fluid from the body. The urinary tract has four parts: the kidneys, the ureters, the bladder and urethra. The urine is formed when the kidneys filter blood and remove excess waste materials and fluid. Hydronephrosis is usually treated by addressing the underlying disease or cause, such as a kidney stone or infection. Some cases can be resolved without surgery. Infections can be treated with antibiotics. A kidney stone can pass through by itself or might be severe enough to require removal with surgery.
Hydronephrosis is a condition that typically occurs when one kidney becomes swollen due to the failure of normal drainage of urine from the kidney to the bladder. This swelling most commonly affects only one kidney, but both can be involved. Hydronephrosis is not a disease but a structural condition. This backflow of urine is called vesicoureteric reflux. Other causes of blockage may include: 1  a kink in the urteropelvic junction (where the ureter meets the pelvis of the kidney). 2  tumors in or near the ureter. 3  narrowing of the ureter from an injury or birth defect.
Hydronephrosis can also result from a condition that causes the abnormal reverse flow of urine from the bladder back up through the ureter into the kidney. Hydronephrosis can occur at any age, including in newborn infants born with the condition. Hydronephrosis occurs when an underlying disease, disorder or condition creates a partial or total obstruction or blockage of the ureter, the tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder. This results in pooling of urine in the kidneys accompanied by kidney swelling and distention.
There are many causes of hydronephrosis. In adults, the conditions that most often cause hydronephrosis include: 1  Kidney stones —Salts and minerals that are present in urine can form small hard stones that may become lodged in the kidneys or urinary tract. Other possible causes of hydronephrosis include: 1  Blood clots in the kidney or ureter. 2  Narrowing or stricture of the urinary tract due to injury, infection, birth defects or surgery. 3  Nerve or muscle problems that affect the kidneys or ureters. 4  Urinary retention due to an inability to empty the bladder
Hydronephrosis is not a disease in and of itself. Instead, it can be caused by a number of internal and external conditions that affect the kidney and the kidney urinary collecting system. One of the most common causes is a condition is called acute unilateral obstructive uropathy. This backflow of urine is called vesicoureteric reflux. Other causes of blockage may include: 1  a kink in the urteropelvic junction (where the ureter meets the pelvis of the kidney). 2  tumors in or near the ureter. 3  narrowing of the ureter from an injury or birth defect.
A blocked ureter can cause urine to go back up into the kidney, which causes swelling. This backflow of urine is called vesicoureteric reflux. Other causes of blockage may include: 1  a kink in the urteropelvic junction (where the ureter meets the pelvis of the kidney). 2  tumors in or near the ureter. 3  narrowing of the ureter from an injury or birth defect.
Hydronephrosis is usually caused by a blockage in the urinary tract or something disrupting the normal workings of the urinary tract. The urinary tract is made up of the kidneys, the bladder, the ureters (the tubes that run from the kidney to the bladder) and the urethra (the tube that carries urine out of the body). A blockage or problem in the urinary tract can mean urine is unable to drain from the kidneys or is able to flow the wrong way up into the kidneys. This can lead to a build-up of urine in the kidneys, causing them to become stretched and swollen.
Hydronephrosis is often caused by a kidney stone. There are many other potential causes of hydronephrosis, including ureter stones, tumors, enlarged prostate and reflux nephropathy associated with a birth defect or from multiple sclerosis. 
Hydronephrosis occurs when there is either a blockage of the outflow of urine, or reverse flow of urine already in the bladder (called reflux) that can cause the renal pelvis to become enlarged. Hydronephrosis may or may not cause symptoms. The main symptom is pain, either in the side and back (known as flank pain), abdomen or groin. Other symptoms can include pain during urination, other problems with urination (increased urge or frequency, incomplete urination, incontinence), nausea and fever. Hydronephrosis is usually treated by addressing the underlying disease or cause, such as a kidney stone or infection. Some cases can be resolved without surgery. Infections can be treated with antibiotics. A kidney stone can pass through by itself or might be severe enough to require removal with surgery.