Nerve Root Definition. Spine Anatomy Video. The nerve root is the portion of the nerve that runs through the bony canal and exits at each vertebral segment of the spinal cord. The spinal cord can be divided into segments according to the nerve roots that branch off of it. Nerve roots along the cord consist of 8 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, and 1 coccygeal nerves. Back pain arises from radiculopathy when the nerve roots in the regions of the spine are irritated as a result of direct pressure from a disc or inflammation of the nerve roots due to disc or spinal joint disease.
The disorder includes widespread pain, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and often depression. Immune system: A complex system that normally protects the body from infections. Inflammation: A reaction of tissues to injury or disease; inflammation is marked by swelling, redness, heat, and pain. In some cases, inflammation is not evident in chronic pain. Nerve block: The injection of a nerve-numbing substance into a group of nerves. Neuropathic: A description for a condition that is nerve-related. NSAIDs: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen used to treat pain and inflammation. 
Neuropathic pain: Chronic pain resulting from injury to the nervous system. The injury can be to the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) or the peripheral nervous system (nerves outside the brain and spinal cord). Neuropathic pain can occur after trauma and many diseases such as multiple sclerosis and stroke. It is common and affects more than 2 million people in the US alone.
The following are health and medical definitions of terms that appear in the Neuropathic Pain article. Abate: To lessen or decrease. For example, after a boil is lanced, the pus can drain and t... Alcoholism: Physical dependence on alcohol to the extent that stopping alcohol use would b... 
Knowledge center. Neuropathy is the term used to describe a problem with the nerves, usually the 'peripheral nerves' as opposed to the 'central nervous system' (the brain and spinal cord). Neuropathy is seen with a number of different underlying medical conditions. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Neuropathy is a common condition. 2  Neuropathy is a complication of a number of different medical conditions. 3  Three types of nerve can be involved; autonomic nerves, motor nerves and sensory nerves. 4  Sometimes single nerves, or nerve sets are affected
The term pinched nerve is a colloquial term and not a true medical term. It is used to describe one type of damage or injury to a nerve or set of nerves. The injury may result from compression, constriction, or stretching. Symptoms include numbness, pins and needles or burning sensations, and pain radiating outward from the injured area. A pinched nerve frequently is associated with pain in the neck or lower back. This type of pain can be caused by inflammation or pressure on the nerve root as it exits the spine.
P. PND-painful neuropathic disorder; any painful disorder where the pain is caused by nerve damage; such as diabetic neuropathy or post-herpetic neuralgia. papilledema-swelling/bruising of the optic nerve due to increased ICP. paresthesia-abnormal sensation, such as burning. pericardium-tissue surrounding the heart. This glossary is a compilation of terms that have been used in various articles in Chiari & Syringomyelia News. As such, it is not intended to be a complete glossary, but it is a good start and it will be updated periodically with new words and definitions.
The following are health and medical definitions of terms that appear in the Chronic Pain article. Acetaminophen: A nonaspirin pain reliever or analgesic. Acetaminophen may be given alone t... Acid indigestion: Excessive secretion of hydrochloric acid by the stomach cells. Gallstones: Stones that form when substances in the bile harden. Gallstones can be as smal... Headache: A pain in the head with the pain being above the eyes or the ears, behind the he... Hepatitis: Inflammation of the liver, irrespective of the cause. Hepatitis is caused by a ...