Visa Requirements. American citizens traveling to Turkey on U.S. passports must obtain a visa. Currently, holders of all types of passports can purchase a 90-day sticker visa at the port of entry for $20 cash if they are traveling to Turkey as tourists. The new regulation will not make any changes to the visa requirements for travel to Turkey but it will affect how long U.S. Citizens can remain in Turkey. The new regulation affects all foreigners who travel to Turkey.
Visa requirements for Turkish citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Turkey. In 2015, Turkish citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 102 countries and territories, ranking the Turkish passport 49th in the world (tied with Russia). 
Ordinary passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey and they can obtain their 90 day period multiple entry e-Visas via the website www.evisa.gov.tr. Bangladesh: Bangladeshi nationals holding diplomatic and official/service passport are exempted from visa for their travels up to 90 days. • The Electronic Visa (e-Visa) Application System was launched on 17 April 2013 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey. This system allows visitors travelling to Turkey to easily obtain their e-Visas online (www.evisa.gov.tr), in approximately three minutes.
required. Citizens of United States do not require a visa to transit through Kenyan airports for up to 24 hours, provided that they do not leave the International Transit Area of the airport. Kenya airport transit visa is not required for citizens of United States for a stay up to 1 day. 
Visas. You need a visa to enter Kenya. You can either get a visa on arrival at the airport, or before you travel. To minimise time spent queuing at the airport, get a visa before you travel. You can apply for single entry and transit visas on the evisas website. For other types of visa, apply at the nearest Kenyan High Commission or Embassy
Kenya Citizens Citizens of Kenya holding diplomatic, official, service and special passport are exempted from visa for their travels and transit to/from Turkey up to 90 days within 180 days, starting from the first entry date. Turkish visa requirements for Kenya citizens informations on this page was gathered from Republic of Turkey Ministry of Foreign Affairs-http://www.mfa.gov.tr. Information can be different by the time you are reading this pag
In 2015, Kenyan citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 70 countries and territories, ranking the Kenyan passport 70th in the world (tied with Bahrain, Namibia and Suriname) according to the Visa Restrictions Index. 
Holders of official and diplomatic passports on official business must obtain a visa from a Turkish embassy or consulate before arrival in Turkey. All travelers planning to stay more than three months for any purpose are required to obtain a visa from a Turkish embassy or consulate. Such travelers must also apply for a residence/work permit or Turkish ID card within the first month of their arrival in Turkey. The new regulation will not make any changes to the visa requirements for travel to Turkey but it will affect how long U.S. Citizens can remain in Turkey. The new regulation affects all foreigners who travel to Turkey.