The immune system is complex and pervasive. There are numerous cell types that either circulate throughout the body or reside in a particular tissue. Each cell type plays a unique role, with different ways of recognizing problems, communicating with other cells, and performing their functions. Skin: The skin is usually the first line of defense against microbes. Skin cells produce and secrete important antimicrobial proteins, and immune cells can be found in specific layers of skin. Bone marrow: The bone marrow contains stems cells that can develop into a variety of cell types.
The integumentary system is the organ system that protects the body from various kinds of damage, such as loss of water or abrasion from outside. The system comprises the skin and its appendages (including hair, scales, feathers, hooves, and nails). 
Skin, the largest organ of the body, is a formidable barrier to infection. Not only does the skin function as an impressive physical obstacle, but like the walls of a castle, it's also an unfriendly environment for many microbes. The skin's surface is slightly acidic and some areas are quite dry; neither condition suits many microbes, which like moisture and a less acidic environment.
Disorders of the Immune System. Allergy skin test. Credit: NIAID. Complications arise when the immune system does not function properly. Some issues are less pervasive, such as pollen allergy, while others are extensive, such as genetic disorders that wipe out the presence or function of an entire set of immune cells. 
Introduction. The integumentary system consists of the skin, hair, nails, glands, and nerves. Its main function is to act as a barrier to protect the body from the outside world. It also functions to retain body fluids, protect against disease, eliminate waste products, and regulate body temperature. 
When look at the function of cilia in the immune system, you mainly refer to the cilia present in the respiratory system. Cilia, along with mucus, are part of the innate immun … ity your body has. Mucus in respiratory tubes traps most microbes and dust that get past the nasal filter (nasal hair). go to   http://www.bprc.nl/BPRCE/L4/Iwhatdo.html   for functions   the function of the immune system is to defend you by destroying invaders (viruses and infections). one defence is to attack the invaders directly with white blood cells which contain a great amount of lysosomes.
The skin is an immunologic organ. There are an estimated 20 billion T cells in human skin — far greater than the number of T cells in the blood — suggesting that immune defense in the skin is a high priority. The interaction among skin microorganisms and the immune system is likely not adversarial most of the time. Interestingly, the incidence of inflammatory skin conditions like atopic dermatitis in children has about doubled in the last thirty years, in parallel with the decreased exposure to microorganisms in early life.
The immune system can distinguish between normal, healthy cells and unhealthy cells by recognizing a variety of danger cues called danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Cells may be unhealthy because of infection or because of cellular damage caused by non-infectious agents like sunburn or cancer. Skin: The skin is usually the first line of defense against microbes. Skin cells produce and secrete important antimicrobial proteins, and immune cells can be found in specific layers of skin. Bone marrow: The bone marrow contains stems cells that can develop into a variety of cell types.
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs. The functions of this system include the absorbtion of excess fluid and its return to the blood stream, absorption of fat (in the villi of the small intestine) and the immune system function. Antigens are chemicals on the surface of a cell. All cells have these. The immune system checks cells and identifies them as self or non-self. Antibodies are proteins produced by certain lymphocytes in response to a specific antigen.
The most obvious part of the immune system is what you can see. For example, skin is an important part of the immune system. It acts as a primary boundary between germs and your body. Part of your skin's job is to act as a barrier in much the same way we use plastic wrap to protect food. Skin is tough and generally impermeable to bacteria and viruses