Aldehydes and Ketones When a primary (10) alcohol is oxidized, the product is an aldehyde, while a second (2 0) alcohol yield a ketone. The –CHO group of an aldehyde is easily oxidized to a carboxylic acid: ox. R--------CHO-------R---------COOH aldehyde carboxylic acid Ketones on the other hand, resist oxidation. This difference is the basis of several common laboratory tests that distinguish aldehydes from ketones. Yes √ No √ √ acidic √ neutral basic. An unknown is a ketone.Carboxylic acids are weaker acid than the mineral acid but are stronger acids than the alcohols and phenols. most probably a nail polish remover. we conclude that: 1. Benedict’s reagents are a weak oxidation agent that only reacts with aliphatic aldehydes.
Nomenclature of Aldehydes and Ketones. Aldehydes and ketones are organic compounds which incorporate a carbonyl functional group, C=O. The carbon atom of this group has two remaining bonds that may be occupied by hydrogen or alkyl or aryl substituents. If at least one of these substituents is hydrogen, the compound is an aldehyde. 
An aldehyde /ˈaeldɨhaɪd/ ˈældɨhaɪd or alkanal is an organic compound containing a formyl. Group the formyl group is a functional, group with the Structure-R, cho consisting of a carbonyl (center a carbon double bonded to) oxygen bonded to hydrogen and An r, group which is any generic alkyl or side. chain Because of resonance stabilization of the conjugate base, an α-hydrogen in an aldehyde (not shown in the picture above) is far more acidic, with a pKa near 17, than a C-H bond in a typical alkane (pKa about 50).
In an aldehyde, the carbonyl group is on the end of the molecule. In a ketone, the carbonyl group is somewhere in the middle of the molecule. Example structures of aldehydes and ketones are given below. Carboxylic acids contain the carboxyl functional group, shown below. Physical Properties Aldehydes and ketones are polar because they contain a carbonyl group (oxygen is very electronegative compared to carbon).
Without studying the carbonyl group in depth we have already encountered numerous examples of this functional group (ketones, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, acid chlorides, etc). The simplest carbonyl compounds are aldehydes and ketones. A ketone has two alkyl (or aryl) groups bonded to the carbonyl carbon. Ch18 Ketones and Aldehydes (landscape) Page 17 The carbonyl group is a weak base, and in acidic solution it can become protonated. This makes the carbon very electrophilic (see resonance structures), and so it will react with poor nucleophiles.
The formyl group is a functional group, with the structure R-CHO, consisting of a carbonyl center (a carbon double bonded to oxygen) bonded to hydrogen and an R group, which is any generic alkyl or side chain. The group without R is called the aldehyde group or formyl group. Because of resonance stabilization of the conjugate base, an α-hydrogen in an aldehyde (not shown in the picture above) is far more acidic, with a pKa near 17, than a C-H bond in a typical alkane (pKa about 50).
Ch18 Ketones and Aldehydes (landscape) Page 13 However, to circumvent this problem, carboxylic acids can be converted first into a functional group that is easier to reduce than an aldehyde group. The group of choice is an acid chloride. Ch18 Ketones and Aldehydes (landscape) Page 17 The carbonyl group is a weak base, and in acidic solution it can become protonated. This makes the carbon very electrophilic (see resonance structures), and so it will react with poor nucleophiles.
35 Acetone (MM = 60) Experiment 7 – Aldehydes, Ketones, and Carboxylic Acids Aldehydes and ketones are molecules that contain a carbonyl group, which is an oxygen atom with a double bond to a carbon atom. Carboxylic acids contain the carboxyl functional group, shown below. Physical Properties Aldehydes and ketones are polar because they contain a carbonyl group (oxygen is very electronegative compared to carbon).
Aldehyde, Ketone, Carboxylic Acid. Aldehyde: Aldehyde is an organic compound which contain formyl group. This functional group, in its structure R-CHO, consist of carboxyl centre bonded to R group and hydrogen. The group with R is called as formyl group and aldehyde group.