Report Abuse. However long it takes for your hair to grow out is how long it will take for the perm to wear off. You could always blow dry it straight every day, which is not something I recommend due to the frizz factor, but the perm will wear off. bee · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
· just now. Report Abuse. You will either have to cut all the perm out, or let it grow out. You said your African American so you relaxed your hair straight and it take 6 months to a year for the perm to grow off your hair unless you cut it all off. Sorry! Reece_Cabrera · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. First you could grow your hair out to a desired length and then cut the relaxed hair off or you could just cut your hair where it is now and let it grow back naturally. Either way you have to wait. Source(s): StarBlings
Don’t trim too often. Many times you will need to cut your hair ends every 6-8 weeks to get rid of your split ends. At minimum, you should be cutting 1/2 and inch off your hair (your split ends) every 3-4 months. Because hair is made of dead tissue, the myth that trimming it will cause it to grow faster is not true. 
Perms take one to two hours, depending on how long your hair is and how fast your stylist is. Your stylist will apply a single chemical solution to break the structural bonds in your hair, and another called a neutralizer.. Also keep in mind, a perm takes 28 hours to relax. 
General Considerations. Hair grows approximately ½ inch per month, for a total of six inches in one year. This rate is an average across races. Asian hair grows slightly faster than this average, Caucasian hair grows near the average,and black hair trends to grow at or just below this average each month. Many factors determine the length of time it takes for a person to grow out their hair and reach certain hair lengths. This article will try to offer some guidance for length planning. As you read, bear in mind that the time estimates listed for growing out the hair in this article are just that-estimates.
I can't wait until it grows out It really depends how long your hair is and how long you want it to stay. Hair typically grows about 1/2 per month and curlies have varying degrees of shrinkage, so it doesn't always LOOK like a 1/2 per month. 
Time Frame. The amount of time it takes to grow hair relaxer out depends on how quickly your hair grows and how long you want your hair to be before you cut the relaxed hair off. According to the Mayo Clinic, hair grows about a 1/2 inch each month during its growth phase, though this varies from person to person. 
WRIGHT: Hair grows a quarter of an inch a month. In a year, you could cut off the relaxed portion and wear a short natural style. If you want long hair, it'll take another year. ESSENCE.com: Hair breakage is common side effect of growing out your relaxer. 
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehowbeauty. Typically, when you have a relaxer in your hair and you're trying to grow it out, what you would like to do is start to balance the two textures. Learn how to reverse perms for black women with help from the creator of ALT Hair Care products and the owner of Ryan Foster Inc. in this free video clip. 
Because, your hair grows a half an inch every month, so by cutting an inch to half an inch off every month, your hair basically will never grow. But, before you start trying to grow out your long locks, make sure your hair is healthy and not damaged. Tips. 1  To keep your hair in good condition between trims, use shears to cut off the little flyaways that stick out. 2  To do this, take a section of hair, twist it a bunch, and then snip off the ends of any strands that stick out from this spiral. 3  Use dandruff shampoo.