Welcome to the Canadian Cheese Directory, a comprehensive database dedicated solely to Canadian cheeses made from cow, goat, sheep, or buffalo milk. Canada produces more than 1050 cheeses that are listed in the Canadian Cheese Directory. 
Canadian-manufactured machinery and equipment have been used in energy development and production throughout the world. In the second half of the 20th century, four key developments in trade policies and practices significantly affected Canadian manufacturers. Eighteenth Century. Manufacturing in Canada began early in the 18th century with the introduction of gristmills to process grains into flour. The first gristmills were built in New France in the 17th century and, by 1840, there were 400 in Upper Canada and Lower Canada producing flour for domestic and foreign markets.
Manufacturing. Manufacturing is a critical component of Canada’s economy. The production, sale and distribution of finished products contribute to consumer and labour markets, and secure Canada’s position as an economic leader among developed nations. Manufacturing is a critical component of Canada’s economy. The production, sale and distribution of finished products contribute to consumer and labour markets, and secure Canada’s position as an economic leader among developed nations. Eighteenth Century. Manufacturing in Canada began early in the 18th century with the introduction of gristmills to process grains into flour. The first gristmills were built in New France in the 17th century and, by 1840, there were 400 in Upper Canada and Lower Canada producing flour for domestic and foreign markets.
The automotive industry in Canada consists primarily of assembly plants of foreign automakers, most with headquarters in the United States or Japan, along with hundreds of manufacturers of automotive parts and systems. The 1964 Automotive Products Trade Agreement or “Auto Pact” represents the single most important factor in making the Canadian automotive industry what it is today. Key features of the Auto Pact were the 1:1 production to sales ratio and Canadian Value Added requirements.
What We Do. As Canada's largest trade and industry association, CME focuses on the issues that are most critical to our members – manufacturing competitiveness, US business, international markets, people and skills, energy, and the environment. Your challenges are our priorities. 1 Tailored exclusively to the needs of our members, CME's Industry Benefits Program delivers more than $60,000 in discount savings and instant value on the services and products you use most.
Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters (CME) is Canadas leading trade and industry association and the voice of manufacturing and global business in Canada. The association represents more than 10,000 leading companies nationwide. More than 85% of CMEs members are small and medium-sized enterprises. Some of the information on this Web page has been provided by external sources. The Government of Canada is not responsible for the accuracy, reliability or currency of the information suppli
As a result, many U.S. manufacturers will find they do not have products rated for the water penetration requirements in Canadian coastal markets where water penetration resistance levels greater than 15% or 20% of design pressure are required. NAFS changes everything about window and door selection and product testing in Canada, and it’s fair to say that there is currently a great deal of confusion and misunderstanding about how NAFS is to be applied to Part 3 (“Commercial”) and Part 9 (“Residential”) buildings in Canada.
Shoes and Sandals. Presented below is a list of Canadian footwear manufacturers. These brief descriptions of each manufacturer are drawn from the Canadian Companies Capabilities database located on the Strategis Internet site. If your company manufactures this category of footwear in Canada, and you are not featured in this listing, then please register your company at no charge. 1  Search This Directory. 2  Register / Update. 3  Ambulatory Footwear [web site]. 4  Auclair & Martineau Inc. [web site]. 5  Blaklader Workwear [web site]. 6  B.O.K. 7  Boss Canada Inc. [web site]. 8  Boulet Inc. ....
To that end we've created our Election 2015 portal to update Canadians on the importance of the manufacturing and exporting sectors to the Canadian economy and to detail our messages to Canada's political leaders. 
Canada's share of the world's exports of manufactured goods rose from 4.5 per cent to 6 per cent only to fall back to 4.5 per cent by the end of the 20th century. The emergence of Japan, Europe and China as global industrial powers has meant tougher competition for Canadian manufacturers. Eighteenth Century. Manufacturing in Canada began early in the 18th century with the introduction of gristmills to process grains into flour. The first gristmills were built in New France in the 17th century and, by 1840, there were 400 in Upper Canada and Lower Canada producing flour for domestic and foreign markets.