Adamantine can refer to: 1  Adamant, mythical material adamant or adamantine. 2  Adamantine lustre, non-metallic, brilliant light reflecting and transmitting properties of minerals. 3  Adamantine spar, mineral, a variety of corundum. 
Nonmetallic luster is the type of luster for minerals that do not look metallic. These are further divided into different types: Adamantine. Minerals that have remarkable shine and brilliance and have the hard look of a diamond are called adamantine. These minerals can be transparent or translucent, and the most popular examples are found in jewelry and accessory stores: diamonds and cubic zirconia. 
Confidence votes 1. Adamantine is a mineral, often referred to as adamantine spar. It is a silky brown form of corundum. It has a Mohs rating of 9. Adamantine is also used as an adjective to refer to non-metallic, brilliant light reflecting and transmitting properties, known as adamantine luster.
Examples of nonmetallic lusters commonly seen in the gemstone industry include vitreous, pearly, resinous, greasy, adamantine, silky, and dull. Vitreous, sometimes referred to as glassy, refers to a shiny, glass-like luster and is characteristic of most gem minerals, such as quartz and tourmaline. Talc is an example of a mineral with a pearly luster. The term resinous is used to denote minerals that resemble resin, such as sphalerite. Minerals with a greasy luster appear as though they have a layer of oil or fat coating them. An example of a mineral with a greasy luster is graphite. An adamantine luster refers to a brilliant, mirror-like luster, such as the luster seen in diamonds. If a gem has a silky luster, this means that the fibers of the mineral are arranged in parallel, similar to the look and texture of silk
Luster describes how a mineral appears to reflects light, and how brilliant or dull the mineral is. The terms used to describe luster are: 1  Metallic (also known as splendent). 2  Submetallic. 3  Vitreous (also known as glassy). 4  Adamantine (also known as brilliant or diamondlike). 5  Resinous (also known as resinlike). 6  Silky. 7  Pearly (also known as mother-of-pearl).
Diamond shows the definitive adamantine luster (extremely shiny, even fiery), but only on a clean crystal face or fracture surface. This specimen has a luster better described as greasy. 
Metallic-Minerals with a metallic luster are opaque and reflective, like metal. The metal lic elements, most sulfides, and some oxides belong in this category. Submetallic-Describes a mineral that is opaque to nearly opaque and reflects well. Thin splinters or sections of submetallic minerals are translucent. The terms used to describe luster are: 1  Metallic (also known as splendent). 2  Submetallic. 3  Vitreous (also known as glassy). 4  Adamantine (also known as brilliant or diamondlike). 5  Resinous (also known as resinlike). 6  Silky. 7  Pearly (also known as mother-of-pearl).
Lustre or luster is the way light interacts with the surface of a crystal, rock, or mineral. The word traces its origins back to the latin lux, meaning light, and generally implies radiance, gloss, or brilliance. A range of terms are used to describe lustre, such as earthy, metallic, greasy, and silky. Similarly, the term vitreous (derived from the Latin for glass, vitrum) refers to a glassy lustre. A list of these terms is given below.
Adamantine minerals possess a superlative lustre, which is most notably seen in diamond. Such minerals are transparent or translucent, and have a high refractive index (of 1.9 or more). Minerals with a true adamantine lustre are uncommon, with examples being cerussite and Cubic zirconia. A range of terms are used to describe lustre, such as earthy, metallic, greasy, and silky. Similarly, the term vitreous (derived from the Latin for glass, vitrum) refers to a glassy lustre. A list of these terms is given below.