Note: the equivalent UPC small format barcode, UPC-E ,encodes a GTIN-12 with a special Company Prefix that allows for zero suppression of 4 zeros in the GTIN-12. The GS1 encoding/decoding rules state that the entire GTIN-12 is used for encoding and that the entire GTIN-12 is to be delivered when scanned. The Global Trade Item Number, GTIN, is an identification number that may be encoded in UPC-A, UPC-E, EAN-8 & EAN-13 barcodes as well as other barcodes in the GS1 System. 1  European Article Number-EAN.
Today, five symbologies support this GTIN data structure: UPC; EAN; ITF-14; UCC/EAN Code 128; and GS1 Databar (formerly Reduced Space Symbology). Of these, ITF-14, GS1-128, and GS1 Databar employ 14-digit data structures of which the 14th character is a packaging level indicator (i.e., item or case). Currently, GTIN is used exclusively within bar codes, but it could also be used in other data carriers such as radio frequency identification (RFID). The GTIN is only a term and does not impact any existing standards, nor does it place any additional requirements on scanning hardware.
GTIN describes a family of GS1 (EAN.UCC) global data structures that employ 14 digits and can be encoded into various types of data carriers. Currently, GTIN is used exclusively within bar codes, but it could also be used in other data carriers such as radio frequency identification (RFID). The GTIN is only a term and does not impact any existing standards, nor does it place any additional requirements on scanning hardware.
The GTIN was developed to facilitate the global flow of products and services. With GTIN, products and services are uniquely identified at all levels of packaging, allowing for simplified supply chain management while employing the globally accepted and utilized EAN/UCC system whose language is understood globally. A GTIN is used for identifying products worldwide within the EAN/UCC System. A GTIN is a 14-digit number though its bar code may contain only 12-digits (UPC), 13-digits (EAN-12) or 8-digits (EAN-8).
The GTIN is a globally unique 14-digit number used to identify trade items, products, or services. GTIN is also an umbrella term that refers to the entire family of UCC.EAN data structures. The entire family of data structures within the GTIN is: Currently, GTIN is used exclusively within bar codes, but it could also be used in other data carriers such as radio frequency identification (RFID). The GTIN is only a term and does not impact any existing standards, nor does it place any additional requirements on scanning hardware.
GTIN-13 barcode is the new name GS1 has given to the EAN-13 barcode recently. GTIN-13 codes consist of a barcode symbol in the EAN-13 symbology and are used to scan a given 13-digit GTIN number, formerly called EAN number. The structure of the GTIN-13 barcode is 1-6-6. The GTIN-13 code has one digit to the left of the barcode and two groups of six digits below. YES, the first digit on the left IS PART of the EAN NUMBER!
Global Trade Item Number (GTIN) can be used by a company to uniquely identify all of its trade items. GS1 defines trade items as products or services that are priced, ordered or invoiced at any point in the supply chain. 
The numbering structure is as follows: 1  T1 - Indicator digit, used for GTIN-14, 1 to 8 indicates a packaging level and 9 a variable measure item. 2  T2 through T13 GS1 Company Prefix & Item (product or service) reference number. 3  T14 is a check digit, which follows the standard modulo 10 calculation. The Global Trade Item Number, GTIN, is an identification number that may be encoded in UPC-A, UPC-E, EAN-8 & EAN-13 barcodes as well as other barcodes in the GS1 System. 1  European Article Number-EAN.
The GTIN-13 code is a 13-digit number that uniquely identifies retail products. The GTIN-13 system is the new name of the EAN number system was originally developed by EAN International in Europe back in the 1970's and recently renamed by GS1. The structure of the GTIN-13 barcode is 1-6-6. The GTIN-13 code has one digit to the left of the barcode and two groups of six digits below. YES, the first digit on the left IS PART of the EAN NUMBER!
If you buy products in a retail environment, then you are familiar with the bar codes you see on most products in any of your local retail stores. This is called a GS1-12, or UPC-A code, it is 12 digits long and looks something like this: The UPC number itself is referred to as the GTIN-Global Trade Item Number. The GTIN is made up of your GS1 Company Prefix and the number that you have assigned to that unique product. 