1 All of them live in Africa or Arabia. 2  Baboons are some of the world's largest monkeys, and males of different species average from 33 to 82 pounds (15 to 37 kilograms). 3  Baboon bodies are 20 to 40 inches (60 to 102 centimeters) long, not including substantial tails of varying lengths. 1 The two most common baboons live in East Africa, the olive baboon and the yellow baboon. 2  Considered Old World monkeys due to their nose shape and lack of tails, these animals live in large, multi-male troops.
Baboons: Basic Information. Baboons are large monkeys that live in a wide variety of habitats across sub-Saharan Africa, from the Horn of Africa and the southwestern Arabian Peninsula to Senegal in West Africa southwards to Cape Agulhas and the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa. 
Fast Facts. There are five different species of baboons. All of them live in Africa or Arabia. Baboons are some of the world's largest monkeys, and males of different species average from 33 to 82 pounds (15 to 37 kilograms). Baboon bodies are 20 to 40 inches (60 to 102 centimeters) long, not including substantial tails of varying lengths. Baboons generally prefer savanna and other semi-arid habitats, though a few live in tropical forests. Like other Old World monkeys, baboons do not have prehensile (gripping) tails. But they can and do climb trees to sleep, eat, or look out for trouble
04 Mar, 2013 where do 0. Baboons are a group of monkeys best known for the bright colored swelling on their behinds. Like many primates, baboons are social animals and live in troops of up to 250 animals. They are ground dwelling animals where they spend a good deal of time foraging for food. It is generally accepted that there are five species of baboons, but some experts actually believe these should be classified as subspecies
Confidence votes 599. Chacma baboons are found pretty much throughout South Africa, in the Kruger National Park and other national parks. One place where the Chacma baboons are still found is the Cape of Good Hope Nature Reserve, near the southern tip of Cape Town in the area known as Cape Point
Audio. There are five different species of baboons. All of them live in Africa or Arabia. Baboons are some of the world's largest monkeys, and males of different species average from 33 to 82 pounds (15 to 37 kilograms). Baboon bodies are 20 to 40 inches (60 to 102 centimeters) long, not including substantial tails of varying lengths. Baboons generally prefer savanna and other semi-arid habitats, though a few live in tropical forests. Like other Old World monkeys, baboons do not have prehensile (gripping) tails. But they can and do climb trees to sleep, eat, or look out for trouble
Baboons are some of the world’s largest monkeys. There are five species of baboon—olive, yellow, chacma, Guinea, and hamadryas—scattered across various habitats in Africa and Arabia. The baboon, like other Old World monkeys, does not have a prehensile (gripping) tail, but it is still able to climb when necessary. Baboons are found in surprisingly varied habitats and are extremely adaptable. They generally prefer semiarid habitats, like savannas, but some live in tropical forests. The major requirements for any habitat seem to be water sources and safe sleeping places—either in tall trees or on cliff faces.