Commercial lecithin, as used by food manufacturers, is a mixture of phospholipids in oil. The lecithin can be obtained by water degumming the extracted oil of seeds. It is a mixture of various phospholipids, and the composition depends on the origin of the lecithin. A major source of lecithin is soybean oil. Lecithin is sold as a food supplement and for medical uses. In cooking, it is sometimes used as an emulsifier and to prevent sticking, for example in nonstick cooking spray.
Foods with soy lecithin may need to be avoided if you have a soy allergy. Soy lecithin is present in many different foods. Since it is derived from soybeans, anyone with this food allergy needs to avoid foods made with soy products. In some cases, people who are allergic to soy are able to eat soy lecithin. 
Animal-derived foods are good sources of choline. Photo Credit YelenaYemchuk/iStock/Getty Images. Lecithin, or phosphatidylcholine, is one of the most abundant phospholipids, which are the structures that make up your cell membranes. Your body makes lecithin by breaking down the phosphatidylcholine in the foods you eat into choline and some phosphates, then building it up into lecithin for your own cells. Food analysis laboratories typically analyze the choline content of food, and foods with a high amount of choline are also high in lecithin. Animal-derived foods are the best sources of choline, and you should aim for at least 425 to 550 milligrams per day. Legumes are rich in lecithin, and 1 cup of soymilk or cooked beans, such as kidney or black, provides about 70 to 80 milligrams choline. Peanut butter has 20 milligrams choline per 2 tablespoons serving, and soybean lecithin oil has 48 milligrams in a 1 tablespoon serving.
Lecithin contains fatty acids, which can be saturated or unsaturated, depending on the food. Your own liver produces lecithin as a component of bile to digest fat. Therefore, it's not a requirement in your diet. High amounts of lecithin occur in animal-based foods, including meat, eggs and dairy. In meat, the greatest amount of lecithin occurs in animal brains, kidneys and liver. Other good sources of lecithin are whole grains and soy beans.
Foods with Lecithin. High amounts of lecithin occur in animal-based foods, including meat, eggs and dairy. In meat, the greatest amount of lecithin occurs in animal brains, kidneys and liver. Other good sources of lecithin are whole grains and soy beans. Fruits and vegetables contain small amounts of l
48: LECITHIN. Lecithin belongs to a class of lipids (fats) known as phospholipids, because they contain phosphorus. Lecithin also contains choline, which can be used to make a brain chemical, acetylcholine, used to transmit information between some nerve cells, and also between nerve and muscle. These same fatty acids can be obtained from lipids other than lecithin. Lecithin is not an essential dietary item as the body can produce enough of its own. It is a component of bile, produced by the liver, which is used to aid the digestion of fat.
Soybeans are well-recognized as allergenic foods. The soybean allergens are found in the protein fraction. The vast majority of this protein is removed in the soy lecithin manufacturing process. Soy lecithin does contain trace levels of soy proteins and these have been found to include soy allergens. Many allergists do not even advise their soybean-allergic patients to avoid soybean lecithin when it is included as an ingredient on food products. From this practical standpoint, we can surmise that most soybean-allergic individuals do not react adversely to the ingestion of soybean lecithin.
Others. Lecithin belongs to a class of lipids (fats) known as phospholipids, because they contain phosphorus. Lecithin also contains choline, which can be used to make a brain chemical, acetylcholine, used to transmit information between some nerve cells, and also between nerve and muscle. These same fatty acids can be obtained from lipids other than lecithin. Lecithin is not an essential dietary item as the body can produce enough of its own. It is a component of bile, produced by the liver, which is used to aid the digestion of fat.