A neuromuscular junction (sometimes called a myoneural junction) is a junction between nerve and muscle; it is a chemical synapse formed by the contact between the presynaptic terminal of a motor neuron and the postsynaptic membrane of a muscle fiber. The neuromuscular junction is the site of the signal exchange. The steps of this process in vertebrates occur as follows:(`) The action potential reaches the axon terminal. (2) Voltage-dependent calcium gates open, allowing calcium to enter
The junction between a motor neruon's axon and the muscle cell membrane is called a neuromuscular junction or a myoneural junction? 
Each neuromuscular junction consists of the axon terminal of a motor neuron and the motor end plate of a muscle fibre. : 1  The long processes of neurones are called axons. : 2  The part of the sarcolemma of the muscle cell that is in closest proximity to the synaptic end bulb is called the  motor end plate . 1 : The long processes of neurones are called axons. 2  As the axon of a motor neurone enters the structure of skeletal muscle it forms many branches called  axon terminals 3  . There is a bulbous swelling called a  synaptic end bulb  at the extreme/end of each axon terminal.
The Synapse and the Neuromuscular Junction. 1  Each terminal button joins to either another neuron, a gland cell, or a muscle cell. 2  The connection to another neuron, which takes place at a dendrite or on the soma, is termed a synapse. 1 Signals are conducted by the axon from the cell body to the terminal buttons. 2  Signals are transmitted from the terminal buttons to the receiving cell across a synapse (if the receiving cell is a neuron) or a neuromuscular junction (if the receiving cell is a muscle cell).
The junction between two nerve cells (neurons) is called a synapse. Between the two cells is a gap, visible using electron microscopy. When an impulse reaches the end … of the presynaptic neuron, this cell releases by exocytosis packets of neurotransmitter (e.g. acetylcholine). 
17. Acetylcholine. Within the axon terminal are many small vesicles containing a neurotransmitter substance called ____. 18. Nerve impulse. When the ______ reaches the ends of the axon, the neurotransmitter is released and diffuses to to the muscle cell membrane to combine with receptors there. 19
The development of the neuromuscular junction requires signaling from both the motor neuron's terminal and the muscle cell's central region. During development, muscle cells produce acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) and express them in the central regions in a process called prepatterning. The neuromuscular junction is the site of the signal exchange. The steps of this process in vertebrates occur as follows:(`) The action potential reaches the axon terminal. (2) Voltage-dependent calcium gates open, allowing calcium to enter
Difference between synapse and neuromuscular junction: Synapses and neuromuscular junctions are physiologically the same, however, the neuromuscular junction is a specific type of synapse that occurs between motor neuron and muscle fiber. At other places in the body, such as the Central Nervous System, the structure with similar role is known as synapse. Synaptic cleft is the space between the motor end plate (muscle fiber part) and synaptic end bulb (motor neuron part) of the neuromuscular junction. It is 20 to 30 nanometers wide. Because of this cleft, the connection between the motor neuron and the muscle fiber is not continuous and there is a break.
Neuromuscular junction can be defined as a synapse the motor neuron and the muscle fiber. Actually the synapse occurs between the “synaptic end bulbs” of the motor neuron and “motor end plate ” of muscle fiber. The motor end plate is in fact the highly excitable region of muscle fiber plasma membrane and it is responsible for initiating action potentials across the muscle surface. Synaptic cleft is the space between the motor end plate (muscle fiber part) and synaptic end bulb (motor neuron part) of the neuromuscular junction. It is 20 to 30 nanometers wide. Because of this cleft, the connection between the motor neuron and the muscle fiber is not continuous and there is a break.