Baloo is a main fictional character featured in Rudyard Kipling 's The Jungle Book from 1894 and The Second Jungle Book from 1895. Baloo, a bear, and Bagheera, a panther, save Mowgli from Shere Khan the tiger, and endeavor to teach Mowgli the Law of the Jungle in many of the stories of the Jungle Book. In the 1994 Disney live-action film The Jungle Book, Baloo, like all the other animals featured, does not speak. He first meets Mowgli as a cub when Mowgli finds him trapped inside a broken log. Mowgli frees him and they become fast friends.
Disney's Baloo is arguably the most popular character in the filmed version of The Jungle Book. He was made famous by the song . The Bare Necessities , sung by Phil Harris, in which he tells Mowgli how, if you know the tricks, you can live off the land and still have a life of leisure. In the 1994 Disney live-action film The Jungle Book, Baloo, like all the other animals featured, does not speak. He first meets Mowgli as a cub when Mowgli finds him trapped inside a broken log. Mowgli frees him and they become fast friends.
The Jungle Book is a 1967 American animated film produced by Walt Disney Productions. Inspired by Rudyard Kipling 's book of the same name, it is the 19th animated feature in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. Between 1996 and 1998, the TV series Jungle Cubs told the stories of Baloo, Hahti, Bagheera, Louie, Kaa, and Shere Khan when they were children. Disney later made a live-action remake of the film, which was more of a realistic action-adventure film with somewhat-more adult themes.
1 In the original book by Rudyard Kipling, Baloo was more of a serious character, as he was very strict with Mowgli and didn't tolerate negligence, and he was more of a regular brown bear than a gray sloth bear. 2  Walt Disney was used as a reference for the dance moves seen when Baloo is introduced in The Jungle Book. 1 Bill Murray, who will voice Baloo in the upcoming 2016 film, is the younger brother of Brian Doyle-Murray, who also voiced Baloo in The Jungle Book: Mowgli's Story. 2  In short, both Murray brothers had voiced Baloo in two different live-action Jungle Book projects.
[Jungle Book 1- Baloo meets Mowgli ]. [ Jungle Book 2- baloo meets Lucky the volt [ specabbls bears ]. he a dad of letter o a m. In an unproduced how called B-Players about supporting characters from Disney movies, Baloo was intended to appear as one of the better-off veterans of Disney films. Baloo taught the cubs of the Seeonee wolf pack the Law of the Jungle. His most challenging pupil was the man-cub Mowgli; despite Bagheera 's objections he sometimes found it necessary to use corporal punishment against Mowgli, although when called upon to defend the man-cub against the Bandar-log he did not hesitate.
Baloo is the deuteragonist of the 1967 Disney animated feature film, The Jungle Book and its 2003 sequel, and the protagonist of the 1990 - 92 TV series, TaleSpin. He is a sloth bear and best friends with Mowgli. He was voiced by the late Phil Harris in the original film. 1 Bill Murray, who will voice Baloo in the upcoming 2016 film, is the younger brother of Brian Doyle-Murray, who also voiced Baloo in The Jungle Book: Mowgli's Story. 2  In short, both Murray brothers had voiced Baloo in two different live-action Jungle Book projects.
In Disney productions Edit. The Disney version of Baloo. A character named Baloo, based on Kipling's creation, has also appeared in various Disney productions, starting with that company's feature-length version of The Jungle Book. Baloo taught the cubs of the Seeonee wolf pack the Law of the Jungle. His most challenging pupil was the man-cub Mowgli; despite Bagheera 's objections he sometimes found it necessary to use corporal punishment against Mowgli, although when called upon to defend the man-cub against the Bandar-log he did not hesitate.
1 Baloo bears a striking resemblance to Little John from Disney's Robin Hood, who were both voiced by Phil Harris, who also gave the voice of Thomas O'Malley from Disney's The Aristocats. 2  Baloo and Little John perform the same dance moves with King Louie in Jungle Book and with Lady Kluck in Robin Hood. 1 Bill Murray, who will voice Baloo in the upcoming 2016 film, is the younger brother of Brian Doyle-Murray, who also voiced Baloo in The Jungle Book: Mowgli's Story. 2  In short, both Murray brothers had voiced Baloo in two different live-action Jungle Book projects.