The salutation is the greeting, or beginning, of a letter. It usually is Dear (insert person's name here),. Formal letters usually begin with Dear Sir or Madam:. For frien … ds, it is appropriate to write Hi ____! :)  no its not its the ending. 7 people found this useful. 
An antonym of a particular word is one that has the opposite meaning. An antonym is usually an adjective or adverb, but can include verb forms such as coming / going, leadi … ng/ following, and heeding / ignoring. Example: The antonym of up is down. An antonym is a word that means the opposite of a pair of words... Some examples would be :- male & female, long & short, lead & follow. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  8 Tips to Improve Your Sun Salutation Pose in Yoga Sun salutations are sequences of yoga poses.
While goodbye at the end of a formal or semi formal letter is not generally used to close the letter. Since the most common form of closure is Sincerely it may not fit with the style of your intended letter. You may use other options such as: Genuinely, Truthfully, Earnestly, Best Regards, Respectfully, Cordially, and Best Wishes. I'm looking for the term for the closing of a letter. Add your answer. Source.
Report Abuse. Most people deal with this question by calling both the greeting and the response a salutation.. This is grammatically sound if it s a matter of one person saying something like: Hello! I'm looking for the term for the closing of a letter. Add your answer. Source.
The salutation Dear in combination with a name or a title is by far the most commonly used salutation in both British and US English, in both formal and informal correspondence. It is commonly followed either by an honorific and a surname, such as Dear Mr. Smith, or by a given name, such as Dear Mark. The most common form of salutation in a letter is Dear followed by the recipient's given name or title. For each style of salutation there is an accompanying style of complementary close, known as valediction. Examples of non-written salutations are bowing (common in Japan) or even addressing somebody by their name.
1. I would suggest they come in word pairs, i.e. salutation-valediction and opening-closing. When using one of the terms in a word pair it would be proper form to also use the other (although proper form is often not called for, of course). – Bjorn Dec 15 '11 at 18:07. I liked that image selection, of the letter diagram! Very nice find
A salutation is a greeting used in a letter or other written or non-written communication. Salutations can be formal or informal. The most common form of salutation in a letter is Dear followed by the recipient's given name or title. For each style of salutation there is an accompanying style of complementary close, known as valediction. Examples of non-written salutations are bowing (common in Japan) or even addressing somebody by their name.
Anotonyms for salutation (meaning greeting) would be dismissal or farewell. Antonyms for salutation (meaning praise) are disapproval, demerit, calumny, condemnation, or criticism. We say hello with a salutation; we say goodbye with a valediction. This is also the term for the polite closing in a letter. An antonym is a word that means the opposite of a pair of words... Some examples would be :- male & female, long & short, lead & follow. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  8 Tips to Improve Your Sun Salutation Pose in Yoga Sun salutations are sequences of yoga poses.
A Moon Salutation, Lunar Flow, or Chandra Namaskar, is basically the opposite of a Sun Salutation. Where the Sun Salutation brings heat and energy into the body, the Moon Salutation brings calm and relaxation. 
Full Definition of SALUTATION. 1. a: an expression of greeting, goodwill, or courtesy by word, gesture, or ceremony b plural: regards. 2. : the word or phrase of greeting (as Gentlemen or Dear Sir or Madam) that conventionally comes immediately before the body of a letter. — sal·u·ta·tion·al \-shnəl, -shə-nəl\ adjective. See salutation defined for English-language learners. Definition of SALUTATION for Kids. 1. : an act or action of greeting. 2. : a word or phrase used as a greeting at the beginning