Best Answer: Human hair seems to grow at a pretty consistent rate of about half a millimeter or so per day, or about half an inch every month (this study quotes a specific rate of 0.44 mm per day). What this means is that the maximum growth rate for hair is about 6 inches (15 cm) per year. If you have short hair and are thinking, It sure would be nice if I had hair down to my waist, then you are going to have about a four-year wait! Source(s):
How Fast Does Hair Grow? Q: How fast does hair grow? A: The speed of hair growth is roughly 1.25 centimeters or 0.5 inches per month, being about 15 centimeters or 6 inches per year. With age the speed of hairgrowth might slow down to as little as 0.25 cm or 0.1 inch a month. Cell division is responsible for the hair growth cycle.
1 Normal hair grows anywhere from 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) - 5⁄8 inch (1.6 cm) per month. 2  Most stylists recommend getting a hair cut every 6-10 weeks, meaning that if you cut off 1/4 - 1/2 inch (about 1/2 - 1 cm), your hair should still grow longer. Depending on how oily your hair is, shampoo and condition your hair only about 3-4 times per week. You don't need to shampoo and condition every day, as this will suck out the natural oils present in your hair.
On an average hair grows about ½ inch of every month to 6-7 inches a year approximately, which is again dependent on many factors. Such as the right kind of diet followed by a healthy workout routine helps in the growth. How long does one need to follow a diet for the growth of hair? 
On average, hair grows ½ inch per month and 6 inches per year. Normally men’s hair grows at a slightly faster rate than women’s at 6-7 inches per year. Hair grows faster in the summer than in the winter because hair growth requires a warm temperature. No other mumbo jumbo methods can improve hair growth
Yes, hair grows an inch a month, that's 1/4 of an inch (roughly) a week! ____________ For most people its 1/2 inch per month. and some say no it can't grow more then an inc … h per month. Well in 4 months my hair has grown over 5 inches! + 21 others found this useful. Genevieve Flowers-Boucher. 
You know it! But hair only grows, on average, about a half inch a month, so it could take a while to get the lengthy tresses you desire. This guide should help speed up the process a little bit, including pretty much everything to make your hair grow faster, short of splurging on some costly hair growth shampoo. Depending on how oily your hair is, shampoo and condition your hair only about 3-4 times per week. You don't need to shampoo and condition every day, as this will suck out the natural oils present in your hair.
General Considerations. Hair grows approximately ½ inch per month, for a total of six inches in one year. This rate is an average across races. Asian hair grows slightly faster than this average, Caucasian hair grows near the average,and black hair trends to grow at or just below this average each month. 
I work in a hairdressers and it grows about 4-5 cm a month on average. Massaging your head in general helps stimulate hair growth and as olive oil and egg yolk are good for the condition I'm sure it would help. By the way, depending on your genes, hair can grow from 1/4 inch to 1 inch a month. Hope this helps. Source(s): Cosmetologist, 6 years experience. (Expert in Corrective Color, Creative Color, Creative Cut and Style).
Because, your hair grows a half an inch every month, so by cutting an inch to half an inch off every month, your hair basically will never grow. But, before you start trying to grow out your long locks, make sure your hair is healthy and not damaged. 