Prokaryotic cells are generally much smaller than eukaryotic cells. Identify a structural difference between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells that is directly related to their difference in size. Based on the structural difference, explain why prokaryotic cells can be much smaller than eukaryotic cells.
Eukaryotic cells are typically much larger than those of prokaryotes. They have a variety of internal membrane-bound structures, called organelles, and a cytoskeleton composed of microtubules, microfilaments, and intermediate filaments, which play an important role in defining the cell's organization and shape. Eukaryotes belong to the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota. The defining feature that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells (Bacteria and Archaea) is that they have membrane-bound organelles, especially the nucleus, which contains the genetic material, and is enclosed by the nuclear envelope.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A) ability to store hereditary information-DNA. The genetic material contained in one or more chromosomes is located in a non-membrane bound nucleoid region in prokaryotes and a membrane bound nucleus in eukaryotes. Source(s): Jacy · 3 years ago.
All cells, whether they are prokaryotic or eukaryotic, have some common features. The common features of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: 1  DNA, the genetic material contained in one or more chromosomes and located in a nonmembrane bound nucleoid region in prokaryotes and a membrane-bound nucleus in eukaryotes.
These two groups are the prokaryotes and the eukaryotes. Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. Genetic material in eukaryotes is contained within a nucleus within the cell and DNA is organized into chromosomes. Eukaryotic organisms may be multicellular or single-celled organisms. All animals are eukaryotes. Other eukaryotes include plants, fungi, and protists.
1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells. The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA
Prokaryotes. Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. This means the genetic material DNA in prokaryotes is not bound within a nucleus. Additionally, the DNA is less structured in prokaryotes than in eukaryotes. Genetic material in eukaryotes is contained within a nucleus within the cell and DNA is organized into chromosomes. Eukaryotic organisms may be multicellular or single-celled organisms. All animals are eukaryotes. Other eukaryotes include plants, fungi, and protists.
Best Answer: Prokaryotes 1. No nucleus 2. Lack all other organelles (except for cell walls & ribosomes) 3. Cell walls are made of peptidoglycan 4. Contains one circular strand of DNA 5. Smaller in size Eukaryotes 1. Presence of membrane-bound organelles 2. Presence of nucleus 3. Cell walls made of cellulose 4. Contains one or more paired, linear chromosomes 5.
Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes have ribosomes. Ribosomes are not a membrane-bound organelle, but in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, they are used for translation of RNA into proteins. Eukaryotes and prokaryotes can both perform transport, DNA replication, transcription, translation, and movement. Let's summarize the similarities and differences between prokaryotes and eukaryotes _. Both organisms are composed of cells, the basic unit of life, with each cell surrounded by a cell membrane. The biggest difference between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is that eukaryotes have a nucleus.