Government. Finland is governed under the constitution of 2000. The president, who is the head of state, is elected by popular vote to a six-year term and is eligible for a second term. The new constitution reduced the powers of the president, who previously was responsible for foreign affairs. 
Finland is a republic with a representative democracy governed accordingly to the principles of parliamentarism. Legislative power is vested in the Parliament of Finland (Finnish: Eduskunta, Swedish: Riksdagen). Executive power is exercised by the Cabinet, officially termed Council of State (Finnish: Valtioneuvosto, Swedish: Statsradet), statsrådet which is led by The Prime, minister The head Of. government Some matters are decided by the President of Finland, the Head of State, in plenary meetings with the Council of State, echoing the constitutional history of a privy council.
Legislative power is vested in the Parliament of Finland, and the government has limited rights to amend or extend legislation. The president has the power of veto over parliamentary decisions although it can be overrun by the parliament. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. The constitution of Finland and its place in the judicial system are unusual in that there is no constitutional court and the supreme court does not have an explicit right to declare a law unconstitutional.
Finland elects on national level a head of state —the president —and a legislature. The president is elected for a six-year term by the people. The Parliament (Finnish: eduskunta, Swedish: riksdag) has 200 members, elected for a four-year term by proportional representation in multi-seat constituencies. The constitution of Finland and its place in the judicial system are unusual in that there is no constitutional court and the supreme court does not have an explicit right to declare a law unconstitutional.
Finland has a parliamentary system, even if the President of Finland is formally responsible for foreign policy. Most executive power lies in the cabinet (the Finnish Government) headed by the prime minister. The constitution of Finland and its place in the judicial system are unusual in that there is no constitutional court and the supreme court does not have an explicit right to declare a law unconstitutional.
Best Answer: Finland is a parliamentary democracy. Its legislature drafts the laws, and the laws are executed by a bureacracy headed by the prime minister and his/her cabinet, who in turn is responsible to the legislature. This system is common through most of Western Europe (except France, which is semi-presidential). 
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Warriorcatsrock. Confidence votes 27. Semi-presidential Republic. Finland is pretty much has a republic government some matters are decided by the president of Finland but not all of them. A Federalist government is largely led by an elite group of political professionals; although nominally responsible to the states and voters that they represent, in reality they form a distinct ruling class. The form of government in the U.S.A. has been an issue of argument ever since the signing of the Constitution.
Politics of Finland takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic and of a multi-party system. The constitution of Finland and its place in the judicial system are unusual in that there is no constitutional court and the supreme court does not have an explicit right to declare a law unconstitutional.
The U.S. government is a Federalist Republic government, a very strong central government derived from a federation of individual states that have yielded a great deal of thei … r power to the central government. A Federalist government is largely led by an elite group of political professionals; although nominally responsible to the states and voters that they represent, in reality they form a distinct ruling class. The form of government in the U.S.A. has been an issue of argument ever since the signing of the Constitution.
Today, Finland is a parliamentary democracy based on competition among political parties, power being divided among the highest organs of government. It does not in every respect fit into categories of parliamentarism constructed by political scientists. 