A river delta is low-lying plain or landform that occurs at the mouth of a river near where the river flows into the ocean or other body of water. Deltas are important to both human activities and fish and other wildlife because they are normally home to very fertile soil as well as a large amount of vegetation. The subaqueous delta is the portion of the delta that is closest to the sea or body of water into which the river flows. This area is usually past the shoreline and it is below water level. The lower delta plain is the middle of the delta.
Deltas. When a river reaches a lake or the sea the water slows down and loses the power to carry sediment. The sediment is dropped at the mouth of the river. Some rivers drop so much sediment that waves and tides can't carry it all away. It builds up in layers forming a delta. 
: the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet. : a piece of land shaped like a triangle that is formed when a river splits into smaller rivers before it flows into an ocean. : an area of low land along the Mississippi River that is mainly in the state of Mississippi
A river delta is a landform that forms from deposition of sediment carried by a river as the flow leaves its mouth and enters slower-moving or standing water. This occurs where a river enters an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, reservoir, or (more rarely) another river that cannot transport away the supplied sediment. Despite a popular legend, this use of the word delta was not coined by Herodotus. This alluvium builds up to form the river delta. When the flow enters the standing water, it is no longer confined to its channel and expands in width. This flow expansion results in a decrease in the flow velocity, which diminishes the ability of the flow to transport sediment.
River delta. A river delta is a landform that is formed at the mouth of a river, where the river flows into an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, or reservoir. Deltas are formed from the deposition of the sediment carried by the river as the flow leaves the mouth of the river. 
A river delta is a section of a river that separates into channels as it enters another body of water. The delta includes the land between channels and the marshlands and other wetlands formed in the area. The Okavango Delta in Botswana is an exception, because it does not enter another body of water. 
An example of delta being used is the use of the capital delta symbol (δ) in math equations to show a change of any quantity. For example: δ = b² - 4ac. The definition of a delta is a triangle-shaped deposit of sand, clay or silt at the mouth of a river. An example of a delta is where the Nile River drains into the Mediterranean Sea. 