Tianeptine and Coaxil are other names for Stablon. Stablon differs from most antidepressants in that it is not primarily metabolised by the hepatic cytochrome P450 system, indicating less likelihood of drug-drug interactions; this is of particular interest for elderly patients.
Stablon is the brand name of the drug Tianeptine, which is proving to be a first line antidepressant. Stablon is a drug that actively fights depression by increasing the brain's uptake of serotonin. This anti-depressant is particularly effective as it does not normally cause drowsiness or interfere with the libido.
Also tianeptine in Stablon tablets 12.5mg is thought to influence other neurotransmitter pathways that may affect mood, such as transmission of glutamate, which is the major excitatory neurotransmitter and is also involved in neurone plasticity.
Stablon is one of the trade names for a drug called Tianeptine that has nootropic tendencies. This product is used for treating major depressive episodes and social anxiety, but users have also noticed that it produces certain cognitive enhancement effects.
Also tianeptine in Stablon tablets 12.5mg is thought to influence other neurotransmitter pathways that may influence mood, such as transmission of glutamate, which is the major excitatory neurotransmitter and is also involved in neurone plasticity.
Stablon tablets 12.5mg contain tianeptine, an antidepressant belonging to the class of drugs known as selective serotonin reuptake enhancers (SSRE) that is used to treat major depression to reduce major depressive episodes ranging from mild to severe.
Stablon, also known as tianeptine is an antidepressant drug that achieves the same results as well known antidepressant medications such as Paxil and Prozac but which works in a novel way that does not cause the usual loss of libido, drowsiness and weight gain side effects associated with these products.
Loading ... Tianeptine is a drug used for treating depression, sold under the brand names Stablon, Coaxil and Tatinol. It is viewed as one of the most effective treatments for major depressive episodes that range from mild to severe.
Side effects. Side effects when taking Stablon (Tianeptine)are rare and usually mild when they do occur. It is still important, however, that all side effects are report to your physician promptly.
A novel serotonin enhancer! Stablon or Tianeptine is a drug used as an anti-depressant, in the same sort of way that Prozac or Paxil is, in that it can improve the availability of the calming neurotransmitter-serotonin.