We've known for a while that curcumin and boswellia are powerful anti-inflammatories and have potent anti-cancer properties, says study author Ajay Goel, Director of Epigenetics, Cancer Prevention, and Geonomics at Baylor.
Both Boswellia and Curcumin have anti-inflammatory properties which inflammatory chemicals produced by immune cells. Boswellia with Curcumin in Cancer has been recommended as the best herbal supplement and with no known side effects.
Boswellia with Curcumin demonstrates excellent anti-cancer properties. The main ingredients in both these herbal supplements have an anti-inflammatory effect, including antitumor and ant proliferative properties against tumor cells. Boswellia has been traditionally used as anti-arthritic and anti-cancer supplement.
Curcumin is a term that is sometimes used to refer to any or all of the curcuminoid compounds in turmeric. There are 3 main curcuminoids in turmeric, of which curcumin (diferuloylmethane) is the best studied. Other curcuminoids in turmeric include demethoxycurcumin and bisdemethoxycurcumin. Curcumin imparts yellow color to the plant and is a powerful anti-inflammatory agent. Many mechanisms of anti-inflammatory activity have been identified for curcumin.
Boswellia and Curcumin are two potent anti-inflammatory agents that help in alleviating arthritis related joint pain. Morpheme Boswellia and Curcumin is a unique Ayurvedic product that has combined these anti-inflammatory ingredients.
Curcumin may represent a more effective and safer modality for pain management. Boswellia also exhibits significant anti-inflammatory properties and treats pain without side-effects. In one study, boswellia reduced the pain index by 90 percent, with a dramatic increase in function. Asthmatics showed improvement in symptoms and lung function, and reduced allergic blood cells.
Turmeric is used to flavor traditional Indian dishes. Its active component is curcumin, a potent anti-inflammatory that gives the spice its bright yellow color. In the Baylor study, researchers used a combination of curcumin and boswellia.