Maplin store in Stoke on Trent using the previous logo. Maplin Electronics is a retailer of electronic goods in the UK and Ireland. As of July 2013, there are 210 Maplin Electronics stores. The company operates an extensive online, telephone, and mail-order sales service. The kits were a perfect vehicle to sell Maplin's components and the articles in Electronics published full circuit diagrams, parts lists and technical articles with full instructions for building and setting up the projects.
Yes, Maplin does offer home heating and cooling products. They have heating and cooling items for inside and out. You will find patio heating systems, as well as indoor heating units, space heaters, and panel heaters. Yes. Maplin does offer printers and scanners. They have a variety of printers to choose from. They offer laser printers, inkjet printers, and 3D printers. They also have desktop scanners, business card scanners, and mobile scanners. Additionally they offer ink and toner, labels and paper.
Comments. Maplin, the UK’s largest specialist electronics retailer, is up for sale with a £400m to £500m price tag following a series of approaches to the business’s owner, Montagu Private Equity. Montagu, which has owned Maplin since 2004, has appointed PwC to lead the sales process. The approaches are understood to have come from trade buyers, with a sale to a larger player in the sector or a rival private equity firm thought most likely. Approaches are understood to have come from trade buyers, with a sale to a larger player in the sector or a rival private equity firm thought most likel
Comments. Maplin, the UK’s largest specialist electronics retailer, has changed private equity owners in an £85m deal. Montagu, which has owned Maplin since 2004, hired PwC to lead a sale process in March after approaches from interested parties. 
Montagu bought Maplin in September 2004 from previous buyout firm Graphite Capital and management. It is the UK's biggest specialist consumer electronics retailer, with high street and out-of-town stores, a mail order catalogue and online presence. Montagu, whose past investments include hair products business ghd and Quorn, is believed to have previously tried to sell Maplin in 2011, but pulled out after talks with prospective buyers failed over price. Montagu declined to comment on the sale reports.
comments. High street electronics retailer Maplin could be about to change hands, with the chain having been put up for sale with a price tag of up to £200million. Montagu, whose past investments include hair products business ghd and Quorn, is believed to have previously tried to sell Maplin in 2011, but pulled out after talks with prospective buyers failed over price. Montagu declined to comment on the sale reports.
Yes, Maplin does offer office equipment. They have a variety of office items to choose from. You will find speaker and projector mounts, desks and accessories, laminators, projectors, shredders, telephone headsets, and labeling machines. They also offer accessories like labels, calculators, and copy holders. Yes. Maplin does offer printers and scanners. They have a variety of printers to choose from. They offer laser printers, inkjet printers, and 3D printers. They also have desktop scanners, business card scanners, and mobile scanners. Additionally they offer ink and toner, labels and paper.