Spectacular caves. in northwest Georgia include Ellison's Cave, Pettijohn's Cave, and Byers Cave. With a depth or vertical extent of 1,063 feet and a length of 64,030 feet (almost twelve miles), Ellison's Cave in Walker County is the twelfth deepest and fifty-second longest cave in the United States.
cave. n. 1. (Physical Geography) an underground hollow with access from the ground surface or from the sea, often found in limestone areas and on rocky coastlines. 2. (Historical Terms) history Brit a secession or a group seceding from a political party on some issue. cave. n. 1. A hollow or natural passage under or into the earth, especially one with an opening to the surface. 2. A storage cellar, especially for wine.
1 If the cave is formed in a headland, it may eventually break through to the other side forming an arch. 2  The arch will gradually become bigger until it can no longer support the top of the arch. 3  When the arch collapses, it leaves the headland on one side and a stack (a tall column of rock) on the other. ] and erosion erosion: Erosion is the process whereby rock or soil is worn away by the action of the wind, waves or water. can create caves, arches, stacks and stumps along a headland. Old Harry Rocks, Swanage, Dorset.
A cave or cavern is a hollow place in the ground, especially a natural underground space large enough for a human to enter. Caves form naturally by the weathering of rock and often extend deep underground. The word cave can also refer to much smaller openings such as sea caves, rock shelters, and grottos. Speleology is the science of exploration and study of all aspects of caves and the cave environment. Visiting or exploring caves for recreation may be called caving, potholing, or spelunking. 1 The cave system with the greatest total length of surveyed passage is Mammoth Cave in Kentucky, USA, at 643 km (400 mi). 2  This record is unlikely to be surpassed in the near future, as the next most extensive known cave is Jewel Cave near Custer, South Dakota, USA, at 267 km (166 mi).
Welcome to the web page of the National Speleological Society's (NSS) Section of Cave Geology and Geography. The Section is the oldest in the NSS, and since 1968 has generally functioned as a forum for the exchange of cave geoscience information and the interaction of karst geoscientists. 
sea cave. (geology). A split or hollow opening, usually at sea level, in the base of a sea cliff, formed by waves acting on weak parts of the weathered rock. Also known as marine cave; sea chasm. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
cavern. n. 1. (Physical Geography) a cave, esp when large and formed by underground water, or a large chamber in a cave. vb (tr). cavern-a large cave or a large chamber in a cave. cave-a geological formation consisting of an underground enclosure with access from the surface of the ground or from the sea.
A cave or cavern is a natural underground space large enough for a human to enter. Caves form naturally by the weathering of rock and they often extend deep underground. Because of their uniqueness and beauty, some caves have become very interesting places for tourists and photographers worldwide. Devetashka cave is one of the biggest caves in Bulgaria but it is most famous for its amazing history. It is also currently home to nearly 30,000 bats. Devetashka cave is located 18 km (11mi) northeast of Lovech and 2 kilometers (1.2mi) away from the village of Devetaki.
1 ] is the predominant process. 2  If the cave is formed in a headland, it may eventually break through to the other side forming an arch. 3  The arch will gradually become bigger until it can no longer support the top of the arch. ] and erosion erosion: Erosion is the process whereby rock or soil is worn away by the action of the wind, waves or water. can create caves, arches, stacks and stumps along a headland. Old Harry Rocks, Swanage, Dorset.
cave. A hollow or natural passage under the earth or in the side of a hill or mountain with an opening to the surface. Caves can form in many ways, but especially from the dissolving of limestone. a small group of politicians who break away from the main party; a splinter party. cave. n. 1. A hollow or natural passage under or into the earth, especially one with an opening to the surface. 2. A storage cellar, especially for wine.