In most cases, Canna Companion is not designed to be the sole treatment. It works best when given in conjunction with other treatments, and often allows reduction in medications that may have significant undesirable side effects. Hemp has no known negative interactions with other medications or supplements. Your cat will not get high from Canna Compainion because it focuses on the non-THC portions of the plant that seem to have the best benefit without giving animals the high that recreational users seek. The most common side effect is mild lethargy, which usually subsides in 3-4 days.
Dogs or cats would take Canna-Pet – which won’t get pets high – to help during treatment of arthritis, diabetes, digestive issues, chronic pain, cancer, and those receiving palliative care. Animal studies find CBD has antitumor effects, anti-inflammatory effects, stimulates and regulates appetite, and modulates pain. Canna-Pet is selling the product directly and says it’s completely legal, because they get their CBD from industrial hemp, the sale of which is also legal in the U.S.
As is all too common in such debates, however, scientific facts get muddled and lost in the tempest of opinion, personal experience, and arguments about values. My attention was drawn to the issue recently when I was asked to look at the web site for a related product, Canna-Pet: Medical Cannabis for Pets. While the behavioral risks do not apply to use in companion animals, and the medical issues associated with THC do not apply to products with negligible amounts of this compound, the risks of cannabis-derived compounds in dogs and cats are largely unknown.
Two veterinarians and an MIT-trained entrepreneur have launched what they say is the first legal, over-the-counter cannabis medicine for pets. Canna-Pet supplements are the product of seventeen years of research and development, including five years of clinical trials, according to a press release from Monday. Medical Marijuana For Pets. While Canna-Pet may not be considered “medical marijuana” under U.S. law, there’s no doubt about its similarity to cannabis products that contain THC. Interestingly, medical marijuana has recently caught the attention of veterinarians and pet owners as well.
…phytocannabinoids often allow for much lower dosing of drugs that have potential negative side effects. Canna-Pet™ augments other medications… We recommend Canna-Pet™ supplements as a daily food additive for all pets… 100% Safe. There are ZERO negative side effects and NO medical conflicts. Seventeen years in development, five years of clinical trials, now available OTC. While the behavioral risks do not apply to use in companion animals, and the medical issues associated with THC do not apply to products with negligible amounts of this compound, the risks of cannabis-derived compounds in dogs and cats are largely unknown.
Canna-Pet has only been selling to the public for about eight months and it's already shipping its products throughout the U.S. and 23 foreign countries. Dan Goldfarb, president of Canna-Pet, calls it an exploding market that will grow exponentially in the years ahead. There is no risk. Helping with pain and anxiety. Graves has recommended hemp-based supplements for other dogs experiencing anxiety or pain. She's also used Canna-Pet in conjunction with cancer treatments and to boost appetite in dogs that won't eat.
Since Canna Companion uses the whole plant, and hemp has a high fiber content, this may cause problems in sensitive cats. A lower dose usually resolves the fiber sensitivity issue. Rarely, vomiting or increased skin itchiness are seen, which would require discontinuing the use of cannabis-based products. Your cat will not get high from Canna Compainion because it focuses on the non-THC portions of the plant that seem to have the best benefit without giving animals the high that recreational users seek. The most common side effect is mild lethargy, which usually subsides in 3-4 days.
The company also says that Canna-Pet can be given over the long-term as an overall wellness supplement – reducing aggression, anxiety and obesity as well as prolonging life. Canna-Pet comes in a variety of sizes for different pets, ranging from cats and dogs to rabbits and guinea pigs. Medical Marijuana For Pets. While Canna-Pet may not be considered “medical marijuana” under U.S. law, there’s no doubt about its similarity to cannabis products that contain THC. Interestingly, medical marijuana has recently caught the attention of veterinarians and pet owners as well.
Two companies in the Seattle area, Canna-Pet and Canna Companion, are leading the charge into this new and uncharted field of hemp-based veterinary medicine. Dr. Sarah Brandon and Dr. Greg Copas, husband and wife veterinarians, launched Canna Companion in March. Helping with pain and anxiety. Graves has recommended hemp-based supplements for other dogs experiencing anxiety or pain. She's also used Canna-Pet in conjunction with cancer treatments and to boost appetite in dogs that won't eat.