How to use baclofen. Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually 3 times a day. To reduce your risk of side effects, your doctor may direct you to start this medication at a low dose and gradually increase your dose. Follow your doctor's instructions carefully. Baclofen is used to treat muscle spasms caused by certain conditions (such as multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury/disease). It works by helping to relax the muscles
baclofen (Noun). A particular drug used to control spasms. It is a derivative of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). It is primarily used to treat spasticity and is in the early stages of use for the treatment of alcoholism.
Baclofen also known as β-(4-chlorophenyl)-γ-aminobutyric acid (β-(4-chlorophenyl)-GABA) and sold under the brand name Lioresal among others is a central nervous system depressant used as a skeletal muscle relaxant. It is primarily used to treat spasticity. It is also used by compounding pharmacies in topical pain creams as a muscle relaxant. It is a GABA receptor agonist, specifically of the GABAB receptors. Its beneficial effects in spasticity result from actions at spinal and supraspinal sites.
Baclofen is a muscle relaxant used for treating spasm of skeletal muscles, muscle clonus, rigidity, and pain caused by multiple sclerosis. It is also injected into the spinal cord to treat severe spasticity, spinal cord injuries, and other spinal cord diseases. A generic version is available. 
Baclofen. Baclofen is a derivative of gamma-aminobutyric acid. It is primarily used to treat spasticity and is in the early research stages for use for the treatment of alcoholism. It is also used by compounding pharmacies in topical pain creams as a muscle relaxant. It is an agonist for the GABAB receptors. A particular drug used to control spasms. It is a derivative of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). It is primarily used to treat spasticity and is in the early stages of
PRESCRIBED FOR: Baclofen is used for treating spasm of skeletal muscles, muscle clonus, rigidity, and pain caused by disorders such as multiple sclerosis. It is also injected into the spinal cord (intrathecal) for management of severe spasticity. SIDE EFFECTS: Common side effects of baclofen are: 1  drowsiness, 2  weakness, 3  dizziness, 4  headache, 5  seizures, 6  nausea, 7  vomiting, 8  low blood pressure, 9  constipation, 10  confusion, 11  respiratory depression, 12  inability to sleep, 13  and increased urinary frequency or urinary retention.