Think of this as the Declaration of Independence for your church. 1  To form a religious organization, you need to also establish a series of bylaws by which you'll govern your organization. 2  Sample outlines of bylaws are available that you can use and modify for your purposes. 5. Include a time of fellowship and get to know your members. A church without a community is just a building. People will continue to come if they feel welcome and cared for, and you want to make sure that your church is a place people feel free to worship and come together.
HOW TO START A HOME CHURCH POCKETSERMONS.org Many churches these days who call themselves Christian have taken a major detour away from the Bible. Some are heavily entrenched in traditions that are in conflict with Biblical teachings. 
The really good news is that, to start a house church, you can lay down the burdens of planning how to cope with buildings, programs, and outreach strategies. You don't have to be an impressive leader (though you probably will have some leadership gifts). To start a house church, you simply need to open your home to friends and neighbors and take things one step at a time.
Instructions. Pray. According to SmallGroups.com, prayer is the first step to starting a house church.. It's not enough to start a house church simply because it seems to be a good idea; it must also be God's idea. Praying gives you a chance to determine if starting a house church is the right thing to do and something to which you're ready to devote time and effort. Figure out your target worshiper. To keep a house church at a manageable size keep a particular type of member in mind. For example, target worshipers could be business owners, new believers or young adults. Also, figure out the layout of the services: time for music, fellowship, the Bible lesson and study, and so on. Schedule meeting times. Gene Edwards, author of How to Start a House Church from Scratch, recommends house church groups gather at least once a week.
The first step to starting a house church is to pray. House-church ministry must be birthed in prayer. Though it is a simple step, without prayer and God's leading, we invite trouble. You don't have to be an impressive leader (though you probably will have some leadership gifts). To start a house church, you simply need to open your home to friends and neighbors and take things one step at a time.
Ask yourself the following questions: 1  What are your reasons for starting a church? 2  Will your new church be a full-time or part-time professional calling? 3  Is this a change to a more formal organization from an existing home-church scenario? 4  Will your church be active in fund-raising? 5  Will you be performing weddings, baptisms, funerals, or other ... If you are serious about starting your own church you need to purchase this book-it answers a lot of questions in a very concise and detailed manner that is also easy to follow.
1 Examine the reasons you want to start a new church. 2  If it is because you are upset with your old congregation, then your anger will affect your new church. 3  If you want this church to be different than an already established church, then you need come up with your own valid ideas on which you base your spirituality. 5. Include a time of fellowship and get to know your members. A church without a community is just a building. People will continue to come if they feel welcome and cared for, and you want to make sure that your church is a place people feel free to worship and come together.
The same is true for a new church start. If, for instance, you want to launch large in a large city, then that decision determines your cost will be high. The three choices for a church planter are church launch size, city, and cost. You get to choose two, and the third will be determined by the choices. 
How to Start a Church. Showing you how to start a church is our passion. Whether you use our step-by-step resources and software, or we do the work, our way of starting churches and ministries takes the vision that God has given you and makes it a reality. It has never been easier to start your church! Become one of 1000's of churches that use the StartRIGHT™ Program to get started. In just 30 days you will receive everything you need to: 1  Become Incorporated. 2  Open a Church Bank Account. 3  Have Customized, Ironclad Bylaws. 4  Establish and Protect Your Board