The average expected wage and annual salary for a sterile processing technician in the United States is around $19.57 per hour and $40,710 per annum. An average starting hourly wage for a sterile processing technician in the United States ranges from between $9.88 – $18.26 per hour which gradually increases by $1.98 – $27.96 overtime.
Sterile processing technician salary and wage in USA. An average starting hourly wage for a sterile processing technician in the United States ranges from between $9.88 – $18.26 per hour which gradually increases by $1.98 – $27.96 overtime. An average annual salary bonus of around $995 will be included and the total annual salary ranges from between $20,845 – $39,931
According to the BLS salary reports, the median salary for a sterile processing technician is around $40,950 per annum. The annual salary for the top 10 percent sterile processing technicians is more than $59,150, while the lowest 10% of them earned less than $28,860 per year. An average starting hourly wage for a sterile processing technician in the United States ranges from between $9.88 – $18.26 per hour which gradually increases by $1.98 – $27.96 overtime.
Sterile Processing Technician Salary. (United States). The average Sterile Processing Technician in the United States can expect to rake in roughly $13.86 per hour. Pay ranges from $10.09 per hour on the low end to $19.16 on the high end. Location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by career length and the particular employer. Those in the early stages of their career can expect to make around $28K; however, individuals with five to 10 years of experience bring in $31K on average — a distinctly larger sum. Sterile Processing Technicians bring in $34K after working for 10 to 20 years.
How does location influence a Sterile Processing Technician's salary? Finally, the Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution's 2008 Salary Survey found that salary and wage expectations could differ depending on the regional location within the US that a Sterile Processing Technician is employed in. 3. After completing a minimum of 80 hours of training through a CBSPD, Inc. certified program; or 400 hours through a IAHCSMM accredited program; you may take and pass the Certification for Healthcare Sterile Processing and Distribution Technician examination in your school's recommended testing center.
Top 10 facts about the world. A central sterile processing technician is a medical professional who specializes in stocking, sterilizing, packaging, and preparing the tools and equipment that are used in surgical procedures. This technician frequently takes inventory of surgical tools and accessories and obtains additional supplies when necessary. 
$31,000. Average Central Sterile Processing Tech salaries for job postings in Nashville, TN are 6% lower than average Central Sterile Processing Tech salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Gain on-the-job experience. You can usually get this experience through jobs or official certification programs. 4. Earn certification through either the Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution (CBSPD) or the International Association of Healthcare Central Service Materiel Management (IAHCSMM). 1  Sterile Processing Technician Certification is required by law only in 2 states at the moment-New York and New Jersey. How to Become a Sterile Processing Technician. Sterile processing technicians are an integral but often overlooked part of medical teams. These technicians are responsible for inventorying, packaging and sterilizing medical instruments. This is a key part of controlling infection in the medical workplace.
For Sterile Processing Technicians, more experience in the field does not usually mean bigger paychecks. Those in the early stages of their career can expect to make around $28K; however, individuals with five to 10 years of experience bring in $31K on average — a distinctly larger sum. Sterile Processing Technicians bring in $34K after working for 10 to 20 years.
(United States). A Sterile Processing Technologist earns an average wage of $14.43 per hour. For the first five to ten years in this position, pay increases sharply, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. 