Individuals with Hereditary Hemochromatosis absorb too much iron. This can result in toxic levels of iron in tissues and major organs. A genetic disease, it can develop into other major diseases such as diabetes, heart trouble, arthritis, liver disease and neurological problems if not diagnosed and treated. Individuals with Hemochromatosis can now choose to help save lives by becoming volunteer blood donors at the same time they are undergoing treatment. It is very safe to transfuse these blood products to patients in need.
A donor with Hemochromatosis should plan to spend about an hour at the donor center. A health-care professional will ask the individual to fill out a registration form with medical history questions and check the donor s pulse, blood pressure and iron level. The actual donation will take about 30 minutes. Individuals with Hemochromatosis can now choose to help save lives by becoming volunteer blood donors at the same time they are undergoing treatment. It is very safe to transfuse these blood products to patients in need.
Since hemochromatosis patients have more iron in the body than regular people have, it is inevitable to perceive them as unhealthy and are ineligible of blood donation. But that is a misconception. Hemochromatosis is not a blood disease. The FDA has always allowed people diagnosed with this condition to give blood, provided that blood banks label such blood with the donor’s disorder and have a physician check up the donor at the time of the donation. Having too much iron in the body is not good for the health. Our body has no natural way of eliminating excess iron, it is stored in body tissue and organs, particularly in the heart, liver, pancreas, skin and joints. Without treatment, hemochromatosis leads to organ failure, or worse, death.
Health benefits of donating blood. Hemochromatosis. Health benefits of blood donation include reduced risk of hemochromatosis. Hemochromatosis is a health condition that arises due to excess absorption of iron by the body. This may be inherited or may be caused due to alcoholism, anemia or other disorders. Donating blood is good for health of donors as well as those who need it. It is important that blood donation takes place in hospital or clinic or blood bank presence of medical experts.
For patients with hemochromatosis, giving blood is lifesaving, and there’s a reasonable amount of evidence that blood donation might have some small health benefits for otherwise healthy people, especially men and postmenopausal women. 
The process is similar to donating blood; it can be done at blood donation centers, hospital donation centers, or a doctor's office. In the first stage of treatment, about 1 pint of blood is removed once or twice a week. After your iron levels return to normal, you may continue phlebotomy treatments. 
Iron levels. People with hemochromatosis have higher levels of iron in their blood. Transferrin saturation test (TS) . A type of iron study (blood test) that measures the percentage of transferrin and other mobile, iron-binding proteins saturated with iron. It is helpful in finding early hemochromatosis. 
That’s great news, isn’t it? Hemochromatosis patients can donate blood and they can help other patients who have blood disorder. Although hemochromatosis is a condition that can be fatal if not treated accordingly, their excessive iron supply in the body is what makes them to be someone’s hero. Having too much iron in the body is not good for the health. Our body has no natural way of eliminating excess iron, it is stored in body tissue and organs, particularly in the heart, liver, pancreas, skin and joints. Without treatment, hemochromatosis leads to organ failure, or worse, death.
Phlebotomy is a procedure that removes blood from the body. Regular phlebotomy treats people who have too much iron in their blood, such as with hemochromatosis, or who are producing too many red blood cells, such as with polycythemia. Removing blood regularly decreases iron levels in the body by reducing the number of iron-rich red blood cells. Health professionals perform phlebotomy in a medical clinic. The process is similar to donating blood. A health professional inserts a needle into a vein in your arm and removes about 500 mL (17 fl oz) of blood. The procedure takes about 30 minutes.
Hemochromatosis is the abnormal rate of iron metabolism in the blood. Normally, your body only absorbs 10% of the iron contained in the foods they eat. With hemochromatosis, your body absorbs up to 30% of iron and eventually, it absorbs and preserves between 5-20 times more iron than your body needs. Having too much iron in the body is not good for the health. Our body has no natural way of eliminating excess iron, it is stored in body tissue and organs, particularly in the heart, liver, pancreas, skin and joints. Without treatment, hemochromatosis leads to organ failure, or worse, death.