Believe it or not, glass is made from liquid sand. You can make glass by heating ordinary sand (which is mostly made of silicon dioxide) until it melts and turns into a liquid. You won't find that happening on your local beach: sand melts at the incredibly high temperature of 1700°C (3090°F).
Sand mostly.   glass is made from sand which they heat to make it transparent....... also right now the glass from anything in melting but so slowly that it will take about over 1 million years for it shrink considerably. sorry but i don't why is is made out of that.
Glass is a state of matter. It is a solid produced by cooling molten material so that the internal arrangement of atoms, or molecules, remains in a random or disordered state, similar to the arrangement in a liquid. Such a solid is said to be amorphous or glassy.
Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass, and bubbles (volcanic gases). As magma gets closer to the surface and cools, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When lava erupts it is made up of a slush of crystals, liquid, and bubbles. The liquid freezes to form volcanic glass. Chemically lava is made of the elements silicon, oxygen, aluminum, iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, and titanium (plus other elements in very small concentrations.
A stove top could be made of glass. The glass commonly used in cookware is called borosilicate. Borosilicate is made by the addition of the element boron. This treatment gives the glass a highly valuable quality, resistance to temperature fluctuation.
In the technical sense, glass is an inorganic product of fusion which has been cooled to a rigid condition without crystallizing. Many glasses contain silica as their main component and glass former. Pure silica (SiO2) has a glass melting point— at a viscosity of 10 Pa·s (100 P)— of over 2300 °C (4200 °F).
Once the sand is melted, it is either poured into molds to make bottles, glasses, and other containers, or floated (poured on top of a big vat of molten tin metal) to make perfectly flat sheets of glass for windows. Unusual glass containers are still sometimes made by blowing them.
Glass is made of silicon. The only mineral made up exclusively by silicon is quartz, which is also the main mineral in common sand. So the answer is quartz, but you're not wrong thinking sand, only sand is not a mineral.
Uranium glass has an unusual yellow-green color and glows in ultraviolet light. These glass pieces were made using waste uranium from the cleanup of the Fernald uranium processing plant near Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. Vitrification (turning a material into glass) is one way to dispose of nuclear waste safely.