1 1 cup honey called for in recipe:. 2  use. 3  1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/4 cup liquid (use liquid called for in recipe). 4  OR. 5  1 cup molasses. 6  OR. 7  1 cup light or dark corn syrup. 8  OR. 9  1 cup pure maple syrup. 10  servings is suggested only. 1 1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/4 cup liquid (use liquid called for in recipe). 2  OR. 3  1 cup molasses. 4  OR. 5  1 cup light or dark corn syrup. 6  OR. 7  1 cup pure maple syrup. 8  servings is suggested only.
3. Coconut Nectar. Surely you’ve heard of coconut sugar as a great substitute for refined white or brown sugar. But coconut nectar is also a great alternative to honey and can be used in 1:1 ratio. Coconut nectar naturally ranks low on the glycemic index chart, is mineral-rich, and a good plant source of various B vitamins. If you’re avoiding honey, you may find it difficult to find the right replacement — it can be tough to mimic that texture and taste. It can also be hard to avoid; honey is in more processed foods than you’d think, finding its way into baked goods, breads, pastries, cereals, crackers, and other foods you might enjoy.
- If you’re on a diet, you could substitute honey for sugar. However, don’t eat lots of honey, because it is high in calories-substitute honey for sugar only as part of your calorie controlled diet-i.e. a teaspoon of honey instead of sugar. You may also be interested to read about the vinegar and honey diet !
Directions. 1  1 cup honey called for in recipe:. 2  use. 3  1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/4 cup liquid (use liquid called for in recipe). 4  OR. 5  1 cup molasses. 6  OR. 7  1 cup light or dark corn syrup. 8  OR. 9  1 cup pure maple syrup. 10  servings is suggested only. 11  yield is aprox. 1 1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/4 cup liquid (use liquid called for in recipe). 2  OR. 3  1 cup molasses. 4  OR. 5  1 cup light or dark corn syrup. 6  OR. 7  1 cup pure maple syrup. 8  servings is suggested only.
To substitute honey for white sugar in baked goods use 3/4 cup honey for every 1 cup of sugar. Honey adds a lot of moisture to a recipe, so reduce other liquids in the recipe by ½ cup for every 1 cup of honey added. Also, decrease oven temperature by 25 degrees to ensure your baked goods don’t brown too much. To use pure maple syrup in place of sugar in a baked recipe, use 3/4 cup pure maple syrup for 1 cup of granulated sugar and reduce the dominant liquid in the recipe by 3 tablespoons for each cup of maple syrup used. Using maple syrup in baked goods may cause them to brown more quickly, due to the high sugar content.
Substitutes for Honey. Honey can be a great addition to a variety of different foods as well as a natural sweetener that can replace sugar. Although this is a wonderful option, there are some people who need an alternative to honey. Some honey substitutes include maple syrup, molasses, light/dark corn syrup, rice syrup, barley malt syrup, and agave nectar. Maple Syrup. Maple syrup is a natural sweetener that is collected from maple trees.
2. When substituting a liquid for a granulated sweetener (e.g. using honey when the recipe calls for sucanat or brown sugar), for every 1 cup of honey, subtract 1/4 cup of liquid from the recipe (that means also, for every 1/4 cup of honey, subtract 1 Tbsp of liquid). 3. 5. Since maple syrup and honey are somewhat acidic, when baking, you will need to add 1/4 – 1/2 tsp baking soda per cup of honey or maple syrup to the batter so it will rise. 6. If you’d like to use stevia in your baking and cooking, check out Stevia-What It Is and How to Use It for helpful tips.
Whatever the reason, it is nice to know about the many substitutes for honey that exist. Some honey substitutes include maple syrup, molasses, light/dark corn syrup, rice syrup, barley malt syrup, and agave nectar. Maple Syrup. Maple syrup is a natural sweetener that is collected from maple trees.
Honey is sweeter than granulated sugar, so you might use a smaller amount of honey for sugar in some recipes. But honey actually has slightly more carbohydrates and more calories per teaspoon than does granulated sugar — so any calories and carbohydrates you save will be minimal. 