RDW is a medical abbreviation that stands for. It is a measurement of the size of red blood cells. RDW is routinely tested for during a Complete Blood Count, CBC. A normal RDW range for adults is 10.2 - 14.6. Expect normal RDW to vary from testing lab to testing lab. Low values can suggest anemia while high values are sometimes seen in liver disease and vitamin B -12 deficiency case
At the other hand, the red-cell distribution width coefficient of variation is expressed as a percentage and is calculated from the standard deviation and the mean corpuscular volume. In other words, the RDW (CV) is dependent upon the size of the red blood cells. Normal values lies between 11.6 – 14.6%. 
RDW-CV and RDW-SD. Red blood cell distribution width is a way for scientists to measure red blood cell volume and size. When red blood cells are larger than normal, that could indicate a problem. The reference range for RDW is as follows: 1  RDW-SD: 29-46 fL. 2  RDW-CV: 11.6 – 14.6% (for adults). 
Red cell distribution width (RDW) is a parameter that measures variation in red blood cell size or red blood cell volume. RDW is elevated in accordance with variation in red cell size (anisocytosis), ie, when elevated RDW is reported on complete blood count, marked anisocytosis (increased variation in red cell size) is expected on peripheral blood smear review. The reference range for RDW is as follows: RDW-SD 39-46 fL
77 Followers. A. RDW stands for the red blood cell distribution width. This is a standard reported measure on a complete blood count (CBC) lab test. It measures the variability in red blood cell size. In the normal state, red blood cells are continually being produced and removed from the blood at a steady rate. 
Range 11.0 - 15.0. Measures the range of sizes of red blood cells in a blood sample. RDW results are often used together with MCV results to determine possible cause of anemia when anemia is indicated by other test results. 
Usually red blood cells are a standard size. Certain disorders, however, cause a significant variation in cell size. Higher RDW values indicate greater variation in size. Normal range in human red blood cells is 11 - 15%. If anemia is observed, RDW test results are often used together with MCV results to figure out what the cause of the anemia might be. It is mainly used to differentiate between iron deficiency anemia, in which RDW is elevated, and other microcytic anemias.
Normal range of RDW values for blood tests. The normal range of RDW values are between eleven and fourteen percent. The RDW range value that is most favorable is at thirteen percent. A higher than normal range RDW value is a good indicator of the presence of several disorders and abnormalities within an individual. 
Human red blood cells. Red blood cell distribution width (RDW-CV or RCDW and RDW-SD) is a measure of the range of variation of red blood cell (RBC) volume that is reported as part of a standard complete blood count. Usually red blood cells are a standard size of about 6-8 μm in diameter. Certain disorders, however, cause a significant variation in cell size. Higher RDW values indicate greater variation in size. Normal reference range of RDW-CV in human red blood cells is 11.5-14.5%. If anemia is observed, RDW test results are often used together with mean corpuscular volume (MCV) results to determine the possible causes of the anemia. 