For arithmetic sequences, the common difference is d, and the first term a1 is often referred to simply as a . Since you get the next term by adding the common difference, the value of a2 is just a + d. The third term is a3 = (a + d) + d = a + 2d. The fourth term is a4 = (a + 2d) + d = a + 3d. 
Formulas used with arithmetic sequences and arithmetic series: To find any term of an arithmetic sequence: where a1 is the first term of the sequence, d is the common difference, n is the number of the term to find. Note: a1 is often simply referred to as a. To find the sum of a certain number of terms of an arithmetic sequence: where Sn is the sum of n terms (nth partial sum), a1 is the first term, an is the nth term. Examples: Question Answer 1. Find the common difference for this arithmetic sequence 5, 9, 13, 17 ...
Definition of ARITHMETIC PROGRESSION. : a progression (as 3, 5, 7, 9) in which the difference between any term and its predecessor is constant. ADVERTISEMENT. Next Word in the Dictionary: arithmetic scale Previous Word in the Dictionary: arithmetic mean All Words Near: arithmetic progression. ADVERTISEMENT. 
In mathematics, an arithmetic progression (AP) or arithmetic sequence is a sequence of numbers such that the difference between the consecutive terms is constant. For instance, the sequence 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 … is an arithmetic progression with common difference of 2. If the initial term of an arithmetic progression is and the common difference of successive members is d, then the n th term of the sequence () is given by: and in general. A finite portion of an arithmetic progression is called a finite arithmetic progression and sometimes just called an arithmetic progression. The behavior of the arithmetic progression depends on the common difference d. If the common difference is: 1  Positive, the members (terms) will grow towards positive infinity. 2  Negative, the members (terms) will grow towards negative infinity.
Sum of an arithmetic progression: The sum of the n terms of an arithmetic progression with first term a1 and common difference d is: Also, the sum of an arithmetic progression is equal to. Example 5: Find the sum of the 10 terms of the arithmetic progresion if a1 = 5 and d = 4. General term of arithmetic progression: The general term of an arithmetic progression with first term a1 and common difference d is: Example 3: Find the general term for the arithmetic sequence -1, 3, 7, 11, . . . Then find a12. Solution: Here a1 = 1. To find d subtract any two adjacent terms: d = 7 - 3 = 4. The general term is: To find a12 let k = 12
Arithmetic sequence is a sequence of numbers that has a constant difference between every two consecutive terms. In other words, arithmetic sequence is a sequence of numbers in which each term except the first term is the result of adding the same number, called the common difference, to the preceding term.
An arithmetic sequence (or arithmetic progression) is a sequence (finite or infinite list) of real numbers for which each term is the previous term plus a constant (called the common difference). 
Arithmetic Progression. An arithmetic progression, also known as an arithmetic sequence, is a sequence of numbers such that the differences between successive terms is a constant. An arithmetic progression can be generated in the Wolfram Language using the command. [ , , d ]. 