Macular degeneration is the deterioration or breakdown of the macula. The macula is a small area in the retina at the back of the eye that allows you to see fine details clearly and perform activities such as reading and driving. Although macular degeneration reduces vision in the central part of the retina, it usually does not affect the eye’s side, or peripheral, vision. For example, you could see the outline of a clock but not be able to tell what time it is. Macular degeneration alone does not result in total blindness
Exudative senile macular degeneration. 1  Short description: Exudative macular degen. 2  ICD-9-CM 362.52 is a billable medical code that can be used to indicate a diagnosis on a reimbursement claim, however, 362.52 should only be used for claims with a date of service on or before September 30, 2015. 
(Redirected from Senile macular degeneration). Macular degeneration, often age-related macular degeneration (AMD or ARMD), is a medical condition that usually affects older adults and results in a loss of vision in the center of the visual field (the macula) because of damage to the retina. It occurs in dry and wet forms. Although some macular dystrophies affecting younger individuals are sometimes rarely referred to as macular degeneration, the term generally refers to age-related macular degeneration (AMD or ARMD). The retina is a network of visual receptors and nerves.
There are two main types, involutional and exudative age-related macular degeneration. The involutional (dry or non-exudative) type accounts for 90 per cent of cases and is characterized by the gradual wearing out of the cells in the retinal pigment epithelium, resulting in a slow, progressive loss of central vision. Age-related macular degeneration (ARMD). Degeneration of the macula (the central part of the retina where the rods and cones are most dense) that leads to loss of central vision in people over 60.
In the wet, or exudative, form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), pathologic choroidal neovascular membranes (CNVM) develop under the retina. The CNVM can leak fluid and blood and, if left untreated, ultimately cause a centrally blinding disciform scar. Approximately 10-20% of patients with nonexudative AMD eventually progress to the exudative form, which is responsible for the majority of the estimated 1.75 million cases of advanced AMD in the United States. See the image below. Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), exudative. Physicians have traditionally recognized two types of macular degeneration: dry and wet. The hallmark of the dry, or nonexudative form, is the deposition of extracellular material beneath the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) that leads to the formation of drusen
It is common in exudative macular degeneration for the vessels beneath the retina to burst and lead to leakage into the retina itself. Wet macular degeneration can be more detrimental to eyesight than the dry form of the condition. Laser eye surgery can sometimes be used as a temporary treatment for exudative macular degeneration. Exudative macular degeneration is characterized by the formation of blood vessels below the retina. Smoking increases the risk of macular degeneration. View slideshow of images above
“Dry” Macular degeneration (atrophic) – Most people have the “dry” form of AMD. It is caused by aging and thinning of the tissues of the macula. Vision loss is usually gradual. “Wet” Macular Degeneration (Exudative) – The “wet” form of macular degeneration accounts for about 10% of all AMD cases. It results when abnormal blood vessels form underneath the retina at the back of the eye. These new blood vessels leak fluid or blood and blur central vision. Although macular degeneration reduces vision in the central part of the retina, it usually does not affect the eye’s side, or peripheral, vision. For example, you could see the outline of a clock but not be able to tell what time it is. Macular degeneration alone does not result in total blindness