Reverse Transcriptase. Reverse transcriptase catalyzes the formation of double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from a single-stranded ribonucleic acid (RNA) genome.
Reverse transcriptases are enzymes encoded in retroviruses viral genome. The enzyme is responsible for transcription of the viral RNA to produce a dsDNA that can be inserted into the host genome.
Reverse transcriptase (RT) has several enzymatic activities, including an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase, DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, RNase H (a ribonuclease that degrades RNA in RNA-DNA hybrid structure), and the ability to unwind DNA-DNA and RNA-DNA duplexes.
Confidence votes 6. Reverse transcriptase is the viral enzyme responsible for making a DNA copy of the RNA genome from a retrovirus. As such, it is technically known as an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase. This is opposite to the usual flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein.
Biotechnology Index Glossary Reverse Transcriptases Reverse transcriptase is a common name for an enzyme that functions as a RNA-dependent DNA polymerase. They are encoded by retroviruses, where they copy the viral RNA genome into DNA prior to its integration into host cells.
Reverse transcriptase is characteristic of retroviruses, including HIV (human immunodeficiency virus), the virus responsible for AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). All retroviruses encode a polymerase enzyme in their pol gene that is both necessary and sufficient for the replication of their RNA genomes.
An enzyme (protein) that's part of the human immunodeficiency virus reads the sequence of viral RNA nucleic acids (yellow in graphic) that have entered the host cell and transcribes the sequence into a complementary DNA sequence (shown in blue). That enzyme is called reverse transcriptase .
Reverse Transcriptases. Reverse transcriptase is a common name for an enzyme that functions as a RNA-dependent DNA polymerase. They are encoded by retroviruses, where they copy the viral RNA genome into DNA prior to its integration into host cells.