Carey Stinson. Actor. Carey Stinson is an actor, known for Barney & Friends (1992), Barney: The Land of Make Believe (2005) and Barney: Now I Know My ABC's (2004). See full bio ». 
has been on the air since 1992, hosting a show which uses song and dance to teach preschool tots in an environment of warmth and caring. Barney's is a loveable persona, and the children he interacts with as part of the show happily sing and dance along with him, looking upon him as a much-admired friend. He was trying to give them to children on the show. [Collected on the Internet, February 2006]. Several people I know were saying that the actor who played Barney on the children's TV show Barney and Friends was fired because he swore at a young boy who stepped on his tail.
David Eugene Joyner was born on July 4th, 1963 in Decatur, Illinois to the proud parents, Roscoe and Mary Joyner. He is the 5th out 6 children. His nickname growing up was Preacher. He graduated in 1981, with Honors, from MacArthur High School in Decatur at the age of 17. And in 1983 he graduated ITT Technical Institute of Indianapolis, Indiana ...
For a long time, the job belonged to David Joyner — the man who operated the Barney suit and embodied the purple dinosaur from 1992-2000. (Barney’s voice was performed by another actor.) And as David will tell you, being Barney is kind of a big deal. 4. David had a metaphysical connection to Barney prior to his audition for the role. “I kept watching these [early Barney videos] and I would fall asleep. I couldn’t understand why. I have these very clairvoyant dreams at times when I’m really trying to figure something out or solve a problem…So I have this dream.
'cause the son of the woman who created . Barney & Friends  has been arrested for allegedly trying to MURDER a 49-year-old man in Malibu. 27-year-old Patrick Leach -- son of Barney creator Sheryl Leach -- was arrested in Agoura Hills, CA for allegedly shooting a man in the chest on January 9 ... this according to TheAcorn.com. Cops say they have recovered evidence that connects Patrick to the shooting
Barney was played by Matthew Martins (Barney suit); his voice was done by Taylor Tobias until 2001, at which stage Brittany Purcell took over the voice. 
SANTA MONICA, CA-OCTOBER 27: Barney The Dinosaur entertains children at the 2007 Dream Halloween 'Under The Big Top' hosted by Jaime Lee Curtis to benefit the Children Affected by AIDS Foundation October 27, 2007 at Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California. 