This bustling resort in the Cancun Hotel Zone has a bunch of features for families. You won't find extensive grounds or upscale tone, but you will find areas designed for fun including kids' waterpark, multiple pools, game room, and minigolf. Photo courtesy of Moon Palace. Several Palace Resorts in Cancun and the Riviera Maya welcome families. The giant Moon Palace Golf Resort & Spa, for instance, is just south of the Cancun airport, and well-positioned for day-trips in the Mayan Riviera.
Hotels here know what families are looking for in a beach vacation, and they deliver. Here are five of Cancun’s best beach resorts for families: Omni Hotel and Villas: With its well-run kids’ program, zero-entry pool and babysitting services, this resort caters particularly well to families with little ones. Kids in Cancun (Flickr: dkaz). Cancun is famous for luxurious mega-resorts, laid-back locals, and a backyard full of ancient Mayan ruins, but make no mistake—most people go for the glorious beach.
With its prime spot in Mexico's Yucatan peninsula and its white sand beaches on the Caribbean Sea, Cancun's 25-km Hotel Zone of double waterfront (ocean and lagoon) is a magnet for families. Photo courtesy of Moon Palace. Several Palace Resorts in Cancun and the Riviera Maya welcome families. The giant Moon Palace Golf Resort & Spa, for instance, is just south of the Cancun airport, and well-positioned for day-trips in the Mayan Riviera.
Their drinks are wonderful and they have live bands and have the kids parade around the restaurant and stuff. If you go to cancun pericos is a MUST!!! Also, jetskis, boatrides, snorkeling trips and other water activities are everywhere! Cancun is a definite for families.... There are many things to do for kids as well as adults. There is a wet and wild water park. There is xelha which is a natural water park in riviera maya... i forget exactly how long it takes to get there-maybe an hour or an hour and a half on a bus.
Dreams Cancun: This oh-so-plush resort landed on Conde Nast Traveler ’s list of Top 10 Resorts in Mexico for good reason. Start with larger-than-average rooms and all-inclusive pricing, then add in a terrific kids’ club, five restaurants, and an enormous pool and you’ve got a winner for families. Kids in Cancun (Flickr: dkaz). Cancun is famous for luxurious mega-resorts, laid-back locals, and a backyard full of ancient Mayan ruins, but make no mistake—most people go for the glorious beach.
Cancun is known for it's nightlife, and everything that goes along with that. For my money (and with a family) I would go further south to what is called the Myan Riviera. There are a number of resorts there that would be great. You can go to loco gringo or cancun.com to get info on all the resorts. There are many things to do for kids as well as adults. There is a wet and wild water park. There is xelha which is a natural water park in riviera maya... i forget exactly how long it takes to get there-maybe an hour or an hour and a half on a bus.
There are lots of areas to shop around and little restaurants. Also, I recommend getting a hotel with a great pool. This is the ultimate entertainment for kids! There is a great restaurant in downtown cancun(not the hotel zone-the real downtown) It is called pericos. There are many things to do for kids as well as adults. There is a wet and wild water park. There is xelha which is a natural water park in riviera maya... i forget exactly how long it takes to get there-maybe an hour or an hour and a half on a bus.
Crown Paradise Club. Just nine miles from the airport and at the quieter end of the Hotel Zone, this all inclusive Cancun resort is family-of-five-friendly, and has four pools, a supervised kids' water park, minigolf, a baby club for ages 18 mos. to 3 years, and kids club for ages for 4 to 12. Check prices More ». Cancun's 25-km Hotel Zone of double waterfront (ocean and lagoon) is a magnet for tourists who want dining, shopping and night-life, and is also popular with families. Most higher-end properties are not all inclusive, so if you're after that extra pampering, see Luxury Cancun Resorts that Welcome Families.
Cancun is great for familys, Just make sure you don't go on a CARNIVAL cruise they realy really suck and they don't even care. If you don't believe me just try and call Customer Service with a issue. Good luck. There are many things to do for kids as well as adults. There is a wet and wild water park. There is xelha which is a natural water park in riviera maya... i forget exactly how long it takes to get there-maybe an hour or an hour and a half on a bus.
The rest of the year it is much like any vacation town, but you may want to seek out a family-friendly resort like the Crown Paradise Club, Dreams Resort & Spa, Club Med or the Avalon Grand Cancun. What To Do With Kids in Cancun. First and foremost, kids love water. Our Isla Mujeres Fun Day cruise has a kids club that makes this a great family excursion. The Subsee Explorer and Atlantis Submarine are unique ways to see the underwater world of Cancun without ever getting wet. Perfect for families with kids of all ages-they will be excited.