Tests used to diagnose and guide treatment of cardiovascular disease will be a core part of your journey as a cardiovascular patient. This is true whether you first receive tests. 1  to understand your risk for serious events such as a heart attack or stroke, 
Heart disease that is causing few symptoms may be detected during a visit to a health practitioner for nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue. The healthcare provider may order a variety of blood and other tests to investigate possible causes of the person's symptoms. Laboratory blood tests. Cardiac risk testing is performed to screen asymptomatic people to help determine their risk of developing coronary heart disease. A cardiac risk assessment is a group of tests and health factors that have been proven to indicate the chance of having a cardiovascular event such as heart attack or stroke.
No matter what type of heart disease you have, your doctor will likely perform a physical exam and ask about your personal and family medical history before doing any tests. Besides blood tests and a chest X-ray, tests to diagnose heart disease can include: 1  Electrocardiogram (ECG). 2  An ECG records these electrical signals and can help your doctor detect irregularities in your heart's rhythm and structure. 1 This test is often used to check for heart problems. 2  In a cardiac CT scan, you lie on a table inside a doughnut-shaped machine. 3  An X-ray tube inside the machine rotates around your body and collects images of your heart and chest. 4  Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Learn about these ultrasound-like tests of the heart -- and find out what to expect -- here. Cardiac Catheterization. Cardiac catheterization -- also called a coronary angiogram -- means running a catheter into your heart. Calcium-score heart scan and coronary CT angiography are just a few types used to diagnose heart disease. Myocardial Biopsy. A myocardial biopsy is when a doctor uses a special catheter to remove a piece of your heart tissue for examination. Click here to learn why it's done.
Tests. The goals of testing for heart disease are to distinguish between symptoms that are heart-related and those that are due to another condition. Cardiac risk testing is performed to screen asymptomatic people to help determine their risk of developing coronary heart disease. A cardiac risk assessment is a group of tests and health factors that have been proven to indicate the chance of having a cardiovascular event such as heart attack or stroke.
Font Size. A. A. A. A stress test can be used to test for heart disease. Stress tests are tests performed by a doctor and/or trained technician to determine the amount of stress that your heart can manage before developing either an abnormal rhythm or evidence of ischemia (not enough blood flow to the heart muscle). 
Your doctor will diagnose coronary heart disease (CHD) based on your medical and family histories, your risk factors, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures. No single test can diagnose CHD. If your doctor thinks you have CHD, he or she may recommend one or more of the following tests. 
Home Diagnostic Testing. These home medical tests may be relevant to Cardiovascular Disease 1  : High Blood Pressure: Home Testing. 2  Home Blood Pressure Hypertension Tests. 3  Home Blood Pressure Monitors. 4  Home Heart Tests. 5  Heart Health: Home Testing: 