Roaning can give a horse’s coat a silvery effect. Roan horses can be of any color, roaning being a pattern rather than a color itself, but the contrast is more striking on dark colors. Roaning may be masked by gray, and can occur in combination with dun, any of the pinto or appaloosa patterns. Personally I think the easiest method would be to simply add roan to the coat color, so we get black roan, bay roan, chestnut roan, palomino roan and so on. However two terms in very common and longstanding usage are blue roan and red roan. Red roan horses are chestnut with a roaning pattern. In the UK red roan is also commonly called strawberry roan. Unfortunately the term red roan is also sometimes used to describe bay roan horses, which can nevertheless easily be identified by the black mane, tail and lower leg
Horses with the classic or true roan pattern may be any base color which is intermingled with unpigmented white hairs on the body. Except for white markings under the control of other genes, the head, mane, tail, and lower legs are dark. Roan is a simple dominant trait symbolized by the Rn allele. The University of California, Davis School of Veterinary Medicine 's genetics services have developed a DNA test that uses genetic markers to indirectly determine the number of Rn or rn alleles a horse has. Roan is a coat color found in many animals, including horses, cattle and dogs.
For example in the case of a horse which has both a gene for roan R and a gene for grey G, both of which are dominant genes, you will not be able to tell that the horse has a roan gene because the greying covers it up. Also since your mare is also a roan Rr then 50% of time roaning will affect the colors. So a wierd but not impossible horse could be a red dun roan leopard appy which has a 50% chance of greying or not. P.S. a blanket pattern is also possible since your mare carries that as well.
Alleles are dominant or recessive. For example, the Extension gene codes for the production of eumelanin pigment, causing a horse to be black. A mutation occurred in that gene at some time long ago that coded the gene for the production of phaeomelanin, which produces red pigment. Red and Flaxen will only manifest if the horse is homozygous for the allelle of that gene; i.e. Red results only when there are two e forms of the Extension gene. A single dominant E allelle will overpower it, resulting in a black horse. (Red means both Sorrel and Chestnut.
Both parents must carry a trait in order for a foal to be homozygous for that trait. For example, a sorrel bred to a black can NOT produce a foal that will be homozygous for black. A horse will throw it's color trait (dun, roan, etc.) 50% of the time unless it is homozygous for that trait. Non-homozygous horses (heterozygous for a trait) will throw their visible trait 50% of the time, and the recessive trait 50% of the time. That's why if you breed a palomino to a sorrel, you'll get 50% sorrels and 50% palominos. . Each of her parents had a 50% chance of passing his/her dun gene along to her
The combination of the dominant Cream gene and the recessive Pearl dilution gene will produce a pale coat color similar to that of horses that are homozygous for the Cream gene, such as cremello. The skin is pale and the eyes a blue/green color. Other Pages In the Color Section of this Website: The Base Colors: Red. Red and Flaxen will only manifest if the horse is homozygous for the allelle of that gene; i.e. Red results only when there are two e forms of the Extension gene. A single dominant E allelle will overpower it, resulting in a black horse. (Red means both Sorrel and Chestnut.
Non-homozygous horses (heterozygous for a trait) will throw their visible trait 50% of the time, and the recessive trait 50% of the time. That's why if you breed a palomino to a sorrel, you'll get 50% sorrels and 50% palominos over the long run. Non-homozygous horses (heterozygous for a trait) will throw their visible trait 50% of the time, and the recessive trait 50% of the time. That's why if you breed a palomino to a sorrel, you'll get 50% sorrels and 50% palominos. . Each of her parents had a 50% chance of passing his/her dun gene along to her