Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate are building blocks that the body uses to form a variety of soft tissue structural elements. One such essential structure is the cartilage that is found in joints (e.g., knee joint). Osteoarthritis (OA) , the most common type of joint disorder, occurs when the articular cartilage in a given joint thins and wears away. Several years ago G and CS became popular as natural alternatives to anti-inflammatory medications to help relieve the pain associated with OA.
Veterinary medicine has been using glucosamine successfully for decades to replace lost cartilage in the joints of animals. The reason that doctors have not been doing this for human patients is yet another topic outside the scope of this article. Other names for glucosamine are: glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine sulphate, glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetyl glucosamine, chitosamine. Glucosamine is a compound found naturally in the body, made from glucose and the amino acid glutamine.
Thus because of the affect of glucosamine on cartilage metabolism it can in fact help the body to repair damaged or eroded cartilage. In other words, glucosamine strengthens your body’s natural repair mechanisms. Besides stimulating cartilage production, glucosamine also reduces joint pain and inflammation. 
Glucosamine is one of the substances in your body that is used to build cartilage. The most common type of arthritis, osteoarthritis wears away the slick cartilage that covers the ends of your bones and helps joints move smoothly. Study results have been varied, partly because not all the studies have used the same type of glucosamine. And not all the studies included a placebo comparison, or ensured that neither the patient nor the researchers knew which pill was being administered. That said, glucosamine is relatively inexpensive and safe. If other treatments aren't helping, you might want to talk to your doctor about whether a trial of glucosamine is right for you. It may take up to four months before you see any pain relief
1 Acetaminophen may also be helpful for relief of joint pain associated with osteoarthritis. 2  Taking glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate nutritional supplements may reduce some patients' need for anti-inflammatory or pain medications, while others may continue to take other medications for pain relief. Conventional medicine does not yet have a proven treatment to stop or slow the progression of osteoarthritis. The nutritional supplements glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate have emerged as a treatment alternative for some patients suffering from osteoarthritis pain.
In additional to nutritional supplements, glucosamine is also used in sports drinks and in cosmetics. Since the body's natural glucosamine is used to make and repair joint cartilage, taking glucosamine as a nutritional supplement is thought to help repair damaged cartilage by augmenting the body's supply of glucosamine. Other names for glucosamine are: glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine sulphate, glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetyl glucosamine, chitosamine. Glucosamine is a compound found naturally in the body, made from glucose and the amino acid glutamine.
Available throughout the body, but found largely in the cartilage, Glucosamine is an important part of the mucopolysaccharides which form the proteoglycans which provide structure to the bones, cartilage, skin, nails, hair and other body tissues. Recommended initial dosage for Advanced Cartilage Support is 2 capsules 3 times per day, providing 1,200 mg Glucosamine, 900 mg Sea Cucumber (a rich source of Chondroitin), 300 mg hydrolized cartilage, and 300 mg MSM per day.
Rejuvenation Science Advanced Cartilage Support is a clinically tested cartilage support formula. It contains Glucosamine, MSM, Sea Cucumber (a natural, rich source of Chondroitin), and Hydrolyzed Cartilage to nutritionally support the rebuilding and repair of cartilage. Recommended initial dosage for Advanced Cartilage Support is 2 capsules 3 times per day, providing 1,200 mg Glucosamine, 900 mg Sea Cucumber (a rich source of Chondroitin), 300 mg hydrolized cartilage, and 300 mg MSM per day.
Glucosamine and chondroitin are part of normal cartilage. Cartilage acts as a cushion between the bones in a joint. Glucosamine, also called chitosamine, is a natural substance that is found in the covering of shellfish. It is available in different forms, including glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetyl-glucosamine (NAG), and glucosamine sulfate, which is a combination of glucosamine and mineral salt. Chondroitin can come from natural sources, such as shark or bovine cartilage, or it can be made in a lab. Chondroitin is also known as chondroitin sulfate, chondroitin sulfuric acid, and chonsurid. Chondroitin sulfate is a combination of chondroitin
Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate may not provide sufficient pain relief for all osteoarthritis patients. Many patients find it is best to use glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate nutritional supplements in conjunction with other nonsurgical treatments (under the guidance of their treating physician), such as: Conventional medicine does not yet have a proven treatment to stop or slow the progression of osteoarthritis. The nutritional supplements glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate have emerged as a treatment alternative for some patients suffering from osteoarthritis pain.