1 Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. 2  These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues. 1 With a tail measuring 8 feet wide and containing over 200 feathers, the peacock is the tacky Vegas showgirl of the animal world. 2  Here's where the scientific part comes in: peacocks with the bluest blue eyes on their tail are deemed to be the healthiest.
Peacock video. 1  Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. 2  These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues. 1 With a tail measuring 8 feet wide and containing over 200 feathers, the peacock is the tacky Vegas showgirl of the animal world. 2  Here's where the scientific part comes in: peacocks with the bluest blue eyes on their tail are deemed to be the healthiest.
The most interesting fact about the Peacock is the colorful features of this pheasant family. They can include colors of black, green, blue, gray, red, and orange. They can be displayed in a train that travels behind the body of the bird. The markings can be very different for each Peacock too. 
Peacocks are actually peafowls. Males are called peacocks and females are called peahens. Baby peafowls are called peachicks. There are two familiar species of peafowl: Indian Peafowl (Pavo cristatus or blue peacock) and Green Peafowl (Pavo muticus or green peacock). The Indian Peafowl resides in the Indian subcontinent and is the national bird of the Republic of India.
Even though most people call them peacocks however, these birds are called peafowl because only male peafowl is recognized by the name of peacock. 1  Blue or Indian Peafowl. 2  Congo Peafowl. 3  Green Peafowl. Facts about Peacocks. 1  Male peafowl are known as peacocks while females are generally called peahens. 2  Group name of peahens is called Harem whereas in case of peacocks, it’s a party. 3  The weight of peacocks ranges from 1 kilogram to 6 kilograms.
Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) are beautiful birds that are native to Southeast Asia. The male peafowl is called a peacock; the female peafowl is called a peahen. In the wild, they live in deciduous tropical rainforests. Peacocks do not migrate. A group of peafowl is called a muster. Anatomy: The male peafowl, the peacock, is about 7 feet long with a full train. The female, the peahen, is about 3 feet long.
Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues. Technically, only males are peacocks. Females are peahens, and together, they are called peafowl. Suitable males may gather harems of several females, each of which will lay three to five eggs. In fact, wild peafowl often roost in forest trees and gather in groups called parties. Peacocks are ground-feeders that eat insects, plants, and small creatures. There are two familiar peacock species. The blue peacock lives in India and Sri Lanka, while the green peacock is found in Java and Myanmar (Burma). A more distinct and little-known species, the Congo peacock, inhabits African rain forest
20 Jun, 2011 where do 1. A Peacock is the male member of the peafowl species, which is part of the pheasant family (although peacock is now recognized as the name for both male and female birds of this species). The peacock has a spectacular tail of green and brown feathers, which spread open wide when courting. Its body is iridescent blue-green in color. Both the male and female of the species has a crest on top of their heads. Female Indian peafowl are dull in color and have dull green, brown or gray feathers. Female peafowl do not have the long trailing tail of the male peacock.
Most of us perhaps wonder about where do peacocks live in the real world. We might also have had an experience of gazing at these birds in the zoo behind cage but never able to figure out the actual peacocks habitat. Facts about Peacocks. 1  Male peafowl are known as peacocks while females are generally called peahens. 2  Group name of peahens is called Harem whereas in case of peacocks, it’s a party. 3  The weight of peacocks ranges from 1 kilogram to 6 kilograms.