For use in most small household appliances such as kettles,steam irons, coffee machines as well as shower heads and taps. Superfast action removes limescale deposits in just 10 minutes. 3 sachets available per pack.
In just ten minutes appliances from coffee machines and steam irons to all types of kettles and even showerheads can be restored to their former glory! OUST All Purpose Descaler removes limescale leaving appliances clean, fresh and working more efficiently. 3 sachets per pack.
1 Limescale doesn't just look unpleasant-it can shorten the life of appliances too. 2  Oust multi-purpose descaler is formulated to work quickly and easily to restore most small household appliances to their best in just 10 minutes.
2) If any scale remains, reheat solution until it fizzes (but DO NOT boil). 3) Pour solution away: rinse kettle with cold wate, boil again with clean water and then rinse once more. Coffee Maker. 1) Half fill water reservoir with water and add 3 capfuls of Oust.
1 Oust multi-purpose descaler is formulated to work quickly and easily to restore most small household appliances to their best in just 10 minutes. 2  This bottle format can be used on kettles, coffee and cappuccino machines and steam irons-it's also ideal for keeping toilet bowls pristine.
In just ten minutes appliances from coffee machines and steam irons to all types of kettles and even showerheads can be restored to their former glory! Product code: 111241.
Empty contents of 1 sachet into jug and add hot water. Leave for 10 minutes. To keep appliances good-as-new and running efficiently, descale every 3 months in hard water area and every 6 months in soft water areas.
That's why Oust All Purpose Descaler is specially formulated to work quickly and easily to restore most small household appliances to their best in just 10 minutes; its super-fast action is ideal for use in kettles, coffee or cappuccino machines, steam irons and shower heads.
In just ten minutes appliances from coffee machines and steam irons to all types of kettles and even showerheads can be restored to their former glory! Oust All Purpose Descaler removes limescale leaving appliances clean, fresh and working more efficiently.
That's why Oust All Purpose Descaler is specially formulated to work quickly and easily to restore most small household appliances to their best in just 10 minutes; its super-fast action is ideal for use in kettles, coffee or cappuccino machines, steam irons and shower heads.