Saipan is the second largest island in the Mariana Islands archipelago, after Guam. It is located about 120 mi (190 km) north of Guam and 5 nautical miles (9.3 km) northeast of Tinian, from which it is separated by the Saipan Channel. Saipan is about 12 mi (19 km) long and 5.6 mi (9.0 km) wide, with a land area of 115.38 km 2 (44.55 sq mi).
Natural threats: cyclones. Saipan is the principal island and commercial center of the Northern Mariana Islands. It is about 12.5 miles long and 5.5 miles wide and has a total land area of 46.5 square miles, which is about the size of San Francisco. Saipan is slightly larger than Hong Kong but smaller than the District of Columbia. Tourism and garment manufacturing are the major economic activities. Saipan is 120 miles north of the United States Territory of Guam. Saipan is one of 14 islands in the Northern Marianas archipelago that make up the United States Commonwealth
Located just north of Guam in the western Pacific, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a three-hundred mile archipelago consisting of 14 islands, with a total land area of 183.5 square miles. The principal inhabited islands are Saipan, Rota and Tinian. Saipan is approximately 3,300 miles from Honolulu and 3000 miles from Sydney. The majority of the CNMI's residents live on Rota, Tinian, and Saipan, the capital and largest of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Satellite view is showing Saipan, the largest island and capital of the United States Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI). The Northern Marianas are part of the Marianas archipelago, the three main islands are Saipan, Tinian and Rota. Saipan is located about 2,650 km east of Manila, Philippines and about 120 mi (190 km) north east of Guam in the western Pacific Ocean. The map shows an island map of Saipan with cities, towns, main roads and streets, Saipan International Airport (IATA code: SPN) is located in the south of the island. Zoom out to find Rota International Airport (IATA code: ROP), located on Rota island, about 111 km (69 mi) south west from Saipan.
Saipan is a tropical island in the Pacific where it is a part of a chain of 14 tropical islands where Saipan is the capital as well as the largest tropical island of the United States Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands-CNMI. It is also the Principal Island and commercial center of the Northern Mariana Islands. Saipan stretches 400 miles (north to south) along the edge of the Marianas Trench where the deepest part of the ocean and the deepest location on Earth is situated. About Saipan. In the Western Pacific Ocean north of the equator in an area known as the Marianas and about 120 mi (190 km) north of Guam is where the island of Saipan is located.
Saipan. Saipan is the largest of the Northern Mariana Islands and the capital. About 12.5 miles long and 5.5 miles wide, Saipan is the principal island and major commercial center of the archipelago. Formed by a rising coral reef, this tropical paradise offers beautiful white sand beaches with crystal clear water and ocean-riding, fresh, clean air
Saipan /saɪˈpaen/ saɪˈpæn is the largest island of The Northern Mariana, islands a commonwealth of The United states in the Western Pacific. ocean It is located about 120 mi (190 km) north of Guam and 5 nautical miles (9.3 km) northeast of Tinian, from which it is separated by the Saipan Channel. Saipan is about 12 mi (19 km) long and 5.6 mi (9.0 km) wide, with a land area of 115.38 km 2 (44.55 sq mi).