In baseball, the field manager (commonly referred to as the manager) is an individual who is responsible for matters of team strategy on the field and team leadership. Typically, the title of manager is only used in professional baseball, with the title head coach used at other levels of play. In many cases, a manager is a former professional, semi-professional or college player.
(August 2011). In Major League Baseball, the general manager (GM) of a team typically controls player transactions and bears the primary responsibility on behalf of the ballclub during contract discussions with players. In baseball, the term manager used without qualification almost always refers to the field manager, not the general manager.
In baseball, a general manager, or GM, is not an on-field position. The GM manages budgets and personnel, hires and fires coaches, oversees player facilities and otherwise runs the business side of the team. In the minors, GMs have closer ties to the overall organization than their major league counterparts. General Manager Salaries. Salaries for minor league GMs vary depending on the level -- A, AA or AAA -- and experience. Few public records, however, are available regarding minor league GM salaries. According to Baseball America, pay for an A-level GM started around $45,000 per year in 2010
When it comes to describing the job of a Sports General Manager, however, all that’s really needed is one word: manage. Imagine a sports team as a company: As a Sports General Manager, you’re the CEO, and Professional Athletes are your employees. Your job therefore involves three Ps: people, profits, and press. To do this, you assess your team’s strengths and weaknesses, then seek out Players who meet its needs with the help of a Sports Talent Scout. Upon recruiting new Players — usually through an annual league-wide draft —you’re then responsible for leading and overseeing contract and salary negotiations.
General Managers. The General Manager, or GM, of a baseball team typically controls player transactions and is responsibile for contract discussions with players. They are also the person who typically hires and fires the team manager and their coaching staff. Baseball Almanac is pleased to present links to team lists that show all known general managers.
But baseball's dirty little secret is that the sport's highest-ranking executives are absurdly underpaid. Most general managers earn between $500,000 and $2 million annually, major league sources say. Only a few -- notably, the Yankees' Brian Cashman, Red Sox's Theo Epstein and Tigers' Dave Dombrowski -- are believed to make more than $2 million. 
The general manager is also normally the person who hires and fires the coaching staff, including the field manager who acts as the head coach. In baseball, the term manager used without qualification almost always refers to the field manager, not the general manager.
The general manager of a Major League Baseball team is responsible  for activities required to run a baseball team. The  responsibilities include: planning and attaining bud … gets, arranging  travels plans for the players and coaches, as well as addressing  questions and complaints in relation to the baseball team. Answer   According to the current collective bargaining agreeement, the minimum salary for a major league baseball player will be $380,000 in 2008. The maximum sala … ry in 2008 will be $27.5 million per year after a ten year, $275 million deal between the Yankees and Alex Rodriguez is finalized.
The general manager of a Major League Baseball team is responsible for activities required to run a baseball team. 