Flag of Madagascar. The flag of Madagascar was first hoisted in October 14, 1958 prior to the declaration of its independence in June 26, 1960. It was first flown alongside its preparation for a referendum which tackled its membership with the French community. The flag is composed of three colors white, red and green. The red and green are placed together (red on top, green below) to form two horizontal stripes while the white color is placed perpendicular to the two horizontal stripes.
Flag of Madagascar Description. The flag of Madagascar is divided horizontally, with a red stripe on top and green below. Along the hoist side is a white vertical stripe, the same width as the red and green stripes. The red on the flag traditionally represents the sovereignty of the nation, the green symbolizes hope, and the white shows purity. The flag of Madagascar consists of a white vertical stripe, and red and green horizontal stripes. This flag was officially adopted on October 14, 1958.
(December 2009). The flag of Madagascar was adopted on 14 October 1958, two years before the independence of that nation, as Madagascar prepared for a referendum on its status in the French Community. The colors of the flag represent Madagascar's history, yearning for independence, and traditional classes. Red and white were the colors of the Merina kingdom, which succumbed to France in 1896. They were used in the flag of the last Merina monarch, Queen Ranavalona III. They may indicate the ethnic origins of the Malagasy people in Southeast Asia, and are shared by the flag of Indonesia. 
Proportions: 2:3. Madagascar Flag Description: The flag of Madagascar consists of two horizontal stripes and one vertical stripe, all of which are of equal size. There is a vertical white stripe on the left side of the Madagascar flag. The rest of the Madagascar flag consists of a red horizontal stripe over top of a green one. Madagascar Flag Meaning: One theory on the Madagascar flag's meaning states that the colors of the Madagascar flag represent Madagascar's history, yearning for independence, and traditional classes. Red and white were the colors of the Merina kingdom, which fell to France in 1896. 
There are 3 colors red, white, and green. Red stands for sovereignty. White represents purity. Green realls those that lived by the sea and is a symbol or hope. 
A theory of the flag of Madagascar has a meaning which explains the colors on the flag of Madagascar. The colors represent the history; yearn for independence and the traditional classes. The white and the red colors are taken from the Merina kingdom which was defeated by French in the year 1896. The flag of Madagascar was approved on 14 October 1958. Madagascar got independence on 26 June 1960 from the French. 
The history of Madagascar will tell that the colors green and red were once used by Queen Ranavalona III as the flag of Merina kingdom which yielded to France’s domination in 1896. The flag is composed of three colors white, red and green. The red and green are placed together (red on top, green below) to form two horizontal stripes while the white color is placed perpendicular to the two horizontal stripes.
Flag of Madagascar What does the Madagascar flag look like, mean, and represent? Madagascar flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a vertical white band of the same width on hoist side; by tradition, red stands for sovereignty, green for hope, white for purity. Madagascar Learn about the country of Madagascar. Flag Descriptions Are you a flag fan?
The colors of the flag represent Madagascar's history, yearning for independence, and traditional classes. Red and white were the colors of the Merina kingdom, which succumbed to France in 1896. They were used in the flag of the last Merina monarch, Queen Ranavalona III. The flag of Madagascar was adopted on 14 October 1958, two years before the independence of that nation, as Madagascar prepared for a referendum on its status in the French Community.