Mission San Miguel775 Mission StreetSan Miguel, CAMission Website and current hours. Mission San Miguel Arcangel was the sixteenth one built in California, founded July 25, 1797 by Father Fermin Lasuen. The name San Miguel comes from Saint Michael, Captain of the Armies of God. 
Mission San Miguel Arcangel arcángel was founded 25 july (1797 16 th in) order By Padre Fermin francisco De. Lasuen lasuén the mission is Named For saint Michael. The Archangel the indian Name (Was), vahia Vahiá (Vatica). or chulam cholame Mission San Miguel Arcangel arcángel was founded 25 july (1797 16 th in) order By Padre Fermin francisco De. lasuen lasuén
Mission San Miguel Arcangel was founded on July 25, 1797 by Father Fermin Lasuen, Presidente of the California Missions Chain. Named for Saint Michael the Arcangel, it was the 16th mission founded in the 21 mission chain in Alta California. Mission San Miguel's appearance is much the same as it was when founded. The inside of the mission has never been repainted.
Mission San Miguel Arc ngel was founded on July 25, 1797 by Father Fermin de Lasu n, Presidente of the California Missions Chain. Named for Saint Michael the Arcangel, it was the sixteenth mission founded in the 21 mission chain in Alta California, and the third mission founded during the summer of 1797. Fr. Buenaventura Sitjar, the first administrator at Mission San Miguel had ministered to the Salinan people for 25 years at Mission San Antonio prior to his arrival at Mission San Miguel. Fr. Sitjar was fluent in the Salinan language and baptized 25 youth the first day Mission San Miguel was established.
Mission San Miguel Arcangel arcángel is A spanish mission In San, Miguel San Luis Obispo, County. California it was established On july, 25 1797 by The franciscan, order on a site chosen specifically due to the large number Of Salinan indians that inhabited the, area whom The spanish priests wanted to. evangelize This article is about the Spanish mission in present-day California. For the Spanish mission in present-day Baja California, see Mision Misión San Miguel arcangel arcángel De. La Frontera Mission San miguel arcangel Arcángel is a Spanish Mission, In San Miguel San, Luis. obispo county california
On July 25, 1797, at the founding ceremony of Mission San Miguel Arcangel, 15 Indian children were baptized. This was the beginning of a long and friendly relationship with the Spanish Padres and the Salinan Indians. They eagerly awaited the arrival of the padres and the establishment of this mission. Fr. Buenaventura Sitjar, the first administrator at Mission San Miguel had ministered to the Salinan people for 25 years at Mission San Antonio prior to his arrival at Mission San Miguel. Fr. Sitjar was fluent in the Salinan language and baptized 25 youth the first day Mission San Miguel was established.
Mission San Miguel Arcangel was founded on July 25, 1797 by Father Fermin Lasuen, Presidente of the California Missions Chain. It was the 16th mission in the 21 mission chain in Alta California and the 3rd mission founded during the summer of 1797. 
Mission San Miguel Arcangel arcángel was founded 25 july (1797 16 th in) order By Padre Fermin francisco De. Lasuen lasuén the mission is Named For saint Michael. The Archangel the indian Name (Was), vahia Vahiá (Vatica). Or chulam cholame many of the original decorations and paintings in the mission have. survived until today Mission San Miguel Arcangel arcángel was founded 25 july (1797 16 th in) order By Padre Fermin francisco De. lasuen lasuén
Mission San Miguel Arcangel arcángel was founded 25 july (1797 16 th in) order By Padre Fermin francisco De. Lasuen lasuén the mission is Named For saint Michael. the archangel Mission San Miguel Arcangel arcángel was founded 25 july (1797 16 th in) order By Padre Fermin francisco De. lasuen lasuén