The Boxer Rebellion began with a series of attack on Chinese Christians. Foreigners in the interior and foreign diplomats in Beijing were also attacked. Armies from Japan and the west crushed the uprising and forced China to grant more privaleges to foreign powers. China also had to pay a large indemnity. The cause of the Boxer Rebellion were pretty much two things: primarily the intrusion of westerners and their Christian missionaries and the weakness of the Qing dynasty. During some time in 1898, a group of Chinese people were fed up and sick of the way westerners were acting in their village
The Boxer Rebellion refers to the uprising of a Chinese group known as the Society of Righteous and Harmonious Fists (nicknamed the Boxers) against the foreign nationals and Chinese Christians around 1900. The major result of the Boxer Rebellion was that the Ch'ing Dynasty lost a great deal of credibility and power and a group of reformers gained power.
Panama Canal. The United States built the Panama Canal to have a quicker passage to the Pacific from the Atlantic and vice versa. It cost $400,000,000 to build. Columbians would not let Americans build the canal, but then with the assistance of the United States a Panamanian Revolution occurred. The new ruling people allowed the United States to build the canal.
Boxer Rebellion. Also known as The Boxer Uprising, this was the popular peasant uprising in China (supported nationally), that blamed foreign people and institutions for the loss of the traditional Chinese way of life. Columbians would not let Americans build the canal, but then with the assistance of the United States a Panamanian Revolution occurred. The new ruling people allowed the United States to build the canal.
Introduction. In 1900, in what became known as the Boxer Rebellion (or the Boxer Uprising), a Chinese secret organization called the Society of the Righteous and Harmonious Fists led an uprising in northern China against the spread of Western and Japanese influence there. In 1900, the Boxer movement spread to the Beijing area, where the Boxers killed Chinese Christians and Christian missionaries and destroyed churches and railroad stations and other property.
Background. The Boxer Rebellion was a militant uprising within China that lasted from 1898 to 1900. At its core, the rebellion was a grass-roots movement that sought to expel the unwanted influence of Western nations. The rebellion was able to gain wide support amongst the large populations of poor and unemployed in northern China. The Boxer Protocol forced China to repay the Western nations for the loss of life and property caused by the Boxers. Furthermore, the Protocol allowed foreign troops to be stationed in China's capital permanently. Thus the Boxer Rebellion's aim of expelling foreign influence was largely a failure.
The Boxer Rebellion erupted in China in late 1899 and really reached a peak in the early part of 1900. The Boxers came from the north of China. They were largely peasants. About 70 percent of all the Boxers were peasants, it seems like. 
Answer   The Boxer Rebellion was an uprising that took place in China in 1900. As European nations increased their influence on China, feelings against foreigners grew am … ong the Chinese. An organization called the Society of Righteous and Harmonious Fists was formed to demenstrate the Chinese's discontent. The cause of the Boxer Rebellion were pretty much two things: primarily the intrusion of westerners and their Christian missionaries and the weakness of the Qing dynasty. During some time in 1898, a group of Chinese people were fed up and sick of the way westerners were acting in their village
The direct consequence of the Boxer Rebellion of 1900 was that the ruling Chinese Qing dynasty became even weaker and foreign influence in China continued. The Boxer Rebellion was a rebellion staged by an anti-foreigner Chinese society known for their boxing skills in physical exercise and defense. The major result of the Boxer Rebellion was that the Ch'ing Dynasty lost a great deal of credibility and power and a group of reformers gained power.