The name 'vitamin C' always refers to the L-enantiomer of ascorbic acid and its oxidized forms. The opposite D-enantiomer called D-ascorbate has equal antioxidant power, but is not found in nature, and has no physiological significance. Vitamin C is a cofactor in at least eight enzymatic reactions, including several collagen synthesis reactions that, when dysfunctional, cause the most severe symptoms of scurvy. In animals, these reactions are especially important in wound-healing and in preventing bleeding from capillaries.
Vitamin C or L-ascorbic acid, or simply ascorbate (the anion of ascorbic acid), is an essential nutrient for humans and certain other animal species. Vitamin C is a cofactor in at least eight enzymatic reactions, including several collagen synthesis reactions that, when dysfunctional, cause the most severe symptoms of scurvy. In animals, these reactions are especially important in wound-healing and in preventing bleeding from capillaries.
vitamin C. See ascorbic acid. A vitamin that promotes the growth, formation and maintenance of bones and teeth, the repair of tissues and blood vessels, and increases resistance to infections; it is ingested in the diet in citrus fruits, tomatoes and leafy green vegetables. Vitamin C is required for the synthesis of collagen, an important structural component of blood vessels, tendons, ligaments, and bone. Vitamin C also plays an important role in the synthesis of the neurotransmitter, norepinephrine. Neurotransmitters are critical to brain function and are known to affect mood.
Noun. 1. vitamin C-a vitamin found in fresh fruits (especially citrus fruits) and vegetables; prevents scurvy. ascorbic acid, C. antioxidant-substance that inhibits oxidation or inhibits reactions promoted by oxygen or peroxides. water-soluble vitamin-any vitamin that is soluble in water. A vitamin important for healthy skin, teeth, bones, and blood vessels. It is found especially in citrus fruits, tomatoes, potatoes, and green leafy vegetables.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: vitamin C (Noun). The L-enantiomer of ascorbic acid, a water-soluble nutrient essential for life, synthesized by most animals and plants but not humans, although used in our bodies for many purposes. It is plentiful in citrous fruits and many vegetables, and a deficiency causes scurvy. Vitamin C. Vitamin C or L-ascorbic acid, or simply ascorbate, is an essential nutrient for humans and certain other animal species. Vitamin C refers to a number of vitamers that have vitamin C activity in animals, including ascorbic acid and its salts, and some oxidized forms of the molecule like dehydroascorbic acid
Vitamin A: Vitamin A is retinol. Carotene compounds (found, for example, in egg yolk, butter and cream) are gradually converted by the body to vitamin A (retinol). A form of vitamin A called retinal is responsible for transmitting light sensation in the retina of the eye. 
Vitamin C: An essential nutrient found mainly in fruits and vegetables. The body requires vitamin C to form and maintain bones, blood vessels, and skin. Vitamin C is also known as ascorbic acid. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, one that cannot be stored by the body except in insignificant amounts. It must be replenished daily. Vitamin C helps produce collagen, a protein needed to develop and maintain healthy teeth, bones, gums, cartilage, vertebrae discs, joint linings, skin and blood vessels.
Definition of VITAMIN C. : a water-soluble vitamin C6H8O6 found in plants and especially in fruits and leafy vegetables or made synthetically and used in the prevention and treatment of scurvy and as an antioxidant for foods —called also ascorbic acid. See vitamin C defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.