Synonyms. 1  The beast is replaced with a thin, swift reptile that is capable taking sharp corners and hiding inside buildings. 2  White and pale camels are much preferred by the men as mounts, especially those which are swift moving, sleek and pleasant to the eye. 
English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. Swift n 1 Graham Colin. born 1949, British writer: his novels include Waterland (1983) and Last Orders (1996), which won the Booker prize 2 Jonathan. 1667--1745, Anglo-Irish satirist and churchman, who became dean of St. Patrick's, Dublin, in 1713. swift. English Collins Dictionary-English synonyms & Thesaurus. See also: swift fox, swift moth, chimney swift, swifty. Add your entry in the Collaborative Dictionary. Suggest or Ask for translation/definition.
swift. adj. swift·er, swift·est. 1. Moving or capable of moving with great speed; fast. See Synonyms at fast 1. 2. Coming, occurring, or accomplished quickly: a swift retort. swift. 1. moving or capable of moving with great speed or velocity: a swift boat. 2. coming, happening, or performed quickly or without delay: a swift decision. 3. quick to act or respond.
SWIFT is defined as an acronym for the “Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication” a Brussels-based financial telecommunications network that connects 8,500 member banks throughout the world. in a swift manner. 1  a cylinder in a carding machine. 2  an expanding reel used to hold skeins of silk, etc. that are being wound off. 3  any of a large family (Apodidae, order Apodiformes) of aerial-feeding, insectivorous, swift-flying, swallowlike birds with long, stiff wings and a small, weak bill, as the chimney swift.
An example of SWIFT is a series of cash management services offered to their members-SWIFTNet Bulk Payments, SWIFTNet Cash Reporting, and SWIFTNet Exceptions and Investigations. The definition of swift is something that happens quickly or something that moves at high speed. in a swift manner. 1  a cylinder in a carding machine. 2  an expanding reel used to hold skeins of silk, etc. that are being wound off. 3  any of a large family (Apodidae, order Apodiformes) of aerial-feeding, insectivorous, swift-flying, swallowlike birds with long, stiff wings and a small, weak bill, as the chimney swift.
swift-Investment & Finance Definition. Stands for the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications, a bank-owned network for processing securities trades and transferring international messages. Corporations have limited access to the system through their banks. in a swift manner. 1  a cylinder in a carding machine. 2  an expanding reel used to hold skeins of silk, etc. that are being wound off. 3  any of a large family (Apodidae, order Apodiformes) of aerial-feeding, insectivorous, swift-flying, swallowlike birds with long, stiff wings and a small, weak bill, as the chimney swift.
A member-owned cooperative that provides safe and secure financial transactions for its members. Established in 1973, the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) uses a standardized proprietary communications platform to facilitate the transmission of information about financial transactions. 
Insightera. Founded in Brussels in 1973, the Society for the Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) is a co-operative organization dedicated to the promotion and development of standardized global interactivity for financial transactions. SWIFT's original mandate was to establish a global communications link for data processing and a common language for international financial transactions. The Society operates a messaging service for financial messages, such as letters of credit, payments, and securities transactions, between member banks worldwide. SWIFT's essential function is to deliver these messages quickly and securely -- both of which are prime considerations for financial matters. Member organizations create formatted messages that are then forwarded to SWIFT for delivery to the recipient member organization
swift. adj. 1. moving or able to move quickly; fast. 2. occurring or performed quickly or suddenly; instant: a swift response. 3. (foll by: to) prompt to act or respond: swift to take revenge. swift. 1. moving or capable of moving with great speed or velocity: a swift boat. 2. coming, happening, or performed quickly or without delay: a swift decision. 3. quick to act or respond.