Shares & Saves. Save. When you get gasoline on your skin, it evaporates, leaving behind a smelly, oily residue. Prolonged or repeated exposure may cause mild skin irritation. It's important not to place your hands near an open flame, such as a lighter or match, until the gas is completely off them. Although it may be a little difficult to get rid of the odor, you can do it using one or more techniques.
1 Work the soap into a lather all over your hands, scrubbing the skin under and around your nails as well. 2  If you still smell gasoline on your hands after washing them with soap, mix a few drops of vanilla extract with water and rub it into your hands to reduce or eliminate the smell.
Always rinse your hands thoroughly in cold running water. It is also possible to use rubbing alcohol or other alcohol-based hand cleansers as alcohol is an organic solvent that can help get rid of the oily gasoline residue that makes your hands smell after working on the car. VN:F [1.9.22_1171].
To get rid of pig smell that is on your hands after dissection,  wash your hands with vinegar, and then with soap. You can also wash  them with lemon juice instead of vinega … r.
1 Immediately after you notice the smell, wash your hands with lukewarm, soapy water to prevent skin irritation. 2  Use a gentle, nonabrasive dish-washing soap, hand soap or bath bar soap. 3  Work the soap into a lather all over your hands, scrubbing the skin under and around your nails as well.
Removing Gasoline Smell on Skin. Gas can get spilled on your hands when filling your auto or power equipment. It has a very strong odor.
1 Pour a small amount of distilled white vinegar into the palm of your hand and rub it into your skin for up to 45 seconds before washing it off with warm, soapy water. 2  Vinegar is nontoxic. 3  Create a gentle, odor-removing solution by combining one part baking soda with three parts water in a bowl.
White vinegar, lemon juice, dish detergent and salt, hand sanitizer, rubbing alcohol, baking soda paste, hydrogen peroxide and mechanic's soap can remove a gasoline smell from hands.