Read More. I would always take Diflucan. It is a pill that your doctor gives you and you take it once and it lasts up to seven days in your system. That has worked the best for me. Also they told me to eat yogurt when taking other antibiotics. I would always get a bladder infection that would turn into a yeast infection. once you are exposed, the smell does not disappear once you leave the area. For both me and my co-worker, it can remain in your system for up to 2 days before it completely disappears. Of course if you are continually exposed on a daily basis, you get no relief. It took me almost a year to figure this out.
diflucan. I think diflucan stays active in your body for 5 days. I have tried it many times but it wont take away my yeast infection. I have had a nonstop yeast infection for a long time. I am currently under a gyno's care but it still has not went away.
It will stay in your body for over a week. If you have taken only one dosage, then diflucan will stay in your system for about 30 hours to three to four days. It is difficult to state the exact time period, but that is how long it might take infection to clear up with a single dose if the infection is mild. Diflucan is used to treat fungal infections in the body. It will stop the fungi from reproducing. It also damages the fungal wall, and this proves fatal to the fungi. You can see the medicine working within one or two days. However, the prescribed length of time for the medication is 2 weeks.
Fluconazole is a very expensive drug. Taking fluconazole for a long period of time can lead to yeast infections (such as thrush, vaginitis, or severe candida infection of the throat, see Fact Sheet 501) that are resistant to fluconazole. These resistant infections can only be... 
All the pharmacies I called about the last antibiotic I had to take said that the medicine would be out of my system in 24 hours when I finished my last dose. On the packet, it says Fluconazole works for days inside your body ... so I wasn't sure. I think diflucan stays active in your body for 5 days. I have tried it many times but it wont take away my yeast infection. I have had a nonstop yeast infection for a long time. I am currently under a gyno's care but it still has not went away.
Around two weeks to a month. It all depends on how regularly you smoke, your metabolism/body type, and whether or not you drink vinegar or cranberry juice. If you were to smok … e marijuana every day for a month, it would take approximately one month for the THC to get out of your system. On the flip side, if you only smoked a few times and quit, it take around two weeks or so. Around 7-8 days. Darvocets will stay in your system anywhere from 3-7 d … ays after last use is discontinued. It depends on how much of it is contained in your metabolites in your body. Metabolites are usually excreted through bodily fluids.
Around two weeks to a month. It all depends on how regularly you smoke, your metabolism/body type, and whether or not you drink vinegar or cranberry juice. If you were to smok … e marijuana every day for a month, it would take approximately one month for the THC to get out of your system. On the flip side, if you only smoked a few times and quit, it take around two weeks or so. When you smoke marijuana, its active ingredient(THC) gets stored in your fat cells.