Composition. Brass is any alloy of copper and zinc. Bronze is a metal alloy consisting primarily of copper, usually with tin as the main additive, but sometimes with other elements such as phosphorus, manganese, aluminum, or silicon. Properties. While brass is an alloy of copper and zinc, bronze is an alloy consisting mainly of copper, combined most often with tin, but at times also with other metals.
Internal combustion engines rely on the specific properties of several metals. Each function of the engine requires the metal used to operate reliably. There has been several materials that are normally used for valve guides. C90500 is a member of the gear bronze family. These tin bronzes are all known for wear resistance and good thermal conductivity. High hardness does not always mean a metal is wear resistant. C90500 VALVE GUIDE BRONZE. Internal combustion engines rely on the specific properties of several metals. Each function of the engine requires the metal used to operate reliably. There has been several materials that are normally used for valve guides. Cast iron for small engines.
Exhaust valves may be made from a martensitic steel with chrome and silicon alloys, or a two-. piece valve with a stainless steel head and martensitic steel stem. On applications that have. higher heat requirements, a stainless martensitic alloy may be used. Because steel generally looks like, well, steel, an understanding of basic metallurgy might be helpful to understanding the materials used to produce engine valves. There are essentially two basic types of steel used to make valves. One is “martensitic” steel and the other is “austenitic” steel.
Valves are classified by type, design variations and function. Valves can also be classified by material, end connections and pressure-temperature ratings. The material classification generally refers to the valve body material such as bronze, iron, steel, stainless steel and plastic. The valve material and the line size will determine the type of end connection. The end connections refer to the ends of the valve body, which are connected to pipe ends. There are a number of different types of end connections available on today’s valves.
Bronze is an alloy of copper to which tin, zinc and lead are added to achieve particular physical properties. Historically, it was the first metal used in casting. It is a valve material that can be used for a wide range of applications. 
We receive materials for more than 40,000 types of valve products that we manufacture in our own foundry, which is fully equipped with cutting-edge automated production equipment to ensure high productivity and a constant supply of superior quality materials. Bronze. Bronze is an alloy of copper, tin, zinc and lead. Because of its good wear resistance, corrosion resistance and machinability, bronze is ideal for complex castings. It is also suitable for valves used in low/medium pressure service. Bronze (CAC401,CAC406). Bronze is an alloy of copper to which tin, zinc and lead are added to achieve particular physical properties. Historically, it was the first metal used for casting. Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc.
More B05.05 Standards Related Products Standard References. Abstract. This specification establishes requirements for a high-grade steam-metal or valve-bronze alloy (Copper Alloy UNS C92200) used for component castings of valves, flanges, and fittings. 
Brass and Bronze are metal alloys used extensively in everyday objects. While brass is an alloy of copper and zinc, bronze is an alloy consisting mainly of copper, combined most often with tin, but at times also with other metals. Owing to their properties, these two alloys have various uses. While brass is an alloy of copper and zinc, bronze is an alloy consisting mainly of copper, combined most often with tin, but at times also with other metal