An Irish name meaning little king. A person worthy of the name Ryan is indeed a person of true royalty. A handsome gentleman with a charming smile. Has the greatest respect for life and people, especially women. 
Meaning of Ryan. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Ryan means-Little king.. Other origins for the name Ryan include-Gaelic, Irish, Irish.The name Ryan is most often used as a boy name or male name. Gaelic Name Meaning-Little king. Origin-Gaelic.
Gaelic Meaning: The name Ryan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Ryan is: Little king. American Meaning: The name Ryan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ryan is: Little king. Irish Meaning: The name Ryan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Ryan is: Kingly. Famous Bearer: American actor Ryan O'Neal. 
Ryan is a given name in English, Persian, and Arabic languages. The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. Little king Ryan (Or Rayan) ar rayyan Is an arabic name. As well rayyan is An indirect quranic name. for boys The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. Little king Ryan (Or Rayan) ar rayyan Is an arabic name. as well
Ryan is a given name in English, Persian, and Arabic languages. The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. Little king Ryan (Or Rayan) ar rayyan Is an arabic name. as well
From an Irish surname which was derived from O ó riain meaning descendant Of. Rian rían the Given name rian rían probably (means Little king from irish ri rí king combined). with a diminutive suffix 
Ryan /ryan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less regularly as girls' name Ryan) is pronounced RYE-an. It is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Ryan is king. Also possibly (Gaelic) water. Actors Ryan O'Neal, Ryan Philippe; baseball player Ryne Sandberg. Kreatif forms: Riryan, Ryanney, Ryanri. 
Ryan /ryan/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used more widely as boys' name Ryan) is pronounced RY-ann. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Ryan is king. Cross-gender use of the surname, probably influenced by Rhiannon. Ryanna is also a male surname in East Africa that means a spoilt or favoured child. Actress Ryan Haddon.
Ryan is a given name in English, Persian, and Arabic languages. The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. little king The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. Little king Ryan (Or Rayan) ar rayyan Is an arabic name. as well
From the Irish surname O'Riain (descendant of Rian). Rian is an ancient Irish name believed to be a diminutive form of ri (rí): king, hence little.. King From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman 