A foot (one foot, two or more feet) is a body part on the end of a leg. We use it when walking, and it is important for balance: it helps us stand straight. We also use it to kick, in both fighting and sports, football being an example. People's hands and feet have the same shape: they both have five digits (the fingers and toes). Many other animals with backbones also have five digits. The part of the foot which joins it to the leg is called the heel. The bottom of the foot is called the sole. Half the bones in our body are in the foot. Doctors who work with people's feet are podiatrists or chiropodists
The heel is the prominence at the posterior end of the foot. It is based on the projection of one bone, the calcaneus or heel bone, behind the articulation of the bones of the lower leg. 
The foot itself can be divided into 3 parts: the hindfoot, the midfoot, and the forefoot. The hindfoot is composed of 2 of the 7 tarsal bones, the talus, and the calcaneus; the midfoot contains the rest of the tarsal bones; and the forefoot contains the metatarsals and the phalanges. 
It's called the sole of the foot. On the bottom there's the ball of your foot, your toes and your heel. its also known as the plantar fascia. 
A Dr. Christopher Chiodo, MD, Orthopedic Surgery, answered. Your foot consists of three main components: the forefoot (the toes and ball of your foot), the midfoot (the arch), and the hindfoot (the heel region). The underlying bone structure is intricate and complex. Five longer bones, known collectively as the metatarsals, lead to the toes. Hidden under the base of the big toe are bones called sesamoids, which work like pulleys, enhancing the function of muscles and tendons and increasing the strength of the big toe.
The metatarsals are the bones that make up the main part of the foot in humans, and part of the leg in large animals or paw in smaller animals. The number of metatarsals are directly related to the mode of locomotion with many larger animals having their digits reduced to two (elk, cow, sheep) or one (horse). It is the terminal portion of a limb which bears weight and allows locomotion. In many animals with feet, the foot is a separate organ at the terminal part of the leg made up of one or more segments or bones, generally including claws or nails.
The hindfoot is composed of three joints and links the midfoot to the ankle (talus). The top of the talus is connected to the two long bones of the lower leg (tibia and fibula), forming a hinge that allows the foot to move up and down. The heel bone (calcaneus) is the largest bone in the foot. 1 26 bones (One-quarter of the bones in the human body are in the feet.); 2  33 joints; 3  more than 100 muscles, tendons and ligaments (Tendons are fibrous tissues that connect muscles to bones and ligaments are fibrous tissues that connect bones to other bones.); and. 4  a network of blood vessels, nerves, skin, and soft tissue
Tibia and Fibula (Long Bones). Though the tibia (commonly called the shin bone) is not a part of the foot, it plays an important role. The foot is connected to the body where the bones of the foot and ankle meet the tibia and fibula (the small bone to the outside of the tibia). The tibia is also responsible for holding up 85% of the weight that presses down on the foot in the standing position. The side farthest from the ankle joint connects to each of the three cuneiform bones. Like the talus, the navicular has a poor blood supply. On the inner side (closest to the middle of the foot), there is a piece of bone that juts out, which is called the navicular tuberosity.