Optic neuritis facts. 1  Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, often affecting young adults in one eye. 2  Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 3  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 1 The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 2  The diagnosis is made on the basis of the patient history and an examination by an ophthalmologist.
Optic neuritis is an inflammation that affects the myelin lining of the optic nerve, which transmits visual stimuli to the brain. The optic nerve is actually a nerve tract of axons that originate in the ganglion cells of the retina. Nerve tracts are the information pathways in the brain. 1 The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 2  The diagnosis is made on the basis of the patient history and an examination by an ophthalmologist.
Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which your optic nerve (the nerve that carries visual information from your eye to your brain) becomes inflamed. Inflammation causes vision loss—although usually in only one eye. As you recover and the inflammation goes away, your vision may return. The three most common symptoms of optic neuritis are: 1  vision loss in one eye—can vary from mild to severe and progresses for seven to 10 days. 2  periocular pain (pain around the eye, often worsened by eye movements). 3  dyschromatopsia (disorder of color vision).
Optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve, caused by damage to and loss of the protective sheath (myelin) surrounding this nerve that is so vital for good vision. Demyelinating optic neuritis is another term for this eye condition. Vision symptoms from optic neuritis can include blurring and blind spots. 
1 Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 2  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 3  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 1 The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 2  The diagnosis is made on the basis of the patient history and an examination by an ophthalmologist.
Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which the nerve to the eye (the optic nerve) becomes inflamed or irritated. Inflammation refers to a process in which white blood cells and chemical messengers go to an area of the body to stimulate healing or to attack viruses or foreign material. Optic neuritis is a condition that can happen because of a disease or without any specific known cause.
When you have optic neuritis, the nerve that sends messages from your eye to your brain, called the optic nerve, is inflamed. Sometimes, it means the nerve loses the fatty coating that covers and protects it, called myelin. This can lead to sudden changes in your vision. Optic neuritis is one of the most common symptoms of the relapsing-remitting form of MS. But it can also happen with diseases such as diabetes or when you take some medications. All of these problems can cause inflammation that destroys the myelin around the optic nerve.
1 Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, often affecting young adults in one eye. 2  Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 3  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 1 The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 2  The diagnosis is made on the basis of the patient history and an examination by an ophthalmologist.
Optic nerve. Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, the bundle of nerve fibers that transmits visual information from your eye to your brain. Pain and temporary vision loss are common symptoms of optic neuritis. Optic neuritis is highly associated with multiple sclerosis, a disease that causes inflammation and damage to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. In some people, signs and symptoms of optic neuritis may be the first indication of multiple sclerosis.