The time interval of a gestation is called the gestation period. In human obstetrics, gestational age refers to the embryonic or fetal age plus two weeks. This is approximately the duration since the woman's last menstrual period (LMP) began. Human pregnancy can be divided roughly into three trimesters, each approximately three months long. The first trimester is from the last period to the 13th week, the second trimester is from the 14th to 27th week, and the third trimester is from the 28th week to the 42nd week.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Gestation is the act of an embryo or fetus developing within the body of a female host, usually the mother, in a viviparous animal, like a mammal. The gestation period in humans is equal to the amount of time spent in gestation, plus two weeks. In other animals, the period may or may not include an extra amount of time, depending on how it is calculated. For example, the average human gestation period is 38 weeks. Gestation may normally last anywhere from 37 to 42 weeks, however, and be considered well within the healthy range. Any child born before 37 weeks is considered preterm, and this can be accompanied by any number of health risks.
Gestation is the carrying of an embryo or fetus inside female viviparous animals. It is typical for mammals, but also occurs for some non-mammals. Mammals during pregnancy can have one or more gestations at the same time (multiple gestations). Human pregnancy can be divided roughly into three trimesters, each approximately three months long. The first trimester is from the last period to the 13th week, the second trimester is from the 14th to 27th week, and the third trimester is from the 28th week to the 42nd week.
Confidence votes 78.2K. There's more to farming than dirt, cows, and a pair of bib overalls. The gestation period is a scientific term for the length of time, from conception to birth, an embryo turned fetus remains in the womb of its mother. Gestation for a whitetailed deer is about 6 and 1/2 months or 200 days. Does can mate in their first year but usually not untill the second year. Does usually give birth to on … ly one fawn the first time. The second time around the doe can have twins-triplets and in rare occasions quintuplets
Pregnancy, also known as gravidity or gestation, is the time during which one or more offspring develops inside a woman. A multiple pregnancy involves more than one offspring, such as with twins. An embryo is the developing offspring during the first 8 weeks following conception, after which, the term fetus is used until birth. Symptom of early pregnancy may include a missed periods, tender breasts, nausea and vomiting, hunger, and frequent urination.
in a viviparous animal, the period from the fertilization of the ovum until birth. Gestation varies with the species. In humans the average duration is 266 days, or approximately 280 days from the onset of the last menstrual period. A gestation time of less than 37 weeks is regarded as premature; one that continues beyond 42 weeks is considered postmature, regardless of the size of the fetus or other factors. See also pregnancy. Pregnancy Reproduction medicine The period from fertilization to delivery/birth.
2. gestation-the state of being pregnant; the period from conception to birth when a woman carries a developing fetus in her uterus. maternity, pregnancy. fetal movement, foetal movement-motion of a fetus within the uterus (usually detected by the 16th week of pregnancy). Noun. 1. gestation-the period during which an embryo develops (about 266 days in humans). gestation period. biological time-the time of various biological processes. full term, term-the end of gestation or point at which birth is imminent; a healthy baby born at full term
The normal limits of the human gestation period are from 37 weeks (259 days) to 42 weeks (293 days); days and weeks are counted as completed days and weeks. If one counts from the moment of conception, the length of time is 266 days (280−14 days). A gestation time of less than 37 weeks is regarded as premature; one that continues beyond 42 weeks is considered postmature, regardless of the size of the fetus or other factors. See also pregnancy. Pregnancy Reproduction medicine The period from fertilization to delivery/birth.