Through the nephron tubule and nutrients are recovered by being reabsorbed from the filtrate into the blood capillaries that surround the tubule. Furthermore,some chemicals mighht be actively secreted from those blood capillaries directly into the filtrate in the tubule. 
1 - Know the order in which filtrate passes through the nephron and what components are reabsorbed in each area. - 2  Understand how concentration gradients and osmotic pressure differences between the cortex and medulla work to drive solutes and water out of the filtrate at specific places in the urinary system. 
Stage 1 of Urine Formation: GLOMERULAR FILTRATION. Glomerular filtration is a process in which water and some other substances in the blood plasma pass from the capillaries of the glomerulus into the Bowman's capsule. Very small molecules can pass through the filtration membrane into the Bowman's capsule. 1 As the fluid moves through the renal tubule it is called tubular fluid. 2  It is different form glomerular filtrate because of substances which are removed and added by the tubule cells. 3  Finally, when the fluid moves into the. 4  it is called urine.
Renal Vein-The blood vessel draining the kidney. Ureter-A duct leading from the kidney to the urinary bladder. Urethra-A tube that releases urine from the body near the vagina in females and through the penis in males; also serves in males as the exit tube for the reproductive system. Renal Cortex-The outer portion of the vertebrat
The two kidneys are only 0.4% of the body weight but receive about 25% of the blood. Their most important function in the body is to regulate the composition and volume of body fluids. Blood flows in and out of kidney leaving behind the 1% which becomes urine. The urine produced flows through ureters to the bladder and through urethra to outside world. The typical kidneys filter approximately 180 liters of plasma/day and each of the 3 liters of plasma gets filtered about 60 times. To replace this much water you would have to drink a 12 ounce soft drink every 3 minutes of the day; fortunately 99% of the filtrate gets reabsorbed, leaving 1.5-2 liters of urine per day. 
Distal Tubule-In the vertebrate kidney, the portion of a nephron that helps refine filtrate and empties it into a collecting duct. Collecting Duct-The location in the kidney where filtrate from renal tubules is collected; the filtrate is now called urine. Ureter-A duct leading from the kidney to the urinary bladder. Urethra-A tube that releases urine from the body near the vagina in females and through the penis in males; also serves in males as the exit tube for the reproductive system.
1 Paired ureters-transport urine from the kidneys to the bladder. 2  Urethra-transports urine from the bladder out of the body. 3  Kidney Location and Anatomy. 4  The bean-shaped kidneys lie in a retroperitoneal position in the superior lumbar region. 1 Urinary bladder-provides a temporary storage reservoir for urine. 2  Paired ureters-transport urine from the kidneys to the bladder. 3  Urethra-transports urine from the bladder out of the body. 4
The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column. The urethra is the tube through which urine passes from the bladder to the exterior of the body. The female urethra is around 2 inches long and ends inferior to the clitoris and superior to the vaginal opening. In males, the urethra is around 8 to 10 inches long and ends at the tip of the penis.
Urination is the process of releasing urine from the urinary bladder through the urethra and out of the body. The process of urination begins when the muscles of the urethral sphincters relax, allowing urine to pass through the urethra. The urethra is the tube through which urine passes from the bladder to the exterior of the body. The female urethra is around 2 inches long and ends inferior to the clitoris and superior to the vaginal opening. In males, the urethra is around 8 to 10 inches long and ends at the tip of the penis.