Generally, the prices of simple stair lift for straight stairs, on an average, start from $3000 to $4000. However, the prices of feature rich chairs and elaborate stairways can range more than $15,000. The cost involved in the purchase and installation of a chair lift for stairs is one of the most important factors influencing the household decision to purchase handicap stair lifts.
A typical, straight line chair lift will cost between $3,000 and $4,000, depending on power source and amenities. Installing a special stair lift, such as ones installed on a spiral stairway or 90 degree turn stairway, may increase the cost to as much as $12,000. These prices include installation; most companies will include installation as part of the price of the chair lift. Stair Lift Prices. A chairlift, otherwise known as a stair lift, is a safe way to move about your house for those with mobility trouble. If you or a loved one has trouble getting up and down the stairs without assistance then it may be time for you to buy a stair
1 The price depends on the capacity of the chair lift. 2  There are different models available and the features of each vary; this can be the largest factor that determines the price of the lift. 3  On average, a chair lift can cost anywhere from $1,500 to as much as $5,000. 1 There are different models available and the features of each vary; this can be the largest factor that determines the price of the lift. 2  On average, a chair lift can cost anywhere from $1,500 to as much as $5,000. 3  This would be for the product itself and would not include any sort of professional installation.
Prices for a simple stair lift for straight stairs often range between $3000 to $4000, but for more elaborate stairways and chairs, the price can be as much as $15,000 (or even more, in some cases). For this reason, you should carefully compare manufacturers, prices and features. 
The type you need will depend upon the design of your staircase. A straight stair lift is one that travels in a straight line up a flight of stairs uninterrupted by landings, bends or curves, and costs between $3,000 and $5,000 installed. Curved lifts, however, are much more elaborate and will go around corners, bends and changes in direction
1 A brand new chair lift can cost anywhere from $2,800 to $3,345. 2  Stair Lifts USA provides information and plenty of resources for chair lifts and other related products. 3  The site expects the customers to pay anywhere from $2,800 to $4,000 for either a refurbished or brand new chair lift. 1 There are different models available and the features of each vary; this can be the largest factor that determines the price of the lift. 2  On average, a chair lift can cost anywhere from $1,500 to as much as $5,000. 3  This would be for the product itself and would not include any sort of professional installation.
At one of our showrooms you’ll be able to see Stannah, Bruno and Acorn chair lifts on the stairs. To have a stair lift installed in your home for a straight flight of stairs you should budget between $2,500 to $6,000. Many homeowners choose a model in the $3,000 to $4,500 range. All prices quoted include permit and inspection (where required), full installation and warranty. There are never any hidden fees. Custom curved rail stair lift prices start around $10,000 for a basic stairway configuration. The final quoted price will then depend on the chair you select, total travel length of the rail and any optional features added to meet your specifications.
Post. Tweet. Comments (1). Also called a stairway lift, stairway elevator, stair glide, chair lift or stair chair, a stair lift is a motorized chair you sit it to glide up or down a staircase on a rail system for anyone who has difficulty or in unable to navigate stairs. 1 Most stair lifts are used indoors; outdoor models tend to be at the higher end of the price range. 2  Options include adjustable seat and footrest heights, folding seats and rests to save space, greater weight capacity (usually 300 pounds but can be 375-500 pounds) and a security lock to limit who can use the chair lift.