my name is sergei, as is my dad's, but he spells it sergiy. people pronounce both sir-gay. I curently live in California, I used to live in Canada-english not french, and people there pronounced it serge. I'm fine with both, it doesnt offend me, unless they say sir-gee or sir-ji - and it happens pretty often more then not.
Serge /ser-ge/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Serge's name origin is Latin, and the meaning of the name Serge is servant, attendant. Serge is a variant transcription of Sergio (Latin). Sorge is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Seage, Serjay, Serne.
The transliteration for the kana that make up his name in Japan is Seruju. I think this shows the correct pronunciation is Serge with an air in the middle. If it was Surge it would be Suruju and if it was Sergei it would be spelled Serujei. 
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: 
An Android app is available for download. Name: In the News: Pinky Thakkar (silent h), an engineer from Mumbai, started the Web site www.pronouncenames.com after she moved to San Jose, Calif., and mispronounced the J in San Jose, not giving it the H sound used in Spanish words ... Read More. Website Offers Help On Pronouncing Names.
Please try again later. Audio and video pronunciation of Serge brought to you by Pronounce Names (http://www.PronounceNames.com), a website dedicated to helping people pronounce names correctly. For more information about this name, such as gender, origin, etc., go to http://www.PronounceNames.com/Serge. 
Serge /ˈsɜrdʒ/ is a male given name, particularly common in French; alternatively Sergio sérgio In, Portuguese sergiu In, Romanian sergio In italian And, Spanish / Sergey sergei In. russian The name сергей was especially popular in Russia in the 1980s, when it was second only to Aleksandr. сергій (. Serhiy, Sergiy, Sergii or Serhii. [sɛrˈɦij]) is a male given name in Ukraine.
Serge /ˈsɜrdʒ/ is a male given name, particularly common in French; alternatively Sergio sérgio In, Portuguese sergiu In, Romanian sergio In italian And, Spanish / Sergey sergei In. Russian the less common female version Is. sergine The name сергей was especially popular in Russia in the 1980s, when it was second only to Aleksandr. сергій (. Serhiy, Sergiy, Sergii or Serhii. [sɛrˈɦij]) is a male given name in Ukraine.
The Armenian male given name սարգիս (Sarkis), is believed to have descended from Sergius, a variant of Serge. сергей (. Sergey or Sergei. [sʲɪrˈɡʲej]), is a male given name, very common in Russia because of the popularity of the Russian Orthodox saint Sergius of Radonezh. It is also used in Bulgaria. There is no corresponding female version of this name. The name сергей was especially popular in Russia in the 1980s, when it was second only to Aleksandr. сергій (. Serhiy, Sergiy, Sergii or Serhii. [sɛrˈɦij]) is a male given name in Ukraine.