Instructions. Remove the slat from the hook if it is out of alignment by taking a flat object like a credit card and pushing it up into the hook to release the slat. Pull the chain so that the carrier stem will line up all of the hooks. If a hook is not rotating, grab the individual hook and rotate it manually to line up with the rest of the hooks. An out-of-alignment hook is the most common reason why a vertical blind won't adjust. Reattach the slat by pushing the slat up into the newly aligned hook. Open and close the vertical blinds with the chain. Occasionally it does not adjust on its own or the vertical may be an older model and not include the self adjusting feature at all. When a vertical does not adjust, many times slats can pop off or the blind gets completely stuck or twisted and won't open.
Instructions. Pull up your blinds by grabbing hold of both pull strings (lift cord) and pulling straight down. Pull the lift cord to the right and release gently to lock the tension on the blinds in place. Let your blinds down by pulling the lift cord down and to the left. Pull the lift cord to the right again to lock the blinds in place. It is also possible to lift or let down just the right or the left side of your blinds. Try fixing blinds that are hanging unevenly by adjusting the tension on just one side. Grab one string of the lift cord in one hand and one string in the other hand. Pull straight down just one string at a time to pull up either side of the blinds
You will need to make marks on two things. One is your door/window frame or ceiling and the other is the valance. For marks on your door/window frame or ceiling, hold your valance up, centered over door or window and mark the width of your valance (Width Mark). To remove blind, release headrail by inserting a screwdriver between headrail and release tab. Outside Mount Mounted on a Vertical Surface (Wall, Window or Door Frame) Mark  Height  on wall at Louver Length + 2. Center headrail over window at Height mark.
TheCousinDan shows you how to repair and adjust window blinds that are out of order. When they don't line up and the slats aren't level watch this video....then subscibe! Please. 1  Howto & Style. 
During the life of your vertical blinds, if you find that the blinds are becoming increasingly difficult to function and operate, you can simply adjust the vertical blind chain to solve the problem. First, remove the end cap from the head rail. This can be accomplished with the use of a flathead screwdriver. Once you have found the pulley, tap lightly on the end of the rod to loosen the pulley. In order to loosen the vertical blind chain, find the vane carrier that is located within the head rail. Pull on the vane carrier firmly, and pull the extra cord with your free hand. This will adjust the length of the vertical blind chain. Once you have pulled it to the desired length, tie a knot in the cord. By tying the knot, the length of the cord will stay in the position that you desire. Then simply replace the end camp and you are ready to go!
00:09 five most common problems with vertical blinds. 00:13 one of the most common problems. 00:16 is simply a blind slat being out of step. 00:19 something as simple as this. 00:21 where it is just going to hang up. 00:22 and now your blinds are not going to turn and open up so first thing is your going to want to. 
How to Align Vertical Louvers. Sometimes vertical louvers can become out of alignment on your vertical blinds, a situation that causes the louvers to not close properly. When this happens, it is very simple to realign the louvers. 1  Take hold of the chain and pull to turn louvers to a closed position. 
Vane. Panel made of wood, fabric, or vinyl that hangs from a vertical blind headrail; vane is to a vertical blind as slat is to a horizontal blind. The table above is quick reference guide for DIYers. Knowing these common parts allows DIYers to easily follow the instructions on how to fix a vertical blind. 1 For Laserlite vertical blinds and similar types, cut or break the top of the carrier clip with a small pair of pliers, then push out the remainder of the clip at the bottom. 2  To restring a one-way track, cut the knot at the end of the existing cord and then tie a knot at the replacement cord.