Urinary incontinence is the involuntary leakage of urine; in simple terms, to wee when you don't intend to. It is the inability to hold urine in the bladder because voluntary control over the urinary sphincter is either lost or weakened. Urinary incontinence is a much more common problem than most people realize. In the United Kingdom it is estimated that at any one time at least 3 million people - 5% of the total population-suffer from urinary incontinence. Also known as reflex incontinence. This is the second most common type of urinary incontinence. The bladder is either unstable or overactive. There is a sudden, involuntary contraction of the muscular wall of the bladder (detrusor muscles) that causes urinary urgency-an urge to urinate that cannot be stopped.
Urinary incontinence (UI), also known as involuntary urination, is any leakage of urine. It is a common and distressing problem, which may have a large impact on quality of life. Urinary incontinence is often a result of an underlying medical condition but is under-reported to medical practitioners. 1 Enlarged prostate is the most common cause of incontinence in men after the age of 40; sometimes prostate cancer may also be associated with urinary incontinence. 2  Moreover drugs or radiation used to treat prostate cancer can also cause
Urinary incontinence is the accidental release of urine. It can happen when you cough, laugh, sneeze, or jog. Or you may have a sudden need to go to the bathroom but can't get there in time. Bladder control problems are very common, especially among older adults. Urge incontinence is caused by an overactive bladder muscle that pushes urine out of the bladder. It may be caused by irritation of the bladder, emotional stress, or brain conditions such as Parkinson's disease or stroke. Many times doctors don't know what causes it. 1 | 2 | 3.
Sarah may have a problem with bladder control called urinary incontinence (the accidental leakage of urine). While it may happen to anyone, urinary incontinence is more common in older people. Women are more likely than men to be incontinent. 1 Stress incontinence occurs when urine leaks as pressure is put on the bladder, for example, during exercise, coughing, sneezing, laughing, or lifting heavy objects. 2  It’s the most common type of bladder control problem in younger and middle-age women. 3  It may begin around the time of menopause.
If you have urinary incontinence it means that you pass urine when you do not mean to (an involuntary leakage of urine). It can range from a small dribble now and then, to large floods of urine. Incontinence may cause you distress as well as being a hygiene problem. The kidneys make urine continuously. 
Urinary incontinence is a loss of control of the bladder. In some cases, it may result in a total loss of the bladder’s contents or it may just cause minor leakage. The condition may be temporary or chronic, depending on its cause. Prostate cancer in men, or bladder cancer in men or women, can cause incontinence. In some cases, the cancer’s treatment will cause incontinence as a side effect. A tumor, whether malignant or benign, can also cause incontinence by blocking the usual flow of urine. Kidney or bladder stones can have the same effect.
Free helpline1800 33 00 66 Other languages. Incontinence is a term that describes any accidental or involuntary loss of urine from the bladder (urinary incontinence) or bowel motion, faeces or wind from the bowel (faecal or bowel incontinence). Incontinence is a widespread condition that ranges in severity from 'just a small leak' to complete loss of bladder or bowel control. In fact, over 4.8 million Australians have bladder or bowel control problems for a variety of reasons.
Incontinence can be a short-term problem caused by a urinary tract infection, a medicine, or constipation. It gets better when you treat the problem that is causing it. But this topic focuses on ongoing urinary incontinence. There are two main kinds of urinary incontinence. Some women-especially older women-have both. 1  Stress incontinence occurs when you sneeze, cough, laugh, jog, or do other things that put pressure on your bladder. 2  It is the most common type of bladder control problem in women. Urge incontinence is caused by an overactive bladder muscle that pushes urine out of the bladder. It may be caused by irritation of the bladder, emotional stress, or brain conditions such as Parkinson's disease or stroke. Many times doctors don't know what causes it. 1 | 2 | 3.