You can easily paint your own vehicle with spray paint cans. Even the cheap stuff. The trick is in the method. A car can be painted fully from top to bottom and even detailed for about $25. The example here takes an old 1991 Honda Accord that has been beat up pretty badly in its life.
Your truck should be sanded, smoothed, and masked off. Get your spray gun and put on your breathing mask. You are first going to paint a coat of primer onto your truck. Take your spray gun and make a few practice strokes on a test surface such as a scrap piece of metal, paper, or wood. You will want to know how to operate the gun before turning it on
First, a day with little or no wind for the painting. You can prep the car one day and then paint it the next as long as you do not expect any large amounts of dew or a rain storm overnight. The day of painting needs to have very little wind or you can have a mess. You can still paint, but it makes the job a lot harder.
Ready to spray. Shake it up. Stir it with a paint stick. Strain it with a strainer right in to the gun cup. Recommended tip size is 1.4. Spray several coats of lacquer primer waiting 5 minutes between each coat. Wait 20 minutes before wet sanding with 600 water sandpaper.
Take your time and spray on multiple, thin, even coats of paint. It is a good idea to use some dollar store paint and practice first on a flat piece of sheet metal until you are comfortable with painting the car itself.
With 3M™ Paint Defender Spray Film, enjoy peace of mind that your vehicle's paint is protected for a year. The Liquid spray dries to an invisible film that is safe for clear coat and removable when desired so that you can keep your car looking newer longer.
Nearly everyone in the U.S. has at least one can of spray paint in the cabinet. Spray paints are convenient and available in a virtually endless array of colors, but they have their disadvantages. Chief among those disadvantages is, for most people, the difficulty in obtaining a uniform, deep finish.