The polarization process always involves the use of a charged object to induce electron movement or electron rearrangement. In the above diagram and accompanying discussion, electrons within a conducting object were induced into moving from the left side of the conducting can to the right side of the can.
I know two laws for Polarization vector of a dielectric material $$\vec P = N q \vec{\Delta L}$$ Where $N$ is the number of dipoles per meter cube, $\vec{\Delta L}$ is the vector that represents the distance between the two charges of the dipole.
This is the 4th lesson in the series, Electrostatics.. This lesson explains how an electric force field affects uncharged objects within the field and illustrates how to draw a diagram to show how to charge an electroscope by induction.
When neutral objects become polarized, they are still neutral objects. The process of polarization is often used in many charging methods. In one section of Lesson 2, the charging by induction process will be discussed. This charging process depends upon a charged object to induce polarization within a neutral object.
Perhaps the biggest misconception that pertains to polarization is the belief that polarization involves the charging of an object. Polarization is not charging! When an object becomes polarized, there is simply a redistribution of the centers of positive and negative charges within the object.
Polarization density also describes how a material responds to an applied electric field as well as the way the material changes the electric field, and can be used to calculate the forces that result from those interactions.
Polarization can be constant -- that is, existing in a particular orientation at all times, or it can rotate with each wave cycle. Polarization is important in wireless communications systems.
Polarization, also called wave polarization, is an expression of the orientation of the lines of electric flux in an electromagnetic field (EM field).
(Redirected from Polarization (electrostatics)). In classical electromagnetism, polarization density (or electric polarization, or simply polarization) is the vector field that expresses the density of permanent or induced electric dipole moments in a dielectric material.