Rates. A ratio is a comparison of two numbers or measurements. The numbers or measurements being compared are called the terms of the ratio. A rate is a special ratio in which the two terms are in different units. For example, if a 12-ounce can of corn costs 69, the rate is 69 for 12 ounces. The first term of the ratio is measured in cents; the second term in ounces. You can write this rate as 69 /12 ounces or 69 :12 ounce
rate 1. 1. To make a judgment as to the worth or value of: appraise, assay, assess, calculate, estimate, evaluate, gauge, judge, size up, valuate, value. Idiom: take the measure of. 
Guide. Your pulse is the rate at which your heart beats. Your pulse is usually called your heart rate, which is the number of times your heart beats each minute (bpm). But the rhythm and strength of the heartbeat can also be noted, as well as whether the blood vessel feels hard or soft. 
The ratio is the relationship of two numbers. For example you have 2 flashlights and 5 batteries. To compare the ratio between the flashlights and the batteries we divide the set of flashlights with the set of batteries. The ratio is 2 to 5 or 2:5 or 2/5. All these describe the ratio in different forms of fractions. The ratio can consequently be expressed as fractions or as a decimal. 2:5 in decimals is 0.4. A rate is a little bit different than the ratio, it is a special ratio.
In mathematics, a rate is the ratio between two related quantities. Often it is a rate of change. If the unit or quantity in respect of which something is changing is not specified, usually the rate is per unit time. However, a rate of change can be specified per unit time, or per unit of length or mass or another quantity. The most common type of rate is per unit time, such as speed, heart rate and flux. Ratios that have a non-time denominator include exchange rates, literacy rates and electric flux. In describing the units of a rate, the word per is used to separate the units of the two measurements used to calculate the rate (for example a heart rate is expressed beats per minute).
Interest rates are typically noted on an annual basis, known as the annual percentage rate (APR). The assets borrowed could include, cash, consumer goods, large assets, such as a vehicle or building. Interest is essentially a rental, or leasing charge to the borrower, for the asset's use. 
Rate is a ratio that compares two quantities of different units. Unit Rate: Unit rate is a rate in which the second term is 1. For example, Jake types 10 words in 5 seconds. Jake's unit rate is the number of words he can type in a second. His unit rate is 2 words per second. More About Rate. Unit Rate: Unit rate is a rate in which the second term is 1. For example, Jake types 10 words in 5 seconds. Jake's unit rate is the number of words he can type in a second. His unit rate is 2 words per second.
Unit Rate is the ratio of two measurements in which the second term is 1. 1 Step 1: Unit rate is a ratio of different units of measurement with the second term being equal to 1. 2  Step 2: So, Unit Rate = toys/hours =60/40. 3  Step 3: = [Divide both the numerator and the denominator by the denominator.].
Calculate the loan rate on a loan using the purchase price, down payment amount, payment amount, and loan term. Add this personal financing calculator to your site to keep your customers coming back. This loan rate calculator will integrate right into your existing website automatically. 