If you are missing one or more of your natural teeth and are seeking the most effective and stable method of restoring your oral health, please contact our Long Island practice to learn more about dental implants today. If you are missing one or more of your natural teeth, there is a good chance that you are a suitable candidate for dental implants. At Smiles on Broadway, we gladly accept cases that other practices might find too complex.
Dr. Eric Weinstein, DDS explains how dental implants are easier to afford than you may think. Cost of Dental Implants on Long Island. Hi, it's Dr. Eric Weinstein from Shine Dental Associates of the North Shore, located at 400 Jericho Turnpike in Syosset. 
Dental implant-supported crowns and dentures are the ideal, permanent solution to missing teeth or ill-fitting dental work, allowing you to eat, speak, and laugh without worrying about your teeth. Dental implants cost is something our Long Island practice can help you understand if you are considering this solution. We can also help you to understand the vast benefits of dental implants, which many patients find to be well worth the cost. In fact, there is really no price to be placed on the increased quality of life found in greater social confidence and the freedom to enjoy one of life's simplest pleasures: delicious food. Greater Long Island Dental patients regularly report implant-supported dental restorations to be worth every penny-and more.
Financing Arrangements. Many people with missing teeth are candidates for dental implants, and the dentists at Greater Long Island Dentistry want you to have the option of implant-retained dentures, bridges and porcelain crowns. In fact, there is really no price to be placed on the increased quality of life found in greater social confidence and the freedom to enjoy one of life's simplest pleasures: delicious food. Greater Long Island Dental patients regularly report implant-supported dental restorations to be worth every penny-and more.
The dental implant market is believed to reach $5 billion by 2018. Here in Rocky Point, Long Island Implant and Cosmetic Dentistry provides world-class service, including same day implants, at a price you can afford. Our prices are well below the national averages. Here’s how: Long Island Implant and Cosmetic Dentistry provides top-caliber dental implants at an affordable, low cost to pour patients because our doctors have been trained in all relevant aspects of cosmetic dentistry, g eneral dentistry and oral surgery.
Dental Implants-Nassau County-Implant Dentistry. A dental implant is a small titanium screw that serves as the replacement for the root portion of a missing natural tooth. Dental implants can be placed in either the upper or lower jaws. Due to the biocompatible properties of titanium, a dental implant fuses with the bone and becomes a good anchor for the replacement tooth. Dental implants can be used in solutions for replacing single or multiple missing tee
Low cost dental implants in Long Island. According to Money Magazine, dental implants cost is a serious deterrent, with some practitioners charging $3,000 to $4,500 for a single tooth. Our prices are well below the national averages. Here’s how: Long Island Implant and Cosmetic Dentistry provides top-caliber dental implants at an affordable, low cost to pour patients because our doctors have been trained in all relevant aspects of cosmetic dentistry, g eneral dentistry and oral surgery.
The Surgical Procedure. For most patients, the placement of dental implants involves two surgical procedures. First, implants are placed within your jawbone. For the first three to six months following surgery, the implants are beneath the surface of the gums gradually bonding with the jawbone. You should be able to wear temporary dentures and eat a soft diet during this time. At the same time, your dentist is forming new replacement teeth. There are even situations where the implants can be placed at the same time as a tooth extraction – further minimizing the number of surgical procedures. Dental Implant placement is a team effort between an oral and maxillofacial surgeon and a restorative dentist.
If you are missing one or more of your natural teeth, don't despair; through the miracle of implant dentistry, you can once again have a flawless smile filled with healthy teeth. If you would like to learn more about dental implants, we urge you to contact our Long Island dental practice today. If you are missing one or more of your natural teeth, there is a good chance that you are a suitable candidate for dental implants. At Smiles on Broadway, we gladly accept cases that other practices might find too complex.
Long Island Implant and Cosmetic Dentistry offers Long Island residents the latest dental implants at low cost in just one day! More than 30 million Americans are missing all their teeth in one or both jaws. Our prices are well below the national averages. Here’s how: Long Island Implant and Cosmetic Dentistry provides top-caliber dental implants at an affordable, low cost to pour patients because our doctors have been trained in all relevant aspects of cosmetic dentistry, g eneral dentistry and oral surgery.