Each glomerulus-and-tubule unit is called a nephron. Each kidney is composed of about 1 million nephrons. In healthy nephrons, the glomerular membrane that separates the blood vessel from the tubule allows waste products and extra water to pass into the tubule while keeping blood cells and protein in the bloodstream. The signs and symptoms of glomerular disease include. 1  proteinuria: large amounts of protein in the urine. 2  hematuria: blood in the urine. 3  reduced glomerular filtration rate: inefficient filtering of wastes from the blood.
The Bowman's capsule is composed of two layers of cells: an inner layer that closely covers the glomerulus, and an outer layer that is continuous with the inner layer and with the wall of the renal tubule. The renal tubule ... Click to read more below. The Bowman's capsule is an expansion at the closed end of a renal tubule. A kidney's renal corpuscle is composed of tangled clusters of blood capillaries, called a glomerulus, and a thin-walled, saclike structure called the Bowman's capsule, which surrounds the glomerulus. 
Glomerular Filtration. The first step in renal processing involves the filtration of plasma in the glomerulus. Glomerular filtration is a process of bulk flow: water and low molecular weight substances move from the lumen of the capillary, across the filtration membrane, and into Bowman s space. This includes various polar organic molecules such as glucose or amino acids, ions, peptides, drugs, and waste products of organic metabolism such as creatinine and urea. Because filtration involves bulk flow, the concentration of a substance in Bowman s space will be the same as its concentration in the plasma.
The signs and symptoms of glomerular disease include. 1  proteinuria: large amounts of protein in the urine. 2  hematuria: blood in the urine. 3  reduced glomerular filtration rate: inefficient filtering of wastes from the blood. 4  hypoproteinemia: low blood protein. 5  edema: swelling in parts of the body. Blood enters the kidneys through arteries that branch inside the kidneys into tiny clusters of looping blood vessels. Each cluster is called a glomerulus, which comes from the Greek word meaning filter. The plural form of the word is glomeruli. There are approximately 1 million glomeruli, or filters, in each kidney.
Blood is filtered in the glomerulus, and extra water and wastes pass into the tubule and become urine. Eventually, the urine drains from the kidneys into the bladder through larger tubes called ureters. Each glomerulus-and-tubule unit is called a nephron. Blood enters the kidneys through arteries that branch inside the kidneys into tiny clusters of looping blood vessels. Each cluster is called a glomerulus, which comes from the Greek word meaning filter. The plural form of the word is glomeruli. There are approximately 1 million glomeruli, or filters, in each kidney.
Glomerulus /ɡlɒˈmɛrələs/ is a common term used in anatomy to describe globular structures of entwined vessels, fibers, or neurons. Glomerulus is the diminutive of the Latin glomus, meaning ball of yarn. Glomerulus may refer to: 1  the filtering unit of the kidney; see Glomerulus (kidney) . 2  the structure in the olfactory bulb; see Glomerulus (olfaction) . 3  the contact between specific cells in the cerebellum; see Glomerulus (cerebellum) .
(June 2011). Bowman's capsule (or the Bowman capsule, capsula glomeruli, or glomerular capsule) is a cup-like sac at the beginning of the tubular component of a nephron in the mammalian kidney that performs the first step in the filtration of blood to form urine. 1 Bowman's space (or urinary space, or capsular space) —Between the visceral and parietal layers, into which the filtrate enters after passing through the filtration slits. 2  Visceral layer —Lies just above the thickened glomerular basement membrane and is made of podocytes.
A glomerulus is enclosed in the sac. Fluids from blood in the glomerulus are collected in the Bowman's capsule (i.e., glomerular filtrate) and further processed along the nephron to form urine. This process is known as ultrafiltration. 1 Bowman's space (or urinary space, or capsular space) —Between the visceral and parietal layers, into which the filtrate enters after passing through the filtration slits. 2  Visceral layer —Lies just above the thickened glomerular basement membrane and is made of podocytes.
The two basic types of glomerular disease include nephritic and nephrotic, but with some diseases, the two types can overlap. (See Differential diagnosis and evaluation of glomerular disease .). Nephritic — The key feature of nephritic disease is blood in the urine (hematuria). 