The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window.
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle.
Tracking Ovulation: A woman’s monthly cycle is measured from the first day of her menstrual period until the first day of her next period. On average, a woman’s cycle normally is between 28-32 days, but some women may have much shorter or much longer cycles. Ovulation can be calculated by starting with the first day of the last menstrual period (LMP) or by calculating 12-16 days from the next expected period. Most women ovulate anywhere between Day 11 – Day 21 of their cycle, counting from the first day of the LMP.
The second half of the cycle is called the luteal phase and is from the day of ovulation until the next period begins. The luteal phase has a more precise timeline and usually is only 12-16 days from the day of ovulation. This ultimately means that the day of ovulation will determine how long your cycle is. Ovulation can be calculated by starting with the first day of the last menstrual period (LMP) or by calculating 12-16 days from the next expected period. Most women ovulate anywhere between Day 11 – Day 21 of their cycle, counting from the first day of the LMP.
Ovulation calculator. Our ovulation calculator will tell you when you’re most likely to be fertile over the next six months. To increase your chances of getting pregnant, just tell us the first day of your last period and how long your cycle usually lasts (between 20 and 45 days). 
The average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days. But normal cycles can vary from 21 to 35 days. The amount of time before ovulation occurs is different in every woman and even can be different from month to month in the same woman, varying from 13 to 20 days long. 
The first step is to learn the days when you’re most fertile. A woman with a 28-day menstrual cycle, for example, has about 6 days each month when she can conceive – the day one of her ovaries releases an egg, called ovulation, and the 5 days before. Timing sex within that window is key. To figure it out, start charting your menstrual cycle and recording how long it lasts. Day 1 is the first day of your period. Since the length of your cycle can vary slightly from month to month, it’s best to keep track for a few months.
For most women, the length of time between ovulation (when an egg is released from the ovary) and their monthly period is between 12 to 16 days (this is called the luteal phase). The first day of your menstrual cycle is the first day of your period (day 1). The period usually then lasts anything from 3 to 7 days. You’ll probably find that if you get any period pains, they’ll be at their worst in the first few days of your period.
Menstrual Cycles. The average menstrual cycle is 28 to 32 days. Some women have longer or shorter cycles, so the exact timing of ovulation can vary. Here's an overview of a typical 28-day menstrual cycle