Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Precipitate is a solid formed in a chemical reaction of 2 solutions. The barium in the Barium Chloride reacts with the Sulphur in the Sodium Sulphate to create a white powder called Barium Sulphate which sinks to the bottom of the liquid. Here's a picture: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/co...
Let's hope there's no strychnine in it! Precipitates can form when two soluble salts react in solution to form one or more insoluble products-as discussed in the famous example below. The insoluble product separates from the liquid and is called a precipitate. Precipitates can also form when the temperature of a solution is lowered.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Precipitate Definition: to form an insoluble compound either by reacting two salts or by changing the temperature to affect the solubility of the compound. Also the name given to the solid that is formed as a result of a precipitation reaction. Example: Mixing silver nitrate and sodium chloride in water will cause silver chloride to precipitate out of solution as a solid. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index
A precipitate is an insoluble solid that emerges from a liquid solution. The emergence of the insoluble solid from solution is called precipitation. Often the precipitate emerges as a suspension. Precipitates can form when two soluble salts react in solution to form one or more insoluble products-as discussed in the famous example below. The insoluble product separates from the liquid and is called a precipitate. Precipitates can also form when the temperature of a solution is lowered
Precipitation is rain, snow, sleet, hail, or any other water that falls from the sky. In meteorology, precipitation (also known as one of the classes of hydrometeors, which … are atmospheric water phenomena) is any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapor that is deposited on the Earth's surface. In Chemistry, a precipitate is a solid formed in a solution.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A precipitate forms when the product of a chemical reaction is insoluble in the solvent being used. It will make the solution cloudy or if it is heavy will form a sludge inthe bottom of the reaction vessel. During chemical reactions, precipitation may also occur particularly if an insoluble substance is introduced into a solution and the density happens to be greater (otherwise the precipitate would float or form a suspension). Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precipitati... jm · 5 years ago.
Precipitation is the formation of a solid in a solution or inside another solid during a chemical reaction or by diffusion in a solid. During chemical reactions, precipitation may also occur particularly if an insoluble substance is introduced into a solution and the density happens to be greater (otherwise the precipitate would float or form a suspension). Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precipitati... jm · 5 years ago.
· just now. Report Abuse. Precipitation is the formation of a solid in a solution or inside another solid during a chemical reaction or by diffusion in a solid. When the reaction occurs in a liquid, the solid formed is called the precipitate, and the liquid remaining above the solid is called the supernate. Powders derived from precipitation have also historically been known as flowers. Source(s): wiki. GreenApple · 6 years ago