Batman Arkham Knight-Heir to the Cowl Side Mission Walkthrough (Azrael Symbol Locations). Added By ADDZ, 26 June 2015 - 02:51 PM (418 Views). Heir to the Cowl is a Most Wanted Side Mission in Batman Arkham Knight. You must find 4 of Azrael's burning bat symbols on rooftops and play combat challenges with him. Completing this mission unlocks the Angel in the Dark trophy / achievement. Play through the main story to get access to this side quest.
Take on all four Combat Trials using Azrael, then put your detective skills to use with this complete guide to the Heir to the Cowl side mission in Batman: Arkham Knight.
Now, it's time to turn our attention to Azrael, the antagonist-turned-ally who hopes to one day succeed Batman as the savior of Gotham City. In Batman: Arkham Knight, you'll need to meet up with Azrael in five different locations, each marked by a flaming bat symbol.
In a side mission in Batman Arkham Knight, you can play as Azrael. When you are going through Batman's tests, Azrael moves exactly as Batman does. Alfred points this out to Batman, saying that this is probably a result of Azrael watching him so carefully in Arkham City.
Heir to the Cowl is a Most Wanted Side Mission in Batman Arkham Knight. You must find 4 of Azrael's burning bat symbols on rooftops and play combat challenges with him. Completing this mission unlocks the Angel in the Dark trophy / achievement. Play through the main story to get access to this side quest.
guide. Take on all four Combat Trials using Azrael, then put your detective skills to use with this complete guide to the Heir to the Cowl side mission in Batman: Arkham Knight. After Chapter 3 Batman receives reports of a suspicious man on a rooftop with a burning bat symbol.
Heir to the Cowl is a Most Wanted Side Mission in Batman Arkham Knight. You must find 4 of Azrael's burning bat symbols on rooftops and play combat challenges with him. Completing this mission unlocks the Angel in the Dark trophy or achievement. Play through the main story to get access to this side quest.