Welcome to our community! This site is brought to you by the Banyo District Community Group, representing the communities of Banyo, Nudgee, and Nudgee Beach. The purpose of the Group is to improve community resilience and cohesion by embracing cultural diversity and the conduct of communal social, cultural, and sporting activities. 4th JUNE 2016 - Banyo Queensland Day Celebrations. Please see our events page for more details of future meetings and other upcoming local events. Most importantly, this is a community resource for you to use, so please contact us to discuss how we can help promote your group, business, event, or news.
Man caught on mall security cam crapping in plant pot. Man caught on mall security cam crapping in plant pot then the guy just stands there for a minute. Loading the player ... 
The median/average age of the Banyo population is 36 years of age, 1 year below the Australian average. 71.5% of people living in Banyo were born in Australia. The other top responses for country of birth were New Zealand 5.7%, India 3.8%, England 2.3%, Philippines 1.3%, China 1.2%. 82.1% of people speak English as their first language 2.6% Punjabi, 1.2% Mandarin, 0.9% Hindi, 0.7% Tongan, 0.7% Vietnamese. Banyo Station has recently undergone an upgrade. The upgrade included restoring the 100-year-old station building, toilet upgrade, new and improved station furniture and signage, fresh painting and station cleaning.
Banyo. Banyo, a residential and industrial suburb, is situated between Nundah Creek and the Kedron Brook floodway, 12 km north-east of central Brisbane. During the early settlement period Banyo was part of the Nudgee area, and the former Nudgee State primary school (1928) is in Banyo. It is thought that the name Banyo was an Aboriginal expression describing a rising slope known as Beehive Hill, part of the site chosen for the Pius XII seminary, now the Australian Catholic University (2003) and St Paul's Theological College.
Brisbane. The Brisbane Campus (McAuley at Banyo) has more than 5,200 students, including over 400 international students. The campus is 12km north of the Brisbane Central Business District (CBD) and is close to the Brisbane International Airport. Find out more about both Brisbane and our campus through the links in the menu.
Banyo is a northern suburb of the City of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. It is a community split between residential and industrial land usage, the latter being attracted by the accessibility of local transport, including the Gateway Motorway. Banyo Station has recently undergone an upgrade. The upgrade included restoring the 100-year-old station building, toilet upgrade, new and improved station furniture and signage, fresh painting and station cleaning.