1 To maximize the shelf life of leftover mashed potatoes and other cooked potatoes, refrigerate in covered airtight containers or wrap tightly with heavy-duty aluminum foil or plastic wrap. 2  To further extend the shelf life of mashed potatoes, freeze them; freeze in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags. 
1 Peel & cut the sweet potatoes then mix with a little olive oil and a sprinkle of any or all of these: sugar, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg or pumpkin pie spice. 2  Place on lightly sprayed pan in a hot 450°F oven for about 20 minutes. 1 Make sweet potato fries. 2  Peel & cut the sweet potatoes then mix with a little olive oil and a sprinkle of any or all of these: sugar, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg or pumpkin pie spice. 3
The shelf life of potatoes depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method, how the potatoes were stored, and the humidity of your climate. Of course, all foods last for a shorter period of time if they are not stored properly. But remember, potatoes, unlike a lot of other fresh vegetables, may have a sell by date if they are sold in a plastic bag. This is the last day they may be sold, not consumed.
1 To maximize the shelf life of potatoes, do not store potatoes near onions, as the chemical reaction will speed the spoilage of both; store potatoes in a loosely covered bag or basket to allow for air circulation. 1 You can keep cut potatoes in the fridge as follows: Cover the cut, raw potatoes completely with cold water and refrigerate; use the cut potatoes within 24 hours. 2  Can you freeze raw potatoes? 3  Raw potatoes do not freeze well; to further extend the shelf life of potatoes, cook them first before freezing.
Cure your potatoes for long-term storage. If you want your potatoes to last even longer, try the technique described below. This is also a good choice for potatoes with minor damage that would otherwise be vulnerable to rot — cured potatoes will usually have minor cuts and bruises heal up. Compared to most other vegetables, potatoes store fantastically. With the right storage techniques, good potatoes can last several months. Knowing the ins and outs of proper potato storage is essential for getting the most value out of your vegetables, whether you buy them at the supermarket or grow them yourself.
Potatoes are best stored in a cool dark place. Ideally, potatoes should be stored in a cellar, where they can remain for several months at a temperature of 45°F to 50°F. Keeping them at a higher temperature will cause them to shrink and sprout, especially if there is also low humidity. Of course, all foods last for a shorter period of time if they are not stored properly. But remember, potatoes, unlike a lot of other fresh vegetables, may have a sell by date if they are sold in a plastic bag. This is the last day they may be sold, not consumed.
Store potatoes in a cool dry place. They will keep at room temperature for up to two weeks and longer when stored in cool temperatures. If potatoes are purchased in a plastic bag, remove them from the bag and place in a basket or other such type of a container so that they will have proper air circulation. For tender skins leave them uncoated. Bake for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, until potatoes are tender when poked with a fork. Time will vary depending on the size of the potatoes. If baking with other food that requires baking at 350°F, increase cooking time 15 to 20 minutes for
Best Answer: Potatoes stay good for quite a long time compared to all other veggies. Potatoes are actually bulbs, if panted in the ground and watered they will start to grow again. (fun science for elementary students) They will keep good for a while(3weeks-5weeks) in a dark, cool, dry place. I was wondering how long they actually stay good for, and what are... show more When I was younger my mom used to buy the big bag of potatoes, and they used to stay under the cabinet for quite some time, and sometimes they would get these little buds on them.
1 Peel, cut and boil your sweet potatoes until soft. 2  Combine 1/2C brown sugar, 1/4C coconut, 1/4C finely chopped pecans, 3T melted butter and a dash of cinnamon and layer this mixture on top of the smashed sweet potatoes in a buttered casserole dish. 3  Bake at 350°F for about 30 minutes. 1 Make sweet potato fries. 2  Peel & cut the sweet potatoes then mix with a little olive oil and a sprinkle of any or all of these: sugar, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg or pumpkin pie spice. 3  Place on lightly sprayed pan in a hot 450°F oven for about 20 minutes.
Many potatoes mature within 80 to 120 days after planting, depending on cultivar and conditions. For new potatoes (usually about an inch or so--or 2.5 cm--in diameter), a general guideline is to harvest them when the plant is in bloom. 1 If you are cutting up potato pieces for planting, do so a 1-2 days ahead of time. 2  This will give them the chance to form a protective layer, both for moisture retention and rot resistance. 3  You may start planting earlier, as soon as soil can be worked, but be aware that some crops will be ruined by a frost.