If you are concerned and applying with a low GPA, it could be worth your while to consider the following two options: 1. Time off: The average age of entering medical students is now 24, with a considerable number of students applying later. Not only do medical schools appreciate mature applicants who learned from their mistakes, but if you take time off you will have more time to prepare a more competitive application. A lower than average GPA doesn’t preclude attending medical school, but does raise challenges. By Veritas Prep. + More. Strong GPAs, MCAT scores, and admissions essays are crucial for getting into medical school. However, sometimes life can throw unexpected roadblocks in your way.
If both MCAT and GPA are lower, admission to medical school becomes much harder. However, having said that, there is more to the overall application than the MCAT and GPA alone. An otherwise stellar application can also overcome a lower GPA and MCAT score – to a point. The 3.0 GPA is a cutoff for most medical schools. However, some applicants are accepted every year that have a lower GPA, so this value is by no means absolute. Again, it all depends on the strength of the overall application…and the MCAT score. For example, for the 2005 school year, 155 applicants were accepted to allopathic medical schools (out of 17,978 total accepted that year) with a GPA that was lower than a 2.75. 
My daughter goes to school where it is very hard to get A. She is 4th year student and finally got A-last year. She has around 3.40 GPA, which is considered average for those students applying to medical school. The school has statistics that say if have B+ average then have 80% chance of getting accepted in medical school. Unfortunately, courses that are taken as part of International Program aren’t included in the GPA. While we’ve tackled the question of how many people get into medical school, we turn our attention today to the average GPA for medical school. It’s stressful to think that a few bad grades in your undergraduate career can impact your chances of getting in medical school. A low GPA or low MCAT score can be overcome!
Getting into medical school is difficult, and applicants are frequently rejected because their grades are not high enough. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, the average GPA of an applicant who matriculated at a medical school was 3.68 in 2012, close to an A-minus average. This puts a lot of pressure on medical school hopefuls because it is a challenge to do that well every semester. 
 The average GPA of entering medical students was 3.64 on a 4.0 scale.  The average total score on the MCAT was 34 (for the MS program in Clinical and Biomedical Investigations, MCAT scores may be substituted for the GREs).  Average total MCAT score was 32.  University of California, Los Angeles David Geffen School of Medicine http://dgsom.healthsciences.ucla.edu/dgsom/education/pages/mep  For 2013, there were 8,107 applicants and 151 admitted students.  The average GPA of entering medical students was a 3.78 on a 4.0 scale.
 For 2013, there were 7,752 applicants and 184 admitted students.  The average GPA of entering medical students was 3.64 on a 4.0 scale.  The average total score on the MCAT was 34 (for the MS program in Clinical and. Biomedical Investigations, MCAT scores may be substituted for the GREs).  Average total MCAT score was 32.  University of California, Los Angeles David Geffen School of Medicine http://dgsom.healthsciences.ucla.edu/dgsom/education/pages/mep  For 2013, there were 8,107 applicants and 151 admitted students.  The average GPA of entering medical students was a 3.78 on a 4.0 scale.
The average GPA of students admitted to Harvard Medical School is 3.93. It will undoubtedly be more difficult to gain admission into schools with high average admitted GPA scores. Be realistic in your expectations and apply to schools accordingly. Medical School Size. There are 709 students currently enrolled at Harvard Medical School, which is roughly 27% more than the average for all Medical Schools. 167 new students matriculated in the most recent first-year medical school class.
Because of this, the most important factors for getting into medical school are your GPA and MCAT scores. To be in a realistic position, you should be in line with the average MCAT scores and GPA for other matriculants, which is about a 3.6 GPA and 30 MCAT. 
Maybe at some schools. See the tables in “Using MCAT Data in Medical Student Selection” from AAAMC. 65% of applicants with MCAT 27-29 are accepted with GPA 3.8-4.0. Refer to the MSAR (from AAMC) for school-specific information. ​​​​​​The table below illustrates the combination of overall undergraduate AMCAS GPA and MCAT scores of UW Medical School applicants (from the WWAMI states, including MSTP WWAMI) that were accepted (green) and not accepted (red) in the last academic year.