The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the level of urea nitrogen in a sample of the patient's blood. Urea is a substance that is formed in the liver when the body breaks down protein. 
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of nitrogen in your blood that comes from the waste product urea. Urea is made when protein is broken down in your body. Urea is made in the liver and passed out of your body in the urine. A BUN test is done to see how well your kidneys are working. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test is done to: 1  See if your kidneys are working normally. 2  See if your kidney disease is getting worse. 3  See if treatment of your kidney disease is working. 4  Check for severe dehydration.
Blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ratio (BUN:creatinine). A BUN test may be done with a blood creatinine test. The level of creatinine in your blood also tells how well your kidneys are working-a high creatinine level may mean your kidneys are not working properly. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test is done to: 1  See if your kidneys are working normally. 2  See if your kidney disease is getting worse. 3  See if treatment of your kidney disease is working. 4  Check for severe dehydration.
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test checks kidney function by measuring how much urea nitrogen is in your blood. Urea nitrogen is a waste product from the breakdown of protein in the body. Normally, this waste is filtered by the kidneys and leaves the body through urine. Too much or too little urea nitrogen in the blood could signify kidney problems. The BUN test is frequently done along with other tests to diagnose or monitor kidney diseases. This test can also show whether your current kidney treatments are working. Test results may also indicate liver or urinary tract issues
Urea is a waste product formed in the liver when protein is metabolized. Urea is released by the liver into the blood and is carried to the kidneys, where it is filtered out of the blood and released into the urine. Since this is an ongoing process, there is usually a small but stable amount of urea nitrogen in the blood.
Blood Urea Nitrogen test is used to measure the levels of nitrogen in the blood which comes from urea. This test is also named as BUN test. Urea is produced as a result of protein breakdown in the body. Urea passes out in the urine from the body. This article gives information about the urea blood test. This test is used to check how well the kidneys are functioning. BUN level rises if the urea is not removed from the blood by the kidneys. Dehydration, high protein diet or heart failure can also increase the levels of BUN. Liver damage or disease may lower the BUN level
The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test is a measure of the amount of nitrogen in the blood that comes from urea. It is used as a marker of renal function, though it is inferior to other markers such as creatinine because blood urea levels are influenced by other factors such as diet and dehydration. 
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of urea nitrogen found in your blood. BUN levels help your doctor see how well your kidneys are working. The test may be used along with other measurements to help diagnose a kidney disorder or find out how well your treatment for kidney disease is working. 
If the creatinine and BUN tests are found to be abnormal or if someone has an underlying disease that is known to affect the kidneys, such as diabetes or high blood pressure, then creatinine and BUN tests may be used to monitor for kidney dysfunction and the effectiveness of treatment. Urea is released by the liver into the blood and is carried to the kidneys, where it is filtered out of the blood and released into the urine. Since this is an ongoing process, there is usually a small but stable amount of urea nitrogen in the blood.