1 If your screen is locked, unlock your screen. 2  Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 3  If you need to select a USB connection option on your device, choose Media device (MTP) . 4  Locate music files on your computer and drag them into your device's Music folder in Android File Transfer. 1 Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 2  If you’re prompted to select a USB connection option on your device, select Media device (MTP) . 3  Locate music files on your computer and drag them into your device's Music folder.
The native Windows Media Player app on your Windows computer is a handy tool for transferring music onto your Android phone. Connect the phone to your computer using the phone’s USB cable. If necessary, swipe down from the top of your Android’s screen and select “Media Device (MTP)” as your connection type. Download and install Android File Transfer on your Mac, and then connect your phone to the
1 Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 2  If you need to select a USB connection option on your device, choose Media device (MTP) . 3  Locate music files on your computer and drag them into your device's Music folder in Android File Transfer. 1 Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 2  If you’re prompted to select a USB connection option on your device, select Media device (MTP) . 3  Locate music files on your computer and drag them into your device's Music folder.
Transfer Music From a Mac. If your music is on a Mac, transfer it onto your Android phone using the free Android File Transfer application. Download and install Android File Transfer on your Mac, and then connect your phone to the computer using the phone’s USB cable. If necessary, swipe down from the top of your Android’s screen and select “Media Device (MTP)” as your connection type.
Once you’ve transferred music to your device, you can listen to it using the Google Play Music app. 1  Download and install Android File Transfer on your computer. 2  If your screen is locked, unlock your screen. 3  Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 1 Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 2  If you’re prompted to select a USB connection option on your device, select Media device (MTP) . 3  Locate music files on your computer and drag them into your device's Music folder.
Click the Start Sync button to transfer the music from the PC to your Android phone. The Start Sync button may be located atop the list, as shown, or it might be found at the bottom of the list. Close the Windows Media Player when the transfer is complete. Or keep it open — whatever. On Windows, the most common program is Windows Media Player. You can use this program to synchronize music between your phone and the PC. Here’s how it works: Connect the phone to the PC. Use the USB cable that comes with the phone. Over on the PC, an AutoPlay dialog box appears in Windows, prompting you to choose how best to mount the phone into the Windows storage system. Ensure that your phone is connected as a media player or uses something called MTP
Connect your Android to your computer using a USB cable. Use Windows Explorer to copy your music files to the Music folder on your device. You can also use the excellent AirDroid to copy songs and other files over Wi-Fi without even connecting your phone to your computer. You can then play music on your Android devic
1 If your screen is locked, unlock your screen. 2  Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 3  If you’re prompted to select a USB connection option on your device, select Media device (MTP) . 4  Locate music files on your computer and drag them into your device's Music folder. 1 Connect your computer to your device using a USB cable. 2  If you’re prompted to select a USB connection option on your device, select Media device (MTP) . 3
You can transfer music onto Android devices using two of the native programs on your Windows 8.1 computer: Windows Media Player and File Explorer. If you’re on a Mac, install the free Android File Transfer application to sync audio files onto your phone. Download and install Android File Transfer on your Mac, and then connect your phone to the computer using the phone’s USB cable. If necessary, swipe down from the top of your Android’s screen and select “Media Device (MTP)” as your connection type.