Open the worksheet you forget your password to. Use Alt+F11 to enter the macro editor. Once in VBA double click the sheet you need to unlock from the menu listing on the left. This will open the general declarations page for the sheet. 
Note that you can also open the workbook first and then double-click on the add-on to get the new menu options. I created a test workbook and protected both the sheet and the workbook with a simple password at first. Excel Password Remover 2007 is a freeware program that you can use to remove/crack/break/unlock a password on an Excel workbook or sheet. However, you still have to be able to open the file itself.
Screencast by Steven Morrissey showing how to remove passwords from excel without paying for any software or waiting a lifetime for password cracking tools. If you have forgotton your password for any excel document this is a quick and easy way of removing them. 
Like: 1tsfwiExcel. Here you can know much more information about how to choose a secure yet easy-to-remember password. Once we decide the password for our Excel file, you should follow the steps below to create passwords in an Excel file. Step 3: Enter your password 1tsfwiExcel in the box of password to open. Step 4: If you want to prevent others from changing your file without permission, you can generate another password with the method mentioned above and then enter it in the password to modify box. 
Breaking Excel File Password. Miguel Alarco asked Jan 26, 2011 | Replies (13). Does someone know how to break up the open file password without using the bruteforce software, I mean, using knowledge statements similar as the following steps we can use to break up the VBA password. Regard, Miguel. Join this group. We can find Bruteforce software that can break the file Excel password, but does not work with long passwords (8, 9 or more characters), it take to much time. You can also find hackers that offers you open the Excel passwords in seconds. This means knowledge, because they dont use bruteforce software.
Remove Excel Workbook/Worksheet Passwords. Excel Password Remover 2007 is a freeware program that you can use to remove/crack/break/unlock a password on an Excel workbook or sheet. However, you still have to be able to open the file itself.
How to Unprotect an excel sheet without password. THis document will tel you how to unprotect an excel spread sheet without having the password. This procedure works in Excel 2010 and earlier but in Excel 2013 this will not work. In case of a password protect worksheet you are unable to Edit the data on the Excel Sheet. If you do not Remember the Password or do not know the password to unprotect the sheet just follow the below simple steps. Press ALT + F11 or click on View Code in Developers Tabs. In the Above White Space Enter the below Code
I would like to suggest you best excel password recovery software, through this tool excel user can easily recover excel password and make excel sheet security free instantly. Excel password breaker tool can break all multilingual passwords and open excel sheet easily. Read More.... For passwords to open, Excel Password Recovery 5.0 offers three different searching methods: advanced dictionary attack, brute-force attack, and advanced brute-force with mask attack. Excel versions from 97 to 2007 are all supported! http://recoverlostpassword.com/products/...
If you need to crack an Excel VBA password, you should check out VBA Key from the same company. It supports all office products including Word, Excel, Access, etc for VBA password recovery. It also supports multilingual passwords. It also costs $39. Excel Password Remover 2007 is a freeware program that you can use to remove/crack/break/unlock a password on an Excel workbook or sheet. However, you still have to be able to open the file itself.
Crack Sheet Protection Password. This routine provides a password to unprotect your worksheet. However, it may not give you the original password that was used. Open the workbook that has the protected sheet in it. 