Origin of the name Finley: Anglicized form of Fionnlagh and Fionnla, compound names composed of the Gaelic elements fionn (white, fair) and laogh (warrior, calf): hence, fair-haired warrior.. Var: Finlay. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Origin of the name Finley: Anglicized form of Fionnlagh and Fionnla, compound names composed of the Gaelic elements fionn (white, fair) and laogh (warrior, calf): hence, fair-haired warrior.. Var: Finlay. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Its pronunciation is F IH NLiy- †. Finley is largely used in the English, Irish, and Scottish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. Finley is a variant spelling of the name Finlay (English, Irish, and Scottish). Finley is also an English variant of the name Fionnlagh (Irish, Scottish, English, and Gaelic). Finley is a fairly popular baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 2000s
Finley is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Fin-ley. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 223 in baby name popularity for girls with 1498 occurrences. It ranked 374 in popular baby names for boys with 829 occurrences. View the Finley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Finley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Finley to other names. Finley is a variant spelling of Findlay. Variants of the name Finley include Finlay, Finnley
[ 2 syll. fi-nley, fin-l- ey ] The baby girl name Finley is also used as a boy name, though the use for girls is more popular. It is pronounced F IH NLiy- †. Finley's language of origin is Irish. The meaning of Finley is 'fair-haired hero'. Finley is a rather popular baby girl name, and it is also perceived as trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of only very modest use. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.047% of baby girls were named Finley. It was #349 in rank then.
Finley /fin-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. The name Finley means fair, white warrior. Finley is a variant transcription of Finlay (Scottish, Gaelic). Compare surname Fenley. Kreatif forms: Filey, Finli. Finley is a rare given name for men but a very popular last name for all people (#854 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Finley for boys. Finley reached its peak position of #374 in the U.S. in the year 2014.
Forms of Finley include the names Findlay, Findley, Finlea, Finlee, Finn, Finnlea, and Finnley. Finley is a rather popular baby girl name, and it is also perceived as trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of only very modest use. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.047% of baby girls were named Finley. It was #349 in rank then.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Finley for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Finley is a boy name. The name Finley is of Celtic-Gaelic origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Finley and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Finley and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Finley is a baby boy name. The name Finley comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Finley is: Variant of Finlay: Fair hero.
Irish Meaning: The name Finlay is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Finlay is: Fair hero. Gaelic Meaning: The name Finlay is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Finlay is: Small blond soldier. Fair hero. Famous Bearers: The fictional MacBeth's father. Scottish Meaning: The name Finlay is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Finlay is: From the Gaelic name meaning fair hero. Famous Bearers: The fictional MacBeth's father, Scottish actor Finlay Currie. 