Some carotenoids are converted by the body to vitamin A, which is essential to vision and normal growth and development. Carotenoids also have anti-inflammatory and immune system benefits and are sometimes associated with cardiovascular disease prevention. Carotenoids are plant pigments responsible for bright red, yellow and orange hues in many fruits and vegetables. These pigments play an important role in plant health. People who eat foods containing carotenoids get protective health benefits as well.
Among the carotenoids that can be converted to vitamin A in the human body (so-called ‘provitamin A carotenoids’), Beta-Carotene is the most abundant and efficient one found in foods. As an intense pigment, Beta-Carotene is widely used as a colorant in food, beverage and pharmaceutical applications. Beta-Carotene is important to the body because it functions as: 1  A safe source of vitamin A, helping the body to reach the vitamin A levels essential for normal growth and development, good vision and eye health, a strong immune system, and healthy skin.
The carotenoids in tomatoes are yellow, orange and red pigments that act as antioxidants to help protect your cells. Tomato carotenoids include compounds called carotenes and xanthophylls. The provitamin A carotenes are converted to vitamin A inside your body and are important in the visual cycle in your eyes. Other carotenoids in tomatoes can also accumulate in your eyes and help to filter damaging rays of light. 
Carotenoids are natural fat-soluble pigments found in certain plants. Carotenoids provide the bright red, orange, or yellow coloration of many vegetables, serve as antioxidants, and can be a source for vitamin A activity. There are more than 600 known natural carotenoids, all of them synthesized only in plants. About 10% of dietary carotenoids are converted to vitamin A in the body and contribute 25% of our total vitamin A. Of the 600 carotenoids that have been identified, about 30 to 50 are believed to have vitamin A activity. Carotenoids the body converts to vitamin A are referred to as provitamin A carotenoids. The most well known of this group are beta-carotene and alpha-carotene. Many carotenoids are antioxidants that protect cells against free radicals by neutralizing them before they cause oxidative damage
Carotenoids are organic pigments that are found in the chloroplasts and chromoplasts of plants and some other photosynthetic organisms, including some bacteria and some fungi. Carotenoids can be produced from fats and other basic organic metabolic building blocks by all these organisms. Carotenoids that contain unsubstituted beta-ionone rings (including beta-carotene, alpha-carotene, beta-cryptoxanthin and gamma-carotene) have vitamin A activity (meaning that they can be converted to retinal), and these and other carotenoids can also act as antioxidants.
Some carotenoids, such as lycopene, zeaxanthin, lutein, capsanthin, and canthaxanthin are not converted into vitamin A in the body. But again, they are powerful cancer fighters, prevalent in fruits and vegetables. There is abundant evidence that lycopene in particular helps reduce the risk for prostate cancer. Orange and yellow fruits and vegetables have high vitamin A activity because of the carotenoids they contain. Generally, the deeper the color of the fruit or vegetable is an indication of a higher concentration of carotenoids. Carrots, for example, are especially good sources of beta-carotene. Green, leafy vegetables such as spinach, asparagus, and broccoli also contain large amounts of carotenoids, but their intense green pigment, courtesy of chlorophyll, masks the tell-tale orange-yellow colo
1 The most common carotenoids in North American diets are α-carotene, β-carotene, β-cryptoxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin, and lycopene. 2  α-Carotene, β-carotene, and β-cryptoxanthin are provitamin A carotenoids, meaning they can be converted by the body to retinol (vitamin A). Carotenoids are a class of more than 600 naturally occurring pigments synthesized by plants, algae, and photosynthetic bacteria. These richly colored molecules are the sources of the yellow, orange, and red colors of many plants (1) . Fruit and vegetables provide most of the carotenoids in the human diet.