Editor's Note: USDA scientists analyzed antioxidant levels in more than 100 different foods, including fruits and vegetables. Each food was measured for antioxidant concentration as well as antioxidant capacity per serving size. Cranberries, blueberries, and blackberries ranked highest among the fruits studied. Beans, artichokes, and Russet potatoes were tops among the vegetables.
Boost your intake of a variety of antioxidants with these healthy foods. The following is a list of different kinds of antioxidants and foods that are high in each. • Allium sulphur compounds: Leeks, onions, garlic • Anthocyanins: Eggplant, grapes, berries. • Vitamin C: Oranges, berries, kiwi fruit, mangoes, broccoli, spinach, peppers • Vitamin E: Vegetable oils, nuts, avocados, seeds, whole grains • Zinc: Seafood, lean meat, milk, nuts.
Eating a diet rich in antioxidant-containing foods, such as fruits, vegetables and whole grains, is linked to a reduced risk of cardiovascular (heart and blood vessels) disease. 1  Learn more. There are benefits to getting vitamins in food that don’t necessarily occur in supplement form. For example, foods rich in antioxidants may have nutrients such as flavonoids and lycopenes which are not necessarily included standard oral vitamin supplements.
Antioxidants are natural substances that exist as vitamins, minerals and other compounds in foods. They are believed to help prevent disease by fighting free radicals, substances that harm the body when left unchecked. There are benefits to getting vitamins in food that don’t necessarily occur in supplement form. For example, foods rich in antioxidants may have nutrients such as flavonoids and lycopenes which are not necessarily included standard oral vitamin supplements.
They're loaded with nutrients, called antioxidants, that are good for you. Add more fruits and vegetables of any kind to your diet. It'll help your health. Some foods are higher in antioxidants than others, though. The three major antioxidant vitamins are beta-carotene, vitamin C, and vitamin E. You’ll find them in colorful fruits and vegetables, especially those with purple, blue, red, orange, and yellow hues. Other antioxidants that can help keep you healthy include: Zinc: oysters, red meat, poultry, beans, nuts, seafood, whole grains, fortified cereals, and dairy products. Selenium: Brazil nuts, tuna, beef, poultry, fortified breads, and other grain products. Cooking tip: To get the biggest benefits of antioxidants, eat these foods raw or lightly steamed
save to your list™». ADVERTISEMENT. Various food items contain antioxidants, but it is possible to supplement your diet to get the best protection possible. Antioxidant substances include Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Beta-carotene, Lycopene, Selenium, and Lutein. 
Plant-based foods are the best sources. These include fruits, vegetables and their juices, whole-grain products, nuts, seeds, herbs and spices, and even chocolate. As a bonus, most foods high in antioxidants are high in fiber, low in saturated fat and cholesterol, and good sources of vitamins and minerals.
Vitamin E. Vitamin E is a powerful antioxidant, and is used as a preservative in many food and cosmetic products. But it can also be found naturally in certain foods like sunflower seeds, avocados, and peanut butter. 11. Vitamin E is a powerful antioxidant, and is used as a preservative in many food and cosmetic products. But it can also be found naturally in certain foods like sunflower seeds, avocados, and peanut butter.