This process of generating current in a conductor by placing the conductor in a changing magnetic field is called induction. This is called induction because there is no physical connection between the conductor and the magnet. The current is said to be induced in the conductor by the magnetic field. 
Then by either moving the wire or changing the magnetic field we can induce a voltage and current within the coil and this process is known as Electromagnetic Induction and is the basic principal of operation of transformers, motors and generators. By moving this bar magnet “in” and “out” of the coil a current would be induced into the coil by the physical movement of the magnetic flux inside it. Likewise, if we kept the bar magnet stationary and moved the coil back and forth within the magnetic field an electric current would be induced in the coil.
Electromagnetic induction is the production of an electromotive force across a conductor exposed to time varying magnetic fields. Michael Faraday, who mathematically described Faraday's law of induction, is generally credited with its discovery in 1831. 
Photo by: Yuri Shirokov. The term electromagnetic induction refers to the generation of an electric current by passing a metal wire through a magnetic field. The discovery of electromagnetic induction in 1831 was preceded a decade earlier by a related discovery by Danish physicist Hans Christian Oersted (1777–1851). As the coil spins between the poles of the magnet, an electric current is generated. That current then can be sent out along transmission lines to homes, office buildings, factories, and other consumers of electric power. Transformers also operate on the principle of electromagnetic induction.
In other words, Electromagnetic Induction is the process of using magnetic fields to produce voltage, and in a closed circuit, a current. So how much voltage (emf) can be induced into the coil using just magnetism. Well this is determined by the following 3 different factors. By moving this bar magnet “in” and “out” of the coil a current would be induced into the coil by the physical movement of the magnetic flux inside it. Likewise, if we kept the bar magnet stationary and moved the coil back and forth within the magnetic field an electric current would be induced in the coil.
1. Induction (Electromagnetic Induction) - is the production of current in a conductor as it moves through a magnetic field. A magnet produces lines of magnetic force, as seen in the graphic above. Iron filings align themselves along the invisible lines of flux. How it works: Induction (Electromagnetic Induction) - is the production of current in a conductor as it moves through a magnetic field. A magnet produces lines of magnetic force, as seen in the graphic above.
induction, in electricity and magnetism, common name for three distinct phenomena. Electromagnetic induction is the production of an electromotive force (emf) in a conductor as a result of a changing magnetic field about the conductor and is the most important of the three phenomena. It was discovered in 1831 by Michael Faraday and independently by Joseph Henry.