This article is about the name Ogilvy. For other uses, see Ogilvy. Ogilvy is a Scottish locational surname originating in 1172 from the barony of Ogilvie, located in the Scottish county of Angus. Ogilvy derives from Old Welsh words ugl (high) and ma (place). There are several variant spellings. Clan Ogilvy is a Scottish clan, of whom the Earl of Airlie is chief. The titles Earl of Airlie, Earl of Findlater, and Earl of Seafield are held by branches of the Ogilvy family, as was the title Lord Banff until it became dormant in 1803.
Scottish Meaning: The name Ogilvie is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Ogilvie is: From the high peak. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
Ogilvie Surname Origin. (Locality). From the lands of Ogilvie, in Scotland. It may come from the Welsh Ochil, a high place. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857. There is more to Ogilvie family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Ogilvie family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know.
[ 3 syll. o-gil-vie, og-ilv-ie ] The baby boy name Ogilvie is pronounced as AA JHihLViy †. Ogilvie's origin is Welsh. Ogilvie is a variant form of the name Ogilvy. Ogilvie is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names. 
This is an ancient and famous Scottish surname. It is locational from the barony of Ogilvie near Glamis, in the former county of Angus. In the modern idiom the surname has several spellings including Ogilvie, Ogilvy, Ogelsby and Ogilby. The name probably derives from the pre 7th century Olde English or Welsh word ugl meaning high, and ma a place. Gilbert, the son of Gillebride, the first Earl of Angus, was the first to assume the surname, when he was granted the manor of Ogilvy in 1172.
Ogilvie Name Meaning. Scottish: habitational name from a place near Glamis in the former county of Angus, which is first recorded c.1205 in the form Ogilvin. It is probably named from an early British form of Welsh uchel ‘high’ + ma ‘plain’, ‘place’ (mutated to fa) or ban ‘hill’ (mutated to fan). You can find out where the majority of the Ogilvie families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
Meaning of Ogilvie. Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Ogilvie means-from the high peak.The name Ogilvie originated as an Scottish name. The name Ogilvie is most often used as a boy name or male name. Scottish Name Meaning-from the high peak. Origin-Scotland