Several species are grown as ornamental plants in gardens. Nigella damascena has been grown in English cottage gardens since Elizabethan times, commonly called love-in-a-mist. Nigella hispanica is a taller species with larger blue flowers, red stamens, and grey leaves. Nigella seeds are self-sowing if the seed pods are left to mature. Common names applied to members of this genus are nigella, devil-in-a-bush or love-in-a-mist. The species grow to 20–90 cm tall, with finely divided leaves; the leaf segments are narrowly linear to threadlike. The flowers are white, yellow, pink, pale blue or pale purple, with five to 10 petals.
Height: 45cm. Spread: 23cm. Time to plant seeds: September to May. Flowering period: July to September. Nigella is an old cottage garden flower, a favourite for scattering wherever there is a gap in the flower border, but also good for short-term massed bedding and for drying. For many years 'Miss Jekyll' was the only widely available variety, and it is still popular for its dependable masses of sky-blue flowers. 
Nigella is a genus of about 14 species of annual plants in the family Ranunculaceae, native to southern Europe, north Africa, south and southwest Asia. Common names applied to members of this genus are nigella, devil-in-a-bush or love-in-a-mist. The species grow to 20–90 cm tall, with finely divided leaves; the leaf segments are narrowly linear to threadlike. The flowers are white, yellow, pink, pale blue or pale purple, with five to 10 petals.
Overview: Nigella earns its common name of Love-in-a-Mist with a tangle of ferny, fennel like foliage that form a mist around the flowers. I'm not sure why anyone would call Nigella Devil in the Bush. Nigella flowers start off as interesting puffs, open into rich toned, straw-flower like blossoms and change into equally attractive seed pods. Latin Name: Nigella damascena. Common Name: Nigella, Love-in-a-Mist, Devil in the Bush, Persian Jewels. USDA Hardiness Zone: Annual
Physical Characteristics. Nigella damascena is a ANNUAL growing to 0.6 m (2ft) by 0.2 m (0ft 8in) at a fast rate. It is not frost tender. It is in flower from Jul to October, and the seeds ripen from Aug to October.
Seed capsule. Nigella damascena (love-in-a-mist, ragged lady or devil in the bush) is an annual garden flowering plant, belonging to the buttercup family Ranunculaceae. It grows to 20–50 cm (8–20 in) tall, with pinnately divided, thread-like, alternate leaves. The flowers, blooming in early summer, are most commonly different shades of blue, but can be white, pink, or pale purple, with 5 to 25 sepals.
Nigella plant info also recommends succession planting of the love in a mist plant, as flowering time is short for each plant. When flowers fade, interesting striped seed pods with “horns” appear on the cultivar Nigella damascena. These seed pods may be used fresh or dried as a decorative element in dried arrangements. Nigella Plant Info. If you’re not familiar with the love in a mist plant, you may wonder exactly what it is. Flowers of growing Nigella are surrounded by a series of bracts. These are supported by a thread-like leaf structure, known as a ruff, on the cultivar love in a mist plant.
Love-In-A-Mist (Nigella damascena), a pretty plant with a romantic name, is native to North Africa and southern Europe; it is one of about twenty species in the genus, all of them annual herbs from the Mediterranean region. Several other species of Nigella are good garden subjects and well worth growing. N. hispanica, native to North Africa and Spain, is similar to love-in-a-mist but has a more sprawling habit, slightly coarser leaves, and larger deep blue flowers with black centers and maroon stamens.