(Not all partner airlines advertise itineraries on Delta.com; to book award flights on those airlines, you will need to call SkyMiles customer service at 800-323-2323.) The number of miles needed depends on the airline, the route and the availability.
Visit the Delta Airlines website and log in to your SkyMiles account. After logging in, your total number of accrued miles appears under your name. To upgrade your seat, you'll need 5,000 miles if traveling in the continental U.S., Alaska or Canada. Traveling between other countries requires as many as 20,000 miles.
1 In order to use miles, you must book your flight through Delta.com or with a Delta ticket agent. 2  You must have a minimum balance of 10,000 miles in order to use miles to cover flight costs. 3  You cannot use miles to cover any additional taxes or fees for award travel tickets.
As a Delta SkyMiles program member, you will earn miles for every Delta-marketed flight; Delta-marketed flights are identified by a DL in the flight number. For every dollar spent on a Delta-marketed flight, you will accrue 5 frequent flier miles with Delta.
We often think miles are just for traveling, but they can be used for so much more. Shop. Donate. Upgrade. We're giving you more ways than ever before to redeem your frequent flyer miles. How you use your hard earned miles is up to you. Truly, the choice is yours.
Earning Points. As a Delta SkyMiles program member, you will earn miles for every Delta-marketed flight; Delta-marketed flights are identified by a DL in the flight number. For every dollar spent on a Delta-marketed flight, you will accrue 5 frequent flier miles with Delta.
As a member of the SkyTeam alliance, Delta miles can be used to book flights on Air France, Alitalia, Aeroflot, Aeromexico, Air Europa, China Southern, Czech, Kenya, KLM, Korean, TAROM, and Vietnam Airlines.
Points. By becoming a SkyMiles member, you'll earn a base rate of 5 frequent flier miles for every dollar you spend on a flight with Delta, Delta Connection or Delta Shuttle; you will also earn miles for travel on Delta's partner airlines, though the amount you'll earn varies by carrier.