Neuropathy is damage to nerves, and diabetic neuropathy is damage to nerves that occurs as a result of diabetes. Diabetes is thought to damage nerves as a result of prolonged elevated levels of blood glucose. 1 Different types of diabetic neuropathy include peripheral neuropathy, focal neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, and proximal neuropathy. 2  Peripheral neuropathy most commonly causes 3  : pain, 4  burning, 5  tingling, and. 6  numbness of the feet and lower legs.
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is damage to or disease affecting nerves, which may impair sensation, movement, gland or organ function, or other aspects of health, depending on the type of nerve affected. 
Neuropathy (Nerve Damage). Nerve damage from diabetes is called diabetic neuropathy (new-ROP-uh-thee). About half of all people with diabetes have some form of nerve damage. It is more common in those who have had the disease for a number of years and can lead to many kinds of problems. 
1 Diabetic neuropathy is damage to nerves that occurs as a result of diabetes. 2  Diabetes is thought to damage nerves as a result of prolonged elevated levels of blood glucose. 3  Different types of diabetic neuropathy include peripheral neuropathy, focal neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, and proximal neuropathy. 1 Different types of diabetic neuropathy include peripheral neuropathy, focal neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, and proximal neuropathy. 2  Peripheral neuropathy most commonly causes 3  : pain, 4  burning, 5  tingling, and. 6  numbness of the feet and lower legs.
Peripheral neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy is the most common form of diabetic neuropathy. Your feet and legs are often affected first, followed by your hands and arms. Signs and symptoms of peripheral neuropathy are often worse at night, and may include: 1  Numbness or reduced ability to feel pain or temperature changes. Radiculoplexus neuropathy (diabetic amyotrophy). Radiculoplexus neuropathy affects nerves in the thighs, hips, buttocks or legs. Also called diabetic amyotrophy, femoral neuropathy or proximal neuropathy, this condition is more common in people with type 2 diabetes and older adults.
In this article. Peripheral neuropathy is nerve damage caused by chronically high blood sugar and diabetes. It leads to numbness, loss of sensation, and sometimes pain in your feet, legs, or hands. It is the most common complication of diabetes. About 60% to 70% of all people with diabetes will eventually develop peripheral neuropathy, although not all suffer pain. Yet this nerve damage is not inevitable.
Peripheral neuropathy is damage of the peripheral nerves. Your peripheral nerves — the nerves in your toes and fingertips — are the ones on the periphery of your body. When the nerves are damaged, they don't function properly. 
1 Diabetic peripheral neuropathy refers to damage to peripheral nerves, most commonly the nerves of the feet and legs. 2  Diabetic proximal neuropathy affects nerves in the thighs, hips, or buttocks. 3  Diabetic autonomic neuropathy affects the autonomic nervous system, the nerves that control body functions. 1 Different types of diabetic neuropathy include peripheral neuropathy, focal neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, and proximal neuropathy. 2  Peripheral neuropathy most commonly causes 3  : pain, 4  burning, 5  tingling, and. 6  numbness of the feet and lower legs.
Diabetic neuropathy is a peripheral nerve disorder caused by diabetes or poor blood sugar control. The most common types of diabetic neuropathy result in problems with sensation in the feet. It can develop slowly after many years of diabetes or may occur early in the disease. The symptoms are numbness, pain, or tingling in the feet or lower legs. 