Top. Every enzyme has a specific function One of the unique things about enzymes is that they have one function and one function only. Every function or substrate in an organism has its own unique enzyme. The substrate which is to be transformed fits the enzyme like a key in a lock. Enzymes are the workhorses of the body. When you eat, enzymes break down the food into tiny particles which can be converted into energy in the body. The process starts in the mouth, where an enzyme called amylase attacks all incoming food particles.
The types of enzymes that are produced by the body are metabolic and digestive enzymes. Uses of enzymes vary depending on the enzyme structure but one thing is for sure is that the benefits of digestive enzymes and metabolic enzymes outweigh the cost. There are three types and uses of enzymes that maintain living organisms: 1  Metabolic Enzymes – These enzymes are primarily in charge of energy production in the body. 2  They also help to detox the body on a cellular level and are even help our sensory system respond appropriately.
Enzymes are large biomolecules that are responsible for many chemical reactions that are necessary to sustain life. Enzyme is a protein molecule and are biological catalysts. Enzymes increase the rate of the reaction. Enzymes are specific, they function with only one reactant to produce specific products. Enzymes are highly selective, they catalyze specific reactions only. Enzymes have a part of a molecule where it just has the shape where only certain kind of substrate can bind to it, this site of activity is known as the 'active site'. The molecules that react and bind to the enzyme is known as the 'substrate'.
Enzymes are needed for metabolic pathways in the body, respiration, digestion and other important life processes. When enzymes function properly, homeostasis is maintained. However, if an enzyme is lacking or has an incorrect shape due to a genetic mutation, this can lead to disease within an organism. An example of this is the disease phenylketonuria or PKU.
All the same, enzymes catalyze all processes in the body, enabling organisms to build up chemical substances such as other proteins, carbohydrates or fats that are necessary for life.In short, all enzymes are proteins, but not all proteins are enzymes. If a protein can catalyze a biochemical reaction, it is an enzyme. Enzymes are the workhorses of the body. When you eat, enzymes break down the food into tiny particles which can be converted into energy in the body. The process starts in the mouth, where an enzyme called amylase attacks all incoming food particles.
Enzymes are molecules of protein that are made from amino acid chains. They are produced by all living organisms and by plants. The structure establishes the functions or uses of enzymes. It is found that therapeutic grade oils maintain their enzymatic activity when distilled properly and without solvents. There are three types and uses of enzymes that maintain living organisms: 1  Metabolic Enzymes – These enzymes are primarily in charge of energy production in the body. 2  They also help to detox the body on a cellular level and are even help our sensory system respond appropriately.