Cyclospora infects the small intestine (bowel) and usually causes watery diarrhea, with frequent, sometimes explosive, bowel movements. Other common symptoms include loss of appetite, weight loss, stomach cramps/pain, bloating, increased gas, nausea, and fatigue. Cyclospora is spread by people ingesting something-such as food or water-that was contaminated with feces (stool). Cyclospora needs time (days to weeks) after being passed in a bowel movement to become infectious for another person.
Cyclosporiasis is an intestinal illness caused by Cyclospora cayetanensis, a one-cell parasite. The majority of cases are seen in the warmer months. In the last several years, outbreaks of the illness have been reported in the United States and Canada. 
Causes. A one-celled parasite, Cyclospora cayetanensis, causes cyclospora infection. You get it by drinking water or eating food that's been contaminated by an infected person. A person infected with cyclospora passes the parasite in stool. 
Definition. Cyclosporiasis refers to infection by the sporeforming protozoan known as Cyclospora. Protozoa are a group of parasites that infect the human intestine. Parasites are organisms that live in another body, called the host, and get food and liquids from that host. cyclosporiasis. Infection with Cyclospora. /cy·clo·spo·ri·a·sis/ (-spah-ri´ah-sis) infection by protozoa of the genus Cyclospora, especially C. cayetanen´sis, seen especially in immunocompromised patients and occurring as recurrent gastrointestinal disease and watery diarrhea.
Definition. Cyclospora infection causes watery, and sometimes explosive, diarrhea. The one-celled parasite that causes cyclospora infection can enter your body when you ingest contaminated food or water. Fresh produce is the culprit in many cases of cyclospora infection. 
This parasite causes an intestinal infection called cyclosporiasis. Cyclospora is acquired by people ingesting something-such as food or water-that was contaminated with the parasite. Cyclospora needs time (days to weeks) after being passed in a bowel movement to become infectious for another person. 
January 2013 Cyclosporiasis What is cyclosporiasis? Cyclosporiasis is an infection of the intestine caused by a parasite called Cyclospora cayetanensis (SIGH-clo-SPORE-uh KYE-uh-tuh-NEN-sis). The first known human cases of Cyclospora infection (cyclosporiasis) were reported in 1979.
Cyclosporiasis: Cyclospora cayetanensis (SIGH-clo-SPORE-uh KYE-uh-tuh-NEN-sis) is a ... more about Cyclosporiasis. Cyclosporiasis: A parasitic disease caused by Cyclospora cayetensis which is transmitted by ingestion of food or water contaminated by infected fecal matter. Some cases are asymptomatic while others can be quite severe and untreated cases can suffer relapses. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Cyclosporiasis: 1  Cyclospora cayetanensis. 2  Diarrhoea. 3  Fever.
Symptoms of cyclosporiasis begin an average of 7 days (range, 2 days to ≥2 weeks) after ingestion of sporulated oocysts (the infective form of the parasite). Symptoms of cyclosporiasis may include: 1  Watery diarrhea (most common). 2  Loss of appetite. If a person ill with cyclosporiasis is not treated, symptoms can persist for several weeks to a month or more. Some symptoms, such as diarrhea, can return; and some symptoms, such as muscle aches and fatigue, may continue after the gastrointestinal symptoms have gone away.