The purpose of this experiment is to compare the efficiency of simple distillation versus fractional distillation for separation of a mixture of toluene and cyclohexane. The mixture will first be separated using fractional distillation. 
Lesson Summary. Toluene, also called methylbenzene, is an organic chemical compound with a chemical formula of C7H8. Insoluble in water, it is a colorless liquid with an odor similar to that of paint thinners. Toluene has intoxicating properties and, when inhaled, can cause neurological harm. Toluene is an aromatic hydrocarbon: it is an aromatic compound because a benzene ring is present in its chemical structure and a hydrocarbon because its chemical formula consists only of carbon and hydrogen atoms.
The example shown below is for. a 1:1 mixture of cyclohexane (C) and toluene (T). If we were to collect the vapor above the 1:1 mixture, condense it to liquid, and analyze its composition we would find that the vapor was greater than 50% cyclohexane and less than 50% toluene. The vapor is enriched in the lower-boiling cyclohexane. 3. Take a look at the following simple distillation set-up.
Toluene is a clear, colorless liquid with a distinctive smell. It is a good solvent (a substance that can dissolve other substances). It is added to gasoline along with benzene and xylene. Toluene occurs naturally in crude oil and in the tolu tree. PDF Version, 124 KB. This Public Health Statement is the summary chapter from the Toxicological Profile for Toluene. It is one in a series of Public Health Statements about hazardous substances and their health effects. A shorter version, the ToxFAQsTM, is also available. This information is important because this substance may harm you
Toluene /ˈtɒljuːiːn/ , formerly known as toluol /ˈtɒljuːɒl/ , is a colourless, water-insoluble liquid with the smell associated with paint thinners. It is a mono-substituted benzene derivative, consisting of a CH3 group attached to a phenyl group. As such, its IUPAC systematic name is methylbenzene. In the laboratory, toluene is used as a solvent for carbon nanomaterials, including nanotubes and fullerenes, and it can also be used as a fullerene indicator. The colour of the toluene solution of C 60 is bright purple.
Tori Minick Distillation of a Cyclohexane-Toluene Mixture Purpose: Distillation is an important separation/purification technique when one is dealing with a liquid organic compound. There are two distillations in which we are experimenting with using Cyclohexane-Toluene. Simple distillation is when the liquid contains a non-volatile impurity and severs as a purification technique. Fractional distillation is when a mixture of two components with similar boiling points is boiled.
It is an aromatic hydrocarbon. Toluene is widely used as an industrial feedstock and as a solvent. Like other solvents, toluene is sometimes also used as an inhalant drug for its intoxicating properties; however, inhaling toluene has potential to cause severe neurological harm. Toluene is an important organic solvent. In the laboratory, toluene is used as a solvent for carbon nanomaterials, including nanotubes and fullerenes, and it can also be used as a fullerene indicator. The colour of the toluene solution of C 60 is bright purple.
Toluene is a very good solvent because, unlike water, it can dissolve many organic compounds. In many commercial products, toluene is used as a solvent that is present in paint thinners, nail polish remover, glues, and correction fluid. Toluene is an aromatic hydrocarbon: it is an aromatic compound because a benzene ring is present in its chemical structure and a hydrocarbon because its chemical formula consists only of carbon and hydrogen atoms.