Alloy Steels. These contain a little carbon, and sometimes silicon, but they mainly contain added metals, such as manganese (hardness), nickel (strength), molybdenum (improved wear), tungsten (high temperature strength), chromium (corrosion resistance), and vanadium (toughness). Galvanized Steel.
STEEL. Steel is an alloy of iron and carbon or other alloying elements. When the alloying element is carbon, the steel is referred to as carbon steel. Carbon steels are classified by the percentage of carbon in points or hundredths of 1 percent they contain. Ferrous metals include cast iron, steel, and the various steel alloys, The only difference between iron and steel is the carbon content. Cast iron contains more than 2-percent carbon, while steel contains less than 2 percent. An alloy is a substance composed of two or more elements.
VIII-Metals-A-Steel-1 THE MANUFACTURE OF STEEL Steel refers to any iron-carbon alloy, although steels usually contain other elements as well. In New Zealand steel is made by BH P NZ at Glenbrook, where about 90% of New Zealand’s annual steel requirements are produced. 
Steel... Well... an alloy is usually two metals and carbon is not a metal the last time I checked, but things might have changed since I last took chemistry... Steel is actual … ly iron with carbon impurities embedded into the intrinsic diamond-structure of metallic compounds. The carbon particles are so small that they can fit into little nook and crannies that iron atoms have. The carbon concentration of an iron-carbon alloy for which the  fraction of total ferrite is 0.94 is 0.06. Since the fraction of  ferrite in the alloy is 94/100, the fractio … n of carbon must be  6/100 to make a total of 100/100.
As well as iron and carbon, alloy steels contain one or more other elements, such as chromium, copper, manganese, nickel, silicon, or vanadium. In alloy steels, it's these extra elements that make the difference and provide some important additional feature or improved property compared to ordinary carbon steels. Broadly speaking, steel is an alloy of iron that contains up to about 2 percent carbon, while other forms of iron contain about 2–4 percent carbon. In fact, there are thousands of different kinds of iron and steel, all containing slightly different amounts of other alloying elements.
Steel is an alloy of iron with about 1 percent carbon. It may also contain other elements, such as manganese. Whereas pure iron is a relatively soft metal that rusts easily, steel can be hard, tough, and corrosion-resistant. These contain a little carbon, and sometimes silicon, but they mainly contain added metals, such as manganese (hardness), nickel (strength), molybdenum (improved wear), tungsten (high temperature strength), chromium (corrosion resistance), and vanadium (toughness). Galvanized Steel.
All these modify when mixed with another chemical. Alloys can contain non-metal elements, like silicon, carbon or phosphorus, but most alloys are made entirely from metals. Steel, for example, is an alloy of iron and carbon, but allied steels contain also nickel, silicon, manganese or chromium. 
For example, brass is a mixture of copper and zinc. Steel is an alloy of iron with carbon, but other elements may also be added to change its properties. Alloys are useful because the properties of the alloy are different from the properties of the elements they are made from. Different steel alloys. Steel is mainly iron with some carbon in it. Changing the amount of carbon and other trace elements changes the properties of the specific type of steel.
A distinction is made between pure iron-carbon alloys (with traces of impurities), which are produced in small quantities for research purposes, and industrial iron-carbon alloys, including steels (up to 2 percent carbon) and cast irons (more than 2 percent carbon). 