Introduction. Heat exhaustion and heatstroke are two potentially serious conditions that can occur if you get too hot. They usually happen during a heatwave or in a hot climate, but can also occur when you're doing very strenuous physical exercise. 
As the nervous system becomes affected, the following symptoms may emerge: Heat stroke, also known as sunstroke, is a serious medical condition, a medical emergency, when the body's temperature rises too high as a result of excessive heat exposure. The body loses its ability to cool itself and overheats. When the body is unable to cool itself and it begins to overheat, heat stroke is a likely complication. The human body controls its core temperature (body temperature) by maintaining a tight balance between heat gain and heat loss.
Sunstroke is a serious condition and should not be taken lightly. Sometimes called heat stroke, sunstroke happens if the body is exposed to hot temperatures for prolonged periods of time, causing one's temperature to rise to 105 degrees fahrenheit or higher.
Heatstroke: Symptoms and treatment. Heatstroke is the most serious form of heat-related illness and is a medical emergency. If you suspect that someone has heatstroke-which some people refer to as sunstroke-you should call 999 immediately and render first aid until paramedics arrive. 
Sunstroke is a type of heat stroke, but the category heat stroke also covers disorders caused by other forms of intense heat. Recognition. Sunstroke is not the same as heat exhaustion, a less serious disorder in which the amount of salt and fluid in the body falls below normal. In sunstroke there is a disturbance in the mechanism that controls perspiration. Since sunstroke is much more dangerous than heat exhaustion and is treated differently, it is of the utmost importance to distinguish between the two.
Sunstroke. see heatstroke heatstroke,profound disturbance of the heat-regulating mechanism of the body, also known as sunstroke. It is characterized by extremely high body temperatures and sometimes by convulsions and coma...... Click the link for more information. 
Heat stroke is the most serious form of heat injury and is considered a medical emergency. If you suspect that someone has heat stroke -- also known as sunstroke -- call 911 immediately and give first aid until paramedics arrive. Heat stroke can kill or cause damage to the brain and other internal organs. Although heat stroke mainly affects people over age 50, it also takes a toll on healthy young athletes.
Sunstroke is a life threatening condition caused by overexposure to extreme heat. Also sometimes called heatstroke, this condition occurs when the body’s heat control system fails and it cannot lose the excessive heat. High temperatures can cause the body’s major organs to fail. 