A chief executive officer (CEO in American English) or managing director (MD in British English) describes the position of the most senior corporate officer, executive, or administrator in charge of managing a non-profit or for-profit organization. In the US, the term chief executive officer is used primarily in business, whereas the term executive director is used primarily in the not-for-profit sector. These terms are generally mutually exclusive and refer to distinct legal duties and responsibilities which are incompatible.
The CEO of a corporation or company typically reports to the board of directors and is charged with maximizing the value of the entity. Titles also often given to the holder of the CEO position include president and chief executive (CE). In the US, the term chief executive officer is used primarily in business, whereas the term executive director is used primarily in the not-for-profit sector. These terms are generally mutually exclusive and refer to distinct legal duties and responsibilities which are incompatible.
Responsibilities [edit]. The responsibilities of an organization's CEO are set by the organization's board of directors or other authority, depending on the organization's legal structure. They can be far-reaching or quite limited and are typically enshrined in a formal delegation of authority. In the US, the term chief executive officer is used primarily in business, whereas the term executive director is used primarily in the not-for-profit sector. These terms are generally mutually exclusive and refer to distinct legal duties and responsibilities which are incompatible.
CEO (Chief Executive Officer) is a top-ranking corporate position, responsible for overseeing operations. Often the company's president, the CEO reports to the chairman of the board and board members. 
Noun. 1. CEO-the corporate executive responsible for the operations of the firm; reports to a board of directors; may appoint other managers (including a president). chief executive officer, chief operating officer. business executive, corporate executive-an executive in a business corporation. Translations. 
In an organization that has a board of directors, the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position that is primarily responsible to carry out the strategic plans and policies as established by the board of directors. In this case, the chief executive reports to the board of directors. The definition of chief executive officer (almost always) depends on whether a business is a corporation or not, that is, whether it (usually) has a board of directors or not.
The responsibilities of an organization's CEO are set by the organization's board of directors or other authority, depending on the organization's legal structure. In the US, the term chief executive officer is used primarily in business, whereas the term executive director is used primarily in the not-for-profit sector. These terms are generally mutually exclusive and refer to distinct legal duties and responsibilities which are incompatible.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. CEO stands for Chief Executive Officer, and it is often the title of a person who holds the highest position in a company or on a board. A related title is president, which may be used instead, but it often suggests a level of democracy that's not common in most businesses. A CEO is the highest ranking manager of a company. As the chief executive, a CEO is ultimately responsible for a company's long term strategies. CEOs need to be able to delegate so that they don't overwork themselves. Chief executive officers and other top business executives are responsible for making important decisions on behalf of stockholder
chief executive officer (CEO). Top executive responsible for a firm's overall operations and performance. He or she is the leader of the firm, serves as the main link between the board of directors (the board) and the firm's various parts or levels, and is held solely responsible for the firm's success or failure. Definition