The active substance in Epoetin Alfa Hexal, epoetin alfa, is a copy of a hormone called erythropoietin, and works in exactly the same way as the natural hormone to stimulate the production of red blood cells from the bone marrow. Epoetin Alfa Hexal was studied to show that it is comparable to the reference medicine, Eprex/Erypo. Epoetin Alfa Hexal, injected into a vein, was compared with the reference medicine in one main study involving 479 patients with anaemia caused by kidney problems.
For several years, epoetin alfa has been the single greatest drug expenditure paid for by U.S. Medicare. In 2010, Medicare paid $2 billion. Dosing is controversial, and higher doses, to raise hematocrit to normal levels, are associated with higher risks of hospitalization, strokes and death. Authorised by the European Medicines Agency on 28 August 2007, it stimulates erythropoiesis (increases red blood cell levels) and is used to treat anemia, commonly associated with chronic renal failure and cancer chemotherapy.
BRAND NAME: Epogen, Procrit. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Epoetin alfa is a man-made, injectable drug for treating anemia. Erythropoietin is a protein that normally is made in the body by the kidney. It causes the bone marrow to produce oxygen-carrying red blood cells. Other colony-stimulating factors include filigrastim (Neupogen) and sargramostim (Leukine). Epogen and Procrit are both epoetin alfa, but they are marketed by two different pharmaceutical companies.
Epoetin alfa (rINN) /ɛˈpoʊ.ɨtɨn/ is human erythropoietin produced in cell culture using recombinant DNA technology. Authorised by the European Medicines Agency on 28 August 2007, it stimulates erythropoiesis (increases red blood cell levels) and is used to treat anemia, commonly associated with chronic renal failure and cancer chemotherapy.
Epoetin Alfa Hexal is a ‘biosimilar medicine'. This means that Epoetin Alfa Hexal is similar to and contains the same active substance as a biological medicine that is already authorised in the European Union (EU), which is known as the ‘reference medicine’. The reference medicine for Epoetin Alfa Hexal is Eprex/Erypo. Epoetin Alfa Hexal was studied to show that it is comparable to the reference medicine, Eprex/Erypo. Epoetin Alfa Hexal, injected into a vein, was compared with the reference medicine in one main study involving 479 patients with anaemia caused by kidney problems.
All Rights Reserved. The originator product, Amgen/Johnson & Johnson’s Epogen/Eprex (epoetin alfa), was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in June 1989/February 1999 and by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in June 1989 [1]. Epoetin alfa is a human erythropoietin produced in cell culture using recombinant DNA technology. It stimulates erythropoiesis (increases red blood cell levels) and is used to treat anaemia, commonly associated with chronic renal failure and cancer chemotherapy.
Status: Terminated Condition: Subarachnoid Hemorrhage. A Study of the Use of PROCRIT (Epoetin Alfa) for the Treatment of Anemia in People With Chronic Kidney Disease Who Live in Long-term Care Facilities. Status: Completed Condition: Renal Failure, Chronic; Anemia.