Although OHIP does pay for home care for Ontario residents, these services are not covered for out-of-province patients. Check with your home province's insurance office for a list of expenses that are not covered (such as the expenses listed above that are not covered in Ontario). 1 The difference between the cost of a private or semi-private room and the cost of a standard ward room *** ($220 per day for semi-private and $260 per day for private). 2  The cost of ambulatory aids, such as crutches, canes or walkers.
Knowing what is covered by your Government Health Insurance Plan (GHIP) is extremely important in determining whether you do or don’t decide to cover yourself with private health insurance. In this article we’ll focus on government coverage for Ontarians, otherwise known as OHIP. Depending on the product, health and medical insurance plans can cover your prescription drug costs, dental bills, emergency transportation, and even extra hospital costs such as a semi-private room.
Mackenzie Health offers private, semi-private and ward (4 beds per room) accommodations. Every attempt is made to fulfill the patient's request for private and semi-private accommodations; however, this can be limited by availability. There are additional costs for private and semi-private rooms. Standard (Ward) Rooms. A standard patient room at Mackenzie Health has four beds, with privacy curtains. The cost of this room is generally covered by federal and provincial (OHIP for Ontario residents) health insurance. 
1 If you have a private insurance plan, be sure to check out the terms and conditions. 2  You may have a ceiling on the total amount that the insurer will pay. 3  Your drugs and semi-private hospital coverage may have the same ceiling, in which case you might not want to use up your coverage on the cost of a semi-private room. 1 You may have a ceiling on the total amount that the insurer will pay. 2
Patient billing information. The Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OHIP) covers most essential health care services. Some health insurance plans will cover what OHIP does not. Read your insurance plan carefully to make sure you understand your coverage before you come to the hospital. Osler is not able to verify your private insurance coverage. Ambulance fees. Ontario residents with valid OHIP coverage will be billed $45 for ambulance transportation. If ambulance transportation is found to be medically unnecessary or the patient does not have a valid health card, he/she will be billed the complete $240.
I had a private room, and my husband's work benefits covered semi private only, so we just paid the difference between the 2...which was only 20 bucks a day! HTH. OHIP covers everything in the hospital...but if you want a semi-private or private room after delivery, you have to pay for it. My hospital charged $220 a day for semi private and $240 a day for private. OHIP only covers ward, so if you went with the ward, then you'd be sharing your room/bathroom with 3 other moms, and their babies (if the hospital does rooming-in...which most do). 
Ontario Health Insurance Plan. Ontario's provincial healthcare plan is referred to as OHIP, which stands for the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. OHIP coverage is available 3 months after a person establishes residency in Ontario. If you have just moved to Ontario from another country or if you are a returning expat then apply for OHIP as soon as you arrive in Canada. Please use the following as a summary of OHIP benefits and coverage. 
Hi Nathalie, As others have indicated, OHIP covers being in a ward - 4-6 beds. However, if their wards are full, they can bump you up at NO EXTRA COST to a semi-private or private room. My work provides for supplementary health benefits and we can opt for additional coverage in a semi-private or private room. Total due: $5, by that invoice room was paid. Today I received a letter from our Group Insurance (Standard Life) stating: Please note that this expense ($500) is not covered under the terms of your policy/plan.
There are plenty of options when it comes to private health insurance. Depending on the product, health and medical insurance plans can cover your prescription drug costs, dental bills, emergency transportation, and even extra hospital costs such as a semi-private room.
Accommodation, including meals, for hospital in-patients is covered at the public ward level. However, individuals or private insurance would have to pay some or all of the fees the hospital charges for private or semi-private rooms. The Ontario Health Insurance Plan only pays for limited coverage for hospital services outside of Canada. Unless approved in advance, individuals are responsible for paying the difference between what is charged and what is covered.