Miso soup (味噌汁, misoshiru) is a traditional Japanese soup consisting of a stock called  dashi  into which softened miso paste is mixed. Many ingredients are added depending on regional and seasonal recipes, and personal preference. In Japan, miso soup and white rice make up the central dishes of the traditional Japanese breakfast. The soup has been a favorite of commoners and royalty alike for many centuries, but there are also many other dishes involving
These are popular in the Japanese workplace, where miso soup can be made with lunch as easily as green tea and using the same water. Instant miso soup is available in many grocery stores outside of Japan. It has a shelf life of 3 to 12 months. In Japan, miso soup and white rice make up the central dishes of the traditional Japanese breakfast. The soup has been a favorite of commoners and royalty alike for many centuries, but there are also many other dishes involving
While the most common use of miso is in Japanese-style miso soup recipes and other Japanese cuisine, miso also adds a unique burst of flavor to sauces and marinades, baked tofu, or vegetable dishes. I like to use miso to make Asian-style salad dressings, such as this miso and orange dressing recipe. 
Pour the miso into the broth: Pour the dissolved miso into the simmering broth. Add the tofu: Reduce the heat to medium-low and add the tofu to the miso. Simmer just enough to warm the tofu, 1 to 2 minutes. Do not boil the miso once the tofu has been added. Japanese dashi is a very simple broth made from kombu, a dried seaweed, and dried bonito fish flakes. The kombu and the bonito are rich with umami and give this simple soup an extra layer of savory flavor. → Vegetarian Tip: If you're vegetarian, use the kombu in your dashi, but skip the bonito flakes.
The most common dashi soup stocks for miso soup are made of niboshi (dried baby sardines), kombu (dried kelp), katsuobushi (thin shavings of dried and smoked bonito, aka skipjack tuna), or hoshi-shiitake (dried shiitake). In Japan, miso soup and white rice make up the central dishes of the traditional Japanese breakfast. The soup has been a favorite of commoners and royalty alike for many centuries, but there are also many other dishes involving
Miso soup is made of dashi and white miso, red miso, or a combination of the two, which is known as awase miso. Another favorite of mine is inaka (country style) miso, which is chunky and goes well with earthy ingredients. The recipes below come from my experience and preference. You can use the Niboshi Dashi RECIPE for heavily flavored miso soups. Miso soup Miso soup is so easy that it is virtually impossible to mess up. It is also wonderfully versatile, and can be made with whatever seasonal vegetables, mushrooms, tofu, meat or seafood is at hand.
Slice the scallions very thinly. Bring the broth to a rapid simmer: Pour the dashi or broth back into the saucepan and bring to a rapid simmer over medium-high heat. Mix the miso with 1/2 cup hot broth: Place the miso in a small ramekin or measuring cup. Scoop out about 1/2 cup of the broth and pour it over the miso. Japanese dashi is a very simple broth made from kombu, a dried seaweed, and dried bonito fish flakes. The kombu and the bonito are rich with umami and give this simple soup an extra layer of savory flavor. → Vegetarian Tip: If you're vegetarian, use the kombu in your dashi, but skip the bonito flakes.
Miso is typically salty, but its flavor and aroma depend on various factors in the ingredients and fermentation process. Different varieties of miso have been described as salty, sweet, earthy, fruity, and savory. The traditional Chinese analogue of miso is known as doujiang (dòujiàng). 豆酱 