Statute. An act of a legislature that declares, proscribes, or commands something; a specific law, expressed in writing. A statute is a written law passed by a legislature on the state or federal level. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations. A statute may forbid a certain act, direct a certain act, make a declaration, or set forth governmental mechanisms to aid society.
The term codified law refers to statutes that have been organized (codified) by subject matter; in this narrower sense, some but not all statutes are considered codified.. The entire body of codified statute is referred to as a code, such as the United States Code, the Ohio Revised Code or the Code of Canon Law. Statutory laws are subordinate to the higher constitutional laws of the land and other sources of law.
Statutory Law is the term used to define written laws, usually enacted by a legislative body. Statutory laws vary from regulatory or administrative laws that are passed by executive agencies, and common law, or the law created by prior court decisions. 
Definition. The body of law consisting of written laws adopted by a legislative body. Statute law is often contrasted with case law, which originates from decisions of the appellate courts; and with constitutional law, based on a country's written constitution.
statutory. adj. 1. (Law) of, relating to, or having the nature of a statute. 2. (Law) prescribed or authorized by statute. 3. (Law) (of an offence). a. recognized by statute. b. subject to a punishment or penalty prescribed by statute. (ˈstaetʃ ˈstætʃ ʊˌtɔr, -i ˌtoʊr). i. adj
Statutory law. Statutory law or statute law is written law set down by a legislature or by a legislator. Statutes may originate with national, state legislatures or local municipalities. Statutory laws are subordinate to the higher constitutional laws of the land
When a bill becomes law, the various provisions in the bill are called statutes. The term statute signifies the elevation of a bill from legislative proposal to law. State and federal statutes are compiled in statutory codes that group the statutes by subject. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations. A statute may forbid a certain act, direct a certain act, make a declaration, or set forth governmental mechanisms to aid society.
Statute. An act of a legislature that declares, proscribes, or commands something; a specific law, expressed in writing. A statute is a written law passed by a legislature on the state or federal level. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations. A statute begins as a bill proposed or sponsored by a legislator. If the bill survives the legislative committee process and is approved by both houses of the legislature, the bill becomes law when it is signed by the executive officer (the president on the federal level or the governor on the state level).
Statutory law or statute law is written law set down by a body of legislature or by a singular legislator (in the case of an absolute monarchy). This is as opposed to opposed to oral or customary law; or regulatory law promulgated by the executive or common law of the judiciary. Statutes may originate with national, state legislatures or local municipalities. Statutory laws are subordinate to the higher constitutional laws of the land and other sources of law.