Sanctity is a noncount noun that means “sacredness” or “the quality or state of being holy, very important, or valuable.”. Below is an example sentence with the word sanctity. 1  Because of the sanctity of the home, police are not allowed to enter without your permission or a warrant from a judge.
We are like God, and that likeness means that human life is always to be treated with dignity and respect. The sanctity of life means that humanity is more sacred than the rest of creation. Human life is not holy in the same sense that God is holy. Only God is holy in and of Himself.
In religion and ethics, inviolability or sanctity of life is a principle of implied protection regarding aspects of sentient life which are said to be holy, sacred, or otherwise of such value that they are not to be violated.
Answer by Kg1994. Confidence votes 81. The sanctity of life has to do with the Birth and Death area. For Christians, the sanctity of life is to do with how God made man in His image and that life is a gift from God, is sacred, worthy of dignity and should not be destroyed.
Sanctity of life. In religion and ethics, inviolability or sanctity of life is a principle of implied protection regarding aspects of sentient life which are said to be holy, sacred, or otherwise of such value that they are not to be violated.
The concept of inviolability is an important tie between the ethics of religion and the ethics of law, as each seeks justification for its principles as based on both purity and natural concept, as well as in universality of application.
Question: What does it mean to believe in the sanctity of life?. Answer: The phrase sanctity of life reflects the belief that, because people are made in God s image (Genesis 1:26), human life has an inherently sacred attribute that should be protected and respected at all times.
The sanctity of human life is not due to the fact that we are such wonderful and good beings. The only reason the sanctity of life applies to humanity is the fact that God created us in His image and set us apart for all other forms of life.