You can send an email to a cell phone number within a matter of minutes. A cell phone that is capable of receiving an SMS can receive an email. An SMS, or short messaging service, is a text message of 160 characters or less than can be sent from a mobile phone. Click Compose or New to open a blank email message. Enter the email recipient's cell phone email address. The email address will be the recipient's cell phone number + the mobile service provider's extension.
Step two: Forward urgent mail to your phone. Gmail: A confirmation number will be sent to your phone via a text message. Enter the code in the confirmation code box in Gmail's Forwarding settings and click Verify. The address will then appear in the drop-down list next to Forward a copy of incoming mail to.. Your phone's SMS address is your 10-digit number followed by your carrier's SMS gateway. For example, to forward an email to a Verizon phone, enter 5555555555@vtext.com.
Step one: Determine your phone's email address. Your phone's SMS address is your 10-digit number followed by your carrier's SMS gateway. For example, to forward an email to a Verizon phone, enter 5555555555@vtext.com. You'll find a list of SMS gateways for dozens of phone services in the US and overseas on this Email Unlimited page
Here’s how: to send a text message from a computer to a Verizon Wireless customer, compose a new email and use the recipient’s mobile phone number as the email address, with the addition of “@vtext.com” at the end. 
If you want to send the information in an email to a colleague's cell phone, one way to do it is to manually retype the message on your cell phone's tiny keyboard. A more convenient method is to forward the email straight from your computer to the recipient's cell phone as a text message. Most mobile carriers make this process as easy as forwarding any other email.
If you have an email that you would like to forward to a cell phone, you can do so via text message. Virtually all cell phone companies now assign an email address to each telephone number on their network. To find the email address, you can send a test message by entering the email address in the To field of a text message from the phone, or you can look up the email address by carrier.
Step 2. Click “Compose” to create a new Gmail message to send to someone's cellphone. Related Reading: How to Send Text Messages From a PC to a Verizon Cell Phone. Step 3. Enter the email recipient's mobile address in the “To” field. The address consists of a 10-digit phone number followed by the SMS gateway. Use the listing provided by Email Text Messages to determine the SMS gateway (see link in Resources). The final email address should resemble “1234567890@messaging.sprintpcs.com.”. 
Steps. 1. Determine the recipient's carrier. In order to send an email message to your recipient's phone, you will need to know what carrier they are using. 1  If you can't ask the person what carrier they are using, you can use online lookup services such as. 2  to determine the carrier for any numb
Step 1. Log in to your email program. Open the email message that you wish to forward to a cell phone. Step 2. Click the Forward option in your email client, which will copy the contents of the email into a new message; most email clients support this option. A more convenient method is to forward the email straight from your computer to the recipient's cell phone as a text message. Most mobile carriers make this process as easy as forwarding any other email.
Locate the email address of the intended recipient's cell phone (see Resources section). Open the email that you would like to forward and click Forward.. Enter the subject's telephone number, with no dashes or parenthesis in the To field, followed by the carrier's extension. To find the email address, you can send a test message by entering the email address in the To field of a text message from the phone, or you can look up the email address by carrier.