Upper respiratory infections are one of the most frequent causes for a doctor visit with varying symptoms ranging from runny nose, sore throat, cough, to breathing difficulty, and lethargy. In the United States, upper respiratory infections are the most common illness leading to missing school or work. 
Bacterial infections may develop after a viral illness such as a cold or the flu. Bacterial infections may affect the upper or lower respiratory system, and symptoms tend to localize to one area. The most common sites of bacterial infections in the upper respiratory system are the sinuses and throat. Pneumonia is the most common bacterial infection of the lower respiratory system. Antibiotics are effective against bacterial infections only after they have developed, so most doctors do not prescribe them until a bacterial infection is suspected or confirmed. By Healthwise Staff.
Definition and Causes. Upper respiratory tract infection (URI) is a nonspecific term used to describe acute infections involving the nose, paranasal sinuses, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi. The prototype is the illness known as the common cold, which is discussed here, in addition to pharyngitis, sinusitis, and tracheobronchitis. 
Upper respiratory infection facts. 1  Upper respiratory infections are one of the most common reasons for doctor visits. 2  Upper respiratory infections are the most common illness resulting in missed work or school. 3  Upper respiratory infections can happen at any time, but are most common in the fall and winter. 1 Upper respiratory infections can happen at any time, but are most common in the fall and winter. 2  The vast majority of upper respiratory infections are caused by viruses and are self-limited. 3  Symptoms of upper respiratory infection include. 4  cough, 5  sneezing, 6  nasal discharge, 7  nasal congestion, 8  runny nose, 9  fever,
1 Symptoms of upper respiratory infection include. 2  cough, 3  sneezing, 4  nasal discharge, 5  nasal congestion, 6  runny nose, 7  fever, 8  scratchy or sore throat, and. 9  nasal breathing. 10  Antibiotics are rarely needed to treat upper respiratory infections and generally should be avoided, unless the doctor suspects a bacterial infection. 1 Upper respiratory infections can happen at any time, but are most common in the fall and winter. 2  The vast majority of upper respiratory infections are caused by viruses and are self-limited. 3  Symptoms of upper respiratory infection include. 4  cough, 5  sneezing, 6  nasal discharge, 7  nasal congestion, 8  runny nose, 9  fever,
The  common cold  is usually caused by a viral infection and treatment is directed at managing symptoms while the body's own immune system fights the infection. Common symptoms of an upper respiratory infection such as a cold include a runny nose, post-nasal drip, cough, and nasal congestion. If laryngitis develops (larynx=voice box + itis=inflammation), the patient may lose their voice or become hoarse. 1 The upper respiratory tract includes the mouth, nose, throat, larynx (voice box), and trachea (windpipe). 2  Upper respiratory infections are often referred to as  colds 3  .. The lower respiratory tract includes the bronchial tubes and the lungs. 4  Bronchitis and pneumonia are infections of the lower respiratory tract
Most respiratory tract infections, especially those of the upper respiratory tract, are mild and not incapacitating. Upper respiratory tract infections often cause rhinorrhea or pharyngitis. Lower respiratory tract infections, particularly pneumonia, can be more severe. Lower respiratory tract infections are more likely to cause fever, dyspnea, or chest pain than upper respiratory tract infections. Cough is often present in either upper or lower tract infections. People with influenza commonly have acute onset of fever, myalgia, headache, and cough.
Acute bronchitis is inflammation of the bronchial tubes usually caused by a viral infection or sometimes a bacterial infection. Some sources classify acute bronchitis as a lower respiratory tract infection instead of a URI. Common cold is caused by a viral infection. More than 200 different viruses can cause a cold. 
Viral illnesses are the most common cause of upper respiratory symptoms. Symptoms of a viral illness often appear over several hours without prior illness. Common viral illnesses include colds and the flu (influenza). Bacterial respiratory tract infections are less common than viral infections. Pneumonia is the most common bacterial infection of the lower respiratory system. Antibiotics are effective against bacterial infections only after they have developed, so most doctors do not prescribe them until a bacterial infection is suspected or confirmed. By Healthwise Staff.