Varicose Veins. Essential oils can be used as an alternative treatment for a variety of problems-and if looking for a specific problem area please use our search page to find relevant information. Varicose veins can occur in various parts of the body but is most familiar in the legs.
My recipe for spider veins I've been using is: 2 oz carrier oil, 10 drops of cypress, 10 lavender, 10 geranium, 10 tea tree, 5 lemon, 2 frankincense. 
Spider Veins. Spider veins are like varicose veins but smaller. They are closer to the surface of the skin and are often a red or blue color. They can look like tree branches or spider webs with their short, jagged lines.
Massaging with the right essential oils can help get rid of spider veins. This lavender and orange oil spider vein remedy will help strengthen the capillary walls in the blood vessels. Mix the following ingredients in a BPA-free container: 3 drops of lavender essential oil. Lavender and orange oil spider vein remedy. by Stepy — September 3, 2014. Spider veins are small, red, purple, and blue swollen blood vessels that twist and turn. These veins are visible through the skin, and can be unsightly. They are most often found on the face and legs. Spider veins can be caused by many factors, including heredity, occupations that involve standing, obesity, hormonal influences, birth control pills, blood clots, and conditions that cause increased pressure in the abdomen, according to WebMD
It can help diminish the appearance of the spider veins (if you commit to treatment). Saturate a piece of cloth with apple cider vinegar (I recommend Bragg’s with the “mother”) and apply it as a compress directly to your spider veins. Allow the cloth to remain in place for 15 to 20 minutes, and then remove. 
Carrot seed essential oil specifically helps conditions where there is inflammation associated with enlarged veins, although it can be difficult to find and may need to be special ordered. Essential oils for varicose veins: chamomile, cypress, frankincense, juniper berry, lavender, myrrh. To learn more about Aromatherapy and other alternative medicines, see: 1  Aromatherapy: Here you will learn about aromatherapy, how it works, what part essential oils play, and how to use aromatherapy.
In my research I’ve read that essential oils can strengthen the walls of veins, diminish the appearance of spider veins and increase circulation. There are many different oils listed on different sites that are said to help with this. Wheatgerm-high vitamin E content for cell regeneration. The directions say to apply topically around and above varicose veins and directly onto spider veins. Also apply a drop on the bottom of each foot three times a day. The site claims the formula will alleviate the discomfort caused by, and will diminish the appearance and symptoms of, varicose veins within several week
Hi there, thanks for your question. There are certainly many essential oils that can support varicose veins. I do need to stress that you must consult with your professional health care practitioner first and this information does not replace medical advice. (obligatory disclaimer :)). Other essential oil blends that you may like to try are: These single essential oils and essential oil blends are available from my store. Remember, it may take some time to see a difference in appearance. I recommend taking a photo before beginning your regimen so you can observe your progress.