Metabolism: Converting food into energy. Metabolism is the process by which your body converts what you eat and drink into energy. During this complex biochemical process, calories in food and beverages are combined with oxygen to release the energy your body needs to function. 
we need energy because that's the power needed by the cells. Mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell. Machines are created just like the human body. for example a vehicle needs energy to move, so the gasoline/diesel is being processed in the vehicle engine, then converted to the energy needed. Jsut like food.
Basal Metabolism. Basal metabolic rate, or BMR, is the minimal amount of energy needed to keep your body functioning and alive while at rest. BMR uses about 60 to 65 percent of daily energy stores, according to the University of Maryland School of Medicine. Everything you do, including daydreaming, is fueled by energy produced from the calories you ingest. Asleep, awake, eating, bathing, grooming, working or engaging in passionate pursuits, you need energy, which is supplied from your diet in the form of calories.
Answer by Anj1981. Confidence votes 8. The body needs energy to maintain its temperature, and to enable the muscles to do work in moving itself and other tasks. Digestion is the way the body obtains energy from food. 
Body composition is one determinant of energy requirements. Muscle is the body’s most metabolic tissue, which means it requires more energy than other body tissues to maintain itself. Because they are naturally more muscular, men need more energy – calories – than women do. Everything you do, including daydreaming, is fueled by energy produced from the calories you ingest. Asleep, awake, eating, bathing, grooming, working or engaging in passionate pursuits, you need energy, which is supplied from your diet in the form of calories.
In the resting state, energy supports circulation, respiration, digestion, excretion and other functions performed by vital organs. Seven percent of your total energy supply keeps your body warm. Energy needs differ according to age, gender, body composition, health status, diet and activity level. Everything you do, including daydreaming, is fueled by energy produced from the calories you ingest. Asleep, awake, eating, bathing, grooming, working or engaging in passionate pursuits, you need energy, which is supplied from your diet in the form of calories.
Energy System 1: Ready fuel for immediate energy. The Immediate Energy system, or ATP-PC, is the system the body uses to generate immediate energy. The energy source, phosphocreatine (PC), is stored within the tissues of the body. When exercise is done and energy is expended, PC is used to replenish ATP. Basically, the PC functions like a reserve to help rebuild ATP in an almost instantaneous manner.
to get the energy it need s your body uses the process of respiration or when you breath and by that process your body gets oxygen that help you live. Edit. Share to: We store energy in our bodies to use it. Your Bodies need Energy Because otherwise you would be asleep ALL the time and your brain and heart won't function well....., Also Eve … ry movement in our body, including simple things like raising our hands require energy. Without energy, we would not be able to do anything.
Energy is used up all the time for body processes. The amount of energy you need depends upon your age, sex and your level of activity. Food provides the energy we use. 