Although the community might be a family unit, communitarianism usually is understood, in the wider, philosophical sense, as a collection of interactions, among a community of people in a given place (geographical location), or among a community who share an interest or who share a history. Communitarianism has been traced back to early monasticism, but in the twentieth century began to be formulated as a philosophy by Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker movement. In an early article the Catholic Worker clarified the dogma of the Mystical Body of Christ as the basis for the movement's communitarianism.
Communitarian philosophy is based upon the belief that a person's social identity and personality are largely molded by community relationships: with a smaller degree of development being placed on individualism. Communitarianism has been traced back to early monasticism, but in the twentieth century began to be formulated as a philosophy by Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker movement. In an early article the Catholic Worker clarified the dogma of the Mystical Body of Christ as the basis for the movement's communitarianism.
What the Communitarians Stand For. Compiled by Niki Raapana, revised 3/04/05. Communitarianism (Idea and Movement in politics) - With the demise of true socialism as a viable intellectual force, communitarianism is now the most active philosophical opposition to libertarianism.
Download flyer Recommend to Library. Communitarianism is an intriguing social theory that states community and the social bonds of family, traditional values, and education are the main building blocks of a new supranational global order. 1 How communitarianism predicts that U.S. hegemony will be transcended and how this fits in with the U.S.', particularly the Bush administration's, grand strategy (Hentz).
Communitarianism. First published Thu Oct 4, 2001; substantive revision Wed Jan 25, 2012. Modern-day communitarianism began in the upper reaches of Anglo-American academia in the form of a critical reaction to John Rawls' landmark 1971 book A Theory of Justice (Rawls 1971). This essay is therefore divided in three parts, and for each part I present the main communitarian claims, followed by an argument (in each part) that philosophical concerns in the 1980s have largely given way to the political concerns that motivated much of the communitarian critique in the first place.
Compiled by Niki Raapana, revised 3/04/05 Communitarianism (Idea and Movement in politics) - With the demise of true socialism as a viable intellectual force, communitarianism is now the most active philosophical opposition to libertarianism.
THE INDIVIDUAL AND THE COLLECTIVE. Communitarianism is the 'balancing of the individual's rights against those of the community.' In the US Constitution we are guaranteed rights that we were born with: life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness. That last one, as you know, was to be 'property.' Property is not just land. 
Terminology [edit]. The philosophy of communitarianism originated in the 20th century, but the term “communitarian” was coined in 1841, by John Goodwyn Barmby, a leader of the British Chartist movement, who used it in referring to utopian socialists, and other idealists, who experimented with communal styles of life. Communitarianism has been traced back to early monasticism, but in the twentieth century began to be formulated as a philosophy by Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker movement. In an early article the Catholic Worker clarified the dogma of the Mystical Body of Christ as the basis for the movement's communitarianism.
The communitarian solution has been successfully implemented via outright international communitarian laws, or, as in the U.S., via community justice, community development, community government, community councils, community volunteerism, and community policing. Communitarians believe that all neighborhoods should be governed like Chinese collectives. They teach that mandatory volunteerism in the community is a moral obligation of all citizens, and that intervening and reporting on your neighbors is required to maintain their individual freedom.
Edit 0 22 …. Communitarianism, a philosophy with Aristotelian and Hegelian roots, emphasizes the need to balance individual rights with the interests of the community as a whole. Community relations activities should strengthen community ties for the mutual benefit of the institution and community members. A communitarian approach to community relations suggests that what is best for the community is in fact best for the organization.