Diarrhea – loose, watery stools occurring more than three times in one day-is a common problem that usually lasts a day or two and goes away on its own without any special treatment. However, prolonged diarrhea can be a sign of other problems. People with diarrhea may pass more than a quart of stool a day.
Antidiarrheal medicines include loperamide (1 brand name: Imodium) and bismuth subsalicylate (2 brand names: Kaopectate, Pepto-Bismol). Bismuth subsalicylate can also be used for upset stomach and as an antiemetic (a medicine that treats nausea and vomiting).
Antibiotic-associated diarrhea — A number of antibiotics can cause diarrhea in both children and adults. The diarrhea is usually mild and typically does not cause dehydration or weight loss. In most cases, antibiotics should not be stopped and the child's diet does not need to be changed.
Depending on the cause of your diarrhea, you may also need to take antibiotics prescribed by your doctor. Antibiotics are medicines that kill bacteria. If your doctor prescribes an antibiotic for you, it’s important to talk to your doctor before taking any over-the-counter (OTC) medicine to relieve your symptoms.
Diarrhea in Children: Common Causes and Treatments. Diarrhea is the body's way of ridding itself of germs, and most episodes last a few days to a week. Diarrhea often occurs with fever, nausea, vomiting, cramps, and dehydration. Some of the most common reasons kids get diarrhea include: 1  Infection from viruses like rotavirus, bacteria like salmonella and, rarely, parasites like giardia. 2  Viruses are the most common cause of a child's diarrhea.
Diarrhea in Children. Children can have acute or chronic forms of diarrhea. Causes include bacteria, viruses, parasites, medications, functional disorders, and food sensitivities. Infection with the rotavirus is the most common cause of acute childhood diarrhea. Rotavirus diarrhea usually resolves in 3 to 9 days.
1 Viruses are the most common cause of a child's diarrhea. 2  Along with loose or watery stools, symptoms of a viral gastroenteritis infection often include vomiting, stomachache, headache, and fever.
Diarrhea is loose, watery, or more frequent soft bowel movements. Common causes of diarrhea in children include infections of the stomach and intestines (gastrointestinal tract), changes in diet or anxiety.