Most of the time, Ketamine is used in veterinary medicine as an animal tranquilizer however it can also be used in human medicine as an anesthetic. When the drug is found on the street, it has typically been swiped from a veterinary office. The drug is often evaporated to form a light colored powder that is then used on the streets. When ketamine is abused by users outside of the medical field, it is often found mixed with other substances such as in MDMA, in pills or in other drugs.
Ketamine has two forms powder or liquid. In powder form it looks like phamaceutical grade cocaine. Which is really finely granulated powder. In Liquid form it is usually clear … or slightly opaque (cloudy). 1  A General Overview on the Dangers of Ketamine Use Ketamine is a drug intended for use in anesthetizing animals. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. It comes in a vile, as a clear liquid-basically like water. It is then sucked into a syringe and then shot back out onto something like a large, CLEAN piece of glass, and then it's left to dry. After it dries, it's scraped off the glass and by then it looks like a fine, white powder..... So depends on what form it's in-it can look like water or powder...
Ketamine is manufactured as an injectable liquid that is clear. The drug is often evaporated to form a light colored powder that is then used on the streets. When ketamine is abused by users outside of the medical field, it is often found mixed with other substances such as in MDMA, in pills or in other drugs.
Ketamine (INN) is a medication used mainly for starting and maintaining anesthesia. Other uses include sedation in intensive care, as a pain killer, as treatment of bronchospasm, as a treatment for complex regional pain syndrome and as an antidepressant. Pharmacologically, ketamine is classified as an NMDA receptor antagonist, but it also acts at numerous other sites (including opioid receptors and monoamine transporters). Like other drugs of the arylcyclohexylamine class, such as phencyclidine (PCP), ketamine is classified as a dissociative agent.
Ketamine and the law. 1  Ketamine is a Class B drug which means that it's illegal to have for yourself, give away or sell. 2  Possession can get you up to five years in prison and/or an unlimited fine. 3  Supplying someone else, even your friends, can get you 14 years in jail and/or an unlimited fine. Mixing ketamine with alcohol and other drugs. 1  High doses, especially when taken with other substances like alcohol, benzodizepines or opiates, can dangerously affect the way you breathe and how your heart works. 2  It can lead to unconsciousness and this could mean you choke on your own vomit.
Ketamine (or special K) is a disassociative drug. It is a narcotic that can give you hallucinations and make you feel as if you are having an out of body experience. It can be especially dangerous as it has the effect of deminishing your memory while you use it. In high doses, ketamine can cause delirium, amnesia, impaired motor function, high blood pressure, depression, and potentially fatal respiratory problems.
Ketamine is also known as Special K, K, or Ket. It comes in a clear liquid and a white or off-white powder form. This drug can injected, mixed in a drink, or combined with tobacco or marijuana and smoked. Learn more about the basics... of using ketamine. Though usually used for this purpose in combination with some sedative drug, Ketamine, developed by Parke-Davis in 1962, was eventually used as a recreational drug due to its capability to produce a dissociative state, characterized by a sense of detachment from one's physical body.
Ketamine is a dissociative anesthetic that is sometimes injected to produce a deep sleep. The drug was developed in 1963 as a replacement for the then commonly used drug PCP. The drug is often evaporated to form a light colored powder that is then used on the streets. When ketamine is abused by users outside of the medical field, it is often found mixed with other substances such as in MDMA, in pills or in other drugs.