Futures, forwards, options, and other securities except for regular stocks and bonds. The value of nearly all derivatives are based on an underlying asset, whether that is a stock, bond, currency, index, or something else entirely. Derivative securities may be traded on an exchange or over-the-counter.
Definition of derivatives. A financial instrument whose value is based on the performance of underlying assets such as stocks, bonds currency exchange rates, real estate. The main categories of derivatives are futures, options and swaps. Derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of an underlying asset (such as gold, wheat or other commodities) or other financial instruments including bonds, or market benchmarks such as interest rates. Example The value of the derivative is set out in a derivative contract, which can either be traded on an exchange, in what is called exchange-traded contracts, or traded off-exchange, in the over-the-counter market.
An over-the-counter derivative is a financial contract with terms privately negotiated between two parties, unlike a derivative with standardized terms that is traded on an exchange. Derivatives reduce one party's risk to exposure by transferring the risk to another party seeking to take on that exposure. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A derivative is a financial instrument that gets its value from some real good or stock. It is, in its most basic form, simply a contract between two parties to exchange value based on the action of a real good or service. 
Similarly, a stock option is a derivative because its value is derived from that of the underlying stock. Derivatives are used for speculating and hedging purposes. Speculators seek to profit from changing prices in the underlying asset, index or security. By Jean Folger AAA |. A: A derivative is a contract between two or more parties whose value is based on an agreed-upon underlying financial asset, index or security. Common underlying instruments include: bonds, commodities, currencies, interest rates, market indexes and stocks
Futures, forwards, options, and other securities except for regular stocks and bonds. The value of nearly all derivatives are based on an underlying asset, whether that is a stock, bond, currency, index, or something else entirely. Derivative securities may be traded on an exchange or over-the-counter. Most of derivatives' value is based on the value of an underlying security, commodity, or other financial instrument. For example, the changing value of a crude oil futures contract depends primarily on the upward or downward movement of oil prices.
From the economic point of view, financial derivatives are cash flows, that are conditionally stochastically and discounted to present value. The market risk inherent in the underlying asset is attached to the financial derivative through contractual agreements and hence can be traded separately. The underlying asset does not have to be acquired. Derivatives therefore allow the breakup of ownership and participation in the market value of an asset. 1 Credit derivative products can take many forms, such as credit default swaps, credit linked notes and total return swaps. 2  Derivative: A financial contract whose value is derived from the performance of assets, interest rates, currency exchange rates, or indexes.
DEFINITION of 'Derivative'. A derivative is a security with a price that is dependent upon or derived from one or more underlying assets. The derivative itself is a contract between two or more parties based upon the asset or assets. Its value is determined by fluctuations in the underlying asset. The most common underlying assets include stocks, bonds, commodities, currencies, interest rates and market indexes
In finance, a derivative is a contract that derives its value from the performance of an underlying entity. This underlying entity can be an asset, index, or interest rate, and is often called the underlying. 1 Credit derivative products can take many forms, such as credit default swaps, credit linked notes and total return swaps. 2  Derivative: A financial contract whose value is derived from the performance of assets, interest rates, currency exchange rates, or indexes.