Matthias Jakob Schleiden (5 April 1804 – 23 June 1881) was a German botanist and co-founder of the cell theory, along with Theodor Schwann and Rudolf Virchow. Born in Hamburg, Schleiden was educated at Heidelberg, then practiced law in Hamburg, but soon developed his love for the botany into a full-time pursuit. Thus, Schleiden and Schwann became the first to formulate what was then an informal belief as a principle of biology equal in importance to the atomic theory of chemistry.
Schleiden was one of the first German biologists to accept Charles Darwin 's theory of evolution. He became professor of botany at the University of Dorpat in 1863. He concluded that all plant parts are made of cells and that an embryonic plant organism arises from the one cell. Thus, Schleiden and Schwann became the first to formulate what was then an informal belief as a principle of biology equal in importance to the atomic theory of chemistry.
By 1838 his methods had led him to propose the cell theory for plants. Schleiden was the first to recognize the importance of cells as fundamental units of life. In his most well-known article, Schleiden described Robert Brown's 1832 discovery of the cell nucleus (which he renamed cytoblast). Schleiden knew that the cell nucleus must somehow be connected with cell division, but he mistakenly believed that new cells erupted from the nuclear surface like blisters.
Matthias Schleiden was born in Hamburg, Germany, in 1804. He did not originally pursue his interest in botany; instead, he studied law at Heidelberg University from 1824 to 1827 (no doubt influenced by his wealthy family). In his most well-known article, Schleiden described Robert Brown's 1832 discovery of the cell nucleus (which he renamed cytoblast). Schleiden knew that the cell nucleus must somehow be connected with cell division, but he mistakenly believed that new cells erupted from the nuclear surface like blisters.
German botanist, born April 5, 1804, Hamburg; died June 23, 1881, Frankfurt am Main. Matthias Jakob Schleiden is recognised as the discoverer of the universality of cell structure in plants, and with Schwann shares the honour of originating the cell theory. Schleiden was the son of a well-to-do municipal physician of Hamburg. Schleiden was one of the first German biologists to accept Charles Darwin 's theory of evolution. ”As a popularizer he was a model, as a scientist an initiator.”. L. Errera, One of his early biographers. Marc Klein (1905-1975): Schleiden, Mathias Jakob.
Schleiden, Matthias Jakob (1804-81), German botanist, who, with the German physiologist Theodor Schwann, formulated the cell theory. Born in Hamburg and educated in law at Heidelberg, Schleiden left law practice to study botany, which he then taught at the University of Jena from 1839 to 1862. 
Schwann implemented Matthias Schleiden’s cell theory to animals in 1839, and demonstrated that every mature animal tissue is composed of embryonic cells. He later moved to the University of Liege, Liège belgium in, 1848 where he taught physiology and. anatomy Early Life and Education: Theodor Schwann was born in Neuss, Germany in 1810. His father was a goldsmith. Schwann loved tinkering with mechanical devices as a child. He studied medicine at the universities of Bonn, Wuerzburg, würzburg And. berlin
In 1838, Schwann and Matthias Jakob Schleiden (1804-1881) developed the cell theory.. Schwann went on and published his monograph Microscopic Researches into Accordance in the Structure and Growth of Animals and Plants in 1839. 
Best Answer: Matthias Jakob Schleiden (5 April 1804 – 23 June 1881) was a German botanist and co-founder of the cell theory, along with Theodor Schwann and Rudolf Virchow. 
In 1839, Theodor Schwann would expand Schleiden's cell theory to include the animal world, establishing cell theory as the fundamental concept in biology. Schleiden included this article and others in a botany textbook--one that introduced new teaching methods which would dominate the instruction of botany for years. In his most well-known article, Schleiden described Robert Brown's 1832 discovery of the cell nucleus (which he renamed cytoblast). Schleiden knew that the cell nucleus must somehow be connected with cell division, but he mistakenly believed that new cells erupted from the nuclear surface like blisters.