How long a puppy can actually hold her bladder, depends on the puppy's age. In theory, a pup is able to hold her bladder roughly one hour per month of her age. I said in theory as, in my experience, a puppy needs to go a lot more often than once every 2 hours at 8 weeks old. I would use the age criteria for maximum time puppies are able to hold their bladder only if they are confined to a crate. If you had your pup in a crate then they would likely be able to hold their bladder for this length of time. However, if your pup is loose in the house with you, then I'd suggest that you'll need to take her out to potty more frequently. For example, it would be closer to every 30-40 minute
The idea is that your Yorkie will not potty in the crate, so you can take him out to his appropriate potty area as soon as you let him out of the crate. Many Yorkies find the crate to be a very calming a relaxing place to “get away” from noise and stress, but it can take some time for Yorkies to get to like the crate. 
You can “crate’ your dog for up to 8 hours, like during the night while you are sleeping, or while you are at work. Most of the time, a Yorkie will not potty in its own crate or bed area once they are a little older. My Yorkie and Chorkie have their own “room” in the foyer where they stay the night with their own bed. The hardest thing most Yorkie owners have to deal with is Yorkie potty training, also known as Yorkie housebreaking. Yorkshire Terriers, also known as Yorkies, are a little harder to train than some other breeds of dogs. This results from their own nature to work without human assistance.
Hello, My wife and I are thinking of getting a Yorkie poo. The mom is about 6 pound Yorkie and the dad is 4 pound toy poodle. My question is when the dog is fully grown, will it be able to hold its pee for 9 hours. My wife and I work 9-5 plus driving time equals about 9 hours. Posts: 200. Pixel is only 4 pounds and I leave at 8 am for work and don't get home until 5:30 - 5:45. I leave him in an ex-pen with a pee pad every day (just in case), but he probably only uses it about once a month or even less. So he can easily hold it 9.5 hours. He also holds it all night while we sleep (8 hours).
Report Abuse. Yes, they can hold it that long.... we recently adopted a 4 yo shih tzu and she's very good at holding it for what I think is a long time for such a small dog. Ours often goes out to potty about 10:00 p.m. and I take her out around 6:00. Sometimes she'll go and sometimes she won't (till about 7:00). 
Always remember puppies have limits to how long they hold themselves. A good rule of thumb is that a puppy can, at most hold their bowls and bladder for as many hours as the puppy is months old. For example, if your puppy is three months old, then don't expect your puppy to hold themselves for more than 3 hours. Monitor just how much water consumption your Yorkie has just before bedtime
*Remember toy poodles have small bladders and can't hold their bladder for long periods of times. A 3 month old puppy can hold its bladder for about 4 hours. *Do not hit or spank your puppy for making mistakes, this will only confuse them. *Praise your puppy when he/she goes in the right spot. 
To be successful, one must understand the limits that a puppy has. A Yorkie puppy can only hold their needs for a certain amount of time. To not allow your puppy to relieve themselves within this time frame, is setting the dog up to fail. A 2 month old can hold his needs for approximately 2 hours at the most. A 3 month old can hold its needs for 3 hours at the most. This continues on until the dog is an adult, at which time the Yorkie can only hold on for a maximum of 8 hours. 1 When house training a Yorkie puppy, you will sometimes only have 2-3 minutes to get them to the chosen area. 2  15 to 20 minutes after each meal, the digestive system works rapidly with puppies...and sometimes the ingestion of food will trigger elimination of a previous meal. 3  After each nap. 4  Before bedtime.
Then take your dog back outside every 30 minutes until he or she potties again. See how many minutes it has been before they potty again. On average, a small young Yorkie needs to potty about every 1 to 1 1/2 hours (60 to 90) minutes. But you cannot wait this long in between times when you first start. The hardest thing most Yorkie owners have to deal with is Yorkie potty training, also known as Yorkie housebreaking. Yorkshire Terriers, also known as Yorkies, are a little harder to train than some other breeds of dogs. This results from their own nature to work without human assistance.