Commercial awareness comes up time and time again as a weakness that employers perceive graduates to have, so if you’re looking to stand out from the crowd as a graduate candidate, commercial awareness is a key competency you need to be working on. 
Commercial Awareness Definition. Commercial awareness refers to an individual’s broad understanding of how businesses operate internally and of the wider market and environmental issues affecting organisations (Owens et al., 1998). Commercial awareness is generally defined as an understanding of the wider environment in which an organisation operates.
In other words, commercial awareness is an understanding of what your company needs to do to be profitable, be successful, and serve its customers well. With it, you know your organization's core values, biggest competitors, key stakeholders, and current business challenges. Commercial awareness is the understanding of how your business – and your industry – operate and make money. When you demonstrate commercial awareness, you're focused on making money for your business and helping it achieve its aims.
Commercial awareness is one of the key attributes cited by many employers as being essential to employability, but unfortunately one that many people seem unable to demonstrate. With the huge changes that have happened in the public sector around the world over the last five years, it can sometimes seem that citing the need for commercial awareness in job advertisements is a way of saying ‘You must have worked in a commercial organisation, and not just in the public sector’.
Commercial awareness is the ability to understand what makes a business or organisation successful, through either buying or selling products or supplying services to a market. This simple definition, however, masks a wide range of skills and understanding. With the huge changes that have happened in the public sector around the world over the last five years, it can sometimes seem that citing the need for commercial awareness in job advertisements is a way of saying ‘You must have worked in a commercial organisation, and not just in the public sector’.
It is hard to give an exact definition of commercial awareness. It certainly doesn't mean that you need to have studied business, finance or economics and is much broader than that. Some of the skills you have if you are commercially aware are. 1  problem solving. 2  analytical. 3  innovation. 4  creativity. 
Commercial awareness can be simply defined as staying up-to-date on daily happenings and developments in the business and commercial world. A significant portion of law today revolves around business and commerce in the marketplace, between cities and regions, and across geographies. Commercial awareness is, therefore, one of the key requirements that a good and competent solicitor needs to master.
Key Employability Skill: Commercial Awareness. Employability is defined, in line with the University Employability Policy and Strategy, as “ the capability to secure and maintain satisfactory work ”, and is all about what skills you have and how you can demonstrate to employers that you have these skills. Being able to show that you that you have an understanding of the market place in which a business or service operates and an understanding of what makes a business successful is a key requirement in most occupations and is very important when applying for a graduate job.
Commercial awareness means understanding the market, identifying opportunities and working with limited resources to create a profit (Wilkinson and Aspinall, 2007).. Commercial awareness is generally defined as an understanding of the wider environment in which an organisation operates. This concept reviews the main advantages of employing commercially aware personnel and suggests how organisations can facilitate the increase in their staff’s commercial awareness
It’s the buzz phrase of the day, but what is commercial awareness and how can you demonstrate you’ve got it to those potential employers? 