If your service connected disability rating is less than 100% and it prevents you from gainful employment you may be eligible for Total Disability Individual Unemployability (TDIU) . TDIU or IU for short will pay a veteran at the 100% rate even through their rating or combined rating is less than 100%. There is no time limit for a veteran to file their disability compensation claim. If a veteran files within one year of their discharge and is granted service connection for a disability the effective date of claim for that disability will be the day after their discharge.
Individual Unemployability allows VA to pay certain Veterans at the 100% disability rate even though their service-connected disabilities are not rated as 100% disabling. Special Monthly Compensation VA will automatically award special monthly compensation if your disability qualifies. To apply for SMC if you are housebound or required the aid and attendance of someone to perform daily living functions complete VA Form 21-2680 and mail it to your nearest VA regional office.
The Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance (S-DVI) program was established in 1951 to meet the insurance needs of certain veterans with service connected disabilities. S-DVI is available in a variety of permanent plans as well as term insurance. Policies are issued for a maximum face amount of $10,000. 
Veteran Disability Compensation. If you are military veteran with a service-related disability you may qualify for over $3,300 in monthly benefits. These benefits are paid to veterans who have injuries or diseases that happened while on active duty, or were made worse by active military service. VA Disability Compensation Amounts: The amount of basic benefit paid ranges from $133 to over $3,300 per month, depending on your level of disability and number of dependents. Note: You may be paid additional amounts if: 1  you have very severe disabilities or loss of limb(s).
Veterans with a service-related disability may qualify for over $3,300 in monthly benefits. 1  The Veterans Pension Program. 2  Special Monthly Compensation. 3  State Veteran's Benefits. VA Disability Compensation Amounts: The amount of basic benefit paid ranges from $133 to over $3,300 per month, depending on your level of disability and number of dependents. Note: You may be paid additional amounts if: 1  you have very severe disabilities or loss of limb(s).
Yes for Disability Compensation. For Disability Compensation, the range is from 0% to 100%. A veteran with a 0% rating may have a service connected condition, but it doesn’t interfere with normal life functions. There is a full range between the two, with the majority of Vermont’s disabled veterans rated at 10%, 20%, or 30%. No for Non-Service Connected Pension. Pension is provided only to veterans who the VA determines to be 100% disabled.
Disability Compensation. Disability compensation is a monthly tax-free benefit paid to Veterans who are at least 10% disabled because of injuries or diseases that were incurred in or aggravated during active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training. 
Compensation for a service-connected disability ranges from $123 to $2,673 per month for a single veteran with no dependents. SMC is also available to a veteran whose service-connected disability isn't on the specific SMC list but who's rated 100-percent disabled and who's housebound and in need of aid and attendance from a caretaker.
The amount of compensation a veteran receives for a service-connected disability depends on the seriousness of the disability. The V.A. does a medical and vocational (the ability to perform work) evaluation of a veteran who applies for compensation and then assigns the veteran a disability rating. SMC is also available to a veteran whose service-connected disability isn't on the specific SMC list but who's rated 100-percent disabled and who's housebound and in need of aid and attendance from a caretaker.
Alternatively, you may print and mail-in VA Form 21-526EZ, Application for Disability Compensation and Related Compensation Benefits or call VA at 1-800-827-1000 to have the form mailed to you. Special Monthly Compensation VA will automatically award special monthly compensation if your disability qualifies. To apply for SMC if you are housebound or required the aid and attendance of someone to perform daily living functions complete VA Form 21-2680 and mail it to your nearest VA regional office.