Each form of polyurethane foam has many uses: 1  EUROPUR represents the producers of flexible polyurethane foam blocks used in the applications presented on this website (bedding, furniture, automotive and many others). 1 Rigid foams are mainly used for thermal insulation of buildings and are in the remit of our partner organisation, PU Europe, which has developed a website specifically dedicated to answer all questions on building insulation with polyurethane foam.
Polyurethane on the other hand is a polymer (PU), which people think of as urethane, and is commonly used in production of seals, gaskets, soles of shoes, flexible foams, tires, seats, adhesives, fibers and many types of plastics. 
Polyurethane synthesis, wherein the urethane groups — NH-(C=O)-O-link the molecular units. Polyurethane (PUR and PU) is a polymer composed of organic units joined by carbamate (urethane) links. Non-isocyanate based polyurethanes (NIPUs) have recently been developed as a new class of polyurethane polymers to mitigate health and environmental concerns. Polyurethane products often are simply called “urethanes”, but should not be confused with ethyl carbamate, which is also called urethane.
Polyurethane foams are now used in high-temperature oil filter applications. Polyurethane foam (including foam rubber) is sometimes made using small amounts of blowing agents to give less dense foam, better cushioning/energy absorption or thermal insulation. Non-isocyanate based polyurethanes (NIPUs) have recently been developed as a new class of polyurethane polymers to mitigate health and environmental concerns. Polyurethane products often are simply called “urethanes”, but should not be confused with ethyl carbamate, which is also called urethane.
The manufacturing process can produce foams of varying densities and flexibilities, which means that it can serve functions as diverse as bedding, packaging and footwear. It is important to note that urethane foam is most commonly used to refer to a material made from polyurethane. The urethane reference in this name is to the type of links, also known as carbamates, that join the units in polyurethane. Ad. Urethane foam can also be used for insulation, such as in attic roofs. The biggest advantage of the substance for this use is that it has a very low lambda value, which is the measure of how much heat it transfers, meaning it is a very effective thermal insulator.
In addition to the flexible and rigid types, semi-flexible polyurethane foam also exists, and is used extensively in automobile interiors. Seats, armrests, and headrests are frequently made from the semi-flexible variety of this material. It can be flexible or rigid, but has a low density. Flexible polyurethane foam is most often used in bedding and upholstery, while the more rigid variety is used for thermal insulation and in automobile dashboards. Flexible polyurethane is made in blocks and then cut to its desired shape
Polyurethane foam, also known as Urethane Foam, Foam Rubber, PU, PUF and PUR, is a flexible, open-cell type of foam that has a near-infinite amount of applications due to the following characteristics: 1  Compressibility. 2  Cushioning. 3  Energy absorption. 4  Fabricatibility. 