DMAE has shown positive results in the treatment of a variety of cognitive and disruptive disorders, including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and memory lapses. DMAE is even being used in skin care products designed to treat sagging skin and age spots.
(details). DMAE (dimethylaminoethanol) has powerful effects on not only the skin, but overall health. Outside of skin care products, DMAE has been studied in relation to its potential benefits in the brain, ranging from treating mental health disorders to simply enhancing brain function.
DMAE is a amino acid which is found in small amounts in the brain. According to studies, DMAE is a crucial substance that functions as a building block for choline, which allows the brain to manufacturer acetylcholine.
DMAE is a precursor to choline, an important nutrient that is often associated with the B-vitamin group. Choline is used by the body for many important functions, which include cell membrane integrity and the healthy functioning of neurotransmitters known as acetylcholines.
As a supplement, the chemical is used to treat a variety of symptoms; DMAE also appears in skincare and anti-aging products. Dr. Perricone is a vocal proponent of DMAE, and sells several DMAE products under the Perricone MD Cosmeceuticals label.
Other names for DMAE include DMAE Bitartrate, Deanol aceglumate, Deanol benzilate, Deanol acetamidobenzoate, Deanol bisorcate, Deanol cyclohexylpropionate, Deanol tartrate, Dimethylaminoethanol, Dimethylaminoethanol Bitartrate, Dimethylethanolamine, 2-Dimethylaminoethanol, and 2-Dimethyl Aminoethanol.
DMAE (dimethylaminoethanol) is a skin care ingredient enthusiastically touted by many skin care vendors. One of the reasons for its popularity is that it is one of the very few agents (perhaps even the only one) shown to produce some skin tightening and modestly reduce facial sag.
DMAE is used to treat a variety of conditions and illnesses associated with the brain and the central nervous system. It is also used in skin care products to reduce the signs of aging. The known and potential benefits of DMAE include: 1  Treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD);
Taking DMAE as directed in supplement form or using it as a cream have noticeable positive effects on the skin, mind, and overall health. DMAE is a supplement that can be a part of any topical product, as it enhances the effects of the other key ingredients while adding its own benefits.