Well, first of all, any terminating decimal (like 0.0376) is, essentially, a fraction with a power of ten in the dominator; for example, 0.0376 = 376/10000 = 47/1250. Notice we simplified this fraction, by cancelling a factor of 8 in the numerator. If the prime factorization of the denominator of a fraction has only factors of 2 and factors of 5, the decimal expression terminates. If there is any prime factor in the denominator other than 2 or 5, then the decimal expression repeats. Thus, 1/24 repeats (there’s a factor of 3).
Your non zero digits will be 2^6 = 64 i.e. you will have 2 non-zero digits. Another way to look at the problem is this: 1/(10^11 * 5^6) = 2^6/(10^17) (multiply and divide by 2^6). = 64/(10^17). Since the denominator is a power of 10, it will just move the decimal 17 places to the left. The non-zero digits will remain 64 only i.e. 2 digits. Answer (B). We will look at some DS questions on terminating and non terminating decimals next week. There has to be another logical approach to this problem. Well, here it is: A fraction in its lowest term can be expressed as a terminating decimal if and only if the denominator has powers of only 2 and/or 5. Let’s try to understand the logic behind it. Say, a and b are two integers. a/b = a * 1/b. For a/b to be terminating, 1/b must be a terminating decimal
Any rational number (that is, a fraction in lowest terms) can be written as either a terminating decimal or a repeating decimal. Just divide the numerator by the denominator. If you end up with a remainder of 0, then you have a terminating decimal. Otherwise, the remainders will begin to repeat after some point, and you have a repeating decimal. Example: Convert the fraction 5/8 to a decimal. The division is as follows: So, 5/8 = 0.625. This is a terminating decimal. Example: Convert the fraction 7/12 to a decimal. The division is as follows: So: This is a repeating decimal. The bar over the number, in this case 3, indicates the number or block of numbers that repeat unendingly. See also Converting Repeating Decimals to Fractions
The third decimal place is the thousandths place, the fourth decimal place is the ten thousandths place, and the fifth decimal place is the hundred thousandths place, and so on. It’s important to remember, and know, how many decimal places you have before you can convert decimals to fractions. For example, let’s say we have the decimal number 0.45 and we want to change it into a fraction. The first step is to figure out what decimal place value you’re working with. Converting Decimals to Percents. Converting decimals to percents is all about moving decimal places. For example, let’s say that you have the decimal number 0.55, and you want to change it to a percent. In order to do this, you are simply going to move the decimal point 2 places to the right.
(Terminating means it ends, unlike, say, the decimal for 1/3, which goes on forever. A non-terminating AND NON-REPEATING decimal CANNOT be converted to a fraction, because it is an  irrational  (non-fractional) number. You should probably just memorize some of the more basic repeating decimals, like 0.33333... = 1/3 and 0.666666... = 2/3. Check out the table on the last page.). The calculator can do the work for you, because you can just have it do the division. For example: The bar is placed over the repeating digits, for convenience sake. When converting fractions to decimals, you may be told to round to a certain place or to a certain number of decimal places.
The word terminate means end. A decimal that ends is a terminating decimal. In other words, a terminating decimal doesn't keep going. A terminating decimal will have a finite number of digits after the decimal point. In the examples listed above, we have a few fractions expressed as decimals. Notice that these decimals have a FINITE NUMBER OF DIGITS after the decimal point. So, they are terminating decimals. However, there are situations when the digits after the decimal point DOES NOT END or they go on forever. 
Any terminating decimal can be converted to a fraction by counting the number of decimal places, and putting the decimal's digits over 1 followed by the appropriate number of zeroes. For example: ADVERTISEMENT. In the case of a repeating decimal, the following procedure is often used. The calculator can do the work for you, because you can just have it do the division. For example: The bar is placed over the repeating digits, for convenience sake. When converting fractions to decimals, you may be told to round to a certain place or to a certain number of decimal places.
1/500 in base 10 is a terminating decimal fraction because. 1/500 = 0.002 = 2/1000, so the denominator, 500 divides exactly into 1000=10 3 and we have 3 decimal digits in the decimal fraction. We have found a power of 10 which is an exact multiple of the denominator, 50. In any base B, let's look at 1/D. 