Other contemporary producers of fiberboard building sheathing besides Homasote™ , and Masonite ™ include International Bildrite (Bildrite structural), Georgia Pacific (Stedi-R & Stedi-R-structural), Knight Celotex (Celotex premium insulating), and Temple Inland (Temple fiber brace). The R-value of fiberboard sheathing is higher than plywood, gypsum board, etc, and is rated at about R 2.4 per inch (or about R 1.2 in more typical half-inch thickness with which it is applied. The board also reduces sound transmission into buildings.
Corrugated fiberboard is a paper-based material consisting of a fluted corrugated sheet and one or two flat linerboards. It is made on flute lamination machines or corrugators and is used in the manufacture of shipping containers and corrugated boxes. 
Fiberboard is an engineered wood product created from wood chips, sawdust, plant fibers and sometimes other materials as well. These materials are bonded together with timber resin or synthetic resin and compressed into rigid sheets under heat and pressure. Most Common Fiberboard. Medium-density fiberboard is the most commonly used fiberboard and is more durable than particle board and less expensive than hardboard.
No supplementary corner bracing is required by the model building codes when structural grade fiberboard sheathing panels, 1/2 or 25/32, are applied vertically or horizontally. Ideal for Any Siding. Fiberboard sheathing is easy and economical to install with hardboard, wood, or any other siding material. 
Plywood is not a type of fiberboard, as it is made of thin sheets of wood, not wood fibers or particles. Fiberboard, particularly medium-density fiberboard (MDF), is heavily used in the furniture industry. For pieces that will be visible, a veneer of wood is often glued onto fiberboard to give it the appearance of conventional wood. Fiberboard is also used in the auto industry to create free-form shapes such as dashboards, rear parcel shelves, and inner door shells. These pieces are usually covered with a skin, foil, or fabric such as cloth, suede, leather, or polyvinyl chloride
Dietary fiber is a plant-based nutrient that is sometimes called roughage or bulk. It is a type of carbohydrate but, unlike other carbs, it cannot be broken down into digestible sugar molecules. Therefore, fiber passes through the intestinal tract relatively intact. However, on its journey, fiber does a lot of work. 
Fiberboard (American spelling) or fibreboard (Commonwealth spelling) is a type of engineered wood product that is made out of wood fibers. Types of fiberboard (in order of increasing density) include particle board, medium-density fiberboard, and hardboard. Fiberboard is sometimes used as a synonym for particle board, but particle board usually refers to low-density fiberboard. For pieces that will be visible, a veneer of wood is often glued onto fiberboard to give it the appearance of conventional wood. Fiberboard is also used in the auto industry to create free-form shapes such as dashboards, rear parcel shelves, and inner door shells. These pieces are usually covered with a skin, foil, or fabric such as cloth, suede, leather, or polyvinyl chloride
Top 10 facts about the world. Fiberboard is an engineered wood product made with chips of wood and a binder. The fibers of the wood align to create a tight, even network that is minimally susceptible to movement and swelling in damp conditions and temperature changes. It is also known as medium-density fiberboard, to distinguish it from a related material called particleboard, which is less dense. On the other end of the scale masonite or hardboard is a stronger product. To make this product, wood chips are milled to generate long cellulose fibers.