Released in 1959, Marty Robbins’ hit song ‘El Paso’ topped country western charts and gave the legendary singer country street cred for capturing the true spirit of the western United States. Robbins earns his spot on the Top 100 Country Songs list thanks to this song’s reception across all genres. 
Roberto Zubia became the owner of Rosa’s Cantina in 1961 or 1962. (Photo by and courtesy of Mark Cioc-Ortega). “El Paso” is one of Marty Robbins’ most beloved ballads. He wrote the song in late 1957, but did not get around to recording it until April 1959, as part of the album Gunfighter Ballads and Trail Songs. What is true is that the real town of El Paso served as the spark for his inspiration. Robbins drove through El Paso every Christmas between 1955 and 1957 on the way to his home in Phoenix. He liked the town’s romantic-sounding name and promised himself that he’d one day write a song about it.
Out in the West Texas town of El Paso. I fell in love with a Mexican girl. Night-time would find me in Rosa's cantina. Music would play and Felina would whirl. Blacker than night were the eyes of Felina. Wicked and evil while casting a spell. My love was deep for this Mexican maiden. 
This article is about the Marty Robbins song. For the Taking Back Sunday song, see Taking Back Sunday (album) .  El Paso  is a country and western ballad written and originally recorded by Marty Robbins, and first released on Gunfighter Ballads and Trail Songs in September 1959. The arrangement includes riffs and themes from the previous two El Paso songs. Robbins wrote it while flying over El Paso, in-he reported-the same amount of time it takes to sing, four minutes and fourteen seconds.
read more. This video clip contains live concert footage of Marty Robbins performing his hit song El Paso. The classic Ballad was first released in 1959 on the Gunfighter Ballads and Trail Songs album, and went on to win a Grammy Award in 1960. 
Robbins wrote two songs that are explicit sequels to El Paso, one in 1966, one in 1976. (He also wrote other songs that told Western stories in a similar vein, but they are not sequels to El Paso, as they involve none of the same characters.). The arrangement includes riffs and themes from the previous two El Paso songs. Robbins wrote it while flying over El Paso, in-he reported-the same amount of time it takes to sing, four minutes and fourteen seconds.
Robbins wrote this in a car as he and his family were traveling through Texas on the way to Arizona. The song is a Western saga complete with drama, violence, and romance. At 4:40, this song was exceptionally long by pop standards. We took a day off and went to Cape Canaveral and Daytona, where we took a tour of the track. At one point I asked the guide who had left a particularly long skid mark ending at the wall--Marty Robbins. And El Paso was a truly great song--I loved it when it was a hit, and I still love it. Dave-Cullman, Al.
Out in the west Texas town of El Paso, I fell in love with a Mexican girl.... The song is a first-person narrative told by a cowboy who is in El Paso, Texas, in the days of the Wild West. He recalls how he fell in love with a young Mexican woman, Faleena, a dancer at Rosa's Cantina . The arrangement includes riffs and themes from the previous two El Paso songs. Robbins wrote it while flying over El Paso, in-he reported-the same amount of time it takes to sing, four minutes and fourteen seconds.
Out in the West Texas town of El Paso. I fell in love with a Mexican girl. Night-time would find me in Rosa's cantina; Music would play and Felina would whirl. 