Pork chops, cooked and served. A pork chop is a chop of pork (a meat chop) cut perpendicularly to the spine of the pig and usually containing a rib or part of a vertebra, served as an individual portion.
Directions. Brine the pork chops the night before: Combine 3 cups hot water, the vinegar, brown sugar, 1/4 cup salt, the garlic, sage and cayenne in a large bowl, stirring until the sugar and salt dissolve; let cool to room temperature. Submerge the pork chops in the brine, cover and refrigerate overnight. Add half of the pork chops and cook until browned, 3 to 5 minutes per side (reduce the heat, if necessary). Transfer to a plate and repeat with the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil and pork chops; transfer to the plate.
Dredge each side of the pork chops in the flour mixture, then set aside on a plate. Heat canola oil over medium to medium-high heat. Add butter. When butter is melted and butter/oil mixture is hot, cook 3 pork chops at a time, 2 to 3 minutes on the first side; 1 to 2 minutes on the other side. (Make sure no pink juices remain.) Remove to a plate and repeat with remaining porch chops. Delicious and simple! Serve with smashed new potatoes.
Season the chops on both sides with salt and pepper. Place a heavy skillet on your stove, and heat it on a medium-high burner until the air over the pan shimmers and there's a noticeable smell of hot metal. Step 4. Drizzle or spray a small amount of oil into the pan, and add 2 or 3 chops immediately. Step 3. Remove the first chop to a plate lined with parchment or wax paper, and repeat the breading process with the remaining chops. Step 4. Heat a large, heavy skillet over medium heat, and add a small amount of butter or oil. Pan-fry the chops until they're golden on each side
Directions. 1. In a small bowl combine brown sugar, smoked paprika, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1 teaspoon pepper. Rub brown sugar mixture over pork chops. 2. Melt butter in a large skillet over medium high heat until foaming subsides. Add pork chop and cook until well-browned, about 4 minute
Pork is no stranger to the breakfast table, usually in the form of sausages, bacon or ham. For a heartier breakfast, pork chops are also a good option. Most butchers and supermarkets offer thin-sliced, quick-cooking chops for just that purpose. They're sliced thin to cook quickly, but that also means they're easy to overcook. Step 3. Remove the first chop to a plate lined with parchment or wax paper, and repeat the breading process with the remaining chops. Step 4. Heat a large, heavy skillet over medium heat, and add a small amount of butter or oil. Pan-fry the chops until they're golden on each side
Remove the pork from the brine and pat dry. Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add half of the pork chops and cook until browned, 3 to 5 minutes per side (reduce the heat, if necessary). Transfer to a plate and repeat with the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil and pork chops; transfer to the plate.
1 Preheat oil in frying pan (you don't need much since these are thin chops). 2  Beat eggs in a bowl. 3  Add 3/4 cup of the flour to a pie pan. 4  Mix in salt and pepper, garlic powder, onion powder. 5  Dip chops in egg, then dredge in flour. 6  Fry on each side until they turn a rich brown color. 1 Add 3/4 cup of the flour to a pie pan. 2  Mix in salt and pepper, garlic powder, onion powder. 3  Dip chops in egg, then dredge in flour. 4  Fry on each side until they turn a rich brown color. 5  If you'd like add additional salt and pepper while they're frying. 6  Remove from pan and drain on a paper towel.
1 Melt butter in a medium skillet. 2  Lightly sprinkle both sides of each pork chop with cayenne pepper. 3  Fry the chops until browned on each side, then continue to cook over medium heat until no longer pink, and the juices run clear. 4  Serve chops with sauce poured over, and garnish with fresh strawberries. 