RSMC stands for Rural and Suburban Mail Carrier (Canada Post). Suggest new definition. This definition appears rarely and is found in the following Acronym Finder categories: 1  Military and Government. 2  Organizations, NGOs, schools, universities, etc. 1 RSMC.. 2  Retrieved October 20 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Rural-and-Suburban-Mail-Carrier-(Canada-Post)-(RSMC).html.
Canada Post’s responsibility for mail ends with the correct delivery of mail to an address, a legal representative, a mail receptacle or a postal box. When delivering an item requiring a signature, Canada Post’s responsibility ends when the addressee or authorized Representative signs for the article. A service provided at post offices for delivery of mail to customers with no fixed address within the letter carrier delivery area and anyone who cannot receive mail through the normal delivery modes.
1 AcronymFinder.com 20 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Rural-and-Suburban-Mail-Carrier-(Canada-Post)-(RSMC).html. 2  Chicago style: Acronym Finder. 1 RSMC.. 2  Retrieved October 20 2015 from
1 MLA style: RSMC.. 2  Acronym Finder. 2015. 3  AcronymFinder.com 20 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Rural-and-Suburban-Mail-Carrier-(Canada-Post)-(RSMC).html. 1 RSMC.. 2  Retrieved October 20 2015 from
The sender writes CARD FOR PICKUP in the Attention box of the shipping label or applies a Card for Pickup sticker to the item to ensure that Canada Post does not deliver the item. Canada Post notifies the addressee that the item is to be picked up at the post office. A service provided at post offices for delivery of mail to customers with no fixed address within the letter carrier delivery area and anyone who cannot receive mail through the normal delivery modes.
A person who enters a Business Reply Mail agreement and obtains the approval of Canada Post to distribute envelopes or cards that meet the requirements of the Corporation for Business Reply Mail service. A service provided at post offices for delivery of mail to customers with no fixed address within the letter carrier delivery area and anyone who cannot receive mail through the normal delivery modes.
On December 11, 2013, Canada Post announced drastic cutbacks to our public postal service. The Conservative government supports Canada Post’s plan to eliminate all door-to-door mail delivery and the dramatic increase in stamp prices. 
The Canadian Union of Postal Workers or CUPW is a public sector trade union representing postal workers employed at Canada Post as well as private sector workers outside Canada Post. In 1981, after another strike, CUPW became the first federal civil service union in Canada to win the right to maternity leave for its members. In 1981, Canada Post was transformed from a government department to a crown corporation, fulfilling a long-standing demand by the union.
1 (2015). 2  Retrieved October 20 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Rural-and-Suburban-Mail-Carrier-(Canada-Post)-(RSMC).html. 1 RSMC.
An option selected by the customer for a service whereby Canada Post obtains the signature of the addressee or the addressee’s representative upon delivery of a Priority™, Xpresspost™, Expedited Parcel™ or Regular Parcel™ item. A service provided at post offices for delivery of mail to customers with no fixed address within the letter carrier delivery area and anyone who cannot receive mail through the normal delivery modes.