Find out after the jump. No. That is the answer according to Dennis Pierce, the head of UConn Dining Services. Pierce said he was familiar with the rumor though, and that it was one common to college campuses -- and one UConn spends a bit of time each year fighting. A quick google search for laxative dining hall food returns over 10,000 hits, many addressing -- and debunking -- the rumor. In fact, two of the first twenty hits bring you to UConn websites.
link. This is just a topic that I have stumbled across in my recent research of health services, putting laxatives in college students meals. Few college students know of this rumor, but I do personally feel that it could be true. I have also read that Grade D meat is used. Putting laxatives in the food makes students go to the bathroom more. This helps them rid their bodies of sicknesses and diseases quicker. At the same time, this also makes students hungrier.
This is just a topic that I have stumbled across in my recent research of health services, putting laxatives in college students meals. Few college students know of this rumor, but I do personally feel that it could be true. Putting laxatives in the food makes students go to the bathroom more. This helps them rid their bodies of sicknesses and diseases quicker. At the same time, this also makes students hungrier.
Over Thanksgiving dinner, a college student related that there is a law that cafeterias are required to put laxatives into the food they serve. The purpose of the additives is to reduce the chances of food poisoning by limiting the length of time that the food is in the body. [Collected via e-mail, September 2005]. This is my first year in college and there's word going around that the food people put laxatives in the food. It's a very small amount and it's supposedly intended so that if there is ever food poisoning, that the food would be flushed out anyways so no one would find out and sue the school. Belief in the legend fails to take into account what would happen to a school foolhardy enough to secretly dose its students with any kind of medication. Just about any drug can prompt an adverse reaction in at least a few people, causing them to become ill, or maybe even to die.
· just now. Report Abuse. Yeah there are no laxatives in the food, although I have heard (from a friend who worked in the residence halls) that the meals were intentionally high calorie and fatty to compensate for so many students missing meals and so many problems with people with eating disorders and all. This fable has been around since Hollywood thought it woud be a great premise for some dumb and stupid movie. As one contributor already said, saltpeter (Potassium Nitrate) was supposedly used by cooks in the army to prevent GI's from getting an erection. Not only is it false, it also is inaccurate.
Sodexo works in partnership with Temple Dining Services. “The problem is the rumor exists not just here, but at every college in every situation and it will wax and wane with the semesters,” Beers said. “The new students are told by the upperclassmen, ‘Don’t eat in the cafeteria, they put laxatives in the food. Here’s something else to be thankful for: Temple’s eateries aren’t dishing out enemas. The rumor that dining halls add laxatives to foods served in cafeterias has been circulating throughout college bathrooms for years. The rumor comes and goes, semester to semester, according to the Director of Administration for Sodexo Peter Beers, who has worked at Temple for 14 years
Makes them happy, why wouldn't the administration want students to feel happy at college, @ a time which could be very stressful, especially when are parents are paying $1,000 a semester, just on food. Putting laxatives in the food makes students go to the bathroom more. This helps them rid their bodies of sicknesses and diseases quicker. At the same time, this also makes students hungrier. The cafeteria is located on the third floor of my door building, therefore its basically unaviodable
I don't even know if anyone can answer this, but since I've been in college my friends and I have been getting sick after dinner every night we eat in the cafeteria. Someone said its because the cafeteria people put laxatives in the food so the students won't get fat and the school will have a good reputation. Belief in the legend fails to take into account what would happen to a school foolhardy enough to secretly dose its students with any kind of medication. Just about any drug can prompt an adverse reaction in at least a few people, causing them to become ill, or maybe even to die.
Six months into it, our cafeteria was one of two in the school district that turned a profit. So much for the idea that you will lose money if you stop selling junk food in your cafeteria, Woldow said. The next year they expanded the program to every middle and high school. 