Normal Flora. Your intestine contains more than one trillion beneficial bacteria, largely microorganisms that are anaerobes, which do not require oxygen to survive. Each person has a unique mix of flora, potentially containing as many as 400 different species. Most belong to the genera Streptococcus or Bacteroides. Gastrointestinal flora are bacteria that help your digestive tract function. Your gastrointestinal tract, or GI tract, is responsible for providing your body with nutrients, vitamins and minerals found in the food you consume.
Microorganisms including bacteria, protozoa, and fungi that are found on or in specific areas of the body. The skin and mucous membranes of the oral cavity, intestines, upper respiratory tract, and vagina have specific, permanent flora. 
Even though most elements of the normal microbial flora inhabiting the human skin, nails, eyes, oropharynx, genitalia, and gastrointestinal tract are harmless in healthy individuals, these organisms frequently cause disease in compromised hosts. Helicobacter pylori is a potential stomach pathogen that apparently plays a role in the formation of certain ulcer types. In normal hosts the duodenal flora is sparse (0 to 10 3 /g of contents). The ileum contains a moderately mixed flora (10 6 to 10 8
The human microbiota is the aggregate of microorganisms, a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin (including in mammary glands), in the saliva and oral mucosa, in the conjunctiva, and in the gastrointestinal tracts. They include bacteria, fungi, and archaea. 
Normal Flora. The normal flora are bacteria which are found in or on our bodies on a semi-permanent basis without causing disease. There are more bacteria living in or on our bodies, than we have cells of our own. A human body contains around 10 13 cells. The human body is home to around 10 14 bacteria. 
These bacteria are called normal flora or normal microbiota. Article Summary: The human body is made up of about 10 trillion cells, but hosts 100 trillion more. The vast majority of cells living on and in the body are bacteria and other microbes. 
These bacteria exist in many different parts of the body, and their presence usually does not cause any problems for the host body. The following is a list of the main sites for bacteria that consitute the normal flora. 1  The skin, especially the moist areas, such as the groin and between the toes. 2  The respiratory tract, particularly the nose. 3  Urinary tract. 4  The digestive tract, i.e. the mouth, the terminal ileum and the colon. 
(2) Many of the normal flora are either pathogens or opportunistic pathogens, The asterisks indicate members of the normal flora a that may be considered major pathogens of humans. S. aureus. Gram stain. (3) Streptococcus mutans is the primary bacterium involved in plaque formation and initiation of dental caries. 
Organisms in the stomach are usually transient, and their populations are kept low (10 3 to 10 6 /g of contents) by acidity. Helicobacter pylori is a potential stomach pathogen that apparently plays a role in the formation of certain ulcer types. In normal hosts the duodenal flora is sparse (0 to 10 3 /g of contents). The ileum contains a moderately mixed flora (10 6 to 10 8 /g of contents). The flora of the large bowel is dense (10 9 to 10 11 /g of contents) and is composed predominantly of anaerobes
Many elements of the normal flora may act as opportunistic pathogens, especially in hosts rendered susceptible by rheumatic heart disease, immunosuppression, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, perforated mucous membranes, etc. The flora of the gingival crevice causes dental caries in about 80 percent of the population. Helicobacter pylori is a potential stomach pathogen that apparently plays a role in the formation of certain ulcer types. In normal hosts the duodenal flora is sparse (0 to 10 3 /g of contents). The ileum contains a moderately mixed flora (10 6 to 10 8