glomerular filtration, the renal process whereby fluid in the blood is filtered across the capillaries of the glomerulus and into the urinary space of Bowman's capsule. pertaining to or of the nature of a glomerulus, especially a renal glomerulus. glomerular basement membrane. the structure located between endothelial cells of renal capillaries and the visceral epithelial cells of the glomerulus. It functions as a barrier to filtration of large molecules.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The filtrate is formed as a liquid which is forced to pass through the walls of glomerulus. This is formed after the process of filtration. The stuff left  in the paper is called the residue, and the stuff which passes  through the paper is called the filtrate.   More generally, filtration is the action or process of filtering  something. + 54 others found this useful. Khaycee Morales.
a) Reabsorption and secretion The filtrate you are talking about is also known as glomerular filtrate formed after the process of filtration. Now this filtrate will undergo reabsorption and then secretion to become urine. Glomerular filtrate contains water, waste products, salts, glucose and other chemicals from blood. In the process of reabsorption, glucose is entirely reabsorbed back to blood from proximal tubules. Also Na+ ions and water are reabsorbed. by the processes of ______, which form the urine that leaves the body. a. reabsorption and secretion b. secretion and excretion c. filtration and reabsorption d. filtration and secretion e.
Urine formed by a kidney collects in the _____ before being drained from the kidney by the _____ and transported to the _____. (Activity 44A). Filtrate is formed as fluid is forced through the walls of the glomerulus and, initially, collects in the structure indicated by the letter _____. 
glomerular filtration. the process by which glomerular filtrate is formed, involving the balance of pressures across the walls of the glomerular capillaries. inherent filtration. attenuation of the primary x-ray beam as a result of its passage out of the x-ray tube through the insulating medium and tube window. pertaining to or of the nature of a glomerulus, especially a renal glomerulus. glomerular basement membrane. the structure located between endothelial cells of renal capillaries and the visceral epithelial cells of the glomerulus. It functions as a barrier to filtration of large molecules.
The Bowman's capsule empties the filtrate into the proximal tubule that is also part of the nephron. A glomerulus receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation. The rate of filtration from the glomerulus to the Bowman's capsule is determined (like in systemic capillaries) by the Starling equation 1  : GFR is the glomerular filtration rate. 2  K f is the filtration coefficient – a proportionality constant. 3  P gc is the glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure.
The filtrate formed by the nephrons in the kidney is not urine. by the processes of ______, which form the urine that leaves the body. a. reabsorption and secretion b. secretion and excretion c. filtration and reabsorption d. filtration and secretion e. reabsorption and excretion. Follow. by the processes of ______, which form the urine that leaves the body. a. reabsorption and secretion b. secretion and excretion c. filtration and reabsorption d. filtration and secretion 
A glomerulus is a network (as a tuft) of capillaries located at the beginning of a nephron in the kidney. It serves as the first stage in the filtering process of the blood carried out by the nephron in its formation of urine. The rate of filtration from the glomerulus to the Bowman's capsule is determined (like in systemic capillaries) by the Starling equation 1  : GFR is the glomerular filtration rate. 2  K f is the filtration coefficient – a proportionality constant. 3  P gc is the glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure.
The filtrate is formed as a liquid which is forced to pass through the walls of glomerulus. The stuff left  in the paper is called the residue, and the stuff which passes  through the paper is called the filtrate.   More generally, filtration is the action or process of filtering  something. + 54 others found this useful. Khaycee Morales.