A letter of credit generally has three participants: the beneficiary (the person or company who will be paid), the buyer of the goods or services (sometimes called the applicant), and the issuing bank (the institution issuing the letter of credit). Types and Features of Letters of Credit. Most letters of credit are import/export letters of credit which, as the name implies, are used in international trade. The same letter of credit would be termed an import letter of credit by the importer and an export letter of credit by the exporter.
DEFINITION of 'Fully Funded Documentary Letter Of Credit-FFDLC'. A written promise of payment provided by a buyer to a seller that is guaranteed to clear by a particular bank. Once an FFDLC document is presented by the seller to the involved bank, the bank is obliged to remit full payment to the seller. The seller may be required to fulfill certain conditions, such as providing proof of shipment of the goods sold to the buyer, before collecting payment from the bank.
DEFINITION of 'Letter Of Credit'. A letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time and for the correct amount. In the event that the buyer is unable to make payment on the purchase, the bank will be required to cover the full or remaining amount of the purchase. Next Up. Letter of Credit. A letter of credit is a document from a bank promising to pay the holder a certain amount if the holder fulfills certain obligations. Sellers in commercial transactions often require buyers to ...
The parties to a letter of credit are the supplier, usually called the beneficiary, the issuing bank, of whom the buyer is a client, and sometimes an advising bank, of whom the beneficiary is a client. A bank is not obligated to transfer a credit. A transferable letter of credit can be transferred to more than one alternate beneficiary as long as it allows partial shipments. The terms and conditions of the original credit must be replicated exactly in the transferred credit.
A documentary letter of credit is an obligation of the bank that opens the letter of credit (the issuing bank) to pay the agreed amount to the seller on behalf of the buyer, upon receipt of the documents specified in the letter of credit. 
In this case the seller is exposed to a number of risks such as credit risk, and legal risk caused by the distance, differing laws and difficulty in knowing each party personally. A letter of credit provides the seller with a guarantee that they will get paid as long as certain delivery conditions have been met. A bank is not obligated to transfer a credit. A transferable letter of credit can be transferred to more than one alternate beneficiary as long as it allows partial shipments. The terms and conditions of the original credit must be replicated exactly in the transferred credit.
A commercial LETTER OF CREDIT committing the BANK to pay a named BENEFICIARY, such as a seller of goods, once a confirming document has been delivered to the buyer; the documentary credit is widely used in international trade transactions, where BILLS OF LADING often serve as the evidencing document. 
The Letter of Credit can be clean -- meaning on documents other than the Letter of Credit are necessary for the beneficiary to receive payment from the issuing bank, or documentary -- meaning some additional documents must be presented along with a. , typically bills of lading in international trade transactions. 
We can define an irrevocable letter of credit (ILOC) as a type of documentary credit which can not be cancelled or amended by the issuing bank without the agreement of the parties of the letter of credit transaction. Table 1 shows the parties to the irrevocable letter of credit transaction. Irrevocable letter of credit term is one of the most frequently seen lc definition in international trade finance world. We know that lc world is working with an over-capacity in terms of misunderstandings, improper industry practices including irregular banking practices, false informations and so on.
When you hear the phrase letter of credit, it might be natural to think it would refer to a document verifying that you are creditworthy, but that isn't the case. A letter of credit is a document issued by a third party that guarantees payment for goods or services when the seller provides acceptable documentation. Types and Features of Letters of Credit. Most letters of credit are import/export letters of credit which, as the name implies, are used in international trade. The same letter of credit would be termed an import letter of credit by the importer and an export letter of credit by the exporter.