Bacteria and viruses are the two main causes of meningitis. The bacterium Neisseria meningitidis, also called meningococcus, causes meningococcal meningitis. In children and teens, meningococcus is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis. In adults, it is the second most common cause. Your risk for meningococcal meningitis increases if you are exposed to the bacterium that causes it. Your risk also increases if you've had a recent upper respiratory infection. Babies, children, and teens are at greatest risk.
About Meningitis. Meningitis is most often caused by a bacterial infection. It also may be caused by a virus, fungal infection, parasite, a reaction to certain medications or medical treatments, a rheumatologic disease such as lupus, some types of cancer, or a traumatic injury to the head or spine. Bacterial meningitis is a rare but potentially fatal disease. It can be caused by several types of bacteria that first cause an upper respiratory tract infection and then travel through the blood stream to the brain. The disease can also occur when certain bacteria invade the meninges directly. The disease can cause stroke, hearing loss, and permanent brain damage. Pneumococcal meningitis is the most common form of meningitis and is the most serious form of bacterial meningitis
Meningitis is an inflammation of the meninges (the covering of the brain and spinal cord). Meningitis can be caused by infection from viruses and bacteria (germs). These germs usually cause everyday illness, such as an ear infection or pneumonia. There are vaccines that can prevent meningococcal meningitis. Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) can also cause meningitis. In the past, Hib was the most common cause of bacterial meningitis. There is a vaccine that stops infants and young children from getting this kind of
Meningococcal infection is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in the UK and Ireland 1. Meningococcal bacteria (Neisseria meningitidis) can cause meningitis or septicaemia, or a combination of these diseases. 
Neisseria meningitidis are bacteria that can cause meningococcal disease, a very severe form of meningitis and/or blood infection. About 15% of people carry these bacteria in their throats without getting sick. In rare cases, however, the bacteria pass through the throat lining and infect the meninges and/or blood. There are vaccines that can prevent meningococcal meningitis. Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) can also cause meningitis. In the past, Hib was the most common cause of bacterial meningitis. There is a vaccine that stops infants and young children from getting this kind of
Meningococcal bacteria may cause infection in a part of the body -- the skin, gastrointestinal tract, or respiratory tract, for instance. For unknown reasons, the bacteria may then spread through the bloodstream to the nervous system. When it gets there, it causes meningococcal meningitis. Your risk for meningococcal meningitis increases if you are exposed to the bacterium that causes it. Your risk also increases if you've had a recent upper respiratory infection. Babies, children, and teens are at greatest risk.
Causes. Meningococcal disease is caused by the bacterium Neisseria meningitidis. About 1 out of 10 people have this type of bacteria in the back of their nose and throat with no signs or symptoms of disease; this is called being 'a carrier'. 
The germs that cause bacterial meningitis can be contagious. Some bacteria can spread through the exchange (e.g., by kissing) of respiratory and throat secretions (e.g., saliva or mucus). Fortunately, most of the bacteria that cause meningitis are not as contagious as viruses that cause the common cold or the flu. While most people with meningitis recover, it can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities. There are several pathogens (types of germs) that can cause bacterial meningitis.
Bacterial meningitis is usually severe. While most people with meningitis recover, it can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities. There are several pathogens (types of germs) that can cause bacterial meningitis.