Opana (oxymorphone) is also classified as an opioid analgesic medication. Opana is approved for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. There are two types of Opana, Opana and the longer acting Opana ER. According to medical references, 10 mg of Opana is approximately equivalent to 20 mg of oxycodone. The medicine also carries a black-box warning because of the risk of an overdose or accidental ingestion. The extended-release form of Opana is used for around-the-clock treatment of severe pain. It's not intended for use as an “as-needed” medicine. Don't stop taking this medicine without first talking to your doctor.
Q: Could you tell me about oxymorphone, which my doctor prescribed recently. A: Oxymorphone (brand names: Numorphan, Opana) is a narcotic pain reliever. Oxymorphone is used for the relief of moderate to severe acute pain. The most common side effects of oxymorphone are nausea, fever, tiredness, vomiting, and itching. The medicine also carries a black-box warning because of the risk of an overdose or accidental ingestion. The extended-release form of Opana is used for around-the-clock treatment of severe pain. It's not intended for use as an “as-needed” medicine. Don't stop taking this medicine without first talking to your doctor.
Opana (oxymorphone hydrochloride) is a narcotic pain reliever used to treat moderate to severe pain. The extended-release form of this medication is for around-the-clock treatment of pain. Opana is available in generic form. Common side effects of Opana include nausea, vomiting, fever, constipation, increased sweating, lightheadedness, headache, dizziness, drowsiness, rash, or itching. The dose of Opana is determined by the patient's age, condition, medical status, type and severity of the pain, and other factors.
Opana is the brand name of the prescription drug oxymorphone, which is used to treat moderate to severe pain. The medication is in a class of drugs called opiate analgesics. The drug is manufactured by Endo Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2006. The medicine also carries a black-box warning because of the risk of an overdose or accidental ingestion. The extended-release form of Opana is used for around-the-clock treatment of severe pain. It's not intended for use as an “as-needed” medicine. Don't stop taking this medicine without first talking to your doctor.
The only commercially available salt of oxymorphone in most of the world at this time is the hydrochloride, which has a free base conversion ratio of 0.891, and oxymorphone hydrochloride monohydrate has a factor of 0.85. It is a Schedule II controlled substance in the United States with an ACSCN of 9652. An oxymorphone nasal spray is being developed for this purpose but the release date is unknown; some practitioners prefer fentanyl immediate-release formulations such as Actiq or Fentora for this purpose although some patients have severe side effects from fentanyl.
Oxymorphone is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Oxymorphone is used to treat moderate to severe pain. The extended-release form of this medication is for around-the-clock treatment of pain. Oxymorphone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Oxymorphone may be habit-forming and should be used only by the person it was prescribed for. Keep the medication in a secure place where others cannot get to it. Do not drink alcohol while you are taking oxymorphone. Dangerous side effects or death can occur when alcohol is combined with a narcotic pain medicin
Licit Uses: Oxymorphone is indicated for the relief of moderate to severe pain. It is currently marketed both as immediate release tablets containing 5 mg and 10 mg and as extended release tablets containing 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, and 40 mg oxymorphone hydrochloride. 
Oxymorphone is mentioned, along with buprenorphine, oxycodone, dihydrocodeine, morphine and other opioids as a possible means of mitigating refractory depression. An oxymorphone nasal spray is being developed for this purpose but the release date is unknown; some practitioners prefer fentanyl immediate-release formulations such as Actiq or Fentora for this purpose although some patients have severe side effects from fentanyl.
Oxymorphone is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Oxymorphone is used to treat moderate to severe pain. The extended-release form of this medication is for around-the-clock treatment of pain. Oxymorphone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Do not drink alcohol while you are taking oxymorphone. Dangerous side effects or death can occur when alcohol is combined with a narcotic pain medicine. Check your food and medicine labels to be sure these products do not contain alcohol.