Leukemia is a cancer that starts in the blood-forming cells of the bone marrow. When one of these cells changes and becomes a leukemia cell, it no longer matures normally. Often, it divides to make new cells faster than normal. Leukemia cells also don't die when they should. Once in the blood, leukemia cells can spread to other organs, where they can prevent other cells in the body from functioning normally. Leukemia is different from other types of cancer that start in organs such as the lungs, colon, or breast and then spread to
In AML, the myeloid stem cells usually become a type of immature white blood cell called myeloblasts (or myeloid blasts). The myeloblasts in AML are abnormal and do not become healthy white blood cells. Sometimes in AML, too many stem cells become abnormal red blood cells or platelets. Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells, or platelets. Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
Myeloid cells originate in bone marrow or spinal cord, or a resemblance to the marrow or spinal cord. For example, myeloid leukemia is leukemia that arises from abnormal growth in the blood-forming tissue of the bone marrow. This term should not be confused with  myelin , which is an insulating layer covering the axons of many neurons.
The term myeloid (myelogenous) is an adjective that can refer to a progenitor cell for granulocytes, monocytes, erythrocytes, or platelets. Myeloid can be distinguished from the lymphoid progenitor cells that give rise to B cells and T cells. Myleloid is thus associated with the innate immune system, in contrast to lymphoid, which is associated with the adaptive immune system. For example, myeloid leukemia is leukemia that arises from abnormal growth in the blood-forming tissue of the bone marrow. This term should not be confused with  myelin , which is an insulating layer covering the axons of many neurons.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the blood cells that give rise to all the other blood cells and are derived from mesoderm. They are located in the red bone marrow, which is contained in the core of most bones. They give rise to both the myeloid and lymphoid lineages of blood cells. (Myeloid cells include monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils, erythrocytes, dendritic cells, and megakaryocytes or platelets. HSCs are found in the bone marrow of adults, specially in the pelvis, femur, and sternum. They are also found in umbilical cord blood and, in small numbers, in peripheral blood. Stem and progenitor cells can be taken from the pelvis, at the iliac crest, using a needle and syringe.
In order to harvest stem cells from the circulating peripheral blood, blood donors are injected with a cytokine, such as granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), that induces cells to leave the bone marrow and circulate in the blood vessels. HSCs are found in the bone marrow of adults, specially in the pelvis, femur, and sternum. They are also found in umbilical cord blood and, in small numbers, in peripheral blood. Stem and progenitor cells can be taken from the pelvis, at the iliac crest, using a needle and syringe.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and an earlier wave of definitive erythroid/myeloid progenitors (EMPs) differentiate from hemogenic endothelial cells in the conceptus. EMPs can be generated in vitro from embryonic or induced pluripotent stem cells, but efforts to produce HSCs have largely failed. 
Lymphoid stem cells give rise to the lymphocytes, which specifically identify foreign molecules and cells. The myeloid stem cells give rise to all of the other blood cells, including red blood cells. (But we put off red blood cells until the spring.). 1  Lymphocytes. 2  Lymphocytes are the only cells capable of adaptively (specifically) making the molecules (antibodies and T cell receptors) that specifically recognize antigens, which are molecules foreign to the body.
Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Normally, the bone marrow makes blood stem cells (immature cells) that become mature blood cells over time. A blood stem cell may become a myeloid stem cell or a lymphoid stem cell. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a white blood cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells: 1  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body. Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells, or platelets. Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow.