Tillage is the agricultural preparation of soil by mechanical agitation of various types, such as digging, stirring, and overturning. Examples of human-powered tilling methods using hand tools include shovelling, picking, mattock work, hoeing, and raking. Tillage can also mean the land that is tilled. The word  cultivation  has several senses that overlap substantially with those of tillage. In a general context, both can refer to agriculture. Within agriculture, both can refer to any of the kinds of soil agitation described above.
Video blog trailers and photos are available by clicking on the link above or the photo to the right. Guide to Pronouncing Terms in Soil Taxonomy and Soil Survey. The guide presents a list of terms that are used in Soil Taxonomy along with other terms used to describe soils. Included with each term are its origin, a respelling of the word for the purpose of pronunciation followed by the phonetic spelling in parentheses, and an audio file. 
It's smart. Soil conservation is the best way to make sure that we have the land we need to live on or, in my case, live in. If you see your soil eroding, protect it with grass or plants. If you see something that's making the soil sick, do everything you can to make the soil healthy again
Soil conservation. Soil conservation is a set of management strategies for prevention of soil being eroded from the Earth’s surface or becoming chemically altered by overuse, acidification, salinization or other chemical soil contamination. It is a component of environmental soil science. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: soil conservation (Noun). Protection of the soil against sediment loss by erosion or fertility loss due to degradation. soil conservation (Noun). A combination of all soil management and land use methods that protect against degradation. soil conservation (Noun). Protection of the soil against sediment loss by erosion or fertility loss due to degradation. soil conservation (Noun). A combination of all soil management and land use methods that protect against degradation
Concept. Soil Conservation is a combination of practices used to protect the soil from degradation. First and foremost, soil conservation involves treating the soil as a living ecosystem. First and foremost, soil conservation involves treating the soil as a living ecosystem, and recognizing that all the organisms that make the soil their home, play important roles in producing a fertile healthy environment.
• SOIL CONSERVATION (noun). The noun SOIL CONSERVATION has 1 sense: 1. protection of soil against erosion or deterioration. Familiarity information: SOIL CONSERVATION used as a noun is very rare. 
Concept Soil Conservation is a combination of practices used to protect the soil from degradation. First and foremost, soil conservation involves treating the soil as a living ecosystem. This means returning organic matter to the soil on a continual basis. First and foremost, soil conservation involves treating the soil as a living ecosystem, and recognizing that all the organisms that make the soil their home, play important roles in producing a fertile healthy environment.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Soil conservation is the prevention of soil from erosion or reduced fertility caused by overuse, acidification, salinization or other chemical soil contamination. slash-and-burn and other unsustainable methods of subsistence farming are practiced in some lesser developed areas. A sequel to the deforestation is typically large scale erosion, loss of soil nutrients and sometimes total desertification. Soil-conservation farming involves no-till farming, “green manures” and other soil-enhancing practices. Such farming methods attempt to mimic the biology of virgin land.