INTRODUCTION. Cholecystokinin (CCK) is the major hormone responsible for gallbladder contraction and pancreatic enzyme secretion. CCK, like other gastrointestinal hormones, is produced in discrete endocrine cells that line the mucosa of the small intestine [ 1 ]
This peptide hormone induces gall bladder contraction and the release of pancreatic enzymes in the gut. Its function in the brain is not clear. Binding to CCK-A receptors stimulates amylase release from the pancreas, binding to CCK-B receptors stimulates gastric acid secretion. 
1. cholecystokinin-a gastrointestinal hormone that stimulates the secretion of pancreatic enzymes and the contraction and emptying of the gall bladder; its release is stimulated by the presence of fatty acids and amino acids in the small intestine. cholecystokinin. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a hormone secreted by duodenal cells that stimulates the contraction of the gall bladder and secretion of pancreatic enzymes.
Cholecystokinin plays a key role in facilitating digestion within the small intestine. It is secreted from mucosal epithelial cells in the first segment of the small intestine (duodenum), and stimulates delivery into the small intestine of digestive enzymes from the pancreas and bile from the gallbladder. Cholecystokinin is the principle stimulus for delivery of pancreatic enzymes and bile into the small intestine. The most potent stimuli for secretion of cholecystokinin are the presence of partially-digested fats and proteins in the lumen of the duodenum (a particularly potent stimulus is pictured above).
CCK mediates digestion in the small intestine by inhibiting gastric emptying and decreasing gastric acid secretion. It stimulates the acinar cells of the pancreas to release digestive enzymes and stimulates the secretion of a juice rich in pancreatic digestive enzymes, hence the old name pancreozymin. CCK is very similar in structure to gastrin, another of the gastrointestinal hormones. CCK and gastrin share the same five amino acids at their C-termini. Most CCK peptides have a sulfate-group attached to the tyrosine in position 7 in the C-terminus.
Abbr. CCK. A hormone produced principally by the small intestine in response to the presence of fats, causing contraction of the gallbladder, release of bile, and secretion of pancreatic digestive enzymes. Also called pancreozymin. cholecystokinin. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a hormone secreted by duodenal cells that stimulates the contraction of the gall bladder and secretion of pancreatic enzymes.
CCK identified at bottom right. Cholecystokinin (CCK or CCK-PZ; from Greek chole, bile; cysto, sac; kinin, move; hence, move the bile-sac (gallbladder)) is a peptide hormone of the gastrointestinal system responsible for stimulating the digestion of fat and protein. CCK is very similar in structure to gastrin, another of the gastrointestinal hormones. CCK and gastrin share the same five amino acids at their C-termini. Most CCK peptides have a sulfate-group attached to the tyrosine in position 7 in the C-terminus.
cholecystokinin. a polypeptide hormone secreted in the small intestine, which stimulates gallbladder contraction and secretion of pancreatic enzymes. cholecystokinin. a gastrointestinal hormone liberated from the intestinal mucosa in response to arrival of the products of digestion from the stomach. It stimulates secretion of pancreatic enzymes and gallbladder contraction. Abbreviated CCK, CCK-PZ. Called also cholecystokinin-pancreozymin, pancreozymin