Discolored Nails This is a condition in which the nails turn a variety including yellow, blue, blue-gray, green, red and purple. Discoloration can be caused by poor circulation, a heart condition, or topical or oral medications. It may also indicate the presence of a systemic disorder.
The matrix justly so called, it is the program: what is regrown nail. Violation of the matrix disfigures the appearance of the nail plate. Furrows may appear at the wrong diet, because of which the body is lack of nutrients. So sometimes act irrationally prepared diets or vegetarian diets.
If the nail is not too deeply imbedded in the flesh, you can trim the corner of the nail in a curved shape to relieve the pressure on nail groove. If it is deep they should see a doctor. Onychophagy Is the medical term for nails that have been bitten enough to become deformed.
Bruised Nails is a condition in which a clot of blood forms under the nail plate. The clot is caused by injury to the nail bed. It can vary in color from maroon to black. In some cases, a bruised nail will fall off during the healing process.
Nail furrows: Transverse lines or grooves across the fingernails; transverse depressions in the nail plate caused by temporary cessation of cell division in the proximal nail matrix.
Melanonychia is a medical condition in which the nail plate has a pigmentation band that is either black or brown in color. There are two main types of melanonychia, meaning longitudinal (this being often times a sign of subungual melanoma) and transverse.
1 Ladder pattern ridges and furrows may be due to habit-tic dystrophy, which is the habitual picking or biting of the proximal nail folds. 2  The pattern appears as many transverse ridges with longitudinal furrows across the center of the nail.
Longitudinal nail grooves in children: Longitudinal nail grooves in children refer to furrows or ruts in a child's fingernails that run lengthwise. See detailed information below for a list of 9 causes of Longitudinal nail grooves in children, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes.
Six clinical types of nail fragility are delineated: longitudinal furrows and splitting (onychorrhexis), single longitudinal splitting, multiple crenellated splitting, lamellar splitting (onychoschizia), transverse splitting and nail friability. Changes may be observed in the keratin structure of fragile nails.