ROADSIDE ASSISTANCE One of the most valuable benefits of AAA membership is 24-hour-a-day Roadside Assistance. You can call for service whether you're in your own car, a friend's, or a rental, whether you're the driver or a passenger. If you are a AAA Plus member whose car is being towed and you need a rental car in Alabama, we will arrange for you to get a complimentary one car class upgrade in addition to the AAA discounted rate from a participating AAA Alabama preferred rental car provider location.
AAA Classic. Classic members receive standard benefits such as roadside assistance with the fastest response time in the industry, complimentary AAA maps and TourBook® guides, member discounts, access to insurance and vacation planning, and much more. Eligible vehicles include most passenger cars, trucks, SUVs and vans. The AAA Premier membership is designed to provide the ultimate in AAA benefits and service for enhanced convenience, luxury, and peace of mind. AAA Premier members also enjoy a dedicated phone number for all services.
AAA Premier Membership. In addition to AAA Plus benefits, you can upgrade your membership to AAA Premier which provides one tow up to 200 driving miles per household, a complimentary rental car for one day (in conjunction with an authorized tow in Alabama), and home lockout service. If you are a AAA Plus member whose car is being towed and you need a rental car in Alabama, we will arrange for you to get a complimentary one car class upgrade in addition to the AAA discounted rate from a participating AAA Alabama preferred rental car provider location.
Motorcycle coverage is available for all Membership plans and can be purchased for $35/year at a per-person level. Click to view: Benefits More Info F.A.Q. *Motorcycle roadside assistance benefits become effective 3 days after payment in full has been processed. Motorcycle Towing. Up to four (4) 100-mi. Classic is our core membership product that sets the standard of excellence in roadside assistance and provides safety, security, savings and peace of mind to our members.
All information in this document is subject to the terms and conditions of the Master Policy, a copy of which is in the possession of AAA Oklahoma. The terms and conditions of the Master Policy agree with the terms outlined in this guide to coverage. However, features and benefits are subject to change without notice. Covered Person  means a AAA Premier Member whose Primary Residence is in the United States and his/her Immediate Family Members traveling in the same Vehicle during Covered Travel.
Auto Insurance Through AAA. Getting the right auto insurance is an important decision. That’s why you can always expect more with insurance through AAA. You can always count on our agents to evaluate your specific needs and find you the right coverage at the right price. Up to 10% Membership Discount: Rewards AAA Members up to a 10% discount on auto insurance.***. Education & Occupation Discount: Rewards customers with a discount based on their education and occupation. Anti-Theft Device Discount: Comprehensive coverage discounts for approved theft prevention and recovery devices.
1 Your membership includes up to four (4) Roadside Assistance events per membership, per membership year. 2  For identification, safety and security purposes, we request that you be with the vehicle at the time of disablement and when the service vehicle arrives. Roadside assistance, including towing, is designed to assist you when the eligible vehicle you are either driving or riding in becomes disabled.
In order to protect yourself and your car in the event of an accident, it is important to purchase auto insurance. Not only is it important for your own protection, but it is also required by law in most states. It provides you with a safety net in the event of damages or loss. There comes a time when your car's book value is less than the cost of repairing it. You can find the current value of your car from the N.A.D.A. Official Used Car Guide. Plus, if you are already a AAA Member, you can save even more with AAA Insurance Agency. Rates for AAA Members have never been better-you can save up to $100*
AAA Plus Membership. Upgrade to AAA Plus and receive enhanced towing of up to 100 driving miles, free emergency fuel (AAA Classic members get free delivery but pay for the fuel) if you run out, increased vehicle locksmith coverage, and more. If you are a AAA Plus member whose car is being towed and you need a rental car in Alabama, we will arrange for you to get a complimentary one car class upgrade in addition to the AAA discounted rate from a participating AAA Alabama preferred rental car provider location.