Best Answer: It depends on how far it needs to travel and how close the sender & recipient are to a major mail depot. Some cities, such as Houston, TX, take an extra day within Houston's system. It can also be affected by what day of the week it is mailed. I have mailed a birthday card in Dallas, TX on Monday and it was delivered to a town in NH 30 mi north of Boston, NA, by end of day Thurs. I have also sent a curd to same address later in the week, Wed. or Thurs. and it took 10 days to be delivered to the same address. You can log onto www.USpS.com and input both zip codes to get an estimate of how long the Postmaster thinks it should take. My experience has been that it varies widely.
First-Class Mail. In most cases, the first-class mailing option takes from one to three days on average and three to five days for delivery to Alaska and Hawaii. To use the first-class mail option, prices are based on weight of up to 13 ounces maximum. For domestic packages, the United State Post Office Priority Mail and First-Class Mail options can offer savings on shipping methods with timely delivery over other more costlier methods.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: USPS first class mail in the United States from state to state takes 2-3 business days. Priority mail takes 2 days but it is not guaranteed. This will also depend on how long the ebay shipper takes to ship the item-some take up to 5 days if they are high volume. If it's international shipping, the only first class option is airmail which has no tracking and can take from 7-21 days. If you go with priority international mail, it's much more expensive - $15 and up-and takes around 7 days.
How long does it take for USPS to deliver first-class mail from Texas to California? 1-2 days, it depends where in California and Texas. First Class Mail is delivered in three to five days. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Different Jobs Available at the United States Postal Service During any given week, the United States Postal Service delivers billions of letters and parcels.
Report Abuse. USPS first class mail takes anywhere from 3 days to 14 days depending on when they process it, if the address is legible, etc. The average seems to be 7-10 days as of lately, unless you are shipping it within the same city. If it's international shipping, the only first class option is airmail which has no tracking and can take from 7-21 days. If you go with priority international mail, it's much more expensive - $15 and up-and takes around 7 days.
RE: How long does a first class mail take to deliver within UK? hi i ordered a game form Amazon.co.uk and payed extra for a first class mail and basically i was wondering how long it takes for a package to get delivered through 1st Class Mail. the deliver will take place within UK so its not coming from another country.
Timeframe. The United States Postal Services reports that as of January 2011, it takes an average of one to three days for First-Class Mail to arrive at its destination. Priority Mail takes an average of one to two days to arrive, according to the USPS. USPS only includes the time a package stays in transit in their estimations. Packages dropped off at a post office during business hours usually leave that day. Packages dropped off after hours may take an additional day.