When the Park is open to traffic, a runners' lane is always available, but we do not recommend running along the Park drives when they are open to traffic. The Park is officially closed from 1:00 am-6:00 am. New York Road Runners is the premier sponsor of running events in Central Park. The site of the TCS New York City Marathon's final 3.2 miles, Central Park offers both a scenic and challenging course to all levels of runners. There are three optimal places to run in Central Park:
Manhattan/Central Park. Central Park [1] is a large park in New York City, forming a vast green swathe of open space in Uptown Manhattan and a district in its own right, neatly separating the Upper East Side from the Upper West Side, whilst lying south of Harlem. 1 The Pool, west side of the park (btwn 100th to 103rd Sts). 2  One of the most idyllic and tranquil landscapes in Central Park, the Pool is an excellent spot for quiet contemplation, with its grassy banks and nearby waterfalls. 3  A stream, The Loch flows northeast from the Pool, through a stream valley called The Ravine.
Central Park is bordered on the north by Central Park N (110th St), on the east by Fifth Ave, on the south by Columbus Cir and Central Park S (59th St), and on the west by Central Park W (Eighth Ave, or Frederick Douglass Blvd north of Central Park). 1 The Pool, west side of the park (btwn 100th to 103rd Sts). 2  One of the most idyllic and tranquil landscapes in Central Park, the Pool is an excellent spot for quiet contemplation, with its grassy banks and nearby waterfalls. 3  A stream, The Loch flows northeast from the Pool, through a stream valley called The Ravine.
“I’m old-school. It took me a while to realize that the park is safe.”. A version of this article appears in print on December 29, 2011, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Dark Days Behind It, Central Park Pulses at Night. The Central Park Conservancy, which manages the park for the city, started a late shift — from 1:30 to 10 p.m. — in the late 1990s, as the park became safer. In the past year, four more workers were added to that shift, for a total of 40.
Irene Robert, , New York, NY. I have spent hours alone in Central Park simply walking around. Mostly during the day but sometimes during the evening. There is a heavy police presence in the park at all times so you are probably as safe in teh park as you are in Times Square on New Year's Eve. Ben Aughenba, Other Pro, , In addition to being extraordinarily beautiful, Central Park is also very safe. With a competent police presence and a high number of user traffic, there really is no place that you can't wander.
The 843 acres that make up Central Park are patrolled by the Central Park Precinct, a division of the New York City Police Department. This precinct can be reached by calling (212) 570-4820 or by visiting the station on the 86th Street Transverse Road, which cuts through the center of the park. Central Park has several call boxes that can be used in an emergency. Just some of these call boxes can be found in the following locations: » on West Drive at 100th, 102nd, 110th, 93rd, 90th, 83rd, 68th, and 60th Streets.
Safety Tips. If you are planning on enjoying a day in Central Park, it is a good idea to know where the park's safety resources are. Central Park has several call boxes that can be used in an emergency. Just some of these call boxes can be found in the following locations: » on West Drive at 100th, 102nd, 110th, 93rd, 90th, 83rd, 68th, and 60th Streets.
Running in Central Park. Offering both hilly and flat terrain and a combination of surfaces, Central Park is a runner's paradise. The site of the TCS New York City Marathon's final 3.2 miles, Central Park offers both a scenic and challenging course to all levels of runners. There are three optimal places to run in Central Park: