Everyone on SSI disability (Supplemental Security Income) is eligible for the same base amount, $733. But your actual monthly SSI payment will depend on whether you have any countable income, whether you are married, and what state you live in. 
Determining Your Benefits. How much money you receive in Social Security Disability benefits each month will depend on a variety of factors including which disability benefits you are eligible for (SSI or SSDI) and how much money you earned and paid into the Social Security system. As of 2008, the average SSDI payment to individuals who qualify for Social Security Disability benefits was $1,063.00 per month. The average SSI benefit was $439
The state you live in is immaterial since Social Security is federal-not state. If you are eligible for SSI disability (Supplemental Security Income) which is the federal welfare program, the maximum benefit payable is currently $674 ($698 in 2012). No benefits are payable to dependents. If you are eligible for Social Security disability (SSDI) your benefit amount is determined by how much you've paid into the Social Security system. If your SSDI is low enough you could also be entitled to SSI. It takes 90 to 120 days to process a disability claim. 33% are approved
Your SSI payment will be reduced by the amount of any income that you have, except for certain amounts that Social Security may disregard. In particular, Social Security disregards the first $20 of any monthly income, and the first $65 of any earned income (wages from work or self-employment income). To determine the amount of Sanjay’s SSI payment, subtract $307.50 from the federal base rate of $721, and Sanjay will receive $413.50. This example assumes that Sanjay is not eligible for a state supplement. If he were eligible for a state supplement, then his SSI payment would be higher by the amount of th
How much your Social Security disability benefit will be is based on your covered earnings -- the wages that you paid Social Security taxes on -- prior to becoming disabled. (Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) is the federal insurance program that provides benefits to qualified workers who can no longer work. To give you an idea of what you might receive, for 2015, the average SSDI benefit amount is $1,165 per month, but you can receive anywhere up to $2,663. If you're interested in how Social Security calculates your AIME and PIA, here's how
How much your monthly disability check will be depends on whether you'll receive Social Security Disability (SSD) or Supplemental Security Income (SSI). SSD is for workers who are insured under the Social Security retirement system. Or you can call or visit your local Social Security office to ask for help. Social Security applies a formula to your average lifetime earnings to calculate the amount of your monthly check. The average SSD payment is currently $1,165. The highest dollar amount you can receive from SSD monthly in 2015 is $2,663.
The SSI program currently pays a maximum benefit of $733 a month if you are single or $1,100 a month for a couple. This is the total amount you are eligible to receive, but it will be reduced by certain other benefits or income you may receive. Or you can call or visit your local Social Security office to ask for help. Social Security applies a formula to your average lifetime earnings to calculate the amount of your monthly check. The average SSD payment is currently $1,165. The highest dollar amount you can receive from SSD monthly in 2015 is $2,663.