1 Your squash will roast just fine without it, but I find that the water helps the squash steam and become more tender. 2  You can also cover the pan with aluminum foil, if you prefer. 3  Cook the squash for 30 to 45 minutes: Transfer the squash to the oven and cook for 30 to 45 minutes. 1 Place the squash in a roasting pan: Place the squash halves cut-side down in a roasting pan. 2  Pour in a little water (optional): Pour a little water in the pan, enough to cover the bottom. 3 
Directions. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. With a small sharp knife, prick squash all over. Place on a rimmed baking sheet and roast until tender when pierced with knife, about 1 hour 20 minutes, flipping halfway through. When cool enough to handle, halve lengthwise and scoop out seeds. Scrape squash with a fork to remove flesh in long strands.
1 Pierce the whole shell several times with a large fork or skewer and place in baking dish. 2  Cook squash in preheated 375°F oven approximately 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until flesh is tender, It took about 1 1/2 hours for mine to tender up. *****. ( 3 BOIL IT). 1 Place squash cut sides up in a microwave dish with 1/4 cup water. 2  Cover with plastic wrap and cook on high for 10 to 12 minutes, depending on size of squash. 3  Add more cooking time if necessary. 4  Let stand covered, for 5 minutes. 5  With fork comb out the strands.
Place squash cut-sides-down in a microwave-safe baking dish. Fill the dish with about 1 inch of water. Microwave on high for about 12 minutes, or until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. And now, to bake your spaghetti squash in the oven … (scroll down for microwave directions). Heat oven to 375 degrees. Brush the inside of each half with olive oil and sprinkle with coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper. Place cut-sides down on a baking sheet. Bake for about 40 minutes until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. Let cool for about 15 minutes, or until squash is cool enough to handle. With a fork, scrape out the spaghetti-like strands and prepare as desired
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Drizzle squash flesh with 2 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place cut side down on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet. Roast until squash is tender when pierced with a knife, about 1 hour. When cool enough to handle, gently scrape squash with a fork to remove flesh in long strands and transfer to a medium bowl. Toss with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, lemon juice, and parsley
1 Cook the squash for 30 to 45 minutes: Transfer the squash to the oven and cook for 30 to 45 minutes. 2  Smaller squash will cook more quickly than larger squash. 3  Check the squash after 30 minutes to gauge cooking. 1 Place the squash in a roasting pan: Place the squash halves cut-side down in a roasting pan. 2  Pour in a little water (optional): Pour a little water in the pan, enough to cover the bottom. 3  Your squash will roast just fine without it, but I find that the water helps the squash steam and become more tender.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Split the squashes in half and scrape out seeds. Line an oven tray with aluminum foil. Season the spaghetti squash with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Place flesh side down and roast for 30 to 40 minutes until fully cooked. Remove from the oven and let rest until cool enough to handle.
1 (BAKE IT). 2  Pierce the whole shell several times with a large fork or skewer and place in baking dish. 3  Cook squash in preheated 375°F oven approximately 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until flesh is tender, It took about 1 1/2 hours for mine to tender up. *****. ( 4 BOIL IT). 1 Place squash cut sides up in a microwave dish with 1/4 cup water. 2  Cover with plastic wrap and cook on high for 10 to 12 minutes, depending on size of squash. 3  Add more cooking time if necessary. 4  Let stand covered, for 5 minutes. 5  With fork comb out the strands.