1 Changes in the second half of the nineteenth century dramatically increased the government’s regulatory power. 2  The federal civil service, created by the 1883 Pendleton Civil Service Act, ensured that bureaucrats would be hired on the basis of merit rather than political connections.
The federal civil service was created by an Act of Congress in 1871. It was done to prevent the extreme unfairness in the hiring practices for those who worked for the government.
Which 1883 act of Congress outlawed political contributions by officeholders and created the Civil Service Commission to oversee competitive merit-based examinations for federal government positions?
The federal bureaucracy consists of the roughly 500 departments, agencies, administrations, authorities, and commissions that carry out responsibilities assigned to them through Congressional legislation. The oldest executive department is the Department of State, created by Congress in 1789.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The federal civil service was created by an Act of Congress in 1871. It was done to prevent the extreme unfairness in the hiring practices for those who worked for the government.
To the Congress of the United States: I am transmitting to the Congress today a comprehensive program to reform the Federal Civil Service system. My proposals are intended to increase the government's efficiency by placing new emphasis on the quality of performance of Federal workers.
PENDLETON ACT (16 January 1883), the federal government's central civil service law, was written by Dorman B. Eaton, sponsored by Sen. George H. Pendleton of Ohio, and forced through Congress by public opinion.
This act, largely drafted by the New York Civil Service Reform Association, created the Civil Service Commission, which was directed to create a system of competitive examinations to fill vacancies in federal service positions and to ensure that the civil service was not used for political purposes.