Directions. Preheat a grill to high heat. Place rib-eye steaks on a large platter and season with rub on all sides. Transfer seasoned steaks to the hot grill, and cook for 4 to 6 minutes on each side for medium-rare, longer if desired. Remove steaks and let rest for 5 to 10 minutes before serving. In a small bowl, combine all ingredients, to taste. Adjust the ratio of spices to your preference.
1 3 When the grill is ready, place the steak on the grates and cover the grill. 2  Cook, undisturbed, until grill marks appear on the bottom and the steak’s lightly charred on the edges, about 4 to 5 minutes. 3  Flip, cover the grill, and cook until the steak’s medium rare, about 4 minutes more. Instructions. 1  1 Remove the steak from the refrigerator and let it come to room temperature, about 30 to 45 minutes. 2  2 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to high (about 450°F to 550°F) and rub the grates with a towel dipped in vegetable oil. 3  3 When the grill is ready, place the steak on the grates and cover the grill. 4  4 Transfer the steak to a cutting ...
1 (This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 2  Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 3  Cooked uncovered for approximately 8 minutes. 4  Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 1 Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 2  To test remove a steak from direct heat and insert a meat thermometer into the middle of the steak. 3  For medium rare the temperature should be 135º F. (See below for more info) .
1 1 Remove the steak from the refrigerator and let it come to room temperature, about 30 to 45 minutes. 2  2 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to high (about 450°F to 550°F) and rub the grates with a towel dipped in vegetable oil. 3  Meanwhile, season the steak on all sides with salt and pepper. Instructions. 1  1 Remove the steak from the refrigerator and let it come to room temperature, about 30 to 45 minutes. 2  2 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to high (about 450°F to 550°F) and rub the grates with a towel dipped in vegetable oil. 3  3 When the grill is ready, place the steak on the grates and cover the grill. 4  4 Transfer the steak to a cutting ...
Continue to grill with the lid open for about 4 - 6 minutes. Flip the steaks over onto the other side, still over the hottest part of the grill. Grill the rib eye steaks for an additional 4 - 6 minutes on the other side, lid open, for a medium-rare delicious steak. Remove the steaks from the grill and allow to rest for 5 minutes before serving. The resting period is important so that the juices don't run out when you cut into the ribeye, so be patient!
Nobody wants that. The rib eye also has more connective tissue than other steaks, especially as it gets higher up toward the shoulder, and those tissues also need time to render and break down. A 1 1/2-inch steak should cook for about 5 minutes on each side in a hot skillet or grill. 
1 Once grill is preheated clean the grill with a grill brush to remove residue. 2  Add some oil to a paper towel and using tongs oil the hot grill by rubbing paper towel and oil across the bars of the grill. ( 3 This helps prevent the meat from sticking to the metal grill bars.). 4  Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 1 Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 2  To test remove a steak from direct heat and insert a meat thermometer into the middle of the steak. 3  For medium rare the temperature should be 135º F. (See below for more info) .
1 Purchase ribeye steaks that is at least 1-inch to 1-1/2 inches thick, with bright red color and abundant marbling. 2  Bring steak to room temperature — removing from the refrigerator at least 2 hours prior to cooking. 3  This will prevent over-charring or taking too long to cook. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 1 Place steak on very hot grill and close lid. 2  This will help the steak cook from all angles and sear in juices. 3  Cook ribeye steak with lid down for 4-5 minutes. 4  Resist the urge to open the lid and look.
1 Place ribeye steaks on freshly oiled grill. 2  Cooked uncovered for approximately 8 minutes. 3  Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 4  To test remove a steak from direct heat and insert a meat thermometer into the middle of the steak. 1 Flip the steak when the first side is looking done (aprox 8 minutes) and cook for another five minutes or so. 2  To test remove a steak from direct heat and insert a meat thermometer into the middle of the steak. 3  For medium rare the temperature should be 135º F. (See below for more info) .