Triac, Diac, SCR Tutorial Includes: Thyristor basics What is a triac Diac overview. Thyristors or silicon controlled rectifiers (SCR) as they are sometimes known may appear to be unusual electronics components in many ways, but they are particularly useful for controlling power circuits. It can be seen that current will only flow in one direction through the thyristor. If a reverse voltage is applied, then no current will flow, even if some gate current is applied. In this way for thyristor circuits used for AC, operation only occurs over one half of the AC waveform.
In many ways the Silicon Controlled Rectifier, or the Thyristor as it is more commonly known, is similar to the transistor. It is a multi-layer semiconductor device, hence the “silicon” part of its name. Like the diode, the Thyristor is a unidirectional device, that is it will only conduct current in one direction only, but unlike a diode, the thyristor can be made to operate as either an open-circuit switch or as a rectifying diode depending upon how the thyristors gate is triggered.
The TRIAC is a component that is effectively based on the thyristor. It provides AC switching for electrical systems. Like the thyristor, the TRIACs are used in many electrical switching applications. They find particular use for circuits in light dimmers, etc., where they enable both halves of the AC cycle to be used. 
Some people use the term silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) interchangeably with thyristor.. In fact, silicon-controlled rectifier is a brand name that General Electric introduced to describe one particular kind of thyristor that it made. 
The control terminal of the SCR is named the gate and it is connected to the p-type layer that adjoins the cathode layer. Structure of a thyristor or silicon controlled rectifier (SCR). Thyristors are usually manufactured from silicon, although, in theory other types of semiconductor could be used. The first reason for using silicon for thyistors is that silicon is the ideal choice because of its overall properties. It can be seen that current will only flow in one direction through the thyristor. If a reverse voltage is applied, then no current will flow, even if some gate current is applied. In this way for thyristor circuits used for AC, operation only occurs over one half of the AC waveform.
The thyristor or silicon controlled rectifier, SCR is a device that has a number of unusual characteristics. It has three terminals: Anode, cathode and gate, reflecting thermionic valve / vacuum tube technology. The silicon controlled rectifier, SCR or thyristor symbol used for circuit diagrams or circuit seeks to emphasis its rectifier characteristics while also showing the control gate. As a result the thyristor symbol shows the traditional diode symbol with a control gate entering near the junction.
A thyristor is one of the several controllable semi conductor devices that can act either like a switch, rectifier or as a voltage regulator. The thyristor is a solid-state analogue of the thyratron vacuum tube. The name thyristor is a combination of two words the thyratron and the transistor. A thyristor functions a little like a transistor. It consists of three electrodes: the gate, the anode and the cathode. The gate acts as the controlling electrode. The most common use of thyristors is in AC circuits. In an AC circuit the forward current drops to zero during every cycle so there will always be a turn off function. This does, however, mean that the gate needs to be triggered every cycle just to turn it back on again.
- the thyristor or silicon controlled rectifier, SCR is a device that is widely used for controlling or switching power and often high voltage AC or DC circuits. In this section. The silicon controlled rectifier, SCR or thyristor symbol used for circuit diagrams or circuit seeks to emphasis its rectifier characteristics while also showing the control gate. As a result the thyristor symbol shows the traditional diode symbol with a control gate entering near the junction.
thyristor, A semiconductor component that is unidirectional like a diode, but is switched like a transistor. It is widely used to control high currents and voltages in motors, lighting, heating and power applications. Once turned on at the gate, it allows current to flow until it falls below a certain threshold. 
A Thyristor is a Silicon Controlled Rectifier (SCR) which is functionally similar to a transistor. When voltage is applied to the gate, the SCR turns on (forward voltage onl … y) and conducts. A thyristor is a solid state three terminal electronic power  switch with two power terminals which carry the operational part of  the device current and one gate or trigger … terminal which is used  to switch on the thyristor when required.