Georgia was founded in 1732 by King George. James Edward Oglethorpe was helping out with the colonies establishment. 114 new settlers arrived in Savannah, the capital of Georg … ia. Georgia was the 13th colony to be founded in the 13 colonies! 1732 It was established in 1732. It was the last State to be restored to the Union 15th July 1870. Georgia was founded in 1733 by a man named James Oglethorpe. Georgia was founded for people in debt in England to have a place to start over. The colony of Georgia also created a buffer between the rest of the colonies and Spain.
The famous founder of the state of Georgia was James Oglethorpe. His main goal of founding this state was to help a lot of people in England who were facing a lot of ordeals and trial because of their numerous credits from one person or company to the other. He made a great thing become a reality and this for sure made those poor people truly happy as they will now have a place to go and grow their respective families. This land was called Georgia, one famous state of the United states of America. It was in 1733. The day when Mr. James, the legendary founder of Georgia finally ended the long years of struggle of those soon to be dwellers of this state. He for certain was thanked endlessly by those desperate people who finally found hope and joy and reason to celebrate in their new world, new land, and new life
The 3 reasons for the founding of Georgia are: Charity, Economics, and Defense. Oglethorpe founded Georgia for those 3 reasons, right, why would oglethorpe build a colony for defense? I understand charity and econimics, just not defense. Hellpp! 
In 1733, James Oglethorpe founded Georgia. Georgia was founded for people in debt in England to have a place to start over. The colony of Georgia also created a buffer between the rest of the colonies and Spain.
As visionary, social reformer, and military leader, James Oglethorpe conceived of and implemented his plan to establish the colony of Georgia. It was through his initiatives in England in 1732 that the British government authorized the establishment of its first new colony in North America in more than five decades.
The last american colony was Georgia, founded 50 years after the other twelve. It was founded by James Oglethorpe, a prison reformer. 
Georgia was founded with two main purposes: to serve as a place  where debtors in prison could go to start anew and also to serve as  a barrier against Spanish expansion fro … m Florida.   In 1732, James Oglethorpe was given a charter from King George II  to create a new colony, which he would name Georgia. This colony was founded for all of the prisoners in jail or people who where accused and prosecuted because of their religion to leave that colony or England to start anew in Georgia. It was also founded to protect the middle colonies from attacks.
Georgia, was the 13th and last colony to be established. James Edward Oglethorpe was the moving force behind the founding of the colony. Oglethorpe was a wealthy Londoner who spent his life working with the poor. He believed that the colony would be a better place to send poor people, many of whom were in debtor's prisons. 
February 12, 1733 - Savannah. After years of planning and two months crossing the Atlantic, James Oglethorpe and 114 colonists climbed 40 feet up the bluff from the Savannah River on this day in 1733 and founded the colony of Georgia. George II granted the Georgia trustees a charter for the colony a year earlier. 