Riding a stationary bike works your core, in addition to your lower body. Photo Credit kzenon/iStock/Getty Images. Pedaling a stationary bike in the privacy of your home or while visiting a gym helps you improve your cardiovascular conditioning and burn calories without harming your joints. Not Just For Your Lower Body. As you pedal the stationary bike, you're strengthening a multitude of muscles concurrently. Pedaling works your glutes and hip flexors, plus leg muscles such as your quadriceps, calves and hamstrings.
In addition to these muscles, riding a stationary bike also works your glutes, hamstrings and hip flexors. To a lesser extent, this workout strengthens your abdominal and oblique muscles, which are found to the front and sides of your stomach, respectively. The rate at which you burn calories depends on such factors as your weight, the speed at which you pedal and the length of your workout. Someone who weighs 155 pounds will burn 260 calories in 30 minutes of riding a stationary bike at a moderate pace and 391 calories in 30 minutes of vigorous pedaling.
Riding a stationary bike is primarily a workout for the muscles in your lower body, and if you pedal vigorously and use the bike on a regular basis, you'll likely begin to see muscle development in your quads and calves. The rate at which you burn calories depends on such factors as your weight, the speed at which you pedal and the length of your workout. Someone who weighs 155 pounds will burn 260 calories in 30 minutes of riding a stationary bike at a moderate pace and 391 calories in 30 minutes of vigorous pedaling.
Riding a stationary bike works out your hamstrings, calves, hip flexors and quadriceps. While an upright bike may appear to offer a more strenuous workout, a study published in 2005 in the journal “Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation” found that at low intensity, a recumbent bike workout was more strenuous. Upper Body Conditioning. With concentrated effort, you can work out your upper body while riding a stationary bike. Some bike models have movable arm handles, which can be used in a rowing motion while pedaling the machine.
An exercise bike can provide a great workout. The larger muscles of the legs are the primary movers in an exercise bike workout and include the quadriceps (thighs), the hamstrings (back of the legs), and the glutes (butt muscles.) In addition, the hip flexors and the calves are active when cycling. In addition an exercise bike requires work from your hip flexors (muscles on front of your hips), gluteals, and your abdominals to help stabilize your pelvis and spine. However, the most important muscle an exercise bike works is your heart.
Best Answer: An exercise on a (stationary) bike is a cardio exercise. As far as cardio exercise is concerned, toning (if you mean making your legs look leaner and slimmer and have shapes) doesn't come into the picture. What exercise biking does is just this-moving your leg muscles in the exercise. Wendy, besides the legs it also targets the abdominal muscles and the butt muscles, and the heart, a great cardio work out, Yes the exercise of riding a bike will tone your legs, it will help you burn fat and get rid of excess weight.
A stationary bike works out a lot more than just your leg muscles. With proper form, an exercise bike workout can actively engage muscles across your body. Upright and recumbent bikes each offer their own muscle-conditioning benefits. Upper Body Conditioning. With concentrated effort, you can work out your upper body while riding a stationary bike. Some bike models have movable arm handles, which can be used in a rowing motion while pedaling the machine.
The reclined recumbent bike position provides an efficient workout for your glutes and abdominal muscles. To strengthen your core while riding a stationary bike, draw in your stomach towards your spine, which should tilt your pelvis and flatten your back. Upper Body Conditioning. With concentrated effort, you can work out your upper body while riding a stationary bike. Some bike models have movable arm handles, which can be used in a rowing motion while pedaling the machine.
To Your Health! I like the stationary bike for weight loss over the recumbent bike. With the stationary bike you have to use more postural muscles to perform your workout. With the recumbent bike you are going to use fewer muscles in your back and hips to stabilize your larger leg muscle doing the work. 
A National Academy of Sports Medicine answered. An exercise bike primarily works your leg muscles including your quadriceps, hamstrings, and calves. In addition an exercise bike requires work from your hip flexors (muscles on front of your hips), gluteals, and your abdominals to help stabilize your pelvis and spine. However, the most important muscle an exercise bike works is your heart.