Over 70% of mammal species are in the orders Rodentia (blue), Chiroptera (red), and Soricomorpha (yellow). Mammalia is a class of animal within the Phylum Chordata. Mammal classification has been through several iterations since Carolus Linnaeus initially defined the class. Many earlier ideas have been completely abandoned by Linnaeus and modern taxonomists, among these are the idea that bats are related to birds or that humans represent a group outside of other living things.
- includes all animals with mammary glands …. Mammals are members of class Mammalia, air-breathing vertebrate animals characterized by the possession of endothermy, hair, three middle ear bones, and mammary glands functional in mothers with young.
Mammals are a class of animals belonging to the Phylum Chordata and Subphylum Vertebrata. They are defined by certain characteristics which all mammals share, including: gland … s that produce milk, hair, three bones in the middle ear, and a neocortex in the brain. Most mammals are born live, but there are exceptions. Phylum is the first division amonst the Kingdom, there are about 40 of them, one is 'Chordata', animals with a spinal cord. All fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals, have this. This is why they are grouped together in the phylum level, before being divided by Class, such as Mammalia, and Aves.
Mammals (class Mammalia /məˈmeɪli.ə/ from Latin mamma breast) are any members of a clade of endothermic amniotes distinguished from reptiles and birds by the possession of hair, three middle ear bones, mammary glands, and a neocortex (a region of the brain). In an influential 1988 paper, Timothy Rowe defined Mammalia phylogenetically as the crown group mammals, the clade consisting of the most recent common ancestor of living monotremes (echidnas and platypuses) and therian mammals (marsupials and placentals) and all descendants of that ancestor.
All animals in the Chordate Phylum have backbones. They are also called vertebrates.. The Chordate Phylum is split into Classes. Several Classes are listed below: Mammal Class: These animals usually have hair/fur. They give birth to live young and feed their young with milk. 
The word  mammal  is modern, from the scientific name Mammalia coined by Carl Linnaeus in 1758, derived from the Latin mamma (teat, pap). All female mammals nurse their young with milk, which is secreted from special glands, the mammary glands. In an influential 1988 paper, Timothy Rowe defined Mammalia phylogenetically as the crown group mammals, the clade consisting of the most recent common ancestor of living monotremes (echidnas and platypuses) and therian mammals (marsupials and placentals) and all descendants of that ancestor.
Animals: Phylum Chordata-Vertebrata; Mammals; Ziser Lecture Notes, 2008 7  traps layers of insulating airin aquatic mammals (fur seal, otter, beaver)its almost impossible to wet skin guard hair coarse and longprotection against wearcoloration some also have hair modifications: a. Animals: Phylum Chordata-Vertebrata; Mammals; Ziser Lecture Notes, 2008 35 in mud on feet of birds, etc.burs, beggars ticks, devils claw, etc. 3. Food and Crop Loss rodents and rabbits cause “staggering” amounts ofdamage to crops and stored food each year 4.