How to Uninstall Avast! To completely uninstall avast! Free Antivirus 7 from your computer, you need to remove the avast! Internet Security (Size, 375.00MB), the Google Chrome (Size, 166.00MB) and the Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 Redistributable – x86 9.0. Free Antivirus 7. To completely uninstall avast! Free Antivirus 7 from your computer, you need to remove the avast! Internet Security (Size, 375.00MB), the Google Chrome (Size, 166.00MB) and the Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 Redistributable – x86 9.0.
The Avast Software Uninstall Utility is a stand-alone program that will scan your computer for Avast products and uninstall all traces of them. Unfortunately, there are times that you will not be able to uninstall Avast programs as you normally should via the Add or Remove Programs control panel. Usage Instructions: To uninstall Avast programs using the Avast Uninstall Utility, please perform the following steps: 1  Restart your computer in Safe Mode. 2  At the login prompt, login as a user with administrative rights. 3  Once you are at your desktop, double-click on the aswclear.exe file.
Uninstalling on a PC. First, you'll want to try uninstalling avast! using the traditional method. Click on the start button and click on Control Panel. From the control panel, click on 'Uninstall a program' and then find Avast! in the list. Click 'Uninstall/Change' and avast! will prompt you with a setup menu. Choose 'Uninstall' at the bottom and click 'Next.'. You'll get a warning that an attempt has been made to uninstall avast!. You'll have to restart your computer to fully uninstall. Force uninstalling on a PC. If you're experiencing errors or a stubborn installation of avast!, try using the avast! Uninstall Utility. Simply select the avast! product you wish to remove. Click 'uninstall' and confirm you want to remove the program.
Sometimes it's not possible to uninstall Avast the standard way-using the ADD/REMOVE PROGRAMS in control panel. In this case, you can use our uninstallation utility avastclear. 1  Download avastclear.exe on your desktop. 2  Start Windows in Safe Mode. 3  Open (execute) the uninstall utility. 4  If you installed Avast in a different folder than the default, browse for it. 5  Click REMOVE. 6  Restart your computer
Using avast! So let’s have a look at how we can use the tool to completely remove Avast Antivirus from the computer. The tool is designed for Windows Vista/Win7/Win8 32-bit and 64-bit computers and can be used to remove Avast antivirus version 7.x and 8.x Free/Professional Internet Security. Ads by Google. Before you use the Avast Cleanup Tool, you must remove Avast from the computer using Windows Add/Remove Programs. That’s the right way to do it. The tool comes packed as an archive file and must be extracted to
1) Click on the following link and download the Avast Uninstall Utility to your desktop. http://files.avast.com/files/eng/aswclear.exe. 2) Double-click on the file ASWCLEAR and run it. 3) You should see the following screen. 4) Click on the ellipsis and choose the folder where Avast is installed. This folder is usually in the Program Files directory.
Completely uninstall Avast from your system. 1  1. Download aswClear.exe on your desktop. 2  2. Disable Avast!'s self-protection system or restart Windows in Safe Mode. 3  3. Run the downloaded utility. 4  4. Locate the folder where you saved Avast! 5  Warning: The contents of any folder you choose will be deleted. 6  5. 7  6. 1 1. Download aswClear.exe on your desktop. 2  2. Disable Avast!'s self-protection system or restart Windows in Safe Mode. 3  3. Run the downloaded utility. 4  4. Locate the folder where you saved Avast! 5  Warning: The contents of any folder you choose will be deleted. 6  5. 7  Click Uninstall. 8  6.
Once Avast has been removed from the computer system, it becomes vulnerable to viruses,malware and spyware. To uninstall Avast completely, restart the computer system in the normal mode once the uninstaller has finished removing Avast. For data security purposes, a new anti-virus must be installed soon. To completely uninstall Avast ! Free Antivirus (or Avast! Pro), simply use the uninstall utility. 1 1. Download aswClear.exe on your desktop. 2  2. Disable Avast!'s self-protection system or restart Windows in Safe Mode. 3  3. Run the downloaded utility. 4  4. Locate the folder where you saved Avast! 5  Warning: The contents of any folder you choose will be deleted. 6  5. 7  Click Uninstall. 8  6.