Nervous tissue is composed of neurons, also called nerve cells, and neuroglial cells. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. Cells of nervous tissue. Nervous tissue is the main component of the two parts of the nervous system; the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and the branching peripheral nerves of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which regulates and controls bodily functions and activity.
The cells in nervous tissue that generate and conduct impulses are called neurons or nerve cells. These cells have three principal parts: the dendrites, the cell body, and one axon. The main part of the cell, the part that carries on the general functions, is the cell body. Nervous tissue is found in the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. It is responsible for coordinating and controlling many body activities. It stimulates muscle contraction, creates an awareness of the environment, and plays a major role in emotions, memory, and reasoning.
Nerve cells, also called Neurons. 2. Interstitial/Supportive cells, also called Neuroglia or Neuroglial cells. 3. Connective tissue proper of the nervous tissue which include: a. Meninges of the brain and spinal cord b. Connective tissue of the blood vessels of the nervous tissue. The specialized cells of the nervous tissue are called NEURONS while the supportive cells are called NEUROGLIAL CELLS. The electrochemical wave conducted along the plasma membrane is referred to as NERVE IMPULSE.
The peripheral nervous system consists of the nerves that extend to all reaches of the body or the periphery. The central nervous system is made up of the spinal cord and brain and is the central processing center for all stimuli. Peripheral nervous tissue consists of nerves made up of nerve cells called neurons. Nerves extend all over the body, from the tips of the fingers to internal organs. They form a long line of connectivity, like a chain of paper clips linked together
It is composed of neurons, or nerve cells, which receive and transmit impulses, and neuroglia, also known as glial cells or more commonly as just glia (from the Greek, meaning glue), which assist the propagation of the nerve impulse as well as providing nutrients to the neuron. Cells of nervous tissue. Nervous tissue is the main component of the two parts of the nervous system; the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and the branching peripheral nerves of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which regulates and controls bodily functions and activity.
Nervous tissue is composed of two types of cells, neurons and glial cells. Neurons are the primary type of cell that most anyone associates with the nervous system. They are responsible for the computation and communication that the nervous system provides. 
Nervous Tissue (100X). Two basic types of cells are found in nervous tissue. Neurons are large cells that function to conduct impulses from one part of the nervous system to another (example: from the spinal cord to the brain). Neuroglia are small cells that glue the neurons together (they have many other functions as well). 
Structure [edit]. Nervous tissue is composed of neurons, also called nerve cells, and neuroglial cells. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. Cells of nervous tissue. Nervous tissue is the main component of the two parts of the nervous system; the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and the branching peripheral nerves of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which regulates and controls bodily functions and activity.
Nervous tissue, shown in Figure 14, functions in the integration of stimulus and control of response to that stimulus. Nerve cells are called neurons. Each neuron has a cell body, an axon, and many dendrites. Nervous tissue is composed of two main cell types: neurons and glial cells. Neurons transmit nerve messages. Glial cells are in direct contact with neurons and often surround them. 