Step 2 – Initiate a Connection. Once logged into your Skype account, click on the tab with a Facebook icon on it. This is the place you’ll see all of your Facebook friends once you connect the two accounts. Click Connect to Facebook. If you use Skype and Facebook chat a lot, you should connect the two and somewhat organize your chats in one single application. But once again, take good care of your Facebook privacy, because you don’t want to send a public update instead of a Skype message to a single person.
9. Lastly, you can post a Facebook status update from within Skype. Go to your Skype homepage and type in the Tell your friends what you're up to text box. You'll see another check box with Also post to Facebook -- leave that ticked to send your new status to Facebook. Sorting Your Contacts. In addition to showing you your Facebook news from within Skype, connecting your accounts will also let you import your Facebook friends into your Skype contacts list. If you click the arrow above your list of contacts, you can sort between All, Skype, Online and Facebook..
Before getting Skype Connect, make sure you meet the requirements. To get Skype Connect, first you need to set up your Skype Manager: 1  Create your Skype Manager account. 2  Follow the instructions to register for Skype Manager. 3  You can either use your existing personal account or create a new one specifically for your Skype Manager. You’re now ready to use Skype Connect and can: 1  Create SIP Profiles. 2  A SIP Profile is a SIP user account that contains all of the configuration data for your Skype Connect service. 3  Learn more about creating SIP Profiles. 4  Buy Channel Subscriptions. 5  Channel Subscriptions are the subscriptions for simultaneous calling channels you would like to use ...
Skype is a program that allows you to connect with your friends and family via chat, Web video, instant messaging and calls from your computer to other computers or land lines and mobiles. It can also be used for small businesses. The software is free to use. All you have to do is download it to your computer. Instructions. Navigate to skype.com/intl/en-us/get-skype and download the program for Windows or your mobile device. Click Save and follow the installation instructions to complete the download. Create a profile and register with a Skype ID name and password.
Start skype, at the top once you are signed in. click tools, click options, then click video settings on the left. then, on the rigt screen that comes up, at the top, where it says select webcam, click there. and change it to your webcam. you should see your self in the video box, to show its working. then, at the bottom right, click save.
Skype Connect ™ Quick Start Guide This guide shows you how to set up and use Skype Connect ™ . Skype Connect provides connectivity between your business and the Skype community. 1. Go to: skype.com/go/skype.manager.setup2. Follow the on-screen instructions to set up your Skype Manager. The account you use to set up your Skype Manager will be used to administer Skype products throughout your business.
Once you’re signed in to Skype Manager, click Features in the toolbar, then click Skype Connect in the Features menu on the left. You’re now ready to use Skype Connect and can: 1  Create SIP Profiles. 2  A SIP Profile is a SIP user account that contains all of the configuration data for your Skype Connect service. 3  Learn more about creating SIP Profiles. 4  Buy Channel Subscriptions. 5  Channel Subscriptions are the subscriptions for simultaneous calling channels you would like to use ...
For more information on how to set up your Skype Manager, please see the Skype Manager User Guide. Set up 1 Skype Manager™ 2 Create your SIP Profile SIP Profiles let you manage how you use your SIP-enabled PBX or gateway with Skype. 1. Sign in to Skype Manager and click Features in the toolbar. 1. Go to: skype.com/go/skype.manager.setup2. Follow the on-screen instructions to set up your Skype Manager. The account you use to set up your Skype Manager will be used to administer Skype products throughout your business.
Click All Programs and click Skype from the application list. Login to your Skype account using your username and password. Click the person's name under Contacts in the left pane to select them. Click the Call button in the right pane to call the person. 