1 Some therapy or counseling is provided at no cost through medical clinics, or hospitals. 2  Services for students are available in most schools (Grades 1 to 12) or the counseling services of most colleges and universities. 3  There are no charges for the services of family doctors or psychiatrists. 1 Private services are available and are covered by some insurance plans. 2  The cost for private counseling or therapy can range from $50 to $240 for a one-hour session. 3  The recommended rate is different in different provinces. 4  Group therapy may be less expensive than individual therapy.
Find out what options you have and think about what is going to work best for you. 1  About Psychotherapy. 2  What Psychotherapy does. 3  Finding a Psychotherapist. 4  Cost of Psychotherapy. 5  Brief Psychotherapy. 6  Couple Therapy. 7  Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy. 8  The Issues. How much you pay for psychotherapy is important but it's qualifications and fit that decide the quality of the service. Cost is an obvious factor in deciding on any service. In the case of psychotherapy, and if you live in Toronto, or anywhere else in Ontario for that matter, OHIP will cover your therapy with a medical doctor. This is a very attractive option indeed but it does have some drawbacks and it is not the only one you have
Discussing Fees. The average cost of private psychotherapy across Canada is between $125-175 per session. HST is payable because it is not regarded as a medical expense. Every member of this network is free to set their own fee scale and some offer sliding fees based on client income. The fees we charge enable us to continue our work and in many cases are less than those charged by Toronto therapists. The final question is not whether therapy is worthwhile but whether you think you are deserving of a better life.
Many of our patients do not pay out-of-pocket for Massage Therapy. This is because Toronto Physiotherapy is an approved provider for: Extended Health Insurance and Ontario Auto Insurers (Motor Vehicle Accidents). 40 minutes – $88. 60 minutes – $115. Physiotherapy services are tax-free. Acupuncture, the AlterG antigravity treadmill, and a variety of other treatment modalities can be included as part of your physiotherapy sessions at no extra cost.
If you are not a patient at our clinic, or if you would like to use the AlterG on your own, the following fees apply: Introductory Session: 30 minutes: $35 (tax-free). If you have never before used the AlterG at our clinic then you must complete an introductory session. In this 30 minute session you will quickly learn how to operate the machine, have time to ask any questions you may have, and use it. 40 minutes – $88. 60 minutes – $115. Physiotherapy services are tax-free. Acupuncture, the AlterG antigravity treadmill, and a variety of other treatment modalities can be included as part of your physiotherapy sessions at no extra cost.
Just wondering if anyone can share their experiences/cost of kids in Speech Therapy. I've only called one company and the initial assessent which includes 1 hour face-to-face + 1/2 hour to write the report is $190. 
A Registered Massage Therapist earns an average wage of C$39.37 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. A skill in Physical Therapy is associated with high pay for this job. 
If you are looking for a family therapist, contact the Ontario Association for Marriage and Family Therapy at (416) 364-2627 in Toronto or toll-free at 1-800-267-2638. You can also view their Web site at www.oamft.on.ca. These fees range from about $40 to $180 per hour. However, the fee will vary depending on the therapist's experience and training and the type of therapy. (Group therapy may be less expensive.) Some therapists offer a sliding scale, which means that they can offer a reduced fee based on your income.