Greek mythology. The Greek mythology is one of the most fascinating mythological accounts of the ancient world. The Greek myths were actually efforts of the people to explain the creation of the world, the nature around them, weather conditions and generally any superhuman that was happening in their daily life. 
Leto. Leto with Apollo and Artemis. In Greek mythology Lētō' (Greek: λητώ, Lato in Dorian Greek, the hidden one) is known to be a daughter of the Titans Coeus and Phoebe, and in the Olympian scheme of things, Zeus is the father of her twins, Apollo and Artemis. In Roman mythology her equivalent, as mother of Apollo and Diana, is Latona. Leto was the principal goddess of Anatolian Lycia. Her sanctuary, the Letoon near Xanthos, united the Lycian confederacy of city-states. The people of Cos also claimed Leto as their own.
by Ron Leadbetter. Leto, the daughter of the Titans Phoebe and Coeus. Known as the hidden one and bright one, her name came to be used for the moon Selene. Hera was jealous of Leto because Zeus, the husband of Hera, had fallen in love with her. From their union Leto bore the divine twins, Artemis and Apollo.
Leto in Greek Mythology. “Phoebe went to the much longed-for bed of Koios, and she, a goddess loved by a god, conceived and gave birth to dark-robed Leto, ever sweet, gentle to men and to gods who never die, sweet from the beginning, gentlest of all the Olympians.”. Home | Greek Gods | Titans | Leto. 
Apollo Playing Kithara Between Leto and Artemis. As it is in heaven, so on earth: the very public birth of Frederick Hohenstaufen, the future Holy Roman Emperor, was a requirement to reassure dynastic legitimacy. In Roman mythology her equivalent, as mother of Apollo and Diana, is Latona. Leto was the principal goddess of Anatolian Lycia. Her sanctuary, the Letoon near Xanthos, united the Lycian confederacy of city-states. The people of Cos also claimed Leto as their own.
Leto was a Titan goddess in Greek mythology, daughter of the Titans Coeus and Phoebe. She was an early and favourite lover of Zeus. Zeus married Hera while Leto was pregnant. While the pregnancy started before the marriage, Hera was still jealous of Leto. For the duration of Leto 's pregnancy, Hera created problems.
Leto, mother of Apollo and Artemis. Leto in ancient Greek myths was the representation of motherhood. Like every mother, she suffered a lot to give birth to her children and then to protect and raise them up in the proper way. 
You can help Mythology Wiki by expanding it. Leto and her children. Leto (meaning the hidden one), was the daughter of the Titans Coeus and Phoebe. She had a sister, Asteria, who was married to the Titan of destruction (Perses), their cousin. When Perses was imprisoned after the war, Asteria turned into a quail to escape the lustful eye of Zeus. 
Who Was Niobe: In Greek mythology, Niobe, who was the daughter of Tantalus, the queen of Thebes, and the wife of King Amphion, foolishly boasted that she was more fortunate than Leto (Latona, for the Romans), the mother of Artemis and Apollo, because she had more children than Leto. Burial of the Children: In the Iliad, attributed to Homer, the children of Niobe, lying in their own blood, are unburied for nine days because Zeus turned the people of Thebes to stone. On the tenth day the gods buried them and Niobe resumed her life by eating once again.