Liver function tests or LFTs are blood tests designed to determine how well your liver is working. The concentrations of several liver enzymes in your blood, including alanine aminotransferase, serve as good indicators of liver damage. High levels of alanine aminotransferase usually indicate a damaged liver. 
An alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test measures the level of ALT enzyme in your blood. ALT is an enzyme produced by liver cells. It helps the body metabolize proteins. If the liver is damaged or not functioning properly, ALT is released into the blood. This causes ALT levels to increase. The ALT test is performed on a blood sample. An elastic band is wrapped around your upper arm to stop the flow of blood and make the veins in your arm more visible. This makes it easier to insert the needle.
ALT is an enzyme (chemical) that is normally produced by your liver and found in your blood. It aids in the metabolism (digestion and processing) of certain amino acids (parts of proteins). It used as a surrogate indicator of liver damage. Most problems with the liver cause the ALT to be elevated. However, an elevated ALT (in the range yours is) does not necessarily mean that there is a major problem with the liver. Certain drugs and supplements can put strain on the liver, causing the ALT to go up
Individual suffering from increased levels of SGPT due to some liver or heart disease must also be on strict diet restrictions and proper rest. Initially the damage in the liver can be detected by simple blood test. It determines the presence of ALT which is related with SGPT in the blood. Usually under the normal circumstances this enzyme is concentrated within the cells of the liver. The increase in the levels of SGPT in the blood indicates the disease related to liver. Normally ALT (SGPT) is found in the liver in large quantity. We can't say that this enzyme is located exclusively in the liver but it is concentrated in large quantity there.
Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT). Guide. An alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test measures the amount of this enzyme in the blood. ALT is found mainly in the liver, but also in smaller amounts in the kidneys, heart, muscles, and pancreas. ALT was formerly called serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT). Low levels of ALT are normally found in the blood. But when the liver is damaged or diseased, it releases ALT into the bloodstream, which makes ALT levels go up.
A. SGPT is an abbreviation for a serum blood test of an enzyme produced in the liver and in the heart. SGPT enzymes are released into the blood stream when damage to the heart or liver occur. Elevated SGPT levels are thus observed with heart and liver abnormalities. 
^ Back to top. Normally, levels of ALT in the blood are low. Very high levels of ALT (more than 10 times normal) are usually due to acute hepatitis, sometimes due to a viral infection. In acute hepatitis, ALT levels usually stay high for about 1-2 months but can take as long as 3-6 months to return to normal.
The alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test is typically used to detect liver injury. It is often ordered in conjunction with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or as part of a liver panel to screen for and/or help diagnose liver disease. Very high levels of ALT (more than 10 times normal) are usually due to acute hepatitis, sometimes due to a viral infection. In acute hepatitis, ALT levels usually stay high for about 1-2 months but can take as long as 3-6 months to return to normal.
The alanine aminotransferase (ALT) test is done to: 1  Identify liver disease, especially cirrhosis and hepatitis caused by alcohol, drugs, or viruses. 2  Help check for liver damage. 3  Find out whether jaundice was caused by a blood disorder or liver disease. 4  Keep track of the effects of medicines that can damage the liver. Low levels of ALT are normally found in the blood. But when the liver is damaged or diseased, it releases ALT into the bloodstream, which makes ALT levels go up.