The  common cold  is usually caused by a viral infection and treatment is directed at managing symptoms while the body's own immune system fights the infection. Common symptoms of an upper respiratory infection such as a cold include a runny nose, post-nasal drip, cough, and nasal congestion. If laryngitis develops (larynx=voice box + itis=inflammation), the patient may lose their voice or become hoarse.
Causes. Acute sinusitis can be caused by viral, bacterial, or fungal infections. Allergans and environmental irritants are other possible causes. In most cases, acute sinusitis is caused by an upper respiratory tract viral infection, such as the common cold, and usually resolves on its own. 
Respiratory tract infections (RTIs) can be caused by viruses, bacteria and (less often) fungi. Most common respiratory tract infections such as colds, sore throats, sinusitis and laryngitis are caused by viruses. One type of virus can cause more than one type of RTI. For example, the viruses that cause a cold can also cause: 1  sinus infections (sinusitis)
The most common type of illness caused by these bacteria, especially in children, is tracheobronchitis, commonly called a chest cold. This illness is often seen with other upper respiratory tract symptoms, like a sore throat. 
1 Upper respiratory infections can happen at any time, but are most common in the fall and winter. 2  The vast majority of upper respiratory infections are caused by viruses and are self-limited. 3  Symptoms of upper respiratory infection include. 4  cough, 5  sneezing, 6  nasal discharge, 7  nasal congestion, 8  runny nose, 9  fever, 
Bacterial or Viral Infections of the Respiratory Tract. Viral illnesses are the most common cause of upper respiratory symptoms. Symptoms of a viral illness often appear over several hours without prior illness. Common viral illnesses include colds and the flu (influenza). Bacterial respiratory tract infections are less common than viral infections. The most common sites of bacterial infections in the upper respiratory system are the sinuses and throat. Pneumonia is the most common bacterial infection of the lower respiratory system.
Lower respiratory tract infections are more likely to cause fever, dyspnea, or chest pain than upper respiratory tract infections. Cough is often present in either upper or lower tract infections. People with influenza commonly have acute onset of fever, myalgia, headache, and cough. Upper respiratory infection is more common than lower respiratory infection. In general, the types of respiratory infections that affect travelers are similar to those in nontravelers, and exotic causes are rare. Clinicians must inquire about history of travel when evaluating a patient for respiratory
The Common Cold. Caused by any one of around 200 viruses; rhinoviruses are the most common cause (about 50%). Symptoms include sneezing, nasal secretions, and congestion. Complications include sinus infections, lower respiratory tract infections, laryngitis, and otitis media. 
Bacterial infections may develop after a viral illness such as a cold or the flu. Bacterial infections may affect the upper or lower respiratory system, and symptoms tend to localize to one area. The most common sites of bacterial infections in the upper respiratory system are the sinuses and throat. Pneumonia is the most common bacterial infection of the lower respiratory system.
As is the case with humans, the culprits to blame for these nasty colds are bacteria or viruses, sometimes both. The bacteria and viruses that most commonly cause upper respiratory infections (URIs) in cats are: 1  Feline herpesvirus type-1 (FHV-1); also known as feline viral rhinotracheitis (FVR). 2  Feline calicivirus (FVC). 3  Bordetella bronchiseptica (B. bronchiseptica). 4  Chlamydophila felis (C. 5  felis). 6  Less commonly, Mycoplasma spp. 