Content remains current as of July 2013. Employers should know how long to keep or destroy employee files and documents. Each state and federal agency has a different set of requirements, often covering the same documents so it's challenging for you to know what to keep and for how long. 
Under U.S. federal law, employers must keep the payroll records of their employees or former employees for a certain length of time. The amount of time, however, varies according to which statute you refer to, which can make knowing how long to keep employee records confusing.
For purposes of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), employers are required to keep payroll records for the same length of time required under the FLSA -- three years from the termination date. However, other employee benefit information must be retained for only one year. Employers would be wise to maintain all employee records for at least three years -- to cover all the bases of the federal rules -- and longer, if necessary, pursuant to state rules.
According to start-up resource My New Company, the IRS requires that payroll records must be permanently kept on file for employees, along with employee W-2s, 940s, 941s and company financial statements. Payroll records are not the only important employment records you will want to keep computerized. According to the IRS, the business you are in affects the type of records you need to keep for federal tax purposes..
The ADEA does not require employers to keep payroll records in any particular format, as long as the records are available when the EEOC requests them, according to the EEOC. The FLSA does not require that time clocks be used to keep track of employee hours, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. The amount of time, however, varies according to which statute you refer to, which can make knowing how long to keep employee records confusing.
Records on which wage computations are based should be retained for two years, i.e., time cards and piece work tickets, wage rate tables, work and time schedules, and records of additions to or deductions from wages. 
The ADEA, FLSA, and other statutes may require an employer to keep different portions of an employee's file for different lengths of time. For instance, while the ADEA requires payroll records to be kept for three years, it requires basic information about the employee to be kept only one year, according to the EEOC. To ensure your business meets all its recordkeeping retention requirements, consult a qualified employment law attorney. The amount of time, however, varies according to which statute you refer to, which can make knowing how long to keep employee records confusing.
The FMLA requires the retention of certain records with respect to payroll and demographic information as well as information related to the individual employee's leave of absence for three years. : OSHA requires that records of job-related injuries and illnesses be kept for five years. By Eskridge Law. Last month's bulletin addressed the need to retain various employee records. Since we received a couple e-mails asking how long these records must be kept, we thought that would be a good topic for this month's bulletins. Naturally, there is no single answer. The length of time you must keep the records depends on the type of records involved
There is no time frame for the IRS to access tax and tax records must be kept indefinitely if you do NOT file a tax return, OR you file a fraudulent tax return. You must keep records for 7 years if you file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction. You must keep all employment (payroll) tax records for at least 4 years after the date the tax becomes due or is paid, whichever is later. Click here for a detailed payroll record retention schedule.