1 1995: Sybase launches PowerDesigner, a modeling and metadata management solution, following its acquisition of PowerAMC. 2  1995 Sybase renames the main product SQL Server to its current name Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE) for version 11.5. 3  Anywhere 5 is released. 1 March 1986: Sybase enters into talks with Microsoft to license DataServer, a database product built to run on UNIX computers. 2  Those talks led to a product called Ashton-Tate/Microsoft SQL Server 1.0, which shipped in May of 1989. 3  1986: Sybase ships its first test programs.
To migrate Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE) databases to SQL Server or SQL Azure, you must connect to the Adaptive Server that contains the databases that you want to migrate. Make sure that you are connected to the Adaptive Server. In Sybase Metadata Explorer, select the check box next to the database or database schema that you want to update. Right-click Databases or the individual database or database schema, and then select Refresh from Database.
Sybase is an enterprise software and services company that produces software to manage and analyze information in relational databases. Sybase is a standalone subsidiary of SAP. 1 March 1986: Sybase enters into talks with Microsoft to license DataServer, a database product built to run on UNIX computers. 2  Those talks led to a product called Ashton-Tate/Microsoft SQL Server 1.0, which shipped in May of 1989. 3  1986: Sybase ships its first test programs.
Another low end version is the Sybase Adaptive Server Anywhere which is also called as Sybase ASA. The database engine behind the Microsoft SQL Server and Sybase SQL Server is the same-i.e. is the original name for the product we know today as Adaptive Server Enterprise. Sybase SQL Server name was changed since version 11.5 because they wanted to differentiate the product from Microsoft.
SAP SQL Anywhere is a proprietary relational database management system (RDBMS) product from SAP. SQL Anywhere was known as Sybase SQL Anywhere prior to the acquisition of Sybase by SAP. 
Metadata about the ASE databases is not automatically refreshed. The metadata in Sybase Metadata Explorer is a snapshot of the metadata when you first connected to the Adaptive Server, or the last time that you manually refreshed metadata. You can manually update metadata for a single database, a single database schema, or all databases. Make sure that you are connected to the Adaptive Server. In Sybase Metadata Explorer, select the check box next to the database or database schema that you want to update. Right-click Databases or the individual database or database schema, and then select Refresh from Database.
neo.sql Profile Answers by neo.sql Sep 10th, 2011 Sybase SQL Server is the RDBMS developed by Sybase Inc (now an SAP company) which is now called as Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise is the enterprise version and a flagship product of Sybase. is the original name for the product we know today as Adaptive Server Enterprise. Sybase SQL Server name was changed since version 11.5 because they wanted to differentiate the product from Microsoft.
1 Sybase called the database server  Sybase SQL Server 2  . 1988: Sybase, Microsoft, and Ashton-Tate port the Sybase RDBMS to the OS/2 platform. 3  Microsoft markets the new product as SQL Server. 4  The terms of the agreement give Microsoft a license to Sybase's SQL Server code. 1 March 1986: Sybase enters into talks with Microsoft to license DataServer, a database product built to run on UNIX computers. 2  Those talks led to a product called Ashton-Tate/Microsoft SQL Server 1.0, which shipped in May of 1989. 3  1986: Sybase ships its first test programs.
The original SQL Server code was developed by Sybase; in the late 1980s, Microsoft, Sybase and Ashton-Tate collaborated to produce the first version of the product, SQL Server 4.2 for OS/2. Subsequently, both Sybase and Microsoft offered SQL Server products. 