The name Brodie can be used as either a forename or a surname. The origination of the name was in Moray, Scotland. However, it is uncertain as to what the actual meaning of Brodie could be. There are a few suggestions as to what the name could mean. 
Scottish Meaning: The name Brody is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Brody is: Second son. American Meaning: The name Brody is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Brody is: Second son. Irish Meaning: The name Brody is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Brody is: From the muddy place. Surname. 
Origin of the name Brody: Transferred use of the surname meaning “from Brodie.” Brodie is a place-name believed to be derived from the Gaelic broth (a ditch). Var: Brody. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.
Meanings and history of the name Brody : | Edit. The name Brody is a little boy's name. Brody comes from Scottish origin. MEANING: Second son; Ditch. In 2011 the name Brody ranked #83 after being in the top 100 baby names for 3 consecutive years. Origin of the name Brody: Transferred use of the surname meaning “from Brodie.” Brodie is a place-name believed to be derived from the Gaelic broth (a ditch). Var: Brody. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
Early references to Brodie were written as Brochy, Brothy, Brothie, Brothu, Brode. Various meanings to the name Brodie have been advanced, but given the Brodies uncertain origin, and the varying ways Brodie has been pronounced/written, these remain but suppositions. Some of the suggestions that have been advanced as to the meaning of the name Brodie are: 1  Gaelic for a little ridge; a brow, or a precipice;  2 ditch or mire, from the old Irish word broth;  3 muddy place, from the Gaelic word brothach;
Brodie /brod-ie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used less generally as girls' name Brodie) is of Irish and Gaelic derivation, and the meaning of Brodie is ditch. Brodie is an alternate spelling of Brody (Irish, Gaelic): place name. Brydie is a common last name. Kreatif forms: Bardie, Bridie. 
Brodie can be a given name or a surname. Of Scottish origin, and a location in Moray, Scotland, its meaning is uncertain; it is not clear if Brodie, as a word, has its origins in the Gaelic or Pictish languages. In 2012 this name was the 53rd most popular boys' name in Scotland. Some of the suggestions that have been advanced as to the meaning of the name Brodie are: 1  Gaelic for a little ridge; a brow, or a precipice;  2 ditch or mire, from the old Irish word broth;  3 muddy place, from the Gaelic word brothach;
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Brodie and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Brodie and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Brodie. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Brodie, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Meanings and history of the name Brodie : | Edit. Brodie is a name of disputed meaning, and it is uncertain as to whether the name is Gaelic or Pictish in origin. It is the name of a Scottish clan that has been in recorded history from the time of Robert I of Scotland. Transferred use of the surname meaning “from Brodie.” Brodie is a place-name believed to be derived from the Gaelic broth (a ditch). Var: Brody. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.