The tibia is the large bone of the lower leg. Casts are typically used to treat tibia fractures. Recovery form a tibia fracture can take months. Doctors can take x-rays to determine the extent of a tibia fracture. The tibia is the larger of the two bones connecting the knee and ankle. A plateau fracture is a tibia fracture which occurs just below the knee, while fractures just above the ankle are known as plafond fractures. Often, the fibula, the other bone in the lower leg, is also involved in the break, because the strain on the tibia can cause the fibula to snap as well.
In human anatomy the tibia is the second largest bone next to the femur. As in other vertebrates the tibia is one of two bones in the lower leg, the other being the fibula, and is a component of the knee and ankle joints. The tibia is a part of four joints; the knee, ankle, superior and inferior tibiofibular joint. In the knee the tibia forms one of the two articulations with the femur, often referred to as the tibiofemoral components of the knee joint.
Tibia. The tibia is a large bone located in the lower front portion of the leg. The tibia is also known as the shinbone, and is the second largest bone in the body. There are two bones in the shin area: the tibia and fibula, or calf bone. The fibula is smaller and thinner than the tibia
Click to read more below. The tibia, sometimes known as the shin bone, is the larger and stronger of the two lower leg bones. It forms the knee joint with the femur and the ankle joint with the fibula and tarsus. Many powerful muscles that move the foot and lower leg are anchored to the tibia. The tibia is located in the lower leg medial to the fibula, distal to the femur and proximal to the talus of the foot.
Tibia. One of the two bones of the lower leg. Mentioned in: Osteomyelitis. the shin bone, the larger of the two bones of the lower leg; articulates above with the femur in the knee joint, below with the talus in the ankle joint, and at the outer side of its upper and lower ends with the fibula. See Figure 1.
The tibia /ˈtɪbiə/ (plural tibiae /ˈtɪbii/ or tibias), also known as the shinbone or shankbone, is the larger and stronger of the two bones in the leg below the knee in vertebrates (the other being the fibula), and it connects the knee with the ankle bones. The tibia is a part of four joints; the knee, ankle, superior and inferior tibiofibular joint. In the knee the tibia forms one of the two articulations with the femur, often referred to as the tibiofemoral components of the knee joint.
Confidence votes 90.1K. The tibia or shin bone, in human anatomy, is found medial (towards the middle) and anterior (towards the front) to the other such bone, the fibula. It is the second-longest bone in the human body, the largest being the femur. The tibia is the bone in your leg that is in between your knee and your ankle. I is located next to the fibula and is the larger of the two bones. 7 people found this useful. Edit.
Tibia (Shinbone) Shaft Fractures. The tibia, or shinbone, is the most common fractured long bone in your body. The long bones include the femur, humerus, tibia, and fibula. A tibial shaft fracture occurs along the length of the bone, below the knee and above the ankle. The lower leg is made up of two bones: the tibia and fibula. The tibia is the larger of the two bones. It supports most of your weight and is an important part of both the knee joint and ankle joint.