If dermatomyositis occurs along with polymyositis, symptoms may also include: 1  Skin rash. 2  This can be either raised and smooth or scaly. 3  It may appear on the forehead, the neck, shoulders, chest and back, forearms and lower legs, elbows and knees or the joints of the fingers, toes, wrists and ankles. Both Polymyositis and dermatomyositis have symptoms in common with sclerosis or sometimes lupus. Signs of these conditions may appear suddenly and severely or gradually and more mildly. Symptoms are more likely to be gradual in older people.
Polymyositis. Polymyositis is a disease caused by inflammation of the muscles. This occurs when white blood cells, the immune cells of inflammation, begin to invade the muscle tissue. The muscles most severely affected are typically those closest to the trunk or torso. This results in weakness that can be severe. 
Polymyositis is a disease of muscle featuring inflammation of the muscle fibers. The cause of the disease is not known. It begins when white blood cells, the immune cells of inflammation, spontaneously invade muscles. This results in weakness that can be severe. Polymyositis is a chronic illness featuring progressive muscle weakness with periods of increased symptoms, called flares or relapses, and minimal or no symptoms, known as remissions.
Polymyositis can also affect other areas of the body and is, therefore, referred to as a systemic illness. Occasionally, it is associated with cancer or with other diseases of connective tissue (such as systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, and rheumatoid arthritis). This results in weakness that can be severe. Polymyositis is a chronic illness featuring progressive muscle weakness with periods of increased symptoms, called flares or relapses, and minimal or no symptoms, known as remissions.
(July 2013). Polymyositis (PM)(inflammation of many muscles) is a type of chronic inflammation of the muscles (inflammatory myopathy) related to dermatomyositis and inclusion body myositis. Contents. 
1 Polymyositis and dermatomyositis (PM/DM) are chronic inflammatory diseases of muscle. 2  Muscle weakness is the most common symptom of PM/DM. 3  The cause of PM/DM is unknown. This results in weakness that can be severe. Polymyositis is a chronic illness featuring progressive muscle weakness with periods of increased symptoms, called flares or relapses, and minimal or no symptoms, known as remissions.
Polymyositis is a systemic connective tissue disorder characterized by inflammatory and degenerative changes in the muscles, leading to symmetric weakness and some degree of muscle atrophy. The areas principally affected are the hip, shoulders, arms, pharynx and neck. 