Symptoms. Consider the following scenario: In this scenario, the files are deleted permanently instead of being moved to the Recycle Bin. 1  You have a client computer that is running Windows 7 or Windows Server 2008 R2. 2  You redirect the Recycle Bin on the computer to a storage location in a network by using a Distributed File System (DFS) link. 1 You redirect the Recycle Bin on the computer to a storage location in a network by using a Distributed File System (DFS) link.
The INFO file is a hidden file. To delete the INFO file follow these steps: No files may appear in the Recycle Bin if the files in the Recycled folder are damaged. If this is the case, create a copy of the Recycled\ Desktop.ini file in another folder, and then delete the entire contents of the Recycled folder. Then, restore the Desktop.ini file to the Recycled folder
MORE INFORMATION. Each hard disk contains a hidden folder named Recycled. This folder contains files deleted in Windows Explorer or My Computer, or in Windows-based programs. When you delete a file, the complete path and file name is stored in a hidden file called Info or Info2 (Windows 98) in the Recycled folder. To delete the INFO file follow these steps: No files may appear in the Recycle Bin if the files in the Recycled folder are damaged. If this is the case, create a copy of the Recycled\ Desktop.ini file in another folder, and then delete the entire contents of
Files deleted from a zipped folder do not go to the Recycle Bin, they are just gone and not retrievable. If the folders you were trying to delete were from a zipped folder than this could be the explanation. Also, right click on the Recycle bin. You should see there are a few options. 
When you delete a file from the redirected folder, it will move to the recycle bin, and behave like a locally deleted file. It only seems to create the recycler folder when My Documents points to a UNC path, not a mapped drive letter. The Short Story: When we set the target folder of the My Documents shortcut to point to a network share via UNC path, deleting a file from My Documents creates a recycler folder on that share's root and the deleted files still don't appear in the Recycle Bin.
1 You have a client computer that is running Windows 7 or Windows Server 2008 R2. 2  You redirect the Recycle Bin on the computer to a storage location in a network by using a Distributed File System (DFS) link. 1 You redirect the Recycle Bin on the computer to a storage location in a network by using a Distributed File System (DFS) link.
Windows has a Recycle Bin for each drive letter, but you'll need to enable the viewing of hidden files to see this in Windows Explorer. The easiest way to find and delete it, without permanently changing your settings, is to use the command prompt. See also: Fix a corrupt Recycle Bin in Windows. Click the Start button and type cmd in the Search field. Look for cmd.exe in the search results, then right-click it and select ‘Run as Administrator'. On the assumption that C is your primary drive, type rd /s /q C:\$Recycle.bin and press Ent
You’ll see that the Recycle Bin has several characteristics that you can control. 1  You can select the size of the recycle folder on each drive that has one. 2  You can turn the Recycle Bin off completely. 3  You can control whether or not a warning confirmation is displayed when you delete a file. One thing to realize about the way Windows manages the Recycle Bin is: 1  There’s one Recycle Bin – the icon in Windows File Explorer, or the icon on your desktop. 2  It’s the user interface you use when you want to see what’s been deleted, or to undelete (restore) something.