Swollen or Tender Breasts: Swollen or tender breasts is a pregnancy symptom which may begin as early as 1-2 weeks after conception. Women may notice changes in their breasts; they may be tender to the touch, sore, or swollen. Spotting: Implantation bleeding can be one of the earliest pregnancy symptoms. About 6-12 days after conception, the embryo implants itself into the uterine wall. Some women will experience spotting as well as cramping.
Early pregnancy symptoms can sometimes happen before a missed period and before a positive pregnancy test. Especially the 3, 4, 5, and 6 weeks pregnant signs. Early pregnancy … symptoms and signs are usually related to the pregnancy hormone hCG or Human Chorionic Gonadotropin which is responsible for pregnancy signs. Answer 2 weeks at the earliest Answer Your symptoms of pregnancy will usually appear anywhere from the first week of your expected period to 1-2 weeks after your first week o … f expected period.
From as early as a week past conception, find out about how soon the signs of pregnancy begin. If you are trying to get pregnant, you might be wondering just how soon you can start seeing signs and symptoms that might give you a clue that you are, in fact, expecting. The answer may surprise you! 
Other potential early pregnancy symptoms include fatigue, headaches, lower backaches, and increased urination. You may contact the American Pregnancy Association at 1-800-672-2296 M-F 10am-6pm to discuss your concerns or ask questions about the pregnancy symptoms you may be experiencing. Spotting: Implantation bleeding can be one of the earliest pregnancy symptoms. About 6-12 days after conception, the embryo implants itself into the uterine wall. Some women will experience spotting as well as cramping.
Pregnancy symptoms at 6 weeks. For most women, morning sickness begins between 6 and 8 weeks. You may also be exhausted and experiencing mood swings, which could be due to hormonal changes as well as the stress of wondering what lies ahead in your pregnancy. About 25 percent of women have spotting in early pregnancy. The first sign of pregnancy is usually a missed period. The most common symptoms to follow are nausea, vomiting, fatigue, frequent urination, and breast tenderness and swelling. These symptoms can be mild or severe.
Classic symptoms of pregnancy. In addition to a missed period, the earliest signs and symptoms of pregnancy might include: 1  Tender, swollen breasts. 2  Early in pregnancy hormonal changes might make your breasts tender, sensitive or sore. 3  Or your breasts might feel fuller and heavier. The proof is in the pregnancy test. But even before you miss a period, you might suspect — or hope — that you're pregnant. For some women, early signs and symptoms of pregnancy begin in the first few weeks after conception.
What follows is a description of some of the most common early symptoms of pregnancy. You should know that these symptoms may be caused by other things besides being pregnant. So the fact that you notice some of these symptoms does not necessarily mean you are pregnant. 
For some women, the earliest symptoms of pregnancy appear in the first few weeks after conception. But even before you miss a period, you may suspect – or hope – that you’re pregnant. For some women, early symptoms of pregnancy begin in the first few weeks after conception. 
Every pregnancy is different.You may start having a few symptoms (i.e. breast tenderness,possibly frequent urination) as early as 2 weeks into the pregnancy or symptoms might … show up much later.Some women experience little or no symptoms at all. 1 Pregnancy symptoms usually start as soon as the embryo implants in the uterus and starts releasing HCG. 2  Which is around day 7-8 of having sex. 3  If you are very slim you will start showing at about 3 months.
Your body starts sending out hormones right away. It does take about 6 days for the egg to travel up the fallopian tubes and then implant in the uterus, but as soon as that egg is fertilized your body starts sending out hormones preparing the body for pregnancy and the uterus. So yes, you can start feeling symptoms even a day later. 