Allicin and other essential volatile compounds also found to have anti-bacterial, anti-viral, and anti-fungal activities. Garlic is an excellent source of minerals and vitamins that are essential for optimum health. It contains many flavonoid anti-oxidants like carotene beta, zea-xanthin, and vitamins like vitamin-C. Vitamin C helps the body develop resistance against infectious agents and scavenge harmful, pro-inflammatory free radicals. Garlic cloves have amazingly high levels of vitamins and minerals.
Other Vitamins. Garlic also contains lower amounts of other vitamins. These include 1 percent of the daily requirement of thiamin, also called vitamin B1; thiamin, known as vitamin B2; and pantothenic acid. Trace amounts of vitamins E and K, riboflavin and folic acid are also available in garlic. Thought of by most people as primarily a flavoring agent, garlic actually does have some nutritional value as well. According to the World's Healthiest Foods website, garlic serves as a very good source of both vitamins C and B6, and also provides trace amounts of several other essential vitamins.
Garlic is a mini-storehouse of minerals. Manganese, copper, iron, zinc, sulfur, calcium, aluminum, chlorine, and selenium are all part of the minerals contained in garlic. One hundred grams, or 3 1/2 ounces, of fresh garlic will supply the following: 1  Copper 0.30 mg. 2  Iron 1.7 mg.
Health benefits of Garlic. Strong flavored, garlic cloves contain many noteworthy phyto-nutrients, minerals, vitamins, and antioxidants that have proven health benefits. Total measured antioxidant strength (ORAC value) is 5346 µmol TE/100 g. It contains many flavonoid anti-oxidants like carotene beta, zea-xanthin, and vitamins like vitamin-C. Vitamin C helps the body develop resistance against infectious agents and scavenge harmful, pro-inflammatory free radicals. Garlic cloves have amazingly high levels of vitamins and minerals.
Confidence votes 241. No, garlic does not contain Vitamin K, however it does contain other vitamins and minerals such as manganese, Vitamin B6, Vitamin C and more. Here's a link to the complete list of nutrients garlic provides and other information about it. The chemical analysis of garlic shows garlic to have a storehouse of valuable minerals like phosphorus, sulfur, calcium, magnesium, manganese, selenium, copper and zinc, in addition to substantial amount of vitamin C and a small amount of vitamin B complex.
In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Garlic is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more. 1 The cardioprotective benefits of garlic may partly rest on the production of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) gas. 2  Our red blood cells can take sulfur-containing molecules in garlic (called polysulfides) and use them to produce H2S. 3  This H2S in turn can help our blood vessels expand and keep our blood pressure in check.
Additionally, garlic is an excellent source of manganese and vitamin B6. It is also a very good source of vitamin C and copper. In addition, garlic is a good source of selenium, phosphorus, vitamin B1, and calcium. 1 The cardioprotective benefits of garlic may partly rest on the production of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) gas. 2  Our red blood cells can take sulfur-containing molecules in garlic (called polysulfides) and use them to produce H2S. 3  This H2S in turn can help our blood vessels expand and keep our blood pressure in check.
Garlic does not contain fiber or fat. Those three garlic cloves comprise a surprising nutritional profile. For instance, they register trace levels of most B vitamins with the exception of vitamin B12. They have a vitamin C content of 2.8 mg and 16.3 mg of calcium. Manganese, copper, iron, zinc, sulfur, calcium, aluminum, chlorine, and selenium are all part of the minerals contained in garlic. One hundred grams, or 3 1/2 ounces, of fresh garlic will supply the following: 1  Copper 0.30 mg. 2  Iron 1.7 mg.
The bulbs are one of the richest sources of potassium, iron, calcium, magnesium, manganese, zinc, and selenium. Selenium is a heart-healthy mineral, and is an important cofactor for antioxidant enzymes within the body. Manganese is used by the body as a co-factor for the antioxidant enzyme, superoxide dismutase. It contains many flavonoid anti-oxidants like carotene beta, zea-xanthin, and vitamins like vitamin-C. Vitamin C helps the body develop resistance against infectious agents and scavenge harmful, pro-inflammatory free radicals. Garlic cloves have amazingly high levels of vitamins and minerals.