BUREAUCRACY. Bureaucracy Abstracts, Bureaucracy Syllabus. Bureaucracy is a formal organization with clearly defined objectives, a hierarchy of specialized roles and systematic processes of direction and administration. The terms bureaucracy, bureaucratic, and bureaucrat are common. The growth of formal bureaucracy is a phenomenon of the 19th and 20th centuries, and the modern bureaucratic state is one of mankind's recent accomplishments. For organizations in both the public and private sectors, the bureaucracy represents an important, modern technology of control
A bureaucracy is a way of administratively organizing large numbers of people who need to work together. Organizations in the public and private sector, including universities and governments, rely on bureaucracies to function. The term bureaucracy literally means “rule by desks or offices,” a definition that highlights the often impersonal character of bureaucracies.
Weber also saw unfettered bureaucracy as a threat to individual freedom, in which an increase in the bureaucratization of human life can trap individuals in an iron cage of rule-based, rational control. Today, bureaucracy is the administrative system governing any large institution. Since being coined, the word bureaucracy has developed negative connotations. Bureaucracies have been criticized as being too complex, inefficient, or too inflexible.
1 Commonly, bureaucracy connotes hierarchical structures in a negative light due to the absence of individual freedom of initiative and the overuse of delegation. 2  A (noun) bureaucrat works in a (adjective) bureaucratic organization. Usage Notes: 1  Plural: bureaucracies. 2  Commonly, bureaucracy connotes hierarchical structures in a negative light due to the absence of individual freedom of initiative and the overuse of delegation. 3  A (noun) bureaucrat works in a (adjective) bureaucratic organization.
According to the Weberian model, created by German sociologist Max Weber, a bureaucracy always displays the following characteristics: 1  Hierarchy: A bureaucracy is set up with clear chains of command so that everyone has a boss. 2  At the top of the organization is a chief who oversees the entire bureaucracy. 
bureaucracy. (noun) “[A] formal organization characterized by a hierarchy of authority, a clear division of labor, explicit rules, and impersonality ” (OpenStax College 2012). Example: The department of motor vehicles or city hall. Audio Pronunciation: (bu·reauc·ra·cy). Usage Notes: 1  Plural: bureaucracies. 2  Commonly, bureaucracy connotes hierarchical structures in a negative light due to the absence of individual freedom of initiative and the overuse of delegation. 3  A (noun) bureaucrat works in a (adjective) bureaucratic organization.
Oligarchy Weber noted the dysfunctions of bureaucracy in terms of the impact that it had on individuals. Its major advantage, efficiency in attaining goals, makes it unwieldy in dealing with individual cases. The impersonality, so important in attaining efficiency of the organization, is dehumanizing. Weber's general theory of rationalization (of which bureaucratization is but a particular case) refers to increasing human mastery over the natural and social environment. In turn, these changes in social structure have changed human character through changing values, philosophies, and beliefs.
A bureaucracy (/bjuːˈrɒkrəsi/) is a body of non-elective government officials and/or an administrative policy-making group. Historically, bureaucracy was government administration managed by departments staffed with nonelected officials. Today, bureaucracy is the administrative system governing any large institution. Since being coined, the word bureaucracy has developed negative connotations. Bureaucracies have been criticized as being too complex, inefficient, or too inflexible.