Autoimmune disease affects up to 50 million Americans, according to the American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association (AARDA) . An autoimmune disease develops when your immune system, which defends your body against disease, decides your healthy cells are foreign. As a result, your immune system attacks healthy cells. The following are some of the more common autoimmune diseases: 1  rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of joints and surrounding tissues. 2  systemic lupus erythematosus: affects skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs.
Infection, vaccines and other environmental triggers of autoimmunity. Molina V(1), Shoenfeld Y. Author information: (1)Department of Medicine B and The Center for Autoimmune Diseases, Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. The etiology of autoimmune diseases is still not clear but genetic, immunological, hormonal and environmental factors are considered to be important triggers. Most often autoimmunity is not followed by clinical symptoms unless an additional event such as an environmental factor favors an overt expression
Viruses, bacteria and mycoplasma, a type of small-cell bacteria, are implicated in autoimmune diseases. Often a bout of illness with a virus such as the Epstein-Barr virus triggers the onset of an autoimmune disease. Toxic Metal Exposure. An estimated twenty-five percent of us have some form of heavy metal poisoning. Dr. Edelson's Theory on What are the Causes of Autoimmune Disease. According to Dr. Stephen B. Edelson, one of the top autoimmune disease specialists in the United States, autoimmune diseases are caused primarily by a combination of genetics and environmental toxins.
The cause of autoimmune disease is unknown. There are many theories about what triggers autoimmune diseases, including: 1  bacteria or virus. 2  drugs. 3  chemical irritants. 4  environmental irritants. The following are some of the more common autoimmune diseases: 1  rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of joints and surrounding tissues. 2  systemic lupus erythematosus: affects skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs.
Immune system disorders cause abnormally low activity or over activity of the immune system. In cases of immune system over activity, the body attacks and damages its own tissues (autoimmune diseases). Immune deficiency diseases decrease the body's ability to fight invaders, causing vulnerability to infections.
1 Trigger suspects: the possible suspects for what triggers the start of an autoimmune disease are many, but include: viruses, bacteria, diet, toxins, radiation, chronic infections, and so on. 2  Risk factors: genetics (significant but not total), immune system abnormalities. 1 Parasites: These are very rarely regarded as an autoimmune disease trigger. 2  However, there are a few rare examples of a relationship between an AI disease and a parasite: 3  Chagas' heart disease and Trypanosoma cruzi. 4  SLE / Sjogren's syndrome and the Ochocerca volvulus nematode.
There are several suspects in the search for triggers. In fact, there is quite a lot of evidence for several types of triggers, so it seems there may be multiple triggers for autoimmune diseases. Some of the suspects include: Viruses: These are probably the most studied candidate for autoimmune diseases. However, results have been somewhat unconvincing. 
Many environmental factors are known to affect the immune system and may play a role as triggers of the autoimmune mosaic.Infections: bacterial, viral and parasitic infections are known to induce and exacerbate autoimmune diseases, mainly by the mechanism of molecular mimicry. The etiology of autoimmune diseases is still not clear but genetic, immunological, hormonal and environmental factors are considered to be important triggers. Most often autoimmunity is not followed by clinical symptoms unless an additional event such as an environmental factor favors an overt expression