ANZAC (Australian and New Zealand Army Corps) Day is the anniversary of the landing of troops from Australia and New Zealand on the Gallipoli Peninsula, Turkey, in World War I on April 25, 1915. ANZAC Day is also a public holiday and day of remembrance in New Zealand, the Cook Islands, Niue, Samoa and Tonga. It is also commemorated with special services and events on or around April 25 in a range of countries across the globe.
In 1916, Anzac Day was held on 25 April for the first time. It was marked by a wide variety of ceremonies and services in Australia, a march through London, and a sports day in the Australian camp in Egypt. During the 1920s Anzac Day became established as a national day of commemoration for the more than 60,000 Australians who had died during the war. In 1927, for the first time, every state observed some form of public holiday on Anzac Day.
Observed on 25 April each year, Anzac Day was originally to honour the members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who fought at Gallipoli against the Ottoman Empire during World War I. Anzac Day was first commemorated at the Australian War Memorial in 1942, but, due to government orders preventing large public gatherings in case of Japanese air attack, it was a small affair and was neither a march nor a memorial service.
Wreaths of red Flanders poppies are traditionally placed at memorials on ANZAC Day. On 25 April every year, Australians commemorate ANZAC Day. It commemorates the landing of Australian and New Zealand troops at Gallipoli on 25 April 1915. The date, 25 April, was officially named ANZAC Day in 1916. ANZAC stands for Australian and New Zealand Army Corps. 1 April 25, ANZAC Day, was the day the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps landed on the Gallipoli Peninsula in 1915. 2  The ANZACs were on the Gallipoli Peninsula for only 8 months, around 8,000 of them died there. 3  The ANZACs were all volunteers.
The original ANZAC landing at Gallipoli occurred on 25 April 1915. From 1916 onwards, in both Australia and New Zealand, ANZAC services were held on or about April 25, mainly organised by returned servicemen and school children in cooperation with local authorities. 25 April 1916 was the first unofficial ANZAC day. From 1916 onwards, in both Australia and New Zealand, A … 
Anzac Day. Anzac Day is a very special day both in Australia and New Zealand. The anniversary of the Anzac day is probably Australia\'s most important national occasion. It marks the anniversary of the first major military action fought by New Zealand and Australian forces during the First World War.
Beginnings of the memorial day ANZAC Day - 25 April-is probably Australia's most important national occasion. It marks the anniversary of the first major military action fought by Australian and New Zealand forces during the First World War. ANZAC stands for Australian and New Zealand Army Corps. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Australia and New Zealand commemorate the ANZAC Day public holiday on 25 April every year to honour the bravery and sacrifice of the members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC), and of all those who served their country.
Anzac Day was first commemorated at the Memorial in 1942. At the time, government orders prohibited large public gatherings in case of a Japanese air attack, so it was a small occasion with neither a march nor a memorial service. Since then, Anzac Day has been commemorated at the Memorial every year. During the 1920s Anzac Day became established as a national day of commemoration for the more than 60,000 Australians who had died during the war. In 1927, for the first time, every state observed some form of public holiday on Anzac Day.