The mediastinum is the middle section of the chest cavity. The chest cavity contains the left and right lungs, which lie on either side of the heart. The heart is contained in the portion of the chest known as the mediastinum. 
Position and Shape of the Heart. The heart is located in the thoracic cavity in between the lungs, 60% of it lying to the left of the median plane. The heart’s lateral projection extends from rib 3 to 6. Most of the heart’s surface is covered by the lungs and in juveniles it is bordered cranially by the thymus. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Odd name not to be able to locate the heart. The heart is located in the thoracic cavity, in the portion of the chest known as the mediastenum-the region between the pleural sacs and containing all the thoracic viscera except the lungs. The pericardium is the thin sac or membrane which contains the heart and the roots of the great blood vessels. The heart is located in the middle mediastinum(cavity).The heart is surrounded by the pericardium(tissue layer).You can have a friendly Gross Anatomy e-manual below.. Source(s): http://viralurl.com/hamid/grossanatomy. hamid · 7 years ago.
The space in the thoracic cavity between the concave inner surfaces of the lungs, in which (in a special pericardial cavity) the heart is located, is called the mediastinum. The thoracic cavity is lined with a serous membrane called the pleura. 
Confidence votes 16.6K. The heart is in the thoracic cavity in a part called the mediastinum. It is protected by the pericardium, a membranous sac that surround the heart. The mediastinum is that space in the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart. It also contains the aorta, esophagus, trachea and thymus. The pleural cavity is the space in the chest between the lungs. The thoracic cavity consists of the lungs, heart, liver, stomach and other important squishy organs. the ribcage stops these organs getting damaged if you fall over, for examp … le, which is why the heart's in the thoracic cavity.
The heart is surrounded by the pericardial cavity. The relationship between the heart and the cavity resembles that of a fist pushing into a balloon (Figure 1-11b). The wrist corresponds to the base (attached portion) of the heart, and the balloon corresponds to the serous membrane that lines the pericardial cavity. The pericardium lies within the mediastinum, the portion of the thoracic cavity between the left and right pleural cavities (Figure 1-11d). The connective tissue of the mediastinum surrounds the pericardial cavity and heart, the large arteries and veins attached to the heart, and the thymus, trachea, and esophagus.
The thoracic cavity is the more superior subdivision of the anterior cavity, and it is enclosed by the rib cage. The thoracic cavity contains the lungs and the heart, which is located in the mediastinum. The diaphragm forms the floor of the thoracic cavity and separates it from the more inferior abdominopelvic cavity. 1 The superior mediastinum is a wedge-shaped cavity located between the superior regions of the two thoracic cavities. 2  The pericardial cavity within the mediastinum is located at the center of the chest below the superior mediastinum. 3  The pericardial cavity roughly outlines the shape of the heart
Answer: -Located in the thoracic cavity and it is medial to the lungs, anterior to the vertebral column & posterior to the sternum. -Hearts distal end extends downward & to the left. -Size of an average adult heart is 14cm long & 9 cm wide. -described as a hollow muscular pump.
Heart is located safely inside the chest cavity which looks like a cage bound by the ribs and breast bone (sternum). The chest cavity is also called as thoracic cavity and it lies between neck and abdomen. Heart lies slightly to the left in the chest cavity. [ 2 ]. Heart is located in a space in the centre of the chest cavity called mediastinum in particular theMiddle mediastinum. It is the space between the 2 lungs and the heart is wedged between them. [ 3 ]. The mediastinum is divided into. 1  Superior