For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready. Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet.
The Basics of Cooking Fish. Cooking fish can be as simple as turning on your oven and baking it for a few minutes until tender. Whether you want to know how to cook fish fillets, fish steaks, or dressed whole fish, our easy tips for baking fish will help you prepare and cook any fish recipe. 1. 1. How to prep the fish. 1  If fish is frozen, allow enough time for it to thaw, covered, in the refrigerator. 2  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or steaks or 350 degrees F for dressed fish.
1 Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or steaks or 350 degrees F for dressed fish. 2  For fillets with skin, if desired, use a sharp fillet knife to remove the skin from the raw fish. 3  You can also remove the skin after baking. 1. How to prep the fish. 1  If fish is frozen, allow enough time for it to thaw, covered, in the refrigerator. 2 
Best Answer: depends on the fish but if it's a small fish, not like tuna or shark, i'd cook it for about 20 minutes. i've always done orange ruffy in foil, too with lemon and olive oil and 20 minutes usually is all it needs, 30 if bigger pieces. I think rule of thumb is 5-10 min per inch thickness or until fish flakes easily with a fork The other is that color should turn from opaque to white or pink (salmon). I Like fish on the grill. You can still do the foil thing turning once or use a fish basket also turning once.
Frozen fish can be baked without thawing; just increase the time to 20 minutes for each inch of thickness. After you remove the fish from the oven, let it stand for three or four minutes to complete cooking. If cooking a 1-inch-thick fish steak, bake it five minutes per side. However, if the fish is a half-inch or less, it does not need to be turned and can be cooked on one side. When cooking without a recipe, the Washington State Health Department advises that an easy rule of thumb to follow is to bake fresh fish in a preheated 400 degrees Fahrenheit oven 1
5. Broil the tilapia fillets for 4 to 6 minutes, flipping once. Place the pan on the top rack of the oven, no further than 4 inches (10 cm) from the top heating element. At the 2 or 3 minute mark, flip the fillets and continue broiling. 1  Use a fish spatula or other flat, heat-resistant spatula to turn the fish. 1 It is best to use butter for this recipe since it will help the fish brown inside the oven. 2  For a stronger lemon flavor, you could up the amount of lemon juice to 3 or 4 Tbsp (45 or 60 ml).
1 For fillets or steaks, use a ruler to measure the thickness of the fish before cooking, then bake, uncovered, in the preheated 450 degrees F oven for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness of fish. 1. How to prep the fish. 1  If fish is frozen, allow enough time for it to thaw, covered, in the refrigerator. 2  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or steaks or 350 degrees F for dressed fish.
Not sure how long you should cook a piece of fish? Try the 10-minute rule of thumb, which says you should measure the fish at its thickest point and cook it for 10 minutes per inch, turning halfway through the cooking time. If the fish is under 1/2 inch thick, you don't need to turn it over. This 10-Minute Rule is also known as the Canadian Cooking Method and is appropriate for most conventional cooking methods, according to Orca Bay Seafoods.
1 Pan-dressed fish is a dressed fish with the head and tail removed. 2  Weigh a dressed or pan-dressed fish before cooking, then bake, uncovered, in a preheated 350 degrees F oven for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces. 1. How to prep the fish. 1  If fish is frozen, allow enough time for it to thaw, covered, in the refrigerator. 2  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or steaks or 350 degrees F for dressed fish.
Preheat oven to 425°. Place fish in an 11 x 7-inch baking dish coated with cooking spray. Combine lime juice, mayonnaise, onion powder, and pepper in a small bowl, and spread over fish. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs; drizzle with butter. Bake at 425° for 20 minutes or until fish flakes easily when tested with a fork.