Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A pullet (young female) starts laying at about 20-24 weeks old. Her first eggs will be small. A hen will lay about 20 dozen (240) eggs in the first year and probably no more than 1000 in her lifetime. When she is molting (losing feathers for new ones) she will lay little or no eggs. 
On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 
Rhode Island Red Pullet (about 18 weeks old). Rhode Island Red Hen (about 22 weeks old). Unfortunately, there’s no hard and fast rule about how long it will take for your chickens to begin laying eggs, but we’ve found that the general rule of thumb of 16-24 weeks is true. One of the first questions every backyard chicken owner wants to know is when will my chickens start laying eggs? The general rule is sometime between 4 and 6 months of age (16-24 weeks). We got our first batch of day old chicks on July 6th.
When Pullets Start to Lay Eggs. Summer has arrived and your spring chicks will be approaching puberty. Assuming they’ve enjoyed good food and care, the young hens, called pullets, begin laying sometime between their 16th and 24th week of age. You can anticipate the arrival of eggs soon! Discovering a hen’s first egg from your own hand-raised chicks is a thrill. Pullet eggs are tiny and look like gems in the nest. If your pullets are over 16 weeks of age, now is the time to switch them to a Nutrena® layer feed, as laying hens need special nutrition. Producing eggs places great nutritional strain on a hen’s body. 
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
Introduction. The age at which your hens will begin to lay depends on their breed type. Hybrids are the earliest birds to start laying, starting about 1 month earlier than non-hybrids. Non-hybrids, which include our rare and heritage breeds, typically begin laying about one month later than hybrids. 
Becky answers a question from a viewer like you about what age chickens start laying eggs. How old do my chickens need to be to start laying eggs is a question we get a lot. Becky also talks about molting chickens and eggs with soft shells. 
Laying Hens. Hens typically start laying eggs around 5 months of age. Some hens have laid as early as 4 months, and one of my hens didn’t start until she was 6 months old. The fun thing is that your hens will start giving you hints that an egg is coming. 
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity.
First Molt. When laying hens are around 18 months old, they begin their first molt. This is the process where chickens lose a lot of their feathers, then grow new ones. Molting requires the consumption of extra calories and protein and may take 3 1/2 months or more. 