Apply For A Florida Marriage License. Marriage licenses are issued by the county and you can apply for your license at any County Clerk’s office in the state. You do not need to apply for the license in the county where the marriage will take place as the license is good throughout the state once it is issued
1 You can become a notary public in Florida online. 2  A marriage license issued in Florida is only valid in Florida. 3  You may use your Florida marriage license in any Florida county. 4  You do not have to get married in the county of issuance, but you do need to get married within the state. 1 A Florida marriage license costs a set amount ($93.50 as of February 2015), but you may be able to get a discount if you can show proof of taking a pre-marital counseling class. 2  Classes are offered through the county court system or through state-sanctioned providers, generally in a four-hour set of lessons.
The Florida notary may perform a marriage ceremony providing the couple first obtain a marriage license from an authorized Florida official and may only perform such ceremony within the geographical boundaries of Florida. Thus, a Florida notary could not perform a marriage ceremony in another state. Additionally, a notary from another state, including South Carolina and Maine, could not perform a marriage ceremony in Florida. And, a Florida notary may not marry a couple who has obtained a marriage license from another state. There are many factors which determine the validity of a marriage.
Marriage licenses are required in every state. A marriage license is provided as proof that a couple is legally allowed to be married in the state that they wish to be married. In general, couples must provide documentation as proof of facts listed on their marriage. The requirements for couples seeking a marriage license will be different in every state. However, each state requires legal proof of facts provided in a marriage license application. Many states require that couples utilize original birth certificates as proof of legal name and age.
We appreciate your patience. Couples wishing to get married in Florida may apply for a license at any Clerk & Comptroller location throughout Palm Beach County. Marriage licenses are issued through the Clerk's Circuit Civil department. The license is valid in any Florida county for a period of 60 days. 
1 If you live in, for example, Georgia but want to have a wedding ceremony in Florida, you need to get your marriage license in Georgia and have a Georgia officiant perform the legal marriage process. 2  Then you can hold your wedding ceremony in Florida. 1 A Florida marriage license costs a set amount ($93.50 as of February 2015), but you may be able to get a discount if you can show proof of taking a pre-marital counseling class. 2  Classes are offered through the county court system or through state-sanctioned providers, generally in a four-hour set of lessons.
Best Answer: No you have to get the license in the state you get married in. Check with Washington laws. not all states have a 3 day waiting process. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: No you have to get the license in the state you get married in. Check with Washington laws. not all states have a 3 day waiting process. I was married in Hawaii 24 years ago and was able to get ny license through the mail.
Florida Marriage License. Every marriage license is issued by a county court judge or clerk of the circuit court under his or her hand and seal. Marriage licenses are issued by counties and you can apply for your license at any county clerk's. Click Here for Clerk of the Court contact information by county. You can get married in any county in Florida, regardless of where you obtained your marriage l
Marriage Licenses. Requirements If either party is a resident of Georgia, they can apply for a marriage license in any county in the State of Georgia. If neither party is a resident of Georgia, they will have to apply in the county they are going to get married in. The license allows for the marriage ceremony to take place in this State. You cannot use a Georgia license to marry in another state. However, an out of state person authorized to perform ceremonies, can use the license if the ceremony is performed in the State of Georgia. All applicants for a marriage license must be at least 16 years old.