They generally have cell walls, like plant and fungal cells, but bacterial cell walls are normally made out of peptidoglycan instead of cellulose (as in plants) or chitin (as in fungi), and are not homologous with eukaryotic cell walls. A fungus is generally a parasite, more like a virus. A bacteria is and infectious germ. A parasite lives on and thrives from another entity, like a body. A bactria lives and and thrives on the food carried by cells of another body.
Introduction. Microbiology is the study of microorganisms, which are unicellular or multi-cellular organisms. This includes eukaryotes such as fungi, and prokaryotes such as bacteria and certain algae. Viruses, though not strictly classed as living organisms, are also studied. Microbiology is a broad term which includes virology, mycology, parasitology and other branches. 
Fungi Vs. Plants Fungi have a mutually symbiotic relationship. This means that it is a bacteria working with a plant and they both get benefits. It has developed so that they are classified as one being, even though they are two separate life forms.
Fungi absorb their food while animals ingest it, and their cells have cell walls. For these reasons, these organisms are placed in their own kingdom, Fungi. The Fungi are a monophyletic group, meaning all varieties of fungi come from a common ancestor. A fungus is generally a parasite, more like a virus. A bacteria is and infectious germ. A parasite lives on and thrives from another entity, like a body. A bactria lives and and thrives on the food carried by cells of another body.
1 With plants: Fungi have a cell wall and vacuoles. 2  They reproduce by both sexual and asexual means, and like basal plant groups (such as ferns and mosses) produce spores. 3  Similar to mosses and algae, fungi typically have haploid nuclei. Sexual reproduction in basidiomycetes is similar to that of the ascomycetes. Compatible haploid hyphae fuse to produce a dikaryotic mycelium. However, the dikaryotic phase is more extensive in the basidiomycetes, often also present in the vegetatively growing mycelium.
Fungi as a group have special external enzymes they use to decompose things. A good deal of bacteria do decompose, but many are primary producers. (Such as cyanobacteria. b. Yes, all bacteria are single-celled, but saying 'most' fungi are not is kind of weird. Fungi are decomposers, but bacteria are not. b. Bacteria are single-celled organisms, but most fungi are not. c. Only fungi have cell walls, but bacteria do not. d. Fungus only grow in moist locations, bacteria do not.
Best Answer: FUNGI A fungus (plural fungi) is a eukaryotic organism that digests its food externally and absorbs the nutrient molecules into its cells. Along with bacteria, fungi are the primary decomposers of dead organic matter in most terrestrial ecosystems. A fungus is generally a parasite, more like a virus. A bacteria is and infectious germ. A parasite lives on and thrives from another entity, like a body. A bactria lives and and thrives on the food carried by cells of another body.
The Fungi are a group of eukaryotic, non-phototrophic organisms with rigid cell walls. This includes mushrooms, molds and yeasts. Many fungi are saprophytes, getting nutrients by absorbing them from dead, decaying plant material. Still, other fungi are parasitic, stealing resources from a host organism. Many fungi reproduce by releasing spores.
Unlike true fungi, the water molds and slime molds do not have cell walls made of chitin. In the 5-kingdom system, they are currently placed in kingdom Protista. Fungi may be single-celled or multicellular. Multicellular fungi are composed of networks of long hollow tubes called hyphae. A fungus is generally a parasite, more like a virus. A bacteria is and infectious germ. A parasite lives on and thrives from another entity, like a body. A bactria lives and and thrives on the food carried by cells of another body.