BREAKING DOWN 'Dollar-Cost Averaging-DCA'. Eventually, the average cost per share of the security will become smaller and smaller. Dollar-cost averaging lessens the risk of investing a large amount in a single investment at the wrong time. For example, you decide to purchase $100 worth of XYZ each month for three months. DEFINITION of 'Dollar-Cost Averaging-DCA'. The technique of buying a fixed dollar amount of a particular investment on a regular schedule, regardless of the share price. More shares are purchased when prices are low, and fewer shares are bought when prices are high
Dollar-cost averaging is simply a method of purchasing shares of a mutual fund on a monthly basis. The same dollar amount is used each month to purchase fund shares month in and month out for typically a long period of time, such as from one to ten years. A regular purchase of shares of stock or other securities will typically require the investor to decide the number of shares to be purchased and then place an actual trade, while dollar-cost averaging is the investing equivalent of “auto pilot”. See also the 7 Questions to Ask When Buying a Mutual Funds.
There's a neat little investment trick designed to limit your risk if you want to put a big chunk of money into a single stock. It's called dollar cost averaging. Here's an explainer. 
The usual disclaimer applies. 2 EXPLAINING THE RIDDLE OF DOLLAR COST AVERAGING Dollar cost averaging (DCA) is the practice of building up investments gradually over time in equal dollar amounts, rather than investing the desired total in one lump sum. However, there is a much more general issue here: the average purchase cost for DCA investors gives greater weight to periods when the price is relatively low, so price fluctuations will always mean that DCA investors buy at less than the average price, regardless of the particular path taken by prices.
March 27, 2006 | Comments (0). Dollar-cost averaging can be a good way to protect yourself from a volatile market. It's the practice of accumulating shares in a stock over time by investing a certain dollar amount regularly, through up and down periods. And if you're dollar-cost averaging by the book, you shouldn't be second-guessing the market, deciding to skip an installment because the stock is up or down. It's meant to be a methodical system. Take some time to learn more about Drips. Learn more in these articles, too:
The Appeal of Dollar-Cost Averaging. Dollar-cost averaging is popular with investors for two reasons. In addition to the long-term convenience described above, it also usually lowers the average overall cost of the shares that are purchased and thereby improves the rate of return for investors. A regular purchase of shares of stock or other securities will typically require the investor to decide the number of shares to be purchased and then place an actual trade, while dollar-cost averaging is the investing equivalent of “auto pilot”. See also the 7 Questions to Ask When Buying a Mutual Funds.
Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1473046 1 EXPLAINING THE RIDDLE OF DOLLAR COST AVERAGING Abstract: Dollar cost averaging (DCA) remains a very popular investment strategy, even though previous academic research has long shown that in normal circumstances it is mean-variance inefficient. The usual disclaimer applies. Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1473046 2 EXPLAINING THE RIDDLE OF DOLLAR COST AVERAGING Dollar cost averaging (DCA) is the practice of building up investments gradually over time in equal dollar amounts, rather than investing the desired total in one lump sum.