Assuming you will simply roast the meat with salt & pepper or a rub.....and @ a temperature of 200-250* to medium-rare or medium temperature: Be sure to take your roast out of the refrigerator 1-2 hours before roasting to bring the roast closer to room temperature. 
1 Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 2  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 3  Generously salt& pepper the roast on all sides. 4  Cover the bottom of a roasting pan with olive oil& set on medium-high heat about 4 minutes until very hot. 1 Place roast in the refrigerator a couple of days ahead of time. 2  Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 3  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 4  Generously salt& pepper the roast on all sides
Directions. 1  Place roast in the refrigerator a couple of days ahead of time. 2  Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 3  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 4  Generously salt& pepper the roast on all sides. 1 Place roast in the refrigerator a couple of days ahead of time. 2  Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 3  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel.
How to make Rotisserie Sirloin Tip Roast: 1  Coat the sirloin tip roast moderately with onion powder and garlic powder and salt. 2  After 24 hours, remove from refrigerator and bring the meat to room temperature. 3  Place in rotisserie for 20 minutes per round. How to make Rotisserie Sirloin Tip Roast: 1  Coat the sirloin tip roast moderately with onion powder and garlic powder and salt. 2  Refrigerate the mixture for 24 hours. 3  After 24 hours, remove from refrigerator and bring the meat to room temperature
Rotisserie roast or cook by indirect heat on the barbecue. For Top Sirloin or Prime Rib Rotisserie Roasts, simply season or marinate for 2 to 4 hours before cooking. For all other Rotisserie Roasts, marinate for 12 to 24 hours before cooking to improve tenderness. To marinate: Pierce roast numerous times with long fork. Place in sealable freezer bag with 2 cups (500 mL) teriyaki sauce or Italian dressing; refrigerate. 1  Place drip pan under grill; add 1/2 inch (1 cm) water to pan.
1 Coat the sirloin tip roast moderately with onion powder and garlic powder and salt. 2  Refrigerate the mixture for 24 hours. 3  After 24 hours, remove from refrigerator and bring the meat to room temperature. 4  Place in rotisserie for 20 minutes per round. How to make Rotisserie Sirloin Tip Roast: 1  Coat the sirloin tip roast moderately with onion powder and garlic powder and salt. 2  Refrigerate the mixture for 24 hours. 3  After 24 hours, remove from refrigerator and bring the meat to room temperature
Lawry's season salt (or season all). On a thawed sirloin tip roast moderately coat both sides with onion powder, garlic powder, and Season-All (or Lawry's season salt). Place in the refrigerator for 24 hours. After 24 hours, remove from the refrigerator and bring meat up to room temperature (30-45 minutess
Rub the roast all over with the olive oil. Season the roast with the pepper, salt and rosemary. Step 5: Install the rotisserie spit and meat in the bbq according to the manufacturers instructions. Ensure the pan is placed under the roast and is 1/2 full of water. Turn on the rotisserie and make sure the roast rotates freely during cooking. Close the lid. Step 6: After 45 minutes insert a meat thermometer in the meat and check for temperature. Remove it when the internal temperature reaches 125F for medium-rare. Refrigerate covered at least 4 hours or up to overnight. Step 3: Insert the rotisserie spit or skewer through the beef and secure the prongs at each end in the meat. Shown here is actually two sirloin roasts I picked up on sale installed on the rotisserie spit end to end. Step 4: Preheat the grill to 350F to 375F.