Not all villages in the Cinque Terre are right on the water. Four of the five Cinque Terre towns tumble down the cliffs right into the water, with local fishing boats anchored a few feet from the rocks that make up the base of each town. But one of the towns is nowhere near the water. Anchovies are a common menu item in the Cinque Terre. Tourism is the #1 industry in the Cinque Terre these days, but there’s still plenty of fishing going on off the coast – and much of what the local fisherman catch ends up on dinner plates throughout the region every day.
The Cinque Terre is a batch of five villages off of Italy and it is also a coast off of the Italian Rivera. The five villages making up the Cinque Terre are the Monterosso al … Mare, Vernazza,Cornigalia,Manarola, and Riomaggiore. Username: Yourspam. 
Cinque Terre Monterosso al Mare Vernazza Corniglia Manarola Riomaggiore. The Cinque Terre (. [ˈtʃiŋkwe ˈtɛrre]) is a rugged portion of coast on the Italian Riviera. It is in the Liguria region of Italy, to the west of the city of La Spezia. The Five Lands comprises five villages: Monterosso al Mare, Vernazza, Corniglia, Manarola, and Riomaggiore. The coastline, the five villages, and the surrounding hillsides are all part of the Cinque Terre National Park and is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Over the centuries, people have carefully built terraces on the rugged, steep landscape right up to the cliffs that overlook the sea.
Cin·que Ter·re. A group of five villages (Monterosso, Vernazza, Corniglia, Manarola, Riomaggiore) of northwest Italy on the Ligurian Sea southeast of Genoa. Built into the sheer rocky coast, they are famed for their rugged scenery. 
The Cinque Terre trails between villages are a national park. Hiking in the Cinque Terre is one of the biggest draws to the region itself, and it has been for many years. More recently, however, the trails that link the five towns have become a national park. Anchovies are a common menu item in the Cinque Terre. Tourism is the #1 industry in the Cinque Terre these days, but there’s still plenty of fishing going on off the coast – and much of what the local fisherman catch ends up on dinner plates throughout the region every day.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Answers Publisher. Confidence votes 262K. The Cinque Terre is a batch of five villages off of Italy and it is also a coast off of the Italian Rivera. The five villages making up the Cinque Terre are the Monterosso al Mare, Vernazza,Cornigalia,Manarola, and Riomaggiore. 
The word “cinque” means five in Italian, and “terra” in the singular is land or earth. “Terre” is just the plural form of “terra.” So “Cinque Terre” is “five lands,” referring to the five towns that make up this area collectively. Anchovies are a common menu item in the Cinque Terre. Tourism is the #1 industry in the Cinque Terre these days, but there’s still plenty of fishing going on off the coast – and much of what the local fisherman catch ends up on dinner plates throughout the region every day.
Cinque Terre Villages. The Cinque Terre, are five small villages on the Costa Ligure of Levante. The villages from north to south are: Monterosso al Mare, Vernazza, Corniglia, Manarola, and Riomaggiore. Since 1926, the Cinque Terre towns have been part of the province of La Spezia. This territory was long isolated and the characteristic Ligurian culture has been conserved. The five villages of the Cinque Terre plus the town of Levanto give you many excursion possibilities. To explore further south to Portovenere, you will need a car. The train does not go there.
The Cinque Terre area is a very popular tourist destination. The villages of the Cinque Terre were severely affected by torrential rains which caused floods and mudslides on October 25, 2011. The coastline, the five villages, and the surrounding hillsides are all part of the Cinque Terre National Park and is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Over the centuries, people have carefully built terraces on the rugged, steep landscape right up to the cliffs that overlook the sea.
Cinque Terre, which means Five Lands, comprise the five small coastal villages of Riomaggiore, Manarola, Corniglia, Vernazza and Monterosso located in the Italian region of Liguria. They are listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. 