The axillary lymph nodes are a group of twenty to thirty large lymph nodes located in the deep tissues in and around the armpit. These nodes are arranged into five distinct groups: pectoral (anterior), lateral, subscapular (posterior), central (intermediate), and subclavicular (medial).... The axillary nodes are a group of lymph nodes located in the axillary (or armpit) region of the body. They perform the vital function of filtration and conduction of lymph from the upper limbs, pectoral region, and upper back
Save as Favorite. There are three levels of axillary lymph nodes (the nodes in the underarm or axilla area): 1  Level I is the bottom level, below the lower edge of the pectoralis minor muscle. 2  Level II is lying underneath the pectoralis minor muscle. 3  Level III is above the pectoralis minor muscle. 
Click to read more below. The axillary nodes are a group of lymph nodes located in the axillary (or armpit) region of the body. They perform the vital function of filtration and conduction of lymph from the upper limbs, pectoral region, and upper back
These lymph nodes are clinically significant in breast cancer, and metastases from the breast to the axillary lymph nodes are considered in the staging of the disease. If cancer cells are found in the nodes it increases the risk of metastatic breast cancer. Another method of determining breast cancer spread is to perform an endoscopic axillary sentinel node biopsy. This involves injecting a dye into the breast lump and seeing which node it first spread to (the sentinel node).
The axillary (arm pit) lymph nodes filter and/or trap lymph from the arm, chest wall and breast. It is often difficult to feel normal axillary lymph nodes. Not all enlarged axillary lymph nodes feel the same. It is also important to mention that enlarged axillary lymph nodes are not necessarily a sign of cancer. 
Axillary lymph nodes are those that are located in the arm pit, also called the axilla. The lymphatic system is the complement to the circulatory system, and the nodes are where lymph fluid collects and is filtered as it moves toward the point where it re-enters the bloodstream. 
Our bodies have a network of lymph vessels and lymph nodes. (Lymph is pronounced limf.) This network is a part of the body’s immune system. It collects fluid, waste material, and other things (like viruses and bacteria) that are in the body tissues, outside the bloodstream. Lymph nodes and what they do. Lymph vessels route lymph fluid through nodes throughout the body. Lymph nodes are small structures that work as filters for harmful substances. They contain immune cells that can help fight infection by attacking and destroying germs that are carried in through the lymph fluid.
Lymph nodes are small clumps of immune cells that act as filters for the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system runs throughout the body (like the circulatory (blood) system) and carries fluid and cells. The lymph nodes in the underarm (the axillary lymph nodes) are the first place breast cancer is likely to spread. Figure 4.4 shows the location of the axillary lymph nodes. 
1 Glands in the armpit (axillary lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection to the arm or hand. 2  A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 3  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands throughout the body. They are part of the lymph system, which carries fluid (lymph fluid), nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream.