The volcano Pokemon Entei is ready to erupt...the aurora Pokemon Suicune shines a light on every game...and where there’s thunder, there's Raikou! Every Pokemon trading card game collector's tin adds a different kind of fun to your collection and your strategies with lots of awesome cards. Every tin is a trainer's best friend. 
4. Make a list of all the cards you have (again, by their set). You'll notice that some cards have stars in the bottom right-hand corners, some have diamonds, and some have circles. 1  Once your cards are organized by number, you'll see the stars first, the diamonds next, and the circles last. 1 Do your research on your cards before you sell them! 2  In addition to rarity, you should check to see whether it is first edition, second edition, or unlimited (in older cards). 3  And do research on shadowless cards.
Sell us Your Pokemon Pokémon. Cards, honestly this is the link to sell us your. Cards if you-e mail us asking how can you sell us your, cards this is where we will point. You unless you have a really big, collection or'don t know anything about the cards at, all then click the. button Honestly, this is the link to sell us your cards. If you e-mail us asking how can you sell us your cards, this is where we will point you. Unless you have a really big collection, or don't know anything about the cards at all, then click the button. If you do have a big collection then the first thing we are going to want is pictures.
You may want to sell Pokemon cards as a hobby or business, or you may want to sell cards you no longer use. Where you choose to sell your Pokemon cards depends on the cards you have, how much you expect to sell them for and how much effort you want to put into selling them. Instructions. Research the cards you have on a website such as Find Magic Cards to get an idea of what they’re worth and whether you might want to sell them individually or in lots (see Resources). Choose Pokemon from the drop-down menu, then type the name of the Pokemon character in the search box.
Buying prices-Pokemon Cards. Here you will find listings for the Pokemon Cards that we are currently buying and the prices we are paying for them. We purchase most Pokemon Cards in bulk for the following prices: - HOLOS $0.25 each (these are Star Holos-Non-Reverse). - REVERSE HOLOS $0.08 each (these are all Circle, Diamond & Star Holos). - COMMONS/UNCOMMONS $0.04 each (these are the Circle & Diamond cards). - ENERGY CARDS $0.01 each. Requirements to sell us Pokemon Cards: - Must be in Mint (or like new) condition. This is very important & means that the cards should be like new as if they came directly out the packs.
Decide if you want to sell the Pokemon cards in person or online. Selling cards in person can be simpler but may limit your market. You may also get a higher price for your cards online than you would at a store or garage sale. Call local game stores that purchase Pokemon cards. Find out what types of cards they buy, what the process is, what their hours are and whether they offer cash or store credit. Decide what type of website you want to sell your Pokemon cards through, if you want to sell them online. Instructions. Research the cards you have on a website such as Find Magic Cards to get an idea of what they’re worth and whether you might want to sell them individually or in lots (see Resources). Choose Pokemon from the drop-down menu, then type the name of the Pokemon character in the search box.
Im from India and they sell fake pokemon cards so dont buy.. i have buy 4 noble victries packs i got rashiram full art in all 4 packs which are not from this set.....and if u … are a big pokemon cards come to my house and trade...I HaVE MaNY aWSOME CaRDS. 1 person found this useful. Answered. In Toys. I work with ToyWiz.com, and we do sell only real, mint condition cards. We're based in Nanuet, NY, and we've been selling trading cards, toys and collectibles for 20 years!
Ask Pokemon pokémon players or. Collectors'it s often difficult to find a price, online especially for-extra rare cards that do not trade hands. Often search for A pokemon pokémon trading card game, forum online and post a picture or description of your card. For advice you could also look for a hobby or gaming store in. your area 4. Sell low-value cards in bulk. Any card that does not have one of the defining features in the identification section is unlikely to be worth more than a few cents. As you probably discovered if you looked up your individual rares, many of those are worth less than a dollar.