The Miniature Poodle. Slightly larger than the Toy Poodle, the Miniature Poodle stands at about 15 inches tall and should weigh in somewhere between 12–20 pounds. Miniature Poodles are extremely smart, adaptable and easy to train, so it's no surprise that they were once very popular circus dogs
Height, Weight Height: 11 - 15 inches (28 - 38 cm) Weight: 15 - 17 pounds (7 - 8 kg) The sizes of the official AKC-recognized Poodle breeds are determined by height, not by weight. The Miniature Poodle must be over 10 inches and 15 inches or less at the highest point of the shoulder. Any Poodle which is over 15 inches or is less than 10 inches at the highest point of the shoulder cannot compete in the AKC show ring as a Miniature Poodle.
Predicting a puppy's adult size and weight is not an exact science. This chart, developed over many years of experience by long-time poodle breeders and experts, is a helpful guideline at predicting future weight. (Example: If your 6 week old puppy weighs 20 oz., it's projected adult weight would be 4.5 lbs.). 
Size: Over 10 inches (25 cm) and under 15 inches (38 cm). Appearance. The Miniature Poodle has the same appearance as the toy, but is larger; 10-15 inches at the shoulder and generally 10 pounds or so heavier. This breed is very graceful and carries itself with confidence and pride, walking with its head held high.
Poodles that are more than 10 inches at the highest point of the shoulders shall be disqualified from competition as a Toy Poodle, if over 10 inches but under 15 inches tall at the highest point of the shoulders the dog should be considered a Miniature Poodle. Male Toy Poodles are the same height as female Toy Poodles. Faults: Thin pads, splay foot or feet that turn either in or out.Height: The Toy Poodle is 10 inches or less at the shoulders.Weight: The Toy Poodle should average 4 - 8 pounds. The weight of the Toy Poodle is to be in balance with the height of the breed. Toy Poodles are solid but should not be heavy. Color: The Toy Poodle comes in many colors including solid colors and multi colored or parti colored (two or more colors)
Predicting a puppy’s adult size and weight is not an exact science. This chart, developed over many years of experience by long-time poodle breeders and experts, is a helpful guideline at predicting future weight. (Example: If your 5 weeks old puppy weighs 22 oz., it’s projected adult weight would be 5.5 lbs.). 
Miniature Poodles are exception family companions. Weight: The Miniature Poodle should average 12 - 17 pounds. Height: The Miniature Poodle is 11 - 15 inches at the shoulders. Coat: The coat of the Miniature Poodle is very abundant, curly and dense with a harsh texture. Faults: Thin pads, splay foot or feet that turn either in or out.Height: The Miniature Poodle is 11 - 15 inches at the shoulders. Weight: The Miniature Poodle should average 12 - 17 pounds. The weight of the Miniature Poodle is to be in balance with the height of the breed. Miniature Poodles are solid but should not be heavy. Color: The Miniature Poodle comes in many colors including solid colors and multi colored or parti colored (two or more colors)