Education, Training and Certification. Medical billing is a robust career field that is generally open to those with a high school diploma or equivalent GED certificate. However, many employers have begun looking only at candidates who have certification. As billing clerks working in the healthcare field, certified medical billers can expect to earn a similar amount, although the exact compensation will vary depending on the sector of the healthcare industry and the state.
The Certified Professional Biller (CPB™) credential prepares medical billers with skills to maintain all aspects of the revenue cycle. Without expertise in medical billing and the nuances of payer requirements, reimbursement may be compromised. VALIDATE YOUR EXPERTISE. 
How to Become a Certified Medical Biller. Medical billing certification proves that you have an advanced proficiency in medical billing and gives you an advantage over your non-certified counterparts. Ad
Being a certified medical biller allows you to take on more duties and advance more in your career. You’re not limited in your career growth if you choose to become a certified professional. In order to become a certified medical biller, you’ll have to pass the Certified Medical Reimbursement Specialist Exam. Simply put, a medical biller does the prep work required so insurance companies can process claims in a hassle-free manner without any worry of fraud. In some ways, they’re like an accountant.
Tips. 1  Get a bachelor's degree or higher to help advance your medical coding career. 2  You may also be able to get an advanced credential in your specialty. 3  Specialty areas you can get a credential for include Anesthesiology, Cardiology, General Surgery, Internal Medicine, Orthopedics, Pediatrics, and Urology. 1 Ask the school about their pass rate on medical coder certification exams and the career placement services they offer. 2  If you have plans to attend a four year institution later on you should enroll in an associate's degree program instead of a certificate program.
When selecting medical billing courses, choose those offered by an accredited organization that has a strong history of training medical billers. The program should prepare you to pass one of several available medical billing certification exams. As billing clerks working in the healthcare field, certified medical billers can expect to earn a similar amount, although the exact compensation will vary depending on the sector of the healthcare industry and the state.
Billers who work in private doctors' offices may earn slightly less than those who work in hospitals or medical laboratories. The BLS estimates that the median salary for a biller in a physician's office is $34,980, while in a hospital the median salary rises to $35,460. Because many employers prefer certified employees, salaries vary significantly between those with and without certification. As billing clerks working in the healthcare field, certified medical billers can expect to earn a similar amount, although the exact compensation will vary depending on the sector of the healthcare industry and the state.
Research what it takes to become a medical insurance biller. Learn about education requirements, job duties, average wages and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Insurance Billing & Coding Specialist degrees can also be found in these popular choices. 
A certified medical biller is what keeps the health industry running. They take care of the prep work that needs to be done before submitting claims to insurance companies. They ensure that the claims are processed smoothly without causing hassles to physicians, hospitals and billing companies. Simply put, a medical biller does the prep work required so insurance companies can process claims in a hassle-free manner without any worry of fraud. In some ways, they’re like an accountant.