Over 60 million tonnes of poly(ethene), often known as polyethylene and polythene, is manufactured each year making it the world's most important plastic. Its uses include film, packaging and containers, from bottles to buckets. Uses of poly(ethene) (polyethylene). -3) and linear low density (LLDPE) (ca 0.915-0.940 g cm -3) and high density (HDPE) (ca 0.940-0.965 g cm -3). The LDPE or LLDPE form is preferred for film packaging and for electrical insulation.
LDPE is created by free radical polymerization. The high degree of branching with long chains gives molten LDPE unique and desirable flow properties. LDPE is used for both rigid containers and plastic film applications such as plastic bags and film wrap. In 2013 the global LDPE market had a volume of almost US$33 billion. For common commercial grades of medium-and high-density polyethylene the melting point is typically in the range 120 to 180 °C (248 to 356 °F). The melting point for average, commercial, low-density polyethylene is typically 105 to 115 °C (221 to 239 °F).
Best Answer: millions of things. Polyethylene is the most popular plastic in the world.It has a very simple structure, the simplest of all commerical polymers. A molecule of polyethylene is a long chain of carbon atoms, with two hydrogen atoms attached to each carbon atom. It is used to provide coatings to paper and paperboard products for packaging of liquids such as milk and fruit juices, and to provide a moisture barrier to paper and woven cloth. It is also used for the coating of foil to provide a heat-seal layer in multilayer film structures.
High-density polyethylene (HDPE) is one of the most commonly used plastics in the United States. Labeled as #2 plastic, it is typically found in milk jugs, plastic bags and refillable plastic bottles. 
Polyethylene (abbreviated PE) or polyethene (IUPAC name polyethene or poly(methylene)) is the most common plastic. The annual global production is approximately 80 million tonnes. For common commercial grades of medium-and high-density polyethylene the melting point is typically in the range 120 to 180 °C (248 to 356 °F). The melting point for average, commercial, low-density polyethylene is typically 105 to 115 °C (221 to 239 °F).
HDPE: high density” polyethylene This is the sturdiest and most inflexible type. Its sturdy and somewhat tough character can be used for a large range of applications. For example the well-known gft-container and a number of everyday domestic products like bottles, clothes pegs and the handle of a washing-up brush. LDPE: low density” polyethylene The oldest type. A soft, tough and flexible polyethylene type, used for strong, flexible consumer items, like screw caps and lids. For a long time already, it is also used as insulation material. At present the most popular application is foil, from which carrier bags, packaging material and agricultural plastic are made
Polyethylene is probably the polymer you see most in daily life. Polyethylene is the most popular plastic in the world. This is the polymer that makes grocery bags, shampoo bottles, children's toys, and even bullet proof vests. For such a versatile material, it has a very simple structure, the simplest of all commercial polymers. 