Answer by Herrel17. Confidence votes 285. Enamel is usually used in Indian jewelry but can be found it some exotic pcs also. which has different or sometimes the same color enamel (a special paint used specially for jewelry). they are also called as meenakari jewelry. 
Enamelling. Jewellery enamelling is a great way to add colour to your creations. Browse our extensive range of enamel supplies to find the products you need to create beautiful enamelled jewellery. For beginners, we supply epoxy enamel resin (cold enamel), which doesn’t need to be fired. 
Enamel Jewelry Designers-Enameling. Enameling is the fusion of a special powdered glass to metals. The glass can be applied using different techniques, but all methods use heat to melt the powder. View designer enamel jewelry and get details about the process used to make it.
Much in the way that “tooth enamel” is the protective coating over a tooth, “enamel” is a decorative or protective coating that is applied to a metal. It is made up of a glass, paste-like, substance that is adhered to a metal through fusion at very high temperatures. It starts out in a powder form. 
There are three types of enamel that is used in jewelry; opaque, transparent and translucent. Different effects are produced by using these enamels singly or in combinations of two or more. Thus an opaque yellow, overfired with a transparent blue enamel would produce a green effect. For jewelry industry, we can define enamelling as a technique of adding colour to a piece of jewelry. Enamel basically is a finely grounded glass.
The New Enamel Jewelry. Lately I’ve noticed a profusion of artists working with what is sometimes called the new enamel jewelry, or cold enameling with epoxy resin. I’ve seen many designs using this technique with bright colors and powerfully fun designs
Enamel Pendants & Components. Enamel pendants, links and beads offer a unique, handmade versatility that is rare in modern jewelry components. With these components, you get rich color and dynamic texture that will add a vibrant effect to any design that your imagination can create. 
True vitreous enamel as used in each jewelry piece is the beautiful fusion of fired glass with sterling silver, resulting in a lustrous color that will never change. This technique was made famous in the 1900's by jewellers like Lalique, Faberge and Tiffany. 
Vitreous enamel, also called porcelain enamel, is a material made by fusing powdered glass to a substrate by firing, usually between 750 and 850 °C (1,380 and 1,560 °F). The powder melts, flows, and then hardens to a smooth, durable vitreous coating on metal, or on glass or ceramics. The term enamel is most often restricted to work on metal, which is the subject of this article. Enameled glass is also called painted. The word enamel comes from the Old High German word smelzan (to smelt) via the Old French esmail, or from a Latin word smaltum, first found in a 9th-century life of Leo IV. Used as a noun, an enamel is usually a small decorative object coated with enamel.
Enamel flat pendants and charms using the quick and easy immersion method. Please check out my North Light book, Torch-Fired Enamel Jewelry: a Workshop in Painting with Fire, at Amazon ... make sure to Look Inside for a details of the immersion technique. 