Journey Totem. You Journey Totem animal is with you for a specific period of time – whether that be weeks, months or even years, depending on how long it takes you to walk the path and learn the lesson/s that your Journey Totem animal is guiding and assisting you with. The phrase “animal totem” literally means a symbolic representation of your animal guide; such as a crest, a totem pole, an emblem, a small figurine, or anything else that depicts your animal guide. A totem could be symbolic for a whole tribe, clan or family – or just an individual
Native American Totems & Their Meanings. A totem is a spirit being, sacred object, or symbol of a tribe, clan, family or individual. Native American tradition provides that each individual is connected with nine different animals that will accompany each person through life, acting as guides. 
Birth Totems. You may have an animal totem at your birth. Some of the pure of heart can see their totem, and children are usually the most pure of heart. We all know of children who talk to an unseen friend. They could be talking to their totem, the protector and friend. As we grow the birth totem is helping us. Mythical totems are not usually a birth totem or stay with a person for a long time. The mythical totem is very strong. If you feel very drawn and close to this being, it is more than likely your totem for that time in you life. The totem is there to teach us or protect us, or both. The horse is my birth totem.
There are many ways to identify animal totems. In fact, there are as many ways to discover animal totems as there are beliefs surrounding them. Due to the variety of methods and beliefs, determining your animal symbol can be confusing and sometimes a discouraging process. The practice of animal totem identification is a personal one. There's no right or wrong answer. I talk about the dangers of pat answers when identifying animal totems (or allowing others to assign totems for you) on my blog. Here's the link: Poof! You're A Toad-The Dangers of Totem-Assignment.
An Animal Totem is an important symbolic object used by a person to get in touch with specific qualities found within an animal which the person needs, connects with, or feels a deep affinity toward. You can have several animal guides through out your life. If You Don't Know. If you don't know what your Animal Totem is there are several questions you can ask yourself. All of the questions below are designed to get you thinking about a prominent animal in your life. There are no right or wrong answers.
Animal totems are usually associated with the spiritual culture of Native Americans, but they are also common in the spiritual traditions of Africa, Asia, Australia, and Europe. An animal totem is a teacher and a guide, not necessarily an animal that characterizes you. Determining your animal totem is less about finding an animal that is like you and more about discovering an animal with characteristics you can learn from the most. Learning your animal totem can also help you find the domestic equivalent for your home
Your animal totems can be any animal that you feel drawn to. There are “power totems” – animals that follow you through your whole life journey and help you develop your inherent strengths and talents. There are also “shadow totems” that teach us to master our fears and conquer shortcomings. This website features the meanings of various totem animals as well as different techniques you can use to discover and connect with your animal spirit guides.
Animal Totem awareness is by no means a worship of the animals but rather using the animal totems as spiritual tools, or rather a spiritual symbiosis, along our personal path of awareness. There is honor and respect for all of nature. Man is not above nature, man is one with nature. 