If stones completely block the common bile duct, the flow of bile out of the liver can also be blocked. This causes swelling, irritation, and pain in your liver, your gallbladder, or both. If not treated, swelling can cause your gallbladder to burst, or you could get a serious infection. 
Blockage of the bile ducts may cause symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. If the bile duct remains blocked bile is unable to drain properly, jaundice (yellow discoloration of the eyes and skin) can develop and an infection known as cholangitis may also occur. Occasionally the gallstones can also block the flow of digestive enzymes from the pancreas because both the bile ducts and pancreas ducts drain through the same small opening (called the Ampulla of Vater) which is held tight by a small circular muscle (called the Sphincter of Oddi).
Bile duct obstruction is a blockage in the tubes that carry bile from the liver to the gallbladder and small intestine. In serious cases, the common bile duct can be surgically moved so that it empties further down the small intestine. 
1 Cholecystitis can cause severe pain and fever. 2  Blockage of the common bile duct. 3  Gallstones can block the tubes (ducts) through which bile flows from your gallbladder or liver to your small intestine. 4  Jaundice and bile duct infection can result. 5  Blockage of the pancreatic duct. Complications of gallstones may include: 1  Inflammation of the gallbladder. 2  A gallstone that becomes lodged in the neck of the gallbladder can cause inflammation of the gallbladder (cholecystitis). 3  Cholecystitis can cause severe pain and fever. 4
1 Blockage of the common bile duct. 2  Gallstones can block the tubes (ducts) through which bile flows from your gallbladder or liver to your small intestine. 3  Jaundice and bile duct infection can result. 4  Blockage of the pancreatic duct. 5  The pancreatic duct is a tube that runs from the pancreas to the common bile duct. Complications of gallstones may include: 1  Inflammation of the gallbladder. 2  A gallstone that becomes lodged in the neck of the gallbladder can cause inflammation of the gallbladder (cholecystitis). 3  Cholecystitis can cause severe pain and fever. 4 
Gall stones or biliary stones can pass from the gallbladder or liver, respectively, into the common bile duct and proceed into the small intestine depending on their size. As they pass through the biliary tree, these stones may cause obstructions if they are lodged in the bile duct. 
Overview. A biliary obstruction is a blockage of the bile ducts. The bile ducts carry bile from the liver and gallbladder through the pancreas to the small intestine (the duodenum). Bile is a dark-green or yellowish-brown fluid secreted by the liver to digest fats. Much of the bile is released directly into the small intestine, but what remains is stored in the gallbladder. The biliary duct (the duct from the gallbladder) also opens into the common hepatic duct. The bile duct from this point onward is known as the common bile duct or choledochus. Before emptying into the small intestine the common bile duct passes through the pancreas.
An inflamed gallbladder (cholecystitis), infected material trapped within the common bile duct (cholangitis), or a stone blocking outflow of pancreatic juice (gallstone pancreatitis) can result in fever, chills, severe abdominal pain or jaundice. Occasionally the gallstones can also block the flow of digestive enzymes from the pancreas because both the bile ducts and pancreas ducts drain through the same small opening (called the Ampulla of Vater) which is held tight by a small circular muscle (called the Sphincter of Oddi).
Symptoms arise when a gallstone blocks the flow of bile out of the gallbladder or through the bile ducts. A gallstone in the common bile duct is called choledocholithiasis and may cause intermittent or constant discomfort. Occasionally the gallstones can also block the flow of digestive enzymes from the pancreas because both the bile ducts and pancreas ducts drain through the same small opening (called the Ampulla of Vater) which is held tight by a small circular muscle (called the Sphincter of Oddi).