For example, sickle-cell disease is caused by a single point mutation (a missense mutation) in the beta-hemoglobin gene that converts a GAG codon into GTG, which encodes the amino acid valine rather than glutamic acid. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A point mutation, or single base substitution, is a type of mutation that causes the replacement of a single base nucleotide with another nucleotide of the genetic material, DNA or RNA. One can categorize point mutations as follows: Transition mutations are about an order of magnitude more common than transversions
Sometimes the term point mutation is also used to describe insertions or deletions of a single base pair (which has more of an adverse effect on the synthesized protein due to the nucleotides' still being read in triplets, but in different frames: a mutation called a frameshift mutation). This is an example of a non-conservative (missense) mutation. Point mutations that occur in non-coding sequences are most often without consequences, although there are exceptions. If the mutated base pair is in the promoter sequence of a gene, then the expression of the gene may change.
noun, plural: point mutations. A mutation in DNA or RNA molecule involving a change of only one nucleotide base. Supplement. This type of mutation occurring in noncoding sequences often does not result in an altered amino acid sequence during translation.
1 Sometimes the term point mutation is used to describe insertions or deletions of a single base pair (which has more of an adverse effect on the synthesized protein due to the nucleotides' still being read in triplets, but in different frames: a mutation called a frameshift mutation). A single point mutation can change the whole DNA sequence. Changing one purine or pyrimidine may change the amino acid that the nucleotides code for. Point mutations may arise from spontaneous mutations that occur during DNA replication. The rate of mutation may be increased by mutagens.
Point mutations. A point mutation or single base pair substitution is a change in one nucleotide. A point mutation that occurs in an exon of a coding gene results in an alteration of the transcribed protein. 
Of the three types of point mutations the most harmful are insertions and deletions. They result in what is known as a frameshift mutation. When a nucleotide base is either inserted or deleted it disrupts the amino acids coded for from the site of the mutation on to the end of the gene. 
Best Answer: Dear Rose, A point mutation, or single base substitution, is a type of mutation that causes the replacement of a single base nucleotide with another nucleotide of the genetic material, DNA or RNA. Often the term point mutation also includes insertions or deletions of a single base pair. This is an example of a non-conservative (missense) mutation. Point mutations that occur in non-coding sequences are most often without consequences, although there are exceptions. If the mutated base pair is in the promoter sequence of a gene, then the expression of the gene may change.
A point mutation, or single base modification, is a type of mutation that causes a single nucleotide base change, insertion, or deletion of the genetic material, DNA or RNA. The term frameshift mutation indicates the addition or deletion of a base pair. A single point mutation can change the whole DNA sequence. Changing one purine or pyrimidine may change the amino acid that the nucleotides code for. Point mutations may arise from spontaneous mutations that occur during DNA replication. The rate of mutation may be increased by mutagens.