Traditional halloumi is made from unpasteurised sheep and goat milk. Many people also like halloumi that has been aged; kept in its own brine, it is much drier, much stronger and much saltier. This cheese is very different from the milder halloumi that Western chefs use as an ingredient. Cypriots like eating halloumi with watermelon in the warm months, and as halloumi and lountza – a combination of halloumi cheese and either a slice of smoked pork, or a soft lamb sausage.
Halloumi. Halloumi is a Cypriot firm, brined, slightly springy white cheese, traditionally made from a mixture of goat and sheep milk, although these days cow’s milk is also used. Its texture is similar to that of mozzarella or thick feta, except that it has a strong, salty flavour imbibed from the brine preserve. It is an essential part of a Cyprus Meze and many a times it is offered as an accompaniment with cold beer. The cheese also tastes lovely when grilled, pan-fried or thinly sliced on a salad. 1  Made from pasteurized or unpasteurized cow 's, goat 's and sheep 's milk. 2  Country of origin: Cyprus.
Halloumi cheese originated in Cyprus and was initially made during the Medieval Byzantine period (AD 395 – 1191), by the local Greek population, subsequently gaining popularity throughout the Middle East region. The cheese is white, with a distinctive layered texture, similar to mozzarella and has a salty flavour. Cypriots like eating halloumi with watermelon in the warm months, and as halloumi and lountza – a combination of halloumi cheese and either a slice of smoked pork, or a soft lamb sausage.
Traditionally it is made with milk from a sheep or goat, but with no PDO to ensure that any cheese labelled as halloumi adheres to this, many variants are made with a mixture of cow's and sheep's milk. Some UK companies such as Milky's have even started producing the cheese exclusively from British cow's milk. This salty cheese from Cyprus-made from sheep's, goat's and often cow's milk-has a high melting point, allowing it to be grilled or even fried. Halloumi has made a classic British culinary journey from ethnic speciality to commonplace item.
Enjoy grilled cheese without the bread -- it's the best way to eat it in the summertime. And not just any cheese, but halloumi. Halloumi is a semi-hard cheese made from a mixture of sheep, goat and cow's milk that's popular in Cypriot cuisine. (Cypriot is a blend of Greek, Turkish, Italian and Middle Eastern foods.).
Find over 1750 specialty cheeses from 74 countries in the world's greatest cheese resource. Halloumi is a Cypriot firm, brined, slightly springy white cheese, traditionally made from a mixture of goat and sheep milk, although these days cow’s milk is also used. Its texture is similar to that of mozzarella or thick feta, except that it has a strong, salty flavour imbibed from the brine preserve. It is an essential part of a Cyprus Meze and many a times it is offered as an accompaniment with cold beer. The cheese also tastes lovely when grilled, pan-fried or thinly sliced on a salad. 1  Made from pasteurized or unpasteurized cow 's, goat 's and sheep 's milk. 2  Country of origin: Cyprus.
Halloumi or haloumi (Greek χαλούμι, Turkish hellim, Arabic حلوم ḥallūm) is a traditional Cypriot cheese that is also popular in the rest of the Middle East and Greece, and is now made the world over. It is made from a mixture of goat's and sheep milk, although some halloumi can be bought that also contains cow's milk. It has a high melting point, and so can easily be fried or grilled. Halloumi is set with rennet, and is unusual in that no acid or acid-producing bacterium is used in its preparation. Halloumi cheese originated in Cyprus and was initially made during the Medieval Byzantine period, subsequently gaining popularity throughout the rest of the Middle East region. Industrial halloumi contains more cow's milk than goat and sheep milk. This reduces the cost but changes the taste and the grilling properties.
Traditional halloumi is made from a blend of sheep and goat milk, which gives the flavor a distinctive tang. Cheese made from cow's milk is growing more common, since this type of milk is cheaper and it has a more mild flavor. 
Like halloumi, kefalotyri is made from sheep or goat milk, but it's a step up in both hardness and saltiness, with a bit less tang. This Greek cheese also has a very high melting point that allows it to be browned on the grill without turning into a gooey mess. There's no better place to start than with halloumi, the rightful king of grilling cheese. The salty, semi-hard goat and sheep milk cheese hails from Cyprus and has a high melting point that makes it suitable to grill.
Although Halloumi is traditionally made with ewe's milk and added cow's milk, I will be making it in this recipe with 100% cow's milk. You can easily substitute your own mix of milk if you like. The recipe below is for a 1 gallon batch to make your first trial easier. 