Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Bake the quiches in the oven until the filling is puffed and the crust is golden brown, or about 20 to 25 minutes for unfrozen mini quiches and 30 to 35... (more). Yes, you can freeze and reheat a quiche. Before you freeze the quiche, allow it to cool. Wrap it tightly in a layer of plastic wrap and then in tin foil. To reheat, place in a 350 degree oven for 30...
Instructions. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or the temperature specified on the package. Place the uncooked quiche on a baking tray. Tear off three or four strips of aluminum foil, about 1/2 to 3/4 inch wide. Bake the quiche for the amount of time recommended on the package. This is usually 30 to 35 minutes for a precooked quiche and 35 to 40 minutes for an uncooked one. Remove the aluminum foil strips from the crust after about 15 minutes so it can brown as the quiche cooks
Cover them with plastic wrap and refrigerate. When you are ready to re-heat the quiche, preheat your oven to 350 degrees F. Remove the plastic wrap and place the quiche in the oven in its original pan for about 15 -20 minutes or until the center is warmed through. If you are going to place more than one in the oven at a time, figure additional re-heating time in before you need to serve them
Reheating. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Remove the plastic wrap and heat the quiche for 10 to 15 minutes or until it is thoroughly warm. Reheat the quiche in a metal pan or in the original pan you baked it in.
The Q&A Community about Food and Drink Sign in to read answers or ask questions. It is best to reheat a quiche in the oven. Microwaving it can make it tough and uneatable. If the quiche is not frozen, place it in a preheated oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for about 15 to 20 minutes. If you don't have a thermometer, one way to make sure it is warmed through is to stick a knife into the center and place it on your lip to see if it is hot. Yes, you can freeze and reheat a quiche. Before you freeze the quiche, allow it to cool. Wrap it tightly in a layer of plastic wrap and then in tin foil. To reheat, place in a 350 degree oven for 30...
Answer by Anita27 (656). Quiche is best reheated in the oven. Set the oven on a low temperature, 300-350 degrees and reheat the quiche in the original pan or a metal pan for 8-10 minutes. Reheating in the microwave will make the eggs slimmy and the crust will become soft instead of flakey. 
Now place the quiche slices on to a baking sheet that is already placed on a baking pan. Insert an oven thermometer into the center of the quiche and heat it in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes or until the thermometer reads 165 Fahrenheit. At this temperature any food borne illness causing bacteria will die. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. To reheat quiche: Place in a 325 degree oven for 15 minutes, until heated through. (7 to 10 minutes for small quiche) Many quiches do well made 1 or two days in advance, then being reheated in the oven or toaster oven. Beware of the microwave-it will make eggs rubbery. 
1 Preheat oven to 300°F. 2  Meanwhile, remove the quiche from the refrigerator, and let it sit for 10-15 minutes on the kitchen counter top, till it is warm. 3  Once it is sufficiently warm, place it in a metal pan, and bake it. 1 It will defrost in the refrigerator before you use it the next morning. 2  Preheat oven to 300°F. 3