Famous William Shakespeare Quotes. William Shakespeare (1564-1616) is the most famous playwright of all times. His emphatic expression and unique writing style make an impact on the reader. Below, find links to the best Shakespeare quotes. As the author of famous plays like Hamlet, Macbeth, Romeo and Juliet and King Lear, Shakespeare became a legend in his own right. With a mature narrative embellished with a mix of romance and witty comedy, he always infused life to his characters.
A list of the best William Shakespeare quotes. List is arranged by which ones are the most famous William Shakespeare quotes and which have proven the most popular with visitors to this page. All the top quotes from William Shakespeare should be listed here, but if any were missed you can add more quotes by William Shakespeare at the end of the list.
Famous William Shakespeare quotes...there are thousands. But the most highly regarded English writer of all time also had a romantic side, resulting in an incredible selection of one-of-a-kind, heart pumping, butterflies in the stomach William Shakespeare love quotes. We have narrowed down some of the most famous William Shakespeare quotes that focus that awe inspiring emotion of love. So without further adieu, please enjoy this selection of 9 William Shakespeare love quotes that are sure to bring out the lover in you.
40 Favorite William Shakespeare Quotes. William Shakespeare was a well known English Poet and Play Writer. Famous for plays such as, Antony and Cleopatra, Coriolanus, Hamlet, Julius Caesar, Macbeth, Othello, Romeo and Juliet and many many more…. We have put together a list of our favourite William Shakespeare Quotes below. William Shakespeare. Listen to many, speak to a few. William Shakespeare. And this, our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything.
William Shakespeare, in his many plays, produced a large number of quotes on the subject of acting. 1  If it be true that good wine needs no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no epilogue. 
Biography of William Shakespeare. William Shakespeare is one of the most well-known poets and playwrights. Many of his pieces are studied by students today, and his plays continue to be performed. It's speculated that he was born on April 23, 1564 in Stratford-upon-Avon because he was baptized at Holy Trinity Church on April 26, 1564. 1 His plays have been translated into dozens of languages. 2  Hamlet is Shakespeare's longest play. 3  A compilation of his plays, The First Folio, was published in 1623. 4  An original copy was sold in 2006 for nearly $5 million.
The actors in Shakespeare's company included the famous Richard Burbage, William Kempe, Henry Condell and John Heminges. Burbage played the leading role in the first performances of many of Shakespeare's plays, including Richard III, Hamlet, Othello, and King Lear. William Shakespeare (/ˈʃeɪkspɪər/ ; 26 April 1564 (baptised) – 23 April 1616) was an English poet, playwright, and actor, widely regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist.
By Lee Jamieson. As this top 10 list of famous Shakespeare quotes reveals, Shakespeare was the most prolific poet and dramatist the Western world has ever seen. His plays and sonnets are some of the most quoted in literature and picking the top 10 famous Shakespeare quotes is no easy task! 
William Shakespeare, the English poet, playwright and dramatist, is the center of adulation and inspiration to artists from all genres. As the author of famous plays like Hamlet, Macbeth, Romeo and Juliet and King Lear, Shakespeare became a legend in his own right. With a mature narrative embellished with a mix of romance and witty comedy, he always infused life to his characters.
While his heyday was in the 16th century, Shakespeare’s classic plays and poems have traveled throughout the centuries, remaining widely studied and appreciated, and surprisingly relatable today. We have narrowed down some of the most famous William Shakespeare quotes that focus that awe inspiring emotion of love. So without further adieu, please enjoy this selection of 9 William Shakespeare love quotes that are sure to bring out the lover in you.