If they are you need to replace the heating element. You can purchase a replacement heating element at your local appliance dealer. Be sure to take the serial number and the make of the dryer with you. The replacement part should cost between $50-$65. Place the new heating element on the dryer being careful not to drop it. Reconnect the two wires exactly as they were before you removed the old heating element. With a screwdriver or a nut driver unscrew the back panel of the dryer which usually has ten to twelve screws. Gently remove the cover and set aside. The heating element should be a small square panel located about a foot above the bottom of the dryer. This square panel is a 3 1/3 inch by 31/2 inch square.
When you place a load of wet clothes in your dryer and turn it on, the dryer fans pull air into the machine and through a heating element. The heating element heats the air before directing it into the clothing tumbler where the heat helps dry your wet garments. If your clothes are taking longer than normal to dry or you notice that your dryer is no longer heating the air, the dryer may have a faulty heating element.
Although a dryer's heating element can cost anywhere from $25 to over $200, the average cost of a heating element at the time of publication is approximately $35 to $60. The heating element heats the air before directing it into the clothing tumbler where the heat helps dry your wet garments. If your clothes are taking longer than normal to dry or you notice that your dryer is no longer heating the air, the dryer may have a faulty heating element.
The Procedure. To replace the heating element or ignition coil in a dryer, you either have to remove an access cover on the front of the appliance or the plate on the back. After disconnecting the dryer from electricity and gas, you can usually lift either of them off after removing a few screws. Thermostats and Fuses. Even after you replace the heating element or ignition coil, the dryer may fail to heat up, and that's usually related to one of two thermostats in the circuitry. After checking their location with the help of the manual, you can test them -- with the machine unplugged -- using an ohmmeter.
Replacement Parts. Prices for heating elements for electric dryers vary with make and model, but they typically range from $35 to $100. Gas ignition coils are similarly priced, and you shouldn't have to pay more than $100 for one. Thermostats and Fuses. Even after you replace the heating element or ignition coil, the dryer may fail to heat up, and that's usually related to one of two thermostats in the circuitry. After checking their location with the help of the manual, you can test them -- with the machine unplugged -- using an ohmmeter.
Best Answer: the element will cost probably between 40 and 85 dollars depending on the dryer. Find your model number and go to repairclinic.com you should be able to find he information there. As for how much to put one in...well, that depends on the servicer you call. 
The heating element on an electric dryer is a resistive coil similar to the element on an electric room heater, and replacing it is an uncomplicated home repair task. Gas dryers don't have heating elements, but they have ignition coils that can fail and require replacement, and that job is similarly uncomplicated. Thermostats and Fuses. Even after you replace the heating element or ignition coil, the dryer may fail to heat up, and that's usually related to one of two thermostats in the circuitry. After checking their location with the help of the manual, you can test them -- with the machine unplugged -- using an ohmmeter.
Gas dryers cost about $50 to $150 more than electric models, but cost less to power. In terms of repairs, gas dryers don’t include heating elements like electric dryers, but they do have ignition coils that will require replacement throughout the dryer’s lifetime. Heating elements, for example, will cost anywhere between $30 and $200. You will also need to account for labor prices, which could cost between $30 and $100 per hour. See what you can do yourself to save some time and money.
1 At Partstap.com, for example, the cost of a Whirlpool dryer heating element rated 240 volts and 5200 watts will be $19.34, while a Whirlpool dryer heating element rated 240 volts and 5400 watts costs $51.69. 2  A 2-pack, 240-volt heating coil designed for GE/Hotpoint electric dryer costs $15.96. Factors that influence the price: 1  Rating. 2  Dryer elements with higher ratings often cost more. 3  For example, a Whirlpool dryer heating element with a rating of 240 volts and 5200 watts costs about $20, while one with a rating of 240 volts and 5400 volts costs around $50.
Cost. The cost of replacing a heating element will vary widely depending on the brand of clothes dryer you have, the type of heating element your dryer uses and where you purchase the heating element. The heating element heats the air before directing it into the clothing tumbler where the heat helps dry your wet garments. If your clothes are taking longer than normal to dry or you notice that your dryer is no longer heating the air, the dryer may have a faulty