Zebras are social animals that spend time in herds. They graze together, primarily on grass, and even groom one another. Plains (Burchell's) zebras are the most common species. They live in small family groups consisting of a male (stallion), several females, and their young. Audio. No animal has a more distinctive coat than the zebra. Each animal's stripes are as unique as fingerprints—no two are exactly alike—although each of the three species has its own general pattern.
This variation occurs because there are three types of zebra, Burchell's zebra (Equus burchelli), Grevy's zebra (Equus grevyi), and the mountain zebra (Equus zebra).¹ Zebras are found in the more arid portions of eastern and southern Africa. Their range is greatly reduced from what it was in former times. 
There are three species of zebras: the plains zebra, the Grevy'grévy s zebra and the mountain. Zebra the plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the Subgenus, hippotigris But'grevy grévy s zebra is the sole species Of. subgenus dolichohippus They are generally social animals that live in small harems to large herds. Unlike their closest relatives, horses and donkeys, zebras have never been truly domesticated. There are three species of zebras: the plains zebra, the Grevy'grévy s zebra and the mountain. zebra
A zebra does not need any shelter. In Africa, they rest in the shade of trees. Piranhas need a shelter where there is alot of water such as river  and need a shelter where there is not as much large fish like the  spearfish,shark etc. They also need a … shelter where they can mate  and reproduce so their species wont be extinct. 1 person found this useful.
Where Do Zebras Live. Few zebra species have superior habitats in comparison to others. Plains zebra is one of them. These species are akin to live in wide country grasslands, African savannahs and African trees. Even though seldom, these zebras are also known to reside at an elevation of about 13,000 feet (4,000 m). These animals tend to stay away from deserts or dense forests. Zebras Grazing. Unlike plains zebras, mountain zebras do not apt to live beyond an elevation of 6,500 feet (2,000 m) above sea level. Rather they prefer to live at the mountainous slopes of South Africa. With their naturist ability to migrate, these animals do not preferably reside at one place.
Equus quagga. Black and white stripes make the zebra one of the most recognizable animals in the world. The plains zebra, also known as the common zebra, is the most abundant of three species of zebra, inhabiting the grasslands of eastern and southern Africa. The other two species are Grevy’s zebras and mountain zebras. On average, plains zebras are smaller than the other two species of zebra. They range in height from 1-1.5 m (3.5-5 ft.) and can weigh almost 450 kg (1000 lbs.). Plains zebras also have a different stripe pattern than the other species.
Common zebras (Equus burchellii), also known as plains zebras and Burchell's zebras, are the most populous of the three species by far. These residents of the savannah are a common sight on the Serengeti-Mara plains of Kenya and Tanzania. The distinct black and white stripes of the zebra (Equus spp.) are a widely recognized symbol of the savannah. Zebras were once found throughout Africa, but their current geographic distribution is only a fraction of what it once was. Zebras fill vital niches in ecosystems across the continent.
The plains zebra (Equus quagga, formerly Equus burchellii), also known as the common zebra or Burchell's zebra, is the most common and geographically widespread species of zebra. It ranges from the south of Ethiopia through East Africa to as far south as Botswana and eastern South Africa. 
1 Three species of zebras live in Africa. 2  The species are the Plains Zebra, which is the most common one, the Mountain Zebra, and the Grevy Zebra. 3  Zebras are a short, stocky animal that is generally about 8 feet long and stands between 4 and 5 feet at the shoulder. 1 The species are the Plains Zebra, which is the most common one, the Mountain Zebra, and the Grevy Zebra. 2