Our florist can personally deliver your flowers in a vase to the maternity hospital or to her home. We actually recommend that you wait a few days and send your flowers to her home. After giving birth, mothers routinely stay in hospitals overnight or two days at most. During this short time the mom-to-be is in the labor and delivery room and after giving birth is moved to the recovery room. Read Morev. Congratulate the new mommy with a bouquet of the freshest flowers. Don't forget to send flowers to moms-to-be and amazing non-birth mothers, such as adoptive moms, foster moms and surrogate moms. Florist delivered
Taking outfits and blankets to the hospital as a new born baby gift gives the parents some options for going home outfits. After all, you can bet there will be lots of pictures taken of the big event. Ideas for a thoughtful new born baby gift to take to the hospital. A new born baby gift can be very special to new parents. Most people give new born baby gifts at a baby shower, but many like to take something to the hospital when the baby is born.
what is the best gift you can bring to the hospital with you after someone has just had a baby. i'm willing to spend whatever for my sister to get her and/or the baby something. she is due any day!!! Add your answer. Or you could find her a nice locket to put a pic of the baby in and she will have that pic with her at all times. A nice photo album to start putting pics in. Or start a scrapbook for her to remember her pregnancy and she can add to it as the baby grows. Or plan to help her after she goes home around her house.
When a woman first gives birth to a baby it is customary for people to show up at the hospital bearing gifts and good wishes. However, not everyone knows the best thing to bring. Most commonly people bring flowers, balloons, cards and plants. 
A huge bouquet of fresh flowers will make any new mom smile. If you're looking for something more long-lasting, ask the florist to suggest an easy-to-care-for plant (with a new baby in the house, Mom won't have time to tend delicate tropicals). Or buy a tree and plant it for the new mom. Giving birth is one of the most intense, exhausting, amazing experiences of a woman's life. Commemorate the day with a special gift jus
Celebrate the birth of a new baby with a gift basket; convey your gratitude with our thank you gifts; or express heartfelt condolences with sympathy and funeral flowers. Of course, everyone appreciates breathtaking flower arrangements ' just because .' At FTD, each day is special. If you've waited until the last minute to order fall flowers and gifts, our same-day delivery service will ensure on-time delivery. Whether you're driving around a car full of kids or doing a whole lot of nothing this season, count on FTD to supply all your gift-giving needs. 1-800-SEND FTD. Flowers, Plants and Gifts.
Report Abuse. In the hospital after she gives birth you can go to the gift shop and buy her some red roses and a balloon. After you get home you can help her out around the house with the baby and chores (it's the best gift you can give her)! Source(s): Mommy of two and a wonderful husband! Curious J. · 7 years ago. 
It has long been tradition to congratulate new parents with bouquets of flowers to brighten the hospital room or piles of paraphernalia — wrapped with shiny ribbons and dangling plastic booties — to outfit the newborn. Something sparkly is a no-fail gift idea for a new mom. It counteracts all of the plastic stuff you get for the baby, says Bollinger. Of course, anything you pick out for the new mom in your family, to make her feel appreciated, is sure to go over well.