The phylum lycophyta is believed to be the oldest remaining group of all the vascular plants and are thought to have evolved more than 400 million years ago. Included in the lycophytes are club mosses, quillworts and spike mosses plus a number of extinct groups such as the scale trees. Quillworts grow in close association with water. Many species are fully aquatic and grow in lakes, slow-moving rivers and estuaries. Clubmosses and spikemosses mostly enjoy wet, shady environments but some species can be particularly tolerant to drought.
Quillworts are mostly aquatic or semi-aquatic in clear ponds and slow-moving streams, though several (e.g. I. butleri, I. histrix and I. nuttallii) grow on wet ground that dries out in the summer. Quillwort leaves are hollow and quill-like, arising from a central corm. Compared to other genera, the genus Isoetes is a technically difficult and relatively poorly known. Even after various studies with cytology, scanning electron microscopy, and chromatography, the individual species are still difficult to identify and their phylogeny is still disputed.
Warning: !!Families and genera (and thus species names) are changing quickly in the seed-free plants! Phylum Lycopodiophyta club mosses, spike mosses, quillworts ! Leaves microphylls: generally small, simple, one-veined leaves. Microphylls evolved by the process of enation and vascularization. An enation is a veinless, lateral protrubence on the stem. When the enation becomes vascularized it is termed a microphyll.! 
Comments. Submit. There are two divisions of seedless vascular plants. Phylum Lycophyta contains about 1,000 species usually less than two feet tall, including club mosses, spike mosses and quillworts. Most of the 11,000 species of Phylum Pterophyta live in the tropics and include ferns, whisk ferns and horsetails. They all reproduce by spores blown in the wind.
Click the link for more information. and quillworts. As in other vascular plants, the sporophyte, or spore-producing phase, is the conspicuous generation, and the gametophyte gametophyte, phase of plant life cycles in which the gametes, i.e., egg and sperm, are produced. Lycopodiophyta. a division of higher sporophytic plants. The leaves, or more precisely the leaf-shaped organs, are called phylloids. They grow in the form of protuberances, or enations, on the stalk.
Quillworts. The quillworts are a class of around 150 species of plants and almost all species belong to the genus Isoetes. The quillworts rely heavily on water and many species live entirely submerged while others live in seasonally flooded habitats. Quillworts grow in close association with water. Many species are fully aquatic and grow in lakes, slow-moving rivers and estuaries. Clubmosses and spikemosses mostly enjoy wet, shady environments but some species can be particularly tolerant to drought.
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. Arthropod Phylum: All the jointed legged animals. All of these animals have an exoskeleton, meaning the skeleton is on the outside of the body. Include: Insects, Arachnids, and Crustaceans. Mollusk Phylum: Soft-bodied animals that sometimes have a hard shell.
Isoetes, commonly known as the quillworts, is a genus of plants in the class Isoetopsida and order Isoetales. They are lycopods. There are about 140–150 species, with a cosmopolitan distribution but often scarce to rare. Compared to other genera, the genus Isoetes is a technically difficult and relatively poorly known. Even after various studies with cytology, scanning electron microscopy, and chromatography, the individual species are still difficult to identify and their phylogeny is still disputed.