VITAMINS: Honey is rather low in vitamin content. However, we cannot ignore them since they help the human body absorb the sugars in honey. The main vitamins found in honey are: A1, B1, B6, B12, C, D, E, folic acid, etc. ANTIOXIDANTS In general, darker honeys and those high in water content have stronger antioxidant potential. The antioxidants identified thus far are pinocembrin, pinobanksin, chrysin and galagin
Due to the high level of fructose, honey is sweeter than table sugar. * 18% water. The less water content the honey has, the better the quality of honey. * 2% minerals, vitamins, pollen and protein. The vitamins present in honey are B6, thiamin, niacin, riboflavin, pantothenic acid and certain amino acids. The minerals found in honey include calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, phosphorus, potassium, sodium and zinc
Health Benefits Information. The secret to honey nutrition: Why the rich array of complex sugars, vitamins, minerals, amino acids and antioxidants are so beneficial. It is savored by all due to its taste as well as health benefits. What make honey so popular is its nutritional benefits and the ease with which it can be consumed. When bees are allowed free forage, the honey blend is higher in a wider variety of vitamins and minerals. Honey is high in vitamin C, a variety of B vitamins such as niacin, riboflavin, and pantothenic acid, as well as, minerals such as potassium. Honey Nutrition #4: Amino Acids.
Honey is so much more than glucose and fructose, it is a nutrient rich substance with an impressive array of vitamins and minerals with trace amounts of amino acids and antioxidants. In it he writes about the natural therapeutic effects of honey and states: “Honey is a perfect food. It contains large amounts of vitamins, minerals, being particularly rich in vitamins B and C. It contains almost all vitamins of the B-complex, which are needed in the system for the digestion and metabolism of sugar.
It is also a very good source of vitamin-B6 (pyridoxine), vitamin-C and vitamin-E. Consumption of foods rich in vitamin C helps the body develop resistance against infectious agents and scavenge harmful oxygen-free radicals. Vitamin B-6 or pyridoxine is required for GABA hormone production within the brain. 
Vitamins and Minerals. Raw honey is rich in vitamins and minerals. Vitamin B6, thiamine, niacin, riboflavin and pantothenic acid are common vitamins found in raw honey, although amounts vary depending on the floral source of the honey. Calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, phosphorus, potassium, sodium and zinc are abundant minerals in raw honey. The average composition of raw honey is approximately 80 percent carbohydrates, 18 percent water and 2 percent vitamins, minerals and amino acids. Packed with natural sugar -- primarily fructose and glucose -- raw honey is high in carbohydrates.
Honey is also rich in minerals such as calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, potassium, silicon, etc……some types of honey may contain as much as 300 milligrams of vitamin C per 100 grams.”. In it he writes about the natural therapeutic effects of honey and states: “Honey is a perfect food. It contains large amounts of vitamins, minerals, being particularly rich in vitamins B and C. It contains almost all vitamins of the B-complex, which are needed in the system for the digestion and metabolism of sugar.
PROPERTIES & VITAMINS OF HONEY Honey contains more than 180 different substances the complex interrelation of which makes artificial production of honey impossible. The composition and nutritional value of honey differ in relation to the floral sources honeybees have visited. However, we cannot ignore them since they help the human body absorb the sugars in honey. The main vitamins found in honey are: A1, B1, B6, B12, C, D, E, folic acid, etc. ANTIOXIDANTS In general, darker honeys and those high in water content have stronger antioxidant potential.