Forensics is a science dedicated to the methodical gathering and analysis of evidence to establish facts that can be presented in a legal proceeding. 
Computer forensics analysis is not limited only to computer media. Computer forensics (sometimes known as computer forensic science) is a branch of digital forensic science pertaining to evidence found in computers and digital storage media. The goal of computer forensics is to examine digital media in a forensically sound manner with the aim of identifying, preserving, recovering, analyzing and presenting facts and opinions about the digital information.
We are the professional organization for the many men and women who train American students in the skills of public speaking and study the use of reasoned discourse in public life. You will find what we stand for in Our credo. Forensics is a word rooted in the Western world's classical experience. The Greeks organized contests for speakers that developed and recognized the abilities their society felt central to democracy. These exercises acquired the title forensics, derived from the Latin term for ensis and closely related to forum. 
Forensic science plays a vital role in the criminal justice system by providing scientifically based information through the analysis of physical evidence. During an investigation, evidence is collected at a crime scene or from a person, analyzed in a crime laboratory and then the results presented in court. Forensic science is the application of sciences such as physics, chemistry, biology, computer science and engineering to matters of law.
Part of the Security management glossary: Forensic, in a general sense, means related to or used in courts of law or used for formal public debate or discussion.. The word is used in several ways in information technology, including
Forensic Science is any science used for the purposes of the law, and therefore provides impartial scientific evidence for use in the courts of law, e.g. in a criminal investigation and trial. Forensic science is a rigorous scientific discipline, and as such its graduates are highly employable individuals possessing the knowledge and skills for both subject-related employment, such as in a forensic laboratory, or non-subject-related employment in a wider range of careers.
Forensic science is any scientific field that is applied to the field of law. Forensic scientists are tasked with the collection, preservation, and analysis of scientific evidence during the course of an investigation. 1 Forensic archaeology is the application of a combination of archaeological techniques and forensic science, typically in law enforcement. 2  Forensic astronomy uses methods from astronomy to determine past celestial constellations for forensic purposes.
1 Forensic optometry is the study of glasses and other eyewear relating to crime scenes and criminal investigations. 2  Forensic pathology is a field in which the principles of medicine and pathology are applied to determine a cause of death or injury in the context of a legal inquiry. 1 Forensic archaeology is the application of a combination of archaeological techniques and forensic science, typically in law enforcement. 2  Forensic astronomy uses methods from astronomy to determine past celestial constellations for forensic purposes.