The largest planet in the solar system is Jupiter, then Saturn, Neptune, Uranus, Earth, Venus, Mars, Mercury, then, the smallest and former planet, Pluto. Jupiter. Jupiter is the largest planet and Mercury is the smallest planet in our solar system. Extra-solar radii extremes would be HAT-P-32b as the largest and Kepler-42d as the small … est. + 8 others found this useful. Mary Zenter. Prioktan 918. 728,938 Contributions. Law school student at Fordham University.
The largest planet in the solar system is Jupiter. Jupiter is actually over 300 times larger than earth-and if Jupiter was a hollow shell-you could fit over 1,000 Earths inside of it. Jupiter also has 63 moons which is the most in the solar system. Jupiter is also famous for the Great Red Spot which is visible on Jupiter. The Red Spot was created by a storm that has been happening for hundreds of years. Jupiter is an enormous planet-however life could never exist on Jupiter
View full size image. In a rare direct photo of a world beyond Earth, astronomers have spotted a planet 13 times more massive than Jupiter, the largest planet in our own solar system. The planet orbits a star called Kappa Andromedae that is 2.5 times the mass of the sun and is located 170 light-years away from Earth
The smallest planet in regards to both mass and volume is Mercury—this tiny world is nearly 20 times less massive than Earth, and its diameter is about times 2 ½ smaller. In fact, Mercury is closer in size to our Moon than to Earth. The largest planet in our solar system by far is Jupiter, which beats out all the other planets in both mass and volume. Jupiter’s mass is more than 300 times that of Earth, and its diameter is about 11 times larger than Earth’s diameter. 
The more we have come to know and understand about this most-massive of Solar planets, the more deserving of this name it appears. If you’re wondering, here’s how big planets can get with a lot of mass, and here’s what is the biggest star in the Universe. And here’s the 2nd largest planet in the Solar System. Here’s another article about the which is the largest planet in the Solar System, and here’s what’s the smallest planet in the Solar System. We have recorded a whole series of podcasts about the Solar System at Astronomy Cast. Check them out here. 
After Jupiter, the next largest planet is Saturn. Saturn is extremely large, in fact Jupiter is only about 15% bigger than Saturn. However, the mass of Saturn is extremely smaller than Jupiter's. Jupiter has a mass of over 3 times the size of Saturn. Jupiter also has 63 moons which is the most in the solar system. Jupiter is also famous for the Great Red Spot which is visible on Jupiter. The Red Spot was created by a storm that has been happening for hundreds of years. Jupiter is an enormous planet-however life could never exist on Jupiter
Jupiter is the biggest planet in our Solar System.    It is the largest by mass, volume, and surface area among other  statistics. Here are the critical measurements o … f Jupiter as well  as a few other interesting facts about the planet and other bodies  in the Jovian system. Jupiter is the largest planet and Mercury is the smallest planet in our solar system. Extra-solar radii extremes would be HAT-P-32b as the largest and Kepler-42d as the small … est. + 8 others found this useful. Mary Zenter. Prioktan 918. 728,938 Contributions. Law school student at Fordham University.
The planet, dubbed HAT-P-1, is located some 450 light-years from Earth in the constellation Lacerta. It is the largest planet ever discovered and boasts a radius nearly 1.4 times larger than Jupiter's. HAT-P-1 is also the least dense of all known planets. This planet is about one quarter the density of water, said Gaspar Bakos, a Hubble fellow at CfA. In other words, it's lighter than a giant ball of cork. 