Is that 2.5ml of Hydrogen Peroxide and 2.5ml of water will speed up seed germination. Discussion: Dave's Garnden.com: Seed will germinate faster with 10% hydrogen peroxide, but not as fast with 3%.
Metabolic reactions that occur with hydrogen peroxide and heat have an inhibitory effect. On the other hand, those that occur after heating do not appear to inhibit germination although the germination percentage is lower than the percentage of non treated seeds [40].
Hydrogen peroxide has a variety of applications in gardening including seed germination, strengthening seedlings and preventing diseases. Mix regular 3 percent hydrogen peroxide with water in a solution at a rate of 2 1/2 teaspoons per gallon and use it to treat both indoor and outdoor plants.
It's easy to improve your at-home germination rates by using hydrogen peroxide in your pre-planting routine. Simply add 1 ounce of 3-percent hydrogen peroxide to 1 pint of water; choose one of the following three methods. One, soak your seeds for 18 to 24 hours, rinse and plant.
The purpose of this science fair project is to find out the effect of different concentrations of hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2) on the roots of plant cuttings, and on seed germination.
Hydrogen peroxide (often used as a disinfectant) has also been approved for use in pesticides. This science fair project investigates whether hydrogen peroxide has any effects on seed germination or on roots of plant cuttings. Last edit date: 2014-10-10.
Keywords: Barley, hydrogen peroxide, salt stress, seed germination, seedling growth,temperature stress.Cavusoglu K, Kabar K (2010) Effects of hydrogen peroxide on the germination and earlyseedling growth of barley under NaCl and high temperature stresses.
The Effects of Hydrogen Peroxide on the Roots of Plant Cuttings & on Seed Germination. Retrieved October 5, 2015 from http://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/project_ideas/PlantBio_p036.shtml. I Did This Project! Please log in and let us know how things went.
This has to do with the concentration of the detergent and the type of deterget used. If for example a detergent is used that contains phosphate, high concentrations of the phosphate detergent is will be toxic for the seedlings and thus have adverse effects on the germination of the seeds.