The Kinesio Taping Method is applied over muscles to reduce pain and inflammation, relax overused tired muscles, and to support muscles in movement on a 24hr/day basis. It is non-restrictive type of taping which allows for full range of motion. Join the growing family of health professionals helping the world to perform better in everyday life and in competition. From the high-profile athlete to the rehab patient, the Kinesio Taping® Method is advancing health science everywhere.
Kinesio Taping gives support and stability to your muscles and joints without affecting circulation and range of motion. It is also used for Injury Preventive, and to treat Pain, Edema, and Swelling. Kinesio Taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of neurological and circulatory systems. This method basically stems from the science of Kinesiology. Hence the name “Kinesio”. Muscles are not only to move the body but also control the circulation of venous and lymph flows, body temperature, etc.
Kinesio Taping is currently being used by therapists to change muscle tone, move lymphatic fluids, correct movement patterns, and improve posture. The Kinesio Taping Method is a unique method of applying Kinesio Tex Tape in a specific manner to create change in the aforementioned systems. The McConnell Taping Method is a technique that tapes body parts to affect a specific biomechanical movement. McConnell Tape uses a very rigid, highly adhesive tape that is applied for no more that 18 hours and often for shorter periods of time due to patient discomfort. Picture of Kinesio Tape. The Kinesio Taping Method has been developed specifically to be used in conjunction with Kinesio Tape
Kinesio taping gives support and stability to joints and muscles without affecting normal range of motion or circulation. It is very effective in preventing injuries, eliminating edema, and pain management due to abnormal biomechanics. 
Kinesio Taping is a technique based on the body’s own natural healing process. Kinesio Taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of neurological and circulatory systems. This method basically stems from the science of Kinesiology. Hence the name “Kinesio”. Muscles are not only to move the body but also control the circulation of venous and lymph flows, body temperature, etc.
It is also used for Preventive Maintenance, Edema, and to treat pain. Kinesio Taping is a technique based on the body’s own natural healing process. This Kinesio Taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of neurological and circulatory systems. This method basically stems from the science of Kinesiology, hence the name “Kinesio”. Join the growing family of health professionals helping the world to perform better in everyday life and in competition. From the high-profile athlete to the rehab patient, the Kinesio Taping® Method is advancing health science everywhere.
Elastic therapeutic tape applied to patient's leg. Kinesio Taping for Soleus and Achilles tendon. Elastic therapeutic tape is an elastic cotton strip with an acrylic adhesive that is used with the intent of treating pain and disability from athletic injuries and a variety of other physical disorders. The tape is applied with the affected muscle in a stretched position, taping from the origin of the muscle to the insertion point. Once applied, it is rubbed to activate the pressure-sensitive adhesive.
Kinesiology tape is almost identical to human skin in both thickness and elasticity, which allows kinesio tape to be worn without binding, constricting or restriction of your movement. Kinesiology tape is an that is used for treating athletic injuries and a variety of physical disorders. For the first decade after its introduction practitioners in Japan were the main users of the therapeutic kinesiology tape.