1 When you have a Ph.D., sign your name either as Dr. Ernest Smith or Ernest Smith, Ph.D. 2  If you have a Ph.D. you should engrave all your personal envelopes or labels with either Dr. Ernest Smith or Ernest Smith, Ph.D. This is the teaching of St. Thomas Aquinas in his Treatise on Justice. (Question 58). Therefore, one should address a person with a doctorate by his title, and the person should have no fear in calling himself or herself by that name. We believe that to do or think otherwise is to fall into the egalitarian trend of our times
The only hard-and-fast rule is not to use both 'Dr' and 'PhD' when signing your name. From a personal standpoint... If I had recently earned my doctorate, I would append the abbreviation of my degree to my signature in business correspondence. If I were writing or emailing my friends or relatives, I would use my name only, omitting reference to the degree. This is a matter of personal style.
First, we will set out the simple rules for signing your name if you have a Ph.D. (Doctor of Philosophy). Second, we will present some guidelines for spoken address and when the holder of the title should use it. 1. Rules for written correspondence. 2. This is the teaching of St. Thomas Aquinas in his Treatise on Justice. (Question 58). Therefore, one should address a person with a doctorate by his title, and the person should have no fear in calling himself or herself by that name. We believe that to do or think otherwise is to fall into the egalitarian trend of our times
How do you sign your name with a doctoral degree? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. You've done some law enforcement research for the new series. What has that experience been like? What is the name for a doctor who works in the hospital also what is the degree that you need to work ... 
Clarification of Question by sbernardc-ga on 28 Apr 2004 10:59 PDT I am a graduate student who is finishing up the requirements for the Ph.D. Degree. My question is simple, how do I sign my name when I am done. If I had recently earned my doctorate, I would append the abbreviation of my degree to my signature in business correspondence. If I were writing or emailing my friends or relatives, I would use my name only, omitting reference to the degree. This is a matter of personal style.
Note that in some countries a PhD is not required to be called Doctor. for example in Italy you get the title of Dottore (literally Doctor) when you get your bachelors degree.
you can address him as Dr. (Name) safely. And the bad news is with PhD's outside those arenas ... you will need to call to see what his or her preference is. The key is the preference of the bearer .... Thus a PhD in biology doing research at the local university or research lab probably uses Dr. and everybody thinks it is normal. 2) Protestant clergy with doctorates are typically addressed as Dr. (Name) in a salutation or conversation too.
A Phd is a doctor of philosophy degree. This type of degree  requires four years of traditional college and then another four  years of study at graduate school. This is the … y highest degree that  can be earned. On a legal document she should sign her name as Jane Doe, or Jane Schmoh Doe (if her maiden name is Schmoh). If she wants sign personal letters Mrs. John Doe to stress the con … nection to her late husband, that is her choice.
Dear AP, (Full Name), PhD is the official form of her name. You will use on the envelope, or in the address block of a letter, when you write to her with regard to her professional pursuits. This is the form they will use at her university when they list her among the faculty. Dr. (Full Name) is the social form of her name. Thus a PhD in biology doing research at the local university or research lab probably uses Dr. and everybody thinks it is normal. 2) Protestant clergy with doctorates are typically addressed as Dr. (Name) in a salutation or conversation too.