Overview. Spider angiomas are common in both children and adults. They appear more frequently during pregnancy, in people on birth control pills, or in people with liver disease. Who's At Risk. Spider angiomas are most often seen on the face or trunk, and they also may be seen on the hands, forearms, and ears. There may be one spider angioma or several. Each one is a small (1–10 mm) area of redness, which disappears with direct finger pressure but rapidly returns when the pressure is released.
For most people with spider nevus, the only symptom is the appearance of the vessel cluster. There may be a red dot in the center of a cluster of thin vessels, but this is not always the case. The thin vessels form a web-like shape and are red, blue, or purple in color. The cluster of vessels is web-like, with a central spot and radiating vessels; hence the name spider. Spider nevi can be caused by injuries, sun exposure, hormonal changes, or liver disease, but often the cause is unknown.
Spider nevus goes by several names: spider veins, spider angioma, nevus aranius, and vascular spider. A nevus is a collection of small, dilated arterioles (blood vessels) clustered very close to the surface of the skin. The cluster of vessels is web-like, with a central spot and radiating vessels; hence the name spider. Spider nevi can be caused by injuries, sun exposure, hormonal changes, or liver disease, but often the cause is unknown. For most people, the nevi are not a medical concern, but in some cases they may cause discomfort
Spider Angiomas. by admin Leave a Comment. Spider angiomas is a condition in which there would be excess of accumulation of blood near the skin surface. In common terms, it is called spider veins. Since the symptoms of this disease resemble to that of spider legs, it is called spider angiomas. Causes : 
Background. Nevus araneus, also known as spider angioma or spider nevus, is a common benign vascular lesion present in 10-15% of healthy adults and young children. They may appear as a solitary or multiple lesions. Spider angiomas (nevus araneus) also may produce significant cosmetic concerns in some patients. Although a finding of 5 or more spider nevi is common in children with liver disease, this quantity can also be present in many healthy children.
Spider angiomas: is an angioma found below the skin surface often containing a central red spot and reddish extensions which radiate outwards like a spider's web. See detailed information below for a list of 6 causes of Spider angiomas, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
Spider angiomas (nevus araneus) are also associated with liver disease, liver failure, and cirrhosis. In fact, the spider angioma is rumored to have received its name from barmaids in New York, who used the lesion as a marker of liver disease in their customers. Spider angiomas (nevus araneus) also may produce significant cosmetic concerns in some patients. Although a finding of 5 or more spider nevi is common in children with liver disease, this quantity can also be present in many healthy children.
Spider angiomas are often associated with elevated estrogen levels, such as occur in pregnancy or when the liver is diseased and unable to detoxify estrogens. Also called spider nevus. 
For spider angiomas on the face, techniques such as electrodesiccation and laser treatment can be used to remove the lesion. There is a small risk of a scar, although the results are generally good. Spider angiomas can recur after treatment. Spider angiomas are found only in the distribution of the superior vena cava, and are thus commonly found on the face, neck, upper part of the trunk, and arms. They may also be present on the backs of the hands and fingers in young children