Nutritional breakdown of raspberries. According to the USDA National Nutrient Database, one cup of raspberries (about 123 grams) contains 64 calories, 1.5 grams of protein, 0.8 grams of fat, and 15 grams of carbohydrate (including 8 grams of fiber and 5 grams of sugar). 
Low in calories and fat, cholesterol-free and high in fiber and vitamin C, raspberries are a heart-healthy food. Raspberries can be found in assorted colors including gold, black and purple, but red raspberries are the most common. These fruits are as nutritious as they are beautiful. 
Raspberries are an excellent source of vitamin C, manganese, and dietary fiber. They are a very good source of copper and a good source of vitamin K, pantothenic acid, biotin, vitamin E, magnesium, folate, omega-3 fatty acids, and potassium. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Raspberries. 
1 The oil from raspberry seeds is rich in Vitamin E, Omega-3 fatty acids and has a sun protection factor (SPF) of 25-50. 2  Red raspberry ketones are currently being used in Japan as a weight loss supplement in a pill form and as an external patch. 1 Red raspberry oil is creating interest in the cosmeceutical market (skin care products which provide health benefits). 2 
Raspberry nutrition facts. Wonderfully delicious, bright-red raspberry is among the most popular berries to relish! They are rich sources of health promoting plant-derived chemicals, minerals, and vitamins that are essential for optimum health. Botanically, raspberry is a small shrub belonging to the family Rosaceae, in the genus: Rubus. It grows very well under temperate climates. Delicious raspberries are low in calories and fats. Nonetheless, they are rich source of dietary fiber, and antioxidants. 100 g berries hold just 52 calories but provide 6.5 g of fiber (16% of daily recommended intake).
83 mg/100g. Health Benefits Red Raspberries contain strong antioxidants such as Vitamin C, quercetin and gallic acid that fight against cancer, heart and circulatory disease and age-related decline. They are high in ellagic acid, a known chemopreventative, and have been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties. 1 Red raspberry oil is creating interest in the cosmeceutical market (skin care products which provide health benefits). 2  The oil from raspberry seeds is rich in Vitamin E, Omega-3 fatty acids and has a sun protection factor (SPF) of 25-50.
Red raspberry leaf is used for gastrointestinal (GI) tract disorders, including diarrhea; for respiratory system disorders, including flu and swine flu; and for heart problems, fever, diabetes, and vitamin deficiency. It is also used to promote sweating, urination, and bile production. However, red raspberry fruit and leaf have also been used as medicine for centuries. The therapeutic use of raspberry leaf was first described in 1597 in a book called “The Herbal,” or “A General History of Plants.” Today, red raspberry leaf and fruit are still used as medicine.
Vitamin E. A single cup of raspberries contains 1.07 mg of vitamin E, which is less than 1 percent of the daily value. Your body requires vitamin E to boost your immune system to fight off infections from bacterial or viral sources. A single cup of raspberries contains 41 IU of vitamin A. This is approximately 4 percent of the daily value for this vitamin, based on a 2,000-calorie diet.
Vitamin C. Eating 1 cup of raspberries per day will provide you with 32.2 mg of vitamin C, which is 50 percent of the daily value. It is essential to have an adequate intake of vitamin C to promote healing and help the body properly absorb iron. A single cup of raspberries contains 41 IU of vitamin A. This is approximately 4 percent of the daily value for this vitamin, based on a 2,000-calorie diet.