Pop Rocks were accidentally invented in 1975 by William Mitchell, a food scientist at General Foods. He made the discovery while trying to design an instant soft drink, when he put some sugar flavoring mixed with carbon dioxide in his mouth. The exploding candy became a cultural phenomenon after it hit the market.
Pop Rocks History Pop Rocks were developed in 1956 by General Foods research scientist William A. Mitchell (pictured below) and introduced to the market in 1975 at .15 cents per pack.
1 Pop Rocks were invented by Chemist William A. Mitchell, who worked for General Foods. 2  He also invented Tang, Cool Whip, quick-setting Jell-O, a tapioca substitute, and powdered egg whites, among other things.
Much like other hard sugar candies, Pop Rocks are made primarily of sugar, corn syrup, water, and artificial flavoring. It turns out, what causes it to pop when it comes in contact with the moisture and heat in your mouth is not due to any ingredient.
Origins: Invented in 1956 by General Foods research scientist. Mitchell and introduced to the general public in 1975, Pop Rocks were a form of carbonated candy made from sugar, lactose, corn syrup, and flavoring.
This results in the bubbles bursting fairly quickly, releasing the trapped carbon dioxide, often with sufficient force to cause the candy to pop and sometimes jump in your mouth. Bonus Facts: 1  Pop Rocks were invented by Chemist William A. Mitchell, who worked for General Foods. 2  He also invented Tang, Cool Whip, quick-setting Jell-O, a tapioca substitute, and powdered egg whites, among other things.
William A. Mitchell, 92, a food scientist who invented Pop Rocks candy, died of congestive heart failure Monday in a Stockton care home, his daughter said.
Pop Rocks were invented by Chemist William A. Mitchell, who worked for General Foods. He also invented Tang, Cool Whip, quick-setting Jell-O, a tapioca substitute, and powdered egg whites, among other things. All total, he received over 70 patents in his lifetime.