The recommended dosage of Benadryl for treating allergy or common cold symptoms in adults and children ages 12 years and older is 25 to 50 mg every four to six hours. For children 6 to 12 years old, the recommended dosage is 12.5 to 25 mg every four to six hours. For Benadryl cream, spray, stick, or gel, a small amount of the product should be applied to the skin no more than three or four times daily. Do not use these products on children under the age of two.
12.5 mg ** to 25 mg (1 capsule). children under 6 years of age. consult a doctor. **12.5 mg dosage strength is not available in Benadryl (diphenhydramine) ® Allergy Kapseals® Capsules. 
Benadryl Dosage. Benadryl is an allergy medication that can be used to treat reactions in the body or on the skin. Due to the properties that affect the sinuses, this drug can also be used to treat the common cold or other non-bacterial sinus irritations. The drug can be administered multiple times a day with some restrictions.
Potency, Purity and Dose: As an antihistamine, recommended doses for adults is 25-50 mg diphenhydramine every 6-8 hours, not to exceed 50-100 mg every 4-6 hours. For children, 12.5-25 mg three or four times daily is recommended. As a sleep aid the dose is 50 mg at bedtime. Adults can be given 10-50 mg intravenously or intramuscularly, up to a maximum daily dose of 400 mg. Route of Administration: Oral, injected, and topical applications. Pharmacodynamics: Diphenhydramine is a first generation antihistamine and is a H 1 receptor antagonist. Interpretation of Blood Concentrations: Following a single oral dose of 50 mg, average peak plasma concentrations of 83 ng/mL diphenhydramine were detected at 3 hours, declining to 9 ng/mL by 24 hours. A single oral 100 mg dose resulted in average peak plasma concentrations of 112 ng/mL at 2 hours post dose.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. The amount of your dose will depend on the condition being treated, as well as which product you are taking and how you are responding to treatment. When taking Benadryl for a cold or allergies, the common dose is 25 to 50 mg. every four to six hours or maximum 300 mg. in one day. This dose applies to individuals 12 years of age and older. For children between six and 12 years of age, the dosage is 12.5 to 25 mg. four to six hours. 
The usual diphenhydramine dose for insomnia in adults is 50 mg taken 30 minutes before bedtime. Elderly people (or those who seem to be sensitive to the effects of this medication) may find a lower dose (25 mg) to be more tolerable. For children ages 6 to 12 years old, the recommended dosage is 12.5 to 25 mg every four to six hours. Dosing for Allergic Reactions or Motion Sickness. The recommended diphenhydramine dosage for treating allergic reactions or motion sickness in adults is 25 to 50 mg every six to eight hours.
Dosing for Allergies or Cold Symptoms. The recommended diphenhydramine dosage for treating allergy or common cold symptoms in adults and children ages 12 years and older is 25 to 50 mg every four to six hours. For children ages 6 to 12 years old, the recommended dosage is 12.5 to 25 mg every four to six hours. Dosing for Allergic Reactions or Motion Sickness. The recommended diphenhydramine dosage for treating allergic reactions or motion sickness in adults is 25 to 50 mg every six to eight hours.
The recommended Benadryl dosage for treating allergy or common cold symptoms in adults and children ages 12 years and older is 25 to 50 mg every four to six hours. For children 6 to 12 years old, the recommended dosage is 12.5 to 25 mg every four to six hours. For Benadryl cream, spray, stick, or gel, a small amount of the product should be applied to the skin no more than three or four times daily. Do not use these products on children under the age of two.
Criteria and Recommended Benadryl Dosage. Benadryl can be offered to those over 12 years of age in 25 to 50 mg doses every 4 to 6 hours. The topical version can be applied as needed, though it should not be used more than 4 times daily. Benadryl is an allergy medication that can be used to treat reactions in the body or on the skin. Due to the properties that affect the sinuses, this drug can also be used to treat the common cold or other non-bacterial sinus irritations. The drug can be administered multiple times a day with some restrictions.