A Bluetooth Dongle. Main article: Software protection dongle. A dongle is a small piece of hardware that attaches to a computer, TV, or other electronic device in order to enable additional functions such as copy protection, audio, video, games, data, or other services. These services are available only when the dongle is attached. The dongle may communicate wirelessly with the device it enables via NFC, for example. The term dongle originally addressed a software protection device. The construct is now more broadly used especially for. 1  licensing purposes,
This short video explains what a dongle is and uses examples to clarify the various types of dongle that are available for accessing the Internet. An dongle is a handy device used to connect a laptop or other mobile device to the internet. 
Memory Dongles. The most common type of dongle is a memory dongle, commonly referred to as a USB thumb drive, memory stick, or flash drive. Much like a hard drive or a memory card used in cameras or phones, a flash drive allows users to store files on the device and easily transport them. They are also known as USB dongles. They simply plug into a USB port of a device such as PC, laptop, or even a television or Blu-ray player. There are many different types of dongles. What each one does and how to use them often depends on the dongle type and on the manufacturer's software.
How to Use a Bluetooth Dongle. While some computers come with built-in Bluetooth connectivity, others require the use of a Bluetooth dongle.. Dongles are USB network adapters that allow a computer to communicate with Bluetooth devices such as mobile phones, mice, keyboards, remotes, and headsets. You can learn to connect a Bluetooth dongle to your computer, install and configure it using the steps below
Conclusion. A USB Wi-Fi adapter or dongle is used to connect a computer or laptop to a Wi-Fi network. If your computer does not have an integrated network card, this type of device lets you connect without the need to install a card in your computer. Adding a USB Wi-Fi adapter or dongle to a computer with an outdated integrated network card, for example a 802.11a card, is an easy, inexpensive way to upgrade the system. Remember to disable the onboard card before using the USB device, as the integrated adapter will keep running instead of the newly added one.
active oldest votes. up vote 10 down vote accepted. A dongle is a piece of hardware, now usually a USB device (in the past, they also connected to serial and LPT ports), that plugs into a computer to provide copy protection for a piece of software. As you can see, the term dongle applies to adapters, receivers, transmitters, and so on. In other words, it is just a term that applies to any sort of (usually small) external hardware peripheral that connects to the system (generally, wireless devices are not considered dongles).
The term dongle has expanded beyond software protection to include any small device that plugs into the Universal Serial Bus (USB) or other computer port, regardless of what it does. These devices are usually used to provide some function that is not built in to the computer itself. 10 most extreme places on Earth. A dongle is a piece of hardware that attaches to a computer and allows a piece of secured software to run. The device does not contain the software in its entirety, but rather is an electronic key that unlocks the program on a computer.
When used as a device attached to a computer or TV or gaming console, dongles can enable functions that would not be present without it. For example, a dongle attached to a TV may receive an encoded video stream, decode it in the dongle, and then present this audio and video information to the TV. When used as a software protection device, dongles mostly appear as two-interface security tokens with transient data flow that does not interfere with other dongle functions and a pull communication that reads security data from the dongle.
Please help improve this article if you can. (July 2009). A software protection dongle (commonly known as a dongle or key) is an electronic copy protection and content protection device which, when attached to a computer or other electronic appliance, unlocks software functionality or decodes content. When used as a software protection device, dongles mostly appear as two-interface security tokens with transient data flow that does not interfere with other dongle functions and a pull communication that reads security data from the dongle.