Byetta (exenatide) is an injectable diabetes medicine that helps control blood sugar levels. Exenatide is used to treat type 2 (non-insulin dependent) diabetes. Side effects of Byetta include nausea, vomiting, upset stomach, diarrhea, constipation, weight loss, loss of appetite, heartburn, dizziness, or headache. 
Exenatide (Byetta, Bydureon) and liraglutide (Victoza) are taken by injection, similar to insulin, but they're not insulin. These medications are in a class of drugs called incretin mimetics, which improve blood sugar control by mimicking the action of a hormone called glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). 1 Exenatide (Byetta, Bydureon). 2  The most common side effect of exenatide is mild to moderate nausea, which improves with time in most people. 3  Several cases of kidney problems, including kidney failure, have been reported in people who have taken exenatide.
BYETTA is an injectable prescription medicine that may improve blood sugar (glucose) control in adults with type 2 diabetes, when used with diet and exercise. BYETTA is not insulin and should not be taken instead of insulin. 1 If you have any symptoms of a severe allergic reaction, stop taking BYETTA and get medical help right away. 2  Do not share your BYETTA Pen with other people, even if the needle has been changed. 3  You may give other people a serious infection, or get a serious infection from them.
BYETTA can be used with Lantus ® (insulin glargine), which is a long-acting insulin, but should not be taken with short-and/or rapid-acting insulin. BYETTA should not be used in people with type 1 diabetes or people with diabetic ketoacidosis (a condition caused by very high blood sugar). BYETTA is not recommended for use in children. BYETTA has not been studied in people who have pancreatitis. How BYETTA Works. After you eat a meal, your blood sugar level goes up. When your body senses this rise in blood sugar, BYETTA (exenatide) injection helps enhance your body's ability to release its own insulin. When your body senses your blood sugar has come down, the release of insulin slows. BYETTA is taken by injection because its active ingredient is a protein
Byetta is used to help lower blood sugar levels in adults with type 2 diabetes by increasing insulin production after meals and by decreasing the amount of sugar produced by the liver. Byetta ® (exenatide) is an injectable prescription medication licensed to treat type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is the most common type of diabetes (see Diabetes Types) . It is also sometimes called adult-onset diabetes or noninsulin-dependent diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is a condition in which the cells of the body do not respond to insulin as well as they normally should.
1 Do not share your BYETTA Pen with other people, even if the needle has been changed. 2  You may give other people a serious infection, or get a serious infection from them. 3  Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) may happen, which may be severe and lead to death. 1 If you have any symptoms of a severe allergic reaction, stop taking BYETTA and get medical help right away. 2  Do not share your BYETTA Pen with other people, even if the needle has been changed. 3
If you have type 2 diabetes, a healthcare provider may prescribe Byetta to help lower blood sugar levels. Byetta ® (exenatide) is a prescription medication licensed to treat type 2 diabetes (also known as noninsulin-dependent diabetes or adult-onset diabetes). Although Byetta is taken by injection, it is not a form of insulin and is not intended to treat type 1 diabetes. The drug comes in the form of an injection
1 The most common side effects with BYETTA include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, feeling jittery, dizziness, headache, acid stomach, constipation, and weakness. 2  Nausea most commonly happens when first starting BYETTA, but may become less over time. 1 If you have any symptoms of a severe allergic reaction, stop taking BYETTA and get medical help right away. 2  Do not share your BYETTA Pen with other people, even if the needle has been changed. 3  You may give other people a serious infection, or get a serious infection from them.
Exenatide in its Byetta form is administered as a subcutaneous injection (under the skin) of the abdomen, thigh, or arm, any time within the 60 minutes before the first and last meal of the day. A once-weekly injection has been approved as of January 27, 2012 under the trademark Bydureon. 