Pioglitazone is used for treating type 2 diabetes in people who cannot lower blood sugar through lifestyle changes (such as weight loss, diet, and exercise). The drug is part of a group of diabetes medications called thiazolidinediones (or sometimes called glitazones). Pioglitazone Uses: An Overview. Pioglitazone hydrochloride (Actos ®) is a prescription medicine that has been licensed to treat type 2 diabetes. The drug can be used alone or in combination with other diabetes medications. Pioglitazone cannot be used to treat type 1 diabetes (see Actos and Type 1 Diabetes) .
Actos, a medicine that is only available by prescription, is used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Actos ® (pioglitazone hydrochloride) is a prescription medication that is used to treat type 2 diabetes (also known as noninsulin-dependent diabetes or adult-onset diabetes). The drug can be used alone or in combination with other diabetes medications. 
Pioglitazone is used for the treatment of diabetes mellitus type 2 either alone or in combination with a sulfonylurea, metformin, or insulin. There was, however, no statistically significant difference in the main outcomes studied. Pioglitazone cannot be used in patients with a known hypersensitivity to pioglitazone, other thiazolidinediones or any of components of its pharmaceutical forms. It is ineffective and possibly harmful in diabetes mellitus type 1 and diabetic ketoacidosis.
Be the first to review this Drug. Pioglitazone is the generic form of the prescription drug known by the brand name Actos. It's used along with diet and exercise to help lower blood sugar in people who have type 2 diabetes. When you have type 2 diabetes, your body doesn't make or use the hormone insulin normally, so it can't control the amount of sugar, or glucose, in the blood. Pioglitazone is in a class of drugs known as thiazolidinediones.
Pioglitazone may rarely cause liver disease. Tell your doctor right away if you develop symptoms of liver disease, including: dark urine, yellowing of eyes / skin, persistent nausea / vomiting, stomach / abdominal pain. Pioglitazone does not usually cause low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Proper control of diabetes may also lessen your risk of a heart attack or stroke. Pioglitazone is used either alone or in combination with other anti-diabetic medications (such as metformin or a sulfonylurea such as glyburide). Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of pioglitazone.
Pioglitazone (brand name Actos) is a prescription drug of the class thiazolidinedione (TZD) with hypoglycemic (antihyperglycemic, antidiabetic) action to treat diabetes. Actos was the tenth-best selling drug in the U.S. in 2008, with sales exceeding $2.4 billion. Pioglitazone cannot be used in patients with a known hypersensitivity to pioglitazone, other thiazolidinediones or any of components of its pharmaceutical forms. It is ineffective and possibly harmful in diabetes mellitus type 1 and diabetic ketoacidosis.
Pioglitazone is an anti-diabetic drug (thiazolidinedione-type, also called glitazones) used along with a proper diet and exercise program to control high blood sugar in patients with type 2 diabetes. It works by helping to restore your body's proper response to insulin, thereby lowering your blood sugar. Proper control of diabetes may also lessen your risk of a heart attack or stroke. Pioglitazone is used either alone or in combination with other anti-diabetic medications (such as metformin or a sulfonylurea such as glyburide). Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of pioglitazone.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Pioglitazone is an oral drug that reduces the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood. It is in a class of anti-diabetic drugs called thiazolidinediones that are used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The other member in this class is rosiglitazone (Avandia). Nevertheless, pioglitazone is approved for treating type 2 diabetes in combination with insulin as well as another class of diabetes drugs, the sulfonylureas, that increases the amount of insulin produced.
Page 39 of 42 MEDICATION GUIDE ACTOS (ak-TōS) (pioglitazone) tablets Read this Medication Guide carefully before you start taking ACTOS and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment. 