TCL：An Emerging Power in China’s Wave of Globalization. TCL stands for “The Creative Life,” a slogan that represents TCL’s aspirations of building one of China’s most innovative and resourceful enterprises. Founded in 1981, TCL is one of the largest consumer electronics enterprises in China with a global presence. TCL Corporation has three listed companies: TCL Corporation (SZ.000100), TCL Multimedia (HK.1070) and TCL Communication (HK.2618).
TCL was founded 32 years ago and while we currently sell only TVs in the US under the TCL brand name, we make a wide range of consumer electronics products and appliances like refrigerators, washers/dryers, air conditioners, blu-ray players, and cell phones in different regions across the world.
Scores in depth. TCL Roku TV is now on sale and proves to be a natural fit for the No. 1 Chinese television manufacturer's expansion into the Western marketplace. It joins the company, unfamiliar to many consumers outside of China, with the well-established Roku streaming platform.
Chris Larson, the vice president of sales and marketing for TCL in North America, explained to me that since the TV market has been flat lately, the most efficient companies survive. TCL makes its own screens, to better control cost and quality, and the Roku TVs are being made at a new manufacturing plant in Tijuana. TCL's Roku TV has a thin black bezel and a shiny but tastefully understated stand.
TCL comprises three listed companies: TCL Corporation (SZSE: 000100), which is listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, and TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings, Ltd. (SEHK: 1070) and TCL Communication Technology Holdings, Ltd. (SEHK: 2618), which are listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
TCL Corporation is a Chinese multinational electronics company headquartered in Huizhou, Guangdong province, China. It designs, develops, manufactures and sells products including television sets, mobile phones, air conditioners, washing machines, refrigerators and small electrical appliances.