1: The Life Cycle of Plasmodium). The vegetative, reproducing, feeding form of a protozoan is called a trophozoite (def). Under certain conditions, some protozoa produce a protective form called a cyst (def) that enable them to survive harsh environments. Cysts allow some pathogens to survive outside their host. Protozoa are unicellular eukaryotic microorganisms lacking a cell wall and belonging to the Kingdom Protista. Although there are nearly 20,000 species of protozoa, relatively few cause disease. Most inhabit soil and water.
Historically, protozoa were defined as single-celled organisms with animal-like behaviors, such as motility and predation. The group was regarded as the zoological counterpart to the  protophyta , which were considered to be plant-like, as they are capable of photosynthesis. The terms protozoa and protozoans are also used informally to designate single-celled, non-photosynthetic protists, such as ciliates, amoebae and flagellates. Familiar examples of protists with a pellicle are the euglenoids and the ciliate Paramecium. In some protozoa, the pellicle hosts epibiotic bacteria that adhere to the surface by their fimbriae or attachment pili .
troph·o·zo·ite. The ameboid, vegetative, asexual form of certain Sporozoea, such as the schizont of the plasmodia of malaria and related parasites. [tropho- + G. zōon, animal]. /tropho·zo·ite/ (-zo´īt) the active, motile feeding stage of a sporozoan parasite. 
When protozoa are in the form of trophozoites (Greek, tropho = to nourish), they actively feed. The conversion of a trophozoite to cyst form is known as encystation, while the process of transforming back into a trophozoite is known as excystation. Protozoa reproduce asexually by binary fission or multiple fission. Familiar examples of protists with a pellicle are the euglenoids and the ciliate Paramecium. In some protozoa, the pellicle hosts epibiotic bacteria that adhere to the surface by their fimbriae or attachment pili .
Medical Definition of TROPHOZOITE. : a protozoan of a vegetative form as distinguished from one of a reproductive or resting form. ADVERTISEMENT. troph- + zo- + 1-ite. First Known Use: circa 1909
The vegetative, reproducing, feeding form of a protozoan is called a trophozoite. Under certain conditions, some protozoa produce a protective form called a cyst that enable them to survive harsh environments. Cysts allow some pathogens to survive outside their host. Some protozoa can also reproduce sexually. 3. Relatively few protozoa cause disease. 4. The vegetative, reproducing, feeding form of a protozoan is called a trophozoite. 5. Under certain conditions, some protozoa produce a protective form called a cyst. 6. Components of protozoa that function as PAMPs include GPI-anchored proteins and mannose-rich glycans
Characteristics of Protozoa. The vegetative form is called a trophozoite. Asexual reproduction is by fission, budding, or schizogomy (multiple fission events followed by separation of the resulting multinucleated cell into multiple daughter cells). Sexual reproduction is by conjugation.
The ameboid, vegetative, asexual form of certain Sporozoea, such as the schizont of the plasmodia of malaria and related parasites. [tropho- + G. zōon, animal]. /tropho·zo·ite/ (-zo´īt) the active, motile feeding stage of a sporozoan parasite. [trof′əzō′īt]. Etymology: Gk, trophe + zoon, animal. an immature ameboid protozoon. Diseases in which trophozoites may be isolated by bacteriologic studies include amebic dysentery, malaria, and trichomonas vaginitis. When fully developed, a trophozoite may be identified as a schizont.
1. Protozoa are unicellular eukaryotic microorganisms lacking a cell wall and belonging to the Kingdom Protista. 2. Protozoa reproduce asexually by fission, schizogony, or budding. Some protozoa can also reproduce sexually. 3. Relatively few protozoa cause disease. 4. Protozoa are unicellular eukaryotic microorganisms lacking a cell wall and belonging to the Kingdom Protista. Although there are nearly 20,000 species of protozoa, relatively few cause disease. Most inhabit soil and water.