Examine the Gothic Elements in the Novel Wuthering Heights, by Emily Bronte. Brontë gothic literature originated and was very strong at the time of The Romantic Writers. Movement they were very popular and had authors such As Horace walpole who “Wrote The castle Of”, oranto and novels such “As” frankenstein “And“. dracula Examine the Gothic Elements in the Novel Wuthering Heights, by Emily Bronte. Brontë gothic literature originated and was very strong at the time of The Romantic Writers. movement
Gothic fiction, which is largely known by the subgenre of Gothic horror, is a genre or mode of literature that combines fiction, horror, death and Romanticism. Its origin is attributed to English author Horace Walpole, with his 1764 novel The Castle of Otranto, subtitled (in its second edition) A Gothic Story.. The effect of Gothic fiction feeds on a pleasing sort of terror, an extension of Romantic literary pleasures that were relatively new at the time of Walpole's novel.
Gothic Novels: Background and Origin. 'It was a dark and stormy night…' We all love a good ghost story or horror film, and these forms of entertainment share some characteristics with the Gothic literature genre, like ghosts, ghouls, and headless spirits that may haunt the main characters. 1 The Gothic novel is a genre associated with the mystery and intrigue surrounding the supernatural and the unknown. 2  Characteristics of the Gothic include: death and decay, haunted homes/castles, family curses, madness, powerful love/romance, ghosts, and vampires.
Characteristics of the Genre. Although inspired by Gothic literature, Southern Gothic does not dwell on suspense and the supernatural. Rather, there is a dark humor in the stories. It follows the idea of exposing the problems of society, but does so by developing complex characters. In this lesson, we will begin the definition of Southern Gothic Literature. We will then discuss the history of the genre, its characteristics and some of the key authors.
That which we classify as Gothic is a subgenre of the Romantic movement of the 19th century. Beginning in 1764 with Horace Walpole's novel The Castle of Otranto, the movement quickly grew to encompass a large body of works in novel, short story, poetic, artistic, dramatic, and (in the present day) cinematic forms. Originally, what we call Gothic in terms of architecture(generally the cathedrals of the 12th-14th centuries, or from about 1150-1350 +/-) was called the modern or French style by its contemporaries and was highly admired by all.
Gothic may or may not be scary. If it's Gothic and scary, you have Gothic horror. The first Gothic story (actually a novel) was written by Horace Walpole in England in 1764, a ghost story of sorts titled The Castle of Otranto. Its success began a thriving literary trend, first in England and then, by the nineteenth century, all over the world. 
His first novel, The Castle of Otranto, was published in 1764 and became an immediate success. The work was quickly popularized by other writers who tried to imitate his style; it wasn’t long before the Gothic was a distinguishable genre, with The Castle of Otranto being the first of its kind. Phillips 24 The Grotesque of the Gothic  20 min—The last two literature circle groups will give their presentations. Each group will be allotted 10 minutes to present.  30 min—The rest of class will be used to continue working on the multi-genre projects.
* Discuss the definition and specific traits of Gothic literature. * Examine specific themes typically found in Gothic works. * Discuss important works from this genre, which exemplify its themes and other traits. * Discuss Mary Shelley and the society in which she lived. * Read and understand the Preface, letters, and chapters 1-12 of Frankenstein. * Connect the novel with your own personal experiences and/or reactions to its themes. * Determine which features of this novel make it fit the Gothic genre.