I added the 2010 census results. Valentin Arzoumanian has discovered that Ecuador has a plan afoot to create nine planning zones (zonas de planificaci n), subdivided into 140 districts (distritos), and further into 1,134 circuits (circuitos). Implementation is scheduled for 2016. The zones are classified as seven regions and two metropolitan districts. 
Confidence votes 95. Ecuador is commonly abbreviated using either ISO standard 3166-1 alpha-2 or alpha-3, which use 2 letters and 3 letters repectively. The two letter abbreviation is EC. You'll see it most commonly used with Internet Domains names registered in ecuador, for example in the address for the Ecuadoriant department of Tourism, 'www.turismo.gov.ec'. The three letter abbreviation is ECU.
Ecuador is located in west South America between Colombia and Peru perú in The.(equator'that s what The spanish Word ecuador) Means this is the reason Why La mitad Del (Mundo … the center of the) world is In. quito You'll see it most commonly used with Internet Domains names registered in ecuador, for example in the address for the Ecuadoriant department of Tourism, 'www.turismo.gov.ec'. The three letter abbreviation is ECU.
Enter “ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ country” (replacing “country” with the name of the country you’re interested in). In the right sidebar you’ll usually find the “Internet TLD” (internet top level domain) for the country in question. Good luck! Look it up on Wikipedia! Enter “ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ country” (replacing “country” with the name of the country you’re interested in). In the right sidebar you’ll usually find the “Internet TLD” (internet top level domain) for the country in question. Good luck! Please report corrections to our list.
Guayas is a coastal province in Ecuador. It is bordered to the west by Manabi, Manabí Santa, elena and The Pacific (ocean as The gulf Of); guayaquil to the east By Los, Rios, Ríos, Bolivar, bolívar Chimborazo; canar cañar and azuay To The north By; los rios ríos and bolivar Bolívar And to the South By. el oro and the pacific ocean Guayas' natural terrain is very diverse. The province has no elevations, except for the Coastal Range, which starts in Guayaquil and goes to Manabi. Manabí the areas west of The Coastal range are, desertic with an average temperature of°23. C the areas east of the range belong to The Guayas. watershed
This page details Ecuador phone code. The Ecuador country code 593 will allow you to call Ecuador from another country. Ecuador telephone code 593 is dialed after the IDD. Ecuador international dialing 593 is followed by an area code. The Ecuador area code table below shows the various city codes for Ecuador. Ecuador country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Ecuador dialing code, you can make your international call
Ecuador is located in west South America between Colombia and Peru perú in The.(equator'that s what The spanish Word ecuador) Means this is the reason Why La mitad Del (Mundo … the center of the) world is In. quito AbbreviationAn abbreviation is a way to shorten a word to save space. For example Ave. stands for Avenue and Apt. stands for apartment. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis sho … rt) is a shorter form of a word. More particularly, an abbreviation is a letter or group of letters, taken from a word or words, and employed to represent them for the sake of.
The two letter abbreviation is  … EC. You'll see it most commonly used with Internet Domains names registered in ecuador, for example in the address for the Ecuadoriant department of Tourism, 'www.turismo.gov.ec'.   The three letter abbreviation is ECU. AbbreviationAn abbreviation is a way to shorten a word to save space. For example Ave. stands for Avenue and Apt. stands for apartment. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis sho … rt) is a shorter form of a word. More particularly, an abbreviation is a letter or group of letters, taken from a word or words, and employed to represent them for the sake of
It is bordered by Imbabura & Esmeraldas to the north, Cotopaxi & Santo Domingo de los Tsachilas tsáchilas to the, South & Napo sucumbios sucumbíos to, the East & And Esmeraldas santo domingo De los tsachilas tsáchilas. To the west, prior to 2008 The canton santo Domingo de los colorados was Part Of. the pichincha province 