Fruits and vegetables can be great sources of the following important nutrients. Click the links to see a list of fruits & veggies that carry the label of high and good sources for these nutrients. 1  Calcium: Calcium is essential for healthy bones and teeth. 2  It is also needed for normal functioning of muscles, nerves and some glands.
Vitamin A promotes healthy vision and skin, and aids immune function. Dark leafy greens and deep orange-yellow vegetables are the best sources of vitamin A. Examples include spinach, kale, broccoli, carrots, sweet potatoes and pumpkin. Vegetables are excellent sources of fiber, folate, potassium, vitamins A and C and iron. The health benefits obtained from a eating a vegetable-rich diet are numerous. Research points to lower risks for heart disease, stroke, obesity, kidney stones, certain cancers, type 2 diabetes and bone loss disorders. Common nutrients found in vegetables include fiber, folate, potassium, vitamin A, vitamin C and iro
Vitamin A is essential for proper immune function, reproduction, healthy vision and cell growth. Fruits and vegetables that contain significant amounts of this vitamin include sweet potatoes, carrots, spinach, cantaloupe, mangoes, bell peppers, apricots, black-eyed peas and broccoli. Folate. Fruits and vegetables often contain folate, a B-vitamin you need for forming DNA and limiting the risk of neural tube birth defects. Consuming vegetables like Brussels sprouts, asparagus, black-eyed peas, spinach, broccoli, avocado, peas, lettuce and kidney beans will help you increase your folate intake.
Your body needs a little dietary fat to absorb some of the vitamins found in dark green leafy vegetables. Add a bit of oil (such as olive or canola oil) or salad dressing to your dark green leafy vegetables to make sure your body absorbs all of the vitamins you eat. Research studies suggest that the nutrients found in dark green leafy vegetables may prevent certain types of cancers and promote heart health. It’s recommended that teens eat at least 3 cups of dark green vegetables per week, or about ½ a cup every day.
~~ Vegetables Chart ~~. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins
Fruits and vegetables that are particularly good sources of potassium include apricots, bananas, sweet potatoes, cantaloupe, celery, potatoes, beans, tomatoes, spinach and winter squash. Fruits and vegetables often contain folate, a B-vitamin you need for forming DNA and limiting the risk of neural tube birth defects. Folate. Fruits and vegetables often contain folate, a B-vitamin you need for forming DNA and limiting the risk of neural tube birth defects. Consuming vegetables like Brussels sprouts, asparagus, black-eyed peas, spinach, broccoli, avocado, peas, lettuce and kidney beans will help you increase your folate intake.
Some of the best sources of this vitamin include grapefruit, oranges, cantaloupes, kiwi fruit, papaya, mango, pineapple, watermelon, berries, broccoli, tomatoes, winter squash, green leafy vegetables, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, potatoes, sweet potatoes and bell peppers. Folate. Fruits and vegetables often contain folate, a B-vitamin you need for forming DNA and limiting the risk of neural tube birth defects. Consuming vegetables like Brussels sprouts, asparagus, black-eyed peas, spinach, broccoli, avocado, peas, lettuce and kidney beans will help you increase your folate intake.
Vitamin A, also called retinol, is essential for eye and skin health. Vitamin A is an antioxidant, helping your body fight free radicals that can cause tissue and cell damage. Vitamin A is found in vegetables and fruits such as carrots, broccoli, kale, pumpkin, sweet potatoes, cantaloupe and red peppers. B Vitamins. B vitamins, such as folate, niacin, riboflavin and thiamin, reduce heart disease and stroke, ease stress, alleviate depression, help the nervous system and help break down carbohydrates. B Vitamins can be found in bananas, lentils, chili peppers, dark leafy vegetables, berries and beans. email.