Voice and Data Cabling Average Costs. You can expect to pay anywhere from $100 up to $500 per drop for voice and data cabling installation. Many companies will charge you a single price for the entire project (for example, $20,000 to install 75 drops). Generally, the bigger the project, the more your price will come down when getting competitive bids.
Rich, Thank you for your question. That is a fairly small size for an office building, which puts upwards pressure on the price per square foot. While the chart would suggest a cost in the neighborhood of $160 per square foot, the small square footage could easily push you up into the $200 per square-foot range. The data for this year indicates a $15-$30 per square foot or approximately 13% increase in construction cost over last year, depending on region. Note that over twenty stories starts getting into more unique building characteristics that will drive costs in various ways
1 A California MIS operator paid around $14,000 for a new system with 150 drops using 5e wiring. 2  A Georgia telecom company paid roughly $7,000 for 58 new voice and 51 new data runs. 3  One Arizona programmer paid $75 per hour, in addition to travel and material costs, for a cable installation upgrade. You can expect to pay anywhere from $100 up to $500 per drop for voice and data cabling installation. Many companies will charge you a single price for the entire project (for example, $20,000 to install 75 drops). Generally, the bigger the project, the more your price will come down when getting competitive bids.
1 The actual cost of office building wiring depends not only on the total number of drops, but also the number of face-plates, patch panels, network racks, and switches required in addition to installation, set-up, activation, and testing charges. Voice and data wiring is a highly technical and job-specific matter that should be discussed in detail with a data cabling company. The following information is only meant to provide you with a basic idea of how network cabling works and what should be considered before a new installation.
The cost of cabling is a significant part--from 5% to 20%--of the overall communications costs. Both new cabling installations and upgrades can run from $2 to $5 per square foot and, for technologically intensive applications, increase to $50 per square foot. The building accommodated securities-processing operations that were being relocated from New York City to New Jersey. The typical per-square-foot cost for this technically intensive cabling project is $5 to $6
1 To see how cabling costs are broken down, check out this quote for a 40,000 square foot office with 222 drops. 2  The total cost came to $26,000; more than $10,000 was in labor charges alone. Voice and data wiring is a highly technical and job-specific matter that should be discussed in detail with a data cabling company. The following information is only meant to provide you with a basic idea of how network cabling works and what should be considered before a new installation.
The cost of cabling to cat6 is $250 for every one thousand feet. For this discussion we will look at the costs of installing ten lines of Cat6 (with an average of 200 feet per line) the average home office to such service. The project parameters indicate that roughly $500 of cable is required, and the average electrician costs will be roughly $50 per point of connection-meaning that another $500 will be necessary for proper installation.
Compare Office Building Wiring Prices. Fast, dependable data and voice cabling is a must in today’s information-driven business world. Cabling problems—one of the leading causes of network problems—cost companies millions of dollars annually. Voice and data wiring is a highly technical and job-specific matter that should be discussed in detail with a data cabling company. The following information is only meant to provide you with a basic idea of how network cabling works and what should be considered before a new installation.
For the most common office building size, two to four stories tall, the range is from just over $140 per square foot in Winston-Salem to over $240 per square foot in New York – Note that this is over $10 per square foot more than last year. The data for this year indicates a $15-$30 per square foot or approximately 13% increase in construction cost over last year, depending on region. Note that over twenty stories starts getting into more unique building characteristics that will drive costs in various ways