Chronic microangiopathic disease-this means problems with the tiny blood vessels (micro = small, angio = blood vessel, path/pathology = diseased) that is chronic (long-standing) as opposed to acute (like in a sudden stroke). This is common as we age-the tiny blood vessels get a bit stiff, crackly, sometimes blocked. Best Answer: Mild atrophy-the brain is slightly shrunken compared with the normal appearance of a 20 or 30 year old brain. If you are in your 50s or above, mild atrophy is pretty much normal, and if you're in your 70s or above it's very good!
Microangiopathy (or microvascular disease, or small vessel disease) is an angiopathy (i.e.disease of blood vessels) affecting small blood vessels in the body. It can be contrasted to macroangiopathy. Age-related and hypertension-related small vessel diseases and cerebral amyloid angiopathy are the most common forms. Small vessel coronary disease is a type of coronary heart disease (CHD) that affects the heart's arterioles and capillaries.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Involutional microangiopathic changes is a medical phrase used by neuroradiologists to describe the typical changes seen in cerebral white matter as we age. An analogy would be to use a medical phrase to describe typical skin changes seen with aging such wrinkles or age spots. Brain atrophy is, essentially, the shrinking of the brain. This is due to the loss of brain cells. White matter ischemic changes are a product of aging. Both are seen in patie … nts with dementia.
Less blood flow means that the brain tissue can be irreversibly injured, which is referred to as ischemic injury.. Some MRI reports may state that perivascular chronic ischemic white matter disease of aging is seen. We do know that we see increasing amount of these changes with age and see greater amounts of change in patients who have high blood pressure and diabetes. White matter change is a very common finding on an MRI scan. Frequently, these changes are seen in patients who have/have had hypertension, stroke, migraine headaches, or other medical conditions.
Microangiopathic ischemic changes means ischemia due to small blood vessels. Detailed Answer: Hello XXXXXXX. Microangiopathic ischemic changes in the white matter means ischemic(decreased blood supply and oxygenation due to involvement of small blood vessels)changes in white matter of brain. 
In medicine (hematology) microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) is a microangiopathic subgroup of hemolytic anemia (loss of red blood cells through destruction) caused by factors in the small blood vessels. It is identified by the finding of anemia and schistocytes on microscopy of the blood film. 
Chronic microangiopathic disease-this means problems with the tiny blood vessels (micro = small, angio = blood vessel, path/pathology = diseased) that is chronic (long-standing) as opposed to acute (like in a sudden stroke). 
[mī′krō·an′jē·op′əthē]. Etymology: Gk, mikros + angeion, vessel, pathos, disease. a disease of the small blood vessels. Examples are diabetic microangiopathy, in which the basement membrane of capillaries thickens, and thrombotic microangiopathy, in which thrombi form in the arterioles and capillaries. microangiopathy. a disorder involving the small blood vessels. cerebrospinal microangiopathy. in pigs is manifested by depression, incoordination, aimless wandering, circling and wasting.
Involutional microangiopathic changes is a medical phrase used by neuroradiologists to describe the typical changes seen in cerebral white matter as we age. An analogy would b … e to use a medical phrase to describe typical skin changes seen with aging such wrinkles or age spots. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Chronic microangiopathic ischemic changes are areas of the brain that show up during radiology, usually MRIs, that depict clotted off or ruptured blood vessels. These are usually related to other serious conditions, such as diabetes, hypertension, and high cholesterol