1 In order to take a wrist shot the puck should be between the heel and middle of the blade. 2  While you are executing the wrist shot the puck will roll forwards toward the toe of your stick. How to take a Wrist Shot Video. In this video I take you through the steps of the first type of wrist shot you should learn. When taking a wrist shot you can transfer your weight onto the foot closest to the blade of your stick, or the one furthest from the blade of your stick.
To get the most power out of the wrist shot, use your whole body!. That includes using your back skates inside edge to push off the ice and help generate more power. By pulling the puck back into your hockey stance, you’ll find your using: 1  Your back leg. 2  Your core. You’ll want the puck around the back portion of the sticks blade. You’ll also need to cradle the puck using the blade of the stick, this will help get the puck in that sweet spot and help it lift off the ice and spin. Notice how in the image above and below the hockey stick blade is cradling the puck.
How To Take A Wrist Shot. The wrist shot is a quick, accurate shot and depending on your upper body strength, can be a very powerful shot. The key to the wrist shot is getting the shot off before the defender can block or deflect the puck and/or before the goaltender knows it is coming. For the wrist shot advanced shooters will position the puck on the back third of the blade. When the shot is released, the puck rolls toward the toe of the blade causing a spin on the puck, which provides a faster and more accurate shot.
A wrist shot is a type of hockey shot that involves using arm muscles (especially those in the wrist and forearm) to propel a puck forward from the concave side of the blade of a hockey stick. Generally, when the puck is shot in a similar manner using the convex side of the blade, it is referred to as a backhand shot. Conversely, the reliance on wrist and forearm muscles to propel the puck causes the wrist shot to be less powerful than the slap shot, though this is not true for all players, even those with big shots . Transfer of bodyweight and the flex of a hockey stick are also key factors for a wrist shot.
Check out this instructional hockey video that demonstrates how to take a wrist shot. Wrist shots in hockey are fundamental striking shots. Learn ice hockey skills and moves in this sports video on how to play hockey. Take action and remember these tips: Bend knees. Hands 10 to 15 inches apart. 
1 Location of Puck on the Blade of the Stick. 2  In order to take a wrist shot the puck should be between the heel and middle of the blade. 3  While you are executing the wrist shot the puck will roll forwards toward the toe of your stick. How to take a Wrist Shot Video. In this video I take you through the steps of the first type of wrist shot you should learn. When taking a wrist shot you can transfer your weight onto the foot closest to the blade of your stick, or the one furthest from the blade of your stick.
Visit http://howtohockey.com for more hockey tips. Join our Facebook Page: http://www.facebook.com/howtohockey. In this video we give you a step by step breakdown of the wrist shot. You can use these tips to learn how to take a wrist shot or how to improve your shot. 
1 How to execute the Wrist Shot. 2  To take the wrist shot have the puck drawn back, your hands in the proper position, and the puck near the heel of the blade of the stick. 3  When you are properly set up begin to take the wrist shot, pull the puck towards the net with the blade of the stick. How to take a Wrist Shot Video. In this video I take you through the steps of the first type of wrist shot you should learn. When taking a wrist shot you can transfer your weight onto the foot closest to the blade of your stick, or the one furthest from the blade of your stick.