song. In the town where I was born, Lived a man who sailed the sea. And he told us of his life, In the land of submarines. So we sailed on to the sun, Till we found the sea of green, And we lived beneath the waves, In our yellow submarine. We all live in a yellow submarine, Yellow submarine, yellow submarine, We all live in a yellow submarine, Yellow submarine, yellow submarine, And our friends are all aboard, Many more of them live next door, And the band begins to play. We all live in a yellow submarine, Yellow submarine, yellow submarine, We all live in a yellow submarine, Yellow submarine, yellow submarine, As we live a life of ease, Ev'ryone of us has all we need, Sky of blue and sea of green, In our yellow submarine.
(The rest of the album was filled out with Yellow Submarine, All You Need Is Love, and a George Martin score.) What's more, two of the four new tracks were little more than pleasant throwaways that had been recorded during 1967 and early 1968. The album would have been far better value if it had been released as a four-song EP (an idea the Beatles even considered at one point, with the addition of a bonus track in Across the Universe but ultimately discarded).
AllMusic Review by Richie Unterberger. The only Beatles album that could really be classified as inessential, mostly because it wasn't really a proper album at all, but a soundtrack that only utilized four new Beatles songs. The album would have been far better value if it had been released as a four-song EP (an idea the Beatles even considered at one point, with the addition of a bonus track in Across the Universe but ultimately discarded).
It became the title song of the 1968 animated United Artists film, also called Yellow Submarine, and the soundtrack album to the film, released as part of the Beatles' music catalogue. Although intended as a nonsense song for children, Yellow Submarine received various social and political interpretations at the time. The song began as being about different coloured submarines, but evolved to include only a yellow one. In 1980, Lennon talked about the song: 'Yellow Submarine' is Paul's baby. Donovan helped with the lyrics. I helped with the lyrics too. We virtually made the track come alive in the studio, but based on Paul's inspiration
The album contains six songs by the Beatles, of which  Yellow Submarine  and . All You Need Is Love  had previously been released as singles. The remainder of the album was a re-recording of the film's orchestral soundtrack by the band's producer, George Martin. For the 1999 release, see Yellow Submarine Songtrack. Yellow Submarine is the tenth studio album by the English rock band the Beatles, released on 13 January 1969 in the United States and on 17 January 1969 in the United Kingdom. It was issued as the soundtrack to the animated film of the same name, which premiered in London in July 1968
A 51 feet (16 m) long yellow submarine metal sculpture was built by apprentices from the Cammell Laird shipyard, and was used as part of Liverpool's International Garden Festival in 1984. The song began as being about different coloured submarines, but evolved to include only a yellow one. In 1980, Lennon talked about the song: 'Yellow Submarine' is Paul's baby. Donovan helped with the lyrics. I helped with the lyrics too. We virtually made the track come alive in the studio, but based on Paul's inspiration
Yellow Submarine  is a 1966 song by the Beatles, written by Paul McCartney (credited to Lennon–McCartney), with lead vocals by Ringo Starr. It was included on the Revolver album and issued as a single, coupled with  Eleanor Rigby . The song began as being about different coloured submarines, but evolved to include only a yellow one. In 1980, Lennon talked about the song: 'Yellow Submarine' is Paul's baby. Donovan helped with the lyrics. I helped with the lyrics too. We virtually made the track come alive in the studio, but based on Paul's inspiration