This article is about a type of fish. For other uses, see Swordfish (disambiguation) . Swordfish (Xiphias gladius; from Greek ξίφος: sword, and Latin gladius: sword), also known as broadbills in some countries, are large, highly migratory, predatory fish characterized by a long, flat bill. Mainly, the swordfish relies on its great speed and agility in the water to catch its prey. It is undoubtedly among the fastest fish, but the basis for the frequently quoted speed of 97 km/h (60 mph) is unreliable.
Swordfish are elongated, round-bodied, and lose all teeth and scales by adulthood. These fish are found widely in tropical and temperate parts of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans, and can typically be found from near the surface to a depth of 550 m (1,800 ft). Mainly, the swordfish relies on its great speed and agility in the water to catch its prey. It is undoubtedly among the fastest fish, but the basis for the frequently quoted speed of 97 km/h (60 mph) is unreliable.
Swordfish gloves are a reward that can be purchased with 200 tokens from the Fist of Guthix minigame or from Stanley Limelight for 80 thaler. They require a Fishing level of 65 to wear (this can not be achieved by using boosts, e.g. Admiral pie). 
The Swordfish was also capable of operating as a dive-bomber and in 1939 HMS Glorious used her Swordfish for a series of dive-bombing trials, during which 439 practice bombs were dropped at dive angles of 60, 67 and 70 degrees, against the target ship HMS Centurion. There were also three flights of Swordfish equipped with floats, for use off aircraft catapult-equipped warships. One from HMS Warspite spotted fall of shot and radioed gunnery corrections back to the ship during the Second Battle of Narvik in 1940, and subsequently sank the U-boat U-64.
Contrary to popular belief, the sword is not used to spear, but instead may be used to slash at its prey to injure the prey animal, to make for an easier catch. Mainly, the swordfish relies on its great speed and agility in the water to catch its prey. It is undoubtedly among the fastest fish, but the basis for the frequently quoted speed of 97 km/h (60 mph) is unreliable.
This article is about the cooked version. For the raw version, see Raw swordfish. For the item used in the quest Hunt for Red Raktuber, see Swordfish (Hunt for Red Raktuber) . A swordfish is a type of fish that players can catch, cook, and use as food. They are considered the best healing food in free-to-play because they can heal up to 1400 life points in one bite. Fionella keeps a stock of 10 on the 1st 2nd floor of the Legends' Guild
Full Definition of SWORD. 1. : a weapon (as a cutlass or rapier) with a long blade for cutting or thrusting that is often used as a symbol of honor or authority. 2. a: an agency or instrument of destruction or combat. 3. : coercive power. 4. : something that resembles a sword. — sword·like \-ˌlīk\ adjective. 
The Fairey Swordfish was a biplane torpedo bomber designed by the Fairey Aviation Company, used by the Fleet Air Arm of the Royal Navy during World War II. There were also three flights of Swordfish equipped with floats, for use off aircraft catapult-equipped warships. One from HMS Warspite spotted fall of shot and radioed gunnery corrections back to the ship during the Second Battle of Narvik in 1940, and subsequently sank the U-boat U-64.
Xiphias gladius. Swordfish is the common name for a large, highly migratory, predatory marine fish, Xiphias gladius, characterized by a long, flat bill, the lack of pelvic fins, and an absence of scales and teeth in adults. Adult swordfish forage includes pelagic fish, including small tuna, dorado, barracuda, flying fish, and mackerel, as well as benthic species of hake and rockfish. Squid are important when available.
Marinated swordfish. Swordfish is a particularly popular fish for cooking. Since swordfish are large animals, meat is usually sold as steaks, which are often grilled. The color of the flesh varies by diet, with fish caught on the east coast of North America often being rosier. Adult swordfish forage includes pelagic fish, including small tuna, dorado, barracuda, flying fish, and mackerel, as well as benthic species of hake and rockfish. Squid are important when available.