Going gorge walking is no simple nature ramble, this is the chance to enjoy some exhilarating climbing, diving and sliding as you work your way through natural gorges, canyons and coasts, taking in some of the UK's most spectacular scenery as you go. 
This could explain why the south wall of the gorge is vertical, while the north wall is steep, but much more gentle that the south. The slope of the north wall approximates the dip of the bedrock. This is best seen from a viewpoint near the base of the gorge and on the trail along the south rim. One holds that the stream began in a fault. Faults are cracks in the Earth's crust in which rock on one side moves in relation to the other side. On either side of the crack the rock layers no longer line up.
As the bedrock in the area of the gorge finally came to rest as it is today the layers of the bedrock were not parallel to the Earth's surface but rather sloped downward at about a 4- degree angle to the south. One holds that the stream began in a fault. Faults are cracks in the Earth's crust in which rock on one side moves in relation to the other side. On either side of the crack the rock layers no longer line up.
Spectacular Cheddar Gorge. Explore Britain's biggest gorge from the dramatic cliffs rising 450ft to the stunning stalactite caverns. This world-famous site is an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, reveals many fascinating stories of our prehistoric ancestors, and is an international centre for caving and rock climbing. A great day out for families, nature and history lovers, and outdoor adventurers.
The gorge is a naturally occurring geologic phenomenon located along Rt. 9 in Chesterfield, NH. Geologists have three theories about the possible formation of Chesterfield Gorge. One holds that the stream began in a fault. Faults are cracks in the Earth's crust in which rock on one side moves in relation to the other side. On either side of the crack the rock layers no longer line up.
Cheddar is a gorge lying on the southern edge of the Mendip Hills. The maximum depth of the gorge is 137 m (449 ft), with a near-vertical cliff-face to the south, and steep grassy slopes to the north. The B3135 road runs along the bottom of the gorge.
Visitor Information. The Tar Tunnel is one of the ten Ironbridge Gorge Museums. Step inside the Tar Tunnel and discover where miners digging in 1787 struck a spring of natural bitumen which has oozed out of the walls for over 200 years. 1  Ticket Prices. 2  What's On. 
Alderley Edge is a village and civil parish in Cheshire, England. In 2011, it had a population of 4,638. Alderley Edge is 6 miles (10 km) northwest of Macclesfield and 15 miles (24 km) south of Manchester. It is situated at the base of a steep and thickly wooded sandstone ridge, Alderley Edge, which is the area's chief topographical feature and overlooks the Cheshire Plain. Alderley Edge is well known for its affluence and expensive houses, falling inside Cheshire's Golden Triangle. Alderley Edge has a selection of cafes and designer shops and has attracted numerous Premier League footballers, actors and multi-millionaire businesspeople
or enter a location or select region/city. to. Include all date ranges or enter a date range. Mt. Hood is the highest point in Oregon, not so much a mountain as an active volcano and the crown jewel of the Columbia River Gorge, an area seemingly designed by the gods of outdoor recreation. Mt. Hood’s slopes beg to be climbed, skied, snowboarded and hiked. 
Cheddar Gorge is a limestone gorge in the Mendip Hills, near the village of Cheddar, Somerset, England. The maximum depth of the gorge is 137 m (449 ft), with a near-vertical cliff-face to the south, and steep grassy slopes to the north. The B3135 road runs along the bottom of the gorge.