Twenty-dollar bills have an average life span of slightly over two years. At this point, due to wear and tear, we must be replaced. As a rule, my cousins the $1, $5 and $10 bills last between 1.3 and 1.8 years as they are used more and perhaps not cared for as much. When we become worn from so much use, the Federal Reserve takes us out of circulation, replacing us with brand new bills and the circle of life continues.
Trace amounts of cocaine has been found on nearly every dollar bill in circulation. And its average life cycle is only 21 months. And they churn out over 16 million a day. All right, I give up. It's all the biggest surprise. 
As I cited earlier, “the lifespan of a dollar bill” info below is suspect. It makes me question the rest of the infographic, and really any other infographic I read. Even still, the “facts” below on how long do dollar bills last are still pretty interesting, if they hold to be true. Even stranger: the company that puts the infographic below together sites the Federal Reserve as a source (click on The Lifespan of a One Dollar Bill Infographic yourself to see). Further, you’ll see that they have very different numbers for how long dollar bills last.
According to the US Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the average life of a $1 bill is now 42 months. Improvements in the production process have increased that from a previou … s 18 to 24 month lifespan. 4 people found this useful. According the Bureau of Printing & Engraving, the average lifespan of a $100 bill is about 22 years.
What is the average lifespan of a 100 dollar bill? According to the latest data from the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, a US $100 bill remains in circulation for about 15.0 years before it has to be replaced. According the Bureau of Printing & Engraving, the average lifespan of a $100 bill is about 22 years.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average dollar bill has a life span of about 18-22 months. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $1 bill in circulation is 21 months before it is replaced due to wear. According the Bureau of Printing & Engraving, the average lifespan of a $100 bill is about 22 years.
Travels. With about $892 billion in circulation, you can imagine that the other $20 bills and I do a lot of traveling. According to Where's George, $1 Serial # D77------L Series 1995 traveled 1,191 miles in one year, 156 days, 5 hours 27 minutes, an average of 2.3 net miles per day. Just imagine the things that dollar saw. As a rule, my cousins the $1, $5 and $10 bills last between 1.3 and 1.8 years as they are used more and perhaps not cared for as much. When we become worn from so much use, the Federal Reserve takes us out of circulation, replacing us with brand new bills and the circle of life continues.
The twenty-dollar gold coin was known as a  double eagle . Rather than a nickname, this nomenclature was specified by an act of Congress. As of December 2012, the average circulation life of a $20 bill is 7.7 years before it is replaced due to wear. Approximately 11% of all notes printed in 2009 were $20 bills. Twenty-dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in violet straps. The twenty-dollar bill in the past was referred to as a double-sawbuck because it is twice the value of a ten-dollar bill, which was nicknamed a sawbuck due to the resemblance the Roman numeral for ten (X) bears to the legs of a sawbuck, although this usage had largely fallen out of favor by the 1980s.
Below you'll find the average cost of life insurance broken out by number of years on the policy. Unsurprisingly so, the longer the policy term the more expensive it is. Average policy costs range from $568 per year for a 10 year term policy to $1,528 for a 30 year term policy. 