A distraught fan weeps on the pitch | PA. The Heysel stadium disaster in 1985 is an event which continues to cause understandable pain for Juventus fans, as their European Cup triumph over Liverpool faded into inconsequence as 39 lives perished. 
But questions undoubtedly remain about the Heysel Stadium disaster, in which 39 spectators – 32 from Italy, four from Belgium, two from France, one from Northern Ireland – were killed in a stampede before the 1985 European Cup final between Liverpool and Juventus. 
On 29 May, 1985, 39 football fans died during violent clashes between Liverpool and Juventus supporters at the European Cup final in Brussels. As a result of the disaster at Heysel Stadium, UEFA banned English clubs from taking part in European football for five years, with Liverpool serving an extra year. For lifelong Liverpool fan Chris Rowland, the events of that night are as clear today as they were 25 years ago. I remember all of it, he said.
The Heysel disaster. The Heysel disaster of 29 May, 1985, led to the deaths of 39 fans and a five-year blanket ban on English clubs in European football.
18 photos: The Heysel stadium disaster. Heysel horror – Thirty-nine fans -- 32 from Italy, four from Belgium, two from France, one from Northern Ireland, the youngest just 11 years old -- were killed in a stampede before the European Cup final between Liverpool and Juventus at the Heysel Stadium in May 1985. 18 photos: The Heysel stadium disaster. Cannavaro respect – Former Juve defender Fabio Cannavaro attended a memorial ceremony for the victims of the Heysel stadium disaster prior to a friendly international between Italy and Mexico in Brussels on June 3, 2010 -- the 25th anniversary of the tragedy.
464 pages on this wiki. The Heysel Stadium disaster was a human disaster that occurred on 29 May 1985 at the Heysel Stadium, Brussels prior to the 1985 European Cup final between Liverpool and Juventus. 39 Juventus fans lost their lives during the incident with a further 600 injured, which has had a substantial impact on European football. The Heysel Stadium was a controversial selection for host of the European Cup final. The stadium was, at the time, 55 years old and in need of redevelopment. Much of the stadium's structures were weak, fans without tickets could even be seen kicking holes in the cinderblock walls to gain access to matches.
Heysel Stadium Disaster. It is incongruous to attempt to draw a parallel between the two disasters, given that the cause of Heysel was hooliganism. However, if there was one common denominator, it concerned the inadequate crowd arrangements.. - Alan Hansen. On the 29th May 1985 Liverpool F.C played Juventus F.C(Italy) in the European Cup Final held at the Heysel Stadium in Brussels, Belgium. The events prior to the match ensured that the match would prove insignificant
Despite its status as Belgium's national stadium, the Heysel Stadium was in a poor state of repair by the time of the 1985 European Final. The 55-year-old stadium had not been sufficiently maintained for several years, and large parts of the stadium were literally crumbling. Fans already standing near the wall were crushed; eventually the wall collapsed. Many people climbed over to safety, but many others died or were badly injured. The game was played despite the disaster in order to prevent further violence, with Juventus winning 1–0.
In May 2012 a Heysel Memorial was unveiled in the J-Museum at Turin. There is also a tribute to the disaster's victims in the club's Walk of Fame in front of the Juventus Stadium. Two years latter Juventus' officials announced a memorial in the Continassa headquarter. Fans already standing near the wall were crushed; eventually the wall collapsed. Many people climbed over to safety, but many others died or were badly injured. The game was played despite the disaster in order to prevent further violence, with Juventus winning 1–0.
The Heysel Stadium disaster (. [ˈɦɛizəl] ; Dutch: Heizeldrama; French: Drame du Heysel) occurred on 29 May 1985 when escaping fans were pressed against a collapsing wall in the Heysel Stadium in Brussels, Belgium, before the start of the 1985 European Cup Final between Juventus of Italy and Liverpool of England. Fans already standing near the wall were crushed; eventually the wall collapsed. Many people climbed over to safety, but many others died or were badly injured. The game was played despite the disaster in order to prevent further violence, with Juventus winning 1–0.