Pono (. [ˈpono]) is a Hawaiian word commonly rendered as  righteousness . For instance, the Hawaii state motto: Ua Mau ke Ea o ka ʻĀina i ka Pono or The life of the land is perpetuated in righteousness. Pono is a notably polysemous term. Mary Kawena Pukui 's and Samuel Hoyt Elbert 's Hawaiian dictionary gives six meanings and 83 English translation equivalents. 1  nvs.
Answer by Puckbunny. Confidence votes 550. The word `pono` in the Hawaiian language is referred to most popularly as 'righteousness'. As is stated in the Hawaii state motto: `Ua Mau ke Ea o ka AEA'¬äâ ina i Ka` (pono translated directly: as the life of the land is perpetuated in). righteousness The two words that you needed translated, kuleana  which has multiple meanings, in the old Hawaiian days it meant  land divisions and can also represent your space or sp … irituality.  The next word is pono  and that means to make correct/to make good.
In the Hawaiian thought, being pono means being in perfect alignment and balance with all things in life. It means one has the perfect relationship with the creative energy of the universe, however you might describe that energy: God, Goddess, prana, mana, chi-whatever that appellation is for you. Pono means you are in complete harmony and alignment with your custodial relationship with the earth. That you operate on the earthly plane as one who is the caretaker of the land during your lifetime.
The word `pono` in the Hawaiian language is referred to most popularly as 'righteousness'. As is stated in the Hawaii state motto: `Ua Mau ke Ea o ka AEA'¬äâ ina i Ka` (pono translated directly: as the life of the land is perpetuated in). Righteousness, however the word is often used to mean, correct, honorable or. good The two words that you needed translated, kuleana  which has multiple meanings, in the old Hawaiian days it meant  land divisions and can also represent your space or sp … irituality.  The next word is pono  and that means to make correct/to make good.
Aloha. Answer; OK, you are not going to like this. Because many Hawai`ian words are conceptual and not confined to 'one' preset, determined definition, one word can have many meanings, or be used in many contexts. Pono is one of those words. Some of its meanings are listed. More meanings may be found, if you look at the concept of the definition word and not just its meaning