1 Try changing your access point to use 5 Ghz or a lower 2.4 GHz channel. 2  Any other wireless devices that operate in the 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz bandwidth &lpar;microwaves, cameras, baby monitors, neighbors' wireless devices, and so on&rpar;.
Bluetooth radiation is emitted from all Bluetooth Headsets and Technologies and is a type of wireless radio wave frequency (RF) also known as microwave radiation. Microwave frequencies have a short wavelength and a rapid rate of oscillation.
Bluetooth networking transmits data via low-power radio waves. It communicates on a frequency of 2.45 gigahertz (actually between 2.402 GHz and 2.480 GHz, to be exact). This frequency band has been set aside by international agreement for the use of industrial, scientific and medical devices (ISM).
Bluetooth is a technology that makes short-range wireless connections between devices (such as your Mac and your mouse or keyboard) at distances up to 10 meters (33 feet). For more information on Bluetooth, see the official Bluetooth website.
And, I don't make the absolutely false claim that Bluetooth devices don't emit microwave radiation. They do precisely that. In fact, they use the same band that your microwave oven uses. Yes, anon25117, you need to do your research and see that Bluetooth operates in the 2.4 GHz band, not 1-2 GHz. By the way, that band is chosen because it excites water molecules so well. Our bodies are approximately 90 percent water.
When microwaves are absorbed by food containing water, it causes the water molecules to vibrate. This produces heat. Microwaves do not use x-rays or gamma rays, and they do not make food radioactive. Microwave ovens can cook food, but do not otherwise change the chemical or molecular structure of it.
Sources of interference. 1  Microwave ovens: Using your microwave oven near your computer, Bluetooth device, or Wi-Fi base station may cause interference. 2  Direct Satellite Service &lpar;DSS&rpar;: The coax cable and connectors used with certain types of satellite dishes
Microwave ovens also use the same 2.4GHz spectrum as Bluetooth, but use a very high power signal that heats food. This high power signal can make it difficult for the Bluetooth signals to be received correctly and will result in audio static or slower Bluetooth data connections.
Bluetooth Technology uses the same microwave radiation to transmit data as cell phones do to receive and send calls. The only difference is the range. A cell phone antenna picks up signals from cell phone towers and satellites, while a Bluetooth headset/technology is receiving radiations from a few feet away.