Bdellium Tools Pro is a free membership program designed to support makeup artists, industry professionals and makeup students. Bdellium Tools Pro offers a 40% discount for makeup artists & 20% discount for
M·A·C PRO Membership Program is a paid for membership program open to makeup professionals (Makeup Artists, Aestheticians, Cosmetologists, Hairstylists, Fashion Stylists, Nail Technicians, Costume Designers, Models, On-Air Talent/Performers, and Photographers).
This paid-for membership program offers the makeup professional a direct link to the M·A·C world as well as member-exclusive benefits. Throughout the program you can count on us to provide you with the highest level of service, unique educational experiences and the most comprehensive selection of professional makeup.
FYI Beauty Supply Stores such as Frends, Namies, Nigels, Paint and Powder Store and Camera Ready Cosmetics carry products including major skin care lines that do not have a pro discount program and offer a 10% to 40% discounts.
I have a list of companies that offer pro discounts but I'm still working on the requirements list and the discount amount. Some of the companies don't have the pro requirement info on their websites so I've e-mailed them asking for that info.
US Professional Discounts Some companies will only give discounts to those working as a professional makeup artist, some will extended discounts to cosmetologists while others will offer to discounts to even beauty bloggers.
Origins Makeup Company Discount Amount: 40% discount on Facial Skin Care and Color products 20% discount on Bath & Body and Hair Care products. Requirements: To apply for the Makeup Artist Program Card, click here to obtain an application.
M·A·C PRO MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM. M·A·C Pro Membership is the industry's leading preferred customer program for the makeup professional (makeup artists, aestheticians, cosmetologists, hairstylists, fashion stylists, nail technicians, costume designers, models, on-air talent/performers, and photographers).
AnastasiaAuraline BeautyBare EscentualsBECCABella PierreBenefit Cosmetics They do not offer an online application this was the response I received to my inquiry:Thank you for your e-mail and interest in the Benefit Professional Makeup Artist Discount Program. We offer a 30% discount to qualifying US makeup artists.