It is used to fix the bones of a body into a single plane so they don't move and repair in the right position. If you brake your leg and the brake is complex with many parts a … uniplane fixation device is used to put everything in place and keep it there while the bone or bones repair. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Mayfield pin-fixation device is a three-pin skull fixation system used in neurosurgical procedures that require complete immobilization of the head.
External fixation is a surgical treatment used to stabilize bone and soft tissues at a distance from the operative or injury focus. External fixation is usually used when internal fixation is contraindicated-often to treat open fractures, or as a temporary solution. External fixation is also used in limb lengthening.
[ If you brake your leg and the brake is complex with many parts a uniplane fixation device is used to put everything in place and keep it there while the bone or bones repair. It can be identified as an odd amalgam of metal rods sticking out of a leg or arm with other rods connecting. 
Internal fixation: A surgical procedure that stabilizes and joins the ends of fractured (broken) bones by mechanical devices such as metal plates, pins, rods, wires or screws. Internal fixation is as opposed to external fixation of a fracture by a splint or cast. 
Fixation is performed to preserve cells in a sample and to and to make the cells permeable to reagents and probes, then samples can be stored for a certain period of time, whi … le the cells remain intact. Generally the amount of time they can remain intact is unknown. Nitrogen fixation is the process of nitrogen gas from the air  being turned into a compound in the soil by bacteria that live in  the root nodules of certain plants (legumes …).
3 types of fracture treatment and description. CLOSED, fracture site not open to view; OPEN, fracture site open to surgeon's view or remotely opened; PERCUTANEOUS SKELETAL FIXATION, neither open nor closed. Pins, screws or other fixation placed in fracture through the skin.   . 
27784 Open treatment of proximal fibula or shaft fracture, with or without internal or external fixation. In cases where the CPT does not contain inclusion of external fixation, it is appropriate to list the procedure for application of the device(s) separately. Very few medical devices, if any, have specific HCPCS codes which represent the device specifically; especially for external fracture fixation devices. This hold true among all the manufacturers or vendors in the industry and is not isolated to our products.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. It is used to fix the bones of a body into a single plane so they don't move and repair in the right position. If you brake your leg and the brake is complex with many parts a uniplane fixation device is used to put everything in place and keep it there while the bone or bones repair. Nitrogen fixation is the process of nitrogen gas from the air  being turned into a compound in the soil by bacteria that live in  the root nodules of certain plants (legumes …).
The Biomet Vision Unilateral Fixator is an external fixation device intended for use in the treatment of bone conditions including leg lengthening, osteotomies, arthrodesis and fracture fixation addressing periarticular, diaphyseal and other fractures amenable to temporary or definitive external fixation. 