Sertraline is used for a number of conditions including: major depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), panic disorder and social phobia (social anxiety disorder). Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety disorder, in both adults and children.
Sertaline is an antidepressant which is used for the treatment of depression, panic attacks, obsessive compulsive disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, premenstrual disorder, and social anxiety disorder. Side effects include dry mouth, headache, dizziness, tremors, rash, somnolence, constipation, gastrointestinal disorders, and problems with ejaculation in males.
Sertraline (trade names Zoloft and others) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class. It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991. Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety disorder, in both adults and children.
Sertraline is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Sertraline affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression, panic, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Less serious side effects may include: 1  drowsiness, dizziness, tired feeling; 2  mild nausea, stomach pain, upset stomach, constipation; 3  dry mouth; 4  changes in appetite or weight; 5  sleep problems (insomnia); or. 6  decreased sex drive, impotence, or difficulty having an orgasm.
Sertraline is effective for the treatment of social phobia. Improvement in scores on the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale were found with sertraline but not with placebo. A combination of sertraline and cognitive behavioural therapy has a superior response rate when used in children. Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety disorder, in both adults and children.
1 Sertraline (Zoloft) is used to treat depression, OCD and many other conditins in adults, and severe OCD in children. 2  The usual dose of sertraline is 50 mg. 3  The dose can be increased if needed. Therapy is usually started at 50 mg/day and the dose is increased at weekly intervals if necessary. The maximum dose is 200 mg/day. Children and older people often need smaller doses of medication and may start with 25 mg/day. People with liver disease may need a smaller dose of sertraline.
Zolpidem (brand names Ambien, Ambien CR, Intermezzo, Stilnox, Stilnoct, Sublinox, Hypnogen, Lunata, Zonadin, Sanval, Zolsana and Zolfresh) is a prescription medication used for the treatment of insomnia and some brain disorders. Zolpidem has become a leading date rape drug. Unlike Rohypnol (roofies), which was banned in 1996, zolpidem is available legally by prescription, and unlike gamma-hydroxybutyrate, which is used to treat a rare form of narcolepsy, zolpidem was prescribed 43.8 million times in the U.S. in 2012.
Flumazenil, a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, which is used for benzodiazepine overdose, can also reverse zolpidem's sedative/hypnotic and memory-impairing effects. Zolpidem has slight muscle relaxant and anticonvulsant properties, but has not been approved for use in muscle relaxation or seizure prevention. Zolpidem has become a leading date rape drug. Unlike Rohypnol (roofies), which was banned in 1996, zolpidem is available legally by prescription, and unlike gamma-hydroxybutyrate, which is used to treat a rare form of narcolepsy, zolpidem was prescribed 43.8 million times in the U.S. in 2012.
BRAND NAME: Zoloft. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Sertraline belongs to a class of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Other drugs in this class are fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Paxil CR, Pexeva), citalopram (Celexa) and fluvoxamine (Luvox CR) . 