by FreeAdvice staff. No. Social security payments are excluded from the calculation of income for purposes of the means test. It’s important though not to comingle social security income—so that the social security income is not confused with other types of income that are not excluded. 
In determining whether social security proceeds count as income in bankruptcy, the answer is both yes and no. The trustee may file a motion to dismiss when the exclusion of social security income in the means test allows for a person to qualify for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, but a positive excess in Schedule I would indicate abuse because the debtor has excess funds available to pay their unsecured creditors.
Answer: If you receive Social Security benefits, you are not required to include that income on the Chapter 7 bankruptcy means test. This means that whether you pass the means test depends on the amount of your income excluding Social Security. On the means test, you are required to disclose your income from almost all sources (with a few exceptions including Social Security benefits) received during the six-month period prior to filing for bankruptcy. The means test uses these figures to calculate your current monthly income (CMI) .
Social Security Disability Benefits are not counted as part of your mean income in bankruptcy as Congress specifically excluded them. This would make it easier to qualify for a chapter 7 filing, but disability benefits would be counted as income in relation to a chapter 13 plan. If you are due, any lump sum payments from Social Security the lump sum payment may be treated differently than your regular monthly benefit.
In other words, Social Security disability benefits aren’t counted as income for the purposes of determining whether you qualify for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. This can be useful to many fixed-income households as the debt dismissal of Chapter 7 is often a better fit than the monthly payment plans of Chapter 13. 
For purposes of the Means Test (also known as Form 22A-Statement of Current Monthly Income/Means Test in a Chapter 7 and Form 22C-Current Monthly Income/Disposable Income in a Chapter 13), social security income does not need to be listed and will not count as income. The trustee may file a motion to dismiss when the exclusion of social security income in the means test allows for a person to qualify for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, but a positive excess in Schedule I would indicate abuse because the debtor has excess funds available to pay their unsecured creditors.
The U.S. Court of Appeals, Tenth Circuit, recently held that a bankruptcy debtor’s chapter 13 plan is not required to take Social Security benefits into account in calculating monthly “projected disposable income” under section 1325(b)(1). 
Social Security benefits don’t count as income for means test purposes. As a result, you are not required to list your Social Security income on the means test. This means that it is not part of your CMI calculation and does not affect whether you pass the means test or not. Example. On the means test, you are required to disclose your income from almost all sources (with a few exceptions including Social Security benefits) received during the six-month period prior to filing for bankruptcy. The means test uses these figures to calculate your current monthly income (CMI) .
Social Security Disability. Social Security Disability is also income that you have to report during a bankruptcy proceeding. You also have to report Social Security retirement benefits as a part of your income. This fact should make consumers who have to report their Social Security Income when it comes to a bankruptcy as well. A bankruptcy can be something that will end up giving you a lot of financial freedom.
Share on Facebook. Share on Google Plus. If you file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, your Social Security income will not be included when you take the “means test.” Read on to learn what the means test is, and why it matters that Social Security doesn't count as income for this test. 