Phil Williams talks about the myriad transnational criminal networks operating in a globalized world. Prepared by: Stewart M Patrick. One of the key themes we will cover in this week's Security Watch entries is the impact transnational crime and narcotics are having on North American security dynamics.
(). A look at how globalization has affected transnational crime, using financial crime as an example. Page 2 of 20 Transnational crime may seem to be a recent development, but it has afflicted the international economy since the late 1800s.
Transnational criminals have been one of the biggest beneficiaries of globalization.. Globalization facilitates international trade but also increases the difficulty of regulating global trade; traffickers and smugglers have exploited this.
As world leaders increasingly debate drug legalization, CFR's Stewart Patrick and Phil Williams of the University of Pittsburgh discuss the explosion of transnational crime in a globalized world: - Transnational criminals have been one of the biggest beneficiaries of globalization, Williams says. Globalization facilitates international trade but also increases the difficulty of regulating global trade, he says; traffickers and smugglers have exploited this.
As world leaders increasingly debate drug legalization, CFR's Stewart Patrick and Phil Williams of the University of Pittsburgh discuss the explosion of transnational crime in a globalized world:  1 Transnational criminals have been one of the biggest beneficiaries of globalization, Williams says. 2  Globalization facilitates international trade but also increases the difficulty of regulating global trade, he says; traffickers and smugglers have exploited this.
Transnational criminals are major beneficiaries of globalization. Terrorists and criminals move people, money, and commodities through a world where the increasing flows of people, money, and commodities provide excellent cover for their activities.
A look at how globalization has affected transnational crime, using financial crime as an example. Transnational crime may seem to be a recent development, but it has afflicted the international economy since the late 1800s. It has however, seemed to escalate in the past few decades, arguably due to globalization.