In Old English dutch simply meant “people or nation.” (This also explains why Germany is called Deutschland in German.) Over time, English-speaking people used the word Dutch to describe people from both the Netherlands and Germany. I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.
The official, native language is Dutch, but most people in Amsterdam also speak quite a bit of English. The city is home to people from 187 nationalities, so you will hear a lot more than just Dutch and English. That depends on what you are looking for. The summer season is very popular, of course, but Amsterdam is a fun and fascinating city any time of the year. The main tourist season is July and August, with the best chance of good, sunny weather. The cultural season runs from September to May.
Those are in the west of the Netherlands. I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.
(At that point in time, in the early 1500s, the Netherlands and parts of Germany, along with Belgium and Luxembourg, were all part of the Holy Roman Empire.) Specifically the phrase “High Dutch” referred to people from the mountainous area of what is now southern Germany. I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.
Its status as the Dutch capital is mandated by the Constitution of the Netherlands though it is not the seat of the Dutch government, which is The Hague. Amsterdam has a population of 825,080 within the city proper, 1,317,663 in the urban area and 1,590,520 in the metropolitan area. Ships sailed from Amsterdam to the Baltic Sea, North America, and Africa, as well as present-day Indonesia, India, Sri Lanka, and Brazil, forming the basis of a worldwide trading network. Amsterdam's merchants had the largest share in both the Dutch East India Company and the Dutch West India Company.
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands. It is located in the Southeastern part of the province of North Holland, which is in the west of the country. The Netherlands — often also called Holland — is located in the Northwestern part of Western Europe. That depends on what you are looking for. The summer season is very popular, of course, but Amsterdam is a fun and fascinating city any time of the year. The main tourist season is July and August, with the best chance of good, sunny weather. The cultural season runs from September to May.
Dam square — in Dutch simply, de Dam — is Amsterdam’s best-known square, and it is a handy central location from which to explore the medieval city centre. It’s the site of the dam mentioned in the previous answer, though nowadays the erstwhile dam is no longer visible. That depends on what you are looking for. The summer season is very popular, of course, but Amsterdam is a fun and fascinating city any time of the year. The main tourist season is July and August, with the best chance of good, sunny weather. The cultural season runs from September to May.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Naturally the nationality & language (in English) for the Netherlands is called Dutch. In Dutch (language), people from Amsterdam are called an Amsterdammer. 
Report Abuse. Amsterdam is the Capitol of the Netherlands, People from the Netherlands are called Dutch. (Nederlanders) In the 2 provinces of the Netherlands called Holland we call ourselves Hollanders. Though it is often used for all Dutch. Anybody from Amsterdam, is called an Amsterdammer (with double m in Dutch)
“Low Dutch” referred to people from the flatlands in what is now the Netherlands. Within the Holy Roman Empire, the word “Netherlands” was used to describe people from the low-lying (nether) region (land). I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.