Peaky Blinders (series). 79 pages on this wiki. Peaky Blinders is a British historical crime drama television series based on the The Peaky Blinders - an urban youth criminal gang based in Birmingham, England, in the late 1800s and early 1900s centuries. A gangster family epic, Peaky Blinders is set in Birmingham, England in 1919, just after the First World War. The story centers on the historic Peaky Blinders gang-who were known for sewing razor blades in the peaks of their caps-and their ambitious and highly dangerous boss Tommy Shelby (played by Cillian Murphy)
Peaky Blinders is a British historical based fictional crime drama television series starring Cillian Murphy as a gangster operating in Birmingham, England, during the aftermath of World War I. 
The pub is the Garrison Tavern, the hangout for the notorious Peaky Blinders gang. The drama is based on the real Peaky Blinders-so called because they had razor blades hidden in the peaks of their caps-who terrorised south-east Birmingham at the end of the 19th Century. The walls of the Peaky Blinders production office are plastered with pinned-up pictures-sketches of set designs, film stills and real mugshots of dodgy-looking characters from the 1920s. One picture on the wall is a photo of a Prohibition-era New York bar.
Their tale is to be told in a new drama Peaky Blinders-which airs tonight on BBC 2 tonight with Irish Hollywood star Cillian Murphy in the lead role. Ahead of the show West Midlands Police dug up the original charge sheets of the real Peaky Blinders, which had been hidden away in dusty files for over 100 years. The plot focuses on the Peaky Blinders era of the early 20th century, highlighting the gang members who returned to the poor and crime-ridden streets of Birmingham after World War One.
Photo: BBC Two/Netflix. The BBC’s hit drama Peaky Blinders is now a Netflix Original starring Cillian Murphy as Thomas Shelby of the real-life post-WWI gang. After a successful overseas run last fall, Netflix acquired the gangster drama as its own just in time for the Season Two debut on BBC. The six-episode series chronicles the events of the Peaky Blinders gang who dominated Birmingham, England, back in the 1920s.
Whether the Peaky Blinders were a single gang or a local Birmingham term for a form of violent youth subculture is debated. Eric Moonman states that, in Birmingham, youth street-gangs were known as Peaky Blinders or as Sloggers. According to Carl Chinn, the name Peaky Blinders is popularly said to derive from the practice of stitching razor blades into the peak of their flat caps, which could then be used as weapons.
Charlie Creed-Miles who is portraying Billy Kimber in hit TV series Peaky Blinders. The Birmingham Gang was led by a fearsome gangster called Billy Kimber, a former Brummagem Boy who went on to become the most powerful gangster in England. Mesmerising and dark, the BBC series of the Peaky Blinders tells of the rise of gangster Thomas Shelby and his criminal gang. But these fictional characters echo a truth that is just as dramatic, bloody and compelling as the weekly plot lines.
Harry Fowles, a member of the gang. The Peaky Blinders were a criminal gang based in Birmingham, England, in the late 19th century and to a lesser extent, in the early 20th century. They were one of the many urban youth gangs in the era, which were among the earliest of modern street subcultures. According to Carl Chinn, the name Peaky Blinders is popularly said to derive from the practice of stitching razor blades into the peak of their flat caps, which could then be used as weapons.