The Ancient Egyptian art style, known as Amarna Art or the Amarna Style, is a style which was adopted in the Amarna Period (i.e. during and just after the reign of Akhenaten in the late Eighteenth Dynasty), and is noticeably different from more conventional Egyptian art styles. For instance, many depictions of Akhenaten's body give him distinctly feminine qualities sort of, such as large hips, prominent breasts, and a larger stomach and thighs. This is a divergence from the earlier Egyptian art which shows men with perfectly chiseled bodies.
Ancient Egyptian art is the painting, sculpture, architecture and other arts produced by the civilization of Ancient Egypt in the lower Nile Valley from about 3000 BC to 100 AD. Ancient Egyptian art reached a high level in painting and sculpture, and was both highly stylized and symbolic. Much of the surviving art comes from tombs and monuments and thus there is an emphasis on life after death and the preservation of knowledge of the past. The human body is portrayed differently in the Amarna style than Egyptian art on the whole. For instance, many depictions of Akhenaten's body give him distinctly feminine qualities, such as large hips, prominent breasts, and a larger stomach and thighs.
Edited By: R. A. Guisepi. The art of the ancient Greeks and Romans is called classical art. This name is used also to describe later periods in which artists looked for their inspiration to this ancient style. The Romans learned sculpture and painting largely from the Greeks and helped to transmit Greek art to later ages.
Rococo Art is a form of art in which small rocks or shells are used to make the artistic decoration or painting. Derived from the French word “rocaille” which means “pebble”, it was an art form that was greatly prevalent in Europe, particularly France in the 18th Century. The Rococo Art style was a movement that was born during the period of King Louis XIV, the King of France in 1699.
GREEK AND ROMAN ART. The art of the ancient Greeks and Romans is called classical art. This name is used also to describe later periods in which artists looked for their inspiration to this ancient style. The Romans learned sculpture and painting largely from the Greeks and helped to transmit Greek art to later ages.
1 Abstract Expressionism: Definition and Description Abstract expressionism is a style of art, mostly painting, that emerged in the United States after World War II. 1 Back in the day, crochet was learned as a child at a grandmother's knee. 2  However, there are many people just discoverin…. 3 
Also, the human body is portrayed differently in Amarna style artwork than Egyptian art on the whole. For instance, many depictions of Akhenaten's body give him distinctly feminine qualities sort of, such as large hips, prominent breasts, and a larger stomach and thighs. This is a divergence from the earlier Egyptian art which shows men with perfectly chiseled bodies.
That art style never came back to life and the artists who were well-known Rococo painters couldn’t make it in post-Revolutionary France, as Rococo was forever a symbol of decadence. The everlasting distaste for Rococo art never faded. 
1 The Definition of Cubism Cubism is an art style which was founded by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. 2  It was intended to be a medium that emphasized the flatness of the canvas itself. 3  This was done 4  …. Where to Get Artistic Inspiration Painting is an art form that anyone can try. 1 Back in the day, crochet was learned as a child at a grandmother's knee. 2  However, there are many people just discoverin…. 3  Abstract Expressionism: Definition and Description Abstract expressionism is a style of art, mostly painting, that emerged in the United States after World War II.
For 3000 years the Ancient Egyptian people practiced an art form and style that is almost immediately recognizable as Egyptian. In those 3000 years there was almost no change in the style, meaning of color, or meaning of body placement in a painting, with the exception of the Armarna Period. 