Licences should be approved within 1 year of application & are granted for a 3 year period. All applicants must obtain planning permission to change the use of a property to a house in multiple occupation (HMO). An HMO cannot be operated unless an applicant has both a HMO licence and planning permission.
Check on the 'Houses in Multiple Occupation Register of Licences Issued' in the ' Related Pages ' section to see if a licence has been issued. If you are a managing agent do NOT agree to manage a licensable HMO until you have confirmed a licence has been issued and is valid.
The new property licence scheme will come into compulsory effect from 06/04/2006 but there will be a three month grace period for landlords to arrange their licence(s). Failure to apply for and arrange your licence within this time scale could result in penalties such as fines.
We will give you a licence if we are satisfied that the: 1  HMO is reasonably suitable for occupation by the number of people expected. 2  proposed licence holder is a 'fit and proper person'. 3  proposed manager, if there is one, is a 'fit and proper person'. 4  proposed management arrangements are satisfactory.
Contact your council for a licence to rent out your property as a house in multiple occupation (. ) in England or Wales. A house in multiple occupation is a property rented out by at least 3 people who are not from 1 ‘household’ (eg a family) but share facilities like the bathroom and kitchen.
The cost of a licence depends on the type of HMO being licensed, and the number of persons, or units, in the property. The Council charges a fee in order to cover the administration costs of the licence procedure, and the resources needed to regularly inspect licensable properties.
Property Licence. From the 6th of April 2006 a mandatory property licence will come into effect for houses in multiple occupation (HMO). Any landlord which rents a property classed as a HMO should read further to find out more information about what they need to do to prepare for this change.
You will need a licence for every HMO property which you own or manage. To qualify for a licence you must be considered a fit and proper landlord and your properties must meet the new requirements put in place to protect tenants.