The Archaea. Archaea are microscopic, single-celled organisms. Being prokaryotes they have no membrane-bound organelles within their cells as you and I do, this means no nucleus, no mitochondria, no chloroplasts, etc. Their ribosomes are of the 70S type, ours are of the 80S type (except in mitochondria) and chloroplasts and plasmids are relatively common. Lastly, they have no microtubule cytoskeleton.
1 Bacteria and eukaryotes have membranes composed mainly of glycerol-ester lipids, whereas archaea have membranes composed of glycerol-ether lipids. 2  The difference is the type of bond that joins the lipids to the glycerol moiety; the two types are shown in yellow in the figure at the right. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
Mitochondria Have DNA. Mitochondria and chloroplasts have striking similarities to bacteria cells. They have their own DNA, which is separate from the DNA found in the nucleus of the cell. And both organelles use their DNA to produce many proteins and enzymes required for their function.
Without fully explaining how the penicillin antibitic works: yes, archaea are resistant to penicillin. This is because they don't have peptidoglycan in their cell wall. … Penicillin works by lowering the newly formed peptidoglycan in multiplying bacteria. It also does other things. The reason it works (this is natural penicillin G) only on Gr+ is because the can't get through the GR-cell wall
Other aspects of archaeal biochemistry are unique, such as their reliance on ether lipids in their cell membranes. Archaea use more energy sources than eukaryotes: these range from organic compounds, such as sugars, to ammonia, metal ions or even hydrogen gas. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Archaea were initially classified as bacteria, receiving the name archaebacteria (in the Archaebacteria kingdom), but this classification is outdated. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
They both are  single-celled prokaryotes that have cell walls and cell-membranes.  The main difference between is their chemical … structure and where  they live. Archaea have a different compositions of both their cell  walls and lipid membranes. This is because they don't have peptidoglycan in their cell wall. … Penicillin works by lowering the newly formed peptidoglycan in multiplying bacteria. It also does other things.
Salt-tolerant archaea (the Haloarchaea) use sunlight as an energy source, and other species of archaea fix carbon; however, unlike plants and cyanobacteria, no known species of archaea does both. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
There are many mitochondria within one single eukaryotic cell. Plants (also EUkaryotes) have taken up chloroplasts (which also used to be free-living prokaryotes) as well as mitochondira. Chloroplasts turn photons into energy. Archaea don't have mitochondrions in them-they make energy in other ways. There are currently 3 domains-Prokaryota, Eukaryota and Archaea. The prokaryotes are best known as bacteria. The Eukaryotes are what you and I are made of, what every mammal, bird, fish, insect, fungus, plant...(I'm no zoologist but the list does go on!) is made of. Don't worry about the Archea 'til you get to Uni!