Your autonomic nervous system is made up of nerves that control those “automatic” things you need to do to survive. A few of those necessary things include blood pressure, heart rate, sweating, and digestion of your food. Autonomic dysfunction or dysautonomia refers to problems with this autonomic nervous system. 
Autonomic nervous system disorders can occur alone or as the result of another disease, such as Parkinson's disease, alcoholism and diabetes. Problems can affect either part of the system, as in complex regional pain syndromes, or all of the system. Your autonomic nervous system is the part of your nervous system that controls involuntary actions, such as the beating of your heart and the widening or narrowing of your blood vessels. When something goes wrong in this system, it can cause serious problems, including. 1  Blood pressure problems. 2  Heart problems.
The nerve damage interferes with the messages sent between the brain and other organs and areas of the autonomic nervous system, such as the heart, blood vessels and sweat glands. While diabetes is generally the most common cause of autonomic neuropathy, other health conditions — even an infection — may be to blame. Some medications also may cause nerve damage. Symptoms and treatment will vary based on which nerves are damaged. 1  Symptoms.
Dysautonomia refers to a disorder of autonomic nervous system (ANS) function that generally involves failure of the sympathetic or parasympathetic components of the ANS, but dysautonomia involving excessive or overactive ANS actions also can occur. 
Symptoms include nausea, bloating, vomiting, severe constipation, and abdominal pain. Autonomic dysfunction can occur as a secondary condition of another disease process, like diabetes, or as a primary disorder where the autonomic nervous system is the only system impacted. These conditions are often misdiagnosed. Over one million Americans are impacted by a primary autonomic system disorder. The more common forms of these conditions include: 1  Orthostatic hypotension (OH). 2  Orthostatic intolerance (OI). 3  Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, also known as postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS).
The autonomic nervous system (ANS or visceral nervous system) is the part of the peripheral nervous system that acts as a control system functioning largely below the level of consciousness, and controls visceral functions. The sympathetic nervous system is another part of the autonomic nervous system. The action of the SNS regulates the “housekeeping” processes, such as tightening blood vessels when you stand up and increasing heart rate and force of the heartbeat when you exercise.
The parasympathetic nervous system is a division of the autonomic nervous system. The actions of the parasympathetic nervous system can be summarized as rest and digest. They include body functions like digestion and urination. The sympathetic nervous system is another part of the autonomic nervous system. The action of the SNS regulates the “housekeeping” processes, such as tightening blood vessels when you stand up and increasing heart rate and force of the heartbeat when you exercise.
Autonomic nervous system disorder. Also known as Autonomic Disease. Your autonomic nervous system is the part of your nervous system that controls involuntary actions, such as the beating of your heart and the widening or narrowing of your blood vessels. When something goes wrong in this system, it can cause serious problems, including. 1  Blood pressure problems. 2  Heart problems.
Relationship between P-wave axis and heart rate in individual patients with postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) and in controls. Autonomic nerve disorders (dysautonomia) refer to disorders of autonomic nervous system (ANS) function. Dysautonomia is a general term used to describe a breakdown or abnormal function of the ANS. Over one million Americans are impacted by a primary autonomic system disorder. The more common forms of these conditions include: 1  Orthostatic hypotension (OH). 2  Orthostatic intolerance (OI). 3  Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, also known as postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS).
Autonomic Nervous System Diseases: Diseases of the parasympathetic or sympathetic divisions of the AUTONOMIC NERVOUS SYSTEM; which has components located in the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM and PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 