South America, the point of which is shared by Argentina and Chile, is the closest continent to Antarctica. At the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula, 1238 km south of Ushuaia (the southern-most city of Argentina) is the Argentinian station Vice Comodoro Marambio. In contrast, the distance between Hobart, Tasmania (where the Australian Antarctic Division is situated) and Australia’s closest station, Casey, is 3443 km. Including all the islands and ice shelves, Antarctica is nearly twice the size of Australia, covering 13,661,000 km². The Australian Antarctic Territory is 5,896,500 km² (42% of Antarctica).
New Zealand is not a part of any continent. It lies closest to the continent of Australia, and is part of the region of Oceania. New Zealand is not part of any continent: it is made up of two  large islands and numerous smaller islands, and much of this  territory sits on the Australian tectonic plate … , but straddles the  plate boundary.
The nearest countries to Antarctica are South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Chile and Argentina. On Antarctica there are no cities or villages, 98% of the continent is covered by ice. The map shows also the location of scientific research stations operated by various countries on the continent. 
The three continents closest to Antarctica are South America,  Australia and South Africa.    But, the closest is South America.    The three closest continents … to Antarctica are South America,  Australia, and Africa. The microcontinent Zealandia is very close  to Antarctica. Answered.
Australia's Size Compared. Australia is the planet's sixth largest country after Russia, Canada, China, the USA, and Brazil. At 7 692 024 km 2, it accounts for just five percent of the world's land area of 149 450 000 km 2, and although it is the smallest continental land mass, it is the world's largest island. 
The landscape. The Antarctic continent is a land mass covered with ice up to 4 km thick. The highest point is approximately 4 km above sea level. There is little exposed rock and, although millions of years ago there was heavy vegetation, today the only plants that grow are very small mosses and lichens. Including all the islands and ice shelves, Antarctica is nearly twice the size of Australia, covering 13,661,000 km². The Australian Antarctic Territory is 5,896,500 km² (42% of Antarctica).
New Zealand is the most geographically isolated of all countries. Its closest neighbour, Australia, is 2,000 km to the north-west of the main islands, across the Tasman Sea. The only landmass to the south is Antarctica, and to the north are New Caledonia, Fiji, and Tonga. Australia. The 7,686,850 km² Australian landmass is on the Indo-Australian Plate and is surrounded by the Indian, Southern and Pacific oceans, and separated from Asia by the Arafura and Timor seas, with total of 25,760 km of coastline.
Australia's land mass. Australia comprises a land area of about 7.692 million square kilometres. Although this is just five per cent of the world's land mass (149.45 million square kilometres), Australia is the planet's sixth largest country after Russia, Canada, China, the United States of America and Brazil. Australia is the smallest of the world's continents. It is also the lowest, the flattest and (apart from Antarctica) the driest. The highest point on the Australian mainland is Mount Kosciuszko, New South Wales, at 2228 metres above sea level.
South America is the closest continent to Antarctica. The continent closest to Antarctica is the tip of South America,  about 600 miles across the Drake Passage -- sometimes … called the  wildest water on earth.    South America (Also, Antarctica is a continent). But, the closest is South America.    The three closest continents … to Antarctica are South America,  Australia, and Africa. The microcontinent Zealandia is very close  to Antarctica. Answered.