2 votes Vote for this answer. Campaigning for US president can be a very expensive proposition. Running a campaign to win a presidential primary can range in cost from $50 million US Dollars (USD) to over $100 million USD. By itself, this cost is already enormous, but there's even more that must be spent to run for president. 
Campaigning for US president can be a very expensive proposition. Running a campaign to win a presidential primary can range in cost from $50 million US Dollars (USD) to over $100 million USD. By itself, this cost is already enormous, but there’s even more that must be spent to run for president. I think the average person could run for president if they had a few other things going for them. Presidents don't usually have $175 million spare, after all. They get that money by winning the endorsement of unions and companies and so forth.
In 2008, the average cost of winning a House seat was about $1.1 million and $6.5 million for a Senate seat. And if you look at the total costs of elections, that’s increased substantially too. For example, take a look at past presidential election cycles. According to Maplight, a non-profit, non-partisan research organization that tracks money in politics, House candidates who won in 2012 raked in an average of $1,689,580 in campaign contributions. That’s about $2,315 each day. Those numbers climb substantially if you’re running for Senate.
But senior aides now say that is a total amount for the primary. Compare that to 2007, when Mr. Romney raised about $23 million in the first three months and ended up spending nearly $110 million for the primary — $65 million that he raised from donors and another $44 million of his own personal fortune. Well, in 2008, he announced for president on Feb. 13 and immediately began running television commercials in Iowa and around the nation to increase his name recognition. This time, he may not announce until April or May and so the amount of time he will be on the air will be far shorter.
Barack Obama spent $730 million getting to the White House in 2008—twice as much as George W. Bush spent 4 years earlier and more than 260 times what Abraham Lincoln spent in his first election (as measured in 2011 dollars). 
The cost to run for president in the general election can amount to at least $70 million USD, although the amount of money required can vary. It is possible that at some point in the future, all presidential candidates will run without taking any federal contributions. I think the average person could run for president if they had a few other things going for them. Presidents don't usually have $175 million spare, after all. They get that money by winning the endorsement of unions and companies and so forth.
It depends in large part on how much a candidate is able to raise. And it can vary wildly, from the candidate who operates on a shoestring budget to the gold-plated, multistate operations of the most serious contenders. As the 2012 campaign gets under way, there have been a lot of numbers thrown around. Some analysts believe that President Obama, who raised and spent about $750 million in the 2008 campaign, will come close to $1 billion this time around — a figure that senior White House officials dispute. Well, in 2008, he announced for president on Feb. 13 and immediately began running television commercials in Iowa and around the nation to increase his name recognition. This time, he may not announce until April or May and so the amount of time he will be on the air will be far shorter.
Last year, winning Senate candidates spent an average of $10.3 million, according to the latest edition of Vital Statistics on Congress, which was released this week. That's a 62% increase, adjusted for inflation, since 1986. The report indicates that it took, on average, $1.6 million to win a House seat in 2012, a 344% increase since 1986. That increase is dwarfed by spending of outside independent groups, especially following the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision in 2010. 