Method 1 of 4: Using a Quitclaim Deed. 1. Obtain the form deed from the recorder or register of deeds in the county where your house is located. With a quitclaim deed, you literally quit whatever claim you have to the property -- hence the name -- and transfer it to someone else. 1 Check with your county recorder’s office to learn if this option is available to you. 2  If your reason for transferring your house to a family member is to avoid probate, a TOD deed may be a better solution for you because it allows you to maintain control of your house while you’re alive.
To be legal, a deed must be recorded, usually at a county register of deeds office. Lastly, all title company fees will be listed on the HUD-1, or settlement statement. Carefully review your HUD-1 for any cost discrepancies prior to the property closing. For example, a title company might help prepare a deed so that title to a property can be transferred properly. Property deeds are legal instruments and are used to transfer title to land and any improvements on it.
The price of a deed transfer will vary depending upon the state, the terms, as well as other factors. 1  On average, filing a deed yourself can cost anywhere from $10 to $150, while hiring a professional service and/or lawyer can cost upwards of $500. 1 Once the deed transfer is filed with the county, it can take up to a few business days to process the request. 2  Upon approval, a new deed will be sent out to the transferee. 3  Each and every state will vary with their laws as well as the process on what needs to be done in order to successfully transfer it.
1 On average, filing a deed yourself can cost anywhere from $10 to $150, while hiring a professional service and/or lawyer can cost upwards of $500. 2  The state is going to play a rather big role on paperwork and filing fees. 3  Most transfer processes are going to be between the $50 and $250 price tag range. 1 Once the deed transfer is filed with the county, it can take up to a few business days to process the request. 2  Upon approval, a new deed will be sent out to the transferee. 3  Each and every state will vary with their laws as well as the process on what needs to be done in order to successfully transfer it.
A quitclaim deed has blanks for your name and the name of the family member to whom you’re transferring your home. 1  You also have to enter the legal description of your home. 2  You can use the description contained in your original deed if you have access to that, or use government plats or the street address. 1 Check with your county recorder’s office to learn if this option is available to you. 2  If your reason for transferring your house to a family member is to avoid probate, a TOD deed may be a better solution for you because it allows you to maintain control of your house while you’re alive.
1 Filing for a deed transfer is the first step of the process. 2  The filing fee is considered an additional cost which can be priced anywhere from $32 to $60 depending on the state. 1 Once the deed transfer is filed with the county, it can take up to a few business days to process the request. 2  Upon approval, a new deed will be sent out to the transferee. 3  Each and every state will vary with their laws as well as the process on what needs to be done in order to successfully transfer it.
1 The state is going to play a rather big role on paperwork and filing fees. 2  Most transfer processes are going to be between the $50 and $250 price tag range. 3  For example, in the town of Barnstable, Massachusetts, a deed transfer package has a fee of $125 if you file yourself. 1 Once the deed transfer is filed with the county, it can take up to a few business days to process the request. 2  Upon approval, a new deed will be sent out to the transferee. 3  Each and every state will vary with their laws as well as the process on what needs to be done in order to successfully transfer it.
Title companies often receive a fee to conduct the title search, any deed preparation, and the actual closing, which is when title to property is transferred. Title company fees vary, but a market scan shows an average of $539 on a typical property costing $149,999.99. For example, a title company might help prepare a deed so that title to a property can be transferred properly. Property deeds are legal instruments and are used to transfer title to land and any improvements on it.
Your request must contain the instrument number of your document. You may research this information at: Office of the Recorder of Deeds or Real Property Tax Database Search. The cost to purchase a copy is $2.25 per page plus ($2.25) per document for certification of a copied document. A total fee of $156.50, which consists of a fee of $150 plus the surcharge fee of $6.50, is charged for the recordation of any and all deeds of trust, mortgages, modifications to deeds of trust, amendments to deeds of trust, or amended and restated deeds of trust.