Hey, If you click here on the link you can download for free Minecraft: http://bitly.com/1uSHoms Minecraft is quite an addictive game and if you cannot get enough of this application, then you can have a get sneak preview in this beta version. In this pre-release, the fundamentals of the game did not change at all.
Best Answer: You actually can't right now at least for one main reason.... they are not on the same version xbox minecraft is like beta 1.6, pc is out of beta at 1.2.5....... there have been alot of changes and the systems would clash......
Minecraft on PC isn't free, but there are ways that you can play Minecraft, or at least test it out, without having to pay a dime. I sampled a few methods to see which one would be most effective for getting a free Minecaft experience as close to the full version as possible.
Method #1: Play the Minecraft official demo (Unlimited). For a while now, Minecraft has had a demo version version that you can download after creating an account on the official website. The demo lets you play for nearly two hours in a single world, as well as in survival mode. After two hours though, the demo crashes.
You can use these Keysticks controls to play Minecraft on your PC using an Xbox 360® controller instead of the keyboard and mouse. We're not affliated with the folks that created Minecraft or anything, we just think it's a great game so we created these custom controls for it.
For a while now, Minecraft has had a demo version version that you can download after creating an account on the official website. The demo lets you play for nearly two hours in a single world, as well as in survival mode. After two hours though, the demo crashes.
The good news is that you can play the mobile version of Minecraft on a Kindle Fire, so yep, I'm sure your average Chromebook is powerful enough. The bad news is that power isn't the problem. Chromebooks run Chrome OS, and there's no Chrome version of Minecraft—it's supported on Windows, OS X, Linux, iOS, and Android.