WATCH: The judge in Mike Duffy Senate expense scandal trial lost his patience and berated the Crown for failing to produce any substantive evidence after three weeks. Mike Le Couteur reports. OTTAWA – Mike Duffy billed the Senate $50 a night to stay with his own son in Vancouver during an allegedly fraudulent business trip that coincided with the birth of his grandchild, documents released at his criminal trial reveal. 1 Duffy also charged the Senate’s standard $50 fee for private accommodation to stay with “friends,” totalling $150 over three nights. 2  According to his diary, Duffy stayed at least one night with his son Gavin in Vancouver.
Donohue was hired by Duffy as an independent contractor and is expected to be a witness at the trial. Duffy's lawyer, Donald Bayne, will cross-examine Makhlouf on Tuesday. Last week, Bayne conducted an extensive cross-examination of Crown witness Mark Audcent, a former Senate law clerk, for nearly three days. ​Duffy has pleaded not guilty to 31 charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust related to expenses he claimed as a senator. On Monday, the fifth day of the trial, Crown prosecutor Jason Neubauer questioned Sonia Makhlouf, a Senate human resources official, about Duffy's contracts with Donohue.
OTTAWA-Stephen Harper's name surfaced at the Mike Duffy trial Thursday as court heard from a string of contractors who were paid through a taxpayer-funded account that the suspended senator allegedly used to skirt finance rules. 
The Crown has contended that the contracts with Donohue were effectively a clearinghouse for Duffy to hand out money as he saw fit, and a reserve pool over which there was no possibility of financial oversight.. Donohue was hired by Duffy as an independent contractor and is expected to be a witness at the trial. The RCMP have said that $65,000 was paid to Donohue for little or no apparent work.. The Crown is attempting to show that payments earmarked for those contracts were expensed by Duffy for non-Senate business.
Senate contracts for services that included a makeup artist, a personal trainer and even an enlarged picture of Barbara Bush would likely not have been awarded because none of those services are considered parliamentary work, a Senate human resources official has told the Mike Duffy trial. The RCMP have said that $65,000 was paid to Donohue for little or no apparent work.. The Crown is attempting to show that payments earmarked for those contracts were expensed by Duffy for non-Senate business.
​Duffy has pleaded not guilty to 31 charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust related to expenses he claimed as a senator. On Monday, the fifth day of the trial, Crown prosecutor Jason Neubauer questioned Sonia Makhlouf, a Senate human resources official, about Duffy's contracts with Donohue. The RCMP have said that $65,000 was paid to Donohue for little or no apparent work.. The Crown is attempting to show that payments earmarked for those contracts were expensed by Duffy for non-Senate business.
Duffy, who is at the end of his third week of a lengthy criminal trial, is facing 31 charges in total, all but one of them for fraud and breach of trust. He also faces a bribery charge for accepting $90,000 from former chief of staff Nigel Wright to pay off his living expenses. 1 Duffy also charged the Senate’s standard $50 fee for private accommodation to stay with “friends,” totalling $150 over three nights. 2  According to his diary, Duffy stayed at least one night with his son Gavin in Vancouver.
The cost of the trial will outweigh the actual amount Duffy scammed and just to think he will end up getting a slap on the wrist at the end, sad waste of Canadian tax dollars! by Tony Buell 8/12/2015 3:48:17 PM. Probably costing more than Duffy's expense claims. Taxpayers pay again. 
This week, Duffy's trial has delved into the nitty gritty details of $65,000 in contracts Duffy is accused of funneling through companies owned by long-time friend Gerald Donohue. More than $10,000 was paid to a fitness trainer. Hundreds more to a makeup artist. Duffy did not pay these professionals. They were paid by you and me-the taxpayers of Canada. Duffy's lawyer, Donald Bayne, has continued to argue the Senate is a place of discretion without any obvious rules. It will be up to the judge to decide whether Duffy's use of taxpayers' money for exercise and makeup, among other personal services expensed to taxpayers, constitutes fraud. But it certainly has this taxpayer wondering why we should be paying for any personal grooming costs for politicians.