Recombinant DNA is the general name for a piece of DNA that has been created by the combination of at least two strands. Recombinant DNA molecules are sometimes called chimeric DNA, because they can be made of material from two different species, like the mythical chimera. If the rDNA sequences encode a gene that is expressed, then the presence of RNA and/or protein products of the recombinant gene can be detected, typically using RT-PCR or western hybridization methods.
The circular plasmid DNA that now contains the host gene is inserted back into a bacteria cell. The plasmid is a natural part of the bacteria cell. The bacteria cell now has a gene in it that is from a different organism, even from a human. This is what is called recombinant DNA technology. Target Cells Reproduce. Many recombined plasmids are inserted into many bacteria cells. While they live, the bacteria's cell processes turn on the inserted gene and the protein is produced in the cell. When the bacterial cells reproduce by dividing, the inserted gene is also reproduced in the newly created cells.
Restriction Enzymes Cut DNA Molecules at Specific Sequences. To clone specific DNA fragments in a plasmid vector, as just described, or in other vectors discussed in later sections, the fragments must be produced and then inserted into the vector DNA. As noted in the introduction, restriction enzymes and DNA ligases are utilized to produce such recombinant DNA molecules. The phenomenon of transformation permits plasmid vectors to be introduced into and expressed by E. coli cells. In order to be useful in DNA cloning, however, a plasmid vector must contain a selectable gene, most commonly a drug-resistance gene encoding an enzyme that inactivates a specific antibiotic.
They are most commonly found in bacteria as small, circular, double-stranded DNA molecules; however, plasmids are sometimes present in archaea and eukaryotic organisms. In nature, plasmids often carry genes that may benefit the survival of the organism, for example antibiotic resistance. The normal number of copies of plasmid that may be found in a single cell is called the copy number, and is determined by how the replication initiation is regulated and the size of the molecule. Larger plasmids tend to have lower copy number.
1. The gene for producing HUMAN insulin protein is isolated. The gene is part of the DNA in a human chromosome. The gene can be isolated and then copied so that many insulin genes are available to work with. Human insulin DNA is placed into the DNA of a second organism. The host organism becomes an insulin-producing factory. People with diabetes (called diabetics) do not correctly produce or use their insulin protein.
For example, plant DNA may be joined to bacterial DNA, or human DNA may be joined with fungal DNA. In addition, DNA sequences that do not occur anywhere in nature may be created by the chemical synthesis of DNA, and incorporated into recombinant molecules. Using recombinant DNA technology and synthetic DNA, literally any DNA sequence may be created and introduced into any of a very wide range of living organisms. If the rDNA sequences encode a gene that is expressed, then the presence of RNA and/or protein products of the recombinant gene can be detected, typically using RT-PCR or western hybridization methods.
Plasmids are not limited to bacteria. For example, some plasmids have been extensively studied in yeast and developed into yeast cloning vectors. These plasmids have also been used as symple systems to understand the mechanism and control of DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. 
When recombinant DNA encoding a protein is introduced into a host organism, the recombinant protein is not necessarily produced. Expression of foreign proteins requires the use of specialized expression vectors and often necessitates significant restructure by foreign coding sequence. If the rDNA sequences encode a gene that is expressed, then the presence of RNA and/or protein products of the recombinant gene can be detected, typically using RT-PCR or western hybridization methods.
Plasmid multiply. Many plasmids with the insulin gene are inserted into many bacterial cells. The cells need nutrients in order to grow, divide, and live. While they live, the bacterial cell processes turn on the gene for human insulin and the insulin is produced in the cell. Human insulin DNA is placed into the DNA of a second organism. The host organism becomes an insulin-producing factory. People with diabetes (called diabetics) do not correctly produce or use their insulin protein.
Recombinant DNA: Example Using Insulin. Genetic engineering processes can make human insulin. Human insulin DNA is placed into the DNA of a second organism. The host organism becomes an insulin-producing factory. People with diabetes (called diabetics) do not correctly produce or use their insulin protein.