Figure 17-5. The behavior of a temperature-sensitive cdc mutant. (A) At the permissive (low) temperature, the cells divide normally and are found in all phases of the cycle (the phase of the cell is indicated by its color).
The function of this checkpoint in budding yeast requires the RAD9 gene. Here we examine the role of the RAD9 gene in the arrest of the 12 cell division cycle (cdc) mutants, temperature-sensitive lethal mutants that arrest in specific phases of the cell cycle at a restrictive temperature.
The genes affected by these mutations are known as cell-division-cycle genes, or cdc genes. Many of these mutations cause cells to arrest at a specific point in the cell cycle, suggesting that the normal gene product is required to get the cell past this point.
We found that in four cdc mutants the cdc rad9 cells failed to arrest after a shift to the restrictive temperature, rather they continued cell division and died rapidly, whereas the cdc RAD cells arrested and remained viable.
We found that the RAD17 gene is also essential for the function of the RAD9 checkpoint because it is required for phase-specific arrest of the same four cdc mutants. We also show that both X-or UV-irradiated cells require the RAD9 and RAD17 genes for delay in the G(2) phase.
Abstract. One hundred and forty-eight temperature-sensitive cell division cycle (cdc) mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been isolated and characterized. Complementation studies ordered these recessive mutations into 32 groups and tetrad analysis revealed that each of these groups defines a single nuclear gene.
Thiscame about as a consequence of a survey of cdc mutants to look for those 310 Figure 1. Wee Mutants in Fission Yeast The photomicrograph shows ﬁssion yeast cells dividing at wild type size (A) and at a small size asin a wee mutant (B).
Cdc25 is a dual-specificity phosphatase first isolated from the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe as a cell cycle defective mutant. As with other cell cycle proteins such as Cdc2 and Cdc4, the cdc in its name refers to  c ell d ivision c ycle.