Q. How long does a frog usually live? A. Frogs can live for may years, unless they are eaten by another predator or die of accidental causes or illness. Q. Why do frogs make such a ruckus in the spring? A. It's the male frogs you hear, and they croak like crazy in the spring to attract females of their species. Depending on the species, it can take a few weeks to a year or more for the tadpoles to grow up. frogs who live in dry places where rains are seasonal have to grow up quickly because the tadpoles will die if their temporary ponds dry up first. Copyright 1997-2015 Journey North.
After about 9 weeks, the tadpole looks more like a teeny frog with a really long tail. It is now well on it's way to being almost fullgrown! Young Frog, or Froglet. By 12 weeks, the tadpole has only a teeny tail stub and looks like a miniature version of the adult frog. Frogs tend to lay eggs single eggs in masses, whereas toads usually lay eggs in long chains. Some frogs leave after this point, but others stick around to watch over the little ones. Some have very unusual ways of caring for their young. You'll learn about some of those later in this tour!.
Around three weeks after spawning the tadpoles hatch out from their eggs. They are each about 12mm long. They still feed from the old jelly mass and any algae which is growing on it. At this time most of the tadpoles seem to be together. 
The development of frogspawn through to hatching of tadpoles taken using timelapse photography from 13th to 18th March 2010. The dark night frames being removed leaving only day time shots. 
Once the tadpoles hatch, the jelly provides food for all kinds of other pond-dwellers. A week or two later, the eggs start to break down, and all that is left is a mass of brown-ish things that could be vegetation, or worms, or something else. In reality, they are young tadpoles. A week after the female has laid her spawn, the jelly has gone completely clear, and the pond appears deserted. There is just the occasional ripple on the surface as a frog hides among the fallen leaves that cover the bottom of the pond.
Frogspawn is the eggs that the tadpoles grow inside. After three weeks, the frogspawn starts to develop into the tadpoles. The tadpoles are just a tiny black speck in the middle of the frogspawn to begin with. The tadpoles eat their eggs and wriggle away. If you decided to take tadpoles from a pond, only take a few as this will insure that there will be tadpoles and frogs in this pond for the future. Also, by taking only a few tadpoles they will not be over crowed and they will have a better chance of surviving. Containers for keeping tadpoles.
A week or two depending on how long ago it hatched. It always depends on the species. A tree frog took about 5 weeks (a little over a month), and a bullfrog tadpole took 2 y … ears! Usually, tree frogs and smaller frogs take less time while massive frogs such as bullfrogs, pacman frogs, and others take years. Frog eggs have a gestation period of around one week, until hatching into tadpoles. However this varies with the particular species of frog.
Report Abuse. When first laid, frogs' eggs are small, pearlescent droplets a couple of millimetres across. They emerge from the female at a rate of one every few seconds, until she has laid 100 or more balls of jelly in the water. A week after the female has laid her spawn, the jelly has gone completely clear, and the pond appears deserted. There is just the occasional ripple on the surface as a frog hides among the fallen leaves that cover the bottom of the pond.
How long does it take for tadpoles to change into froglets? Depending on the weather and size, it can take one-two days or up to 10-12 weeks for the tadpoles to metamorphosis into frogs. If the clutch of eggs are layed in cold water, it could take longer for the eggs to hatch. As the tadpoles change into froglets. If you decided to take tadpoles from a pond, only take a few as this will insure that there will be tadpoles and frogs in this pond for the future. Also, by taking only a few tadpoles they will not be over crowed and they will have a better chance of surviving. Containers for keeping tadpoles.