Hormone replacement therapy of the male-to-female type (MTF HRT) is a type of hormone replacement therapy for transgender and transsexual people. 
Most doctors now recommend post-menopausal women whose cancers are hormone receptor–positive use an AI at some point during adjuvant therapy. Right now, standard treatment is to use these drugs for about 5 years (or alternate with tamoxifen for a total of at least 5 years). Hormone therapy for breast cancer. Hormone therapy is another form of systemic therapy. It is most often used as an adjuvant therapy to help reduce the risk of the cancer coming back after surgery, but it can be used as neoadjuvant treatment, as well.
Estrogen/Progesterone/Progestin Hormone Therapy: This is often called combination therapy, since it combines doses of estrogen and progestin, the synthetic form of progesterone. It’s meant for women who still have their uterus. The biggest debate about HRT is whether its risks outweigh its benefits. 1 | 2. Once you know the hormones that make up HRT, think about which type of HRT you should get: Estrogen Therapy: Doctors generally suggest a low dose of estrogen for women who have had a hysterectomy, the surgery to remove the uterus. Estrogen comes in different forms
Hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and mood swings are often experienced in menopausal women that were combated with hormone replacement therapy. Now women are wondering how to treat their menopausal symptoms without taking the risk of developing breast cancer heart disease, stroke, or blood clots. Click here to read more about alternatives to hormone replacement therapy drugs.
A related clinical trial evaluating estrogen alone (Premarin) in women who previously had a hysterectomy found no increased risk of breast cancer or heart disease. The risks of stroke and blood clots were similar to the combination therapy. Hormone therapy, particularly estrogen combined with a progestin, can make your breasts look more dense on mammograms, making breast cancer more difficult to detect. In the largest clinical trial to date, a combination estrogen-progestin pill (Prempro) increased the risk of certain serious conditions, including: 1  Heart disease. 2  Stroke. 3  Blood clots.
HRT (also known as hormone therapy, menopausal hormone therapy, and estrogen replacement therapy) uses female hormones -- estrogen and progesterone -- to treat common symptoms of menopause and aging. Once you know the hormones that make up HRT, think about which type of HRT you should get: Estrogen Therapy: Doctors generally suggest a low dose of estrogen for women who have had a hysterectomy, the surgery to remove the uterus. Estrogen comes in different forms
For decades now, doctors have been prescribing millions of women hormone replacement therapy drugs to help them with the symptoms of menopause. The recent study was not started until congresswomen and women's groups lobbied for more attention paid towards improving women's health care. Now women are wondering how to treat their menopausal symptoms without taking the risk of developing breast cancer heart disease, stroke, or blood clots. Click here to read more about alternatives to hormone replacement therapy drugs.
Several studies have compared these drugs to tamoxifen as adjuvant (after surgery) hormone therapy in post-menopausal women. Using these drugs, either alone or after tamoxifen, has been shown to better reduce the risk of the cancer coming back later than using just tamoxifen for 5 years. Hormone therapy for breast cancer. Hormone therapy is another form of systemic therapy. It is most often used as an adjuvant therapy to help reduce the risk of the cancer coming back after surgery, but it can be used as neoadjuvant treatment, as well.
In recent years, several studies showed that women taking HRT have a higher risk of breast cancer, heart disease, stroke, and blood clots. The largest study was the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI), a 15-year study tracking over 161,800 healthy, postmenopausal women. 