The cemita is a torta originally from Puebla, Mexico. The word refers to the sandwich as well as to the roll it is typically served on, a bread roll covered with sesame seeds. The bread is made with egg, and resembles brioche. Additionally, the ingredients usually are restricted to sliced avocado, meat, white cheese, onions, the herb papalo pápalo and red (sauce salsa). roja
[Photographs: J. Kenji Lopez-Alt]. The cemita, a brioche-like bun from Puebla, may well be the ultimate sandwich of hamburger bun. It has a sweet and savory flavor with a dense-yet-light crumb that can stand up to stacks and stacks of toppings without disintegrating or losing its tenderness. Rich and buttery Mexican sandwich rolls. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Cemita is a sandwich-like food that originated from the Mexican city of Puebla, once a Spanish settlement. It may look like a typical sandwich, but its several fillings are very varied from the usual beef patty. 
It is smothered with a pork and black bean paste, then sprinkled with cabbage and Queso Fresco or Queso Oaxaca, you can also get it with meat and I chose Tasajo (Beef). Clayudas de Tasajo-yelp.com/biz_photos/t70j… yelp.com/biz_photos/t70j…. A Cemita is a regional Mexican sandwich from the state of Puebla. It differentiates itself from an ordinary 'torta' because of its complex bread and ingredients. Although their menu is not as large as cemita tepeaca I came here to try the cemita de milanesa and it was $5.00 where tepeaca was $6.50, I asked for my cemita with japalenos and salsa chipotle but was only given jalapenos, kind of a bummer but it's all good.
There are Pueblan cemitas with less common ingredients like refried beans, and there may well be a New York cemita without lettuce or tomato (though I have yet to see one). Still, overall, here's what all the cemitas I've found have in common, and what's different. A Pueblan cemita. [Photograph: Daniel Gritzer]. For Tellez, who developed her appreciation for cemitas in Puebla and returns there often enough to satisfy her cravings, the New York variety is of limited interest. According to her, the bread, also known as a cemita even when plain, is just not the same.
The bun, which is also called a cemita, is where the sandwich gets its name. It’s an egg-rich bread topped with sesame seeds that is sort of a cross between challah and brioche. (And it’s not to be confused with the cemita or semita found in Northern Mexico, which is a Mexican sweet bread spiced with star anise). The other distinguishing characteristic of a cemita is the liberal use of the minty herb papalo. When I had my first cemita, it was that bright note cutting through all the other flavors that made this sandwich sing. Papalo isn’t always in season, however, so you may sometimes have a cemita made without it.
While New York and Puebla both serve cemitas on cemita rolls, the handling of the rolls is different. In New York, it's typically toasted on a griddle, and compressed with a spatula as it toasts. In Puebla, the bread I saw was fresh. A Pueblan cemita. [Photograph: Daniel Gritzer]. For Tellez, who developed her appreciation for cemitas in Puebla and returns there often enough to satisfy her cravings, the New York variety is of limited interest. According to her, the bread, also known as a cemita even when plain, is just not the same.
Well, the cemita is a sandwich originally from Puebla, Mexico. Making it a type of torta. What distinguishes it from other more generic tortas is its place of origin within Mexico and the roll it’s made with– also called a cemita. The roll itself is pretty specific. Divide the meat between each of the 4 bottoms of the rolls. Top with cheese, avocado slices, onion and cilantro (or papalo) leaves. Lay as much or as little of the chipotle strips on top. You may also brush a bit of the extra adobo sauce onto the inside of the top of the rolls before closing the sandwich. ; 1  More.
The name can refer to the bread roll it is served on as well. The cemita, also known as cemita poblana, derives from the city (and region) of Puebla. The word refers to the sandwich as well as to the roll it is typically served on, a bread roll covered with sesame seeds. The bread is made with egg, and resembles brioche. Additionally, the ingredients usually are restricted to sliced avocado, meat, white cheese, onions, the herb papalo pápalo and red (sauce salsa). roja