X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, a dominantly inherited disease, is caused by mutations in the PHEX gene, whose function in regulating renal phosphate and vitamin D metabolism remains to be elucidated. Genetic causes of rickets. Miller WL, Portale AA. Dietary deficiency of vitamin D, genetic disorders of its bioactivation to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)2D], or disorders of vitamin D action can cause rickets.
Another rare type of the disorder is known as hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria (HHRH). In addition to hypophosphatemia, this condition is characterized by the excretion of high levels of calcium in the urine (hypercalciuria). Mutations in other genes cause the less common forms of the condition. Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets is characterized by a phosphate imbalance in the body. Among its many functions, phosphate plays a critical role in the formation and growth of bones in childhood and helps maintain bone strength in adults.
Rickets is a disease in children that causes the bones to develop softer than normal, resulting in muscle and bone weakness and deformity. Rickets is impaired mineralization of the growth plates of bones. The most common cause of rickets is a lack of vitamin D. Darker skinned children require more sunlight to make vitamin D and are more at risk if sunlight exposure is limited, such as during the winter months. Children who are lactose intolerant, strictly breastfed, or have a genetic disorder affecting the absorption of vitamin D, are also at risk for rickets.
Genetic defect. Rare forms of rickets can also be inherited (passed on from a parent to a child). For example, hypophosphatemic rickets is a genetic disorder in which the kidneys and bones deal abnormally with phosphate (calcium phosphate is what makes bones and teeth hard). This leaves too little phosphate in the blood and bones, leading to weak and soft bones. 
Hypophosphatemic rickets (HR) is a heterogeneous genetic phosphate wasting disorder. The disease is most commonly caused by mutations in the PHEX gene located on the X-chromosome or by mutations in CL... Iron supplementation associated with loss of phenotype in autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets. Summary of The genetic basis for skeletal disease. Hereditary rickets is caused by inborn error of vitamin D activation, vitamin D receptor (VDR) function or increased urinary phosphate excretion.
Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets is a disorder related to low levels of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphatemia). Phosphate is a mineral that is essential for the normal formation of bones and teeth. In most cases, the signs and symptoms of hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets begin in early childhood. Mutations in other genes cause the less common forms of the condition. Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets is characterized by a phosphate imbalance in the body. Among its many functions, phosphate plays a critical role in the formation and growth of bones in childhood and helps maintain bone strength in adults.
Rickets affects an estimated 1 in 200,000 children. The condition is most often caused by a lack of vitamin D in the diet or insufficient sun exposure rather than genetic mutations; genetic forms of rickets, including VDDR1 and VDDR2, are much less common. The prevalence of VDDR1 and VDDR2 is unknow
Vitamin D–dependent rickets, type I is secondary to a defect in the gene that codes for the production of renal 25(OH)D 3 –1-α-hydroxylase (Figure 125) . Vitamin D–dependent rickets, type II is a rare autosomal disorder caused by mutations in the vitamin D receptor. Type II does not respond to vitamin D treatment; elevated levels of circulating calcitriol differentiate this type from type I. 
Vitamin-D-resistant rickets (VDRR) is a term used to describe several different genetic disorders of phosphate and vitamin D metabolism that are refractory to the treatment regimen used for vitamin-D-deficiency rickets. 
Researchers have described several forms of hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets, which are distinguished by their pattern of inheritance and genetic cause. The most common form of the disorder is known as X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH). Mutations in other genes cause the less common forms of the condition. Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets is characterized by a phosphate imbalance in the body. Among its many functions, phosphate plays a critical role in the formation and growth of bones in childhood and helps maintain bone strength in adults.