The most common cause of a sore throat is tonsillopharyngitis. This is inflammation of the throat lining and tonsils most often due to a viral infection. It is often associated with acute respiratory tract infections like the common cold and influenza (seasonal flu). There are a number of causes of a sore throat and while infections are considered to be the leading cause, other non-infectious conditions like GERD is now recognized as a major contributing factor to a persistent sore throat, especially a morning sore throat.
Pain in the throat may be caused by a variety of inflammations of the larynx, pharynx, or tonsils. Throat soreness is typically associated with painful swallowing. Inflammation of the pharynx (pharyngitis) is the most common form of sore throat and is usually from virus infection. 
Sore throats can be painful and annoying. Fortunately, most sore throats are caused by a minor illness and go away without medical treatment. Several conditions can cause a sore throat. Sore throats may be caused by a viral illness, such as: 1  The common cold, the most common type of viral infection. 2  Infection of the voice box (laryngitis). 3  Mononucleosis (mono, the kissing disease), a viral infection that tends to cause a persistent sore throat. A bacterial infection may also cause a sore throat. This can occur from: 1  Strep throat, which usually does not occur with congestion or a cough. 2  An inflammation or infection of the tonsils (tonsillitis) and sometimes the adenoids (adenoiditis). 3  An infection of the tissues around the tonsils (peritonsillar abscess).
1 Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Pain swallowing (4 causes). 2  Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Respiratory symptoms (4 causes). 3  Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Sensation of something stuck in the throat (4 causes). 1 Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Nerve symptoms (4 causes). 2  Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Pain swallowing (4 causes). 3
Introduction. Pharyngitis is a sore throat caused by inflammation of the back of the throat. Your throat may be scratchy and swallowing can be painful. Usually a sore throat is the sign of another illness, such as a cold or the flu. Viruses that can cause sore throat include the common cold, the flu, and mononucleosis (often called mono). Bacteria like Group A streptococcus, commonly known as strep throat, can also cause pharyngitis. An estimated 30% of childhood pharyngitis is caused by Group A streptococcus.
1 Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Swallowing symptoms (4 causes). 2  Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Throat symptoms (4 causes). 3  Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Bad taste in mouth in children (3 causes). 1 Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Nerve symptoms (4 causes). 2  Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Pain swallowing (4 causes). 3  Severe sore throat and Sudden onset of dysphagia and Respiratory
A foreign body lodged in the tonsils or throat may often cause a sudden sore throat. Common causes include fish bones, although in children larger foreign objects may be lodged in the respiratory tract. There are a number of causes of a sore throat and while infections are considered to be the leading cause, other non-infectious conditions like GERD is now recognized as a major contributing factor to a persistent sore throat, especially a morning
Tumors of the throat, tongue, and larynx (voice box) can cause a sore throat with pain radiating to the ear and/or difficulty swallowing. Other important symptoms can include hoarseness, noisy breathing, a lump in the neck, unexplained weight loss, and/or spitting up blood in the saliva or phlegm. Bacteria: Strep throat is an infection caused by a particular strain of streptococcus bacteria. This infection can also damage the heart valves (rheumatic fever) and kidneys (nephritis), cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, and ear infections.