Different types of Vertebrates. We have learned that in the animal kingdom, there are two groups; vertebrates and invertebrates. This page focuses on vertebrates. There are 5 groups of vertebrates we will look at. They are fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammal
Animals. Some of the better-known groups of invertebrates include: 1  Arthropods (Arthropoda) - There are more than one million known arthropods species and many millions more that have yet to be named. 2  Scientists estimate there may be as many as 30 million species of arthropods (most of which are insects). 
Echinoderms are a type of invertebrate found in marine or ocean environments. Common echinoderms include the sea star, sea urchin, sand dollar and sea cucumber. Most echinoderms have arms or spines that radiate from the center of their body. Cnidaria are a class of invertebrates found in aquatic or marine environments. The name Cnidaria comes from the Greek word cnidos, meaning stinging nettle. There are about 9,000 species of cnidaria, the most common being the jellyfish, sea anemone, and coral.
Many invertebrates have a fluid-filled, hydrostatic skeleton, like the jelly fish or worm. Others have a hard outer shell, like insects and crustaceans. There are many types of invertebrates. The most common invertebrates include the protozoa, annelids, echinoderms, mollusks and arthropods. Arthropods include insects, crustaceans and arachnids. Click on the picture or name of the animals below for more information. 
Invertebrates are animals with no internal skeleton or backbone. Invertebrates make up about 95% of all animal species on Earth. Types of invertebrates include annelids, arachnids, cnidaria, crustaceans, echinoderms, insects, mollusks, and protozoa. Exceptions include amphibians, birds, fish, … [Read more...]. Cnidaria are a class of invertebrates found in aquatic or marine environments. The name Cnidaria comes from the Greek word cnidos, meaning stinging nettle. There are about 9,000 species of cnidaria, the most common being the jellyfish, sea anemone, and coral.
Groups of Animals. Because there are so many different types of animals in the world biologists have sorted them into groups. This is called classifying. The two main groups of animals are vertebrates and invertebrates. Vertebrates are all animals with a backbone. Humans have a backbone which is part of their skeleton. A skeleton gives the body support and shape.
Almost all animals fall into one of two groups. Adult vertebrates have a spinal column, or backbone, running the length of the body; invertebrates do not. Vertebrates are often larger and have more complex bodies than invertebrates. However, there are many more invertebrates than vertebrates. 
That's it! There are so many different types of invertebrates that making a list of uniting characteristics is almost impossible. Invertebrates are a very diverse group of species, including: 1  Insects. 2  Spiders. 3  Crustaceans (lobsters and crabs). 4  Worms. 5  Mollusks (squids, snails and clams). 6  Coral