A gastrin test measures the level of the hormone gastrin in the blood. Gastrin is produced by cells, called G cells, in the stomach lining. When food enters the stomach, G cells trigger the release of gastrin in the blood. As blood levels of gastrin rise, the stomach releases acid (gastric acid) that helps break down and digest food. When enough gastric acid has been produced by the stomach, gastrin levels in the blood drop.
What is gastrin? Gastrin is a hormone that is produced by ‘G’ cells in the lining of the stomach and upper small intestine. During a meal, gastrin stimulates the stomach to release gastric acid. This allows the stomach to break down proteins swallowed as food and absorb certain vitamins.
Gastrin. The hormone gastrin is the primary controller of acid secretion in your stomach. Specialized cells in your stomach, known as G cells, produce gastrin in response to the presence of food. Gastrin release from your G cells stimulates acid production by another type of stomach cell called the parietal cell. Foods containing protein are potent stimulants of gastrin production, which leads to vigorous secretion of stomach acid
1 A. increased production of HCl by parietal cells stimulates gastrin secretion. 2  B. gastrin stimulates ECL cells to release histamine. 3  C. somatostatin is an inhibitor of gastrin secretion. 4  D. elevated gastric pH stimulates G cells to release gastrin. 
gastrin. a polypeptide hormone secreted by certain cells of the pylorus, which strongly stimulates secretion of gastric acid and pepsinogen, and weakly stimulates secretion of pancreatic enzymes and gallbladder contraction. gastrin assay. plasma levels are elevated in gastrointestinal disease and other systemic diseases
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gastrin is a peptide hormone that stimulates secretion of gastric acid (HCl) by the parietal cells of the stomach and aids in gastric motility. It is released by G cells in the pyloric antrum of the stomach, duodenum, and the pancreas. Gastrin binds to cholecystokinin B receptors to stimulate the release of histamines in enterochromaffin-like cells, and it induces the insertion of K + /H + ATPase pumps into the apical membrane of parietal cells (which in turn increases H + release into the stomach cavity).