Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Grind a Large Tree Stump! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Large Stump Grinding project. For a basic 1 stump project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Grind a Large Tree Stump ranges between $87.22 - $150.54 per stump.
Tree limb removal costs vary, but it is usually between $50 and $75. Additional services that may be added on for an extra fee include: 1  Stump Removal – Stump removal is almost never included in the price of removing a tree. 2  Unless you pay extra for this service, you will be typically be left with a stump.
DIY Tree Stump Removal Prices. The national average for removing a stump yourself is approximately $100, but it takes an average of three hours to get the job done. Home improvement stores rent out hydraulic stump grinders in half-day and full-day increments.
1 The diameter of the stump helps determine the cost of removing it. 2  You can expect to pay between $60 and $350 per stump. 3  A rotting stump should be cheaper to remove than a healthy, solid stump. 4  Learn more with our Tree Stump Removal Cost Guide.
Stump removal costs will vary depending on a variety of things, most notably whether you do it yourself or hire a professional. By learning about the costs and prices associated with removing a tree stump, you will avoid unpleasant surprises. Learn more about stump removal prices with our cost guide below. The average cost to remove a tree stump ranges from $60 to $350 per stump, depending on various factors like size. The average removal cost breaks down to approximately $2 to $3 per diameter of the stump. If you do it yourself, it may only cost you about $75 to $150.
1 Per Stump -- Some tree removal services will charge a certain amount for the first stump, around $150 for example, and a lower rate for each extra stump, such as $50. 2  Clearing Land -- If you have a large piece of land with a lot of stumps to be removed, a tree removal service may charge by the hour.
1 For example, SKS Stump Grinding in Minnesota charges $1.50 per inch of diameter for the first stump and $1 per inch for additional stumps with a minimum of $35, but with a quantity discount it charged $125 to remove 50 stumps averaging 8 diameter.