Altostratus is formed by the lifting of a large mostly stable air mass that causes invisible water vapor to condense into cloud. It can produce light precipitation, often in the form of virga. If the precipitation increases in persistence and intensity, the altostratus cloud may thicken into nimbostratus. Altostratus most often takes the form of a featureless sheet of cloud but can be wavy (undulatus) as a result of wind shear through the cloud.
Alto. Alto: A prefix to cloud-type names for clouds generally found between 3000 and 7000 metres. Alto comes from the Latin word meaning middle.. E.g., Altostratus. Alto - - Prefix used to define mid-level clouds. Anticyclonic-Rotation opposite the earth 's rotation al sense. In the Norther n Hemisphere, clockwise rotation is anticyclonic. Wind in a ridge or around a high; supergeostrophic.
Cool air can't hold as much water vapor as warm air, so some of the vapor condenses onto tiny pieces of dust that are floating in the air and forms a tiny droplet around each dust particle. When billions of these droplets come together they become a visible cloud. Cirrostratus clouds are thin, sheetlike high clouds that often cover the entire sky. They are so thin that the sun and moon can be seen through them. Cirrostratus clouds usually come 12-24 hours before a rain or snow storm. Cirrocumulus clouds appear as small, rounded white puffs that appear in long rows.
Alto is a section of clouds along side that of nimbus. Alto Clouds are known as altostratus and altocumulus clouds which have a medium altitude from sea level. Altostratus clouds-Sheets of grey or blue clouds, where the sun or moon may appear to be behind frosted class. There is no alto cirrus cloud. The ten major cloud types are: Cirrus (high, wispy clouds. Look feathery) Cirrocumulus (high lumpy clouds) Cirrostratus (high sheety clouds w … ith a halo around the sun.
Cumulus clouds are often called fair-weather clouds. The base of each cloud is flat and the top of each cloud has rounded towers. When the top of the cumulus clouds resemble the head of a cauliflower, it is called cumulus congestus or towering cumulus. Cirrostratus clouds are thin, sheetlike high clouds that often cover the entire sky. They are so thin that the sun and moon can be seen through them. Cirrostratus clouds usually come 12-24 hours before a rain or snow storm. Cirrocumulus clouds appear as small, rounded white puffs that appear in long rows.
Alto is a section of clouds along side that of nimbus. Alto Clouds are known as altostratus and altocumulus clouds which have a medium altitude from sea level. Altostratus clo … uds-Sheets of grey or blue clouds, where the sun or moon may appear to be behind frosted class. 
By Rachelle Oblack. Definition: A middle-level cloud located between 6500 and 20,00 feet, altocumulus clouds are either banded or rounded in formation. Sometimes, they look like balls of cotton stuck into the blue background of the sky, while other times they look like rows. 
Altostratus is a middle altitude cloud genus belonging to the stratiform physical category characterized by a generally uniform gray to bluish-gray sheet or layer. It is lighter in color than nimbostratus and darker than high cirrostratus. It can produce light precipitation, often in the form of virga. If the precipitation increases in persistence and intensity, the altostratus cloud may thicken into nimbostratus. Altostratus most often takes the form of a featureless sheet of cloud but can be wavy (undulatus) as a result of wind shear through the cloud.
Alto Clouds Altostratus clouds are gray or blue-gray mid level clouds composed of ice crystals and water droplets. The clouds usually cover the entire sky. In the thinner areas of the clouds, the sun may be dimly visible as a round disk. Cirrostratus clouds are thin, sheetlike high clouds that often cover the entire sky. They are so thin that the sun and moon can be seen through them. Cirrostratus clouds usually come 12-24 hours before a rain or snow storm. Cirrocumulus clouds appear as small, rounded white puffs that appear in long rows.
Altocumulus (Alto, high, cumulus, heaped) is a cloud belonging to a class characterized by globular masses or rolls in layers or patches, the individual elements bei … ng larger and darker than those of cirrocumulus and smaller than those of stratocumulus. There is no alto cirrus cloud. The ten major cloud types are: Cirrus (high, wispy clouds. Look feathery) Cirrocumulus (high lumpy clouds) Cirrostratus (high sheety clouds w … ith a halo around the sun.