The most likely record holder is the dwarf lantern shark (Etmopterus perryi), males of which measure a total length of 16-17.5 cm (6.3-6.8 in) (with one confirmed male adult specimen collected measuring 19 cm or 7.4 in long), and mature females of which are typcially 19-20 cm (7.4-7.8 in). Due to the difficulties in determining precisely when a small species is sexually mature (i.e. an adult and fully grown), there are two, possibly three, contenders for the smallest spieces of shark.
The Pale Catshark at 8.27 is the smallest shark in the world. The Pale Catshark is a rare cat shark of the Scyliorhinidae family and only specimen found on the Makassar Strait. 
The dwarf lanternshark (Etmopterus perryi) is a little-known species of dogfish shark in the family Etmopteridae and possibly the smallest shark in the world, reaching a maximum known length of 21.2 cm (8.3 in). Perhaps the smallest living shark species, male dwarf lanternsharks mature at a length of 16–17.5 cm (6.3–6.9 in) and females from a length of 15.5 cm (6.1 in) with 19–20 cm (7.5–7.9 in) long pregnant individuals known.
by Katrina Cain. Tweet. The smallest shark in the world is the Dwarf Lanternshark; a dogfish that lives in the Caribbean Sea. They grow to a maximum of 17 centimeters and eat small fish and shrimp. The next smallest shark in the world is the Pygmy Shark that grows up to 25 centimeters long. These sharks are very closely related. They both like to live in deep water and both have bioluminescence; a chemical reaction in their skin that produces light.
The smallest shark, a dwarf lantern shark (Etmopterus perryi) is smaller than a human hand. It's rarely seen and little is known about it, having only been observed a few times off the northern tip of South America at depths between 283–439 meters (928–1,440 feet). 
The smallest known shark, the dwarf lantern shark, is only about 8  inches long. Even so, this little fish has a full set of tiny  teeth, the smallest shark teeth there are. …. 2 people found this useful. 
Sharks come in all sizes. The largest is the whale shark, which has been known to get as large as 18 meters (60 feet). The smallest fits in your hand. And the great white shark is somewhere in the middle. See photos and learn more about the wide diversity of sharks, read 5 reasons to revere sharks, and see even more articles about sharks.
What Is The Smallest Species Of Shark? The world’s smallest shark is said to be the dwarf lantern shark (Etmopterus perryi). When fully grown this shark reaches a length of just 6.7 inches (17cm). The females of this species are slightly larger at 7 1/2 to 8 inches (19 – 20 cm). The shark is a type of fish with a large, long body and predominant dorsal fin. They have a full cartilaginous skeleton and most species of shark have several rows of sharp teeth. They are covered with a layer of dermal denticles that protects their skin from damage and parasites.