Make Employee Schedules in Microsoft Excel. If you are a manager responsible for scheduling employees, you know how complex and tedious it can be to produce a timely work schedule every week. If you schedule too many hours, your profit margin suffers.
Instructions. Open a new spreadsheet in Microsoft Excel. Type Employee Schedule into cell A1 and press Enter.. Type Week of __  into cell A2 and press Enter.. Go to cell A4 and type M (for Monday) without the quotes. Type an employee's name into cell B4 and press the Tab key. Continue adding the remaining employees into separate columns in the same row.
12 Steps to an Excel Employee Shift Schedule. 1  Start Excel, click on the “File” tab. 2  Select “New.”. 3  Double-click the “Schedules” button on the “Available Templates” screen. 4  Double-click the “Business schedules” file folder icon. 5  Double-click a schedule template that matches your scheduling needs.
Open a new spreadsheet in Microsoft Excel. Type Employee Schedule into cell A1 and press Enter.. Type Week of __  into cell A2 and press Enter.. Go to cell A4 and type M (for Monday) without the quotes. Type an employee's name into cell B4 and press the Tab key. Continue adding the remaining employees into separate columns in the same row.
Microsoft Excel allows you to create a work schedule for multiple employees so you can continue to use the schedule template as your business grows. Step 1. Go to Office.Microsoft.com to download a free work schedule template compatible with your computer's version of Microsoft Windows.
Create a work schedule using free Microsoft Excel templates. Schedule work hours, add or delete employees, schedule overtime, and record sick leave, holiday and vacation time. Print out copies for employees or send schedules to employee email accounts. Keep a master schedule for to make any changes.
Get the only excel template for employee scheduling that lets you easily add employees, add shifts, keep track of overtime and forecast your labor costs so you can stay within your budget.
Generate employee schedules with the fastest and most powerful Excel Add-in. Schedule24 Excel Add-in offers rapid shift pattern creation and powerful scheduling capabilities all in one easy to use application.