1 White blood cell types (WBC differential). 2  The major types of white blood cells are neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils. 3  Immature neutrophils, called band neutrophils, are also part of this test. 4  Each type of cell plays a different role in protecting the body. 1 Platelet (thrombocyte) count. 2  Platelets (thrombocytes) are the smallest type of blood cell. 3  They are important in blood clotting. 4  When bleeding occurs, the platelets swell, clump together, and form a sticky plug that helps stop the bleeding.
CBC With Differential / Platelet. CBC is a Complete Blood Count Test. The Differential measures the different percentage of each type of different white blood cell in your blood. Platelet refers to the measurement of how many blood cells you have in your blood. CBC is a Complete Blood Count Test. The Differential measures the different percentage of each type of different white blood cell in your blood
The white blood cell differential is often used as part of a complete blood count (CBC) as a general health check. It may be used to help diagnose the cause of a high or low white blood cell (WBC) count, as determined with a CBC. 
CBC (COMPLETE BLOOD COUNT) WITH DIFF The CBC, also known as a Complete Blood Count, is a test that provides information about certain cells in the blood. It is a very common and important test that is frequently ordered by a physician to check a patient’s general health status. 
A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. Definition. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. 2  White blood cells, which fight infection.
Details. A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the numbers and kinds of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your health professional check any symptoms, such as fatigue, weakness, or bruising, that you may have. Test Results. A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the numbers and kinds of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.
Quantity: * Whole number only. A complete blood count (CBC) is a laboratory test that measures several basic parameters of human blood including the red blood cell counts (erythrocytes), white blood cell counts (leukocytes) and platelets (thrombocytes). A CBC with differential is often ordered to determine a patients general health status
1 White blood cell (WBC) count is a count of the total number of white blood cells in a person's sample of blood. 2  White blood cell differential may or may not be included as part of the panel of tests. 3  It identifies and counts the number of the various types of white blood cells present. 1 The platelet count is the number of platelets in a person's sample of blood. 2  Mean platelet volume (MPV) may be reported with a CBC. 3  It is a calculation of the average size of platelets. 4  Platelet distribution width (PDW) may also