Everyone who listened to Top 40 radio in the '60s knew Lesley Gore's hits - Judy's Turn To Cry, She's A Fool, You Don't Own Me, That's The Way Boys Are and, of course, her first hit, It's My Party, which was produced by Quincy Jones. And today when I sing that song-I don't know, maybe it's after the Anita Hill hearings and a number of other things that have-seem to be happening in our world - You Don't Own Me takes on a whole other set of meanings for me now.
Grace Sewell (known simply as Grace) is an Australian singer and songwriter. She is best known for . You Don't Own Me , a remake of the 1963 Lesley Gore song, produced by Quincy Jones and featuring G-Eazy. The song, a single from her debut album with Regime Music Societe / RCA Records, was a Spotify top 10 most viral track and Australian number 1 hit.
Grace released the single You Don't Own Me in early 2015, her first single with RCA Records. The song is a remake of the 1963 Lesley Gore classic, originally produced by Quincy Jones. Grace recorded the song with G-Eazy, with Quincy Jones returning to co-produce the track. You Don't Own Me , a remake of the 1963 Lesley Gore song, produced by Quincy Jones and featuring G-Eazy. The song, a single from her debut album with Regime Music Societe / RCA Records, was a Spotify top 10 most viral track and Australian number 1 hit.
Lesley Gore-You Don't Own Me, recorded in 1964 found on the album Lesley Gore Sings Of Mixed-Up Hearts. 
The song's lyrics became an inspiration for younger women and played in a major factor in the rise of the second wave feminist movement. Gore said, My take on the song was: I'm 17, what a wonderful thing, to stand up on a stage and shake your finger at people and sing you don't own me. In Gore's obituary, The New York Times referred to You Don't Own Me as indelibly defiant. It was featured in the television show American Horror Story.
RCA’s newest singer Grace has joined forces with G-Eazy and Quincy Jones to recreate Lesley Gore’s hit song “You Don’t Own Me.”. The original track which was released in 1963 was considered one of the first women’s empowerment anthems of the 60s. 
The singer's 1964 hit You Don't Own Me was recently brought back to the fore in the shape of a new PSA featuring Girls showrunner Lena Dunham, Tavi Gevinson, Alexa Chung, Miranda July, Rachel Antonoff and Gore herself telling Mitt Romney and Republicans to back off their reproductive rights. 
+ MORE VIDEOS. The first single from the vocal powerhouse that is GRACE, teams her up with G Eazy and the legendary Quincy Jones for a new version of Lesley Gore’s 1963 hit song “You Don’t Own Me.”. Hailing from Brisbane, Australia with UK roots, GRACE grew up where the sounds of Smokey Robinson to Janis Joplin, and Shirley Bassey to Amy Winehouse, filled her home and fueled her soul. GRACE is currently working on her yet-to-be-titled EP, slated for release this spring, and her cover is TODAY 's Song of the Week.
. You Don't Own Me  is a popular song written by the Philadelphia songwriters John Madara and David White, and recorded by Lesley Gore in 1963, when Gore was 17 years old. The song reached number 2 on the Billboard Pop Singles Chart in the United States (just behind The Beatles '  I Want to Hold Your Hand ). Gore said, My take on the song was: I'm 17, what a wonderful thing, to stand up on a stage and shake your finger at people and sing you don't own me. In Gore's obituary, The New York Times referred to You Don't Own Me as indelibly defiant. It was featured in the television show American Horror Story.
He chose the 1963 hit “You Don’t Own Me because Gore was exactly Grace's age when she and Jones recorded it. Below, watch some exclusive, behind-the-scenes footage of Grace, Jones and G-Eazy in the studio. Watch some exclusive behind-the-scenes footage of Grace, Jones and G-Eazy remaking Lesley Gore's feminist anthem, You Don't Own Me..