Medical Definition of NUCLEUS. 1. : a cellular organelle of eukaryotes that is essential to cell functions (as reproduction and protein synthesis), is composed of nuclear sap and a nucleoprotein-rich network from which chromosomes and nucleoli arise, and is enclosed in a definite membrane. 2.
Animal cell nucleus is a membrane bound organelle. It is surrounded by double membrane. The nucleus communicates with the surrounding cell cytoplasm through the nuclear pores. The DNA in the nucleus is responsible for the hereditary characteristics and protein synthesis. Plant Cell Nucleus. Plant cell nucleus is a double-membrane bound organelle. It controls the activities of the cell and is known as the master mind or the control center of the cell. The plant cell wall has two layers-the outer membrane and the inner membrane, which encloses a tiny space known as perinuclear space.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome. The function of the nucleus is to maintain the integrity of these genes and to control the activities of the cell by regulating gene expression —the nucleus is, therefore, the control center of the cell.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a structure called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. The cell's chromosomes are also housed within the nucleus.
Protons and neutrons are bound together to form a nucleus by the nuclear force. The diameter of the nucleus is in the range of 6985175000000000000♠1.75 fm (6985175000000000000♠1.75×10−15 m) for hydrogen (the diameter of a single proton) to about 6986150000000000000♠15 fm for the heaviest atoms, such as uranium. The nucleus is the small, dense region consisting of protons and neutrons at the center of an atom. The atomic nucleus was discovered in 1911 by Ernest Rutherford based on the 1909 Geiger–Marsden gold foil experiment.
Nucleus of the Cell Think of it as the Control Center or Headquarters of the cell. The nucleus of the cell contains much of the DNA of the cell, and it regulates the act … ivities of that cell, whatever those activities are. Basically it controls everything that happens inside the cell, it's like a boss of the cell. Inside of the nucleus may be an organelle called the nucleolus. This organelle holds the RNA of the cell: it is composed of proteins and nucleic acids. Answer 2 The main functions of nucleus are 3 specific biochemical reactions that control whole life and activities of cells.
The Cell Nucleus: The cell nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is the command center of a eukaryotic cell and is commonly the most prominent organelle in a cell. Distinguishing Characteristics: The cell nucleus is bound by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. Like the cell membrane, the nuclear envelope consists of phospholipids that form a lipid bilayer.
In biology, the nucleus is the control center of a cell which contains hereditary information. It holds DNA and acts as a brain while holding everything that the cell needs to survive inside of it. Inside of the nucleus may be an organelle called the nucleolus. This organelle holds the RNA of the cell: it is composed of proteins and nucleic acids. Answer 2 The main functions of nucleus are 3 specific biochemical reactions that control whole life and activities of cells.