How long can you keep an egg before it has to go into the incubator? I have ordered some eggs and my tray holds 12, but I am receiving extra because of shipping. 
Quail eggs should not be washed. Try not to handle the quail eggs too frequently. When handling quail eggs make sure that hands are washed to avoid bacterial contamination. Before incubation, quail eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. When storing quail eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 13-18 degrees Celsius or 55-65 degrees Fahrenheit. Do not store the quail eggs at ordinary room temperature or in a refrigerator. Avoid placing the quail eggs in a draft when in storage before incubation. Store quail eggs with the small end facing down. Try to keep the quail eggs at the correct humidity prior to incubation which is a humidity of 84-88%. Make sure the stored quail eggs are turned twice daily before they are incubated. Keep the stored quail eggs in an egg carton and prop up one end at a 35 degree angle. Hope this information helps
When incubating quail eggs in a Still Air Incubator, maintain a temperature of 103 degrees. The temperature should be decreased to 100 degrees during the last 1-2 days of incubation. Humidity is also necessary for a successful hatch. However, humidity is difficult to measure in a Still Air Incubator. 
Left: There are many different ways to store quail eggs. Temperature should be keep at 55 to 65 degrees with humidity at 60 to 70%. We have found that the simplest easiest way is to put ice in a cooler, with the eggs placed on a shelf above the ice. This ice chest will hold 1000 with the correct temerature and humidity. We believe it is best to use quail eggs with in 7 days or sooner after laying. After this the hatching percent starts to drop.
I have kept eggs for up to 10 days. I have kept eggs for up to 10 days at 65 to 70 degrees before I have put them in the incubator and also on my counter in a room where the temp stays around 80 degrees. My hatches have had the same success rate except the eggs stored at the warmer temp hatched earlier. how long can you hold on to eggs before they go bad ... i only get 12 eggs a day and i am afraid to keep them longer than 4 day before i try to incubate them, Reply.
When (hatching quail eggs) , keep the temperature at 100 degrees (or as close as possible), and we believe you will be satisfied with all your hatches. Coturnix eggs takes 16 to 18 days to hatch. all else same as bobwhite. Starting with fertile quail eggs is the most important part of all. Start with a good (quality incubator). Humidity. We have found that the humidity needs to be about 45 TO 50% during incubation, and 65-70% during the 23 day of hatching.
Eggs can be kept for about 7 days before incubation, so I will be incubating these eggs in the next few days. If you keep quail and want to ask a question to get some advice or just to chat about your quail then why not join the free farmingfriends quail forum. 
Fertile chicken eggs can be stored up to 10 days (before incubating) with little loss in hatchability – as long as you keep them out of the refrigerator. The ideal storage conditions are 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit and 70 to 75 percent relative humidity. 
Follow the instruction manual that came with the egg incubator to learn how to modify its humidity and temperature settings. The best humidity for hatching quail eggs is 70% humidity while you are incubating the quail eggs. After the quail eggs hatch, adjust the humidity to 80%. The temperature of the incubator should be at approximately 100 degrees fahrenheit. The length of time to hatch fertile quail eggs depends largely upon the type of quail that you are hatching. For example, fertile Bobwhite quail eggs take 24 days to hatch. Brooding Baby Quail: Baby quail need to be placed into a brooder to keep them warm after they hatch.
As it grows, this embryo will need more oxygen and ventilation along with warmth and moisture. What to expect when incubating quail eggs and hatching quail: Not even under natural, fertile conditions would you expect all quail eggs to hatch. With quail breeding, only around 50 to 75% will hatch given the right care. Conditions in an egg incubator: Without the mother quail to provide a natural moist and warm environment for eggs to successfully hatch, incubating quail can be simulated by many commercial and homemade incubators and hatchers.