Salivary Glands and Saliva. 1  parotid glands-produce a serous, watery secretion. 2  submaxillary (mandibular) glands-produce a mixed serous and mucous secretion. 3  sublingual glands-secrete a saliva that is predominantly mucous in character. 4  serous cells, which secrete a watery fluid, essentially devoid of mucus. Salivary Glands and Saliva. In the histologic sections of canine salivary gland shown above, the cells stained pink are serous cells, while the white, foamy cells are mucus-secreting cells. Photo Credit: Credit: Richard Bowen. Saliva is produced in and secreted from salivary glands.
Salivary Glands and Saliva. Saliva is produced in and secreted from salivary glands. The basic secretory units of salivary glands are clusters of cells called an acini. These cells secrete a fluid that contains water, electrolytes, mucus and enzymes, all of which flow out of the acinus into collecting ducts. Acini in the parotid glands are almost exclusively of the serous type, while those in the sublingual glands are predominantly mucus cells. In the submaxillary glands, it is common to observe acini composed of both serous and mucus epithelial cells.
1 submaxillary (mandibular) glands-produce a mixed serous and mucous secretion. 2  sublingual glands-secrete a saliva that is predominantly mucous in character. 3  serous cells, which secrete a watery fluid, essentially devoid of mucus. 4  mucous cells, which produce a very mucus-rich secretion. Salivary Glands and Saliva. In the histologic sections of canine salivary gland shown above, the cells stained pink are serous cells, while the white, foamy cells are mucus-secreting cells. Photo Credit: Credit: Richard Bowen. Saliva is produced in and secreted from salivary glands.
1 parotid glands-produce a serous, watery secretion. 2  submaxillary (mandibular) glands-produce a mixed serous and mucous secretion. 3  sublingual glands-secrete a saliva that is predominantly mucous in character. Salivary Glands and Saliva. In the histologic sections of canine salivary gland shown above, the cells stained pink are serous cells, while the white, foamy cells are mucus-secreting cells. Photo Credit: Credit: Richard Bowen. Saliva is produced in and secreted from salivary glands.
Print. The salivary glands produce saliva to moisten the mouth, to help protect teeth from decay and to digest food. The three major salivary glands are the parotid gland, submandibular gland (also called the submaxillary gland), and sublingual glands. Saliva drains into the mouth through small tubes called ducts. 1  The parotid gland makes 25% of the saliva and drains into the mouth near the upper teeth.
Acini in the parotid glands are almost exclusively of the serous type, while those in the sublingual glands are predominantly mucous cells. In the submaxillary glands, it is common to observe acini composed of both serous and mucous epithelial cells. Salivary Glands and Saliva. In the histologic sections of canine salivary gland shown above, the cells stained pink are serous cells, while the white, foamy cells are mucus-secreting cells. Photo Credit: Credit: Richard Bowen. Saliva is produced in and secreted from salivary glands.
The salivary glands in mammals are exocrine glands, glands with ducts, that produce saliva. They also secrete amylase, an enzyme that breaks down starch into maltose. There are 800-1000 minor salivary glands located throughout the oral cavity within the submucosa of the oral mucosa in the tissue of the buccal, labial, and lingual mucosa, the soft palate, the lateral parts of the hard palate, and the floor of the mouth or between muscle fibers of the tongue.
Most animals have three major pairs of salivary glands that differ in the type of secretion they produce: 1  parotid glands produce a serous, watery secretion. 2  submaxillary (mandibular) glands produce a mixed serous and mucous secretion. 3  sublingual glands secrete a saliva that is predominantly mucous in character. Acini in the parotid glands are almost exclusively of the serous type, while those in the sublingual glands are predominantly mucus cells. In the submaxillary glands, it is common to observe acini composed of both serous and mucus epithelial cells.
We call the major salivary glands the parotid, submandibular, and sublingual glands. They all secrete saliva into your mouth, the parotid through tubes that drain saliva, called salivary ducts, near your upper teeth, submandibular under your tongue, and the sublingual through many ducts in the floor of your mouth. Salivary gland problems that cause clinical symptoms include: Obstruction: Obstruction to the flow of saliva most commonly occurs in the parotid and submandibular glands, usually because stones have formed. Symptoms typically occur when eating.