Modbus Protocol is a messaging structure developed by Modicon in 1979. It is used to establish master-slave/client-server communication between intelligent devices. It is a de facto standard, truly open and the most widely used network protocol in the industrial manufacturing environment.
Since Modbus TCP/IP is simply Modbus protocol with a TCP wrapper, it is very simple for existing Modbus devices to communicate over Modbus TCP/IP. A gateway device is required to convert from the current physical layer (RS232, RS485 or others) to Ethernet and to convert Modbus protocol to
Modbus is used in multiple master-slave applications to monitor and program devices; to communicate between intelligent devices and sensors and instruments; to monitor field devices using PCs and HMIs. Modbus is also an ideal protocol for RTU applications where wireless communication is required.
Modbus is a communication protocol developed by Modicon systems. In simple terms, it is a method used for transmitting information over serial lines between electronic devices. The device requesting the information is called the Modbus Master and the devices supplying information are Modbus Slaves.
Modbus is a serial communication protocol developed by Modicon published by Modicon in 1979 for use with its programmable logic controllers (PLCs). In simple terms, it is a method used for transmitting information over serial lines between electronic devices.
Modbus is not industry specific and is used across a wide range of industries. The common denominator is the messaging structure that all devices support. In response to customer demand, the semiconductor industry has implemented a Network Communication Standard and an Object Messaging Protocol using Modbus TCP/IP.
Modbus RTU is an open, serial (RS-232 or RS-485) protocol derived from the Master/Slave architecture. It is a widely accepted protocol due to its ease of use and reliability. Modbus RTU is widely used within Building Management Systems (BMS) and Industrial Automation Systems (IAS).
Modbus TCP/IP is an Internet protocol. The fact that TCP/IP is the transport protocol of the Internet automatically means that Modbus TCP/IP can be used over the Internet. It was designed to reach this goal.