Confidence votes 85. About 40 different languages are spoken in Uganda. The official language is English and Swahili was approved as a second official language in 2005. The most widely used local language is Luganda, but Lusoga, Runyankore and Bantu are used extensively in some areas.
They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish).
Non, je ne parle pas francais. Français the only official language Of … franc e Is. french86 % Of french (adults over age) 18 Said french was the primary language spoken in the, home when they were aged one to. Five, but due to immigration there are several other languages spoken by a substantial percentage of the. population
Upon Uganda's independence in 1962, English was maintained as the official language, as it was already rooted deeply in administration, media, and education. Also, Uganda's ethnolinguistic diversity made it difficult to choose another language as the official language of Uganda.
About 40 different languages are spoken in Uganda. The official language is English and Swahili was approved as a second official language in 2005.
Facts About Uganda. On this page you will find out facts about Uganda, its population, languages spoken and much more... Uganda is a landlocked country in East Africa, stretching along the equator between the Democratic Republic of Congo and Kenya.
Since a national language of Uganda is English, you should do fine just saying  Hello  In case you are traveling to other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa or elsewhere in the world, here are some more helpful words from our Uganda Greetings category: Fine, thank you.
Swahili is also widely spoken and is used as a trade language throughout the East African region. Thanks to Uganda's important economic bonds with Kenya and Tanzania, Swahili has grown in popularity, and was designated in 2005 by the Ugandan Parliament as the country's second official language.
Children's stories. Belonging to many ethnic groups, Ugandans speak over 30 different African languages. English and Swahili are the country’s official languages. Swahili is a useful communication link with the country’s Eastern neighbours of Kenya and Tanzania, where it's also spoken.