the home of the Blarney Stone. Built nearly six hundred years ago by one of Ireland's greatest chieftans, Cormac MacCarthy, and has been attracting attention ever since. Over the last few hundred years, millions have flocked to Blarney making it a world landmark and one of Ireland's greatest treasures. Now that might have something to do with the Blarney Stone, the legendary Stone of Eloquence, found at the top of our tower. Kiss it and you'll never again be lost for words. Welcome to Blarney Castle,
The Stone of Eloquence. For over 200 years, world statesmen, literary giants, and legends of the silver screen have joined the millions of pilgrims climbing the steps to kiss the Blarney Stone and gain the gift of eloquence. Its powers are unquestioned but its story still creates debate. The Stone itself is still set in the wall below the battlements. To kiss it, one has to lean backwards (holding on to an iron railing) from the parapet walk. The prize is a real one as once kissed the stone bestows the gift of eloquence. Some say it was Jacob’s Pillow, brought to Ireland by the prophet Jeremiah.
The stone was set into a tower of the castle in 1446. The castle is a popular tourist site in Ireland, attracting visitors from all over the world to kiss the stone and tour the castle and its gardens. The word blarney has come to mean clever, flattering, or coaxing talk. For he is a pilgrim from the Blarney stone.. Echoing the supposed power of the stone, an Irish bard of the early 19th century, Francis Sylvester Mahony, added a number of (humorous) lines to Richard Alfred Millikin's . The Groves of Blarney  (right).
Kissing Ireland’s Blarney Stone, a tradition that’s been around for several centuries, is said to give a person the gift of eloquence and persuasiveness. The iconic stone is set in a wall of Blarney Castle, constructed in 1446 by Dermot McCarthy, king of Munster, on the site of a demolished 13th century castle. Various legends surround the Blarney Stone’s origins.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Blarney (disambiguation) . Blarney (Irish: an Bhlarna, meaning the little field) is a town and townland in County Cork, Ireland. It lies 8 km (5.0 mi) north-west of Cork and is famed as the site of Blarney Castle, home of the legendary Blarney Stone
By kissing the Blarney Stone at Blarney Castle, it is claimed that one can receive the Gift of the Gab (eloquence, or skill at flattery or persuasion). Blarney (Irish: an Bhlarna, meaning the little field) is a town and townland in County Cork, Ireland.
Welcome to the Blarney Stone! The Blarney Stone Castle in County Cork Ireland, is famous for housing the “Blarney Stone” which gives the “gift of gab” to all who kiss it. A pub, formally known as a “Public House” in Ireland, is a place to meet and greet and is the focal point of the community. Put the two together and you have the Blarney Stone Irish Pub & Restaurant in West Chester. Here, hardworking townspeople, university students, and passersby, share in joyful conversations while enjoying fine food and spirits.
Where Dorchester Meets. An institution set in the heart of Boston's largest neighborhood, The Blarney Stone has served the people of Dorchester for over 35 years. 
The Blarney Stone. The Blarney Stone (Irish: Cloch na Blarnan) is a block of Carboniferous limestone built into the battlements of Blarney Castle, Blarney, about 8 kilometres (5 mi) from Cork, Ireland. For he is a pilgrim from the Blarney stone.. Echoing the supposed power of the stone, an Irish bard of the early 19th century, Francis Sylvester Mahony, added a number of (humorous) lines to Richard Alfred Millikin's . The Groves of Blarney  (right).
The Blarney Stone is a neighborhood bar that was purchased in 1989 by Steve Dorsey and his late sister, Judy Dorsey. By putting together a web site, the Blarney Stone staff hopes to provide our customers past, present and future, the opportunity to keep up with upcoming events, changing beer selections and, of course, our pub menu.