Instructions. Unplug all hardware connected to your computer. Remove CDs or DVDs from the CD/DVD-ROM drive. Click the Windows Start menu and select the Lock icon. Select Restart from the pop-up menu to restart your computer. Press and hold the F8 before Windows resumes or displays its logo. This launches the Advanced Boot Options screen. If you do not see this screen, restart your computer and press the F8 key again. Scroll down the Advanced Boot Options screen and select the Safe Mode option you want to use, then press Enter.. Select Safe Mode with networking if you want to use your network connection while your computer is in Safe Mode
If the computer can boot into the Vista operating system, follow the steps below to enter Safe Mode. Click Start, type msconfig in the search field, and then press the enter to open the System Configuration window. On the General tab of the System Configuration window, select Diagnostic startup. On the Boot tab, select Safe boot and click OK. When prompted, click Restart to start the computer in Safe Mode. If the computer does not restart automatically, press the Power button to turn the power on. On the Tools tab of the System Configuration window, select and launch the desired diagnostic tool. Enter Safe Mode at startup. Follow the steps below to start Windows Vista in Safe Mode. Remove all CDs and DVDs from the computer. Restart the computer. At the first screen on restart, before the HP or Windows logo appears, press the f8 key repeatedly. When prompted, select the Safe Mode with Networking option
Entering Safe Mode without access to Startup Settings. In some cases, the Startup Settings option on the Advanced options screen does not display. Open Windows in safe mode using Command Prompt. Turn on your computer and repeatedly press the esc key until the Startup Menu opens. When you have entered Safe Mode using Command Prompt, restarting your computer does not exit Safe Mode. If your computer is stuck in Safe Mode, use the following steps to return to normal operation. View a video of exiting Safe Mode in Windows 8. View this video in full screen on YouTube.
Entering Safe Mode from Windows 10. Click Start, and then click Settings. The Settings menu opens. Click Update & security. Click Recovery, and then under Advanced startup, click Restart now. Entering Safe Mode without access to Startup Settings. In some cases, the Startup Settings option on the Advanced options screen does not display. Open Windows in safe mode using Command Prompt. Turn on your computer and repeatedly press the esc key until the Startup Menu opens. Begin a System Recovery by pressing F11.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Normally you access Safe Mode by pressing F8 as your computer boots then selecting it from the list of options. If you find that you are often using Safe Mode, you may want to add it to the list of options at the boot menu. This way you do not have to press F8 when you want to access it. 
Windows 7 Safe Mode loads only necessary drivers and software while the computer is booting up. Loading only necessary drivers and software prevents the computer from booting up programs that are causing errors on your machine. Once you are finished working in Safe Mode, restart your computer to boot your HP Pavilion up normally. Click the Start icon on the Windows taskbar. Click the arrow to the right of Shutdown, then click Restart.. Press and hold the F8 key while your computer boots up to access the Advanced Boot Options menu. Highlight Safe Mode using the arrow keys on the keyboard, then press Enter.
Choose the safe mode option you want from the Startup Settings menu: Press the F4 key for Enable Safe Mode. Safe Mode starts Windows with a minimal set of drivers and services. Press the F5 key for Enable Safe Mode with Networking. When you have entered Safe Mode using Command Prompt, restarting your computer does not exit Safe Mode. If your computer is stuck in Safe Mode, use the following steps to return to normal operation. View a video of exiting Safe Mode in Windows 8. View this video in full screen on YouTube.