The nutriseal Nasogastric Aspiration Tube (NGAT) is a is a standard nasogastric tube that is uniquely designed to dramatically reduce the chance of gastric reflux while also providing enteral feeding. 
Nasogastric (NG) Tube You are being fed through a nasogastric tube. This feeding tube is positioned from your nose to your stomach. Daily Care Nasogastric Tube It is important to keep your nasogastric tube in good condition to avoid unnecessary replacement of the tube. Regular care and flushing of the tube will help to prevent the tube becoming blocked. Important Notes: Never administer anything through the nasogastric tube until you are sure the tube is in the correct place (the stomach).If you are unable to confirm correct position by pH measurement contact your nurse or GP immediately for advice.
nasogastric intubation, the placement of a nasogastric tube through the nose into the stomach to relieve gastric distension by removing gas, gastric secretions, or food; to instill medication, food, or fluids; or to obtain a specimen for laboratory analysis. the flexible tube with a rounded end is passed through the nasal cavity to the stomach; the technique requires expert knowledge and care to avoid damage to the nasal conchae and mucosa and to avoid passing medicines or feed into the lungs.
Nasogastric medications. Patients who have a nasogastric (NG) tube in place are commonly given medications through the tube. If a medication is not available in liquid form, you must first crush it or open the capsule and empty the powder or granules and then dissolve the medication in a facility-approved-fluid. 
The mechanisms responsible for aspiration in patients bearing a nasogastric feeding tube are (1). loss of anatomical integrity of the upper and lower esophageal sphincters, (2). increase in the frequency of transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations, and (3). PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Aspiration is one of the most common complications in enterally fed patients. The source of aspiration is due to the accumulation of secretions in the pharynx of reflux gastric contents from the stomach into the pharynx.
RECENT FINDINGS: There is evidence in the literature showing that the presence of a nasogastric feeding tube is associated with colonization and aspiration of pharyngeal secretions and gastric contents leading to a high incidence of Gram-negative pneumonia in patients on enteral nutrition. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Aspiration is one of the most common complications in enterally fed patients. The source of aspiration is due to the accumulation of secretions in the pharynx of reflux gastric contents from the stomach into the pharynx.
Nasogastric intubation, the insertion of a tube through the nose into the stomach or small intestine, is also done to temporarily feed certain patients. In this case, material is not suctioned out. Nasogastric suction involves removing solids, liquids, or gasses from the stomach or small intestine by inserting a tube through the nose and suctioning the gastrointestinal material through the tube.
nasogastric intubation. the flexible tube with a rounded end is passed through the nasal cavity to the stomach; the technique requires expert knowledge and care to avoid damage to the nasal conchae and mucosa and to avoid passing medicines or feed into the lungs.
A nasogastric tube is a narrow bore tube passed into the stomach via the nose. It is used for short-or medium-term nutritional support, and also for aspiration of stomach contents-eg, for decompression of intestinal obstruction. A wide bore tube is used if drainage is needed; otherwise, a finer bore tube is used. 1 In the absence of a positive aspirate test, where pH readings are more than 5.5, or in a patient who is unconscious or on a ventilator, an X-ray must be obtained to confirm the initial position of the nasogastric tube.