As the ribosome moves along the mRNA molecule, the tRNA in the P site is released and the tRNA in the A site is translocated to the P site. The A binding site becomes vacant again until another tRNA that recognizes the new mRNA codon takes the open position. 
In brief, protein synthesis begins in the nucleus, where the protein-coding instructions from the genes are transmitted indirectly through messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA), a transient intermediary molecule similar to a single strand of DNA. This mRNA is moved from the nucleus to the cellular cytoplasm, where it serves as the template for protein synthesis. The cells protein-synthesizing machinery (ribosomes) then translates the codons into a string of amino acids that will eventually constitute the protein molecule.
This genetic information is found in the nucleus, though protein synthesis actually occurs in ribosomes found in the cytoplasm and on rough endoplasmic reticulum. If protein is to be synthesised, then the genetic information in the nucleus must be transferred to these ribosomes. 
The DNA appears as swirls in the center of the cell, and the ribosomes appear as dark particles at the cell periphery.Courtesy of Dr. Abraham Minsky (2014). All rights reserved. Ribosomes are the sites in a cell in which protein synthesis takes place. Cells have many ribosomes, and the exact number depends on how active a particular cell is in synthesizing proteins. For example, rapidly growing cells usually have a large number of ribosomes (Figure 5). After the transcription of DNA to mRNA is complete, translation — or the reading of these mRNAs to make proteins — begins. Recall that mRNA molecules are single stranded, and the order of their bases — A, U, C, and G — is complementary to that in specific portions of the cell's DNA.
Protein synthesis is the process during which the chemical instructions on genes are used by a living cell to make proteins. It is a highly complex procedure that involves a great number of chemical reactions, both inside and outside the nucleus, which are catalyzed by a host of enzymes and cofactors. This mRNA is moved from the nucleus to the cellular cytoplasm, where it serves as the template for protein synthesis. The cells protein-synthesizing machinery (ribosomes) then translates the codons into a string of amino acids that will eventually constitute the protein molecule.
Proteins synthesized on these ribosomes collect in the endoplasmic reticulum for transport throughout the cell. Ribosomes: Ribosomes are packets of RNA and protein that play a crucial role in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. They are the site of protein synthesis. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Actually, proteins are synthesized in the ribosome. RNA is produced in the nucleus, then sent to the ribosome to be broken down into amino acids, or proteins. The cytoplasm is more of a way to keep the cell's shape and has not much other purpose. DNA is made in the nucleus as well. 
The DNA of the cell contains the blueprints for all the proteins in the body. These blueprints become proteins with the help of RNA and ribosomes. Follow along with this lesson to learn about the two major phases of protein synthesis: transcription and translation. The mRNA meets up with a ribosome, and we start the second phase of protein synthesis known as translation, which is the process by which ribosomes create proteins from information contained in mRNA.
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. Protein synthesis begins at a start codon AUG near the 5' end of the mRNA. mRNA binds to the P site of the ribosome first. The ribosome is able to identify the start codon by use of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the mRNA in prokaryotes and Kozak box in eukaryotes.
The organelle which is the site of protein synthesis for the cell is the ribosome. DNA in the nucleus has the code for building protein, mRNA picks up the code and … brings it to the ribosome where the code is translated into a sequence of amino acids that makes up specific proteins. 1 person found this useful. Answered. For the purpose of this questi … on the actual synthesis occurs at the Ribosomes as these are small multiple part cellular machines that interpret (Translate) RNA into the final proteins. This question implies a bound site however and the Ribosomes can be free moving in the cytoplasm of the cell.