Medical Definition of FETOR HEPATICUS. : a characteristically disagreeable odor to the breath that is a sign of liver failure. What made you want to look up fetor hepaticus?
Fetor hepaticus: Introduction. Fetor hepaticus: faecal breath due to mercaptans which pass directly into the lung. See detailed information below for a list of 7 causes of Fetor hepaticus, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Fetor hepaticus: Causes | Symptom Checker ». Conditions listing medical symptoms: Fetor hepaticus: The following list of conditions have ' Fetor hepaticus ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete.
fetor he·pat·i·cus. n. A peculiar odor of the breath in individuals with severe liver disease caused by volatile aromatic substances that accumulate in the blood and urine. 
1 4. Fetor hepaticus has been found in the urine of patients with liver disease and also in that of normal controls. 2  Temporary sterilization of the intestinal tract did not cause a decrease of excretion of fetor in the urine in 2 of 3 cases. 1 The odor “fetor hepaticus” has certain characteristics which allow its identification on the breath of some patients with various forms of liver disease. 2  It was not noted in normal controls. 3  2. 4  Fetor hepaticus was noted twice as frequently in patients with jaundice not of obstructive origin as in those with obstruction.
fetor hepaticus. Definitions: 1. a peculiar odor to the breath in people with severe liver disease; caused by volatile aromatic substances that accumulate in the blood and urine due to defective hepatic metabolism. Synonyms: liver breath. The definition information for fetor hepaticus is provided by Stedman's.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Fetor hepaticus is a distinctive breath odor associated with hepatic encephalopathy, a condition resulting from the accumulation of toxins in the blood stream that compromises brain function. Treatment is dependent on removing the toxins from one’s blood. Individuals with fetor hepaticus and hepatic encephalopathy usually have a significantly high concentration of ammonia in their system. Adjusting diet to limit high protein foods can help reduce ammonia levels in the blood
1 1. 2  The odor “fetor hepaticus” has certain characteristics which allow its identification on the breath of some patients with various forms of liver disease. 3  It was not noted in normal controls. 1 The odor “fetor hepaticus” has certain characteristics which allow its identification on the breath of some patients with various forms of liver disease. 2  It was not noted in normal controls. 3  2. 4  Fetor hepaticus was noted twice as frequently in patients with jaundice not of obstructive origin as in those with obstruction.
The compound dimethyl sulfide has been associated with it, raising the possibility of an objective noninvasive measure of liver failure. Furthermore, the volatile dimethyl sulfide is thought by some researchers to be the main contributor to the odor of fetor hepaticus. 