Lard is pig fat in both its rendered and unrendered forms. Lard was commonly used in many cuisines as a cooking fat or shortening, or as a spread similar to butter. Its use in contemporary cuisine has diminished, but many contemporary cooks and bakers still favor it over other fats for select uses. The culinary qualities of lard vary somewhat depending on the part of the pig from which the fat was taken and how the lard was processed.
Lard. Photo © Maximilian Stock Ltd./Getty Images. Leaf lard is the highest grade of lard (lard is rendered pork fat; the term is usually used to refer to rendered pork fat suitable for cooking). It comes from the visceral (or soft) fat from around the kidneys and loin of the pig
Processed lard is a pure, white lard that is made from pure pork fat that is melted down, filtered and clarified. The lard can be melted (rendered) commercially in any of the following ways: The lard is then bleached and hydrogenated, and has preservatives added. Sometimes it is also emulsified. Fat from beef is referred to as beef tallow or suet.. For cooking, lard has been treasured for centuries upon centuries amongst Northern Europeans and Chinese. Now, in many people's minds, Lard is so far out of fashion that they wouldn't allow it into their grocery carts, let alone their homes.
There are several grades available. The finest is leaf lard, which comes from the area around the kidneys of the pig. Back lard is another high grade, while rendered fat from other parts of the pig is less desirable. To make it, either a wet or dry rendering process is used. Wet lard is made by steaming or boiling fat. Since the fat is not water soluble, it will float to the top, and the cook can simply skim it off
Industrially-produced lard, including much of the lard sold in supermarkets, is rendered from a mixture of high and low quality fat sources from throughout the pig. To improve stability at room temperature, lard is often hydrogenated. The culinary qualities of lard vary somewhat depending on the part of the pig from which the fat was taken and how the lard was processed.
Lard is the rendered fat of a pig, and it can be used in cooking and baking. Historically, it has been a popular cooking ingredient, although it acquired a stigma in parts of the West in the 20th century. Back lard is another high grade, while rendered fat from other parts of the pig is less desirable. To make it, either a wet or dry rendering process is used. Wet lard is made by steaming or boiling fat.
Lard is fat from a pig. It may or may not be rendered. Fat from beef is referred to as beef tallow or suet.. For cooking, lard has been treasured for centuries upon centuries amongst Northern Europeans and Chinese. Now, in many people's minds, Lard is so far out of fashion that they wouldn't allow it into their grocery carts, let alone their homes.