Although it may seem difficult, lowering your breathing speed will help to lower your heart rate. Take a breath for 5-8 seconds, hold it for 3-5 seconds, and then exhale slowly for a count of 5-8 seconds.
A normal resting heart rate should be between 60 and 100 beats per minute. A rate of more than 90 is, however, considered high. 1  The resting heart rate of well trained endurance athletes can be between 40 and 60 beats per minute. 2  Test your rate over a few days to get an average.
Resting heart rate, or pulse, refers to the number of times your heart beats per minute when you are at rest. Though a normal range is 50 to 100, most people’s hearts beat 60 to 80 times a minute. Above 100 is considered a rapid pulse, called tachycardia; an unusually slow resting heart rate is called bradycardia.
I think you should increase the intensity of your cardio. If your walking on the treadmill now, start jogging or running. Do it for about 45 minutes and try to do it 5x a week. Its going to take months and months and months. It might take 6 months to a year, but it does work, I did it and my resting heart rate dropped.
If you are just starting to train and your resting heart rate is high, you need to start with lower intensity training. Use a heart rate monitor and start off at 65% of the calculation, 220-your age.
In the worlds of physical fitness and cardiac health your resting heart rate – the number of times your heart beats per minute when you are sitting quietly – is as important as getting your heart into the “zone” for maximum calorie burning efficiency.
Generally speaking, your resting heart rate should be no higher than 70 bpm (beats per minute), and having a higher one, according to an Italian survey, can increase the risk of dying from heart disease by up to 78%.
Monitor your heart rate during exercise. To keep track of your heart rate during exercise just take your pulse or your wrist or neck. Count for fifteen seconds and multiply the number by four. When you are exercising you want to keep your heart rate between 50% and 85% of your maximum.
Before you start taking action to try to lower your resting heart rate, it's important to know what your starting point is. To do this you just need to take your pulse and count the beats. You can do this at the carotid artery (in the neck) or at the wrist.