Most of the GM foods produced so far have been obtained from GM plants. Some examples of GM foods are corn plants with a gene that makes them resistant to insect attack, or soybeans with a modified fatty acid content that makes the oil better suited for frying. All genetically modified (GM) foods intended for sale in Australia and New Zealand must undergo a safety evaluation by Food Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ).
Some genetically modified foods are designed to improve nutrition, quality and taste. For example, potatoes are modified to even out distribution of starches, enhance texture and reduce fat absorption. Genetically modified golden rice has more beta-carotene and iron that consumers in malnourished populations need. Nutrition and Safety Concerns. Despite added nutrition values, there are concerns about genetically modified foods. The alteration of certain nutrients can lead to unexpected changes in a food's other nutrients, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
Soybeans, corn and canola are the most common genetically modified crops. With 93 percent of soybeans and 70 percent of corn grown in the United States genetically modified, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture, you're probably eating genetically modified foods regularly. Nutrition and Safety Concerns. Despite added nutrition values, there are concerns about genetically modified foods. The alteration of certain nutrients can lead to unexpected changes in a food's other nutrients, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
Less Nutrient Dense-with the modification of foods now a days. GMO foods contain nutrients that can’t fuel your body, and contain less nutrients. Examples of genetically modified food. Honey-Honey can be produced from GM crops. Some Canadian honey comes from bees collecting nectar from GM canola plants. This has shut down exports of Canadian honey to Europe. Genetically modified foods cause many harmful effects to the body. From when these genetically modified foods are seeds they are created with pesticides. These pesticides effect our cell reproduction, and cause
According to the World Health Organization, Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally.... Scientists modified bacteria to produce chymosin, which was also able to clot milk, resulting in cheese curds. Microbial enzymes became the first application of genetically modified organisms in food production and were approved in 1988 by the US Food and Drug Administration.
According to the EU, GMO refers to plants and animalsin which the genetic material has been altered in a way that does not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination.. 1) Corn. Almost 85 perecent of corn grown in the U.S. is genetically modified. Canola is genetically engineered form was approved in 1996, and as of 2006, around 90 percent of U.S. canola crops are genetically modified. 6) Sugar Beets. A very controversial vegetable, sugar beets were approved in 2005, banned in 2010, then officially deregulated in 2012.
Genetically modified foods or GM foods, also genetically engineered foods, are foods produced from organisms that have had changes introduced into their DNA using the methods of genetic engineering. Scientists modified bacteria to produce chymosin, which was also able to clot milk, resulting in cheese curds. Microbial enzymes became the first application of genetically modified organisms in food production and were approved in 1988 by the US Food and Drug Administration.
Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally, e.g. through the introduction of a gene from a different organism. 
Genetically modified crops (GMCs, GM crops, or biotech crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering techniques. In most cases the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species. 