A. Many women have bothersome symptoms related to menopause. These can include hot flashes, night sweats, difficulty sleeping, and vaginal dryness. Other symptoms that might relate to menopause include mood changes, difficulty with memory, incontinence, and fatigue
March 7, 2011 -- Traditional Chinese acupuncture may be useful in reducing the severity of hot flashes and other symptoms of menopause, a new study suggests. Researchers in Turkey conducted experiments with 53 postmenopausal women. Half of them received traditional acupuncture treatment. A five-point scale was used to measure the severity of hot flashes, vaginal dryness, urinary symptoms, mood swings, and other symptoms in the
Evidence that Acupuncture and Herbal Medicine have been used for women's health can be found in early medical literature dating back to 3AD. Traditional Chinese Medicine does not recognize menopause as one particular syndrome. Stanford Medical Center researchers are now studying whether acupuncture can help alleviate hot flashes. During the one-year, placebo-controlled study at Stanford, volunteers may receive 10 treatments over an eight-week period.
This meta-analysis confirms that acupuncture improves hot flash frequency and severity, menopause-related symptoms, and quality of life (in the vasomotor domain) in women experiencing natural menopause. Let’s take a close look at the results, however. A newly published meta-analysis of studies looking at acupuncture for symptoms resulting from natural menopause (not drug or surgically induced) by Chiu et. al. is entirely negative. That is not what the authors or the press release conclude, however.
The change in hormone levels during the perimenopause and menopause, particularly the decline in levels of oestrogen, can cause acute menopausal symptoms; for example, about 30-70% of women in Western countries will experience vasomotor symptoms, such as hot flushes and night sweats (Freeman 2007; Melby 2005). Menopause 2010; 17: 262-8. The researchers concluded that acupuncture can contribute to a more rapid reduction in hot flushes and increase in health-related quality of life in postmenopausal women, but probably has no long-term effects.
In these cases, perimenopausal symptoms, such as hot flashes and night sweats may be experienced by women in their mid 30's to early 40's. In Western society, these symptoms are considered a normal and unavoidable part of menopause; however, this belief is untrue. Kath Bartlett, LAc practices at the Asheville Center for Chinese Medicine, located in downtown Asheville. Kath is a nationally certified Diplomate of Acupuncture and Herbology. She received a Master's of Science in Traditional Oriental Medicine from the prestigious, Pacific College of Oriental Medicine.
Many health conditions can cause hot flashes, but they are most common among women going through menopause. The study found that menopausal women who underwent acupuncture experienced a reduction in the severity and frequency of hot flashes for up to 3 months. The review suggests that acupuncture may be an effective alternative for reducing hot flashes, especially for those women seeking non-pharmacologic therapies.. A 2012 study, also published in the journal Menopause, suggested that hypnosis can also minimize the occurrence of hot flashes during menopause by around 75%.
Perimenopause relief from night sweats, hot flashes, insomnia, irritability, irregular periods, dryness. Acupuncture best treatment resolves these symptoms. Menopausal syndrome Menopause Perimenopause Premenopause. 
ACUPUNCTURE. Acupuncture is an effective way to relieve and treat symptoms of perimenopause and menopause. Specific points on the foot help treat the spleen and kidney, by addressing the yin and qi. Perimenopause is the period in a woman’s life when her body is preparing for menopause. During a woman’s thirties, her hormone production begins to slow down and continues to diminish, as she grows older.
With the right diet, attitude, and Oriental Medicine menopause can be a time of a revival of energy and an opportunity for personal growth--one that surpasses the hormonally driven period of adolescence. Stanford Medical Center researchers are now studying whether acupuncture can help alleviate hot flashes. During the one-year, placebo-controlled study at Stanford, volunteers may receive 10 treatments over an eight-week period.