Blenheim (/ˈblɛnɪm/ ; Māori: Waiharakeke) is the most populous town in the region of Marlborough, in the north east of the South Island of New Zealand. It has an urban population of 30,200 (June 2014 estimate). The surrounding area is well known as a centre of New Zealand's wine industry. Blenheim sits at the confluence of the Taylor and Opawa rivers. It is in a tectonically active zone and experiences several (usually small) earthquakes each year. The boundary between the Pacific plate (on which Blenheim sits) and the Indo-Australian plate passes just north of Blenheim.
At the 2006 census, Blenheim had a population of 28,700, a change of 7.0% since the 2001 census. The June 2014 estimate put Blenheim's population at 30,200. Following the 2013 census, Blenheim became the country's 17th main urban area, after Statistics New Zealand promoted the town from a secondary urban area. Blenheim sits at the confluence of the Taylor and Opawa rivers. It is in a tectonically active zone and experiences several (usually small) earthquakes each year. The boundary between the Pacific plate (on which Blenheim sits) and the Indo-Australian plate passes just north of Blenheim.
The sunny town of Blenheim is an ideal base for those who want to explore the local wine and food culture. Bike around the vineyards or catch a tour. Blenheim is situated in the heart of wine-growing Marlborough. It is one of the sunniest towns in New Zealand, with an estimated average of 2,438 hours of sunshine a year. Mountains frame the area and trap the summer heat (temperatures over 30°C are quite normal in February and March). 
The Battle of Blenheim (referred to in some countries as the Second Battle of Hoechstaedt), höchstädt fought on 13 august, 1704 was a major battle of The war of The Spanish. Succession the Overwhelming allied victory ensured the safety Of vienna from The-Franco bavarian, army thus preventing the collapse of The Grand. alliance Part of the Battle of Blenheim tapestry at Blenheim Palace by Judocus de Vos. In the background is the village of Blenheim; in the middle ground are the two water mills that Rowe had to take to gain a bridgehead over the Nebel. The foreground shows an English grenadier with a captured French colour.
The Battle of Blenheim (referred to in some countries as the Second Battle of Hoechstaedt), höchstädt fought on 13 august, 1704 was a major battle of The war of The Spanish. succession Part of the Battle of Blenheim tapestry at Blenheim Palace by Judocus de Vos. In the background is the village of Blenheim; in the middle ground are the two water mills that Rowe had to take to gain a bridgehead over the Nebel. The foreground shows an English grenadier with a captured French colour.
Blenheim is on the Main North Line, the northern part of the unofficially-named South Island Main Trunk Railway. The Coastal Pacific, the daily summer-only long-distance passenger train between Picton and Christchurch, stops at Blenheim Railway Station. Blenheim sits at the confluence of the Taylor and Opawa rivers. It is in a tectonically active zone and experiences several (usually small) earthquakes each year. The boundary between the Pacific plate (on which Blenheim sits) and the Indo-Australian plate passes just north of Blenheim.
AKC Ch Sheeba Magic Kingdom (18 months). When you breed a Blenheim to a Blenheim you always receive Blenheim puppies. The genetic make-up of a Blenheim is ee:ss. Blenheim is the easiest color genectic make-up for Cavalier King Charles Spaniels. When you breed Blenheim to Tri Color you can receive both Blenheim or Tri Color. When a Blenheim is being bred to a Ruby which does not carry the white gene all the puppies will be ruby and some white mismarking is possible.
Blenheim has gone down in history as one of the turning points of the War of the Spanish Succession. Bavaria was knocked out of the war, and Louis's hopes for a quick victory came to an end. France suffered over 30,000 casualties including the commander-in-chief, Marshal Tallard, who was taken captive to England. Part of the Battle of Blenheim tapestry at Blenheim Palace by Judocus de Vos. In the background is the village of Blenheim; in the middle ground are the two water mills that Rowe had to take to gain a bridgehead over the Nebel. The foreground shows an English grenadier with a captured French colour.
Established in 2000 by owner Dave Matthews, Blenheim Vineyards is located 20 minutes southeast of Charlottesville. With three vineyard sites growing seven varieties, the goal at Blenheim Vineyards is to make high quality wines that reflect the climate, soil, and beauty of the surrounding piedmont landscape. 