Please try again later. Understanding Superpave Mix Design-Federal Highway Administration 1995 - Video VH-353 - Superpave, Superior Performing Asphalt Pavements, is presented as the mix design system for the next century. Its two components are described: performance-based asphalt binder specification and volumetric mix design and analysis. The Superpave gyratory method of laboratory compaction is also shown. More detailed explanations are provided for the performance-graded ratings and the Superpave aggregate gradation methods. 
Superpave stands for SUperior PERforming Asphalt PAVEment and was developed through a Federal government program whose goal was to relate characteristics of hot mix asphalt (HMA) to pavement performance. The result was the Superpave system for the design and analysis of asphalt mixes. The change involved a switch from the old Hveem design method to the Superpave design method. Generally, this results in a paving mix which is coarser, has less sand, and less liquid asphalt. It does  lay down differently than the old B,C or D mixes.
C mix vs. SUPERPAVE. In 1998, the MaineDOT changed its method of designing hot mix for Maine roads. The change involved a switch from the old Hveem design method to the Superpave design method. Generally, this results in a paving mix which is coarser, has less sand, and less liquid asphalt. It does  lay down differently than the old B,C or D mixes.
Performance Tests. The original intent of the Superpave mix design method was to subject the various trial mix designs to a battery of performance tests akin to what the Hveem method does with the stabilometer and cohesiometer, or the Marshall method does with the stability and flow test. Superpave software (or a stand-alone program such as LTPPBind) is used to calculate these extremes and select the appropriate PG asphalt binder using one of the following three alternate methods (Roberts et al., 1996 [1]): 1  Pavement temperature. 2  Air temperature. 3  Geographic area.
The Superpave mix design system evaluates the volumetric properties of the compacted samples. These properties include air voids (Va), voids in mineral aggregate (VMA) and voids filled with asphalt binder (VFA), and dust to binder ratio. This Technical Brief provides an overview of the intent of the Superpave volumetric mix design and provided information on the process to follow to evaluate the potential effects of changes to the gyration level or volumetric requirements.
Superpave, short for superior performing asphalt pavement, is a pavement system designed to provide longer lasting roadways. Key components of the system are careful selection of binders and aggregates, volumetric proportioning of ingredients, and evaluation of the finished product. A machine laying asphalt concrete, fed from a dump truck. Asphalt concrete (commonly called asphalt, blacktop, or pavement in North America, and tarmac or bitumen macadam in Great Britain and Ireland) is a composite material commonly used to surface roads, parking lots, and airports. It consists of mineral aggregate bound together with asphalt, laid in layers, and compacted
Superpave involves a volumetric mix design aimed at resisting wear and cracking due to low temperatures and a liquid-binder specification. In the late 1990s, one-third of all … hot-mix asphalt projects were Superpave. 2 people found this useful. Superpave stands for SUper PERfoming Asphalt PAVEment. It is a performance based standard of test procedures for Asphalt concrete. Generally, one will either use Superpave or Marshall.
Superpave Binder Specification History The Superpave Binder specification and the supporting test procedures are products of the Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP), a 5-year research effort (1987 to 1992) which targeted $50 million for asphalt research. 
One of the principal results from the Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP) was the Superpave mix design method. The Superpave mix design method was designed to replace the Hveem and Marshall methods. The volumetric analysis common to the Hveem and Marshall methods provides the basis for the Superpave mix design method. Superpave software (or a stand-alone program such as LTPPBind) is used to calculate these extremes and select the appropriate PG asphalt binder using one of the following three alternate methods (Roberts et al., 1996 [1]): 1  Pavement temperature. 2  Air temperature. 3  Geographic area.