Infants and children under the age of 2 flying on an adult's lap, referred to as lap children by most airlines, must travel with proof of age, such as a birth certificate, to ensure they meet the airline's minimum and maximum age requirements for a lap child. 
1 US Airways: Infants under age two may travel as lap children on international flights. 2  Lap children may require a paper ticket and may have to pay 10% of the published available adult fare, in addition to taxes and surcharges. 1 For international travel, an infant may be required to have a ticket to travel as a lap child.. 2  Infants occupying a seat are subject to the full adult fare. 3 
Report Abuse. Children under age 2 can fly in the parents' lap for free or for a fee in most parts of the world. Once the child reaches their 2nd birthday, they have to occupy a seat. Some foreign airlines allow children to return still in the adults' lap, if they turned two during the trip. up to two years of age, or if they can sit comfortably in your lap. If you ask your flight attendant ahead of time if there will be any empty seats, a lot of times they will allow your child an empty seat next to you, if the flight isn't full.
Unaccompanied Minor Program. The Unaccompanied Minor Program is required for all children 5-14 years old when not traveling in the same compartment with an adult who is at least 18 years old or the child's parent/legal guardian. The program is optional for children 15-17 years old. 
Acceptance of accompanied children under two years. Children under the age of two traveling within the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands with a parent or with an adult 18 years or older can travel on the adult's lap free of charge. If there are two or more children under the age of two traveling with the same adult, only one of the children may travel as a lap child. Any additional children are required to have tickets for their own seats.
A “lap child” is where children under age two are allowed to fly for “free” (here in the United States) if they sit on an adult’s lap the entire flight. Parents sometimes book a lap child hoping that the plane isn’t sold out so they can use an empty seat in their row. 
1 United Airlines: Infants under age two may travel as lap children on domestic flights. 2  For international travel, an infant may be required to have a ticket to travel as a lap child.. 3  Infants occupying a seat are subject to the full adult fare. 1 For international travel, an infant may be required to have a ticket to travel as a lap child.. 2  Infants occupying a seat are subject to the full adult fare. 3  US Airways: Infants under age two may travel as lap children on international flights.
Since children vary in size, it's recommended that parents travel with the child's birth certificate if he or she is between one and two years of age. Most airlines require children under two to be accompanied by an adult over 18 years of age. Seating Options. If the child meets the age requirement, parents are not required to buy a kid's airline ticket for a domestic flight as long as the child is traveling with a paying ticketed adult. Instead, children under two can legally ride on the parent's lap. For international flights, lap children may have to pay 10 percent of the adult fare and taxes and surcharges may be applicable. The airline might even require them to have a paper ticket purchased at the 10 percent rat