Breeding-If you plan on breeding your sugar gliders, it is first recommended that you do a lot of research and that you own them for a minimum of a year. You should understand the daily needs, behaviors, personalities, how to bond and what to do in an emergency among other things before you consider breeding. If you are planning on getting a sugar glider, please do your research first. These animals require specialized care that you need to be aware of before you bring them home.
Sugar Gliders: Prices and Availability. SunCoast sold sugar gliders to the public for over 15 years, so we have a lot of experience with glider care and behavior. We started out when few people had ever heard of sugar gliders, never mind wanted to own one! 
Being a responsible sugar glider owner begins with choosing the right place to get them. There are a lot of places that sell sugar gliders that should really be avoided, so it is important to know how to tell the good places from the bad. I will talk about the best places to get sugar gliders first, and then I will go over the kinds of places you should stay away from. The best place to start is to look for a good breeder in your area.
You should absolutely never buy sugar gliders on impulse! They are exotic animals that require special care and are not as easy to take care of as a hamster or guinea pig. Any seller who tries to convince you that they are easy to care for should be avoided. I will talk about the best places to get sugar gliders first, and then I will go over the kinds of places you should stay away from. The best place to start is to look for a good breeder in your area.
Sugar gliders get stressed easily in pet stores and it can take them a lot longer to adjust to their new environment once you bring them home. They usually aren’t handled much since they are nocturnal and pet stores are usually closed when they are up and active. This might make it harder to bond with your glider. I will talk about the best places to get sugar gliders first, and then I will go over the kinds of places you should stay away from. The best place to start is to look for a good breeder in your area.
Any reputable breeder will be able to tell you the local laws in your area regarding the purchase and ownership of Sugar Gilders. See 7 Reasons not to buy a Sugar Glider online or from a Pet Shop While any animal with teeth CAN bite, the simple fact is that Sugar Gliders RARELY do. The exceptions are juvenile or adult animals that were never properly bonded with their owners. 
THINK RESCUE FIRST!!! Before you buy sugar gliders, consider all of the gliders that are abandoned or unwanted that need homes. It is much better to adopt gliders from a rescue. There is usually a modest adoption fee per animal. 
So, whether you are looking for sugar gliders for sale in Houston TX, or perhaps even sugar gliders for sale in Austin TX, and even a sugar glider in San Antonio, look no further than The Pet Glider. When it comes time to look for sugar glider toys and sugar glider supplies, be sure to visit us again. We are a world-renowned, USDA licensed breeder of sweet and tame sugar gliders. When you buy a sugar glider or other glider supplies from us, you can be sure that you are getting only the highest quality products. Founded by Priscilla Price, The Pet Glider has over fifteen years of experience in raising healthy, happy sugar gliders to add to your family!
A: After verifying your local and state laws regarding sugar gliders, your first step is deciding which sugar gliders you want. The Pet Glider offers a wide variety of sugar gliders of different ages, colors, and genetic backgrounds, and we can find you the perfect furry friend to fit your needs. A: While you are able to buy a single sugar glider from us, we do highly recommend that you buy two or more if you don't already have one at home. Sugar gliders are social animals, and truly thrive in the presence of other gliders.