Degree Programs. Veterinary technicians and veterinary technologists have the option to complete two-year and four-year degrees, respectively, though a degree is not required in some states. The two-year program is offered by community colleges under program names such as animal science or veterinary science..
A veterinary technician is (according to the American Veterinary Medical Association and the statutes in many states) a person who has a degree in veterinary technolog … y from an AVMA accredited veterinary technology program and has met all of their state's requirements for credentialing as a veterinary technician. In most states an associates degree or higher from an American Veterinary Medical Association accredited veterinary technology program is required.
Even though veterinary technicians may be confused with veterinary assistants at a clinic, technicians are required to have graduated from an American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) approved veterinary technician school and obtained state licensure in all states in the country. Veterinary Technician. While veterinary technicians do not go through the required graduate program to become full-fledged veterinarians, many veterinary technicians can run medical tests, take x-rays and even administer medicine while under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
Educational Requirements and Training Information. A 2-year associate's degree in veterinary technology equips students with the knowledge and skills necessary to work as veterinary technicians. Alternately, an associate's degree program for animal science may offer veterinary technology as an area of emphasis. While both occupations share some of the same job responsibilities, a veterinary technician requires less education. A typical degree program completed by a veterinary technician lasts for two years and is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).
To become a veterinary technician, you must be the graduate of a 2-year or 4-year program from an AVMA-accredited school. For a list of AVMA accredited schools, click here. Most states also require technicians to pass the Veterinary Technician National Examination (VTNE) to be considered credentialed. To find out more about credentialing, click here. Visit the AAVSB website to learn specific requirements for your state
Veterinary technicians are required (in most states) to have a 2  year degree in veterinary technology from an AVMA accredited  veterinary technology program, to have passed … the Veterinary  Technician National Exam and a state exam in order to be  credentialed. In most states an associates degree or higher from an American Veterinary Medical Association accredited veterinary technology program is required.
Typically, entry-level veterinary technician positions require at minimum a two-year associate degree. There are more than 100 schools accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (see: What is the AVMA?) where interested individuals can prepare for this exciting and rewarding career choice. Over a dozen schools around the country offer veterinary technology programs which are longer and culminate in a bachelor degree in veterinary technology. Several veterinary schools offer courses via online distance learning. Licensure and Certification Requirements. Graduation from an AVMA accredited veterinary school program allows students to take the credentialing exam in any state in the country. Each State regulates veterinary technicians and technologists differently; however, all states require passing a credentialing exam following college completion
Veterinary Technician Education Requirements and Training Info. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a veterinary technician. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and training to find out if this is the career for you. While both occupations share some of the same job responsibilities, a veterinary technician requires less education. A typical degree program completed by a veterinary technician lasts for two years and is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).