Fixmapi.exe file information. The process known as FIXMAPI (version 1.0 MAPI Repair Tool) belongs to software Microsoft Windows Operating System by Microsoft (www.microsoft.com). Description: Fixmapi.exe is not essential for the Windows OS and causes relatively few problems. If fixmapi.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\Windows, the security rating is 2% dangerous. The file size is 14,336 bytes. It is a Windows system file. Fixmapi.exe is a trustworthy file from Microsoft.
Fixmapi.exe is a type of EXE file associated with MSDN Windows Server 2003 Standard & Enterprise developed by Microsoft for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Fixmapi.exe is 1.0.0.0, which was produced for Windows. The most common fixmapi.exe errors that can appear on a Windows-based computer are:  1 Fixmapi.exe Application Error..  2 Fixmapi.exe is not a valid Win32 application..  3 Fixmapi.exe has encountered a problem and needs to close.
During the installation of Internet Explorer 5, the Fixmapi.exe file is copied to the Windows\System folder. Fixmapi.exe checks the version of a library file named Mapi32.dll and automatically restores a more recent version of Mapi32.dll if necessary. To check the Mapi32.dll file, click Start, point to Find, click Files or Folders type mapi32.dll in the Named box, and then click Find Now. When the Mapi32.dll file is located, right-click the file and then click Properties. Check to see if the Read-Only check box is selected.
fixmapi.exe is part of Microsoft Exchange and developed by Microsoft Corporation according to the fixmapi.exe version information. 
fixmapi.exe is a process associated with Microsoft® Windows® Operating System from Microsoft Corporation. Non-system processes like fixmapi.exe originate from software you installed on your system. Since most applications store data in your system's registry, it is likely that over time your registry suffers fragmentation and accumulates invalid entries which can affect your PC's performance. To stop fixmapi.exe permanently uninstall 'Microsoft® Windows® Operating System' from your system. Uninstalling applications can leave invalid registry entries, accumulating over time. Run a free scan to find out how to optimize software and system
The Fixmapi.exe tool is included with Internet Explorer 5 to detect and aid in resolving conflicts with Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) files that may affect your ability to send and receive mail and faxes from other programs. To check the Mapi32.dll file, click Start, point to Find, click Files or Folders type mapi32.dll in the Named box, and then click Find Now. When the Mapi32.dll file is located, right-click the file and then click Properties. Check to see if the Read-Only check box is selected.
This file is part of Microsoft® Windows® Operating System. Fixmapi.exe is developed by Microsoft Corporation. It’s a system and hidden file. Fixmapi.exe is usually located in the %SYSTEM% sub-folder and its usual size is 3,072 bytes. 
Fixmapi.exe with description IE - 03 is a process file from company Microsoft Corporation belonging to product Microsoft® Windows® Operating System. The file is digitally signed from Microsoft Windows Publisher-VeriSign Time Stamping Services Signer. 
EXE (executable) files, such as fixmapi.exe, are files that contain step-by-step instructions that a computer follows to carry out a function. When you double-click an EXE file, your computer automatically executes these instructions designed by a software developer (eg. Microsoft) to run a program (eg. The most common fixmapi.exe errors that can appear on a Windows-based computer are:  1 Fixmapi.exe Application Error..  2 Fixmapi.exe is not a valid Win32 application..  3 Fixmapi.exe has encountered a problem and needs to close.
fixmapi.exe (FIXMAPI 1.0 MAPI Repair Tool) is an executable from the software Microsoft Exchange version 5.5.0 by Microsoft Corporation. fixmapi.exe version 5.5.0 is most commonly found under the directory dllcache with a creation date of December 7, 1999. 