Welcome to Parklands College and Christopher Robin Pre-Primary. The privilege of parenthood brings with it the responsibility of planning for the future of our children. Difficult decisions must often be made, with the only guideline being the fact that whatever choices we make, our children deserve only the best. At home, we ensure that the values we instil equip them for the future.
Student Works. SPARK is Parkland College's open-access digital repository. It is the home of the rich body of scholarly and creative work of Parkland College students, faculty, administration, and staff. SPARK promotes and showcases these works, and facilitates their global discovery. 
At 1 p.m. today (October 8, 2015), Parkland College will observe the National Moment of Silence honoring the victims of the shooting at Umpqua Community College. The Parkland College Men's Soccer team routed visiting Lincoln College 7-1 yesterday. The win keeps the Cobras on top of the M-WAC standings with a one game lead over Illinois Central. The Cobras face a team from Olivet Nazarene Saturday at 11am.
Parkland College is a two-year community college in Champaign, Illinois, a member of the Illinois Community College System serving Community College District 505. It lies in close proximity to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Its off-campus locations for instruction include Parkland College on Mattis at 1307-1319 N. Mattis Avenue, and the Collision Repair Training Center at 31 E. Kenyon Road, both in Champaign.
Home: Academics. Along with Parkland College's high academic standards and innovative programs, you'll find professors who know your name. You’ll also find the learning support you need to earn a degree or certificate; just ask your instructor or walk over to the Center for Academic Success. Real-world learning in an environment that cares about you: that’s what you’ll find at Parkland.
The college opened its new campus in July 1998. The college draws learners from Parklands, Table View, Blouberg, Melkbosstrand, Milnerton, Durbanville, Plattekloof, Sunset Links, Atlantic Beach and Darling. Parklands College offers a range of sports. Preparatory learners participate annually in the Storzners Gala at Milnerton Primary School as well as the Bridgehouse Gala hosted by Bridgehouse School in Franschhoek. The college sends learners on tours both nationally and internationally.
The college is managed by a board of directors represented by the managing director. Parklands College operates through two legal entities namely, Roth Education Services (Pty) Ltd trading as Parklands College and Christopher Robin Pre-Primary (Est1980) and Rosavean Investments 0052 (Pty) Ltd. Parklands College offers a range of sports. Preparatory learners participate annually in the Storzners Gala at Milnerton Primary School as well as the Bridgehouse Gala hosted by Bridgehouse School in Franschhoek. The college sends learners on tours both nationally and internationally.
Parklands College and Christopher Robin Pre-Primary are private schools situated in Parklands, Cape Town. Parklands College offers a range of sports. Preparatory learners participate annually in the Storzners Gala at Milnerton Primary School as well as the Bridgehouse Gala hosted by Bridgehouse School in Franschhoek. The college sends learners on tours both nationally and internationally.
Home: Athletics. Next up for the Cobras will be a top-10 showdown with #5 Iowa Western (9-1-2) at 4:00 this Friday at Parkland. PC is 1-1-1 this year against the top 10 defeating Monroe College, tying Lewis and Clark, and losing to Iowa Central in overtime. 