A prostatectomy is a surgical procedure for the partial or complete removal of the prostate. It may be performed to treat prostate cancer or benign prostatic hyperplasia. A common surgical approach to prostatectomy includes making a surgical incision and removing the prostate gland (or part of it). 
Simple prostatectomies are typically only done for benign conditions. A radical prostatectomy, the removal of the entire prostate gland, the seminal vesicles and the vas deferens, is performed for malignant cancer. Other terms that can be used to describe a prostatectomy, include. 1  Nerve-sparing: the blood vessels and nerves that promote penile erections are left behind in the body and not taken out with the prostate.
Prostate Cancer: Radical Prostatectomy. Radical prostatectomy is an operation to remove the prostate gland and tissues surrounding it. This usually includes the seminal vesicles and some nearby lymph nodes. Radical prostatectomy can cure prostate cancer in men whose cancer is limited to the prostate. 
A prostatectomy is the surgical removal of part or all of the prostate. The prostate is a walnut-sized gland in men that produces a portion of the fluid that makes up semen. It lies in front of the rectum, under the bladder, and surrounds the urethra. A simple prostatectomy involves making a cut from your belly button to your pubic bone to access and remove the inside of the prostate gland. Radical prostatectomy is the removal of the entire prostate and some of the lymph nodes near it to help treat prostate cancer.
Removing the prostate gland (radical prostatectomy). A radical prostatectomy means an operation to remove the whole prostate gland. It is a common operation for prostate cancer. The operation used to be called total prostatectomy. A specialist surgeon removes the prostate through a cut made in your abdomen or between the testicles and the back passage. Robotic assisted prostatectomy is a new type of keyhole (laparoscopic) surgery for prostate cancer. It is also called da Vinci surgery. A surgeon uses a special machine (robot) during the operation. Doctors need to have special training before they can carry out this type of surgery.
Radical Prostatectomy. Guide. A radical prostatectomy is an operation to remove the prostate gland and some of the tissue around it. It is done to remove prostate cancer. This operation may be done by open surgery. Or it may be done by laparoscopic surgery through small incisions. Laparoscopic surgery may be done by hand. Erection problems are one of the serious side effects of radical prostatectomy. The nerves that control a man's ability to have an erection lie next to the prostate gland. They often are damaged or removed during surgery. Sometimes these nerves can be spared during surgery to preserve erections.
Removing the prostate gland. Removing the prostate gland is called a radical prostatectomy. It is a common operation for treating prostate cancer. It used to be called total prostatectomy. This means using surgery to remove the whole prostate gland. Robotic assisted prostatectomy is a new type of keyhole (laparoscopic) surgery for prostate cancer. It is also called da Vinci surgery. A surgeon uses a special machine (robot) during the operation. Doctors need to have special training before they can carry out this type of surgery.
Prostatectomy (Greek, - prostates, prostate, combined with the suffix-ektomē, excision) is a medical term for the surgical removal of all or part of the prostate gland. This operation is done for benign conditions that cause urinary retention, as well as for prostate cancer and other cancers of the pelvis. Other terms that can be used to describe a prostatectomy, include. 1  Nerve-sparing: the blood vessels and nerves that promote penile erections are left behind in the body and not taken out with the prostate.
Prostatectomy includes a number of surgical procedures to remove part or all of the prostate gland. The prostate gland is situated in the lower abdomen of men, below the urinary bladder. It surrounds the urethra, which carries urine from the bladder to the penis. There are different types of prostatectomy, depending on the treatment involved: Radical prostatectomy is surgery to remove the entire prostate gland and surrounding lymph nodes. This surgery is a treatment for men with localized prostate cancer.