Normal ranges for factor VIII levels are 50 to 150 percent. If your factor VIII activity level is less than 50 percent, you may have hemophilia A, but how severe your risk of bleeding depends on what percentage you have. If you have normal to decreased level of factor VIII, you may have von Willebrand disease.
Factor VIII is produced in liver sinusoidal cells and endothelial cells outside of the liver throughout the body. This protein circulates in the bloodstream in an inactive form, bound to another molecule called von Willebrand factor, until an injury that damages blood vessels occurs. Factor VIII (FVIII) is an essential blood-clotting protein, also known as anti-hemophilic factor (AHF). In humans, factor VIII is encoded by the F8 gene. Defects in this gene results in hemophilia A, a recessive X-linked coagulation disorder
Tissue factor, also called platelet tissue factor, factor III, thromboplastin, or CD142 is a protein present in subendothelial tissue and leukocytes necessary for the initiation of thrombin formation from the zymogen prothrombin. Together with factor VIIa, tissue factor forms the tissue factor or extrinsic pathway of coagulation. This is opposed to the intrinsic (amplification) pathway which involves both activated factor IX and factor VIII.
Factor VIII participates in blood coagulation; it is a cofactor for factor IXa which, in the presence of Ca 2+ and phospholipids forms a complex that converts factor X to the activated form Xa. The factor VIII gene produces two alternatively spliced transcripts. Factor VIII (FVIII) is an essential blood-clotting protein, also known as anti-hemophilic factor (AHF). In humans, factor VIII is encoded by the F8 gene. Defects in this gene results in hemophilia A, a recessive X-linked coagulation disorder
Factor VIII expression in liver disease. Hollestelle MJ(1), Geertzen HG, Straatsburg IH, van Gulik TM, van Mourik JA. Author information: (1)Department of Plasma Proteins, Sanquin Research at CLB, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
Entrez Gene Summary for F8 Gene. This gene encodes coagulation factor VIII, which participates in the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation; factor VIII is a cofactor for factor IXa which, in the presence of Ca+2 and phospholipids, converts factor X to the activated form Xa. 
High factor VIII levels are a common risk factor for venous thrombosis 27 30 31 and may also be associated with the risk of arterial thrombosis in coronary heart disease 32 33 and stroke. 34. The regulation of plasma factor VIII levels is complex. Most factor VIII circulates as a complex with von Willebrand factor (vWF), 35 36 the levels of which are known to be dependent on factors such as blood group 37 38 39 and endothelial stimulation. The prevalence of elevated factor VIII levels is high: 25% of patients with a first episode of deep-vein thrombosis and 11% of healthy control subjects have factor VIII levels ≥150 IU/dL. 27 The estimated population-attributable risk for factor VIII levels ≥150 IU/dL is ≈16%.
(2) Factor VIIIc—the functional attribute of factor VIII that is absent in factor-VIII deficiency (haemophilia A) and measured by standard coagulation techniques. (3) Factor VIII (in current use)—the protein that is defective or absent in factor-VIII deficiency (haemophilia A). 2. a preparation of factor VIII administered intravenously for the prevention or treatment of hemorrhage in patients with hemophilia A and the treatment of von Willebrand disease, hypofibrinogenemia, and coagulation factor XIII deficiency.
1. factor VIII, one of the coagulation factors. 2. a preparation of factor VIII administered intravenously for the prevention or treatment of hemorrhage in patients with hemophilia A and the treatment of von Willebrand disease, hypofibrinogenemia, and coagulation factor XIII deficiency.