She did. Answer 2. The song was written by Adele Adkins and Dan Wilson and reached number one in the UK singles charts. Adele and musician Dan Wilson.
The songwriter hooked up with Adele after being recruited by 21 co-producer Rick Rubin, who had previously enlisted Wilson's services on other projects by Dixie Chicks and Josh Groban. Most of 21 's lyrics refer to Adele working through the ending of a relationship.
Ok, to be precise, Adele co-writes her own songs, working with songwriters including Ryan Tedder and Dan Wilson. But unlike pop stars like Katy Perry and Rihanna, Adele doesn’t pick a ready-made song that someone else has written from start to finish.
Like 19, the 21 title refers to Adele's age at the time the songs were written. The British singer explained on her website that the album knocked me for six when writing it.. She added: It's different from 19, it's about the same things but in a different light.
This is a song by English singer-songwriter Adele, from her second album, titled 21. She premiered the song on November 16, 2010 on Later Live with Jools Holland, and it took off from there, reaching an audience that welcomed a song without synthesizers, Auto-Tune, or any kind of production sheen.
The song was written and produced by Adele and British producer Paul Epworth, who is best known for manning the boards for Bloc Party and Florence and the Machine, and also for his work on Everything Is New, the second release from Adele's chum, Jack Penate. peñate
AllMusic Review by Matt Collar. Adele 's 2009 debut album, 19, was a Grammy-winning smash hit that revealed the British singer/songwriter's knack for bittersweet soul and folk-infused love songs that brought to mind an infectious mix of Dusty Springfield and Terry Callier.
Lovesong (sometimes listed as  Love Song) is the tenth track on Adele 's album 21. It is a song originally recorded by the English alternative rock band The Cure, released as the third single from their eighth studio album Disintegration in 1989.