They can also survive in dry areas with sufficient food and water sources. These insects favor temperatures between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. When an American cockroach population infests a human home, the insects are drawn to food storage and preparation areas, as well as moist locations. 
We know of some 4,000 species of cockroaches on the planet, but only about 30 of these can be considered pests. Most cockroaches inhabit niche habitats in forests, caves, burrows, or brush. 2. Cockroaches can eat just about anything, and can survive without food for long periods of time. Cockroaches are scavengers. While most roaches prefer sweets given a choice, in a pinch, they will eat just about anything: glue, grease, soap, wallpaper paste, leather, bookbindings, or even hair. Their answers typified how most people feel about roaches: stomp, ewww, and  Joe's Apartment!  I'm here to tell you that cockroaches are not all that bad. In fact, they're rather cool. Here are 10 facts about cockroaches that might persuade you to think differently about these insects. 1.
Roaches can only live without water for 1 month. They can survive without food for 3 months. well it depends on where your at if you are in the desert a day without water and three days without food if you are in the USA you can live up to three days without water and … five days without food.
They can live at least 10 days with no water, food or new air. At school we had a cockroach in a sealed jar for that long and it was still going strong. it can live for a year without food and water. Cockroaches can't really live without their head. They can live up to 10 days without it, though. They just only live 10 since they can't get water and food.
the roaches(or cockroaches) live up to a year. I have been taking care of a cockroach for 18 months (so far) after my cats took one of his legs and and antennae (and no the … y do not grow back). I feed him organic mixed berry powder and dried cat food crushed up into cockroach bite sizes. well it depends on where your at if you are in the desert a day without water and three days without food if you are in the USA you can live up to three days without water and … five days without food.
Worse yet, a cockroach can survive a remarkably long time without food. Some species can go as long as 6 weeks without a meal! These traits make cockroaches in our homes tough to control. Their answers typified how most people feel about roaches: stomp, ewww, and  Joe's Apartment!  I'm here to tell you that cockroaches are not all that bad. In fact, they're rather cool. Here are 10 facts about cockroaches that might persuade you to think differently about these insects. 1.
1 vote Vote for this answer. American cockroaches have been known to live up to three months without food and a month without water. Some other species can live for a month without food and water. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cockroach. 
Roaches are one of the most difficult insects to get rid of and are live bearers but I do not know how long they live. I have killed them with a blowlamp by there hundreds in a boilerhouse but they still came back for more so they are not very brainy. WENDEL HOMES · 7 years ago. 
Product Description. Dubia roaches can go weeks without food but they can’t survive long without water. Water crystals are an excellent way to hydrate your roach colony. This is especially true for those who don’t provide a constant supply of fresh fruits and vegetables to their colonies