Russell Island in Redland City is the biggest of the Southern Moreton Bay Islands, situated between the mainland and North Stradbroke Island in the state of Queensland, Australia. The island is eight kilometres long (north-to-south) and nearly three kilometres wide. A basic survey of the island was conducted by Robert Dixon in 1839. He named the island after Lord John Russell the Secretary of State for the Colonies in the 1840s. The island was first settled by Europeans in 1866, when John Campbell was granted a lease on the northern end of the island closely followed by John Willes and his family. Land auctions commenced in 1870
A quiet haven situated between the busier Nassau/Paradise Island and Harbour Island, Pelican Bay, Russell Island/Spanish Wells offers peaceful tranquility, with easy access via The North Eleuthera International Airport/White Crown Aviation (ELH) and Bahamas Fast Ferries Service from Nassau. This is true here in Spanish Wells and Russell Island. There are a lot of boats but few places to tie. Pelican Bay has created a unique situation where you can buy a concrete bulkhead dock and a vacant lot to build a cottage where you can look out at your boat even when you are not going fishing that day.
1 2-bedrooms Properties for sale in Russell Island. 2  3-bedrooms Properties for sale in Russell Island. 3  4-bedrooms Properties for sale in Russell Island. 4  5-bedrooms Properties for sale in Russell Island. 1 1-bedroom Properties for sale in Russell Island. 2  2-bedrooms Properties for sale in Russell Island. 3  3-bedrooms Properties for sale in Russell Island. 4
The history of Russell Island and the Hawaiian people are intertwined and this connection began with the Northwest Coast fur trade. In the late 1700s, Hawaiian, or Kanaka as they are known in their language, became involved in the maritime fur trade. ). In 2009, Gulf Islands National Park Reserve initiated a new volunteer host program at Russell Island in collaboration with the descendents of Maria Mahoi. Through a volunteer agreement with the park reserve, the Mahoi descendents share their family stories about life on Russell Island with visitors.
Maria Mahoi had previously lived on Salt Spring Island with her first husband Captain Abel Douglas and their seven children. In 1902, Maria moved to Russell Island with her second husband George Fisher. George Fisher was the child of a English father and a Cowichan mother. ). In 2009, Gulf Islands National Park Reserve initiated a new volunteer host program at Russell Island in collaboration with the descendents of Maria Mahoi. Through a volunteer agreement with the park reserve, the Mahoi descendents share their family stories about life on Russell Island with visitors.
Russell Islands. The Russell Islands are two small islands (Pavuvu and Mbanika), as well as several islets, of volcanic origin, in the Central Province of Solomon Islands. They are located approximately 48 km (30 mi.) northwest from Guadalcanal. The islands are partially covered in coconut plantations, and have a copra and oil factory at Yandina. Yandina also has basic services, including a store, post office, and airport.
Welcome, Russell Island. Russell Island is a small, private island on the St. Clair River in the state of Michigan. The island is located between Algonac and Walpole Island, in Ontario, Canada, and is due north of Harsens Island. It is considered the northernmost extension and includes two smaller islands: Anderson Island on the Northwest, and The Gold Coast on the Southwest. The island is accessible only by the Russell Island Ferry or by private watercraft and is home to about 125 cottages.
Recently a proposal for a bridge across to Russell Island, Qld has resurfaced. Councillor Mark Edwards of the Redland City Council discusses the proposal. For more info go to www.localnotices.com.au... Qld South East... Bay Islands... Notices. 1  Sports. 
By the 1870s, the Kanaka began settling in the Gulf Islands. In 1886 William Haumea, a Kanaka settler, received a certificate of purchase and a Crown Grant for Russell Island. Haumea already had land at Eleanor Point on Salt Spring Island and was expanding to Russell Island. ). In 2009, Gulf Islands National Park Reserve initiated a new volunteer host program at Russell Island in collaboration with the descendents of Maria Mahoi. Through a volunteer agreement with the park reserve, the Mahoi descendents share their family stories about life on Russell Island with visitors.