Answers. Best Answer: she only speaks English Creole french is not french like the french people of France, very different in words and pronunciation. but her grand parents are creole who speak creole french, but she doesn't. She once sang in french, and french people were offended. 
Barbados Language. The official Barbados language is English, however you will hear our local dialect-referred to as Bajan dialect-spoken as well. (See how some of our vendors use dialect.). As the official Barbados language, English is used in formal settings and written communications. In informal settings you are likely to hear Bajan dialect spoken. This Barbados language is a combination of British English and various West African languages
Rihanna speaks English; however her accent comes from what is called Bajan. It's a mixture of English and West African dialect. The singer Rihanna speaks English. Of course Rhianna was born and brought up in Barbados but she now lives in L.A. Barbados does not have a language-they currently speak native English with an Indian twang … .
She speaks English, Swahili and barbados' national language. (Barbados's national language?? Barbados doesnt have a national language fool! They have a dialect called bajan. … .. Its still English. They just have certain sayings, a little like cockey.) Linguistically, Bajan is a creole language (NOT a dialect). It is recognized by linguists as a language in its own right. Of course Rhianna was born and brought up in Barbados but she now lives in L.A. Barbados does not have a language-they currently speak native English with an Indian twang … .
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Rihanna can definitely speak English! Everyone has heard her speak English-if the producers were making her sound out the words, so much pronounciation would be wrong. She speaks English in her interviews, and I think it would be essential for somebody like her to know English. She DOES speak English. My sister told me that Rihanna doesn't actually know English at all so the record producers just make her sound out the words as she sings and that she has no idea what she is singing.
Rihanna speaks English; however her accent comes from what is called Bajan. It's a mixture of English and West African dialect.   The singer Rihanna speaks English. Sacagawea or Sacajawea spoke two languages. She spoke shoshone dialect and the dialect of the hidatsa. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Flat Screen TVs: LED and LCD There's a common misunderstanding when it comes to LED and LCD TVs. 2  LED TVs are LCD TVs with an alternative backlighting system.
Barbados doesnt have a national language fool! They have a dialect called bajan... Its still English. Sacagawea or Sacajawea spoke two languages. She spoke shoshone dialect and the dialect of the hidatsa. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Flat Screen TVs: LED and LCD There's a common misunderstanding when it comes to LED and LCD TVs. 2  LED TVs are LCD TVs with an alternative backlighting system.
They just have certain sayings, a little like cockey.). Linguistically, Bajan is a creole language (NOT a dialect). It is recognized by linguists as a language in its own right. Because it is based on English there are some commonalities but the grammar is very different. Sacagawea or Sacajawea spoke two languages. She spoke shoshone dialect and the dialect of the hidatsa. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Flat Screen TVs: LED and LCD There's a common misunderstanding when it comes to LED and LCD TVs. 2  LED TVs are LCD TVs with an alternative backlighting system.