If you are travelling in Economy Class, you can also request for a specific seat if you have purchased your ticket through our website. If you purchase the ticket for your infant through our website, we will assign you a seat at a bassinet point, depending on availability. We will do our best to meet your seat request. 
Seat assignment is a convenient service of Vietnam Airlines in order to assist passengers choose their seats in advance with a preferred location. Seat assignment service is provided for passengers free of charge. There have 02 ways to make the seat assignment: via web check in or directly at the airport counter.
see complete overview. Vietnam Airlines (airline code VN), was founded in 1956 and is the national carrier of Vietnam, with hubs at Hanoi's Noi Bai airport and Ho Chi Minh City's Son ... Find Reviews & Seatplans by Aircraft: Vietnam Airlines (airline code VN), was founded in 1956 and is the national carrier of Vietnam, with hubs at Hanoi's Noi Bai airport and Ho Chi Minh City's Son 1  ... A320 (Config. 1). 2 
This Boeing 777-200 is the largest plane Vietnam Airlines flies, and this version is configured with two classes of service. Business Class features better than average pitch and comfortable 2-3-2 seating, with the center block having two to three extra inches. Coach has 3-3-3 nine across seating. 
I've been flying a lot with different airlines and Vietnam Airline is the first time today. Even though it is a short flight from Taipei to Ho Chi Minh city, the customer service of flight attendance is the worst I ever experience in any airlines. 
If you're buying a ticket directly from Vietnam Airlines' website, then there's no problem. Unlike some other carriers that charge a seat selection fee, Vietnam Airlines lets you pick your seat during the booking process (even for economy passengers). This will just make it easier but if you can't get it, don't worry. Vietnam Airlines' website is not bad but it's fairly limited in what you can and cannot do. There's no manage my reservations section where you can enter in a confirmation number or eTicket number to pull up your reservation, select your seat, etc. Instead, you'll have to call them
However, if you're flying Vietnam Airlines on a ticket booked through one of their partners such as Delta or bought a ticket through an OTA such as Expedia, then you have to go through a couple of extra steps to make your seat selection. First, get your Vietnam Airlines confirmation number. This will just make it easier but if you can't get it, don't worry. Vietnam Airlines' website is not bad but it's fairly limited in what you can and cannot do. There's no manage my reservations section where you can enter in a confirmation number or eTicket number to pull up your reservation, select your seat, etc. Instead, you'll have to call them
Enjoy the convenient, free service of Seat assignment to choose your favourite place on the plane. Plan your seat via web check in or at airport easily. 1  Home 2  /. Plan and book 3  /. Seat assignment. Seat assignment service is provided for passengers free of charge. There have 02 ways to make the seat assignment: via web check in or directly at the airport counter.
Seats with more legroom. Preferred Seats are seats with more legroom in Economy Class. With preferred seat selection, you have the additional option for selecting and guaranteeing these seats for your booking in Economy Class, which now have up to 23 preferred seats available on each flight. Aircraft type. Number of preferred seats available. Advance purchase online. Purchasing preferred seats is easy and convenient. You can either make your purchase when you make your flight booking on singaporeair.com or anytime before check-in (48 hours before flight departure). Simply retrieve your bookings on singaporeair.com to make your selection.