It is commonly used to help with headaches, other minor aches and pains, and is a major ingredient in many cold medications. In combination with opioid analgesics, paracetamol is used in the management of more severe pain such as post-surgical and cancer pain. Though paracetamol is used to treat inflammatory pain, it is not classified as an NSAID because it exhibits only weak anti-inflammatory activity.
Paracetamol is a pain reliever, somewhat like aspirin. WIKIPEDIA provides a very specific answer as follows: Paracetamol (INN) (IPA: /ˌpaerəˈsiːtəmɒl, -ˌpærəˈsiːtəmɒl-/) ˈsɛtə or (ACETAMINOPHEN), usan is the active metabolite of, phenacetin a-so called coal tar. analgesic
Paracetamol, also known as acetaminophen or APAP, is a widely used over-the-counter pain medication and medication to reduce fever.
1 Take painkillers such as paracetamol or ibuprofen if you have a fever or headache, and gargle with aspirin to help relieve a sore throat. 2  You will usually be given pain relief such as paracetamol or codeine tablets to help ease your discomfort.
Paracetamol is a painkilling (analgesic) medicine available over-the-counter without a prescription. Paracetamol can be used to 1  : ease mild to moderate pain – for example, headaches, sprains, or toothache.
The exact mechanism of action of is not known. Paracetamol is used to treat many conditions such as headache, muscle aches, arthritis, backache, toothaches, colds, and fevers. It relieves pain in mild arthritis but has no effect on the underlying inflammation and swelling of the joint.
Paracetamol belongs to a group of medicines known as analgesics, or painkillers. It is used to relieve mild-to-moderate pain. It is also useful for lowering a raised temperature (fever) , such as after childhood immunisation.
1 Inflammation can be reduced with ibuprofen tablets and paracetamol can help to relieve any pain. 2  Take painkillers such as paracetamol or ibuprofen if you have a fever or headache, and gargle with aspirin to help relieve a sore throat.