Sodium nitrite can be used as part of an intravenous mixture with sodium thiosulfate to treat cyanide poisoning. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, a list of the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Boiling vegetables lowers nitrate but not nitrite. Fresh meat contains 0.4-0.5 mg/kg nitrite and 4–7 mg/kg of nitrate (10–30 mg/kg nitrate in cured meats). The presence of nitrite in animal tissue is a consequence of metabolism of nitric oxide, an important neurotransmitter.
A minor use in meat curing: Although nitrites are the nitrogen compound chiefly used in meat curing, nitrates are used in certain specialty curing processes where a long release of nitrite from parent nitrate stores is needed. Nitrites are produced by a number of species of nitrifying bacteria, and the nitrate compounds for gunpowder (see this topic for more) were historically produced, in the absence of mineral nitrate sources, by means of various fermentation processes using urine and dung. Nitrates are found in man-made fertilizers.
Sodium nitrate (NaNO3) and its close relative sodium nitrite (NaNO2) are preservatives that you find in lots of processed meats. Stuff like salami, hot dogs, pepperoni, bologna, ham, bacon and SPAM all normally contain sodium nitrate as one of the ingredients. 
Descriptions. Amyl nitrite is related to the nitrate medicines and is used by inhalation to relieve the pain of angina attacks. It works by relaxing blood vessels and increasing the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart while reducing its workload. 
Sodium nitrite is a salt and an anti-oxidant that is used to cure meats like ham, bacon and hot dogs. Sodium nitrite serves a vital public health function: it blocks the growth of botulism-causing bacteria and prevents spoilage. Sodium nitrite also gives cured meats their characteristic color and flavor. When the sodium nitrate in celery, or other sodium nitrate-containing vegetables, is exposed to certain types of bacteria in the product, the nitrate is converted to sodium nitrite, which results in product characteristics similar to traditionally cured meat products.
The nitrite ion, which has the chemical formula NO 2 − , is a symmetric anion with equal N–O bond lengths and an O–N–O bond angle of approximately 120°. Upon protonation, the unstable weak acid nitrous acid is produced. Nitrite is also important in biochemistry as a source of the potent vasodilator nitric oxide. In organic chemistry the NO 2 group is present in nitrous acid esters and nitro compounds. Nitrites are also used in the food production industry for curing meat.
Amyl nitrite is related to the nitrate medicines and is used by inhalation to relieve the pain of angina attacks. It works by relaxing blood vessels and increasing the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart while reducing its workload. Amyl nitrite may also be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. This medicine comes in a glass capsule covered by a protective cloth. The cloth covering allows you to crush the glass capsule between your fingers without cutting yourself.
Sodium nitrite is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Na NO2. It is a white to slightly yellowish crystalline powder that is very soluble in water and is hygroscopic. Boiling vegetables lowers nitrate but not nitrite. Fresh meat contains 0.4-0.5 mg/kg nitrite and 4–7 mg/kg of nitrate (10–30 mg/kg nitrate in cured meats). The presence of nitrite in animal tissue is a consequence of metabolism of nitric oxide, an important neurotransmitter.
Both Nitrates and nitrites are permitted to be used in curing meat and poultry with the exception of bacon, where Nitrate use is prohibited. Sodium nitrite is commonly used in the USA (Cure #1) and everywhere else in the world. 1 Temperature (with higher temperature more nitrite is released from Nitrate). 2  Amount of bacteria present in meat that is needed for Nitrate to produce nitrite and here we do not have any control. 3  The more bacteria present, the more nitrite released.