Nouns denoting substances. Hypernyms (incense is a kind of...): chemical compound; compound ((chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight). Meronyms (substance of incense): stacte ((Old Testament) one of several sweet-smelling spices used in incense).
The noun INCENSE has 2 senses: 1. a substance that produces a fragrant odor when burned. 2. the pleasing scent produced when incense is burned. Familiarity information: INCENSE used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (incense is a kind of...): chemical compound; compound ((chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight). Meronyms (substance of incense): stacte ((Old Testament) one of several sweet-smelling spices used in incense).
Incense is composed of aromatic plant materials, often combined with essential oils. The forms taken by incense differ with the underlying culture, and have changed with advances in technology and increasing diversity in the reasons for burning it. Direct-burning incense is either a paste formed around a bamboo stick, or a paste that is extruded into a stick or cone shape.
Direct-burning incense (or combustible incense) is lit directly by a flame and then fanned or blown out, leaving a glowing ember that smoulders and releases fragrance. Direct-burning incense is either a paste formed around a bamboo stick, or a paste that is extruded into a stick or cone shape.
Consider purchasing a cored incense stick. These incense sticks consist of a thin, wooden stick (usually bamboo) that is covered with incense material; only the bottom inch or so is left uncovered. The incense material can be smooth and fine, or it can be grainy and coarse. 1 Solid incense sticks burn all the way down, so using anything made from a flammable material as a censer is dangerous. 2  Instead, consider filling a bowl or cup with grain, rice, salt, or sand, and sticking the incense stick inside. 3  If you wish to use a censer, then look for one that is made of ceramic or stone.
Noun. 1. incense-a substance that produces a fragrant odor when burned. chemical compound, compound - (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. 
Full Definition of INCENSE. 1. : material used to produce a fragrant odor when burned. 2. : the perfume exhaled from some spices and gums when burned; broadly: a pleasing scent. 3. : pleasing attention: flattery. See incense defined for English-language learners. See incense defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Incense is aromatic biotic material which releases fragrant smoke when burned. The term refers to the material itself, rather than to the aroma that it produces. Incense is used for a variety of purposes, including the ceremonies of religion, to overcome bad smells, repel insects, spirituality, aromatherapy, meditation, and for simple pleasure. Direct-burning incense is either a paste formed around a bamboo stick, or a paste that is extruded into a stick or cone shape.
Not just an air freshener. Most people who never or seldom use incense often think of it simply as an air freshener or an odor eater and are unaware of the many benefits it has to the mind and body. Even many regular incense users who use it regularly may not fully appreciate all its physical and psychological benefits. 
Incense. Incense is composed of aromatic biotic materials, which release fragrant smoke when burned. The term incense refers to the substance itself, rather than to the odour that it produces. It is used in religious ceremonies, ritual purification, aromatherapy, meditation, and for creating a spiritual atmosphere. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: incense (noun). a substance that produces a fragrant odor when burned. incense (verb). the pleasing scent produced when incense is burned. incense filled the room. cense, incense, thurify (verb).