Reviews were positive, with the song being compared to Shirley Bassey 's Bond themes, and Skyfall became the first Bond theme to win at the Golden Globes, the Brit Awards and the Academy Awards. During the 85th Academy Awards, Adele gave her first live performance of the song. Production of Skyfall, from the first contact with Adele to the song's release, took 18 months to complete. Vollack stated that the reason for this was fine-tuning the song, as Adele and Epworth wanted to ensure that they were getting it right.
315 pages on this wiki. Skyfall is the theme song to the 2012 film of the same name, performed by Adele. The film, which is the twenty-third James Bond film to be released, was released in October and November of 2012 in the UK and US, respectively. Live performances Edit. Adele performed Skyfall for the first time live at the 85th Annual Academy Awards, for which Skyfall was also nominated; this is the first time a Bond theme has been nominated for an Oscar since 1982.
Skyfall was released at 0:07 BST on 5 October 2012 as part of the Global James Bond Day, celebrating the 50th anniversary of the release of Dr. No, the first James Bond film. The song quickly went to the top of the iTunes chart, and reached number two at the UK Singles Chart and eight on the Billboard Hot 100. Production of Skyfall, from the first contact with Adele to the song's release, took 18 months to complete. Vollack stated that the reason for this was fine-tuning the song, as Adele and Epworth wanted to ensure that they were getting it right.
The Skyfall Songfacts reports that the track was recorded at Abbey Road Studios in London and got its first play on Adele's website at 0.07am GMT on October 5, 2012, as part of the James Bond Day celebrations by Eon Productions-the fiftieth anniversary of the first Bond film, Dr. No. 
Written by ADELE and Paul Epworth. Skyfall is the official theme song to the James Bond film of the same name. Video by Nick Chappell. http://adele.tv. 1  Music. 
AllMusic Review by James Christopher Monger. Speculation as to whether or not Adele would be providing the 23rd James Bond installment with its signature theme song began in 2011 after she mentioned a special project in an interview with BBC One chat show host Jonathan Ross. 
Enjoy a selection of songs from ADELE's album, 19. ADELE's debut album, 19, was released in early 2008. Following it's release ADELE won the Grammy Award for Best New Artist, and Chasing Pavements won the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance. 3:41. Adele-Chasing Pavements-Duration: 3 minutes, 41 seconds. Adele-Hometown Glory-Duration: 3 minutes, 36 seconds. ADELE - 'Make You Feel My Love' - Duration: 4 minutes, 7 seconds. ADELE - 'Cold Shoulder' - Duration: 3 minutes, 12 seconds.
Background Edit. After reading the script for the film, Adele enlisted Paul Epworth to co-write and produce the theme song to “Skyfall.” Adele admits, “I was a little hesitant at first to be involved with the theme song for Skyfall. There’s a lot of instant spotlight and pressure when it comes to a Bond song. Live performances Edit. Adele performed Skyfall for the first time live at the 85th Annual Academy Awards, for which Skyfall was also nominated; this is the first time a Bond theme has been nominated for an Oscar since 1982.
Skyfall is the first James Bond theme to chart within the Top 10 in the US in a decade, and is the first James Bond theme to debut in the Top 10. Interest in Skyfall led to a 10% increase in sales of Adele's last album, 21, in the US. Production of Skyfall, from the first contact with Adele to the song's release, took 18 months to complete. Vollack stated that the reason for this was fine-tuning the song, as Adele and Epworth wanted to ensure that they were getting it right.