That split the night. And touched the sound of silence. And in the naked light I saw. Ten thousand people, maybe more. People talking without speaking, People hearing without listening, People writing songs that voices never share. And no one dare. Disturb the sound of silence. Fools said I, you do not know. Silence like a cancer grows. Hear my words that I might teach you, Take my arms that I might reach you. But my words like silent raindrops fell, And echoed. In the wells of silence. And the people bowed and prayed. To the neon God they made. And the sign said, the words of the prophets. Are written on the subway walls. And tenement halls. Update Cancel. 3 Answers. Joe Geronimo Martinez, My name is an anagram of Jim Morrison. 30.9k Views. “In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.” ----Martin Luther King. This is the sound of silence. The song is remarkably Kafkaesque. Remarkable and strange things are happening but they do not alarm the narrator, so it reads remarkably like a dream sequenc
In the end the silence defeated us all: it was not confined to the Oran of Camus. By refusing to fight the silence we had become deaf, not just to each other but to ourselves. This is not loneliness but isolation. Silence has a sound. And the sign said, the words of the prophets. Are written on the subway walls. And tenement halls. Update Cancel. 3 Answers. Joe Geronimo Martinez, My name is an anagram of Jim Morrison. 30.9k Views. “In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.” ----Martin Luther King. This is the sound of silence. The song is remarkably Kafkaesque. Remarkable and strange things are happening but they do not alarm the narrator, so it reads remarkably like a dream sequence
Confidence votes 405. For the meaning of this song, you may wish to consider the introduction by Art Garfunkel in this early live performance on YouTube at the Related Link. Also note the original title is Sounds not Sound of Silence. (later renamed)
Originally titled  The Sounds of Silence  on Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M. as well as on the single release and Sounds of Silence album, the song was retitled for later compilations beginning with Simon and Garfunkel's Greatest Hits. The Sound of Silence  is a song by the American music duo Simon & Garfunkel. The song was written by Paul Simon over the period of several months between 1963–1964
Ten thousand people, maybe more. People talking without speaking. People hearing without listening. People writing songs that voices never share. And no one deared. Disturb the sound of silence. -----. ~. When we watch TV, we find that we try to follow it in our life to completeness. +7. General Comment The song sound of silence is a lyric that uses imagery and symbolism very heavily. The story of it is that the author has a dream about ten thousand people bowing to a god they made of neon light.
Credit: Travis Shinn Disturbed 's new album Immortalized features a cover of Simon & Garfunkel 's The Sound of Silence.. 
In the words that it was forming. And the sign said, The words of the prophets are written on the subway walls. And tenement halls. And whispered in the sound of silence.. In his memory people fell to the floor in shock and disbelief of what was happening. I think it means whatever you want it to mean and I think that's why Simon won't tell us what it means(unless he already has.) I guess maybe he just doesn't want to ruin the song for those that get a different interpretation out of it.