So I'm just wondering how long this part of the process normally takes ... his background is clean and his references are all easily reachable so it shouldn't be difficult for the investigator to get a hold of anybody. I'm hoping it takes at LEAST a week ... Many background checks may take longer depending upon how many places he has lived before. The process is usually not rushed and may take several months to complete. Departments normally will not even give you an estimate on time to complete a BI.
Report Abuse. I will take some time, 30 seconds are very short time. You can have a criminal background check through the mentioned site. I checked this site personally and find it really productive. Its totally free, for this site i can assure that it will not take more than 10 seconds to give you the desired result. Source(s): http://backgroundcriminalrecord.org/.
Criminal Record Checks are valid as of the date they were conducted. Results are provided with the date of completion rather than an expiration date. It is up to the requesting organization to determine their own thresholds for how long a check will be considered valid. If it is determined that it has been too long since the completion of your check, the organization may request a renewal. If potentially relevant information is found, you will typically have to request that information from a local police service directly. In the majority of cases, local police information may only be authorized for release by the police service holding that information. You may then choose to provide that information to the requesting organization directly
Background checks. Ruben Cano, the police compliance officer, is responsible for providing background and sanctions checks on students, student applicants, resident students, visiting students, employees, prospective employees, temporary employees, visitors, vendors and contractors. 
Rate This | Posted almost 7 years ago. Many background checks may take longer depending upon how many places he has lived before. The process is usually not rushed and may take several months to complete. Departments normally will not even give you an estimate on time to complete a BI.
Certificates don't have an expiry date. It's up to organisations to decide how often they require volunteers to have police checks. The certificate is a result of police record checks up to the date of issue. This means you can provide your certificate to other volunteer organisations who ask you to get a police check. 
You may obtain a copy of your criminal record by submitting a Criminal History Record Request (SP-167) form which can be downloaded from this Web site. The form requires a notarized signature and a fee of $15.00 is assessed for each request. Allow approximately 12-15 business days for processing. To obtain criminal history information you must authorize the Department to provide your record by completing a Request for Criminal History Information Form (SP-167). The form requires your notarized signature and may be downloaded from this web site. A
Answers. Best Answer: If its the UK, any time up to 4 weeks for a CRB check depending on which agency is applying for it, simply because the CRB do checks for everyone and there is a back log when you think that Taxi drivers, teachers, support workers etc are all waiting for there checks to be done... 
Average time. Most background checks can be completed between three days to one week. According to the University of Berkeley, FBI checks usually take around 30 days. Although some instant background checks are available, these rely on databases that can be incomplete or inaccurate. Instant criminal records databases, in particular, often contain many errors. 