Attaining any position with the FBI requires a minimum of a bachelor’s degree and three years of work experience or a graduate degree and two years of experience, according to the official Federal Bureau of Investigation website. What degree you should pursue depends on what role you would like to fill in the agency.
A: To become an FBI agent, you will need to have a bachelor degree at least. You can pursue your bachelor education in any field that interests you such as accounting, business, law, information technology etc. Apart from this, you must be over a certain age and must have a US citizenship.
Aspiring FBI special agents must have a bachelor's degree. The type of degree depends on which entry program an individual is interested in. Currently, 5 entry programs exist for special agent candidates: computer science and information, accounting, language, law and diversified.
A: To become a FBI agent, you need to be between the age of 23 and 37. These requirements are set by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You need to have at least a bachelor level degree in a relevant field. The next step is completing an FBI training program.
A: To become an FBI agent, you must have at least a bachelor degree. You will also have to complete the training requirements, complete a background check, and must hold a US citizenship. It is recommended that you visit the official web page of the FBI to find out how to apply for a job as a FBI agent.
Most people think that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is looking for candidates with criminology degrees. There are quite a few FBI agents who have degrees in criminology and criminal justice, but most agents have a background in finance and accounting.
1 To apply for the special agent position, you MUST first graduate and obtain a four-year college degree and have at least three years of professional work experience in your field/major prior. 2  If you have a graduate degree, your work experience requirement is reduced to two years.
A: If you want to become an FBI agent you should be a U.S citizen and at least 23 years of age. Educational requirements include having a four year bachelor degree from an accredited university or college.
1 All applications for employment with the FBI must be submitted via the Internet at www.fbijobs.gov or www.usajobs.gov. 2  There are no exceptions—even if you are a relative of an FBI employee, a former intern, or a former agent attempting to be reinstated. 3  You MUST be a U.S. citizen to work for the FBI.
A: To become an FBI agent, you must apply for training at the FBI agency. It is necessary that you have completed your education and hold at least a bachelor degree. Other minimum requirements include: US Citizenship, minimum three years professional work experience, over the age of 23, and have a valid drivers license.