How to use Prolensa ophthalmic. Your doctor may direct you to start using this medication the day before or the day after your surgery. Place 1 drop into the affected eye as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice a day for 2 weeks. Carefully follow your doctor's specific directions. To apply eye drops, wash your hands first.
If you are wearing contact lenses, remove them before using eye drops. Tilt your head back, look upward, and pull down the lower eyelid to make a pouch. Hold the dropper directly over your eye and place 1 drop into the pouch. Look downward and gently close your eyes for 1 to 2 minutes. Place one finger at the corner of your eye (near the nose) and apply gentle pressure. Your doctor may direct you to start using this medication the day before or the day after your surgery. Place 1 drop into the affected eye as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice a day for 2 weeks. Carefully follow your doctor's specific directions. To apply eye drops, wash your hands first.
BROMFENAC (BROM fen ak) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). The eye drops are used to treat pain and swelling after eye surgery. Similar Brand Name Drugs: Xibrom: Ophthalmic drops, solution (0.09%) | Bromday: Ophthalmic drops, solution (0.09%). 
Bromfenac is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) marketed in the US as an ophthalmic solution (current brand names Prolensa and Bromday, prior formulation brand name Xibrom, which has since been discontinued.) by ISTA Pharmaceuticals for short-term, local use. 
Common side effects of Prolensa include light sensitivity, watery eyes, the feeling that there is a foreign object in the eye, eye pain or irritation, eye itching, and blurred vision. Prolensa is generally dosed as one drop into the affected eye one day before surgery. Prolensa should also be used on the day of eye surgery, as well as for 14 days following. Discuss the dosing and usage with your doctor. Prolensa may be used alongside other topical eye medications. Each additional medication should be given at least five minutes apart. Prolensa may interact with other drugs
Prolensa™ (bromfenac ophthalmic solution) is a prescription medication used to reduce inflammation and pain after cataract surgery. It belongs to a group of medicines known as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs for short. Prolensa is given as an eye drop, and works directly in the eye.
Prolensa is a prescription medication used to treat eye inflammation and eye pain in patients who have undergone cataract surgery. Prolensa belongs to a group of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It works by stopping the release of certain natural substances that cause pain and swelling. This medication is to be given once a day starting on the day before cataract surgery, on the day of surgery, and for 14 days after surgery. Prolensa may be given along with other ophthalmic (eye) medications.
PROLENSA (bromfenac ophthalmic solution) 0.07% is a sterile, topical, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) for ophthalmic use. Each mL of PROLENSA contains 0.805 mg bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate (equivalent to 0.7 mg bromfenac free acid). Bromfenac sodium is a yellow to orange crystalline powder. The molecular weight of bromfenac sodium is 383.17. PROLENSA ophthalmic solution is supplied as a sterile aqueous 0.07% solution, with a pH of 7.8. The osmolality of PROLENSA ophthalmic solution is approximately 300 mOsmol/kg