Meanings and history of the name Julianne : | Edit. I believe my mother, Julianne Frost, was the first of that name in N America. She was born on June 7, 1941, in Cowley Wyoming. Her father, Julian Jack Frost was planning on her being a boy and named Julain Jr., so when she arrived a girl (in those days it was a surprise), a new name was needed.
Origin of the name Julianne: Variant of Juliana, the Latin feminine form of Julianus, which is a derivative of Julius (the first down on the chin, downy-bearded.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. I believe my mother, Julianne Frost, was the first of that name in N America. She was born on June 7, 1941, in Cowley Wyoming. Her father, Julian Jack Frost was planning on her being a boy and named Julain Jr., so when she arrived a girl (in those days it was a surprise), a new name was needed.
Julianne is an English language given name ultimately derived from the Latin Iuliana, the feminine form of Iulianus (Julian), probably via the French Julienne. The name is often thought to be made up from Julia + Anne. Some variations of the name are: 1  Juliana. 
Julianne /ju-li-anne/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Julianne's name origin is Latin, and the meaning of the name Julianne is youthful; Jove's child. Julianne is an alternate spelling of Julia (Latin): feminine of Julius. Julianne is also a form of Juliana (Latin). Kreatif forms: Jalianne, Joylianne, Julianc
Latin Meaning: The name Julianne is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Julianne is: Downy grace. A compound of the names Julie and Anne. Also can be interpreted as the feminine form of Julian: Youthful. Jove's child. American Meaning: The name Julianne is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Julianne is: Downy grace. A compound of the names Julie and Anne. Also can be interpreted as the feminine form of Julian: Youthful.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Julianne. Julianne is either a feminized form of the masculine Julian or it’s simply the modern marriage between the names Julie and Anne. A 20th century creation, Julianne can be added to the long list of names ultimately inspired by the ancient Roman Julius family. Julianne first appeared on the U.S. female naming charts in 1930 – a year in which both Julia and Anne were Top 100 favorite baby girl names. It seems natural that Julianne would follow.
The name literally means, in Latin, belonging to Julius , hence its use for the Julian calendar introduced by Julius Caesar. Some families have taken it as a female name, possibly due to the influence of the French feminine form, Julienne. 
Feminine form of Julius. It drived from-Julia,Julia is a feminine form of the name Julius; this name was given to every female in the Julius family in ancient Rome. Julia was the name of several early Christian saints and martyrs. Julia was also the name of a character in William Shakespeare's Two Gentlemen of Verona. 
Juliana /ju-li-ana/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced joo-lee-AH-nah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Juliana is youthful; Jove's child. Feminine of Julius or Julian. First used in the early Christian era. Saint Juliana of Florence (14th century). Also a royal name in the Netherlands. See also Julian, Gillian, Jillian, and Julie. Actresses Juliet Phillips, Juliet Moore, Julianne Margulies.