Black Dragon coleus. (Solenostemon 'Black Dragon') is a strain of shade-loving coleus with a broad band of purplish black on the leaves around a maroon to dark red center, and sometimes develops patches of green at the tips of scalloped leaf margins. Solenostemon_ hybrids. Add excitement to dim areas of your yard with shade-loving coleus varieties that have a contrasting color on leaf edges. An amazing array of color combinations are available, as well as leaf textures -- choose from plants with scalloped, toothed, or fringed leaf edges. Coleus is exceptionally easy to grow: Plant it in a shaded spot, keep the soil moist, feed it regularly, and be sure it has warm temperature
Hundreds of coleus (Coleus blumei) exist, giving you an abundance of colors, sizes and even site preferences to choose from. The leafy plants are often bi-color or tri-color, with patterns ranging from seemingly random splotches on a base color to a central hue edged with a contrasting border. They are useful to place in the back of a herbaceous border or to add contrast to fuller-shaped flowering plants. They're also irresistible when set behind low-growing and bushy coleus of different hues and foliage patterns.
Many Coleus plants will survive full sun exposure but the foliage color is often enhanced when they are grown in the shade. Coleus are also quite striking when they are planted in a container and grown as a house plant. By removing the flower spikes as they develop, and keeping the plant pinched back, the Coleus can be kept growing as a perennial for several seasons. These plants are a member of the nettle family but they are also a mint. Cookies! Coleus plants are durable and easy to grow. They are best known for their bright colors, and variety of foliage forms. Technically, they are a tender perennial but they are usually considered an annual plant by growers and seed producers.
Black Dragon is a variety of Coleus which is a member of the Solenostemon family. Its botanical name is Solenostemon scutellarioides 'Black Dragon' . A type of Ornamental, it mainly grows as an Annual plant-which means it typically only grows best for a single growing season. Black Dragon is known for growing to a height of approximately 1.24 feet (that's 38.0 cm in metric) with a ground cover-like habit. Black Dragon Coleus is normally quite a low maintenance plant and is normally very easy to grow-great for beginner gardeners! Black Dragon likes a position of partial sun and remember to water often. Black Dragon is generally regarded as a tender plant, so remember to wait until your soil is warm and the night time temperature is well above freezing before moving outside.
Take cuttings from adult plants, or purchase them. To take a coleus cutting, choose a branch without a bloom or bud at the tip. Cut directly below a leaf node, so the cutting is 4–6 in. (10–15 cm) long. Cuttings are also available for purchase directly, and typically come with a small root ball already developed. Grow them in water (optional). Most coleus cuttings will grow in a glass of water. Change the water every other day, keep the plant in bright, indirect sunlight, and transplant the coleus to a pot once you notice root growth. The soil method below works just as well.
Coleus (Black Dragon) - For a dark foliage plant, grow Coleus seeds and enjoy the show! Solenostemon scutellarioides Coleus is perfect for adding some intense color into the shade border. Or grow a Coleus house plant indoors in a sunny window. Coleus Black Dragon is an unusually richly-textured, warmly-colored foliage plant. Compact, very showy, and easy to grow, it's a must-have for anyone with an area of shade, and it's so easy to establish with flower seeds.
Coleus is probably one of the easiest plants to grow and propagate. In fact, the plants root so easily that you can even start cuttings in a glass of water. They can also be propagated by seed indoors about 8-10 weeks prior to your last expected spring frost. When growing coleus, keep in mind that these beauties can grow rapidly. Plant coleus close together as bedding plants or tuck them into baskets and containers for a fast growing and spectacular addition.
In recent classifications, the genus is no longer recognized, and the formerly included species are instead placed in the genera Plectranthus and Solenostemon. Because the type species, Coleus amboinicus (Plectranthus amboinicus) is now placed in Plectranthus, Coleus is regarded as a synonym of Plectranthus. 