Update: 2-9-13. I got another reminder from Bluehost to renew a url for $13.99 and this time I decided to do something about it. I did a little research on domain transfers and found that GoDaddy will transfer and renew your domain name for as little as $7.99. Ok so the renewal fee for GoDaddy is outrageous. They want to charge $23 for a 1 year renewal on the domain. No way I am paying that. I did some research and there are a ton of other domain registrars out there.
Let me do a quick calculation for Bluehost hosting here: 1  If I purchase for one year with the discounted link, and pay in full for next two years of renewal: $4.95 * 12 + $166.8 = $226.2. 2  Now, let’s consider the cost if I buy hosting for three years from Bluehost with the discounted link: $3.95 * 36 = $142.2. You could simply say: “I’m getting a decent discount on (name of competing hosting service), and I want to save some money. The renewal with you will cost me $120, but if I move my website to X hosting, I will save at least $50.
Bluehost Domain Renewal Cost Increase. I went to renew one of my website urls the other day only to find that the price had gone up to $13.99 for a year. It used to be like $10. I am pretty annoyed by this. They get you to sign up with them for low prices and then once you are hooked, they boost the prices on you. Ok so the renewal fee for GoDaddy is outrageous. They want to charge $23 for a 1 year renewal on the domain. No way I am paying that. I did some research and there are a ton of other domain registrars out there.
Obviously, the whole deal is packaged to impress. On the cost side, BlueHost charge 6.95$/month for its standard web hosting account (when you choose 12-month billing cycle), and it is $5.95 for 24 month cycle. Do take note that prices tend to fluctuate to reflect industry trend
For example, if a particular registrar is currently charging $10 a year, you can always pay for (up to) 10 years in advance at $10 a year. That will give you the domain name for 10 years under the current price. (As far as I know, the maximum period you can pay for any domain is 10 years.). 
Bluehost offers a number of great products for our customers. From the business owner to the individual who desires full functionality on a small budget, Bluehost provides a complete web hosting solution. Bluehost often offers promotions and special offers to customers during their initial term. (updated 165 days ago) Domain Registration Renewal vs Hosting Renewal I missed my renewal date for hosting or my account expired what happens now? (updated 1039 days ago) WooCommerce WooCommerce features and pricing.
I've seen hosting sites for my simple needs that only cost 5 -6 dollars a month. My fiance is employed by an internet company and I could have stored it on one of their servers for FREE. He was skeptical of some wording of who OWNS the domain name, after he read info on the bluehost site last year. I plan to contact customer support in the morning, but just wondering if someone can answer this question prior. Ok.. I signed up and paid for a domain name that I chose through bluehost. The question I have is in regards to a charge on my credit card in the amount of $150 for the RENEWAL of my website at bluehost. This floored me
Shared Web Hosting. In addition to these great savings on your hosting services, we will offer you a $15.99 Domain Registration coupon for the first 12 months of registration. The Pro Package has 80% less accounts per server which allows the use of more resources per account (more CPU usage, disk usage, bandwidth). (updated 165 days ago) Domain Registration Renewal vs Hosting Renewal I missed my renewal date for hosting or my account expired what happens now? (updated 1039 days ago) WooCommerce WooCommerce features and pricing.
A basic Bluehost plan starts at $6.95 / month (you can get it for $4.95 per month if you sign up for 36 months – but you can cancel and get your money back any time). With just the basic plan, you get access to use their Weebly website builder, but as mentioned, they limit you to only 6 pages per website. 