Origin of the name Colette: Short form of Nicolette, which is a diminutive form of Nicole, a feminine form of Nicolas (victory of the people). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Colette: | Edit. My wife's name is Colette. Most of the family calls her Cols. She likes the name, but doesn't like when it's misspelled (using 2 L's).
French Meaning: The name Colette is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Colette is: Necklace. Victorious. A Middle Ages feminine form of Nicholas which was originally a. The name Colette is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Colette is: People's victory. St. Nicholas is the patron saint of children, sailors, and pawnbrokers-Santa Claus is based on this saint.
The Meaning of the name Colette The meaning of the name Colette is as follows: Leader. The Origin of the name Colette The origin of the name Colette is believed to be: Greek. The Hidden Meaning of the name Colette using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. First Name Meanings-C. The Hidden Meaning of the name Colette using NumerologyNumerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Colette
Greek Meaning: The name Colette is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Colette is: People's victory. St. Nicholas is the patron saint of children, sailors, and pawnbrokers-Santa Claus is based on this saint.
Colette is a very prominent first name for women (#850 out of 4276, Top 20%) and a slightly less prominent last name for both adults and children (#98770 out of 150436, Top 66%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Colette for girls. Diminutive of the medieval name Colle, a short form of Nicholas, and also a short form of Nicolette. Saint Collette was a 15th century French nun who gave her money to the poor. Made popular from the 1920s due to the fame of the French author Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette (1873-1954).
Meaning & History. Short form of NICOLETTE. Saint Colette was a 15th-century French nun who gave her money to the poor. This was also the pen name of the French author Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette (1873-1954)
Colette /co-let-te/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ko-LET. It is of French and Greek origin, and the meaning of Colette is people of victory. Diminutive of the medieval name Colle, a short form of Nicholas, and also a short form of Nicolette. Saint Collette was a 15th century French nun who gave her money to the poor. Made popular from the 1920s due to the fame of the French author Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette (1873-1954).
The name Colette is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Colette is: Necklace. Victorious. A Middle Ages feminine form of Nicholas which was originally a. Famous bearers - 15th Century French nun St Colette, and 20th century French writer Colette. The name Colette is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Colette is: People's victory. St. Nicholas is the patron saint of children, sailors, and pawnbrokers-Santa Claus is based on this saint.