RSV is most contagious during the first two to four days after your child begins to feel ill. It is spread by contact with infected secretions – such as saliva and mucus from sneezing. An older brother or sister in day care, nursery school, or elementary school can transfer RSV to infants and toddlers. RSV can last between 2 to 8 days, but symptoms can remain up to 3 weeks. RSV occurs more commonly during the winter and early spring. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infects almost all children at least once before they are 2 years old.
Transmission. People infected with RSV are usually contagious for 3 to 8 days. However, some infants and people with weakened immune systems can be contagious for as long as 4 weeks. Children are often exposed to and infected with RSV outside the home, such as in school or childcare. They can then transmit the virus to other members of the family. RSV can be spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes into the air, creating virus-containing droplets that can linger briefly in the air.
1 Yes. 2  RSV is very contagious. 3  It can be passed from person to person by coughing, sneezing, or contact with infected items. 4  The virus can survive on a surface for hours. 5  If the virus gets on your hands, you can be infected if you touch your nose, mouth, or eyes. Children under 3 years old. 1  RSV could cause bronchiolitis, otitis media (ear infection), or pneumonia. 2  Symptoms could include high fever, bad cough, and wheezing. 3  In more severe cases, it could cause difficulty breathing. 4  Signs are wheezing, a blue color to the lips or skin, and the chest sucks in with each breath
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is contagious. In the United States, it's the most common cause of inflammation of the small airways in the lungs (bronchiolitis) and of pneumonia in children under 1 year of age. It also is significant cause of respiratory illnesses in older adults. Nearly all children in the U.S. will have been infected by RSV by 2 years of age. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection facts. 1  RSV is a highly contagious virus infection that most commonly causes illness during the winter season. 2  Most children who develop an RSV infection have mild symptoms of fever, nasal congestion, and nasal discharge.
1 RSV is very contagious. 2  It can be passed from person to person by coughing, sneezing, or contact with infected items. 3  The virus can survive on a surface for hours. 4  If the virus gets on your hands, you can be infected if you touch your nose, mouth, or eyes. Children under 3 years old. 1  RSV could cause bronchiolitis, otitis media (ear infection), or pneumonia. 2  Symptoms could include high fever, bad cough, and wheezing. 3  In more severe cases, it could cause difficulty breathing. 4  Signs are wheezing, a blue color to the lips or skin, and the chest sucks in with each breath
RSV is transmitted from an infected child by secretions from the nose or mouth by direct contact or by droplets in the air. The period of greatest contagiousness is in the first 2 to 4 days of the infection. RSV can last between 2 to 8 days, but symptoms can remain up to 3 weeks. RSV occurs more commonly during the winter and early spring. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infects almost all children at least once before they are 2 years old.
The incubation period-the time from exposure to RSV until you have symptoms-ranges from 2 to 8 days but usually is 4 to 6 days. You are most likely to spread the virus within the first several days after symptoms of RSV infection begin. You remain contagious for up to 8 days. Babies and young children may spread the virus for at least 3 to 4 weeks. Many different viruses can cause lower respiratory tract infections in children. These viruses can cause symptoms that are similar to an RSV infection
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is highly contagious, meaning it spreads easily from person to person. There are two main types of RSV and many subtypes (strains). For this reason, you cannot have full immunity to the virus. And you may have many RSV infections throughout life. You are most likely to spread the virus within the first several days after symptoms of RSV infection begin. You remain contagious for up to 8 days. Babies and young children may spread the virus for at least 3 to 4 weeks.
The respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), discovered in 1956, is capable of causing a broad spectrum of illnesses. Older children and adults will commonly experience a bad cold  lasting one to two weeks. Fever, nasal congestion, and cough are their most common complaints. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection facts. 1  RSV is a highly contagious virus infection that most commonly causes illness during the winter season. 2  Most children who develop an RSV infection have mild symptoms of fever, nasal congestion, and nasal discharge.