The name Matthias is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Matthias is: Gift of God. Hebrew Meaning: The name Matthias is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Matthias is: Gift of the Lord; Gift from God. Biblical Meaning: The name Matthias is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Matthias is: The gift of the Lord.
Mathias is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent surname for all people (#3939 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Mathias for boys. Mathias entered the list in 1880-1889 and reached its top position of #497 in the U.S. then, and is currently at #582.
Mathias Name Meaning. French, Dutch: from the personal name Mathias (see Matthew).Spanish and Portuguese: variant spelling of Matias. RS.Welsh: a late surname formation from the Biblical personal name Mathias (see Matthew). Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Mathias ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Alan Mathew, which was dated 1260, in the Assize Rolls of Cambridge, England. This was during the reign of King Henry 111, known by the nickname of 'The Frenchman', who reigned from 1216 to 1272. 
This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname MATHIAS. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. Using the Daitch-Mokotoff Soundex Code we can obtain some variants of scripture of the same surname. Below you will find the variants of scripture we have in our database.
Variant of Matthaios (see MATTHEW) which appears in the New Testament as the name of the apostle chosen to replace the traitor Judas Iscariot. This was also the name of kings of Hungary, including Matthias I who made important reforms to the kingdom in the 15th century. Expand Name Links. 
The personal name is recorded in the Greek New Testament as Matt(a)ias, later adopted into Latin as Matthias and Matthaeus; the former name was used for the apostle and the latter for the evangelist, although in most languages the two forms have come together again. One David Mathias was christened at St. Ann's, Blackfriars, in London on June 3rd 1627. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Alan Mathew (witness), which was dated 1260, The Cambridgeshire Assize Rolls, during the reign of King Henry 111, The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272.
French, Dutch: from the personal name Mathias (see Matthew).Spanish and Portuguese: variant spelling of Matias. RS.Welsh: a late surname formation from the Biblical personal name Mathias (see Matthew). Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. 
The popularity of the name ensured a variety of surnames, ranging from Mat(t)hew(s) to the learned forms Mathias and Matthias, often found in Wales. One David Mathias was christened at St. Ann's, Blackfriars, in London on June 3rd 1627. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Alan Mathew (witness), which was dated 1260, The Cambridgeshire Assize Rolls, during the reign of King Henry 111, The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272.
Mathias /math-ias/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name. Mathias' root is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Mathias is gift of God. Mathias is a variant transcription of Matthew (Hebrew). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Mathias for boys. Mathias entered the list in 1880-1889 and reached its top position of #497 in the U.S. then, and is currently at #582.