Getting Properly Diagnosed. Mega Cisterna Magna and Arachnoid cysts look similar on MRI read outs so in order to correctly diagnosis a ventriculogram should be performed with the injection of dye into the blood or with a catheter into the heart. With Mega cisterna magna the area has become enlarged but communication between the cerebellar vermis and fourth ventricle is intact. There may be no symptoms with mega cisterna magna and there will be no mass effect. This can be treated with cisternotomy.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The cisterna magna (or cerebellomedullary cistern) is one of three principal openings in the subarachnoid space between the arachnoid and pia mater layers of the meninges surrounding the brain. The openings are collectively referred to as cisterns. The two other principal cisterns are the pontine cistern located between the pons and the medulla, and the interpeduncular cistern located between the cerebral peduncles. Cerebral spinal fluid can also be obtained by puncture of the cisterna magna (cistern puncture).
Mega cisterna magna refers to a normal variant characterised by a truly focal enlargement of the subarachnoid space in the inferior and posterior portions of the posterior fossa. It is an incidental finding on neuroimaging 6. A mega cisterna magna is thought to occur in ~1% of all brains imaged postnatally.
To the Editor.— Alker et al's report Radiology of a Large Cisterna Magna Cyst (Archives 36:376-379, 1979) describes an 18-year-old woman admitted for seizures and headaches. A pneumoencephalogram showed a huge cystic structure in the posterior fossa that was thought to be a dilated cisterna magna. 
Overview. Arachnoid cysts are benign cysts that occur in the cerebrospinal axis in relation to the arachnoid membrane and that do not communicate with the ventricular system. They usually contain clear, colorless fluid that is most likely normal cerebrospinal fluid; rarely, they contain xanthochromic fluid
It is a sac-like structure filled with cerebrospinal fluid that may develop between the surface of the brain and the base of the skull, or on the arachnoid membrane, a delicate fibrous layer forming the middle of the three coverings of the central nervous system. 
A mega-cisterna magna, is a controversial entity among experts. In general however, the term is applied to non-pathological prominance (usually exceeding 10 mm in antenatal imaging) of the retro-cerebellar CSF space and not associated with cerebellar abnormalities. There is a normal vermis and normal cerebellar hemispheres.
The cisterna magna is located between the cerebellum and the dorsal surface of the medulla oblongata. Cerebrospinal fluid produced in the fourth ventricle drains into the cisterna magna via the lateral apertures and median aperture. The two other principal cisterns are the pontine cistern located between the pons and the medulla, and the interpeduncular cistern located between the cerebral peduncles. Cerebral spinal fluid can also be obtained by puncture of the cisterna magna (cistern puncture).
Mega Cisterna Magna and Arachnoid are both types of cysts that occur in the central nervous system and contain cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF. With Mega cisterna magna the area has become enlarged but communication between the cerebellar vermis and fourth ventricle is intact. There may be no symptoms with mega cisterna magna and there will be no mass effect. This can be treated with cisternotomy.