Thus, it is clear from experimental and clinical studies that adult chondrocytes can be expanded in vitro and used to produce cartilage in vivo. There are, however, critical requirements for the successful expansion of chondrocytes in vitro. Moderate seeding density and frequent subcultivations usually optimizes growth of most cell types. If that approach is used for chondrocytes, however, there may be a progressive, irreversible loss of function. As a result, there may be limitations in the numbers of suitable cells that can be grown in vitro for subsequent repair of cartilage defects. Bioreactors are commonly used for large-scale expansion of cell numbers, especially for cells that grow in suspension.
Defects created in articular cartilage that were filled with cultured chondrocytes showed significant repair tissue with features of normal articular cartilage (12). In that study, 80 percent of cartilage was reconstituted with the autologous chondrocytes, compared with only 18 percent in ungrafted controls. As a result, there may be limitations in the numbers of suitable cells that can be grown in vitro for subsequent repair of cartilage defects. Bioreactors are commonly used for large-scale expansion of cell numbers, especially for cells that grow in suspension.
Connective Tissue A really diverse group of tissues: Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. Blood is also a connective tissue.
Connective tissues have cells and an extracellular matrix. Connective tissue consists of cells and extracellular material secreted by some of those cells. Thus, unlike the other basic tissues (epithelia, muscle, nervous), the cells in CT may be widely separated from one another within the extracellular matrix. Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. Blood is also a connective tissue.
B Johnstone et al. artilae tissue enineerin Set against this idea of using complex biomaterials for cartilage repair is the concept that since chondrocytes are prolific producers of extracellular matrix, we should be able to create implants from the cells that do not require the addition of biomaterial scaffolds. The presence of multipotent progenitor cell types in tissues such as muscle (Adachi et al ., 2002), periosteum (Nakahara et al ., 1991), synovium (De Bari et al ., 2001), or infrapatellar fat pad (Wickham et al ., 2003) provide additional cell sources that may be readily accessible during joint surgery.
The perichondrium as its name suggests surrounds cartilage. It is composed of a dense connective tissue. The innermost layer of that surrounding connective tissue has stem cells that can divide and provide a reservoir of cells that can secrete cartilage matrix. This is called the chondrogenic layer. The predominant fiber in the interterritorial matrix of cartilage is composed of elastin (the elastic fiber). Scan the 5x image noting the cartilage, its perichondrium and the elastic cartilage. Again, as in hyaline cartilage, the spaces are the lacunae each of which contains a chondrocyte.
Cartilage & Bone Tissue with WebMic There are five specimens each for the study of cartilage and bone tissue. Hyaline cartilage, elastic cartilage and fibrous cartilage are demonstrated from the overall organization down to the individual cells, the chondrocytes, which form and maintain cartilage as a viable tissue. The predominant fiber in the interterritorial matrix of cartilage is composed of elastin (the elastic fiber). Scan the 5x image noting the cartilage, its perichondrium and the elastic cartilage. Again, as in hyaline cartilage, the spaces are the lacunae each of which contains a chondrocyte.
-Joins different parts of the body together-All types consist of cells surrounded by a matrix usually containing fibers-Connective tissue often consists of relatively few cells embedded in an extracellular matrix. Connective tissue is different from the other major tissues types in that. Reload the page to try again! Press Cmd-0 to reset your zoom. Press Ctrl-0 to reset your zoom. It looks like your browser might be zoomed in or out. Your browser needs to be zoomed to a normal size to record audio.
By contrast, PPARalpha ligands such as Wy-14,643 or clofibrate had no effect on this process. Therefore, the presence of PPARgamma in chondrocytes opens up new perspectives to modulate the effects of cytokines on cartilage by the use of specific ligands. The function of the two other transcription factors, PPARalpha and RORalpha identified in chondrocytes remains to be explored. Evidence for the presence of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha and gamma and retinoid Z receptor in cartilage.
Cartilage is a connective tissue whose cells, called chondrocytes, secrete a very specialized matrix. The basophilia of the matrix is due to the GAGs in its ground substance, specifically hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate and keratan sulfate. Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. Blood is also a connective tissue.