Pathway of blood through the heart 1. Blood enters the right atrium from the superior and inferior venae cavae, and the coronary sinus. 2. From right atrium, it goes through the tricuspid valve to the right ventricle.
1. Oxygen-poor blood enters the right atrium and flows into the right ventricle. 2. Blood goes through the pulmonary artery to the lungs, where gaseous exchange occurs. 3. … Oxygen-poor blood picks up new oxygen in the lungs on the right side of the heart and all waste products such as carbon dioxide are removed.
1 Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve.
Blood Flow. All blood enters the right side of the heart through two veins: The superior vena cava (SVC) and the inferior vena cava (IVC) (see figure 3). The SVC collects blood from the upper half of the body. The IVC collects blood from the low
Venous blood enters the heart through the superior and inferior  venae cavae into the right atrium. From the atrium they exit the  tricuspid valve into the right ventricular … . The blood exits the  right ventricle through the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary  veins towards the lungs.
The deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium from the superior and inferior vena cava. The deoxygenated blood then goes through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle the deoxygenated blood flows through the pulmonary valve to the lungs to be oxygenated.
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium, and passes through the tricuspid valve to the right ventricle. The blood is then pumped through the pulmonary artery to the lungs t … o become oxygenated. From the lung blood comes through pulmonary veins to the section of the heart called the left atrium.
Into the right atrium from the superior and inferior vena cava, then into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle it goes into the pulmonary arteries to the lungs, then … back through the pulmonary veins to the left atrium.