Confidence votes 7. Hyenas are neither canine nor feline. They belong to their own family, the Hyaenidae, which includes the three species of hyena (spotted, striped and brown), and their relative, the aardwolf. In Animal Life. Hyenas are neither canine nor feline. They belong to their own family, the Hyaenidae, which includes the three species of hyena (spotted, striped and brown), and their relativ … e, the aardwolf.
No dogs here! Hyenas are not members of the dog or cat families. Instead, they are so unique that they have a family all their own, Hyaenidae. There are four members of the Hyaenidae family: the striped hyena, the “giggly” spotted hyena, the brown hyena, and the aardwolf (it’s a hyena, not a wolf). 
Hyena Facts. Although they resemble both dogs and cats, the three species of hyenas and the aardwolf are in their own separate and very unique family called Hyaenidae. The most well-known is called the spotted hyena, also known as the laughing hyena due to the unusual and eerie sounds it makes.
Lions scavenged spotted hyena kills more often than the other way round. One of the most oft-touted tropes about hyenas is that they are scavengers, stealing most of their food from more upstanding species like lions and (according to Pliny the Elder) sometimes even digging up graves in search of human corpses. 
no they are not. they have there own species called hyaenidae wich consists of 4 species 1.spotted hyena 2.stripped hyena 3.brown hyena 4.Aardwolf. + 2 others found this useful. Harsha Sree. Edit. Share to: 1  Canine Influenza Canine influenza is a viral disease of dogs that is easily passed from one dog to another. In Animal Life. Hyenas are neither canine nor feline. They belong to their own family, the Hyaenidae, which includes the three species of hyena (spotted, striped and brown), and their relativ … e, the aardwolf.
Spotted Hyena. Crocuta crocuta. While hyenas are known as scavengers, they also possess great intelligence and skill on the hunt. One strategy is for a single hyena to cause confusion in the herd, while the others in the pack pick off an older or weaker member and chase the rest away. Photograph by Beverly Joubert
Wild dog vs Hyena. In the years that I have been in the bush and have been guiding, some sightings just tend to stick and remain fresher in my memory. This is mostly as a result of interspecies interaction. 
The hyena is a carnivorous dog-like species of animal, native to parts of both Africa and Asia. There are four known species of hyena, the spotted hyena, the striped hyena, the brown hyena and the aardwolf. This hyena call is thought to be able to be heard by other hyenas for up to three miles. The hyena is a remarkably intelligent animal. Hyenas are thought to have being compared to primates and humans in the evolutionary status of the hyenas brain.