Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Marketing category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Marketing jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. Click a salary category to find jobs in your target salary range. Six Figure Income jobs ($100,000+). High Income jobs ($80,000 - $100,000). Upper Middle Income jobs ($50,000 - $80,000).
Wages for Trades Jobs. And here are more detailed salaries for jobs in Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton, Vancouver, Fredericton, Halifax, Windsor-Essex County, Kitchener, Ottawa, Guelph, Prince Edward Island, Saskatoon, Montreal and Winnipeg: The average salary in Canadian dollars has risen by around 22 percent since 2007.
The annual salary for someone with the job title International Trade Specialist may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. May negotiate letters of credit or handle issues with international banks. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures.
Average Salary in Canada. If you moved to Canada from another western economy a few years ago, you would most likely have found Canadian wages a bit lower than you expected. This is generally not the case now. The average salary in Canadian dollars has risen by around 22 percent since 2007. In 2015 the average hourly earnings accross all employess in either full ot part-time work was $25.11. This compares to $20.56 in 2007
Average Trade Show Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide are 31% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title International Trade Specialist in the United States. May negotiate letters of credit or handle issues with international banks. May require a bachelor's degree in area of specialty and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures.
The Canadian Salary Survey provides a summary of the range of salaries that are currently being earned by professionals in each of numerous skilled occupations, listed as A, B, or 0 on the National Occupation Classification (NOC) . Related information. 
Wages and Salaries. Find wage and salary information for occupations in Alberta. Information is based on the 2013 Alberta Wage and Salary Survey. Learn more. Search alphabetically by clicking on a letter below. Use the search filters on the right to narrow your results. 
High: The typical high-end salary you can expect for this kind of job, based on last month's job ads. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again based on last month's job ads. Salary results for Marketing Manager. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts.