If two identical atoms are attached to the chiral center, the next atoms in the two substituents are examined. Moving outward from the chiral center, priority is given at the first point where the substituents differ. The left-and right-hand configurations of chiral molecules are dubbed enantiomers. Left-handed enantiomers are given the label S-for sinister in Latin-and the right-handed enantiomers are labeled R, for rectus.
Here is a sketch of a basic chiral molecule: All the substituents are a different color, and the molecule's handedness can be defined by drawing a spiral through the substituents according to the Cahn-Ingold-Prelog rules [see any organic chemistry text]. The left-and right-hand configurations of chiral molecules are dubbed enantiomers. Left-handed enantiomers are given the label S-for sinister in Latin-and the right-handed enantiomers are labeled R, for rectus.
A chiral molecule can occur as one of an otherwise identical pair which have the exact same composition, functional structure, but shapes which are mirror images of the other and so display a definite handedness. Often the enantiomers of one of these chiral odour molecules are perceived to have very different smells. In fact the nose is an extremely sensitive tool for discriminating between such enantiomers. In contrast, current instrumental techniques are cumbersome, slow and relatively insensitive.
Conversely, an achiral object, such as an atom, is symmetric; its mirror image is not truly opposite, but rather is indistinguishable from the original. In chemistry, chirality usually refers to molecules. Two mirror images of a chiral molecule are called enantiomers or optical isomers. The stereogenic atom in chiral molecules is usually carbon, as in many biological molecules. However chirality can exist in any atom, including metals (as in many chiral coordination compounds), phosphorus, or sulfur.
In chemistry, chirality usually refers to molecules. Two mirror images of a chiral molecule are called enantiomers or optical isomers. Pairs of enantiomers are often designated as  right-  , left-handed or if it has no bias achiral. Chirality /kaɪˈraelɪtiː/ kaɪˈrælɪtiː is a property of symmetry important in several branches of. Science the word chirality is derived from The, greek (χειρ), kheir, hand a familiar chiral. object
Therefore, molecule 2 is not chiral. (This is a little difficult to see and so it is probably easier to use test 3 for this molecule. There is a plane of symmetry in molecule 2 that cuts throught the NH 2 and OH groups.). Test 2: If the molecule has only one chiral center, then the molecule is chiral. If the molecule has more than one chiral center, it is most likely chiral. The exceptions are meso-compounds, which have chiral centers but are not chiral due to the presence of a place of symmetry. Molecule 3 has a single chiral center (carbon 2). Therefore, this molecule is chiral. (Note that in this depiction, we have not specified if the NH2 group is up or down. This means usually means that it is racemic mixture of the two. 
With regard to organic chemistry, chiral molecules commonly comprise a carbon atom attached to four different substituents. The substituents can be either atoms or groups of atoms, but each must differ from the other three for the carbon atom to be a chiral center (stereocenter). The left-and right-hand configurations of chiral molecules are dubbed enantiomers. Left-handed enantiomers are given the label S-for sinister in Latin-and the right-handed enantiomers are labeled R, for rectus.
Most commonly, chiral molecules have point chirality, centering around a single atom, usually carbon, which has four different substituents. The two enantiomers of such compounds are said to have different absolute configurations at this center. If a carbon atom (or other type of atom) has four different substituents, that carbon atom forms a chiral center (also known as a stereocenter). Chiral molecules often have one or more stereocenters.
Any atom in an organic molecule that is bonded to four different types of atoms or chains of atoms can be considered chiral. If a carbon atom (or other type of atom) has four different substituents, that carbon atom forms a chiral center (also known as a stereocenter). Chiral molecules often have one or more stereocenters. When drawing molecules, stereocenters are usually indicated with an asterisk near the carbon
In general, chiral molecules have point chirality at a single stereogenic atom, which has four different substituents. The two enantiomers of such compounds are said to have different absolute configurations at this center. The stereogenic atom in chiral molecules is usually carbon, as in many biological molecules. However chirality can exist in any atom, including metals (as in many chiral coordination compounds), phosphorus, or sulfur.