Given the four years between the release of the first Xbox and the arrival of its successor, it’s no surprise that after six years rumors began circulating in March 2011 that the 360 was on its way out and Microsoft was already hard at work on its next console. Arguably the most important event in the evolution of the Xbox and the growth of Microsoft’s place in the gaming industry occurred on the console’s first birthday with the launch of Xbox Live.
1 Where to Buy the Xbox Console Xbox is the name of Microsoft's current video game console. 2  The first Xbox console, just called Xbox, was released in 2001. 
The Xbox One is a home video game console developed by Microsoft. Announced on May 21, 2013, it is the successor to the Xbox 360 and the third console in the Xbox family. It directly competes with Sony Computer Entertainment 's PlayStation 4 and Nintendo 's Wii U as part of the eighth generation of video game consoles. It is also the first Xbox game console to be released in China, specifically in the Shanghai Free-Trade Zone. Microsoft and various publications have classified the device as an all-in-one entertainment system, making it a competitor to other digital media players, such as the Apple TV and Google TV platforms.
For example, when you connect the first controller to a console, the top left section lights up: You can connect up to four controllers to the console. On the original Xbox 360 console and the Xbox 360 S console, each controller is assigned to one of the four lighted sections. The first controller connected is assigned the upper-left section, then the upper-right, lower-left, and finally lower-right sections. 
The Xbox is a home video game console and the first installment in the Xbox series of consoles manufactured by Microsoft. It was released on November 15, 2001, in North America, followed by Australia and Europe in 2002. It was Microsoft's first foray into the gaming console market. Other countries would follow suit in 2006. The last Xbox game in Europe was Xiaolin Showdown released in June 2007, and the last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008. Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2, 2009.
It turns out that Xbox – short for DirectX Box – is the least-weird name Microsoft had up its sleeve 12 years ago. Republishing an article from the lost print-only archives of 2003, Edge Online spoke to Seamus Blackley, one of the original minds behind the first Xbox. 
One key component to the console’s success was the popularity of its flagship game, Halo, which offered the one-two punch of being both exclusive to the Xbox and one of the first-person shooter genre’s most compelling, groundbreaking titles to hit shelves in years. Arguably the most important event in the evolution of the Xbox and the growth of Microsoft’s place in the gaming industry occurred on the console’s first birthday with the launch of Xbox Live.
The Xbox 360 was released as the successor of the original Xbox in November 2005, competing with Sony's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles. As of June 30, 2013, 78.2 million Xbox 360 consoles have been sold worldwide. The brand also represents applications (games), streaming services, and an online service by the name of Xbox Live. The brand was first introduced on November 15, 2001 in the United States, with the launch of the original Xbox console. That original device was the first video game console offered by an American company after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996
It was Microsoft's first foray into the gaming console market. As part of the sixth-generation of gaming, the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2, Sega 's Dreamcast (which stopped American sales before the Xbox went on sale), and Nintendo 's GameCube. The brand also represents applications (games), streaming services, and an online service by the name of Xbox Live. The brand was first introduced on November 15, 2001 in the United States, with the launch of the original Xbox console. That original device was the first video game console offered by an American company after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996