The Wildebeest are very vulnerable to various big cats and other predators in the wild. That is why they live in large herds. Typically, it is the young and the sick that are more vulnerable. They also stay close to Zebras and it is believed that it also helps to offer them more protection. The Zebras can be prey that the predators will get instead of a Wildebeest. Introduction to Wildebeest. The Wildebeest belongs to the animals known as antelope. They are very fast, agile, and powerful. They can be between 4 and 5 feet tall and weigh as much as 600 pounds. The males weigh more than the females.
The wildebeest is actually a subspecies of the antelope, despite it's bull-like appearance. There are two known species of wildebeest, both of which are native to Africa. The changing African seasons mean the wildebeest must migrate south in the winter, so the wildebeest can continue to graze on grass. Thousands of wildebeest all tend to migrate at once creating a wildebeest stampede. The wildebeest is a primary source of prey for many large African mammals, that often pick out the weaker wildebeest from the outside of the herd. Wildebeest generally grow to around 1.5 tall but are relatively defenceless against dominant, carnivorous predators such as lions and crocodiles
The wildebeest (also called a gnu) is a member of the antelope family. It has a large, box-like head with curving horns. The front end of the body is heavily built, while the hindquarters are slender with spindly legs. 
Whales are mammals because they give birth to live young, they have fur (although it is very sparse on their body), they have lungs and breath air and they provide milk for their young. You have a lot of interesting questions about marine mammals. Dolphins and other whales are all mammals called cetaceans. Whales are mammals because they share the characteristics of other mammals (like us!). These characteristics include being able to regulate their own body temperature (unlike cold-blooded animals, like lizards), growing hair and producing milk to feed their young (who are born live, not in eggs).
African Animals Home. Mammal Home. The wildebeest, also called the gnu (pronounced new), is a large hooved mammal of the genus Connochaetes, which includes two species, both native to Africa. Gnus belong to the family Bovidae, which includes antelopes, cattle, goats, and other even-toed horned ungulates. 
Whales, dolphins, porpoises, seals, walruses, and many other marine animals are mammals, not fish. The marine mammals exist because about 50 to 60 millions of years ago, some mammals wandered off of the land and into the ocean, and there they evolved into different types of marine mammals. Whales are mammals because they share the characteristics of other mammals (like us!). These characteristics include being able to regulate their own body temperature (unlike cold-blooded animals, like lizards), growing hair and producing milk to feed their young (who are born live, not in eggs).
Wildebeest Facts. Wildebeest is a mammal that belongs to the family of antelopes. Wildebeests live in central, eastern and southern parts of Africa. They prefer life in green plains and open woodlands. Wildebeest is also known as gnu. Wildebeest looks like a close relative of a bovine because of its disproportional body. It has large, box-shaped head, and strongly built front part of the body. Hindquarters are slender, just like in other
In fact, the wildebeest is better described as a reliable source of food for the truly menacing predators of the African savanna: lions, cheetahs, wild dogs, and hyenas. 20 years. Size: Up to 4.5 ft (1.4 m). Weight: 330 to 550 lbs (150 to 250 kg). Group name: Herd. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The ungainly gnu earned the Afrikaans name wildebeest, or wild beast, for the menacing appearance presented by its large head, shaggy mane, pointed beard, and sharp, curved horns.
Other characteristics of dolphins that make them mammals rather than fish are that they give birth to live young rather than laying eggs and they feed their young with milk. Also, like all mammals, dolphins even have a tiny amount of hair, right around the blowhole, which is a little different than the scales of a fish. E ven though they live in the ocean all of the time, dolphins are mammals, not fish. Like every mammal, dolphins are warm blooded. Unlike fish, who breathe through gills, dolphins breathe air using lungs. Dolphins must make frequent trips to the surface of the water to catch a breath. The blowhole on top of a dolphin's head acts as a nose, making it easy for the dolphin to surface for air