Capsules vs Tablets. Capsule and tablet are just two forms of medicines we ingest. Whenever we are sick, the medicines the doctor will prescribe are usually either a capsule or a tablet. One might wonder what is the difference between a capsule and a tablet and if their form affects how effective they will be. Tablet. A tablet is medicine compressed into a disc form. It is usually coated with sugar or some other compound to delay the release of the medicine into our system
A caplet is a compressed combination of a vehicle and drug (like a tablet) that looks like THIS. The advantages are (1) it can be scored, thus you can break it in half, (2) it cannot be tampered with, (3) sometimes it is easier for a patient to swallow-some patients complain of large tablets. The only difference is in the shape. Both the tablets and caplets contain the same amount of medicine. Some people find that an oval caplet is easier to swallow, while others prefer the round tablet shape.
Caplet.......... very rarely said, all those things above people would refer to as tablets, a capsule maybe.... a caplet, it'd have to be someone who knows a lot about tablets to use different words, as at least in the common-folk language, lol that's what they are.. all tablets. The only difference is in the shape. Both the tablets and caplets contain the same amount of medicine. Some people find that an oval caplet is easier to swallow, while others prefer the round tablet shape.
Once swallowed, the gelatin dissolves, releasing the contained medicine (which can be either liquid or granular). A caplet is formed the same way a tablet is: a compressed powder consisiting of the medicine and a binder material. The word is a cross between a CAPsule and a tabLET. Capsules are those pills made out of gelatin and then filled with medicine. They are the long, oval or football shaped ones. Tablets are the pills where the medicine is pressed together into a hard solid. CAPLETS is sort of a cross between the two
Report Abuse. The word is a cross between a CAPsule and a tabLET. Capsules are those pills made out of gelatin and then filled with medicine. They are the long, oval or football shaped ones. Tablets are the pills where the medicine is pressed together into a hard solid. CAPLETS is sort of a cross between the two
1 As nouns the difference between caplet and tablet is that caplet is a smooth-coated tablet shaped like a capsule, used as a tamper-resistant altern} DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGoodLong_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|Caplet is a see also of tablet. 
The doctors prescribe medicines in the form of capsules and tablets. A tablet is in the form of flat tablets and a capsule is almost cylindrical. Tablets can be cut into two, whereas capsules cannot be cut into two. A capsule consists of powder or jelly enclosed in a dissolvable gelatin container. A tablet is a compressed powder in solid form. 