Indications for PRECEDEX: For sedation of initially intubated and mechanically ventilated patients during treatment in an intensive care setting. For sedation of non-intubated patients prior to and/or during surgical and other procedures.
0. Mar 23, '05 by Jockgrl209. In the open heart ICU we mix a precedex gtt (400mcg/100cc) standard for each patient admitted from the OR. We titrate it from 0.2 - 0.7 mcg/kg/hr to a Ramsey of 3, and up to 1mcg/kg/hr for some cases (rarely though.) We use precedex on the ventilated patients until extubated. 
Precedex has a molecular weight of 236.7 and the empirical formula is C 13 H 16 N 2 •HCl and the structural formula is: Dexmedetomidine hydrochloride is a white or almost white powder that is freely soluble in water and has a pKa of 7.1. Its partition coefficient in-octanol: water at pH 7.4 is 2.89. Precedex Injection is supplied as a clear, colorless, isotonic solution with a pH of 4.5 to 7.0. Each mL contains 118 mcg of dexmedetomidine hydrochloride equivalent to 100 mcg (0.1 mg) of dexmedetomidine and 9 mg of sodium chloride in water and is to be used after dilution.
Precedex (dexmedetomidine hydrochloride in 0.9% Sodium Chloride) injection is available as 200 mcg/50 mL (4 mcg/mL) and 400 mcg/100 mL (4 mcg/mL) in 50 mL and 100 mL clear glass bottles, respectively. Containers are intended for single use only. To prepare the infusion, withdraw 2 mL of Precedex Injection, and add to 48 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection to a total of 50 mL. Shake gently to mix well.
Precedex in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection is supplied as a clear, colorless, isotonic solution with a pH of 4.5 to 7.0. Each mL contains 4.72 mcg of dexmedetomidine hydrochloride equivalent to 4 mcg (0.004 mg) of dexmedetomidine and 9 mg sodium chloride in water and is ready to be used. Dexmedetomidine hydrochloride is a white or almost white powder that is freely soluble in water and has a pKa of 7.1. Its partition coefficient in-octanol: water at pH 7.4 is 2.89. Precedex
Precedex (dexmedetomidine hydrochloride) injection is a sterile, nonpyrogenic solution suitable for intravenous infusion following dilution. Precedex (dexmedetomidine hydrochloride) in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection is a sterile, nonpyrogenic ready to use solution suitable for intravenous infusion. Dexmedetomidine hydrochloride is a white or almost white powder that is freely soluble in water and has a pKa of 7.1. Its partition coefficient in-octanol: water at pH 7.4 is 2.89. Precedex Injection is supplied as a clear, colorless, isotonic solution with a pH of 4.5 to 7.0.
Dexmedetomidine. DEXMEDETOMIDINE (Precedex®) is an anesthetic agent used to reduce anxiety and tension, and promote relaxation and sedation in patients needing a mechanical ventilator. Dexmedetomidine is administered to patients only by health care professionals in an intensive care or surgical area. Dexmedetomidine is for injection into a vein. It is given by trained health care professionals in an intensive care or surgical area. Contact your pediatrician or health care professional regarding the use of this medicine in children.
It is relatively unusual in its ability to provide sedation without causing respiratory depression. Like clonidine, it is an agonist of α2-adrenergic receptors in certain parts of the brain. It is the S-enantiomer of medetomidine, used in veterinary medicine. It also seemed to be superior to lorazepam for ventilated patients in the intensive care unit. Compared to midazolam, dexmedetomidine is superior due to reduced intensive care costs. The reduced costs are due to a reduction in intensive care unit stay as well as reduced mechanical ventilation.
Dexmedetomidine is indicated for sedation of critically ill or injured patients in an intensive care unit setting. Its indication in the US was recently expanded to include nonintubated patient requiring sedation for surgery or procedures short-term. It also seemed to be superior to lorazepam for ventilated patients in the intensive care unit. Compared to midazolam, dexmedetomidine is superior due to reduced intensive care costs. The reduced costs are due to a reduction in intensive care unit stay as well as reduced mechanical ventilation.
Dexmedetomidine (trade names Precedex [US market], Dexdor [European market], Dexdomitor) is a sedative medication used by intensive care units and anesthesiologists. It also seemed to be superior to lorazepam for ventilated patients in the intensive care unit. Compared to midazolam, dexmedetomidine is superior due to reduced intensive care costs. The reduced costs are due to a reduction in intensive care unit stay as well as reduced mechanical ventilation.