Although bites from the brown recluse and other recluse spiders can be a source of significant morbidity, diagnoses implicating these spiders as the culprits should be restricted to those regions of the country that support populations of the spiders. On a broader scale, spider bites in general are overdiagnosed. Identifying the Brown Recluse Spider. One can readily learn how to identify recluse spiders with less than a minute's training. Whereas most U.S. spiders have 8 eyes, typically arranged in 2 rows of 4, the recluse spiders have 6 eyes arranged in pairs (dyads) with one anterior dyad and 2 lateral dyads (Fig. 1).
The brown recluse spider is well-known for its appearance and poisonous bite. It is the most common and widespread of the brown spiders, but it is found only in the south and central United States. This map shows the range of different species of recluse spiders, including the brown recluse (reclusa, in red); Texas recluse (devia, in yellow); Big Bend recluse (blanda, in green); Apache recluse (apachea, in light blue); Arizona recluse (arizonica, in blue); and desert recluse (deserta, in purple).
Possibly the most unnerving of all the pests our customers face, brown recluse spiders are prolific in the South, where Honor Guard has offices in Nashville, Knoxville, and Atlanta. The bad news is that the bite of a brown recluse spider can be extremely poisonous, especially to children and older adults. 
Brown recluse spiders live in a region comprising Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, Mississippi, Alabama and parts of Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska. This map shows the range of different species of recluse spiders, including the brown recluse (reclusa, in red); Texas recluse (devia, in yellow); Big Bend recluse (blanda, in green); Apache recluse (apachea, in light blue); Arizona recluse (arizonica, in blue); and desert recluse (deserta, in purple).
Another distinguishing characteristic of the brown recluse spider is its uniformly colored abdomen (though the shade of brown varies from spider to spider) covered in fine hairs, which give it a velvety appearance. Their long, thin legs are also covered in fine hairs. This map shows the range of different species of recluse spiders, including the brown recluse (reclusa, in red); Texas recluse (devia, in yellow); Big Bend recluse (blanda, in green); Apache recluse (apachea, in light blue); Arizona recluse (arizonica, in blue); and desert recluse (deserta, in purple).
The brown recluse spider, Loxosceles reclusa, is common outdoors and indoors in the southern and central United States. It is uncommon to extremely rare in the Upper Midwest. Only one specimen has been recorded in Minnesota (1953, Lake County). Only two specimens have been recorded in Wisconsin in the last 25 years. The bite of a common sac spider (Cheiracanthium) can be misdiagnosed as a brown recluse spider bite. Injuries develop in a similar manner but are much less severe. Reactions, such as swelling, slow healing, and ulcerated sores around the bite site, are similar enough to be confusing.
Adult Brown Recluse spiders are yellowish-tan to dark brown. The most distinguishing mark on this spider is the presence of a dark brown or black violin or fiddle on its back with the violin's neck pointing toward the rear of its body. For this reason, they are also called violin spiders or fiddleback spiders. 
Eleven species of Loxosceles are indigenous to the continental United States, four of which are known to be harmful to humans. Brown recluse spiders are established in 15 states: Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas. 
The brown recluse, Loxosceles reclusa, Sicariidae (formerly placed in a family Loxoscelidae) is a spider with a venomous bite. Brown recluse spiders are usually between 6 and 20 millimetres (0.24 and 0.79 in), but may grow larger. While typically light to medium brown, they range in color from whitish to dark brown or blackish gray. The cephalothorax and abdomen are not necessarily the same color. The brown recluse has three pairs of eyes, unlike most spiders. The violin pattern is not diagnostic, as other spiders can have similar markings (e.g. cellar spiders and pirate spiders). For definitive identification it is imperative to examine the eyes.
Share. The brown recluse spider (Loxosceles reclusa) is found throughout the southern Midwest region of the United States. It can also be found less commonly in the southwestern states. This spider, which ranges from 8-13 mm in length, has long legs (20-30 mm in length), and ranges in shades of brown. 