Area navigation (dashed line) vs. navaid-based navigation (solid line). Area navigation (RNAV) is a method of instrument flight rules (IFR) navigation that allows an aircraft to choose any course within a network of navigation beacons, rather than navigate directly to and from the beacons. This can conserve flight distance, reduce congestion, and allow flights into airports without beacons.
Pilots are now benefiting from the proliferation of Area Navigation (RNAV) Global Positioning System (GPS) approaches and lower minimums provided by WAAS-enabled systems. As of July 2011, there were twice as many WAAS approaches as Instrument Landing Systems (ILS) approaches. LP is not a fail-down mode for an LPV. LP and LPV are independent. LP minimums will not be published with lines of minima that contain approved vertical guidance (LNAV/VNAV or LPV).LNAV approaches are non-precision approaches that provide lateral guidance.
Pilots are now benefiting from the proliferation of Area Navigation (RNAV) Global Positioning System (GPS) approaches and lower minimums provided by WAAS-enabled systems. As of July 2011, there were twice as many WAAS approaches as Instrument Landing Systems (ILS) approaches. This is intentional to aid pilots in transferring their ILS flying skills to LPV approaches. Lateral Navigation/Vertical Navigation (LNAV/VNAV) LNAV/VNAV approaches provide both horizontal and approved vertical approach guidance.
An approach plate depicting an instrument approach procedure for an ILS approach to Tacoma Narrows Airport in the United States. A direct instrument approach requires no procedure turn or any other course reversal procedures for alignment (usually indicated by NoPT on approach plates), as the arrival direction and the final approach course are not too different from each other.
Localizer Performance with Vertical Guidance (LPV) LPV approaches take advantage of the refined accuracy of WAAS lateral and vertical guidance to provide an approach very similar to a Category I ILS. This is intentional to aid pilots in transferring their ILS flying skills to LPV approaches. Lateral Navigation/Vertical Navigation (LNAV/VNAV) LNAV/VNAV approaches provide both horizontal and approved vertical approach guidance.
Publications depicting instrument approach procedures are called Terminal Procedures, but are commonly referred to by pilots as approach plates. These documents depict the specific procedure to be followed by a pilot for a particular type of approach to an airport. A direct instrument approach requires no procedure turn or any other course reversal procedures for alignment (usually indicated by NoPT on approach plates), as the arrival direction and the final approach course are not too different from each other.
Like an ILS, an LPV has vertical guidance and is flown to a Decision Altitude (DA). The design of an LPV approach incorporates angular guidance with increasing sensitivity as an aircraft gets closer to the runway (or point in space (PinS) type approaches for helicopters). Sensitivities are nearly identical to those of the ILS at similar distances. This is intentional to aid pilots in transferring their ILS flying skills to LPV approaches. Lateral Navigation/Vertical Navigation (LNAV/VNAV) LNAV/VNAV approaches provide both horizontal and approved vertical approach guidance.
Pilots flying GPS approaches can descend to the straight-in (S-runway number) Minimum Descent Altitude (MDA) for their approach category on GPS RWY XX approaches or the LNAV MDA on RNAV (GPS) RWY XX approaches. There are approximately 4,000 GPS (LNAV) approach procedures as of May 2006. These improvements increased the types of GPS and Area Navigation (RNAV) instrument procedures and associated minima, which now include: conventional overlays, Lateral Navigation (LNAV), LNAV/Vertical Navigation (VNAV), Localizer Performance with Vertical Guidance (LPV), and circling.
Localizer Performance with Vertical Guidance (LPV) LPV approaches take advantage of the refined accuracy of WAAS lateral and vertical guidance to provide an approach very similar to a Category I ILS. Like an ILS, an LPV has vertical guidance and is flown to a Decision Altitude (DA). The design of an LPV approach incorporates angular guidance with increasing sensitivity as an aircraft gets closer to the runway (or point in space (PinS) type approaches for helicopters). LP is not a fail-down mode for an LPV. LP and LPV are independent. LP minimums will not be published with lines of minima that contain approved vertical guidance (LNAV/VNAV or LPV).LNAV approaches are non-precision approaches that provide lateral guidance.
Note that you cannot use a GPS to shoot approach procedures titled “VOR/DME RNAV RWY XX,” unless it also says “or GPS” in the title. Only VOR/DME RNAV systems can be used for these approaches. The FAA developed early GPS approaches as “overlays” of existing non-precision approaches, with “or GPS” in their title. On the other hand, area Navigation (RNAV) equipment can guide you over any virtual waypoint, which does not necessarily represent an actual ground facility. Therefore, RNAV approaches make more airports accessible under instrument conditions. The Bendix KNS-80 is capable of older VOR/DME RNAV