Definition of CONTRACT CARRIER. : a transport line that carries persons or property under contract to one or a limited number of shippers — compare common carrier. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
2. Transportation : 'For hire ' transporter that (1) serves all customers without discrimination, (2) provides scheduled service to designated points or within a designated area, (3) carries only the type of cargo for which it is certified, and (4) is named as the carrier in the contract of carriage. You should find a good common carrier so that you can always rely on the service they offer and not worry about it. 10 people found this helpful. I wanted to have a common carrier instal the cable in my house, and it had to be one that I trusted a lot.
Under US law, an ocean freight forwarder cannot act as a common carrier. The term common carrier is a common law term, seldom used in continental Europe because it has no exact equivalent in civil-law systems. A common carrier offers its services to the general public under license or authority provided by a regulatory body. The regulatory body has usually been granted ministerial authority by the legislation that created it.
common carrier. n. an individual, a company, or a public utility (like municipal buses) which is in the regular business of transporting people and/or freight. This is distinguished from a private carrier which only transports occasionally or as a one-time-only event. (See: carrier). COMMON CARRIER, contracts. One who undertakes for hire or reward to transport the goods of any who may choose to employ him, from place to place. 6. A common carrier of goods is in all cases entitled to demand the price of carriage before he receives the goods, and, if not paid, he may refuse to take charge of them; if, however, he take charge of them without the hire being paid, he may afterwards recover it.
A common carrier is distinguished from a contract carrier (also called a public carrier in UK English), which is a carrier that transports goods for only a certain number of clients and that can refuse to transport goods for anyone else, and from a private carrier. A common carrier offers its services to the general public under license or authority provided by a regulatory body. The regulatory body has usually been granted ministerial authority by the legislation that created it.
A common carrier must further demonstrate to the regulator that it is fit, willing, and able to provide those services for which it is granted authority. Common carriers typically transport persons or goods according to defined and published routes, time schedules, and rate tables upon the approval of regulators. A common carrier offers its services to the general public under license or authority provided by a regulatory body. The regulatory body has usually been granted ministerial authority by the legislation that created it.
The two main types of carriers are common carriers and private carriers. A common carrier, such as a railroad, airline, or business that offers public transportation, customarily transports property and individuals from one location to another, thus offering its services for the hire of the general population. Conversely, a private carrier of passengers must act with only reasonable care and diligence unless the contract for carriage provides otherwise, though some jurisdictions hold a private carrier to the same duty as that applied to common carriers.
A common carrier in common law countries (corresponding to a public carrier in civil law systems, usually called simply a carrier) is a person or company that transports goods or people for any person or company and that is responsible for any possible loss of the goods during transport. A common carrier offers its services to the general public under license or authority provided by a regulatory body. The regulatory body has usually been granted ministerial authority by the legislation that created it.