Best Answer: The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) sets wage, hours worked, and safety requirements for minors (individuals under age 18) working in jobs covered by the statute. The rules vary depending upon the particular age of the minor and the particular job involved. As a general rule, the FLSA sets 14 years of age as the minimum age for employment, and limits the number of hours worked by minors under the age of 16. Source(s): http://www.dol.gov/dol/topic/youthlabor/... orizano · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
Baskin Robbins Careers And Income. If you are at least 16-years old, you can download a Baskin Robbins job application form fill it out and take it to the Baskin Robbins near your home. Entry-level employees start as Crew Members and make between $8 and $10 hour depending on the state and store. There are two reasons that Baskin Robbins is a great choice. 1) Baskin Robbins is a niche specialty business with very few competitors. 2) One food item that people prefer not to make at home – mainly because it is more expensive to do so – is ice cream.
How old do you have to be to work at Baskin Robbins in las Vegas? You need to be at least 16 years of age before you can work at the  ice cream store. Before you can work alone, you will need to be at  least 18. Edit. Share to: Jponbac Gunna. 260,586 Contributions. Retired teacher with an advocation in history who loves to travel.
How old do you have to be to work at Baskin Robbins in las Vegas? You need to be at least 16 years of age before you can work at the  ice cream store. Before you can work alone, you will need to be at  least 18. Edit. Share to: Jponbac Gunna. 260,598 Contributions. Retired teacher with an advocation in history who loves to travel.
How to Apply at Baskin-Robbins. Minimum age of employment at Baskin-Robbins is 14 year old, depending upon franchisee and location. To apply at Baskin-Robbins, locate your nearest Baskin-Robbins, stop by and fill out an application
I would suggest that you work for a grocery store (like krogers or hyvee) to start out. There are several reasons why: 1. The managers are usually pretty young, 2. You could be a manager within a year or so, 3. Next. Im in high school and i've heard how much it sucks to work at baskin robbins but i need a job, so that i can a least have a little money in my pocket. Follow
At Baskin-Robbins, we have a passion for delivering irresistible treats, smiles and fun for the entire neighborhood. From the moment you walk through the door, you're surrounded by the smell of our freshly baked waffle cones, lively music and your fellow crew members, or should we say, your new friends. 
Report Abuse. if you heard how much it sucks, I advise strongly against you working there because Baskin-Robbins is not there for you to put money in your pocket. They just will pay you very cheap and you have to love every aspect of the job to get hired. Next. Im in high school and i've heard how much it sucks to work at baskin robbins but i need a job, so that i can a least have a little money in my pocket. Follow
About Baskin-Robbins. Baskin-Robbins is a global chain of ice cream parlors which claims to be the world’s largest ice cream franchise, with more than 5,800 locations, 2,800 of which are located in the United States. Minimum age of employment at Baskin-Robbins is 14 year old, depending upon franchisee and location.