Spanish form of the Late Latin name Salvator, which meant saviour. A famous bearer of this name was the Spanish surrealist painter Salvador Dali (dalí-1904). 1989 
Salvatore. A vibrant, handsome, Italian man who knows what he wants and takes it with no apologies. He's likely to go by Sal, because he doesn't understand just how sexy he and his name really are. On top of that; he's intelligent, good in bed (and out!), and great at games of skill. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Salvatore. Salvatore is the Italian equivalent to the Spanish Salvador. The English equivalent (i.e., “Savior”) is not used as a masculine name among English-speakers as the Italian and Spanish equivalents have been. Both Salvatore and Salvador come from the Late Latin “salvatorem” which means “savior” (a saver or preserver from “salvare” meaning “to save”). Literary Characters of the Baby Name Salvatore. Salvatore Sal Paradise (On the Road) Salvatore “Sal” Paradise is protagonist and narrator of Jack Kerouac’s iconic Beat Generation novel, On The Road, which was based on his travels across the United States with and among his friends.
[ 4 syll. sal-va-to-re, sa-lvat-ore ] The baby boy name Salvatore is pronounced as SaeLV AA-TaoR-ey- †. Salvatore is mainly used in Italian and its language of origin is Latin. Salvatore is a variant form of the English and Spanish name Salvador. Salvatore is a classic favorite. At present it is still a somewhat popular baby boy name, but to a lesser degree than it was before. At the peak of its usage in 1914, 0.093% of baby boys were named Salvatore. It had a ranking of #149 then. The baby name has experienced a decline in frequency since then, and in recent times it is of modest use.
Salvatore /sal-va-tore/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys. Salvatore's root is Latin, and Salvatore means savior. Salvatore is an Italian form of Salvador (Latin): Spanish transcription of Salvator. Compare surname Salvadore. How popular is Salvatore? Salvatore is a very popular first name for males (#389 out of 1220, Top 32%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#5807 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census)
Spanish Meaning: The name Salvatore is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Salvatore is: Savior. American Meaning: The name Salvatore is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Salvatore is: Savior. Italian Meaning: The name Salvatore is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Salvatore is: Savior.
Salvatore is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 9 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Sal-va-tore. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 899 in baby name popularity for boys with 237 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Salvatore Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Salvatore has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Salvatore to other names. Salvatore is a variant spelling of Salvator
Salvador is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Sal-va-dor. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 600 in baby name popularity for boys with 448 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 