Breadfruit Institute » Uses » Food Uses. Breadfruit can be cooked and eaten at all stages of development. It is typically consumed when mature, but still firm, and is a delicious substitute for any starchy root crop, vegetable, pasta, potato, or rice. Sliced breadfruit can be fried to make chips or 'French fries' or candied. Ripe fruit are creamy and sweet and can be eaten raw or used to make pies, cakes, and other desserts. Breadfruit made into a cereal or pureed ripe fruit is good food for babies. The nutritious seeds resemble chestnuts in flavor and texture.
Breadfruit is a multipurpose species and all parts of the tree are used. It is an essential component of home gardens and traditional agroforestry systems, creating a lush overstory that shelters a wide range of cultivated and native plants. 
Breadfruit is one of the highest-yielding food plants, with a single tree producing up to 200 or more grapefruit-sized fruits per season, and only requires very limited care. In the South Pacific, the trees yield 50 to 150 fruits per year. A common product is a mixture of cooked or fermented breadfruit mash mixed with coconut milk and baked in banana leaves. Whole fruits can be cooked in an open fire, then cored and filled with other foods, such as coconut milk, sugar and butter, cooked meats, or other fruits.
Breadfruit is used more like a vegetable than a fruit. However, it doesn't matter what you or I may call it because it tastes sweet when ripe. 
Food Uses. Like the banana and plantain, the breadfruit may be eaten ripe as a fruit or underripe as a vegetable. For the latter purpose, it is picked while still starchy and is boiled or, in the traditional Pacific Island fashion, roasted in an underground oven on pre-heated rocks. The United States Department of Agriculture brought in breadfruit plants from the Canal Zone, Panama, in 1906 (S.P.I. #19228). For many years there have been a number of seedless breadfruit trees in Key West, Florida, and there is now at least one on Vaca Key about 50 miles to the northeast.
Other use of Breadfruit. Breadfruits are used for a lot of purposes. The fruit as well as the leaves and latex of its tree work as a natural medicine for curing diseases like skin infections, Diarrhea, Asthma, Diabetes and Sciatica. It can be consumed as a fruit and also cooked as a vegetable. The leaves of Breadfruit grow over one foot long and so they can be used to provide shade. Breadfruit leaves are used in African regions for decoration purposes. Breadfruit and diabetes. Breadfruit intake is believed to help people suffering from diabetes.
This prickly oval fruit is very popular throughout Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands, and when cooked, it tastes similar to—you guessed it!—freshly baked bread. Breadfruit is most commonly used as a vegetable, and is a staple food in many tropical countries. The starch-rich breadfruit tastes similar to potatoes, though riper varieties taste sweeter because the starch converts to sugar. Breadfruit is delicious mashed or sauteed sautéed with garlic and. oil 
Breadfruit is an extremely starchy fruit that is used as a vegetable with an almost potato-like taste. My first encounter came in Saint Lucia, in the form of the stuffed breadfruit. For this dish, the breadfruit is parboiled in salted water before being peeled and cored. 
Breadfruit is of course a fruit though it is used more like a vegetable. It is a staple food in many areas such as the tropical countries. When cooked, it reportedly tastes just like potato. Many describe the taste to be similar to fresh-baked bread which hints at the choice of the name ‘Breadfruit’. Breadfruit Uses. Breadfruits are used for a lot of purposes. The fruit as well as the leaves and latex of its tree work as a natural medicine for curing diseases like skin infections, Diarrhea, Asthma, Diabetes and Sciatica. It can be consumed as a fruit and also cooked as a vegetable