Noun [edit]. parfait ‎(plural parfaits). 1  A French parfait (parfait glace), glacé an iced dessert made with egg, yolks, sugar, cream and (flavouring usually), fruit sometimes with the addition of a.  liqueur 
(CUISINE) parfait. excl fine, excellent. plus-que-parfait. nm pluperfect, past perfect. Translation French-English Collins Dictionary &nbsp. See also: parfaire, parfaitement, paraitre, paraître. Parasite to ensure the quality of, comments you need to be. connected 
Fruit. Many recipes for yogurt parfaits include some type of fruit. Adding fruit to your yogurt parfait will increase your intake of important nutrients like potassium and vitamin C. Fresh fruit often works best because it does not contain as much juice as frozen and canned varieties, and is often lower in sugar.
par·fait. n. 1. A dessert made of cream, eggs, sugar, and flavoring frozen together and served in a tall glass. 2. A dessert made of several layers of different flavors of ice cream or ices, variously garnished and served in a tall glass. Noun. 1. parfait-layers of ice cream and syrup and whipped cream. frozen dessert-any of various desserts prepared by freezing. 1  Facebook
Preparation method. Soak the chicken livers in the milk, 500ml/18fl oz water and two teaspoons of the salt in a shallow dish for one hour. This will draw out most of the blood, which can make the livers bitter, giving the parfait a more delicate flavour. Rinse and drain the livers well. 
The Nutrition of a Parfait. It is important to understand the nutrition of a yogurt parfait, a seemingly healthy breakfast option. Yogurt parfaits have become increasingly popular, and you have probably noticed this cup of yogurt (mixed with granola and fruit) sold at some of your favorite restaurants and coffee shops. 
Full Definition of PARFAIT. 1. : a flavored custard containing whipped cream and syrup frozen without stirring. 2. : a cold dessert made of layers of fruit, syrup, ice cream, and whipped cream. See parfait defined for English-language learners. See parfait defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Lemon Meringue Parfaits. Add sweet sophistication to classic lemon meringue pie with these parfaits piled high with fresh raspberries, creamy lemon custard and a lightly browned meringue topping. 
1 A rich cold dessert made with whipped cream, eggs, and fruit. Example sentences. 1  In complete contrast to our disagreeable dining companion, the duck liver parfait he ordered was rich and smooth. 