A master's degree is the minimum requirement for most psychologist positions, and jobs in some branches of psychology will require you to have a doctorate degree. Upon completion of a doctorate program in psychology, you will be awarded either a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) or Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. Requirements for psychology jobs vary by state. Each state has its own licensing requirements. If you earn a master's degree in psychology, you will be qualified for many different positions, including the following:
A master's or doctoral degree, and a license, are required for most psychologists.   Education and training. A doctoral degree usually is required for independent pra … ctice as a psychologist. 
Counseling Psychologist. You must have a master's degree and complete at least 100 hours of experience working directly with patients to become a licensed professional counselor (LPC). You may also have to pass an exam given by the state licensing board. Some states require counseling psychologists in private practice to have doctorates. Requirements for psychology jobs vary by state. Each state has its own licensing requirements. If you earn a master's degree in psychology, you will be qualified for many different positions, including the following:
A bachelor's degree with a psychology major or substantial psychology coursework is generally required for admission to psychology doctoral programs (some also require a master's degree in psychology). School, social or industrial-organizational psychologists typically need master's or specialist degrees. However, clinical, counseling or research psychologists are required to earn doctoral degrees. Graduate students gain valuable research experience through classes, seminars, conferences and lab work
As with all other psychology careers, becoming a clinical psychologist requires extensive training and education. In order to start a clinical psychology career, individuals will typically need to earn a Bachelor's in psychology or clinical psychology. Additional schooling is also usually necessary after the four year degree. This typically includes earning a Master's degree and Doctoral degree in clinical psychology. To learn more about the available colleges for these programs in your area visit our Find a School Page.
The training and licensing of clinical psychologists ranges from 4 year undergraduate degree plus a 4 to 6 year doctorate program. Most programs in the U.S. are PhD programs that have a strong focus on research and are typically housed in universities. 
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov) reported in 2012 that some states will allow you to work as a school psychologist with a master's degree in psychology, but many states now require you to have an education specialist degree such as an Ed.S. in school psychology or a doctoral degree (www.bls.gov). Requirements for psychology jobs vary by state. Each state has its own licensing requirements. If you earn a master's degree in psychology, you will be qualified for many different positions, including the following:
Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. 
Degree: A master's or doctoral degree, and a license, are required for most psychologists. Education and Training: A doctoral degree usually is required for independent practice as a psychologist. In the Federal Government, candidates must have a bachelor's degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in psychology, or a combination of education and experience to qualify for entry-level positions.