If the first level is above 125 mg/dL, the fasting blood glucose test will be done again (for example, the next day) to confirm a diagnosis of diabetes. A value between 100 and 125 mg/dL indicates pre-diabetes. Someone with a result in this range should be followed closely, with follow-up testing. 
Generally, before a lipid or a glucose tolerance test, you’ll be told to fast for eight hours. However, your healthcare provider may advise you differently. Always follow his/her instructions to the letter. 
Fast for eight to 12 hours before you have your first blood taken. The glucose tolerance test includes a blood draw before you drink a sugary liquid, and an hour after that as well. If you're doing a three-hour glucose tolerance test, then it's one blood draw every hour for three hours. Select your first meal after the fast carefully. Do this at least a week before you're scheduled to fast for the glucose tolerance test. Schedule the test early in the day. If you schedule the glucose tolerance test in the afternoon then you're wide awake, most likely moving around and are used to eating and drinking so you'll be more hungry.
1 Oral glucose tolerance test. 2  For this test, you fast overnight, and the fasting blood sugar level is measured. 3  Then you drink a sugary liquid, and blood sugar levels are tested periodically for the next two hours. 4  A blood sugar level less than 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L) is normal. 1 Fasting blood sugar test. 2  A blood sample will be taken after an overnight fast. 3  A fasting blood sugar level less than 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) is normal. 4  A fasting blood sugar level from 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L) is considered prediabetes.
1 A blood sample will be taken after an overnight fast. 2  A fasting blood sugar level less than 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) is normal. 3  A fasting blood sugar level from 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L) is considered prediabetes. 4  If it's 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) or higher on two separate tests, you have diabetes. 1 Fasting blood sugar test. 2  A blood sample will be taken after an overnight fast. 3  A fasting blood sugar level less than 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) is normal. 4
Fasting blood glucose test. Do not eat or drink anything except water for 8 to 10 hours before a fasting blood glucose test. These are used to diagnose diabetes, a condition caused by too much glucose (sugar) in the blood. Iron blood tests are usually taken in the morning before you eat anything. You should also avoid taking iron pills or tablets for 24 hours before your test. Your body absorbs iron very quickly from food or pills, so this can raise your iron levels and affect the test results.
In general, the fasting period for blood test is 8 hours, and the maximum duration does not exceed 12 hours. During the starving time, a candidate can drink water to reduce hunger pangs. Also, according to the main approach for blood test, certain beverages and current medications are allowed during fasting. All these blood test fasting rules are explained to the candidates at the time of consultation. The exact duration for the fast before a blood test is given below. Fasting Period Before a Blood Sugar Test. For blood glucose test, 8 hours of fasting is enough. As mentioned before, blood sugar reading is higher after food consumption. The rise in value will depend on the type of food ingested and time interval after having meal. To avoid all these confusions, fasting for blood work is directed to the patients
It depends on the type of blood test. For fasting sugar tests it  can have an affect. Fasting longer than 12 to 14 hours will cause  your body to start utilizing glycogen th … at is primarily stored in  your muscles and that can affect blood tests for fasting sugar. You cannot eat or drink anything for 8 to 10 hours before having a  folate blood test. This test is done to check for anemia,  malnutrition, and to ensure birth defects do n … ot happen to a fetus.
1 If your blood glucose measures 100 mg/dL to 125 mg/dL, your doctor will recommend another blood test. 2  You have higher-than-normal blood glucose levels, but the levels are not high enough to be diagnosed as having diabetes. 3  Your doctor will confirm all abnormal tests with a second test before diagnosing diabetes. 1 If your blood glucose measures 126 mg/dL or higher, your doctor will order a second test. 2  If a second test done on a different day also measures 126 mg/dL or higher, you have diabetes, and you don't need any further tests to diagnose it.