Subscribe to our Pain Management Advisor e-newsletter for tips to manage pain. Meralgia paresthetica is a condition characterized by tingling, numbness and burning pain in your outer thigh. The cause of meralgia paresthetica is compression of the nerve that supplies sensation to the skin surface of your thigh. Tight clothing, obesity or weight gain, and pregnancy are common causes of meralgia paresthetica
Background. A painful mononeuropathy of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve (LFCN), meralgia paresthetica is commonly due to focal entrapment of this nerve as it passes through the inguinal ligament. Rarely, it has other etiologies such as direct trauma, stretch injury, or ischemia. It typically occurs in isolation. A painful mononeuropathy of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve (LFCN), meralgia paresthetica is commonly due to focal entrapment of this nerve as it passes through the inguinal ligament. Rarely, it has other etiologies such as direct trauma, stretch injury, or ischemia
Meralgia paresthetica is an entrapment or pinching of the nerve that supplies sensation to the outer portion of the thigh. The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve becomes entrapped as it passes under the ligament of the groin. The pressure on the nerve causes abnormal sensations of burning, pain, and numbness in the distribution of this nerve, the outer and part of the front of the thigh. Meralgia paresthetica is also known as lateral femoral cutaneous nerve syndrome.
Background. Meralgia paresthetica (MP) is pain or an irritating sensation felt over the anterior or anterolateral aspect of the thigh due to injury, compression, or disease of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve (LFCN) (see the image below). 
Meralgia paresthetica, sometimes referred to as burning thigh pain, is a condition of the peripheral nervous system characterized by tingling, pain or numbness in the outer thigh. It arises when the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve is compressed. 
190 Followers. A. Meralgia paresthetica is an entrapment or pinching of the nerve that supplies sensation to the outer portion of the thigh. The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve becomes entrapped as it passes under the ligament of the groin
Meralgia paresthetica: Entrapment or pinching of the nerve that supplies sensation to the outer portion of the thigh. The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve becomes entrapped as it passes under the ligament of the groin. 
Causes of meralgia paresthetica. Meralgia paresthetica is caused by nerve entrapment. The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve running through your pelvis, groin and into the thighs becomes compressed. This can be caused by swelling, trauma, or pressure narrowing these openings and squeezing the nerve. 