Sandalwood oil provides perfumes with a striking woody base note. Sandalwood smells not unlike other wood scents, except it has a bright and fresh edge with few natural analogues. When used in. smaller proportions in a perfume, it is an excellent fixative to enhance the other fragrances. The oil from sandalwood is widely used in the cosmetic industry and is expensiv
Sandalwood is the name of a class of woods from trees in the genus Santalum. The woods are heavy, yellow, and fine-grained, and unlike many other aromatic woods, they retain their fragrance for decades. Various unrelated plants with similarly scented wood or oil include: 1  Adenanthera pavonina-sandalwood tree, red or false red sandalwood. 2  Baphia nitida-camwood, also known as African sandalwood. 3  Eremophila mitchellii-sandalwood; false sandalwood (also sandalbox).
Last but not least, sandalwood is a key ingredient in the floriental (floral-ambery) fragrance family – when combined with white florals such as jasmine, ylang ylang, gardenia, plumeria, orange blossom, tuberose, etc. Sandalwood oil in India is widely used in the cosmetic industry. Various unrelated plants with similarly scented wood or oil include: 1  Adenanthera pavonina-sandalwood tree, red or false red sandalwood. 2  Baphia nitida-camwood, also known as African sandalwood. 3  Eremophila mitchellii-sandalwood; false sandalwood (also sandalbox).
To me, sandalwood is the smoothest and sweetest of all of the wood notes. The sweetness from sandalwood is not like most sweet notes; the only sweetness I can compare it with is vanilla. As both of these notes are creamy, sweet, and have a little spice. They both have the same construction and feel. It's not what you look like when you're doing what you're doing; it's what you're doing when you're doing what you look like you're doing.. It's not what you look like when you're doing what you're doing; it's what you're doing when you're doing what you look like you're doing.. 21st January 2011, 04:21 PM #4.
What it Smells Like. Sandalwood essential oil provides perfumes with a striking wood aroma. It has a sweet, fresh chypre odor, which is widely employed in the fragrance industry as a base note. It has excellent blending and harmonizing qualities and is valued as a fixative ingredient for other perfume ingredients. In this article, we explain where this popular fragrance ingredient comes from, what it smells like and we share actual perfumes that contain sandlewood. Sandalwood oil is used widely as a base note in modern perfumery and cosmetic production.
Sandalwood does not smell spicey, piney, sweet or turpey at all. These typical sandalwood smell associations are from cedar or other woods or spice that are often mixed with sandalwood. Sandalwood is a gentle creamy scent with an effortlessly elevating almost unnoticeable resinous body. It's not what you look like when you're doing what you're doing; it's what you're doing when you're doing what you look like you're doing.. It's not what you look like when you're doing what you're doing; it's what you're doing when you're doing what you look like you're doing.. 21st January 2011, 04:21 PM #4.
Sandalwood has been valued for its fragrance, carving, medical and religious qualities. It is used in preparing all types of perfume compositions especially Indian attars like Hina, Gulab, Kewda and Jesmine in which the natural essential oils from floral distillation are absorbed in sandalwood oil. Sandalwood smells not unlike other wood scents, except it has a bright and fresh edge with few natural analogues. When used in. smaller proportions in a perfume, it is an excellent fixative to enhance the other fragrances.
Sandalwood as a note is a striking wood base. It has a bright and fresh edge with few natural analogues. In most perfumes and scents I find it very strong. It permeates a small space easily and can be very heady despite the crisp edge. For me, the scent of sandalwood lingers, smelling like a memory after a time. First and foremost sandalwood represents the earth. A sandalwood scented hero is a man of dirt and woods; he is robust, practical, and worldly. In a word sandalwood is manliness. Secondly, sandalwood represents wealth, luxury, and status because it is scarce, expensive, and refined.
Corey Member. ClubmanRob has a good handle on it, but I highly recommend getting different samples from different vendors if you're interested in the stuff. I have the TOBS Sandalwood shave cream, and it smells a little medicine-y, but fades nicely into a more woodsy smell. It also smells almost nothing like the Sandalwood soap (regular soap, not shave soap) I got from a natural food place. 
Although it is classified as a wood, the scent of sandalwood is a blend of floral and creamy notes. It has none of the raspy sharpness of rosewood or the pencil shaving bite of cedarwood or certainly nothing earthy or damp like vetiver. 