Lesson Summary. Let's review. Contingency planning is the process of developing responses in advance for various situations that might impact business. To protect the business as much as possible, it's very important to have a contingency plan in place in order to mitigate any issues that may arise. for Teachers for Schools for Companies. Every business is impacted by events and a poor response to those events could, in extreme cases, result in the loss of the business. Learn what contingency planning is, why we do it, and the process for implementing it at your company.
For the play of this title, see The Contingency Plan. A contingency plan is a plan devised for an outcome other than in the usual (expected) plan. It is often used for risk management when an exceptional risk that, though unlikely, would have catastrophic consequences. Contingency plans are often devised by governments or businesses. 
Contingency Planning Overview: Health Care Facilities continued LOSS CONTROL TIPS The purpose of contingency planning is to have a ready-made “plan of attack” for recognizing and responding to with unplanned closings, shutdowns, or evacuations from a nursing facility. 
The purpose of a contingency plan is for a business to have a specific set of instructions in place if certain events that may interrupt normal business operations occur. 
A contingency plan is an outline of procedures to follow in case of a major event, such as a server crash or building fire. A contingency plan is a written way of saying, that should a problem arise, you have thought of ways to prevent the loss of vital information or reduce the impact to your business. Many quality driven organizations and companies have contingency plans not only for individual systems, but for whole departments
An important element to managing project risk is understanding, what is contingency planning. You see there is no point raising critical risks without having a contingency plan you can implement to mitigate it should they occur. 5. Start contingency planning on those risks within your control. Now that you've done this you are able to get to grips with contingency planning. Now all you have to do is simply create an additional column in your Risk Log in which you can detail how you would mitigate that risk.
Part of the Business terms glossary: A contingency plan is a course of action designed to help an organization respond effectively to a significant future event or situation that may or may not happen. A contingency plan is sometimes referred to as Plan B, because it can be also used as an alternative for action if expected results fail to materialize. Contingency planning is a component of business continuity, disaster recovery and risk management. The seven-steps outlined for an IT contingency plan in the NIST 800-34 Rev. 1 publication are: 1. Develop the contingency planning policy statement
Contingency plans protect a company from unforeseen threats. business 2 image by Nathalie P from Fotolia.com. A contingency is an unexpected event or situation that affects the financial health, professional image, or market share of a company. It is usually a negative event, but can also be an unexpected windfall such as a huge order. Anything that unexpectedly disrupts a company's expected operation can harm the company even if the disruption is because of a windfall.