A double bed ... also known as a full bed ... measures 54 wide x 75 long..   By contrast, a single bed ... also known as a twin bed ... measures 39 wide x 75 long … .   A queen bed is 60 wide x 80 long, and a king bed is 76 wide by 80 long. The measurements for a full size fitted bed sheet is 54-inches by  75-inches. The measurements for a full size flat bed sheet is  81-inches by 96-inches.
It is a tight fit for two adults and the same length as a twin. Two adults sleeping on a full size is equivalent to each person sleeping on a crib mattress (27 inches of sleep space). Most people with a sleeping partner opt for the queen size. Full can sometimes be special ordered in extra long. 
At 72 inches wide by 84 inches long, the California king mattress is perfect for those who want more length in the bed. The California king is 4 inches narrower than a king size mattress, but it is 4 inches longer. This bed size still gives each sleeper 6 inches more sleeping width than a queen size bed. Popular in many college dorm rooms, the twin XL (extra-long) mattress is approximately 6 inches longer than a twin mattress. This makes it perfect for taller adults. Twin XL beds are approximately 39 inches wide by 80 inches long.
A twin mattress is the smallest possible mattress size, other than a crib-sized mattress. Twin mattress dimensions are approximately 38 inches wide by 75 inches long. Both twin and full sizes are approximately 75 inches long, which may be too short for some adults, especially men. Full Mattress. Sometimes still called a double mattress, a full size mattress is 53 inches wide, which is just 15 inches wider than a twin size (single). That leaves each partner only 27 inches of personal space, or about the width of a crib.
The most common non-standard dimensions for full size and queen size beds include the following: 1  Full XL beds are extra-long. 2  They still measure 54 inches (137 cm) across but are 80 inches (203 cm) long, just like a standard queen size bed. 3  This is ideal for tall people who want a bed that isn’t too wide. 1
+. The full size mattress, also known as a double mattress, is approximately 16 inches wider than a twin mattress, but does not provide enough added room for two people to sleep comfortably. It may be too short for adults taller than 5’5”. Full beds are 54 inches wide by 74 inches tall. A full size mattress is a great choice for growing children, plus the added space allows for parents to lie down while tucking their kids in for the night. Popular in many college dorm rooms, the twin XL (extra-long) mattress is approximately 6 inches longer than a twin mattress. This makes it perfect for taller adults. Twin XL beds are approximately 39 inches wide by 80 inches long.
A twin size mattress is the smallest mattress available and is best suited for one child or one adult. The dimensions of a twin size mattress are approximately 39 inches wide by 74 inches long. Taller adults may be more comfortably sleeping on a twin XL bed size. Popular in many college dorm rooms, the twin XL (extra-long) mattress is approximately 6 inches longer than a twin mattress. This makes it perfect for taller adults. Twin XL beds are approximately 39 inches wide by 80
Queen Mattress. Queen mattress dimensions are 60 inches wide by approximately 80 inches long – 6 inches wider and 5 inches longer than a full size mattress. These added inches can make all the difference in comfort, especially for couples, and have made the queen size mattress today's most popular mattress size. Full Mattress. Sometimes still called a double mattress, a full size mattress is 53 inches wide, which is just 15 inches wider than a twin size (single). That leaves each partner only 27 inches of personal space, or about the width of a crib.
A full size bed is 54 inches wide and 75 inches long while queen size beds are 60 inches in width and 80 inches in length. 1 Full XL beds are extra-long. 2  They still measure 54 inches (137 cm) across but are 80 inches (203 cm) long, just like a standard queen size bed. 3  This is ideal for tall people who want a bed that isn’t too wide.