On the northern bank of the River Crana as it enters Lough Swilly sits the three-story O'Doherty's Keep, which is the only surviving part of an original 14th century Norman castle. The first two levels of the keep were built after 1333. Buncrana is the historic home of the O'Doherty clan and originally developed around the defensive tower known as O'Doherty's Keep at the mouth of the River Crana. The town moved to its present location just south of the River Crana when George Vaughan built the main street in 1718.
Come see what Co. Donegal has to offer. The Harbour Inn is perfect for a family getaway or short break with plenty to do for all, located at the start of the Inishowen 100 - a scenic and unforgettable drive round the peninsula at the most northern point of Ireland. Buncrana town being only 2 minutes away with a great variety of shops, bars and restaurants
Inishowen (Irish: Inis Eoghain, meaning island of Eoghan) is a peninsula in County Donegal, Ireland. It is the largest peninsula in all of the island of Ireland. Inishowen is a picturesque location with a rich history. The peninsula includes Ireland's most northerly point, Malin Head, along with Lagg sand dunes, some of the highest in Europe, as well as the Grianan of Aileach, a ringfort that served as the royal seat of the Kingdom of Ailech. At the last Census of Ireland in 2006, Inishowen counted a population of 31,802, a growth of 8.4% over 1996. Buncrana is the largest town in Inishowen, with a 2006 population of 3,394 in its urban area.
Buncrana is located on the eastern shore of Lough Swilly in north County Donegal. The main urban area of the town is situated between the Crana River to the north and the Mill River to the south. Buncrana is the historic home of the O'Doherty clan and originally developed around the defensive tower known as O'Doherty's Keep at the mouth of the River Crana. The town moved to its present location just south of the River Crana when George Vaughan built the main street in 1718.
County Donegal [1] , is in Northwest Ireland and Lakelands and is the northernmost county in Ireland, stretching further to the north than any part of Northern Ireland. Get out [edit]. Depending on where you are in the county, trips to Derry and Sligo are easily accomplished. Enniskillen is accessible from the south of the county. From the east of the county, a day trip to Belfast is not out of the question.
Excellent8.7. “ We were up in Northern Ireland to check out the giants causeway and wanted a chilled place to spend the night after a couple of tough days travelling. It is located about 20min out of Londonderry and the small town of buncrana offers plenty of food options and plenty of bars. “ Paid £78 for dinner, bed and breakfast for 2 for a night in this hotel which proved to be excellent value for money. Leisure facilities were great as was the food, bar and hotel in general. I would not hesitatate to stay here again.
Buncrana, County Donegal. Buncrana is a scenic town that is located in the west of Inishowen Peninsula, in north of County Donegal. The town overlooks the beautiful Lough Swilly. Buncrana is located 10 km away from Derry and 43 km from Letterkenny. It is renowned as the largest town situated in Inishowen Peninsula and second largest in County Donegal. Apart from serving as a gateway to Inishowen, it is also the main urban centre of the Peninsula. Commonly, Buncrana is also popular as Parthas Eireann, which in Irish means Ireland's Paradise. The town is called Bun Cranncha in Irish, which refers to the foot of the River Crana. In ancient times, Buncrana was the chief stronghold of the O'Doherty Clan, who proclaimed themselves as the Lords of Inishowen.
Talk [edit]. As with the rest of the Republic of Ireland, Irish/ Gaeilge is the official first language, and is used as such by many in the north and west of the county, unlike most of the rest of the island. Donegal is home to the largest Gaeltacht area in Ireland. Get out [edit]. Depending on where you are in the county, trips to Derry and Sligo are easily accomplished. Enniskillen is accessible from the south of the county. From the east of the county, a day trip to Belfast is not out of the question.