The interior of the nose is lined with mucous membrane, and most of the membrane is covered with minute hairlike projections called cilia. Moving in waves these cilia sweep out from the nasal passages the nasal mucus, which may contain pollen, dust, and bacteria from the air. the specialized structure of the head that serves both as the organ of smell and as the first segment of the respiratory apparatus. Air breathed in through the nose is warmed, humidified and filtered by the richly vascular mucous membrane.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The function of mucus is to produce a blanket that carries debri and pathogens (disease causing microorganisms like bacteria and viruses) out of the respiratory tract with the action of cilia. The cilia in the nose play a major role in the sense of smell. The  cilia transmit the smell to the olfactory nerve. They also catch  toxins like chemicals, viruses, and bac … teria and cause them to  become trapped in mucus and swallowed instead of being inhaled into  the lungs.
The nasal mucous membrane lines the nasal cavities, and is intimately adherent to the periosteum or perichondrium. It is continuous with the skin through the nares, and with the mucous membrane of the nasal part of the pharynx through the choanae. Structure of the Mucous Membrane (Fig. 857).—The epithelium covering the mucous membrane differs in its character according to the functions of the part of the nose in which it is found. In the respiratory region it is columnar and ciliated
Like the nasal cavity, the sinuses are lined with a mucous membrane composed of cells that produce mucus and have cilia. Incoming dirt particles are trapped by the mucus, and then moved by the cilia into the nasal cavity, through small sinus openings. Because these openings are so small, the drainage can easily be blocked by conditions such as colds or allergies, which produce swelling of the mucous membranes. Know your nose The nasal cavity is divided into two passages by the nasal septum. The nasal septum is composed of both bone and cartilage and extends from the nostrils to the back of the throat. Bones called nasal conchae project into the lateral walls of the nasal cavity, forming a series of folds called turbinates.
The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the nasal conchae. It is also thick over the septum; but it is very thin in the meatuses on the floor of the nasal cavities, and in the various sinuses. It is one of the most commonly infected tissues in adults and children. Structure of the Mucous Membrane (Fig. 857).—The epithelium covering the mucous membrane differs in its character according to the functions of the part of the nose in which it is found. In the respiratory region it is columnar and ciliated
Scattered throughout the cilia are goblet … cells that secrete mucus which helps protect the lining of the bronchus and trap microorganisms. The purpose of mucus is to lubricate and protect the organs that it lines. The cilia in the nose play a major role in the sense of smell. The  cilia transmit the smell to the olfactory nerve. They also catch  toxins like chemicals, viruses, and bac … teria and cause them to  become trapped in mucus and swallowed instead of being inhaled into  the lungs.
The interior lining of the nose is a mucous membrane. Healthy lung function is aided by a thin mucus lining. The mucous membrane that lines the urogenital tract can make someone vulnerable to infections passed between sexual partners. Mucosa is commonly found in the respiratory tract. 10 most extreme places on Earth. A mucous membrane is a layer of epithelial tissue which lines an area of the body which comes into contact with air. Mucous membranes are moist because of the presence of glands which secrete a thick fluid known as mucus, and they are important for a number of bodily functions.
Mucus in the airways helps trap foreign particles to protect the  respiratory system. Cilia are tiny beating hairs that sweep the  mucus up to your throat where it is either … coughed out or swallowed  by the acids in your stomach. The cilia are like a janitor who  always sweeps up the messes. The cilia in the nose play a major role in the sense of smell. The  cilia transmit the smell to the olfactory nerve. They also catch  toxins like chemicals, viruses, and bac … teria and cause them to  become trapped in mucus and swallowed instead of being inhaled into  the lungs.
Ciliated mucous membrane lines the nose, closely adhering to the periosteum. The mucous membrane is continuous with the skin through the nares and with the mucous membrane of the nasal part of the pharynx through the choanae. the specialized structure of the head that serves both as the organ of smell and as the first segment of the respiratory apparatus. Air breathed in through the nose is warmed, humidified and filtered by the richly vascular mucous membrane.