CISS. A gene on chromosome 19p12 that encodes a protein which may act as a cytokine receptor subunit, possibly playing a regulatory role in the immune system and during foetal and (possibly) nervous system development.
Epson CISS L Series Refillable Ink Cartridges. Note: This post has been updated due to the results of our extensive Project CISS Hands-On Test. CISS (Continuous Ink Supply System) is an inking system for inkjet printers that consists of a large external refillable ink supply. 1 All CISS kits use generic inks and most vendors use the same ink for every printer model. 2  Since each OEM printer vendor uses ink that is matched with their print head and ink system technology: 3  Generic inks can cause wasted prints due to print quality issues.
A CISS consists of cartridges, similar to the original ones, multi-channel trails connecting the donor-containers for inks with cartridges and respective ink containers (reservoirs). CISS functioning mechanism is simple. During the printing process inks are consumed. As a result there is a rarefaction appearing in the cartridges. A CISS is fully geometric (the system is designed by the communicating vessels principle), that is why the rarefaction is compensated for by the ink arrival into the cartridges along the multi-channel trails. In such a way constant ink availability in the printing head is provided.
The CISS (also known as the continuous ink supply system) is compatible with many models of inkjet printers. The system delivers a continuous flow of ink to a special type of ink cartridge, through a capillary system connected to external reservoirs. When purchased, the CISS is delivered full with ink (about 100ml for each color) and later on, when the ink runs out, you only have to buy and refill the ink for the respective color. The ink used in CISS systems is more economical and you can be sure that you will use all of it.
The external ink tanks, which are part of the CISS are usually located near the printer. There can be 4, 5, 6 or 8 separate tanks, depending on your printer. Each ink tank is filled with a certain color of ink. Each tube carries the ink from the external tank to the ink cartridges inside the printer. When purchased, the CISS is delivered full with ink (about 100ml for each color) and later on, when the ink runs out, you only have to buy and refill the ink for the respective color. The ink used in CISS systems is more economical and you can be sure that you will use all of it.
The CISS (continuous ink supply system) is a great alternative for black & white and color printing, as it delivers many benefits to the end user: – Save up to 95% on printing costs (YES, up to 20 times cheaper !) compared with ordinary ink cartridges. When purchased, the CISS is delivered full with ink (about 100ml for each color) and later on, when the ink runs out, you only have to buy and refill the ink for the respective color. The ink used in CISS systems is more economical and you can be sure that you will use all of it.
There are a number of derivatives of the terms in use, including cis male for male assigned male at birth, cis female for female assigned female at birth, analogously cis man and cis woman, as well as cissexism (or cissexual assumption or cisnormativity). Sociologists Kristen Schilt and Laurel Westbrook define cisgender as a label for individuals who have a match between the gender they were assigned at birth, their bodies, and their personal identity.
Each CISS has the following components 1  : Multichannel cable or tube that transfers ink from the ink vessels to the OEM print heads. 2  Ink vessels or tanks (one for each ink color). 3  Modified OEM ink cartridges. 4  IC chips that defeat the OEM cartridge detection system (dependent on the make and model of the printer). 1 All CISS kits use generic inks and most vendors use the same ink for every printer model. 2  Since each OEM printer vendor uses ink that is matched with their print head and ink system technology: 3  Generic inks can cause wasted prints due to print quality issues.
CISS may refer to: 1  CISS-FM, Canadian radio station. 2  Continuous Ink Supply System. 3  Center for Intelligence and Security Studies, a center at the University of Mississippi. 4  Concordia International School Shanghai ,a coeducational day school Preschool to Grade 12 in Shanghai. 
CISS has a number of external tanks that supply ink to the OEM ink cartridges, the number of which depends on how many cartridges a particular printer uses in standard form. At first CISS utilized ink bottles with a supply tube and an air filter. 1 All CISS kits use generic inks and most vendors use the same ink for every printer model. 2  Since each OEM printer vendor uses ink that is matched with their print head and ink system technology: 3  Generic inks can cause wasted prints due to print quality issues.