Lentigo maligna (also known as Lentiginous melanoma on sun-damaged skin) is a melanoma in situ that consists of malignant cells but does not show invasive growth. Lentigo maligna is not the same as lentigo maligna melanoma, and should be discussed separately. 
A solar lentigo is a benign, flat, light to darkish brown growth that may appear on the skin singly. Alternately some people have many of them and in the plural form, these are called lentigines. 
Abnormalities of the genitalia occur most often in males with multiple lentigines syndrome. The most common abnormality in affected males is undescended testes (cryptorchidism). Other males may have a urethra that opens on the underside of the penis (hypospadias). 
Lentigines (pleural of lentigo) are flat brown lesions which do not darken following sun exposure (thus differentiating them from ephelides or true freckles). One study of Caucasian women found that lentigines were signs of photo-damage whereas there was a genetic component in true freckles. 1 Lentigines profusa-in this condition, there are widespread lentigines over the arms, legs and genitalia. 2  There are no trigger factors or associated abnormalities (thus differentiating them from a number of lentigo-associated syndromes, see below). 3  The lesions can be 5 mm-2 cm in diameter.
Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! Lentigo: A type of freckle that is a small tan, brown, or black spot which tends to be darker than the usual (ephelis-type) freckle and which do not fade in the winter. This kind of spot is referred to as lentigo simplex. Although lentigines may be part of a genetic disorder, for the most part they are just isolated and unimportant spots. (The genetic disorder in which lentigines occur is called the LEOPARD syndrome .). Lentigo is the Latin word for lentil.
Medical Definition of LENTIGO. 1. : a small melanotic spot in the skin in which the formation of pigment is unrelated to exposure to sunlight and which is potentially malignant; especially: nevus—compare freckle. 2. : freckle. 3 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  lentigo (noun). 2  lentigo maligna (noun). 
(See Atlas 2, Part O.). lentigo malig´na (malignant lentigo) see lentigo maligna melanoma. senile lentigo (lentigo seni´lis,) (solar lentigo) a small smooth round brownish patch appearing on the face, neck, or back of the hands of many older people, caused by an increase in pigment; these are entirely harmless. solar lentigo. A flat brown spot usually appearing on sun-exposed skin, such as the face or the back of the hands. They are commonly found on the skin of elderly individuals. Although they are popularly referred to as “liver spots, ” they are not caused by diseases of the liver.
A lentigo is a small, sharply circumscribed, pigmented macule surrounded by normal-appearing skin. Histologic findings may include hyperplasia of the epidermis and increased pigmentation of the basal layer. 
A lentigo (plural: lentigines) is a spot on the skin that is darker (usually brown) than the surrounding skin. Lentigines are more common among Caucasian patients, especially those with fair skin, but can occur in anyone. A skin tag is a small flap of tissue that hangs off the skin by a connecting stalk. Skin tags are benign and are not dangerous. They are usually found on the neck, chest, back, armpits, under the breasts, or in the groin area.
A lentigo (/lɛnˈtaɪɡoʊ/) (plural lentigines, /lɛnˈtɪdʒɨniz/) is a small pigmented spot on the skin with a clearly defined edge, surrounded by normal-appearing skin. It is a harmless (benign) hyperplasia of melanocytes which is linear in its spread. Lentigines are distinguished from freckles (ephelis) based on the proliferation of melanocytes. Freckles have a relatively normal number of melanocytes but an increased amount of melanin. A lentigo has an increased number