They also range in shape, because “riprap” can include a variety of stone types: granite, fieldstone, limestone, and trap rock, to name a few. Now, all of that is what you might call the “dictionary” definition of riprap. Here are a few things that lakeshore experts know about riprap stones: Usually Fieldstone (also known as glacier stone or river rock) is the best type of rock for a riprap shoreline. 
Riprap DefinitionRiprap is a permanent cover of rock used to stabilize streambanks, provide in-stream channelstability, and provide a stabilized outlet below concentrated flows.This BMP addresses using riprap to stabilize streambanks, line channels and provide stable out-lets. All bare soil on the slope above the riprap should be stabilized with seed and mulch, or sod.See the Vegetative BMPs.3. When riprap is used in conjunction with other vegetative practices or bioengineering, theriprap should extend 1 foot above the ordinary high water mark.
Definition of RIPRAP. 1. : a foundation or sustaining wall of stones or chunks of concrete thrown together without order (as in deep water); also: a layer of this or similar material on an embankment slope to prevent erosion. 2. : material used for riprap. ADVERTISEMENT.
A 'riprap', Snyder tells us elsewhere, is 'a cobble of stones laid on steep slick rock to make a trail for horses in mountains'; it provides sure footing for a literal ascent just as poetry, 'a riprap on the slick rock of metaphysics', provides sure footing for a metaphorical one. The body of the mindthis is the province of poetry, a riprap on the abstractions of the soul that keeps men in tune with carnal eloquence. Snyder's equation is one of proportions: poetry is to metaphysics as riprap is to slick rock.
Rip Rap. Definition: Riprap — also known as rip rap, rubble, shot rock or rock armour — is rock or other material used to armor shorelines, streambeds, bridge abutments, pilings and other shoreline structures against scour, water or ice erosion. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Riprap (also known as rip rap, revetment, shot rock or rock armour) is rock or other material used to stabilize shore. Riprap reduces water erosion by resisting the hydraulic attack and dissipating the energy of flowing water or waves. The shape of rock is important
Riprap stone refers to rock that has been initially crushed and then screened. This type of gravel is extremely rugged, and does not get washed away or immersed in the soil easily. As a result, it is often used in construction or for commercial applications. Smaller riprap stone sizes can be ideal for creating a base for a driveway or gravel parking lot. That’s because they are durable enough to withstand a great deal of wear, yet won’t be extremely bumpy to drive on. Since riprap is also ideal for preventing erosion, this type of rock might be used near ditches.
Riprap, also known as rip rap, rip-rap, shot rock, rock armour or rubble, is rock or other material used to armor shorelines, streambeds, bridge abutments, pilings and other shoreline structures against scour and water or ice erosion. 