The digestive system. The digestive system is made up of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract—also called the digestive tract—and the liver, pancreas, and gallbladder. The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
This one long tube of the digestive system—the digestive tract—includes the esophagus, stomach, small intestine and large intestine along with accessory organs like the liver, gallbladder, pancreas, and salivary glands. The digestive tract of a normal adult human being is about 30 feet long.
The digestive tract is the tube that extends from the mouth to the anus, and it consists of the (1) mouth, (2) pharynx, (3) esophagus, (4) stomach, (5) small intestine, and (6) large intestine. The accessory organs include the (1) teeth, (2) tongue, (3) salivary glands, (4) liver, (5) gallbladder, and (6) pancreas.
The accessory organs of digestion include the salivary glands, pancreas, liver, and gallbladder The pancreas makes digestive jucies called enzymes which help to digest food fu … rther. The gall-bladder stores bile (which is made in the liver), the bile helps to digest fatty acids.
The alimentary tract of the digestive system is composed of the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small and large intestines, rectum and anus. Associated with the alimentary tract are the following accessory organs: salivary glands, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas.
Confidence votes 368. The accessory organs of digestion include the salivary glands, pancreas, liver, gallbladder. salivary glands, teeth, and tongue. The pancreas makes digestive juices called enzymes which help to digest food further. The gallbladder stores bile (which is made in the liver), the bile helps to digest fats.
The digestive system consists of the digestive tract and accessory digestive organs. The digestive tract is also called the alimentary (relating to nourishment) tract or the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, although the term gastrointestinal technically refers to only the stomach and the intestines.
Accessory Organs. The salivary glands, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas are not part of the digestive tract, but they have a role in digestive activities and are considered accessory organs.