Geography. All the nine islands of the Azores Archipelago are volcanic origin and are located in the North Atlantic, scattered along a 600 km stretch of ocean from Santa Maria to Corvo, approximately between 37° and 40° north latitude and 25° and 31° west longitude. According to 2011 data, 246,772 people live in this island territory that covers 2,325 sq.km, distancing 1,600 km from mainland Europe (Portugal) and 2,454 km from the North American continent (Canada).
The Azores [1] are a group of islands in the Atlantic Ocean and are an autonomous region of Portugal. It is an ultra peripheral area of the European Union. Latest census data reports just over 250,000 residents live on the islands. These nine volcanic islands are situated in the northern Atlantic, about 1,500 km (950 mi) from the western edge of the Iberian Peninsula and about 3,900 km (2,400 mi) from North America. Seismic activity, though rare, still occurs on occasion.
The islands of the archipelago are divided in three geographical groups: the Eastern Group, comprising Santa Maria and Sao São, miguel The Central, group Including, Terceira, Graciosa Sao, São jorge Pico, and faial And The, western group Composed by Corvo. and flores According to 2011 data, 246,772 people live in this island territory that covers 2,325 sq.km, distancing 1,600 km from mainland Europe (Portugal) and 2,454 km from the North American continent (Canada).
Azores Description. The widely-separated Azores, 972 miles (1564 km) directly west of Lisbon, Portugal, includes nine islands (all volcanic in origin). Colonized by the Portuguese in the mid-15th century, their strategic position near the middle of the Atlantic Ocean is their most valuable asset. Print this map. The widely-separated Azores, 972 miles (1564 km) directly west of Lisbon, Portugal, includes nine islands (all volcanic in origin).
A lush island paradise in Portugal just waiting to be discovered. Why Go Now This lush, volcanic archipelago is an insider's find thanks to its slightly inconvenient location—in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, about mid-way between the New York and Lisbon.
In addition to this, the government of the Azores employs a large percentage of the population directly or indirectly in many aspects of the service and tertiary sectors. There are nine major Azorean islands and an islet cluster, in three main groups. It is defined by a line of submarine volcanoes and island mounts that extend northwest to southeast for about 550 kilometres (342 miles), from the area west of Graciosa until the islets of the Formigas, that includes the islands of Graciosa, Terceira and Sao São. miguel
All the islands have volcanic origins, although some, such as Santa Maria, have had no recorded activity since the islands were settled. Mount Pico, on the island of Pico, is the highest point in Portugal, at 2,351 m (7,713 ft). The Azores are actually some of the tallest mountains on the planet, measured from their base at the bottom of the ocean to their peaks, which thrust high above the surface of the Atlantic. It is defined by a line of submarine volcanoes and island mounts that extend northwest to southeast for about 550 kilometres (342 miles), from the area west of Graciosa until the islets of the Formigas, that includes the islands of Graciosa, Terceira and Sao São. miguel
Details will be posted as they become available. Welcome to the Azore Islands site of the World GenWeb Project. This site was designed as a resource for genealogists researching their ancestors; as well as anyone having an interest in the Azore Islands. If you are a genealogist, I hope you will find some information here that will aid you in your research. If you would like to know more about the Azore Islands, hopefully, you will find that information here as well. There are many things here that will help you to research your ancestors and to find out more about their lives.