Check out the cool trivia and have fun learning about some of our planet's most amazing features. Sedimentary Rock Facts. Enjoy our sedimentary rock facts for kids. Find interesting information and a range of examples that help explain what sedimentary rocks are and what makes them different from other kinds of rocks. Mudstone forms the metamorphic rock slate. Chalk is a soft, white form of limestone. Flint is a hard, sedimentary form of the mineral quartz. Learn about igneous rocks, metamorphic rocks, other rocks and minerals or fossils. Make a fossil cast or check out our rock sorting lesson plan.
Sedimentary rock is rock that is made up of minerals, sand, mud, and even the remains of living things. It is often softer than other types of rock. Fun Earth Science Facts for Kids All about Sedimentary Rocks – Sedimentary Rocks with Fossils image. 
Sedimentary rocks. Sedimentary rocks are made when sand, mud and pebbles get laid down in layers. Over time, these layers are squashed under more and more layers. Eventually, the layers are lithified – turned to rock. Sedimentary rocks can be formed in deserts, lakes, rivers and seas. 
Weathering is the process of breaking down rocks and minerals into smaller pieces by water, wind, and ice. Sedimentary rocks are formed from the breaking apart of other rocks (igneous, metamorphic, or sedimentary rocks) and the cementation, compaction and recrystallization of these broken pieces of rock. Sedimentary rocks are formed in three ways from these different sized sediments. A sedimentary rock is a layered rock that is formed from the compaction, cementation, and the recrystallization of sediments. Compaction is the squeezing together of layers of sediment due to the great weight of overlying layers of rock.
Sedimentary rock is one of three types of rock found on Earth. The others are called igneous and metamorphic. Igneous and metamorphic rocks are the most common rock types in Earth's crust. Sedimentary rock is the most common rock type found at its surface.
Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia, Britannica. Inc sedimentary rock is one of three types of rock found On. Earth the others are called igneous and. Metamorphic igneous and metamorphic rocks are the most common rock types In'earth s. crust The others are called igneous and metamorphic. Igneous and metamorphic rocks are the most common rock types in Earth's crust. Sedimentary rock is the most common rock type found at its surface.
Lesson Summary. Sedimentary rocks are made of rock or mineral fragments deposited in layers by water, wind or ice at the earth's surface. Individual grains, or clasts, are bound together by compaction or cementation, or both. Clastic rocks are made from weathered rock debris. They're one of the three types of rocks (the other two being igneous and metamorphic), and are the rocks formed by processes acting on the earth's surface. Sediment refers to particles, or grains, of weathered rock or mineral debris.
Sandstone forms the metamorphic rock quartzite. Mudstone forms the metamorphic rock slate. Chalk is a soft, white form of limestone. Flint is a hard, sedimentary form of the mineral quartz. Learn about igneous rocks, metamorphic rocks, other rocks and minerals or fossils. Make a fossil cast or check out our rock sorting lesson plan.
Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) exposed at the Earth's surface can become a sedimentary rock. The forces of wind, rain, snow, and ice combine to break down or dissolve (weather), and carry away (transport) rocks exposed at the surface. 
Save. sedimentary /ˌsɛdəˈmɛntəri/ adjective. sedimentary. /ˌsɛdəˈmɛntəri/. adjective. Learner's definition of SEDIMENTARY. technical. : made from material that sinks to the bottom of a liquid: made from sediment. sedimentary layers/deposits. Sandstone is a sedimentary rock. [=a type of rock formed when sediments that were deposited in ancient times were pressed together and became hard]. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples.