195 pages on this wiki. Bungie is an American video game developer founded in May 1991 under the name Bungie Software Products Corporation by two undergraduate students at the University of Chicago, Alex Seropian and Jason Jones. 
Bungie, Inc. is an American video game developer located in Bellevue, Washington, United States. On October 5, 2007, Bungie announced that it had split from Microsoft and become a privately held independent company, Bungie LLC (Microsoft retained ownership of the Halo franchise IP).
The company was established in May 1991 as Bungie Software Products Corporation by University of Chicago undergraduate student Alex Seropian, who later brought in programmer Jason Jones after publishing Jones' game Minotaur: The Labyrinths of Crete. On October 5, 2007, Bungie announced that it had split from Microsoft and become a privately held independent company, Bungie LLC (Microsoft retained ownership of the Halo franchise IP).
Microsoft acquired Bungie in 2000; the project it was working on was repurposed into a launch title for Microsoft's Xbox console, called Halo: Combat Evolved. Halo became the Xbox's  killer application , selling millions of copies and spawning a billion dollar franchise. On October 5, 2007, Bungie announced that it had split from Microsoft and become a privately held independent company, Bungie LLC (Microsoft retained ownership of the Halo franchise IP).
Bungie Towers is the common (and somewhat ironic, as the building is only two stories tall) name for the former location of Bungie Studios. Bungie Towers was a top-secret high-security facility at 434 Kirkland Way, and served as the physical space where Bungie Studios' employees worked from 2004 until 2010. Location Edit. Bungie Towers was located in Kirkland, Washington in the Puget Sound area, west of Microsoft. A more specific indication would be hazardous to health. Nearby is a local Starbucks and a few other commercial venues. The Starbucks building, along with the entire office, can be seen in the Bungie Studio Tour.
It was released on September 9, 2014, for the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, and Xbox One consoles. Destiny marked Bungie's first new console franchise since the Halo series, and it is the first game in a ten-year agreement between Bungie and Activision. Set in a mythic science fiction world, the game features a massively-multiplayer shared-world environment with elements of role-playing gam
Bungie LLC, formerly Bungie Software Products Corporation prior to its emancipation from Microsoft, is a video game developer founded in 1991. They are the creators of Halo, as well as other video game series. 