In his own life, too, the “Harry Potter” star has been open in addressing persistent rumors that he is gay. When MTV News had a chance to chat with Radcliffe during a shoot for a Trevor Project public-service announcement, the 20-year-old actor didn’t shy away from talking about the longstanding gossip. by Eric Ditzian 3/1/2010. Through his work with the Trevor Project, a nonprofit organization that offers suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth, Daniel Radcliffe has spoken passionately about the importance of helping these at-risk kids and removing the stigma of coming out.
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is a 2007 fantasy film directed by David Yates and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures. It is based on the novel of the same name by J. K. Rowling. The film, which is the fifth instalment in the Harry Potter film series, was written by Michael Goldenberg (making this the only film in the series not to be scripted by Steve Kloves) and produced by David Heyman and David Barron.
The story follows Harry Potter 's fifth year at Hogwarts as the Ministry of Magic is in denial of Lord Voldemort 's return. The film stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, alongside Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as Harry's best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. The film, which is the fifth instalment in the Harry Potter film series, was written by Michael Goldenberg (making this the only film in the series not to be scripted by Steve Kloves) and produced by David Heyman and David Barron.
Harry used Trevor to practice the Summoning Charm in his and Neville's fourth year. When Harry encountered Neville in the last carriage of the Hogwarts Express in their fifth year, Neville had a one-handed grip on a struggling Trevor. Later, Neville dumped the toad into Harry's lap, so that he could demonstrate the defencive mechanism of his Mimbulus Mimbletonia.
Arena Profile: Trevor Potter. Trevor Potter is the founding President and General Counsel of the Campaign Legal Center, a Washington, D.C. based nonprofit which helped successfully defend the McCain-Feingold law in the lower and Supreme Courts. Mr. Potter has been listed as one of Washington's Best Lawyers by Washingtonian magazine and was recognized as a Super Lawyer by Washington DC Super Lawyers magazine in 2008.
Trevor was Neville Longbottom 's pet toad. He was given to Neville by his Great-Uncle Algie upon Neville's gaining admission to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. When Harry encountered Neville in the last carriage of the Hogwarts Express in their fifth year, Neville had a one-handed grip on a struggling Trevor. Later, Neville dumped the toad into Harry's lap, so that he could demonstrate the defencive mechanism of his Mimbulus Mimbletonia.
He's my hero .... —Trevor talking with Harry Potter about his hero. Trevor Birch was a Ravenclaw student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1990s. In 1996, he became a member of the Duelling Club, and hoped his mother would give him a broomstick for Christmas. He could usually be found at the Clock Tower Courtyard. Unlike most people who thought that Slughorn was a stakeholder, Trevor thought that he was a good teacher. One day he was duelling and beat him. The blow was so powerful that he needed two days recovering in the hospital wing. He was Gilderoy Lockhart 's fan
Neville lost Trevor many times. For example, the first time he came to Hogwarts on the Hogwarts Express, Neville lost Trevor but was soon helped by Hermione Granger who met Harry Potter and Ron Weasley during her search. Professor Flitwick once made Trevor fly around his Charms classroom to skillfully demonstrate levitation spells. When Harry encountered Neville in the last carriage of the Hogwarts Express in their fifth year, Neville had a one-handed grip on a struggling Trevor. Later, Neville dumped the toad into Harry's lap, so that he could demonstrate the defencive mechanism of his Mimbulus Mimbletonia.
tpotter@capdale.com | v-card | PDF. Trevor Potter is a Member in Caplin & Drysdale's Washington, D.C., office, where he leads the firm's Political Law and Exempt Organizations practice groups. He is one of the nation's best-known and experienced campaign and election lawyers. 1 Trevor Potter Quoted in the Congressional Quarterly, the Deregulated Campaign, Congressional Quarterly, September 17, 2011. 2  Trevor Potter Quoted in The Wall Street Journal and Fox News, Perry Used Jet of Donor Who Faces SEC Probe, The Wall Street Journal, Fox News, September 7, 2011.
It is the sequel to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and is followed by Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Live-action filming took place in England and Scotland for exterior locations and Leavesden Film Studios in Watford for interior locations from February to November 2006, with a one-month break in June. The film, which is the fifth instalment in the Harry Potter film series, was written by Michael Goldenberg (making this the only film in the series not to be scripted by Steve Kloves) and produced by David Heyman and David Barron.