Desktop. The Scottish name Gowen is probably derived from the Gaelic word of the same spelling which is interpreted metalsmith.. Very likely the early bearers of the Gowen name in Scotland and Ireland were followers of that trade. The word was also used to describe other metal workers-- goldsmiths, silversmiths, coppersmiths, tinsmiths and even blacksmiths.
Gowen at RootsWeb databases. Gowen in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Gowen genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Gowen surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name
McGabhann, pronounced ma-gow-an is derived from the word gabha pronounced gow-a, meaning Smith and mc meaning son of.. The Irish Gaelic for Gowan is also Mc-Gabhann, suggesting that the names Gowen and Gowan both derived from the one name. Very likely the early bearers of the Gowen name in Scotland and Ireland were followers of that trade. The word was also used to describe other metal workers-- goldsmiths, silversmiths, coppersmiths, tinsmiths and even blacksmiths.
Gowan Name Meaning. Irish (Cavan): reduced Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó ‘gobhann descendant of the’.Smith scottish And: irish shortened form McGowan mcgowan or from the (genitive) gobhainn of ‘gobhan’. smith Gowan Name Meaning. Irish (Cavan): reduced Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó ‘gobhann descendant of the’.Smith scottish And: irish shortened form McGowan mcgowan or from the (genitive) gobhainn of ‘gobhan’. SMITH, GFB, EML Wn In (ireland in the, south), especially these names were also translated As. smith
It is unknown how the slave acquired the Scottish surname Gowen.. If Mihil Gowen were a Portuguese Angolan, as the family tradition of Melungeon ancestry implies, then, in spec-ulation, his original name might have been the Portuguese surname Goyon. When anglicized, it emerged as Gowen. Very likely the early bearers of the Gowen name in Scotland and Ireland were followers of that trade. The word was also used to describe other metal workers-- goldsmiths, silversmiths, coppersmiths, tinsmiths and even blacksmiths.
The McGowan DNA Project. McGowan and variants can be an Irish or a Scottish name. In both Ireland and Scotland, the name derives from the Gaelic word 'gabha', meaning son of the iron worker or sometimes anglicized as 'smith'. Other variants are Gowan, Gowen, Going, Gowanson, and Gow. The Irish/Scottish name Gowen is probably derived from the Gaelic word for 'metalsmith'. (gobha, genetive plural gobhainn), which gives us Gowen/Gowan. Similarly Mac a'Ghobhainn, (Son of the Smith), becomes MacGowan etc.