The total cost of the 2 year physical therapist assistant program including tuition, fees, and books for core courses and general education courses is approximately $12,000. For up-to-date costs go to the CCRI Bursar's Tuition & Fees page.
What is the average salary for a Physical Therapist Assistant? According to the APTA (American Physical Therapy Association) the median income for a PTA is $70,000 depending on position, years of experience, degree of education, geographic location, and practice setting.
A physical therapist's assistant treats patients with limited ability to move or perform daily activities, such as walking and driving. Working under the supervision of licensed physical therapists, PTAs employ methods such as exercises, electrical stimulation and massage.
Physical therapist assistants who are members of the APTA and have at least five years of work experience, 60 hours of continuing education credits, a letter of recommendation and demonstrated leadership abilities may qualify for this credential.
According to the American Physical Therapy Association, there were 233 accredited physical therapist assistant programs in the United States as of 2006. Accredited programs usually last 2 years, or 4 semesters, and culminate in an associate degree.
Salary ranges for physical therapist assistants will vary according to experience and the type of employment setting. A new graduate physical therapist assistant will make approximately $40,000 to $50,000 per year. Experienced physical therapist assistants will make up to $66
Physical therapist assistant (PTA) education, obtained in a CAPTE-accredited two-year associate degree program, prepares graduates for taking the national licensure examination and entering the field of physical therapy with the required knowledge, skills, and behaviors of a PTA.
The correct term is physical therapist assistant and you must have a license. No such term as an assistant physical therapist. To be a p.t.a. you must earn your applied scienc … e associate degree (2 year) from an accredited college (www.apta.org will show you colleges) and pass your boards.
In order to work as a physical therapist, you must complete a Doctor of Physical Therapy degree program. As of 2014, there were 228 physical therapy programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), most of which last three years.