Angina itself is a symptom (or set of symptoms), not a disease. Any of the following may signal angina: 1  An uncomfortable pressure, fullness, squeezing, or pain in the center of the chest. 2  It may also feel like tightness, burning, or a heavy weight. 
Symptoms of angina. The most common symptom of angina is a feeling of pain or discomfort in your chest. The pain can feel tight, dull or heavy. The pain can spread from your chest to your left arm, neck, jaw and back. In some cases, the pain is similar to indigestion. Chest pain may also occur with: 1  breathlessness. 2  feeling sick (nausea).
Angina Symptoms. Most people feel angina symptoms in the chest. The most common symptom is chest pain or pressure, or a strange feeling in the chest. But you might feel symptoms in other parts of your body. Some people feel pain, pressure, or a strange feeling in the back, neck, jaw, or upper belly, or in one or both shoulders or arms. 
Pain and discomfort are the main symptoms of angina. Angina often is described as pressure, squeezing, burning, or tightness in the chest. The pain or discomfort usually starts behind the breastbone. Pain from angina also can occur in the arms, shoulders, neck, jaw, throat, or back. 
Stable angina. Stable angina is the most common type of angina and what most people mean when they refer to angina. People with stable angina have angina symptoms on a regular basis and the symptoms are somewhat predictable (for example, walking up a flight of steps causes chest pain). A. Angina (angina pectoris-Latin for squeezing of the chest) is chest discomfort that occurs when there is a decreased blood oxygen supply to an area of the heart muscle. In most cases, the lack of blood supply is due to a narrowing of the coronary arteries as a result of arteriosclerosis. Angina may be felt as:
Learn more: Angina is chest pain or discomfort caused when your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. It may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The discomfort also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. But, angina is not a disease. 
Angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) is chest pain or discomfort that occurs if an area of your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Angina may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The pain also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. Angina isn't a disease; it's a symptom of an underlying heart problem. Angina usually is a symptom of coronary heart disease (CHD).
Angina-or angina pectoris (Latin for squeezing of the chest) - is chest pain, discomfort, or tightness that occurs when an area of the heart muscle is receiving decreased blood oxygen supply. It is not a disease itself, but rather a symptom of coronary artery disease, the most common type of heart disease. 
Typical and common angina symptoms. The common symptom is a pain, ache, discomfort or tightness that you feel across the front of the chest when you exert yourself. For example, when you walk up a hill or against a strong, cold wind. You may also, or just, feel the pain in your arms, jaw, neck or stomach. 