There are different areas of relationships (dating, marriage, church, friendship, etc.), but for a relationship to be biblical, it must be in accord with the teaching of Scripture. The word, “biblical” is an adjective and simply describes the relationship as one that meets the criterion of the Bible as it defines, describes, and delineates the principles that should characterize any relationship.
Relationship With Christ: A Bible Study. Comment: Reconciliation is a relationship term. It is another word-picture for the gospel, since reconciliation means to make peace between those who used to be enemies. The gospel tells us that we, who were once enemies of God, are now on good terms with him. 
by Matt Slick. Intimacy with God is a hard thing to attain. The word, intimacy, carries with it the aspects of a relationship with someone where you are vulnerable, loving, trusting, etc. To have an intimate relationship with God means that the deepest part of you is having a relationship with a deep part of God. Ask Jesus to reveal your sins to you so that you might repent of them and not hinder the fellowship of intimacy that God so lovingly desires with you. Tweet. About The Author Matt Slick is the President and Founder of the Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry.
The partner with the stricter boundaries should set the norm for the couple. All that being said, there are certain physical boundaries that are clearly biblical. These are not a matter of personal meaning or choice. It is inappropriate to have sex, in any form, prior to marriage. It is also inappropriate to be naked in one another's presence.
Those who ask this question are usually looking for guidelines regarding physical boundaries in dating. However, intimacy is a much broader issue than physicality. A dictionary definition of intimacy talks about close friendship, deep emotional connection, and sexual involvement. To be intimate with someone is to be close to him or her, to reveal private information, to feel linked together. All that being said, there are certain physical boundaries that are clearly biblical. These are not a matter of personal meaning or choice. It is inappropriate to have sex, in any form, prior to marriage. It is also inappropriate to be naked in one another's presence.
My primary purpose as a pastor was to shepherd the people of God and bring them to Christlikeness. When a pastor has an intimate relationship with Christ, he understands what Christ is doing in his people and church. The church is God-centered, God-initiated, and God-oriented. God adds to the Body as it pleases Him. As Scripture unfolds it is fascinating to see the heart of God in His covenant relationship with His people. The essence of being a child of God involves intimate interdependence, which every individual needs for growth and maturity. God created us to have interdependence, but sin causes self-centered independence.
The model of true intimacy is the Trinity. God is a Trinity of persons: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Therefore, our intimacy with God (and with each other) is ultimately a reflection of God's intimacy within the members of the Godhead. This means that intimacy is an essential part of the very nature of God. And because we are made in His image, it is natural to us as well. This is why we are capable of intimacy with others and with God. It is in our nature. Ask Jesus to reveal your sins to you so that you might repent of them and not hinder the fellowship of intimacy that God so lovingly desires with you. Tweet. About The Author Matt Slick is the President and Founder of the Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry.
Sexual knowledge between a husband and wife is the most intimate of knowledge. Husband and wife are no longer two but one flesh. In this regard, in John 17:3, the important thing is not the sexual act but the intimacy of heart and mind that in true love precede the act. The change shows up in the noun form of the word, enteuxis, meaning a petition to a king.. It can be used in the sense of the king summoning someone into his presence or of someone presenting a request to the king.
A pastor’s relationship with God is manifested in his obedience to Scripture. A pastor develops this relationship by immersing himself in Scripture and letting God work in his life. God cleanses His church with the washing of the water by the Word (Ephesians 5:26). As Scripture unfolds it is fascinating to see the heart of God in His covenant relationship with His people. The essence of being a child of God involves intimate interdependence, which every individual needs for growth and maturity. God created us to have interdependence, but sin causes self-centered independence.
(p. 207). He does not use the term immortal or endless, but He describes a kind and quality of life in terms of knowledge and a relationship with the Father and Son, a very intimate relationship. Do not be misled by the limited Strong's definition of the word translated eternal in this verse. The change shows up in the noun form of the word, enteuxis, meaning a petition to a king.. It can be used in the sense of the king summoning someone into his presence or of someone presenting a request to the king.