It is hard to face reality when reality has many faces.-Tony Follari. Check List of Homonymous Hemianopsia Symptoms. Below is a list of common symptoms that patients with a homonymous hemianopsia may experience. A homonymous hemianopsia can occur after a stroke, tumor or other acquired brain injury. Because the patient may fail to recognize the impact of their problems, we suggest that both the patient and spouse or caregiver review this list. The spouse or caregivers often notice problems that the patient fails to appreciate. 
Hemianopsia (Hemianopia). It is in the brain that the poppy is red, that the apple is odorous, that the skylark sings.. - Oscar Wilde. A homonymous hemianopsia is the loss of half of the field of view on the same side in both eyes. It is also referred to as a homonymous hemianopia. It occurs frequently in stroke and traumatic brain injuries due to the way part of the optic nerve fibers from each eye crossover as they pass to the back of the brain. 
If you suspect you may have hemianopsia, see your doctor. If hemianopsia occurs quickly or suddenly, see your doctor immediately. Symptoms may include: 1  sensation that something is wrong with your vision. 2  bumping into objects while walking, especially doorframes and people. 3  difficulty driving, especially when changing lanes or avoiding objects on the side of the road. Common causes are stroke, brain tumor, and trauma to the brain. Normally, the left half of the brain receives vision from the right eye, and vice versa. Information from the optic nerves crosses to the other half of the brain using an X-shaped structure called the optic chiasm.
Hemianopsia or hemianopia is visual field loss on the left or right side of the vertical midline. It can affect one eye but usually affects both eyes. Homonymous hemianopsia can be congenital, but is usually caused by brain injury such as from stroke, trauma, tumors, infection, or following surgery. Vascular and neoplastic (malignant or benign tumours) lesions from the optic tract, to visual cortex can cause a contralateral homonymous hemianopsia
Hemianopsia is a loss of vision in half of the visual field of one eye or both eyes. Common causes are stroke, brain tumor, and trauma to the brain. Normally, the left half of the brain receives vision from the right eye, and vice versa. Information from the optic nerves crosses to the other half of the brain using an X-shaped structure called the optic chiasm.
Hemianopsia, or hemianopia, is a decreased vision or blindness (anopsia) in half the visual field, usually on one side of the vertical midline. The most common causes of this damage are stroke, brain tumor, and trauma. 
Homonymous hemianopsia occurs because the right half of the brain has visual pathways for the left hemifield of both eyes, and the left half of the brain has visual pathways for the right hemifield of both eyes. When one of these pathways is damaged, the corresponding visual field is lost. Homonymous hemianopsia can be congenital, but is usually caused by brain injury such as from stroke, trauma, tumors, infection, or following surgery. Vascular and neoplastic (malignant or benign tumours) lesions from the optic tract, to visual cortex can cause a contralateral homonymous hemianopsia