Non melanoma skin cancer is different from melanoma. Melanoma is the type of skin cancer that most often develops from a mole. If you are looking for information on melanoma, go to the separate section on melanoma skin cancer. There are 2 main types of n
This medical symptom information shows the various types of Skin ulcer, and other related symptoms or conditions, including their causes and diagnosis. 1  Pressure sore. 2  Decubitus ulcers. 3  Weals.
There are two different types of skin ulcers. First one is the common type that affects the skin layer of feet and legs. Next one is the pressure ulcer that occurs when excess of fluid pressure is felt on the skin.
Skin ulcers are painful, open sores or wounds that keep returning or don't heal properly. Skin ulcers can be caused by various events, but are mainly triggered by poor circulation. Skin ulcers are often accompanied by the sloughing-off of inflamed tissue. A skin ulcer is generally defined by its appearance, location and the look of the surrounding skin.
All types of skin ulcers generally benefit from topical wound care therapies, compression garments or bandages and the use of antibiotics if an infection is present. The most effective treatment for venous skin ulcers is the frequent elevation of the legs above the level of the heart.
Skin ulcer Causes. There are many different types of ulcers of the skin. The two most common types include venous skin ulcers which normally affect the feet and the legs and are caused by a reduction of blood flow and therefore swell.
A skin ulcer is a type of wound that develops on the skin. A venous skin ulcer is a shallow wound that occurs when the leg veins don't return blood back toward the heart the way they should. This is called venous insufficiency. See a picture of abnormal blood flow caused by
There are two other types of skin ulcers that can happen on the lower leg or feet. They are different from venous skin ulcers. 1  Arterial skin ulcers are less common than venous skin ulcers. 2  They happen when artery disease is present (sometimes in combination with venous disease).