A debris avalanche is formed when an unstable slope collapses and debris is transported away from the slope. Large scale avalanches normally occur on very steep volcanoes. There are two general types of debris avalanches: those that are cold and those that are hot. A cold debris avalanche usually results from a slope becoming unstable whereas a hot debris avalanche is the result of volcanic activity such as volcanic earthquakes or the injection of magma which causes slope instability. The reason for this is due to energy stored in material within the avalanche. Some large avalanches have been known to carry blocks as large as three kilometers in length, several kilometers from their source. Such avalanches can travel close to 300 km/hr (Francis, 1993)! Landslide is a general term for mass movement.
Although primarily composed of flowing snow and air, large avalanches have the capability to entrain ice, rocks, trees, and other material on the slope, and are distinct from mudslides, rock slides, and serac collapses on an icefall. The largest avalanches form turbulent suspension currents known as powder snow avalanches or mixed avalanches. These consist of a powder cloud, which overlies a dense avalanche. They can form from any type of snow or initiation mechanism, but usually occur with fresh dry powder.
Avalanches are rapid movements of large masses of snow down a slope that commonly occur in mountainous regions. Despite what you may have seen in movies and on television, shouting cannot trigger an avalanche, according to the Utah Avalanche Centre. If the avalanche moves fast enough some of the snow may mix with the air forming a powder snow avalanche, which is a type of gravity current. Slides of rocks or debris, behaving in a similar way to snow, are also referred to as avalanches (see rockslide).
Loose snow avalanches are common in steep terrains. They usually occur in snow that has just fallen. Also, they can happen in old surface snow that was moistened by heavy solar radiation. Loose snow avalanches usually start at the point of the slope and widens as it travels downhill, using more snow. 
Avalanches are typically triggered in a starting zone from a mechanical failure in the snowpack (slab avalanche) when the forces on the snow exceed its strength but sometimes only with gradually widening (loose snow avalanche). The largest avalanches form turbulent suspension currents known as powder snow avalanches or mixed avalanches. These consist of a powder cloud, which overlies a dense avalanche. They can form from any type of snow or initiation mechanism, but usually occur with fresh dry powder.
A landslide, also known as a landslip, is a geological phenomenon that includes a wide range of ground movements. Rockfalls, deep failure of slopes and shallow debris flows were common. Landslides can occur in offshore, coastal and onshore environments. Although the action of gravity is the primary driving force for a landslide to occur, there are other contributing factors affecting the original slope stability. 
An avalanche is a rapid flow of snow down a hill or mountainside. Although avalanches can occur on any slope given the right conditions, certain times of the year and certain locations are naturally more dangerous than others. Wintertime, particularly from December to April, is when most avalanches tend to happen. This is an avalanche on a miniature scale. Of course, mountain avalanches are much larger and the conditions that cause them are more complex. A large avalanche in North America might release 230,000 cubic meters (300,000 cubic yards) of snow.
Volcanic structural collapse in the form of avalanches, rock fall, or landslides can be almost any size ranging from a few loose rocks falling from the crater rim of a volcano to large avalanches such as the one at Socompa Volcano in Chile that covers 500 square kilometers (Francis, 1993). The reason for this is due to energy stored in material within the avalanche. Some large avalanches have been known to carry blocks as large as three kilometers in length, several kilometers from their source. Such avalanches can travel close to 300 km/hr (Francis, 1993)! Landslide is a general term for mass movement.
If the avalanche moves fast enough some of the snow may mix with the air forming a powder snow avalanche, which is a type of gravity current. Slides of rocks or debris, behaving in a similar way to snow, are also referred to as avalanches (see rockslide). The largest avalanches form turbulent suspension currents known as powder snow avalanches or mixed avalanches. These consist of a powder cloud, which overlies a dense avalanche. They can form from any type of snow or initiation mechanism, but usually occur with fresh dry powder.
Victims caught in these events seldom escape. Avalanches are most common during and in the 24 hours right after a storm that dumps 12 inches (30 centimeters) or more of fresh snow. The quick pileup overloads the underlying snowpack, which causes a weak layer beneath the slab to fracture. Disastrous avalanches occur when massive slabs of snow break loose from a mountainside and shatter like broken glass as they race downhill. These moving masses can reach speeds of 80 miles (130 kilometers) per hour within about five seconds.