10 Common Digestive Disorders. Epigastric pain is not a serious symptom on its own. However, if it occurs with other life-threatening symptoms, it may be a sign of a condition that should receive immediate medical treatment, such as a heart attack.
Epigastric pain may accompany other symptoms, which vary depending on the underlying disease, disorder or condition. Frequently, symptoms that affect the digestive tract may also involve other body systems.
Gastritis is the condition in which pain occurs in the epigastric region. It is an inflammatory condition of lining of the stomach. Not only pain occurs but nausea and weight loss also occur here.
It may be associated with the gastric contents moving upward into the back of the throat, causing inflammation and a burning pain. Epigastric pain may also occur with conditions that cause inflammation of the digestive organs, such as gastritis and pancreatitis. Pregnant women may experience epigastric pain due to increased abdominal pressure and hormonal changes that slow the digestive process.
Epigastric Pain Symptoms. In addition to the pain associated with epigastric pain there may also be other symptoms that accompany this pain. What the other symptoms might be depends on what is causing the pain. Usually the symptoms that are affecting your digestive tract may also involve other systems of your body.
Conditions listing medical symptoms: Epigastric pain: The following list of conditions have ' Epigastric pain ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
Epigastric pain-Location, Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment. The epigastrium is one of the quadrants of the abdomen. It is the region lying between the subcostal plane and the costal margins. To understand this, it is the region that is located in the middle of the upper part
Epigastric pain is pain that is localized to the region of the upper abdomen immediately below the ribs. Often, those who experience this type of pain feel it during or right after eating or if they lie down too soon after eating. It is a common symptom of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or heartburn.