A biome is a geographical area that is very large in size. Each of these geographical areas has certain groups of animals and plants that are present within it. They are able to thrive there due to their ability to adapt in that particular type of environment. The changes in a region such as the climate and the geographic layout affect which biomes are found where in the world.
To understand a world biome, you need to know: What the climate of the region is like. Where each biome is found and and what its geography is like. The special adaptations of the vegetation. The types of animals found in the biome and their physical and behavioral adaptations to their environment. To understand a world biome, you need to know: 1  What the climate of the region is like. 2 
A biome is a very large area within a region in which the soil types, plants (vegetation), and animals are all very similar. Climate and vegetation vary with distance from the equator (latitude) and by altitude (elevation).
Freshwater biomes are very important to life on Earth. They are home to many different species and provide a lot of resources. In this lesson, we will go over what a freshwater biome is, where they are located, and the different plants and animals that inhabit them.
Throughout the world, we find 12 distinct biomes. North America is divided into 8. different biomes based on the dominant type of vegetation found in a given. geographic area (Figure 2). The type of vegetation influences the types of. animals found in each biome.
The geographic layout of a particular area is going to affect the biomes that are found there. The vegetation is important to explore. What is fascinating is discovering the types of adaptations that a living plant or animal goes though in order to continue thriving in a given biome.
ANIMALS: There are many different types of animals that live in the savanna. The species found in savannas vary by the geographic location of the biome. Animals native to African savannas include African elephants, zebras, horses, and giraffes.
Some of the popular terrestrial biomes include the tundra biome, the forest biome, the grassland biome, and the desert biome. Tundra biomes are extremely cold and have very harsh conditions. They include areas of Russian and the Arctic. Only a few types of plants and animals are able to survive here.