How antlers grow. Deer grow and shed antlers annually. Males typically begin growing a new set of antlers in late spring. Growth starts at the pedicle, which is the antler growing base attached to the skull (see Figure 2). Antler growth of male fawns, or “button bucks,” is generally noticeable at 4 to 5 months of age by the presence of “buttons.” At 1-1/2 years of age (yearlings), males grow their first noticeable antlers, which can range in size from spikes to 10 or more antler points.
Antlers usually begin to grow in the spring of deer's second year, but moose, roe, white-tailed and mule deer fawns may produce tiny antlers during their first autumn, … whilst reindeer calves start to grow antlers within weeks of being born (Putman, 1988). + 16 others found this useful. Scott Moon. Deer antlers begin growth in early spring. They take on a soft,  velvety appearance (and are actually soft and springy to the touch)  because the bone developing underneath … is doing just that, and the  velvet provides the necessary protection to ensure the deer grows a  healthy set of antlers.
Unlike horns on cattle which are permanent, male deer lose and re-grow their antlers every year. In the whitetail deer family only bucks over 1 year old have antlers. During winter bucks lose their antlers and then begin to re-grow new antlers. As the antlers grow they are covered in a soft hairy skin called velvet. The velvet supplies blood to the growing antlers and protects and feeds them. Antler growth in a deer is largely dependent on the age of the deer, genetics, and diet. As a deer matures it will typically grow more tines and eventually max out and then become smaller year after year as the deer ages. In a whitetail buck the antlers typically reach optimal development around 5 to 6 years of age.
After about a year, Whitetail bucks grow their antlers. (after the Yearling stage) first they grow little button looking antlers right on top of the hair. Then it becomes a Spike (a small buck with from anywhere from1in until they grow extra tines off of the main beams). Deer antlers begin growth in early spring. They take on a soft,  velvety appearance (and are actually soft and springy to the touch)  because the bone developing underneath … is doing just that, and the  velvet provides the necessary protection to ensure the deer grows a  healthy set of antlers.
Deer that grow antlers with no forks or points are called spike bucks. From the time the new antlers be gin growing from the pedicels until they reach their full size, they are covered with a soft skin called velvet.. Tiny blood vessels in the velvet bring food and minerals to the growing antlers. 
Deer grow their first set of antlers when they are approximately one year of age. The skin or tissue that develops at the top of the pedicel reacts to hormones in the deer body and actually causes an antler to grow/develop. They will be bigger, but on average the increase in antler size will be fairly small. In free ranging deer herds, it is very difficult to manage for deer 4-1/2 and older. A buck does not reach his maximum antler potential until he is 4-1/2 to 7-1/2 years of age. After that his antler size will begin to decline.
The mounting points on the heads of deer from which the antlers grow are called pedicles. The antlers break off (are shed) from these pedicles. Pedicles appear on a young deer's forehead during his first year. The next year, he will develop small shafts, and by year three the first branch will appear. 
Antlers usually begin to grow in the spring of deer's second year, but moose, roe, white-tailed and mule deer fawns may produce tiny antlers during their first autumn, … whilst reindeer calves start to grow antlers within weeks of being born (Putman, 1988). + 16 others found this useful. Scott Moon. Answer by Bobleblob. Confidence votes 1. white-tailed Deer usually start growing their antlers in late spring to early summer. The velvet (the furry coating on the antler that makes the antler grow) is shed in early august and the antler is shed after the rut (deer mating season) in November.