1. You must decide which type of joint ownership you want if you buy, inherit or become a trustee of a property with someone else. You tell the Land Registry about this when you register the property. You can own a property as either ‘joint tenants’ or ‘tenants in common’. The type of ownership affects what you can do with the property if your relationship with a joint owner breaks down, or if one owner dies. You can get legal advice from someone who specialises in property. 
Tenants in common hold title on a property together. How you take title to a home is as significant as how you finance the property. Multiple people can take title as joint tenants, tenants in common or community property. There do not need to be equal percentages of ownership in a tenancy in common. One tenant might own 60 percent of the property and the other only 40 percent, reflecting the initial investments that each made.
Another difference between tenants in common and joint tenants or tenants by the entirety is that tenants in common may hold unequal interests. By contrast, joint tenants and tenants by the entirety own equal shares of the property. In the context of concurrent estates, however, a tenant is a co-owner of real property. All tenants in common hold an individual, undivided ownership interest in the property. This means that each party has the right to alienate, or transfer the ownership of, her ownership interest. This can be done by deed, will, or other conveyance
A form of concurrent ownership of real property in which two or more persons possess the property simultaneously; it can be created by deed, will, or operation of law. Tenancy in Common is a specific type of concurrent, or simultaneous, ownership of real property by two or more parties. Generally, concurrent ownership can take three forms: joint tenancy, tenancy by the entirety, and tenancy in common. In the context of concurrent estates, however, a tenant is a co-owner of real property. All tenants in common hold an individual, undivided ownership interest in the property. This means that each party has the right to alienate, or transfer the ownership of, her ownership interest. This can be done by deed, will, or other conveyance
Owning property as Tenants in Common means two or more people (or businesses) own an undivided interest in a piece of property. Each property owner has the right to use the property without being able to exclude the other owner or owners from using it unless a separate written agreement states otherwise. There is no limit to the number of owners who can hold an interest in the property. Tenants in Common v. Joint Tenants with Right of Survivorship. The biggest difference between a Tenancy in Common and Joint Tenancy is in the way the property is transferred when an owner dies.
DEFINITION of 'Tenants In Common-TIC'. The co-owners of an undivided interest in real property. Tenants in common each own a separate and undivided interest in the same real property and each has an equal right to the possession and use of the property. BREAKING DOWN 'Tenants In Common-TIC'. For example, if six people hold title to the property, each would own an undivided one-sixth interest. Each tenant in common holds his or her undivided interest in severalty, and can sell, convey, mortgage or transfer that interest through the right of partition. Tenancy in common is one type of concurrent ownership where title to one parcel of real property is held by two or more parties
Holding property as tenants in common is another way that two or more people can own real estate together. Unlike joint tenants, tenants in common can hold property in unequal shares. And each of you can leave your interest to beneficiaries of your choosing--it won't automatically go to the surviving co-owners. 
Posted: When you take title to a property you must provide your full names and dates of birth as well as the manner in which you wish to take title to the property. You may take title in two ways: as joint tenants or as tenants in common. If the property is held as tenants in common, upon the death of a registered owner, that owner's share in the property reverts to the deceased owner's estate, which will share ownership with the remaining registered owner as a tenant