1 Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 2  Children 5 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone must use our unaccompanied minor service and pay the applicable service charge.
Special restrictions. 1  Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors.
1 United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 2  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 3  Children 5 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone must use our unaccompanied minor service and pay the applicable service charge.
1 Enrollment in the Delta Air Lines Unaccompanied Minor program is mandatory for children 5 to 14. 2  If you prefer that your 15 to 17 year old travel without supervision, please advise the agent at the time of the reservation and it will be noted.
Note: The mandatory UMNR age on Delta is 05-14 years. Children aged 12-14 travelling alone must be registered as UMNR's & the relevant fee paid. Voluntary UMNR service is available for ages 15-17 years. UMNR service will not be available for children over 17.
Delta Airlines Delta charges $100 each way for unaccompanied minor service, but otherwise has largely the same policies as American; that is, UM service is required for ages 5-14 and optional for older children, and no change of planes is permitted for children ages 5-7.
Children 5 to 11 years of age who are not accompanied on an aircraft by a parent, legal guardian or someone who is at least 18 years of age are considered unaccompanied minors and are subject to specific restrictions.
1 Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors.
Unaccompanied Minor Program. The Unaccompanied Minor Program is required for all children 5-14 years old when not traveling in the same compartment with an adult who is at least 18 years old or the child's parent/legal guardian. The program is optional for children 15-17 years old.