The sit-up is an abdominal strength training exercise commonly performed to strengthen the abdominal muscles. It is similar to a crunch (crunches target the rectus abdominus and also work the external and internal obliques), but sit-ups have a fuller range of motion and condition additional muscles. Strength exercises such as sit-ups and push-ups do not cause the spot reduction of fat. Gaining a  six pack  requires both abdominal muscle hypertrophy training and fat loss over the abdomen—which can only be done by losing fat from the body as a whole.
Performing push-ups works a variety of muscles in your upper body, including specific muscles within your abdomen, chest, shoulders and upper arms. You can vary your technique by placing your hands at different widths to emphasize one area over another. 
Push-ups are one of the most basic exercises that are beneficial to build a strong core and upper body using only your body and a flat surface. Push-ups are basic strength-building total body exercises that strengthen the upper body and improve the core strength. Coracobrachialis. The coracobrachialis runs from the shoulder blade to the upper arms. During a push-up, the coracobrachialis pushes the upper arm against the body, which is essential to perform a push-up. A well-developed coracobrachialis muscle is necessary for building upper body strength.
NHL Push & Pull Strength Tests. This is an upper body push and pull strength test, determined using the Strength Meter dynamometer. This test was once part of the NHL pre-draft testing combine (it has been replaced). 1  purpose: this test measures upper body pushing and pulling strength. 2  equipment required: Strength Meter Dynamometer.
Pectoralis Major. These are the two large chest muscles primarily the pushing muscles of the upper body. It makes up most of the upper body. As you raise and lower your body during a push-up, the pectoralis major is doing most of the work to raise and lower your body. Deltoids. Coracobrachialis. The coracobrachialis runs from the shoulder blade to the upper arms. During a push-up, the coracobrachialis pushes the upper arm against the body, which is essential to perform a push-up. A well-developed coracobrachialis muscle is necessary for building upper body strength.
When you start pulling your body up off the ground, from either a standing or modified position, you recruit your back, biceps and forearm muscles. These are muscles that don’t get used when doing a push-up or any type of pushing motion. Pull-ups and push-ups target every major muscle group of your upper body. These two exercises or movements target different groups of muscles. One set of muscles is for pulling things towards your body. A completely different set of muscles is used to push things away from your body. Push-ups or any type of pushing motion (bench press) activates your chest, shoulders and tricep muscles.
The push up test measures muscular endurance of the upper body. The push up test is performed for a duration of 60 seconds, or until failure without any break in proper form. Begin in a push up position with the body forming a straight line from head to ankles. Have a partner place their closed fist on the floor underneath the chest of the person performing the push ups
1 Alternative fitness tests to measure upper body strength are the pull up or chin up and flexed arm hang. 2  target population: the push up test is commonly used as a general test of strength. 3  There are some sports in which upper body strength is particularly important. Push Up Test. The push-up fitness test (also called the press up test) measures upper body strength and endurance. There are many variations of the push up test, such as different placement of the hands, how far to dip, the duration of the test and the method of counting the number of completed push ups.