An exception to use of part one of Fix the Shoulder Blades Exercise is a condition called Depressed or Droopy Shoulders Syndrome that is often present in women with low set, steeply sloping shoulders and long necks. Their collar bones (clavicles) slope down toward the shoulder joint rather than the usual slope up. 2. through two groups of muscles – the Rhomboids, and Middle and Lower Trapezius – which attach the shoulder blades to the thoracic spine; and. 3. through two muscles – the Upper Trapezius and Levator Scapula – that suspend the shoulder blades from cervical/neck vertebra.
A winged scapula condition may be accompanied by a protracted shoulder girdle. Risk of shoulder injury is compounded with a supraspinatus weakness or an external shoulder rotation inflexibility. Because of the forward tilt of the scapula, complete flexion of the shoulder may be seemingly restricted. Kyphosis is sometime accompanied with other posterior problems such as posterior pelvic tilt and protracted shoulder girdle. Kyphosis makes it difficult to include overhead exercises particularly when combined with a winged scapula condition or shoulder external
The Bench Press for Fixing Rounded Shoulders. Excessive bench pressing can contribute to rounded shoulder. Photo Credit Pixland/Pixland/Getty Images. Rounded shoulder is a posture abnormality that occurs when your shoulder muscles gradually curve forward in a hunched-over position. Bench pressing, in addition to computer work and prolonged sitting, can contribute to your rounded shoulder condition. What to Do. Another way to help your rounded shoulder condition is to strengthen the posterior muscles of your shoulder and back. This is generally recommended in weightlifting to help you maintain muscle balance as you develop your chest and anterior muscles with bench pressing.
One of the more commonly observed postural faults is the protracted [ wide apart ] and downwardly rotated position of the scapula [ top of shoulder blade/scapula tilts down toward front of the body instead of vertical, neutral position on the back ]. 2. through two groups of muscles – the Rhomboids, and Middle and Lower Trapezius – which attach the shoulder blades to the thoracic spine; and. 3. through two muscles – the Upper Trapezius and Levator Scapula – that suspend the shoulder blades from cervical/neck vertebra.
Round shoulders is a commonly used and much misunderstood expression. It is usually used to describe a situation where the shoulder girdle is protracted (further forward) than normal often accompanied by a thoracic kyphosis (upper back bent forward). Problems caused by round shoulders. As the shoulder joint and shoulder girdle function less efficiently in this position it can eventually lead to shoulder and neck problems. This can include rotator cuff, supraspinatus impingement as well as upper back and neck pain.
**Introduction to Protracted Shoulders. Shoulder protraction can be a nasty imbalance. It is commonly caused by overactive pushing muscles and underactive antagonists to those muscles. The king of shoulder protraction is the bench press and it affects the stability of the rotator cuff muscles. Bench presses, involve the trainee to lie down on the bench and press resistance off his chest.
If you have a protracted shoulder girdle, your shoulders will be rounded forward, your upper/mid back might be hunched/rounded, and your arms will be internally rotated (palms facing back). There are tight muscles and weak muscles that contribute to all of this. The good news is there are several stretches and exercises that will help tremendously! The tight muscles are the two biggest muscles of the chest: pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, the fronts of the shoulder (anterior deltoid), the serratus anterior, and the latissimus dorsi as well.
Look around you at the gym, or in any public place and you will see a common trait shared by the vast majority: forward-slumped shoulders with a closed-off chest cavity. This posture is so prevalent that people don’t even recognize it when they see it… it just looks like normal posture to them. The issue is, of course, that it’s not a healthy position to be in for a number of reasons that I am going to outline for you today. Before I get into the reasons why I feel that this postural abnormality needs to be addressed, let me explain what exactly is going on when someone has a protracted shoulder girdle.
Coach Duffy Exposes the Protracted Shoulder Girdle. The protracted shoulder is a very common postural imbalance that is seen in a high percentage of the general population. The good news is there are several stretches and exercises that will help tremendously! The tight muscles are the two biggest muscles of the chest: pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, the fronts of the shoulder (anterior deltoid), the serratus anterior, and the latissimus dorsi as well.
First off, lets again analyze the posture and its cause. Protracted shoulders comes from overactive pushing muscles and underdeveloped pulling muscles; it is a condition of the internal rotators overpowering the external rotators. Last week we discussed the importance of horizontal and vertical pulling in relation to horizontal and vertical pressing. Protracted shoulders can be a nasty condition; what makes it even worse is 70% of the people that have it aren't even aware that they have it nor of the condition itself!