Bacterial DNA – a circular chromosome plus plasmids. The DNA of most bacteria is contained in a single circular molecule, called the bacterial chromosome. The chromosome, along with several proteins and RNA molecules, forms an irregularly shaped structure called the nucleoid. This sits in the cytoplasm of the bacterial cell. In addition to the chromosome, bacteria often contain plasmids – small circular DNA molecules.
Genetic information in bacteria is stored in the sequence of DNA in two forms, that is bacterial chromosome and plasmid. The following are the properties of a bacterial chromosome. 1  Location: Within nucleoid region, not surrounded by nuclear envelope. 2  Number: 1 chromosome each cell. 
Kinetoplastida (or Kinetoplastea, as a class) is a group of flagellated protists belonging to the phylum Euglenozoa, and characterised by the presence of an organelle called kinetoplast (hence the name). The organisms are commonly referred to as kinetoplastids or kinetoplasts. The group includes a number of parasites responsible for serious diseases in humans and other animals, as well as various forms found in soil and aquatic environments.
In trypanosomes, a group of flagellated protozoans, the kinetoplast exists as a dense granule of DNA within the large mitochondrion. Trypanosoma brucei, the parasite which causes African trypanosomiasis (African sleeping sickness), is an example of a trypanosome with a kinetoplast. A kinetoplast is usually adjacent to the organism's flagellar basal body, suggesting that it is tightly bound to the cytoskeleton. In Trypanosoma brucei this cytoskeletal connection is called the tripartite attachment complex and includes the protein p166.
A kinetoplast is a network of circular DNA (called kDNA) inside a large mitochondrion that contains many copies of the mitochondrial genome. The most common kinetoplast structure is a disk, but they have been observed in other arrangements. A kinetoplast is usually adjacent to the organism's flagellar basal body, suggesting that it is tightly bound to the cytoskeleton. In Trypanosoma brucei this cytoskeletal connection is called the tripartite attachment complex and includes the protein p166.
Kinetoplast DNA (kDNA) is the most structurally complex mitochondrial DNA in nature. Unique to the single mitochondrion of unicellular flagellates of the order Kinetoplastida, kDNA is best known as a giant network of thousands of catenated circular DNAs (an electron micrograph of a network is shown in Fig. The best known kDNA structure is the network from C. fasciculata. This network contains 5,000 minicircles and about 25 maxicircles. The circles are catenated to form a planar network that has a topology resembling that of chain mail in medieval armor (Fig. 1B).
One family of kinetoplastids, the trypanosomatids, is notable as it includes several genera which are exclusively parasitic. Bodo is a typical genus within kinetoplastida and including various common free-living species which feed on bacteria. The organisms are commonly referred to as kinetoplastids or kinetoplasts. The group includes a number of parasites responsible for serious diseases in humans and other animals, as well as various forms found in soil and aquatic environments.
Bacterial Morphology Bacterial Structure :: Cytoplasmic Structures :: Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria have similar internal, but very different external structures. The cytoplasm of the bacterial cell contains the DNA chromosome, the mRNA, ribosomes, proteins, and metabolites). 
Kinetoplasts are only found in protozoa of the class Kinetoplastida. The variation in the structures of kinetoplasts may reflect phylogenic relationships between kinetoplastids. A kinetoplast is usually adjacent to the organism's flagellar basal body, suggesting that it is tightly bound to the cytoskeleton. In Trypanosoma brucei this cytoskeletal connection is called the tripartite attachment complex and includes the protein p166.