The only way to know if you have radon in your home is to test for it. In 2005, the Office of the Surgeon General advised that radon presents a significant health risk to families. A short-term test of two to seven days will indicate the radon level in your home. 
To perform radon related services (measurement or mitigation) in the state of Illinois, you MUST be licensed by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Radon Program (IEMA). Becoming licensed by IEMA is a 3 step process: 1  The Course. Do-It-Yourself radon test kits are low cost and easy to perform. Short-term test kits lasting 3-7 days or long term test kits lasting 1-12 months can be obtained from the American Lung Association of the Upper Midwest by clicking on this link or by calling 1-800-788-5864.
Cost of Radon Testing Kits. You can buy radon testing kits from laboratories, hardware stores or other retail stores that sell items related to home maintenance. Their cost varies, ranging from about $7 to $30, depending on the type of radon detector. Radon detectors fall into one of two general categories: short-term or long-term. Short-term devices measure radon levels for two to seven days, while the long-term devices take measurements for at least three months.
​​​. The Illinois Emergency Management Agency Radon program staff informs Illinois citizens about the risks associated with radon and how to reduce radon levels in their homes. The Agency also licenses and regulates the individuals who provide radon measurement and mitigation to the public. This section contains details about radon, county-specific radon information, lists of measurement and mitigation licensees, information for radon license applicants and license holders, and various radon publications.
Reducing Radon Levels in a Home. Mitigation is the act of repairing or altering a building or building design for the purpose of reducing the concentration of radon in the indoor atmosphere. A professional licensed by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency’s Radon Program can mitigate your radon levels. The average cost of a mitigation system is between $800 to $1200. The most common type of mitigation systems is Active Soil Depressurization
Get a Low-Cost Radon Test Kit. Short-term and Long-term test kits are available for purchase through the American Lung Association of the Upper Midwest. Short-Term Test Kits. A short-term test is performed for at least two days, but no more than 90 days. A typical short-term test, including those offered through this site, last 2-7 days. A short-term test will produce results that represent a snapshot of the radon levels during a specific time period.
Radon is a Radioactive Gas. Radon is a radioactive element that is part of the radioactive decay chain of naturally occurring uranium in soil. You can’t see radon. You can’t smell radon and you can’t taste radon.
Testing. It is not expensive to test for radon gas. There are home kits and sensors that you can install in the house. You will save money on a home kit, but the most effective way to perform the test is to have a professional company come into your home and do the testing. It is not expensive to test for radon gas. There are home kits and sensors that you can install in the house
Test your home! Babb Service Company has been providing quality radon reduction services and radon testing services to Illinois for over 30 years. We are licensed with the State of Illinois to provide radon testing and mitigation services. If you need radon services, call Babb Service Company at 309-829-9455, If you would like to know what it would cost to lower the radon levels in your home, Or the cost of a test. Fill out this form and we will follow up with a quote.