MAGNETOSPHERE. The magnetosphere is the region that surrounds a planet and the magnetic field of that planet, in which charged particles are trapped and controlled by that planet’s magnetic field, rather than the solar magnetic field. Plasmasphere: a region inside the magnetosphere which captures plasma that flows from the ionosphere, so that there is a plasma build-up. Pole: an extremity of an axis through a sphere; in a magnet, one of two places where it is most intense; the two poles have opposite charges (+/-).
More specifically, the Earth’s magnetosphere is the region of space where the Earth’s magnetic field is confined by the solar wind plasma, blowing outward from the Sun. The magnetosphere prevents most of the particles from the Sun, carried by solar wind, from hitting the Earth. Plasmasphere: a region inside the magnetosphere which captures plasma that flows from the ionosphere, so that there is a plasma build-up. Pole: an extremity of an axis through a sphere; in a magnet, one of two places where it is most intense; the two poles have opposite charges (+/-).
A magnetosphere is classified as induced when, or when the solar wind is not opposed by the object's magnetic field. In this case, the solar wind interacts with the atmosphere or ionosphere of the planet (or surface of the planet, if the planet has no atmosphere). Study of Earth's magnetosphere began in 1600, when William Gilbert discovered that the magnetic field on the surface of Earth resembled that on a terrella, a small, magnetized sphere.
Magnetosphere   The area around the Earth that extends beyond the atmosphere is  called the Magnetosphere. The Magnetosphere begins  at approximately 1000 km and extends … thousands of  kilometers into space. the sun and the Earth's magnetic field  create this layer.
A magnetosphere is classified as intrinsic when, or when the primary opposition to the flow of solar wind is the magnetic field of the object. Mercury, Earth, Jupiter, Ganymede, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune exhibit intrinsic magnetospheres. Study of Earth's magnetosphere began in 1600, when William Gilbert discovered that the magnetic field on the surface of Earth resembled that on a terrella, a small, magnetized sphere.
The shape of the Earth's magnetosphere is the direct result of being blasted by solar wind. It prevents most of the particles from the Sun, carried in the solar wind, from hitting the Earth. The Sun and other planets have magnetospheres, but the Earth has the strongest one of all the rocky planets. 
Because the Earth is made of magnetic elements such as Iron, Nickel, and Cobalt, the Earth acts as an extremely large magnet, which attracts these charged particles, among other things. Plasmasphere: a region inside the magnetosphere which captures plasma that flows from the ionosphere, so that there is a plasma build-up. Pole: an extremity of an axis through a sphere; in a magnet, one of two places where it is most intense; the two poles have opposite charges (+/-).
The Earth's Magnetic Field. The Earth has a magnetic field with north and south poles. The Earth's magnetic field reaches 36,000 miles into space. The magnetic field of the Earth is surrounded in a region called the magnetosphere. The magnetosphere prevents most of the particles from the sun, carried in solar wind, from hitting the Earth. Some particles from the solar wind can enters the magnetosphere. 
Magnetosphere   The area around the Earth that extends beyond the atmosphere is  called the Magnetosphere. The Magnetosphere begins  at approximately 1000 km and extends … thousands of  kilometers into space. the sun and the Earth's magnetic field  create this layer. 
A rendering of the magnetic field lines of Earth's magnetosphere. A magnetosphere is the region of space surrounding an astronomical object in which charged particles are controlled by that object's magnetic field. Near the surface of many astronomical objects, the magnetic field resembles that of a dipole. Study of Earth's magnetosphere began in 1600, when William Gilbert discovered that the magnetic field on the surface of Earth resembled that on a terrella, a small, magnetized sphere.