(1) (Maestro NT) An earlier name for scheduling software for Windows NT from Tivoli Systems, Inc. When IBM acquired Tivoli in 1996, the program was renamed IBM Tivoli Workload Scheduler. (2) (Budget Maestro) Business planning and analysis software for Windows from Centage Corporation, Natick, MA (www.centage.com). (3) (NFS Maestro Gateway) Software from Hummingbird Connectivity, a division of Open Text Corporation, Toronto, Ontario (www.hummingbird.com) that lets Windows clients access files on Unix servers via NFS.
maestro. n, pl-tri (-trɪ) or-tros. 1. (Classical Music) a distinguished music teacher, conductor, or musician. 2. any man regarded as the master of an art: often used as a term of address. 3. (Classical Music) See maestro di cappella. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. A conductor for an orchestra is a maestro. A conductor for an orchestra is a maestro. The definition of a maestro is a master in an art. An example of a maestro is the leader of an orchestra. (1) (Maestro NT) An earlier name for scheduling software for Windows NT from Tivoli Systems, Inc. When IBM acquired Tivoli in 1996, the program was renamed IBM Tivoli Workload Scheduler.
Sierra Maestra is a mountain range that runs westward across the south of the old Oriente Province from what is now Guantanamo Guantánamo province To niquero in Southeast, cuba rising abruptly from the. coast The Sierra Maestra is the highest system of Cuba. It is rich in minerals, especially copper, manganese, chromium, and iron. At 1,974 m (6,476 ft), Pico Turquino is the range's highest point.
Full Definition of MAESTRO. : a master usually in an art; especially: an eminent composer, conductor, or teacher of music. See maestro defined for English-language learners. See maestro defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
maestro. n, pl-tri (-trɪ) or-tros. 1. (Classical Music) a distinguished music teacher, conductor, or musician. 2. any man regarded as the master of an art: often used as a term of address. 3. (Classical Music) See maestro di cappella. maestro. (mīs′trō). n. pl. maes·tros or maes·tri (-trē). A master in an art, especially a composer, conductor, or music teacher.
The following description was taken from this source.MAESTRA is a three dimensional model of forest canopy radiation absorption, photosynthesis, and transpiration. Radiation penetration to each grid point is calculated for three wavebands (i.e. PAR, near infrared and thermal radiation), including consideration of direct, diffuse and scattered radiation. Photosynthesis and transpiration at each grid point are calculated from the absorb
2 (Arquit) guide line. → maestro. Translation Spanish-English Collins Dictionary &nbsp. See also: abeja maestra, canal maestra, llave maestra, obra maestra. To ensure the quality of comments, you need to be connected. It’s easy and only takes a few seconds Or Sign up/login to Reverso account. viga maestra exp. main beam. Entry related to: maestro. 
By Shelley Esaak. Definition: (noun) - An Italian word that translates to majesty, Maesta maestà is used in art to describe a particular type Of madonna painting found In-Proto renaissance And International gothic. Works'we ll see The Virgin, mary holding the Infant, christ but with certain. conditions 