A fatty acids is specifically a carboxylic acid (COOH) on the end of a long chain of carbons, which can be saturated (all carbon-carbon single bonds, which means the carbons are also bonded to hydrogen atoms), or unsaturated (some carbon-carbon bonds may be double). They can be thought of as a building block for lipids. Best Answer: Fatty acids are merely carboxylic acids with long hydrocarbon chains. The hydrocarbon chain length may vary from 10-30 carbons (most usual is 12-18). The non-polar hydrocarbon alkane chain is an important counter balance to the polar acid functional group
TAG's are found found in adipose tissue which is body fat and the main storage site for lipids. When you break down adipose tissue to use it for energy the TAG's get hydrolyzed to form three free fatty acids that can be oxidized for energy production. I said all that to show that a fatty acid is a lipid. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A fatty acid is a carbon chain in lipids A lipid is a large, nonpolar, organic molecule. Most lipids contain fatty acids. This is a big help on the Holt, Rinehart, and Winston Modern Biology Worksheet Biochemistry on question #17
Lipids and fats are used interchangibly, although fats are usually used to refer lipids that are solid at room temperature. Triglyceride is a type of lipid. Triglycerides are also called triacylglyceride. If triglycerides are hydrolised, they will yield three fatty acid molecules and a glycerol. 
Function. Triglycerides within your body serve two purposes. They act as a storage form of fat in your adipose tissue, and they provide the source of fatty acids needed throughout your cells. The types of fatty acids you consume from the triglycerides in your diet play a role in your health as well. The nature of their chemical structure impacts your risk of developing heart disease by affecting the amount of cholesterol circulating in your bloodstream.
Triglycerides found in fish consist of unsaturated fatty acids. Fatty acids make up the bulk of a triglyceride molecule, and, although fatty acids and triglycerides are closely related, they differ in structure, function and the manner in which your body processes them. The types of fatty acids you consume from the triglycerides in your diet play a role in your health as well. The nature of their chemical structure impacts your risk of developing heart disease by affecting the amount of cholesterol circulating in your bloodstream.
The difference between fatty acids and fat is that fatty acids are monomers and it is the soluble and digested form of fats while the fats are polymers n they are insoluble in … our body without it,s simple form, which is called fatty acid e.g glycerols(monomers) from oil(polymer). + 3 others found this useful. A fatty acid is a carbon chain in lipids A lipid is a large, nonpolar, organic molecule. Most lipids contain fatty acids. This is a big help on the Holt, Rinehart, and Winston … Modern Biology Worksheet Biochemistry on question #17. 7 people
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Fatty acids are merely carboxylic acids with long hydrocarbon chains. The hydrocarbon chain length may vary from 10-30 carbons (most usual is 12-18). The non-polar hydrocarbon alkane chain is an important counter balance to the polar acid functional group
The difference between fatty acids and fat is that fatty acids are monomers and it is the soluble and digested form of fats while the fats are polymers n they are insoluble in … our body without it,s simple form, which is called fatty acid e.g glycerols(monomers) from oil(polymer). + 3 others found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A fatty acid is a carbon chain in lipids A lipid is a large, nonpolar, organic molecule. Most lipids contain fatty acids. This is a big help on the Holt, Rinehart, and Winston Modern Biology Worksheet Biochemistry on question #17