TSH causes the thyroid gland to make two hormones: triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). T3 and T4 help control your body's metabolism. Triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) are needed for normal growth of the brain, especially during the first 3 years of life. A baby whose thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone (congenital hypothyroidism) may, in severe cases, be mentally retarded. 1 Find the cause of an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism). 2  TSH levels can help determine whether hypothyroidism is due to a damaged thyroid gland or some other cause (such as a problem with the pituitary gland or the hypothalamus).
Speaking roughly, normal levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) are in the range of 0.4 to 4.0 mIU/L. However, each laboratory and test manufacturer identifies its own normal TSH range. This is based on the test, the equipment being used, and the patients being tested. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists has proposed a range of 0.3 to 3.0 for normal TSH levels. Using these cutoff values would lead to more people being diagnosed with an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism).
1 The TSH narrows to 0.6 to 5.5 micro units per milliliter in school going children. 2  The normal TSH level gradually decreases in children; however, the free thyroid hormone (T4) levels in the blood will be relatively balanced for certain period. 1 The range of normal TSH levels for full term newborns is higher, as it can range from between 1.3 and 16 micro units per ML of blood. 2  The TSH range gradually reduces to 0.9 to 7.7 micro units per milliliter after 30 days. 3  The TSH narrows to 0.6 to 5.5 micro units per milliliter in school going children
1 An under active thyroid presents with a TSH ranging from 2mIU/L or more than that. 2  A TSH level count ranging between 0.5 and 3mIU/L confirms thyroid disorder. 3  The normal TSH range for newborns ranges from between 1 – 39 mIU/L. 4  The normal TSH levels for children ranges from between 0.7 – 6.4 mIU/L. 1 The range of normal TSH levels for full term newborns is higher, as it can range from between 1.3 and 16 micro units per ML of blood. 2  The TSH range gradually reduces to 0.9 to 7.7 micro units per milliliter after 30 days. 3  The TSH narrows to 0.6 to 5.5 micro units per milliliter in school going children
Normal Levels in children. 1  The range of normal TSH levels for full term newborns is higher, as it can range from between 1.3 and 16 micro units per ML of blood. 2  The TSH range gradually reduces to 0.9 to 7.7 micro units per milliliter after 30 days. 1 The range of normal TSH levels for full term newborns is higher, as it can range from between 1.3 and 16 micro units per ML of blood. 2  The TSH range gradually reduces to 0.9 to 7.7 micro units per milliliter after 30 days. 3  The TSH narrows to 0.6 to 5.5 micro units per milliliter in school going children
TSH level is an indicator of thyroid function in children. Photo Credit Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is released from the pituitary gland and stimulates the thyroid gland to release thyroid hormones T3 and T4. Measuring levels of TSH is one way to assay the function of a child's thyroid gland. Typically, levels of TSH are quite high immediately after birth, and fall to adult levels by school age. TSH levels in school-age children normally ranges from 0.6 to 5.5 microunits per milliliter of blood. Normal Levels. For full term newborns, the range of normal TSH levels is quite large. TSH can vary between 1.3 and 16 microunits per milliliter of blood. After about a month, this range narrows to 0.9 to 7.7 microunits per milliliter, and by school age it decreases to 0.6 to 5.5 microunits per milliliter.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone (also known as thyrotropin, TSH, or hTSH for human TSH) is a pituitary hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland to produce thyroxine (T 4), and then triiodothyronine (T 3) which stimulates the metabolism of almost every tissue in the body. 
The TSH level is above normal in a child who is overweight, but that’s not due to an underactive thyroid, and hormone replacement won’t help. When someone has a lot of body fat, they have a lot of leptin, which stimulates the body to make TSH. In hypothyroidism, the thyroid gland is underactive and fails to make enough thyroid hormone. Hypothyroidism is common in children and adolescents, and is very treatable. In newborns, a lack of thyroid hormone is serious and needs prompt treatment.