Moreover, How long does a butterfly live in adult aspect is almost 20 to 40 days. It depends on the species how much intensity does one butterfly has to live. At times, it lives for just 3-4 days, but at other extent it lives up to six months. 
There is also a difference between how long a butterfly would live if it was not living in the wild and how long it will actually live. Butterflies in the wild are exposed to many predators like birds and other insects, so may not live as long as they are capable of. Here is an article all about the Monarch Life Span: http://www.monarch-butterfly. com/life-span.html. Our articles are free for you to copy and distribute. Make sure to give www.learnaboutnature.com credit for the article.
Different butterfly species have different adult potential life spans. By marking butterflies then recapturing or sighting them later scientists gain information on how long butterflies can live. An average butterfly species has an adult life span of 2 weeks or less. For example one butterfly studied in Costa Rica had a life expectancy of about 2 days, and live 10 days at the most. No adult butterfly can live more than a year
Monarchs and Swallowtails may live about a month in the summer, but the Monarchs that migrate to Mexico or the California coast may live up to 6 months. Some long-lived tropical butterflies live up to 6 months as adults. The long-life champion is a tiny yucca moth that feeds on Banana Yucca (Yucca baccata). By marking butterflies then recapturing or sighting them later scientists gain information on how long butterflies can live. An average butterfly species has an adult life span of 2 weeks or less.
For example, if the butterfly is of the smaller version it will probably not live as long, but if it is a larger butterfly, it will live longer. Now of course the size of the butterfly is not going to be the only factor of how long a butterfly will live, but does attribute to it. Here is an article all about the Monarch Life Span: http://www.monarch-butterfly. com/life-span.html. Our articles are free for you to copy and distribute. Make sure to give www.learnaboutnature.com credit for the article.
There is an average life span of a butterfly-it is usually about one month. Although the smallest butterflies that you can usually spot feasting on the flowers in your front yard will usually only live about one week. Here is an article all about the Monarch Life Span: http://www.monarch-butterfly. com/life-span.html. Our articles are free for you to copy and distribute. Make sure to give www.learnaboutnature.com credit for the article.
Pet rabbits live an average life of 8-12 years. This is true of butterflies and all pet rabbits. The only difference breed makes is larger breeds tend to live slightly shorter … lives than smaller breeds. The better you take care of your rabbit, the better chance it will live a long, happy, and healthy life. In the USA, adult monarchs live 2-6 weeks if they are in the first 3 generations of butterflies in the year. The 4th generation can live up to eight months because they have t … o do a long migration. A few quick searches online should give you an overall pretty good feel of the life span of this beautiful creatur
How long butterflies live depends on many things and varies greatly. It depends on the size of the butterfly, the species of the butterfly, where it lives, and what time of year it became an adult. Here is an article all about the Monarch Life Span: http://www.monarch-butterfly. com/life-span.html. Our articles are free for you to copy and distribute. Make sure to give www.learnaboutnature.com credit for the article.
Q. How long do adult monarchs live? A. This depends on when they live (summer or winter). It also varies a lot among individuals (just like it does it humans). In the summer, adults live from 2 to 6 weeks in captivity, and probably about that long in the wild. The ones that migrate live longer, from August or September to about April (although a lot die before this).