WebMD Health News. May 26, 2004 -- A new study links a gene to alcohol addiction -- backing up a long-recognized pattern showing that alcoholism runs in families. The finding also provides evidence that an inborn high level of anxiety is part of this picture. The study appears in this week's issue of the Journal of Neuroscience. The gene is also involved in the process of alcohol tolerance, dependence, and withdrawal symptoms, writes Pandey. A section of the brain -- called the central amygdala -- is another piece of this puzzle. Both the CREB gene and the central amygdala have been linked with withdrawal and anxiety.
One frequently asked question about alcoholism is if it is hereditary. As with most other mental disorders, alcohol addiction has no one single cause and is not directly passed from one generation to another in families. Rather, it is the result of a complex group of genetic, psychological, and environmental factors. 
Some people may also have a form of genetic protection against alcoholism. Scientists from the Indiana University School of Medicine found evidence that people with a two specific gene variants were less likely to become alcoholics, even when they drink heavily on a regular basis. Beta-endorphin and Alcoholism. “Another gene variant that might affect alcoholism is the gene that controls a protein called beta-endorphin.” Another gene variant that might affect alcoholism is the gene that controls a protein called beta-endorphin. This protein is produced in the brain to numb pain
While scientists have known for some time that genetics play a role in alcoholism and other addictions, they also understand the tendency to be dependent on alcohol is more complicated than the simple presence or absence of any one gene. Considering that alcoholism seems to run in families and so appears to be a gene-based disease, there are questions concerning the fact that binge drinking — consuming five or more drinks in a row for a man, or four drinks for a woman — leads to the faster development of alcoholism.
“There is a known hereditary component to alcoholism…” The question of whether alcoholism is inherited or not is a complex one. Beta-endorphin and Alcoholism. “Another gene variant that might affect alcoholism is the gene that controls a protein called beta-endorphin.” Another gene variant that might affect alcoholism is the gene that controls a protein called beta-endorphin. This protein is produced in the brain to numb pain
It has been said that the person with the genetic predisposition to alcoholism is an alcoholic at birth whether or not he or she ever takes a drink. Taking the drink initiates the disease into its active phase. The ability to stop drinking before becoming addicted lies ultimately in the hands of the drinker. Alcoholism is influenced by both hereditary and environmental factors. Addictions, particularly addictions to alcohol tend to run in families and it is known that genes play a role in that process.
Even for alcoholism, the evidence for genetic inheritance is minor. At one point we seemed to hear regular announcements that scientists have discovered a gene that causes alcoholism or addiction. But this idea is no longer proposed the way it was. Sure, people still feel that addiction may be inherited. 
Home » Publications. The Genetics of Alcoholism Research has shown conclusively that familial transmission of alcoholism risk is at least in part genetic and not just the result of family environment (1). An understanding of the genetic underpinnings of alcoholism can help us identify those at risk and, in the long term, provide the foundation for tailoring prevention and treatment according to the particular physiology of each individual. References (1) National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA).
In general, alcoholism is considered a disorder that involves a combination of genetic, social and emotional factors. The hereditary impact involves multiple genes, some of which are yet to be discovered. Beta-endorphin and Alcoholism. “Another gene variant that might affect alcoholism is the gene that controls a protein called beta-endorphin.” Another gene variant that might affect alcoholism is the gene that controls a protein called beta-endorphin. This protein is produced in the brain to numb pain