From the Manufacturer's Label: Cartilage is one of the primary connective tissues of the body, providing flexibility and support to bone joints.** Undenatured Type II Collagen is the principal structural protein in cartilage that is responsible for its tensile strength and toughness.
UC-II Collagen is undenatured type II collagen that is from chicken sternum cartilage. It is known to support joint comfort, mobility and flexibility. It is the only source of undenatured type II collagen available in powder form and is supported by numerous human clinical studies.
Vitacost Undenatured Type II Collagen with UC II is a high-quality collagen supplement supplying 10 mg of undenatured type II collagen per single-capsule serving. According to the U.S. National Institutes of Health, collagens are a family of proteins that are part of body tissues, including skin, cartilage and joints.
Undenatured type II collagen that helps with joint comfort, mobility, and flexibility. UC-II Collagen is the newest ingredient to hit the joint health market. The human clinical research studies done on UC-II Collagen show that just 40mg of UC-II helps joint comfort, mobility and flexibility. The study was done with just 40mg of UC-II Collagen once a day.
UC-II is a novel undenatured type II collagen derived from chicken sternum cartilage. Previous studies have shown that undenatured type II collagen is effective in the treatment of RA (8 - 11), and preliminary human (12) and animal (13) trials have shown it to be effective in treating OA.
Undenatured chicken collagen, the primary ingredient in OsteoTec™ UC·II®, has been shown in studies and trials to help the body repair and rebuild joint cartilage-reducing joint pain, increasing joint mobility and flexibility, and promoting long-term joint health.
Derived from Undenatured chicken cartilage (extracted without heat or chemicals). UC-II provides the body with type-II collagen — one of the building blocks for healthy joint cartilage. UC-II is shown to promote overall joint health. It improves flexibility and mobility.
Derived from chicken sternum cartilage, UC-II® consists of Undenatured (native) Type II Collagen that works with the immune system to support healthy joints and promote joint mobility and flexibility.