: any of several nocturnal slow-moving tailless arboreal primates (family Lorisidae): as a: a slim-bodied primate (Loris tardigradus) of southern India and Sri Lanka b: either of two larger related primates (Nycticebus pygmaeus or North coucang) of southeastern Asia that are heavier limbed and slower moving. 
Nycticebus coucang. Slow lorises are one of three species of loris maintained at the Lemur Center (the others are pygmy slow lorises and slender lorises). 
The Slow Loris (Nycticebus coucang), is a critically endangered species in the Loris family. It is one of the Strepsirhini primates, and is found in parts of Southeast Asia. Its fur coat is thick and soft. The eyes are large, round and inquisitive. 
Loris is the common name for the strepsirrhine primates of the subfamily Lorinae (sometimes spelled Lorisinae) in the family Lorisidae. Loris is one genus in this subfamily and includes the slender lorises, while Nycticebus is the genus containing the slow lorises. Lorises are nocturnal. They are found in tropical and woodland forests of India, Sri Lanka, and parts of southeast Asia. Loris locomotion is a slow and cautious climbing form of quadrupedalism. Some lorises are almost entirely insectivorous, while others also include fruits, gums, leaves, and slugs in their diet.
Slow loris. This animal might look like a harmless, big-eyed baby ewok, but the slow loris is one of the only poisonous mammals in the world. Its subtle nature makes it popular in the illegal pet trade, but unknowing humans should stay clear of its toxin, which is released from the sides of its elbow
Slow lorises have a round head, narrow snout, large eyes, and a variety of distinctive coloration patterns that are species-dependent. Their arms and legs are nearly equal in length, and their trunk is long, allowing them to twist and extend to nearby branches. Each of the slow loris species that had been identified prior to 2012 is listed as either  Vulnerable  or  Endangered  on the IUCN Red List.
Loris. Loris is the common name for the strepsirrhine primates of the subfamily Lorisinae in family Lorisidae. Loris is one genus in this subfamily and includes the slender lorises, while Nycticebus is the genus of the slow lorises. Lorises are nocturnal. They are found in tropical and woodland forests of India, Sri Lanka, and parts in southeast Asia.
Slow lorises (genus Nycticebus) are strepsirrhine primates and are related to other living lorisoids, such as slender lorises (Loris), pottos (Perodicticus), false pottos (Pseudopotto), angwantibos (Arctocebus), and galagos (family Galagidae), and to the lemurs of Madagascar. Each of the slow loris species that had been identified prior to 2012 is listed as either  Vulnerable  or  Endangered  on the IUCN Red List.