We are a reputable, established company offering cash for gold and other precious metals. We are gold buyers, diamond buyers and platinum buyers. We buy gold silver jewelry, gold scrap, coins, estate jewelry, dental gold and estate jewelry. Our process makes it easy to sell jewelry online. Call us and we will send detailed instructions to your email. Ship the jewelry you want to sell at no cost to you. We even provide insurance of up to $25,000
1 For reference when buying or selling, there are 12 troy ounces to 1 troy pound. 2  There are approximately 31 grams to 1 troy ounce. 3  If you buy silver jewelry with stones or gems, consider reselling it as jewelry rather than for scrap. 1 There are approximately 31 grams to 1 troy ounce. 2  If you buy silver jewelry with stones or gems, consider reselling it as jewelry rather than for scrap. 3  If the jewelry is destroyed beyond repair, however, remove these stones before selling off the silver.
1 Silver is measured in troy ounces. 2  For reference when buying or selling, there are 12 troy ounces to 1 troy pound. 3  There are approximately 31 grams to 1 troy ounce. 4  If you buy silver jewelry with stones or gems, consider reselling it as jewelry rather than for scrap. 1 There are approximately 31 grams to 1 troy ounce. 2  If you buy silver jewelry with stones or gems, consider reselling it as jewelry rather than for scrap. 3  If the jewelry is destroyed beyond repair, however, remove these stones before selling off the silver.
Sell Scrap Silver For Cash. Scrap Silver consists of any Silver material containing a value higher than the costs associated with processing and recycling it.
We are buyers of silver industrial overstock scrap working with customers throughout the United States that want to sell silver industrial scrap at the best rates in the industry. Call Us Today At 1-877-491-9544. We do our own silver scrap processing to ensure you get the best pay-outs when you sell silver wire, silver shot and silver flake as well as clients and companies that want to sell over stock industrial silver scrap and silver reject and obsolete precious metals silver scrap.
Sell Your Scrap Silver. Call us Toll free 1-877-256-5646. We buy scrap in any form; sell us your scrap silver for the highest settlements. We buy silver from jewelry, silverware, dentistry, photography, electronics, mirrors and optics, medical, and industrial applications. 
The only scrap gold, silver and platinum buyers and refiners you will ever need! Serving jewelers, goldsmiths, dentists, dental laboratories, industries and companies generating precious metal scrap, physics departments, pawn shops, metal detector hobbyists, and the general public. We do business the old fashioned way! 
We are looking to buy your scrap silver for our UK manufacturing business. Items vary in their silver content and are usually between 80% to 92.5% silver content. 
We buy all types of silver & scrap silver in Birmingham & the UK tel 0121 448 0488 and pay the best cash price. We have customers selling silver from afar as Glasgow, London, Leeds, Cardiff and Bristol...Looking to sell Silver? We are based in Birmingham and are the UK's No.1 dedicated silver buyers, paying the best silver prices. We buy all types of silver & scrap for cash all over the UK ie all grades from .500, .800, .925 and .999. 