If dinner is the last thing you eat for the day, you'll have fasted for 10-12 hours by an early morning lab draw. However, if you're a late-night snacker, you'll have fasted maybe 6-7 hours. Usually, 6 hours is the minimum amount of time in which to perform any fasting test (at a hospital, anyway). If the patient's cholesterol is to be fractionated, he or she also should avoid alcohol for 24 hours before the test. http://www.healthatoz.com/healthatoz/Ato... To get accurate results, you should fast for 9 to 12
Generally, before a lipid or a glucose tolerance test, you’ll be told to fast for eight hours. However, your healthcare provider may advise you differently. Always follow his/her instructions to the letter. Breaking Your Fast. As soon as you’ve had your blood drawn, you’ll probably want to eat and drink something. It’s a good idea to bring along a snack so you can do so as soon as possible. Schedule your blood test for the early morning to minimize the length of time you’ll have to go without food.
If you are fasting, you’ll most likely be told not to eat for eight to 12 hours before your test. For this reason, cholesterol tests are often scheduled in the morning. A test that measures all of the different types of cholesterol levels is called a total lipid profile. 
Fasting and Cholesterol. For the study, researchers looked at the results of all the cholesterol tests processed at the same lab during a six-month stretch in 2011. Because the lab does all the testing for the entire city of Calgary, Canada, that amounted to test results for more than 200,000 people. 
Fast for eight to 12 hours before you have your first blood taken. The glucose tolerance test includes a blood draw before you drink a sugary liquid, and an hour after that as well. If you're doing a three-hour glucose tolerance test, then it's one blood draw every hour for three hours. If you're in the habit of eating every 4 hours, try missing a meal and see how you feel. Do this at least a week before you're scheduled to fast for the glucose tolerance test.
In some cases, you're not required to avoid coffee when you're fasting. Be honest when you go for your blood cholesterol test. If you were required to fast for 12 hours, and you only fasted for 8 hours because you had a snack before bedtime, let the lab know.
Patients who are scheduled for a lipid profile test should fast (except for water) for 12-14 hours before the blood sample is drawn. If the patient's cholesterol is to be fractionated, he or she also should avoid alcohol for 24 hours before the test. http://www.healthatoz.com/healthatoz/Ato... To get accurate results, you should fast for 9 to 12 hours before the test. The health care provider may advise you to stop taking drugs that can affect the test. (See Special considerations.) You may drink water during the fast, but other beverages such as coffee, tea, or soda may affect results
Sometimes this time frame is 6 to 8 hours and sometimes you might have to fast overnight. In some cases, you'll have to fast for up to 12 hours. Schedule your blood cholesterol test as early in the morning as possible if you're required to fast for 12 hours. You can stop eating at 6 p.m. or 7 p.m. Be honest when you go for your blood cholesterol test. If you were required to fast for 12 hours, and you only fasted for 8 hours because you had a snack before bedtime, let the lab know.
Do not eat or drink anything except water for 8 to 10 hours before a fasting blood glucose test. These are used to diagnose diabetes, a condition caused by too much glucose (sugar) in the blood. If you're just having a triglycerides test, do not drink alcohol for 24 hours before the test (you'll also need to fast, as explained above). Read more information about diagnosing high cholesterol.