First, scientists involved with common cold research do not know exactly how long a person with a cold is contagious. Based on previous studies, their best guess is that a person becomes contagious about two to three days before developing the usual symptoms of a cold. Second, this contagious period can last until the person no longer shows any symptoms. So in theory, a person is contagious for about two weeks. (Click Cold Symptoms to read about the symptoms of the common cold or Cold and Flu Symptoms to learn the difference between a cold and the flu.). Let's assume you're the one with the cold
In general, the flu is worse than the common cold, and symptoms such as fever, body aches, extreme tiredness, and dry cough are more common and intense. Colds are usually milder than the flu. People with colds are more likely to have a runny or stuffy nose. 
Most experts agree that adults with a cold or the flu start being contagious about a day before they start experiencing symptoms. For the flu, the contagious period then lasts five to seven days into the illness. For children, the contagious period for the flu can last up to two weeks after they start feeling sick, even if they start feeling better before that. The contagious period for a cold lasts about three to four days into the illness. As a general rule, people with a cold are most contagious about three days after their initial exposure to the virus. For more information on colds, influenza and related topics, check out the links on the next page. Print.
As a rule, colds are contagious a day before you know you are sick, and for about two days after. At one week, if you are feeling progressively better, and unless you have a secondary infection, your cold should not be contagious. This answer should not be considered medical advice... A. 
The Flu Is Contagious. Most healthy adults may be able to infect other people beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. 
The common, contagious cold is a brief, mild illness, usually lasting no more than a week. The flu can last somewhat longer, generally for about one to two weeks. The early symptoms of a cold are headache, sneezing, chills, and/or a sore throat start two to three days after you have been infected.
Some of the symptoms of a cold are caused by the actions of the virus. For example, destruction of cells lining the respiratory tract or throat can cause sore throat, cough, and runny nose. Other symptoms are caused by the body's immune reaction to the virus. In the back of my memory is the idea that one remains contagious until a few days *after* primary symptoms disappear. I'm not usually so concerned about this, but I'm coping with a couple of other annoying health problems and want to try to avoid adding a cold or flu, to boot.
The flu is contagious a day before and five days to a week after its onset. Young children, people over 65, those with compromised immune systems, and people with a terminal illness are at risk of death from the flu. Pregnant women are also at greater risk. The flu can also cause premature birth. Colds are contagious from about a week before you get them until all of your symptoms are gone, which is sometimes as long as two weeks. You might develop a secondary infection like an earache that lasts longer than contagious symptoms.
However, the viruses that cause colds (for example, rhinoviruses) are not the same as those that cause the flu (influenza viruses). Although the typical incubation period for influenza is about one to four days, some adults can be contagious from about one day before onset of symptoms for up to two weeks. Other people who develop complications, such as pneumonia, may extend the contagious period for a week or two. For colds, most individuals become contagious about a day before cold symptoms develop and remain contagious for about five to seven days. However, at this point in time, the cough is not spreading contagious virus. When cold symptoms and signs resolve, a person is cured of a cold. The flu is similar except that the symptoms are more severe and, in some individuals, medical intervention may be required (for example, antiviral medications).
The common, contagious cold is a brief, mild illness. The early symptoms of headache, sneezing, chills, and sore throat start two to three days after you have been infected. The symptoms of nasal discharge and congestion increase quickly and then go away after about a week. 