In humans, there are 46 chromosomes, in the form of 23 pairs. Chromosomes are supercoiled and wound around storage proteins called histones so the DNA can be packaged very compactly. Most of DNA appears to be 'junk' - that is, the base sequences don't make any sense. Cells don't seem to use this for much. the nucleus contains chromosomes (23 pairs in human cell) the chromosomes consists of DNA molecules and proteins(histone and nonhistone proteins) the genes are specific sequence of nucleotides (the building unite of DNA) on the DNA. Little princess · 8 years ago.
The information in the genome is stored as DNA, a molecule with a sugar-phosphate backbone (which keeps the shape of the characteristic DNA helix) and the bases adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). the nucleus contains chromosomes (23 pairs in human cell) the chromosomes consists of DNA molecules and proteins(histone and nonhistone proteins) the genes are specific sequence of nucleotides (the building unite of DNA) on the DNA. Little princess · 8 years ago.
A gene is a segment of DNA sequence which can fold in any orientation and hence will code for a particular protein. DNA molecule is a double helix structure formed by comple … mentary base pairing of nucleotides. Genes and DNAGenes are masses of DNA that direct certain things-think of genes as orders in the military and DNA as the words in those orders.
The coding sections are called exons, and a collection of exons make up a gene. Genes can then be read by the cell's machinery in a process called transcription. A process called translation then occurs, which as the name suggests 'translates' the sequence of DNA bases into a polypeptide chain, hence making a protein. the nucleus contains chromosomes (23 pairs in human cell) the chromosomes consists of DNA molecules and proteins(histone and nonhistone proteins) the genes are specific sequence of nucleotides (the building unite of DNA) on the DNA. Little princess · 8 years ago.
A) the genome means the entire collection of genes. B) genes are the proteins that package the genome. C) genomes are proteins that package genes. D) genes are the protein enzymes that are encoded by the genome. E) genomes are the A, T, C, G bases that contain information in genes. Add your answer.
Posted on. (Answer #1). Genes are the segments of DNA. DNA is the whole genome and it contains coding sequences as well as non-coding sequences and the coding sequences are the genes. A gene codes for a protein. Each gene, a distinct segment of DNA codes for a different protein. Proteins are important molecules as they are structural parts of an organism, can be enzymes or hormones. If a gene has a mutation, the protein may have limited or no function.
Genes. A gene is a length of DNA that codes for a specific protein. So, for example, one gene will code for the protein insulin, which is important role in helping your body to control the amount of sugar in your blood. Genes are the basic unit of genetics. Human beings have 20,000 to 25,000 genes. Genes are made of a chemical called DNA, which is short for 'deoxyribonucleic acid'. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase.