Report Abuse. The arrangement or geometry of the atoms in some molecules is such that one end of the molecule has a positive electrical charge and the other side has a negative charge. If this is the case, the molecule is called a polar molecule, meaning that it has electrical poles. Otherwise, it is called a non-polar molecule. 
Nonpolar. Definition. adjective. (physics) Not containing a dipole; lacking a permanently dipolar molecule. (chemistry) Pertaining to a compound that is nonionic or does not dissociate into ions. Supplement. Examples of nonpolar compounds are fats and oil. Many nonpolar compounds are hydrophobic. 
Hydrophobic; describing molecules or groups that are poorly soluble in water. These molecules would be composed either of elements having nonpolar covalent bonds or polar covalent bonds that cancel each other out. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z. 
A molecule, when forming a covalent bond with another molecule (meaning when it shares valence electrons with another molecule), may have a higher electronegativity than the latter. What this means is that it attracts more electrons (which carries negative charges, hence electro-negative). In the context of biology, polar molecules attract polar molecules and non-polar molecules attract non-polar molecules.
Nonpolar molecule. Definition. noun, plural: nonpolar molecules. A molecule with nonpolar bonds or with polar bonds but arranged symmetrically. Supplement. Polar bonds may occur in both polar and nonpolar molecules. However, the polar bonds in nonpolar molecules are arranged symmetrically causing dipoles to cancel out each other. As a result, nonpolar molecules have no net dipo
So, a molecule is nonpolar when the bond is ionic (which is a bond formed by magnetic forces) or when the molecules are similar in electronegativity, thus sharing the electrons equally, maintaining an equal charge for both sides of the new combined covalent molecule. This is applied in biology; water, H20, is covalent. In the context of biology, polar molecules attract polar molecules and non-polar molecules attract non-polar molecules.
Some types of chemical bonding are very similar to the way that children play with toys. Nonpolar covalent bonds are a type of bond that occurs when two atoms share a pair of electrons with each other. These shared electrons glue two or more atoms together to form a molecule. Like children who share toys, atoms involved in a nonpolar covalent bond equally share electrons. An example of a nonpolar covalent bond is the bond between two hydrogen atoms because they equally share the electrons. 
The terms polar and nonpolar describe the ways in which individual particles of matter, or atoms, interact with water in a living organism and the ways in which groups of atoms that are stuck together, or molecules, interact with water. Polar atoms and molecules interact freely with water, while nonpolar atoms and molecules resist this interaction. This is relevant in cell biology becuase water is such a large component of living organisms, comprising up to 60 percent of the human body and up to 90 percent of other organisms.
Since all electrons are shared evenly there is no dipole moment and thus no charge on the molecule. In the context of biology, polar molecules attract polar molecules and non-polar molecules attract non-polar molecules. Just like when you mix oil (non-polar) and water (polar) they do not mix
The Difference between polar and nonpolar molecules as follows. Polar molecules. A molecule in which there is a little division of charge in the chemical bonds, so that one part of the molecule has a small positive charge and the other has negative charge i.e. dipole. H2O is a good example of a polar molecule. 