What was the origin of the term Axis as it pertained to Germany Italy and Japan in World War 2?  Answer   Originally at Italian-German statement of common interest, first used on Oct. 12, 1936. The Axis became enlarged when Japan, which had previously signed the Anti-Comitern Pact, adhered to an agreement for a 10 year military alliance with Germany & Italy on Sept. 27, 1940.
The Axis powers agreed on their opposition to the Allies, but did not coordinate their activity. The Axis grew out of the diplomatic efforts of Germany, Italy and Japan to secure their own specific expansionist interests in the mid-1930s. The first step was the treaty signed by Germany and Italy in October 1936. Mussolini declared on November 1 that all other European countries would from then on rotate on the Rome-Berlin axis, thus creating the term Axis. The almost simultaneous second step was the signing in November 1936 of the Anti-Comintern Pact, an anti-communist treaty between Germany and Japan. 
In World War II, the Allied powers were those countries, including Great Britain, the Soviet Union, the United States, China, and France (before its defeat in 1940), that opposed the Axis powers. In World War II, the alliance of Germany, Italy, and Japan formed the Axis powers. On 4 June 1942, U.S. forces defeated the Japanese navy at this decisive battle near Midway Island in the South Pacific. A German word that means Lightning Warfare.. 
Answer   Italy, Germany, and Japan formed an alliance on November 6, 1937.     It was first just Japan and Germany. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. The Axis became enlarged when Japan, which had previously signed the Anti-Comitern Pact, adhered to an agreement for a 10 year military alliance with Germany & Italy on Sept. 27, 1940.     Richard V. Horrell   WW 2 Connections.com .
The alliance began to form in 1936. First, on October 15, 1936 Germany and Italy signed a friendship treaty that formed the Rome-German Axis. It was after this treaty that Italian dictator Benito Mussolini used the term Axis to refer to their alliance. Shortly after this, on November 25, 1936, Japan and Germany both signed the Anti-Comintern Pact, which was a treaty against communism. World War II was fought between two major groups of nations. They became known as the Axis Powers and the Allied Powers. The major Axis Powers were Germany, Italy, and Japan.
An even stronger alliance was signed between Germany and Italy on May 22, 1939 called the Pact of Steel. This treaty would later be called the Tripartite Pact when Japan signed it on September 27, 1940. Now the three main Axis Powers were allies in the war. World War II was fought between two major groups of nations. They became known as the Axis Powers and the Allied Powers. The major Axis Powers were Germany, Italy, and Japan.
Answer   Italy, Germany, and Japan formed an alliance on November 6, 1937.     It was first just Japan and Germany. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. The Axis became enlarged when Japan, which had previously signed the Anti-Comitern Pact, adhered to an agreement for a 10 year military alliance with Germany & Italy on Sept. 27, 1940.
1 Axis Powers-An alliance formed by Germany, Italy, and Japan. 2  These countries wanted to expand and conquer other countries. 3  They were opposed by the Allied Powers. 4  Blitzkrieg-This means lightning war in German. 5  Hitler would attack quickly and try to take over a country before it had time to fight back. 1 When Hitler invaded Poland, they realized that appeasement would not work and France and Great Britain declared war on Germany. 2  Axis Powers-An alliance formed by Germany, Italy, and Japan. 3  These countries wanted to expand and conquer other countries. 4  They were opposed by the Allied Powers.