Spirit Vinegar is produced from the finest alcohol distilled from sugar cane. It has an off-neutral taste and is widely used as a natural acidifying ingredient by food and condiment producers. It is also an economical flavour enhancer when used in home cooking. Grape Vinegar is the ideal basic cooking vinegar. 
1 White, also known as spirit vinegar, has 5% to 20% acetic acid. 2  This is generally higher as compared to distilled vinegar’s 5%-8%. 3  White is made by natural fermentation of sugar cane extract or by combining acetic acid with water. Since white or spirit vinegar contains a higher percentage of acidic content, it is more ideal a household cleaning agent. It provides an eco-friendly solution for eliminating dirt and bad odor on a wide array of materials like fabric, metal, glass, fur, tiles and many others.
Vinegar is a liquid consisting mainly of acetic acid (CH 3 COOH) and water. The acetic acid is produced by the fermentation of ethanol by acetic acid bacteria. Vinegar is now mainly used as a cooking ingredient. Historically, as the most easily available mild acid, it had a great variety of industrial, medical and domestic uses, some of which (such as its use as a general household cleanser) are still promoted today. The term distilled vinegar is something of a misnomer, because it is not produced by distillation but by fermentation of distilled alcohol. The fermentate is diluted to produce a colorless solution of 5% to 8% acetic acid in water, with a pH of about 2.4.
It is historically produced from wine, but can also be made from a number of other substances, such as various fruits (notably apples to make cider vinegar), grains (to make malt vinegars) and, most cheaply and commonly, cane sugar (to make spirit vinegar). 
Wine. Wine vinegar is made from red or white wine, and is the most commonly used vinegar in Mediterranean countries and Central Europe. As with wine, there is a considerable range in quality. Better quality wine vinegars are matured in wood for up to two years and exhibit a complex, mellow flavor. Tanya has it almost right - white vinegar is distilled vinegar-sometimes knwn as spirit vinegar. It is distilled from malt vinegar and is the same price as malt vinegar..
The product label will identify the starting ingredients, such as 'apple cider vinegar' or 'wine vinegar.' Malt vinegar is made from the fermentation of barley malt or other cereal grains. Sugar vinegar is made from sugar, syrup, or molasses. White, spirit, or distilled vinegar is made by fermenting distilled alcohol. Distilled white vinegar is made from 190 proof alcohol that is fermented by adding sugar and living bacteria. ... 
Wine vinegar is made from red or white wine, and is the most commonly used vinegar in Southern and Central Europe, Cyprus and Israel. As with wine, there is a considerable range in quality. Better-quality wine vinegars are matured in wood for up to two years, and exhibit a complex, mellow flavor. The term distilled vinegar is something of a misnomer, because it is not produced by distillation but by fermentation of distilled alcohol. The fermentate is diluted to produce a colorless solution of 5% to 8% acetic acid in water, with a pH of about 2.4.
Spirit or distilled vinegar, made by the acetic fermentation of dilute distilled alcohol.    Blended Vinegar made from a mixture of Spirit vinegar and Cider vinegar is considered a combination of the products that should be labeled with the product names in the order of predominance. It is also the product made by the two-fold fermentation of a mixture of alcohol and cider stock. The answer is: Most probably YES!!!   Most types of vinegars and not only the spirit vinegar contain traces of alcohol. Vinegar is fermented from alcohol and some of the a … lcohol may remain in the resulting mixture.   The amount of alcohol in vinegar is considered to be negligible and vinegars are not intoxicants.
1 They differ fundamentally in their acetic acid content. 2  White, also known as spirit vinegar, has 5% to 20% acetic acid. 3  This is generally higher as compared to distilled vinegar’s 5%-8%. 4  White is made by natural fermentation of sugar cane extract or by combining acetic acid with water. Since white or spirit vinegar contains a higher percentage of acidic content, it is more ideal a household cleaning agent. It provides an eco-friendly solution for eliminating dirt and bad odor on a wide array of materials like fabric, metal, glass, fur, tiles and many others.