Always remembered as an Impressionist, Edgar Degas was a member of the seminal group of Paris artists who began to exhibit together in the 1870s. He shared many of their novel techniques, was intrigued by the challenge of capturing effects of light and attracted to scenes of urban leisure. There is something unique and alluring in all of Degas's studies of ballerinas, of which there are many. In Foyer de la Danse he presents us with one of the unconventional perspectives that are so typical and distinctive in his work.
Degas became a painter in an extraordinary period and place. He was born in Paris in 1834, two years after Manet and during a decade that saw the birth of the painters Cezanne, Cézanne, Monet renoir And Berthe morisot and the Poets mallarme Mallarmé. and verlaine “He had the luck, that Rembrandt!” Degas said. “He painted Susanna at the bath; me, I paint women at the tub.”. At the ballet Degas found a world that excited both his taste for classical beauty and his eye for modern realism.
Opera and ballet were a fashionable part of Parisian cultural life, and Degas was likely in the audience long before he began to paint the dancers. Indeed, some of his first dance paintings portray the audience and orchestra as prominently as the ballerinas onstage. “He had the luck, that Rembrandt!” Degas said. “He painted Susanna at the bath; me, I paint women at the tub.”. At the ballet Degas found a world that excited both his taste for classical beauty and his eye for modern realism.
Although famous for horses and dancers, Degas began with conventional historical paintings such as The Daughter of Jephthah (c.1859–61) and The Young Spartans (c.1860–62), in which his gradual progress toward a less idealized treatment of the figure is already apparent. Degas began to paint early in life. By the time he graduated from the Lycee lycée with a baccalaureat baccalauréat in literature, in 1853 at, age 18 he had turned a room in his home into'an artist. S studio, upon graduating he registered as a Copyist In The, louvre museum but his father expected him to go to. law school
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Next Last. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Next Last. Self portrait. Edgar Degas (19 July 1834 – 27 September 1917), born Hilaire-Germain-Edgar Degas (pronounced [ilɛʀ ʒɛʁmɛ̃ ɛdɡɑʀ doeˈɡɑ]), dœˈɡɑ was A french artist famous for his work in, painting, sculpture printmaking and. drawing 
Best Answer: It was during the 1870's that Degas acquired his enduring reputation as a painter of dancers. The reasons for his interest in dance were numerous and diverse but certainly stem from his life-long enthusiasm for music and the opera. I am a presenter for our Elementary School's Art Smarts Program. Just last year we presented Edgar Degas. Edgar Degas began painting ballerinas because he loved ballet, and because he loved the artistry and power of movement. For similar reasons he also painted many beautiful pictures of racehorses.
. . the most delightful of pretexts for using pale, soft tints.” Edgar Degas, 39 years old at the time, would paint ballerinas for the rest of his career, and de Goncourt was right about the pretext. “People call me the painter of dancing girls,” Degas later told Paris art dealer Ambroise Vollard. “He had the luck, that Rembrandt!” Degas said. “He painted Susanna at the bath; me, I paint women at the tub.”. At the ballet Degas found a world that excited both his taste for classical beauty and his eye for modern realism.
Later, he continued to paint and draw ballerinas for two additional reasons: first, the ballerina pictures sold so well that they were making him wealthy, and, second, as he was losing his sight, it was easier for him to use pastels to draw a topic with which he had so much familiarity. I am a presenter for our Elementary School's Art Smarts Program. Just last year we presented Edgar Degas. Edgar Degas began painting ballerinas because he loved ballet, and because he loved the artistry and power of movement. For similar reasons he also painted many beautiful pictures of racehorses.
The Dancers and Degas Edgar Degas “Yesterday I spent the whole day in the studio of a strange painter called Degas. After a great many essays and experiments and trial shots in all directions, he has fallen in love with modern life, and out of all the subjects in modern life he has chosen washerwomen and ballet-dancers. I’m a ballerina, and I posed for the great artist Edgar Degas. He lived in Paris in the nineteenth century and the ballet was his favorite subject. Let’s explore the world of the dancer in works by Degas at The Metropolitan Museum of Art.