1 In a synthesis reaction two or more chemical species combine to form a more complex product. 2  A + B → AB. 3  The combination of iron and sulfur to form iron (II) sulfide is an example of a synthesis reaction 4  : 8 Fe + S 8 → 8 FeS. A chemical reaction is a process that is usually characterized by a chemical change in which the starting materials (reactants) are different from the products. Chemical reactions tend to involve the motion of electrons, leading to the formation and breaking of chemical bonds.
Combustion /kəmˈbʌs.tʃən/ or burning is a high-temperature exothermic redox chemical reaction between a fuel and an oxidant, usually atmospheric oxygen, that produces oxidized, often gaseous products, in a mixture termed as smoke. 
DO NOT just copy the subscripts from the reactants over into the products. Combustion, at its most general, can mean the reaction of oxygen gas (O. However, we will understand combustion to mean the reaction of oxygen with an compound containing carbon and hydrogen. A common synonym for combustion is burn. 
Decomposition reactions differ from combustion reactions because a combustion   reaction is an exothermic reaction in which the substance combines with oxygen, and a   d … ecomposition reaction is when a substance is broken down into simpler substances. Combustion: A combustion reaction is when oxygen combines with another compound to form water and carbon dioxide. These reactions are exothermic, meaning they produce heat. An …. 4 people found this useful.
Sometimes, as during oxidation reactions oxygen is either added or hydrogen is removed from that particular element or compound undergoing the reaction. Combustion is burning … taking place in the presence of oxygen so when the certain substance burns it is having oxygen added to it. Combustion: A combustion reaction is when oxygen combines with another compound to form water and carbon dioxide. These reactions are exothermic, meaning they produce heat. An …. 4 people found this useful.
Report Abuse. Generally, a combustion reaction is defined as the reaction of a carbon/hydrogen based compound with oxygen to give CO2 and H2O, example C3H8 + 5O2 = 3CO2 + 4H2O. Peter Boiter Woods · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. 
A combustion reaction is a major class of chemical reactions. Combustion usually occurs when a hydrocarbon reacts with oxygen to produce carbon dioxide and water. In the more general sense, combustion involves a reaction between any combustible material and an oxidizer to form an oxidized product. Combustion is an exothermic reaction, so it releases heat, but sometimes the reaction proceeds so slowly that a temperature change is not noticeable.
Combination Reactions In a combination reaction the atoms and/or molecules do what the name implies: they combine to form the product. Combination reactions are always exothermic. For example barium metal and fluorine gas will combine in a highly exothermic reaction to form the salt barium fluoride: Another example is given by magnesium oxide combining with carbon dioxide: Often, reaction can fall into more than one category. 
The reactants, A and B, combine to form a new single product, AB, which is always a compound (more on that later). An example of a combination reaction is when hydrogen and chlorine react to form hydrochloric acid: The subscripts in the chemical reaction above refer to the states of matter. A combination reaction, , also known as a synthesis reaction in chemistry is when two or more substances, or reactants, combine with each other to form a new product. The product will always be a compound.