Sports stadiums with naming rights deals are not limited to the United States. Named stadiums can be found in countries including Australia, Japan, China, Finland, Canada, Israel and Germany, where 8 of the 10 largest football stadiums have their naming rights sold to corporate sponsors. Naming rights also extend outside stadiums in the realm of sports. In college football, all of the Division I bowl games have either modified or abandoned their traditional names in favor of titl
1 Put your sponsorship opportunity in front of potential sponsors that you may never have thought of contacting. 2  We have spent more than a hundred thousand dollars over the last five years advertising our site to sponsors. 3  Now you can get the benefit of that hundred thousand dollars for only $19. 1 Use SponsorAnything's unique questionnaire to carefully consider all aspects of your sponsorship opportunity and ensure that potential sponsors have the critical information they need to see if your opportunity fits their criteria.
Sponsorship Benefits. All sponsors will receive: 1  Logo imprint on event invitations. 2  Name/Logo printed in event program. ( 3 Deadline for submission: January 2, 2012). 4  Recognition in all event advertising and promotional materials. 5  Company logo displayed at the gala event throughout the evening. 1 Recognition in all event advertising and promotional materials. 2  Company logo displayed at the gala event throughout the evening. 3  Special recognition for one year on the Conard House Gala website, including your name or logo with a link to your website. 4  Preferred Dinner Seating at the gala dinner.
This publication is intended for private sponsors (i.e., Sponsorship Agreement Holders (SAHs) and their Constituent Groups (CG), Groups of Five (G5) and Community Sponsors (CS)) in Canada who are interested in sponsoring refugees from abroad. To help more Canadians and permanent residents privately sponsor Syrian and Iraqi refugees, Citizenship and Immigration Canada has waived the requirement for Groups of Five and Community Sponsors to provide proof that the sponsored person is a refugee. This guide is currently being updated.
Sponsorship [Sponsorship: To support an event, activity or person by providing money or goods. ] is a major feature of sport in the 21st century. Most clubs have commercial sponsors. Most competitions have sponsors names included in their title: 1  Barclay's Premier League-Football. 
A title sponsor replaces the original name of the property with a corporate-sponsored one, with no reference to the previous name. In a few cases, naming rights contracts have been terminated prematurely. Such terminations may be the result of contractual options, sponsor bankruptcy, or scandals. Naming rights also extend outside stadiums in the realm of sports. In college football, all of the Division I bowl games have either modified or abandoned their traditional names in favor of title sponsors.
There are several forms of corporate sponsored names. A presenting sponsor attaches the name of the corporation or brand at the end (or, sometimes, beginning) of a generic, usually traditional, name (e.g. Mall of America Field at Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome). Naming rights also extend outside stadiums in the realm of sports. In college football, all of the Division I bowl games have either modified or abandoned their traditional names in favor of title sponsors.
All sponsors will receive: 1  Logo imprint on event invitations. 2  Name/Logo printed in event program. 3  Recognition in all event advertising and promotional materials. 4  Company logo displayed at the gala event throughout the evening. 5  Special recognition for one year on the Conard House Gala website, including your name or logo with a link to your website. 1 Recognition in all event advertising and promotional materials. 2  Company logo displayed at the gala event throughout the evening. 3  Special recognition for one year on the Conard House Gala website, including your name or logo with a link to your website. 4  Preferred Dinner Seating at the gala dinner.
After participants decide on a program they are interested in, the next step is to find a sponsor. Program sponsors are responsible for selecting participants for the Exchange Visitor Program, as well as supporting and monitoring them during their entire program stay. Participants should contact the sponsors directly to find out more about a specific program and application requirements.