The name means great [story of the] Bharatas. Bharata was an early ancestor of both the Pandavas and Kauravas who fight each other in a great war, but the word is also used generically for the Indian race, so the Mahabharata sometimes is referred to as the great story of India. 1 Krishna s deification in the Mahabharata may be based on later interpolations into the text, as there is considerable tension in the epic between the depiction of the divine Krishna and the human prince who acts as counselor to the Pandavas, gives devious advice, and eventually dies.
It has been called the national epic of India, and it is that, in very much the same sense that the Iliad is the national epic of Classical Greece. The Mahabharata is the story of a great war that ended one age and began another. 
The Great War of Mahabharat between the Pandavas and the Kauravas happened in 3139 BC. The Pandavas, after winning the Mahabharat war, ruled Hastinapur for 36 years and 8 months until the beginning of kaliyug in 3102 BC. 
The Mahabharata is a rich source of subjects and images that have been reworked in the national literatures of India, Indonesia, Burma, Cambodia, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Tibet, and Mongolia. The other great Sanskrit epic is the Ramayana Ramayana[story of Rama], classical Sanskrit epic of India, probably composed in the 3d cent.
10 most extreme places on Earth. The Mahabharata is an epic poem of the Indian sub-continent, which is one of the most important text of the Hindu faith. It dates back as far as the 8th century BCE, with later portions being added up to the 4th century BCE. In summary, the book revolved around Hinduism’s epic battle -- the Mahabharata -- and how it can be used as a metaphor for everyday life. Explained in the simplest of terms, the Mahabharata was the battle between cousins over control of a. kingdom.
(məhae'məhä`baer) , bär ətə classical sanskrit Epic, of india probably composed Between.200. b C.And. a. D 200, the mahabharata comprising 90,000 than, 90000 couplets usually of, 32 syllables is the longest single poem in. world literature The other great Sanskrit epic is the Ramayana Ramayana[story of Rama], classical Sanskrit epic of India, probably composed in the 3d cent.
/ 0 comments. Mahabharata is epic poem from Indian sub-continent and is one of most important text in Hindu religion. Mahabharata dates back to around eight century BCE and some portions were later added in fourth century BCE. Mahabharata roughly means Tale of the Bharata Dynasty. It is mythological tale from ancient India. 
The Mahabharata is the longest known epic poem and has been described as the longest poem ever written. Its longest version consists of over 100,000 shloka or over 200,000 individual verse lines (each shloka is a couplet), and long prose passages. Among the principal works and stories in the Mahabharata are the Bhagavad Gita, the story of Damayanti, an abbreviated version of the Ramayana, and the Rishyasringa, often considered as works in their own right.
[məɦaːˈbʱaːrət̪əm]) is one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India, the other being the Ramayana. The Mahabharata is an epic narrative of the Kurukshetra War and the fates of the Kaurava and the Pandava princes. It also contains philosophical and devotional material, such as a discussion of the four goals of life or purusharthas (12.161). Among the principal works and stories in the Mahabharata are the Bhagavad Gita, the story of Damayanti, an abbreviated version of the Ramayana, and the Rishyasringa, often considered as works in their own right.