The first homonids (animals from the same genus as people) evolved about 3 million years ago. Our species, Homo sapiens, evolved about 200,000 years ago. All of the time since … the dinosaurs died out 65.5 million years ago is called the Cenozoic Era, thus humans evolved in the Cenozoic. 6 people found this useful.
The first modern Humans came out of Africa 200,000 years ago. This theory believes that Homo sapiens sapiens evolved in Africa and were truly the first modern humans. (Lewin, 1987) They then moved North out of Africa for the second time around 60,000-45,000 years ago moving into other locations of the world.
During a time of dramatic climate change 200,000 years ago, Homo sapiens evolved in Africa. Like other early humans that were living at this time, they gathered and hunted food, and evolved behaviors that helped them respond to the challenges of survival in unstable environments. 
Homo sapiens evolved in Africa around 150,000 years ago. The modern human, known as Homo sapiens sapiens, is a sub species of the original Home sapiens. We are constantly thinking about our origins. This theory believes that Homo sapiens sapiens evolved in Africa and were truly the first modern humans. (Lewin, 1987) They then moved North out of Africa for the second time around 60,000-45,000 years ago moving into other locations of the world.
Early modern Homo sapiens in Africa and Southwest Asia 100,000 years ago made tools that were similar to those of the Neandertals and other late archaic humans. These were mostly simple Mousterian-like Levallois flake and core tools. 
Our species of humans first began to evolve nearly 200,000 years ago in association with technologies not unlike those of the early Neandertals. It is now clear that early Homo sapiens, or modern humans, did not come after the Neandertals but were their contemporaries. http://anthro.palomar.edu/homo2/mod_homo... That time, 200,000 years marks the end of one period and the beginning of another. The Lower Paleolithic ends as the Middle Paleolithic begins.
The exact origin of modern humans has long been a topic of debate. Modern humans originated in Africa within the past 200,000 years and evolved from their most likely recent common ancestor, Homo erectus. Current genomic evidence supports a single ‘out-of Africa’ migration of modern humans. There is more genetic diversity in Africa compared with the rest of the world put together. 
Early Modern Homo sapiens. All people today are classified as Homo sapiens. Our species of humans first began to evolve nearly 200,000 years ago in association with technologies not unlike those of the early Neandertals. It is now clear that early Homo sapiens, or modern humans, did not come after the Neandertals but were their contemporaries. It would be a mistake to assume that from the time modern Homo sapiens began migrating out of Africa that all people in that continent were modern humans. The video below presents evidence of pockets of archaic humans surviving in West Africa until at least 13,000 years ago.
A lot depends on your definition of human Anatomically modern humans who look like today's people evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in Africa in the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago. 