Definite essential tremor is postural tremors in the arms that increase during action in the absence of any condition or drug known to cause enhanced physiologic tremor and in the absence of cerebellar symptoms and signs, and in the absence of Parkinson's disease and dystonia. Essential Tremor. Essential tremor is the most common form of all movement disorders. Classic essential tremor is predominantly a postural-or action-type tremor, and usually the patient has a positive family history of tremor. Drinking alcohol often temporarily reduces the tremor.
Essential tremor (ET) is a progressive, neurological disorder characterized by tremor, most often of the hands or arms. A tremor is an involuntary, rhythmic, movement of a body part. Tremor may be seen as involuntary shaking or trembling of the affected area. 
This tremor subtype may also occur when a person extends the tongue out of the mouth and, intending to keep it still, experiences involuntary movement. Sometimes referred to as an action tremor, a postural tremor may also include an involuntary muscle contraction. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A postural tremor, also sometimes referred to as an action tremor, is the term used to describe involuntary movement occurring when an individual holds a physical position against gravity. Tremors are assigned to multiple categories depending on the symptoms of each
Essential tremor: Uncontrollable shaking (tremor) of the hands and arms and sometimes other parts of the body. Essential tremor is the most common of all movement disorders and is estimated to affect up to 5% of people in the US. The degree of severity of symptoms is variable among affected people. It most often affects the hands and arms but may also involve the legs, trunk, head, voice, and chin. Also known as familial tremor, heredofamilial tremor, and hereditary essential tremor. See: ETM1; ETM2.
postural tremor. Definitions: 1. tremor present when the limbs or trunk are kept in certain positions and when they are moved actively, usually due to near-synchronous rhythmic bursts in opposing muscle groups. Synonyms: static tremor. The definition information for postural tremor is provided by Stedman's. 
Tremor, an involuntary, rhythmic, oscillatory movement of a body part, is the most common movement disorder encountered in clinical practice. Rest tremors occur in a body part that is relaxed and completely supported against gravity. 
Tremor is an unintentional, rhythmic muscle movement involving to-and-fro movements (oscillations) of one or more parts of the body. It is the most common of all involuntary movements and can affect the hands, arms, head, face, voice, trunk, and legs. Most tremors occur in the hands. The tremor is often most prominent when the affected person is active or is maintaining a particular posture. Cerebellar tremor may be accompanied by dysarthria (speech problems), nystagmus (rapid involuntary movements of the eyes), gait problems, and postural tremor of the trunk and neck.
Essential tremor is commonly described as an action tremor (it intensifies when one tries to use the affected muscles) or postural tremor (present with sustained muscle tone) rather than a resting tremor, such as is seen in Parkinson’s, which is usually not included among its symptoms. It typically involves a tremor of the arms, hands or fingers but sometimes involving the head, vocal cords or other body parts during voluntary movements such as eating and writing.