Tax Return. If the child’s Social Security benefits are taxable, use Form 1040 or 1040A to file taxes. Form 1040EZ cannot be used. Use the worksheet included in the tax return form, or in IRS Publication 915, to calculate the taxable amount of Social Security benefits. Social Security Benefits for Children. A child may receive Social Security benefits if a parent is retired or disabled and receives Social Security benefits, or if a parent dies and that parent has paid enough in Social Security taxes to qualify for benefits.
Take half your child's Social Security income and add it to her adjustable gross income. Add any nontaxable interest she earned. If the total comes to between $25,000 and $34,000 -- as of 2012 -- 50 percent of her benefits are taxable. Above $34,000, 85 percent of benefits are taxable. Even survivor Social Security benefits paid to a minor child are potentially taxable income. The key word is potentially: Benefits are only taxable if you have added income besides Social Security. Few children have enough added income to require paying taxes on their benefits.
When Benefits are Taxable. A child who receives only Social Security benefits and no other income probably won’t owe taxes on the benefits. The parent’s Social Security benefits are not included as part of the child’s income. Social Security Benefits for Children. A child may receive Social Security benefits if a parent is retired or disabled and receives Social Security benefits, or if a parent dies and that parent has paid enough in Social Security taxes to qualify for benefits.
Even though you collected the benefits to support your child, you can't claim your child's benefits on your own taxes. Generally, adults collect Social Security benefits, but a child can also collect benefits if a parent is retired, disabled or deceased. When you file your own income taxes, the obvious scenario is that you have to claim your child’s benefits on your own income taxes – but this isn’t the case. Generally, a child won’t collect enough Social Security benefits to file, but if one-half his benefits, plus any additional income, exceed $25,000, you’ll have to file a separate return for your child.
Reporting. If your child has taxable Social Security benefits, she -- or you, if you handle the paperwork -- can't use the 1040EZ. The taxes must be filed using the 1040 or 1040A. Report the net benefits and the taxable benefits separately. Even survivor Social Security benefits paid to a minor child are potentially taxable income. The key word is potentially: Benefits are only taxable if you have added income besides Social Security. Few children have enough added income to require paying taxes on their benefits.
Typically, a child will not receive enough from Social Security benefits to pay income taxes, but if the child has additional sources of income, a portion of the benefits might be taxable. When determining whether a child’s benefits are taxable, you must consider the child’s income separately from your own. 
Social Security survivor benefits for children are considered taxable income only for the children who are entitled to receive them, even if the checks are made out to a parent or guardian. Most children do not make enough in a year to owe any taxes. 
The Social Security Administration pays monthly benefits to more than 4 million children who qualify through a disability determination or through a parent’s benefits. The Internal Revenue Service considers the benefits income, which might be taxable. Consider only the child’s income, from Social Security benefits and other sources, to determine if taxes are owed and if a tax return must be filed for the child. Social Security Benefits for Children. A child may receive Social Security benefits if a parent is retired or disabled and receives Social Security benefits, or if a parent dies and that parent has paid enough in Social Security taxes to qualify for benefits.
Whether Social Security benefits made to children become taxable depends on the type of benefits the children receive under their parents. The benefits received from Social Security after retirement are considered taxable income. Any additional payments, such as a child's SSI benefits, become taxable income. 