1. In this type of germination, the seed /cotyledons emerge out of the soil or above the soil. 2. The cotyledons turn green (photosynthetic) and act as first leaves of the plant.
The seeds are much bigger than those of plants with epigeal germination. Because the cotyledon stays below the ground, it is much less vulnerable to for example night-frost or grazing. The evolutionary strategy is that the plant produces a relatively low number of seeds, but each seed has a bigger chance of surviving. Hypogeal germination implies that the cotyledons stay below the ground. The epicotyl (part of the stem above the cotyledon) grows, while the hypocotyl (part of the stem below the cotyledon) stays the same length. In this way, the epicotyl pushes the plumule above
Example sentences. 1  Following germination, initial growth of both the root and hypocotyl of epigeal seedlings is downwards, arguably as an adaptation to maintain contact with soil moisture in the surface layers of the soil which dry rapidly. 1 Following germination, initial growth of both the root and hypocotyl of epigeal seedlings is downwards, arguably as an adaptation to maintain contact with soil moisture in the surface layers of the soil which dry rapidly. 2  The germination of seeds is epigeal.
epigeal. adj. 1. (Botany) of or relating to seed germination in which the cotyledons appear above the ground because of the growth of the hypocotyl. 2. (Biology) living or growing on or close to the surface of the ground. [C19: from Greek epigeios of the earth, from epi- + gē earth]. 
In hypogeal germination the epicotyl extends and the cotyledons stay in the ground, whereas in epigeal germination the hypocotyl extends and the cotyledons come out of the ground. (It is where the cotyledons end up that defines the terms – hypo for under and epi for above). In hypogeal germination the cotyledons provide a food source for the growing seedling, eventually shrivelling up. Thefirst leaves are formed from the plumule and are sometimes referred to as ‘true leaves’.
In epigeal germination, the cotyledons become photosynthetic, and are often known as the ‘seed leaves’, the second leaves to form derive from the plumule. Phaseolus vulgaris is an example of a plant that has epigeal germination. Vicia faba is an example of a plant that has hypogeal germination. You can see a lovely time lapse of Vicia faba germination here (by Neil Bromhall): This page is part of our 6-week RHS revision email series. In hypogeal germination the cotyledons provide a food source for the growing seedling, eventually shrivelling up. Thefirst leaves are formed from the plumule and are sometimes referred to as ‘true leaves’.
Hypogeal germination (Greek: ὑπόγαιος/ὑπόγειος hypogaios/hypógaios = 'hypogeios hypógeios', below ground from = 'ὑπό', hypo below = 'γῆ/ge') gè earth ground is a botanical term indicating that the germination of a plant takes place. below the ground Hypogeal germination implies that the cotyledons stay below the ground. The epicotyl (part of the stem above the cotyledon) grows, while the hypocotyl (part of the stem below the cotyledon) stays the same length. In this way, the epicotyl pushes the plumule above
Hypogeal germination (Greek: ὑπόγαιος/ὑπόγειος hypogaios/hypógaios = 'hypogeios hypógeios', below ground from = 'ὑπό', hypo below = 'γῆ/ge') gè earth ground is a botanical term indicating that the germination of a plant takes place. Below the ground an example of a plant with hypogeal germination (Is the). pea pisum sativum Hypogeal germination implies that the cotyledons stay below the ground. The epicotyl (part of the stem above the cotyledon) grows, while the hypocotyl (part of the stem below the cotyledon) stays the same length. In this way, the epicotyl pushes the plumule above
Best Answer: There are two types of germination depending on whether the cotyledons are lifted above ground or remain below ground: epigeal and hypogeal. Epigeal Germination (Dicots) * In epigeal (epi=above) germination, the hypocotyl (hypocotyl is the stem below the cotyledons) pushes the cotyledons above ground. * The cotyledons function as leaves until the true leaves emerge. * Example-bean, canola Hypogeal Germination (Dicot) * In hypogeal germination, the cotyledons remain below ground. * The epicotyl (stem above the cotyledons) grows and raises the plumule out of the soil.