Democracy is a Greek term which means 'rule of people'. This system of government was first practiced by Greek city state of Athens. Although this did not include wo … men or slaves, this was the bulk of the male population of the city. The word democracy, in fact, comes from Greek: Demos meaning people and kratia being the word for government.
Athens in the 4th to 5th century BCE had an extraordinary system of government, whereby all male citizens had equal political rights, freedom of speech, and the opportunity to participate directly in the political arena. This system was democracy. 
Athenian democracy developed around the fifth century B.C. in the Greek city-state (known as a polis) of Athens, comprising the city of Athens and the surrounding territory of Attica and is the first known democracy in the world. A new version of democracy was established from 403 BC, but it can be linked with both earlier and subsequent reforms (graphē paranomōn paranómōn 416; bc end of assembly trials 355). Bc for, instance the system of nomothesia was. introduced
Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary. The term democracy first appeared in ancient Greek political and philosophical thought in the city-state of Athens during classical antiquity. Led by Cleisthenes, Athenians established what is generally held as the first democracy in 508–507 BC.
In 510 BC Cleisthenes introduced profound reforms which made democracy exist as a system of government for the first time in the world. The main ideas of Cleisthenes's reforms were: 1  1. Replacement of division into tribes, fraternities and families with a territorial division. Athens – cradle of democracy. Cradle of democracy is Athens, ancient Greek city-state, situated in beautiful part of Peloponnese, in Attica. Athens owe the first penal and civil law code to Draco.
Ancient Greece-particularly Athens-was where democracy was first introduced. All the male citizens of Athens could vote for their leaders. Although this did not include wo … men or slaves, this was the bulk of the male population of the city. The word democracy, in fact, comes from Greek: Demos meaning people and kratia being the word for government.
Democracy can be traced back from the present day to classical Athens in the 6th century B.C.E. Democracy is a type of political system, or a system of decision-making within an institution, organization, etc., in which all members have the equal share to power. In modern representative democracy, this formal equality is embodied primarily in the right to vote. The Athenian democracy of Cleisthenes and Pericles was based on freedom, through the reforms of Solon, and equality (isonomia), introduced by Cleisthenes and later expanded by Ephialtes and Pericles. To preserve these principles, the Athenians used lot for selecting officials.
Confidence votes 1. Ancient Greece-particularly Athens-was where democracy was first introduced. All the male citizens of Athens could vote for their leaders. Although this did not include women or slaves, this was the bulk of the male population of the city