Lemongrass essential oil comes from none other than lemongrass which can be found in India and parts of Guatemala in a couple different varieties. The plant itself is a tall breed of grass, sometimes growing as high as 4 feet. Characteristics of Lemongrass Essential Oil. The essential oil of the lemongrass plant is characterized by its yellow color and watery consistency compared to other oils. As the name suggests, the oil and the plant itself have an aroma that can easily be described as citrus or lemony in nature.
LEMONGRASS Overview Information. Lemongrass is a plant. The leaves and the oil are used to make medicine. Lemongrass is used for treating digestive tract spasms, stomachache, high blood pressure, convulsions, pain, vomiting, cough, achy joints (rheumatism), fever, the common cold, and exhaustion. It is also used to kill germs and as a mild astringent. Some people apply lemongrass and its essential oil directly to the skin for headache, stomachache, abdominal pain, and muscle pain. By inhalation, the essential oil of lemongrass is used as aromatherapy for
The lemongrass can be used fresh or dried and sometimes it takes a powder form. The taste of lemongrass is citrussy. Although it’s most commonly used in cooking, lemongrass is also used for different purpose. Lemongrass is cultivated also for its fragrance. Lemongrass is commonly used to extract its oil and used for perfumes. Lemongrass does not flower but it’s the leaves that are being used for its different purpose. Lemongrass leaves grow up to a meter and this is what’s being used and there’s no problem with the supply as they are widely cultivated in Asia. 
There are a myriad of benefits that are associated with lemongrass essential oil. Aside from being an effective insect repellent, the oil has uses in personal care as well. Lemongrass essential oil is sometimes used in shampoo to help add shine and luster to dull, damaged hair. Characteristics of Lemongrass Essential Oil. The essential oil of the lemongrass plant is characterized by its yellow color and watery consistency compared to other oils. As the name suggests, the oil and the plant itself have an aroma that can easily be described as citrus or lemony in nature.
What would a lemongrass vingaigrette taste like? I know it's often in Thai, Indian, Malaysian dishes but I really just need to know the flavor that it is similar to not the history behind it. This Site Might Help You. RE: What does lemongrass taste like? What would a lemongrass vingaigrette taste like? I know it&#39;s often in Thai, Indian, Malaysian dishes but I really just need to know the flavor that it is similar to not the history behind it.
Fresh, fragrant and flavoursome, lemongrass adds body and a touch of the exotic to meals without overpowering or dominating the flavour profile of a dish. It marries with garlic, galangal, shallots, turmeric, ginger, chicken, pork, fish and chilli. Lemongrass is also enjoyed as a tea throughout the world. The lemongrass stalk is too tough to eat on its own so has to be finely crushed or chopped.
Like kaffir lime leaves and other Southeast Asian spices, lemongrass has no substitute. It has a distinctly warm, lemon aroma, but not the sour taste of the fruit. The citrus flavor of lemongrass instead is slightly sweet, and has the familiar, but milder, bite of ginger. 
Report Abuse. lemon grass is light with a hint of a ginger taste, obviously has a faint lemon taste as well, the vinaigrette will add an acidic flavor should be slightly salty with a hint of sweetness. This Site Might Help You. RE: What does lemongrass taste like? What would a lemongrass vingaigrette taste like? I know it&#39;s often in Thai, Indian, Malaysian dishes but I really just need to know the flavor that it is similar to not the history behind it.
When it comes to Asian cuisine, however, lemongrass is the way to go. In Thai soups and stews and chicken and fish dishes, lemongrass offers a distinguishable citrus flavor without the bitterness or acidity found in lemons. Lemongrass also has the unique ability to balance the spiciness of chiles. The lemongrass told a riveting tale, with its lemon yet orange-blossom-like scent, grassy quality, and hint of spiciness, similar to ginger. Visually, lemon appeared more desirable, with its sunny hue and juicy flesh, but to my amazement, its scent fell flat when compared to the lemongrass.