If your vehicle is SORN or has no road tax license then we will still buy your car. As the vehicle cannot be driven on a public road then you can either arrange to deliver the vehicle to one of our many branches throughout the UK (please telephone our call centre to arrange on 0843 6450000). When it comes to selling a car, for the best possible price your car would have a valid MOT certificate and some remaining road tax. We understand that you may wish to sell your car very quickly and that you might not have the time or money to arrange a suitable MOT test or even update your road tax.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. No grey area here at all-the only time your car can be on a road whether parked or in use without an MOT is to be driven to and from a booked MOT test by the shortest route-no more to it than that. Best Answer: Most of the answers on here are going to be no, they're all wrong. At the time of writing, it is NOT an offence to park a car on a road without an MOT but it is an offence to USE one. As from April it will also have to be insured as well as taxed if you wish to keep it on the road
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Most of the answers on here are going to be no, they're all wrong. At the time of writing, it is NOT an offence to park a car on a road without an MOT but it is an offence to USE one. As from April it will also have to be insured as well as taxed if you wish to keep it on the road
This can be found on the V5C registration certificate. The maximum fee for a duplicate certificate for a car is £10. Yes, you are still able to sell your car to us, regardless of the tax situation on your vehicle. To use or to keep your vehicle on a public road then it must have up to date road tax. When it comes to selling a car, for the best possible price your car would have a valid MOT certificate and some remaining road tax. We understand that you may wish to sell your car very quickly and that you might not have the time or money to arrange a suitable MOT test or even update your road tax.
If you are caught driving a vehicle without insurance on a road or in a public area, the police can police can issue you with a fixed penalty of £300 and 6 penalty points on your driving licence. 
If your vehicle doesn't have an MOT you can drive it to or from a pre-arranged MOT or to or from a pre-arranged appointment to have defects remedied that were discovered on a previous test. You can drive your vehicle on a road without road tax in these circumstances. 
The Road Traffic Act states that it's an offence to USE a vehicle on a road without insurance, there are also a few exceptions to that. Many people misunderstand the law and don't realise much of it has exceptions and exemptions built-in due to wording, the crucial word in this case being 'use'. You can potentially be disqualified from driving for a while too. Although you are not legally obliged to insure vehicles that are currently off the road and being kept in private garages or on private land, you should make sure that your car is insured if it is being kept on a public road.
To drive on a public road, a car must be taxed, insured and have a valid MOT. An exception to this however is if you are driving your vehicle to a pre-booked MOT test. This must be a direct route and to your nearest garage that provides MOT tests. 
If you have lost your MOT certificate and you would like to sell your car to us, it would be worth you replacing the document. You can get a duplicate test certificate from any MOT test station. You will need to provide the registration mark and the original MOT test number, or V5C document reference number. When it comes to selling a car, for the best possible price your car would have a valid MOT certificate and some remaining road tax. We understand that you may wish to sell your car very quickly and that you might not have the time or money to arrange a suitable MOT test or even update your road tax.