Giardiasis is an intestinal infection of man and animals caused by a protozoan parasite Giardia intestinalis (also known as Giardia lamblia). Giardia is a simple one-celled parasitic species; it is not a worm, bacteria or virus. The parasite occurs worldwide and is a common cause of Traveler's Diarrhea in people. 
Giardia is the name of a parasite that is scientifically known as Giardia lamblia. This parasite causes a contagious disease, called giardiasis, by infecting the intestinal tract of humans, resulting in nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and other gastrointestinal symptoms. Most commonly, people become infected with giardia from drinking untreated, contaminated water from streams, lakes or ponds. Once a person is infected, the parasite lives in the intestines and is passed in the stool of the infected person.
1 Giardiasis is the name of the disease caused by Giardia lamblia parasites that infect the small bowel. 2  Giardiasis is caused by Giardialamblia parasites that damage the small intestine; Giardia lamblia forms cysts are transmitted to humans in contaminated water or food and by person-to-person contact. 
Giardia spreads among humans through contaminated food and water. Most commonly, people become infected with giardia from drinking untreated, contaminated water from streams, lakes or ponds. Once a person is infected, the parasite lives in the intestines and is passed in the stool of the infected person.
Cysts of Giardia are present in the feces of infected persons. Thus, the infection is spread from person to person by contamination of food with feces, or by direct fecal-oral contamination. Cysts also survive in water, for example in fresh water lakes and streams. Giardia lamblia exists in two forms, an active form called a trophozoite, and an inactive form called a cyst. The active trophozoite attaches to the lining of the small intestine with a sucker and is responsible for causing the signs and symptoms of giardiasis.
Giardia is a microscopic parasite that causes the diarrheal illness known as giardiasis. Giardia (also known as Giardia intestinalis, Giardia lamblia, or Giardia duodenalis) is found on surfaces or in soil, food, or water that has been contaminated with feces (poop) from infected humans or animals. 
Giardia in Humans. Giardia is a microscopic parasite responsible for the diarrhea-related illness giardiasis. Also known as Giardia intestinalis or Giardia lamblia, this organism begins to multiply within the intestines after a person becomes infected. (For more details on symptoms of giardiasis, treatment options, and different ways in which humans can become infected with this parasite, click Giardia.).
Giardiasis is an intestinal infection of man and animals cased by a protozoan parasite Giardia intestinalis (also known as Giardia lamblia) . Giardia is a simple one-celled parasitic species; it is not a worm, bacteria or virus. The parasite occurs worldwide and is a common cause of Traveler's Diarrhea in people. Outdoor enthusiasts who inadvertently consume contaminated water may develop beaver fever, which is another name for giardiasis in people. 
As a result, giardiasis is the most common cause of water-borne, parasitic illness in the U.S.. Domestic mammals (for example, dogs, cats, calves) and wild mammals (for example, beavers) can become infected with Giardia; however, it is not clear how often domestic or wild mammals transmit giardiasis to humans. Giardia lamblia exists in two forms, an active form called a trophozoite, and an inactive form called a cyst. The active trophozoite attaches to the lining of the small intestine with a sucker and is responsible for causing the signs and symptoms of giardiasis.
The giardia organism inhabits the digestive tract of a wide variety of domestic and wild animal species, as well as humans. It is the most common pathogenic parasitic infection in humans worldwide; in 2013, there were about 280 million people worldwide with symptomatic giardiasis. 