Some truckers turn the squelch on a CB radio all the way off, turn the RF gain on a CB radio all the way on, then dial back the RF gain control until almost all the noise disappears. That eliminates the choppy signals that a squelched radio produces, but it still allows the distant signals to come in. Cobra 19 DXIV. A small mobile radio that includes gain is the inexpensive Cobra 19 DXIV, 40-channel compact CB radio. It's a basic 40 channel radio with limited features, but to its credit, one of those is RF gain.
Radio Frequency, or RF, is the mode of communication that is used by most radio devices, from deep space communication networks to cell phones. CB radios use RF transceivers. Some TV remote controls use RF. Cordless phones use RF. A standard radio is the most obvious receiver of radio signals. RF is used to send signals to remote control toys. Wireless routers use RF technology.
For other uses, see RF (disambiguation) . Radio frequency (RF): any of the electromagnetic wave frequencies that lie in the range extending from around 7003300000000000000♠3 kHz to 7011300000000000000♠300 GHz, which include those frequencies used for communications or radar signals. 1 The energy in an RF current can radiate off a conductor into space as electromagnetic waves (radio waves); this is the basis of radio technology. 2  RF current does not penetrate deeply into electrical conductors but tends to flow along their surfaces; this is known as the skin effect.
Introduction. This document defines radio frequency (RF) power levels and the most common measure, the decibel (dB). This information can be very useful when you troubleshoot intermittent connectivity
Although radio frequency is a rate of oscillation, the term radio frequency or its abbreviation RF are used as a synonym for radio – i.e., to describe the use of wireless communication, as opposed to communication via electric wires. 1 The energy in an RF current can radiate off a conductor into space as electromagnetic waves (radio waves); this is the basis of radio technology. 2  RF current does not penetrate deeply into electrical conductors but tends to flow along their surfaces; this is known as the skin effect.
Applications [edit]. The basic applications of the RF power amplifier include driving to another high power source, driving a transmitting antenna and exciting microwave cavity resonators. Among these applications, driving transmitter antennas is most well known. It is usually optimized to have high efficiency, high output Power(P1dB) compression, good return loss on the input and output, good gain, and optimum heat dissipation. RF amplifiers formerly were all made used vacuum tubes (called valves in some English-speaking countries).
A standing wave is a distributionof RF voltage that rises and falls along the line. This canstress the line because the voltage peaks for a given power arehigher than the voltage on a matched line and the line couldarc over at these voltage maxima. A standing wave of currentalso exists along the line. In a radio station, power is generated bya transmitter, usually housed comfortably in a shack, and theRF power is led to the (usually) remote antenna by a cable, ortransmission line, which in short wave stations can be severalwavelengths long.
Tubes are still used for exceptionally high-power transmissions (see Valve RF amplifier). Many modern RF amplifiers of over 1000 Watts are solid state using various classes, class A (in various forms, Class AB, AB1, etc.), class B, class C and class E. It is usually optimized to have high efficiency, high output Power(P1dB) compression, good return loss on the input and output, good gain, and optimum heat dissipation. RF amplifiers formerly were all made used vacuum tubes (called valves in some English-speaking countries).