Endoplasmic Reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum is a multifold membranous structure within eukaryotic cells which plays a major role in the synthesis of the complex molecules required by the cell and the organism as a whole. The ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum manufacture proteins which enter the channels of the endoplasmic reticulum and move to places where they can create pockets.
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: rough endoplasmic reticulum (rough ER) and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth ER). Both types are present in plant and animal cells. The two types of ER are separate entities and are not joined together. Rough ER is found throughout the cell but the density is higher near the nucleus and the Golgi apparatus. Ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum are called ‘membrane bound’ and are responsible for the assembly of many proteins. This process is called translation. Certain cells of the pancreas and digestive tract produce a high volume of protein as enzymes
This network of sacs, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), often makes up more than 10 percent of a cell's total volume. The endoplasmic reticulum comes in two types: Rough ER is covered with ribosomes and prepares newly made proteins; smooth ER specializes in making lipids and breaking down toxic molecules. Take a closer look, and you'll see that the sacs are covered with bumps about 2 inches wide. 
Organ systems which produce many proteins have cells with a large amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum plays a major role in synthesizing lipids by means of enzymes embedded in these smooth membranes. The ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum manufacture proteins which enter the channels of the endoplasmic reticulum and move to places where they can create pockets.
The surface of rough endoplasmic reticulum is covered with ribosomes, giving it a bumpy appearance when viewed through the microscope. This type of endoplasmic reticulum is involved mainly with the production and processing of proteins that will be exported, or secreted, from the cell. The Endoplasmic Reticulum The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a network of flattened sacs and branching tubules that extends throughout the cytoplasm in plant and animal cells.
Examples of protein synthesis by the rough endoplasmic reticulum are the proteins produced in secretory cells. These include the digestive enzymes produced in the stomach and the protein hormones like insulin produced in the pancreas. The ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum manufacture proteins which enter the channels of the endoplasmic reticulum and move to places where they can create pockets.
The function of the endoplasmic reticulum is to transport chemicals between and within cells. It also provides a large surface area for the organization of chemical reactions and synthesis. Two patterns are found in the cell, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum packages proteins for transport, synthesizes membrane phosolipids, and releases calcium
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) - smooth and rough. The rough kind is covered with ribosomes on its outer surface and is involved in protein processing and sorting. The smooth ER is not associated with ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism. See Figure 10.1. The rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) which is continuous with the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope plays an important role in the sorting of proteins destined for various other locations in the cell, like the Golgi apparatus, the lysosomes and the plasma membrane.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membrane-enclosed tubules and sacs, called cisternae. This network extends from the nuclear envelope throughout the cytoplasm (remember that the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope is continuous with the rough endoplasmic reticulum). The rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) which is continuous with the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope plays an important role in the sorting of proteins destined for various other locations in the cell, like the Golgi apparatus, the lysosomes and the plasma membrane.