Many people considering the procedure ask this question. On average, LASIK eye surgery is considered to be a permanent way to reshape your cornea and thus correct your vision. That’s fairly incredible, given the procedure takes roughly 30 minutes total. LASIK eye surgery was approved in Canada in the early 1990s and in the United States shortly thereafter. Therefore, it has been around commercially for roughly 25 years.
Just as you may have had minor changes in your glasses prescription over time, you may have slight changes in your vision over time after laser eye surgery. Because of these natural changes, a person may need an enhancement, or a touch-up procedure, after LASIK eye surgery. LASIK eye surgery was approved in Canada in the early 1990s and in the United States shortly thereafter. Therefore, it has been around commercially for roughly 25 years.
LASIK or Lasik (laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis), commonly referred to as laser eye surgery or laser vision correction, is a type of refractive surgery for the correction of myopia, hyperopia, and astigmatism. 
Researchers in the UK monitored the vision of 46 PRK patients for a period of 18 years. Prior to surgery, all patients were nearsighted, with an average eyeglass prescription of -4.86 D (range: -2.75 to -7.37 D). More Info. Patients who were under age 40 at the time of their LASIK procedure had an average regression of -0.54 D during the 18-year follow-up period. Those who were over age 40 when they underwent LASIK had an average regression of only -0.05 D. There also was a significant difference when patients were sorted by sex
Procedure. LASIK eye surgery typically takes under 10 minutes, according to WebMD. It is performed under local anesthesia. There are various types of laser technology, but the most widely used type cuts a thin flap on the cornea, which is peeled back so that its underlying tissue can be removed or reshaped by the laser. Functions. Vision impairment conditions have to do with how light focuses on the retina of the eye, which is determined by the shape of the cornea. The cornea is the window in the front of the eye, which gives it the majority of its focusing power.
Since the correction in laser vision correction surgery must be made for either short or long sight, problems with accommodation will continue, necessitating the need for glasses at least some of the time. The only way to avoid glasses or contact lenses entirely is through a procedure called monovision. An average pair of glasses comes in the cheapest at around £40. If looked after properly they can last, but most people have at least 2 pairs at a time and change them every 2 years. So for a lens free life in your 20’s and 30’s, and armed with all the facts, laser eye surgery does seem worth it.
The LASIK procedure has a remarkable success rate, with 96% of patients achieving 20/20 vision or better, according to the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. 1  LASIK Eye Surgery Costs Explained. 2  Laser Eye Procedures-Listed. 3  Best LASIK Surgery Candidates. In some cases, patients may still need to wear glasses or contact lenses following LASIK eye surgery, however the post-operative prescription and visual acuity level will typically be much lower than before LASIK. The surgery has an excellent safety record, but like any surgery post-operative complications can occur.
Recovery Time. Recovery time after laser eye surgery is rapid, according to WebMD. Prescription eye drops are given to prevent infection and keep the eyes moist during the healing time. The eyes will feel dry and the patient will likely have blurry vision for one to two days. Functions. Vision impairment conditions have to do with how light focuses on the retina of the eye, which is determined by the shape of the cornea. The cornea is the window in the front of the eye, which gives it the majority of its focusing power.
LASIK eye surgery typically does not correct the need for reading glasses. There is an option of having monovision, which produces the ability to read close-up and far away. Some people test monovision eye surgery by using monovision contact lenses and find they don’t like this type of vision correction. LASIK eye surgery was approved in Canada in the early 1990s and in the United States shortly thereafter. Therefore, it has been around commercially for roughly 25 years.