Cladding board selection. A wide variety of timber cladding products are available for selection, including solid timber boards in a range of profiles and species, timber shingles or shakes, along with various types of plywood and exterior grade hardboard in plain or surface textured sheets or planks. Through specification, planning, design and finishing processes, timber cladding not only creates a building of superior strength, acoustic and thermal performance but also creates a place of beauty, style and natural appeal.
On-site, under cover storage of timber cladding, should be on bearers spaced at no more than 900mm centres. If outside storage cannot be avoided timber stacks should be at least 150mm clear of the ground and covered with a waterproof sheet, kept just clear of the ground to allow ventilation under the stack. Through specification, planning, design and finishing processes, timber cladding not only creates a building of superior strength, acoustic and thermal performance but also creates a place of beauty, style and natural appeal.
External Facade. Timber cladding forms the external facade of buildings. It acts as a rainscreen cladding which is the outer wall of a double wall construction. The inner wall is separated by a cavity that is well ventilated so that any moisture that penetrates the cladding gets evaporated or drains away. Construction. Cladding is laid in a number of different ways according to the aesthetics required for the building. Boards are orientated vertically, horizontally or diagonally. Thin pieces of wood called battens are fixed to the inner wall as support for the cladding.
Timber cladding is an environmentally friendly method that is used to clad buildings. Boards or planks of wood are used to form the exterior of a building. Traditionally, timber cladding was synonymous with agricultural buildings such as barns, and used rough cut, untreated planks of wood as the main building material. With the advancement of technology and design, this cladding has evolved into a sophisticated option. Construction. Cladding is laid in a number of different ways according to the aesthetics required for the building. Boards are orientated vertically, horizontally or diagonally. Thin pieces of wood called battens are fixed to the inner wall as support for the cladding.
Timber cladding offers designers a unique combination of practical, aesthetic and environmental advantages: Practical advantages include: 1  It’s a lightweight material offering protective and decorative design functions. 2  Dry installation means external envelope is quicker to install. 1 It’s a lightweight material offering protective and decorative design functions. 2  Dry installation means external envelope is quicker to install. 3  Elimination of heavy masonry outer walls reduces size and cost of foundations. 4  Cladding panels may be factory pre-fabricated complete with insulation and breather membrane.
Plywood cladding offers a stylish exterior for all building types. Exterior plywood cladding is manufactured to AS 2271, is intended for use in non-structural applications and comes in a wide variety of face veneer grades that may be profiled, grooved, plain faced or pre-surfaced with resins, plastics or metal. Through specification, planning, design and finishing processes, timber cladding not only creates a building of superior strength, acoustic and thermal performance but also creates a place of beauty, style and natural appeal.
0. Shiplap is the traditional and ever popular timber cladding profile for use in childrens playhouses and other garden buildings. Shiplap features smooth planed and fully interlocking tongued and grooved timber boarding. The design ensures that rainwater drains quickly and the timber dries quickly. 5 Answers. 0. Shiplap is the traditional and ever popular cladding profile for use in garden offices and garden rooms. Shiplap features smooth planed and fully interlocking tongued and grooved
Increasingly timber is being specified as a rainscreen cladding system for external walls. It is commonly thought of as a sustainable option due to being renewable, recyclable, biodegradable and having minimal embodied energy. Often when used outside, timber can deteriorate quickly. The main cause of this is usually moisture. As the moisture content of timber used externally for cladding often exceeds 20 per cent, it may need to be treated with a preservative; this can outweigh the sustainability benefits of the material.
The design requirements for timber clad buildings are generally the same regardless of the particular cladding material used. Timber cladding will perform to its best in building styles where it is sheltered from the weather by wide eaves and verandahs. Through specification, planning, design and finishing processes, timber cladding not only creates a building of superior strength, acoustic and thermal performance but also creates a place of beauty, style and natural appeal.