The Diary was offered without comment and was largely motivated by the realization that many of his supporters did not actually know what Sanders position was on gun control. The responses in the comments section made me think this could be a useful practice for other issues as well. Attacks on Bernie for his positions on Israel and (0+ / 0-). Palestine have allegedly been based solely on antisemitism. For instance, there was that question on NPR about whether or not he was a dual citizen.
Bernie's been remarkably consistent on Israel for 27 years, but that may not be enough for the left. Bernie did not vote for the Senate resolution 498 which expressed support for Israel as it defends itself against unprovoked rocket attacks. Attacks on Bernie for his positions on Israel and (0+ / 0-). Palestine have allegedly been based solely on antisemitism. For instance, there was that question on NPR about whether or not he was a dual citizen.
Sanders conceded that Israel had “overreacted” by striking United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees-run schools, which even the U.N. itself has admitted were being used by Hamas militants as missile depots. Bernie Sanders is Vichy France. Those in the audience are Nazis. Barky’s been saying “F*** Israel!!” since he first slimed into office and blamed Israel building apartments in Jerusalem suburbs for all the ills in the world … and eventually Barky and his junta couldn’t even utter the name “Jerusalem”, though they had little problem with shouting “Al Quds”.
Larry Sanders never visited Bernie Sanders on the kibbutz, but he said that it was a formative experience for his brother. “I think the kibbutz reinforced Bernie’s view that people can run things for themselves,” Larry Sanders wrote me in an email. “They don’t need a long chain of bosses. With Sanders so often in the news in America and Israel, I thought a kibbutz would inevitably come forward to claim him as its own. Each kibbutz has a distinct history, often painstakingly recorded by a member.
Both brothers decided to spend their time in Israel living and working on kibbutzim. Bernie arrived in Israel first and was there for six months total; Larry showed up four months after Bernie’s arrival and didn’t leave until 1967. The Sanders brothers’ time in Israel overlapped by only two months and because they lived on separate kibbutzim they have only been able to exchange stories from their experiences as kibbutzniks later in their lives. Larry recalled being impressed with his younger brother’s tales of leadership on his kibbutz.
To read the actual language, go to State.gov. An interview with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) stopped in its tracks on Wednesday when NPR’s Diane Rehm repeatedly pressed the Democratic presidential candidate whether he was a citizen of Israel. 
Rehm later issued an apology: On today's show I made a mistake, she wrote. Rather than asking senator and presidential candidate Bernie Sanders whether he had dual U.S./Israeli citizenship, as I had read in a comment on Facebook, I stated it as fact. He corrected me, saying he did not know where the question came from. I apologized immediately. 
Sometime in the late 1970s, after he'd had a kid, divorced his college sweetheart, lost four elections for statewide offices, and been evicted from his home on Maple Street in Burlington, Vermont, Bernie Sanders moved in with a friend named Richard Sugarman. 
The July 8 ITIC report also divulged why Hamas launched its first rocket fire at Israel in more than 19 months on July 7: On that night Israeli forces had bombed and killed 6 Hamas members in Gaza. The ITIC report includes a picture of the six Hamas members. He also participated in the National Lawyers Guild delegation to Gaza after Operation Cast Lead in February 2009 and contributed to its report, Onslaught: Israel’s Attack on Gaza and the Rule of Law. James Marc Leas is a patent attorney and a past co-chair of the National Lawyers Guild Palestine Subcommittee.