Most people don t realize that ruby and sapphire are both gems of the mineral corundum. Both of these gems have the same chemical composition and the same mineral structure. Trace amounts of impurities determine if a gem corundum will be a brilliant red ruby or a beautiful blue sapphire.
Beryl, the mineral of which emerald is a variety, has a chemical composition of Be 3 Al 2 (SiO 3) 6. When pure, beryl is colorless and known as goshenite.. Trace amounts of chromium or vanadium in the mineral cause it to develop a green color.
Corundum is best known for its gem varieties, Ruby and Sapphire. Ruby and Sapphire are scientifically the same mineral, but just differ in color. Ruby is the red variety, and Sapphire is the variety that encompasses all other colors, although the most popular and valued color of Sapphire is blue.
The table lists several common gemstones, their chemical compositions, colors, and the origins of these colors. A ruby is a crystal of alumina, aluminum oxide, containing a trace of chromium(III) ions replacing some of the aluminum ions.
Ruby and sapphire are extremely popular gemstones. Virtually every jewelry store that features colored gemstones in jewelry will have a generous portion of their display dedicated to ruby and sapphire items. Ruby is the most popular red gemstone, and sapphire is the most popular blue gemstone.
Sapphire. - Sapphire refers to all gem varieties of Corundum, excluding the red variety of Corundum which is classified as Ruby. In the gem trade, it refers specifically to the blue gem variety of Corundum, unless a color is mentioned as a prefix to sapphire (i.e. Green Sapphire).
Ruby is distinguished for its bright red color, being the most famed and fabled red gemstone. Beside for its bright color, it is a most desirable gem due to its hardness, durability, luster, and rarity. Transparent rubies of large sizes are even rarer than Diamond s. Ruby is the red variety of the mineral Corundum. Sapphire, the other gem variety of Corundum, encompasses all colors of Corundum aside from red. In essence, Ruby is a red Sapphire, since Ruby and Sapphire are identical in all properties except for color.
Related: Corundum: Mineral Summary. Some gem-quality corundum contains trace amounts of chromium. A very small amount of chromium gives corundum a pink color. Larger amounts of chromium increase the color saturation of the stone and produce a gem with a deeper red color.