Nervous System: Nervous System (Source: TheEmirr/Wikipedia). Nervous system is the chief controlling and coordinating system of the body. It controls and regulates all activities of the body, whether voluntary or involuntary, and adjusts the individual (organism) to the given surroundings. This is based on the special properties of sensitivity, conductivity and responsiveness of the nervous system. 
The body has two main systems for coordinating and regulating its activities. One is the nervous system, which consists of the brain, spinal cord, and a network of nerves that branch throughout the body. The other system is the endocrine system. The endocrine system consists of different endocrine glands. - explain the role of hormones in regulating metabolism, growth, and other body processes. - explain how the nervous and endocrine systems interact. - describe the role of the brain's hypothalamus in main taining the right levels of hormones in the body.
1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 3  The brain and the nerv…. This is  called thermoregulation.   In co … njunction with the integumentary system, the nervous  (hypothalamus), cardiovascular (superficial vessels) and musclular  systems (skeletal muscles) also play a role.   Core body temp is too cool    Skin feels cold - brain is alerted to need for additional  clothing
1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 3  The brain and the nerv…. 1 For most, though, these muscles rest below the surface of the skin and often below a layer of fat. 2  Because of this, when most 3  …. Physical Education 101: Fun and Healthy Outdoor Activities for Kids Pediatricians and childhood experts agree on the importance of physical education for kids.
Graphics illustrate how the body has two main systems for coordinating and regulating its activities: the nervous system and the endocrine system. The video introduces endocrine glands and the hormones they secrete. It describes how hormones are chemical messengers that communicate with different parts of the body. - explain the role of hormones in regulating metabolism, growth, and other body processes. - explain how the nervous and endocrine systems interact. - describe the role of the brain's hypothalamus in main taining the right levels of hormones in the body.
1 Receptors in muscles provide the brain with information about body position and movement. 2  The brain controls the contraction of skeletal muscle. 3  The nervous system regulates the speed at which food moves through the digestive tract. Although each system has specific functions, they are all interconnected and dependent on one another. The nervous system controls various organs of the body directly. The brain also receives information from many organs of the body and adjusts signals to these organs to maintain proper functioning.
Functions of the Endocrine System. The Endocrine system (along with the nervous system) controls and regulates the complex activities of the body. The Endocrine system regulates the activities of the body by secreting complex chemical substances (hormones) into the blood stream. These secretions come from a variety of glands which control various organs of the body. The key functions are: 1  To regulate the metabolic functions of the body. Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue.
1 All these activities are low impact because…. 2  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 3  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 4  The brain and the nerv…. This is  called thermoregulation.   In co … njunction with the integumentary system, the nervous  (hypothalamus), cardiovascular (superficial vessels) and musclular  systems (skeletal muscles) also play a role.   Core body temp is too cool    Skin feels cold - brain is alerted to need for additional  clothing
The. nervous system. is just one of the control systems in the body. The. endocrine system. is the other. Of the two, the nervous system is by far the more rapid acting & complex. Nervous cells communicate by means of electrochemical signals, which are rapid & specific. , usually causing almost immediate responses. 