Your Cisco IOS software release may not support all of the features documented in this module. To reach links to specific feature documentation in this module and to see a list of the releases in which each feature is supported, use the Feature Information for Configuring NHRP section. When BGP discovers a BGP next hop and enters this BGP route into the routing table, an NHRP request is sent to the BGP next hop. When an NHRP reply is received, a subsequent route is put in the NHRP cache that directly corresponds
Since DMVPN has been added to the CCIE v5 BluePrint (http://www.cisco.com/web/learning/exams/docs/ccieRS_Lab5.pdf) I figured that now was just as good of a time as any to write this blog. DMVPN stands for Dynamic Multipoint VPN and it is an effective solution for dynamic secure overlay networks. DMVPN is combination of the following technologies: 1  Multipoint GRE (mGRE). 2  Next-Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP). 3  Dynamic Routing Protocol (EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP). 
Description: Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP): Protocol used by routers to dynamically discover the MAC address of other routers and hosts connected to an NBMA network.
Dynamic Multipoint VPN (DMVPN) is Cisco’s answer to the increasing demands of enterprise companies to be able to connect branch offices with head offices and between each other while keeping costs low, minimising configuration complexity and increasing flexibility. tunnel key 1. It is important to note that mGRE interfaces do not have a tunnel destination. Because mGRE tunnels do not have a tunnel destination defined, they cannot be used alone. NHRP fills this gap by telling mGRE where to send the packets.
(July 2012). Dynamic Multipoint Virtual Private Network (DMVPN) is a dynamic tunneling form of a virtual private network (VPN) supported on Cisco IOS-based routers, Huawei AR G3 routers and USG firewalls, and on Unix-like operating systems. 
The purpose of this module is to describe how to configure the Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP) for use in a nonbroadcast multiaccess (NBMA) network. NHRP is an Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)-like protocol that dynamically maps nonbroadcast multiaccess (NBMA) network. When BGP discovers a BGP next hop and enters this BGP route into the routing table, an NHRP request is sent to the BGP next hop. When an NHRP reply is received, a subsequent route is put in the NHRP cache that directly corresponds
Most of these technologies are familiar to networking professionals, except for the NHRP protocol. NHRP is a resolution protocol that behaves like ARP. In an NHRP environment, there are two roles, the NHS (next-hop server) and the NHC (next-hop client). DMVPN (dynamic multipoint virtual private network) is a design approach that allows full mesh connectivity with the use of multipoint GRE tunnels. DMVPN itself is not a protocol but rather it is a design approach that consists of the following technologies: 1  NHRP (next-hop resolution protocol). 2  mGRE(multipoint GRE).
Introduction. DMVPN (Dynamic Multipoint Virtual Private Network) is a feature within the Cisco IOS based router family which provides the ability to dynamically build IPSEC tunneling between peers based on an evolved iteration of hub and spoke tunneling. DMVPN uses a combination of the following technologies :
The NHRP network ID is used to define the NHRP domain for an NHRP interface and differentiate between multiple NHRP domains or networks, when two or more NHRP domains (GRE tunnel interfaces) are available on the same NHRP node (router). When BGP discovers a BGP next hop and enters this BGP route into the routing table, an NHRP request is sent to the BGP next hop. When an NHRP reply is received, a subsequent route is put in the NHRP cache that directly corresponds
Zabbix. vs. SecurActive Performance Vision. In a computer network, the Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP) is a protocol or method that can be used so that a computer sending data to another computer can learn the most direct route (the fewest number of hop s) to the receiving computer.