The name Havilah in the Bible. The name Havilah is assigned three different times in the Bible: 1  It is first mentioned as a land that contains both gold and the river Pishon, one of four rivers of Eden (Genesis 2:11). 2  This land is probably named in retrospect, as the territory of one of the two human Havilahs. For a meaning of the name Havilah, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads Circle, and Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names has Bringing Fort, or Trembling (with pain). BDB Theological Dictionary does not translate but endorses an etymology from חול. | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |.
Havilah meaning. For a meaning of the name Havilah, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads Circle, and Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names has Bringing Fort, or Trembling (with pain). BDB Theological Dictionary does not translate but endorses an etymology from חול. | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |.
Meanings and history of the name Havilah: | Edit. a Hebrew name meaning circle, from the root khul which can mean twist, dance, or writhe.. mentioned in the old testament as a gold-bearing region, and also the name of a couple of men who are really only mentioned as being in someone's family. They say the origin of the name is biblical. I guess that shows you that names can have a lot of meanings! I didn't even know my name meant that. My name is Havilah, it is a Hebrew name. It has several different meanings, but the most common are a bundle of, the one that experiences great pain and brings forth, And a stretch of sand/gold.
My name is Havilah, and the name is Hebrew. Havilah is also in the bible. It is not a common name in america, where I live. My name means, Where there is Gold, or just Gold. The name can also be spelled Chavyilah. They say the origin of the name is biblical. I guess that shows you that names can have a lot of meanings! I didn't even know my name meant that. My name is Havilah, it is a Hebrew name. It has several different meanings, but the most common are a bundle of, the one that experiences great pain and brings forth, And a stretch of sand/gold.
Meaning of Havilah. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Havilah means-that suffers pain that brings forth.The name Havilah originated as an Israeli name. The name Havilah is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning-that suffers pain that brings forth. Origin-Israel
Havilah, a district in Arabia — Felix. It is uncertain whether the tribe gave its name to this region or derived its name from it, and whether it was originally a Cushite (Gen. 10:7) or a Joktanite tribe (10:29; compare 25:18), or whether there were both a Cushite and a Joktanite Havilah.
The name Havilah is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Havilah is: That suffers pain, that brings forth. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
[ 3 syll. ha-vi-lah, hav-il-ah ] The baby girl name Havilah is pronounced HH AE V-ih-Lah (English) †. Havilah is of Hebrew origin. Havilah is of the meaning 'from the stretch of sand'. Forms of Havilah include the names Havila, Havilea, Havili, Havilie, Havilla, Havillah, Havillea, Havilli, Havillie, and Havily. Havilah is not widely used as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. 