[ syll. sa-mar - (t)(h) , sam-a- rth ] The baby boy name Samarth is pronounced S AE M AA R-TH †. Samarth's language of origin is Sanskrit. The name Samarth means 'powerful'. A variant form of Samarth is the name Samarthe. Samarth is not popular as a baby boy name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Samarth include Samarthe, Cenehard, Cenhard, Cynehard, Cynhard, Sigenert, Siginert, Syginert, and Sygenert.
People with this name tend to be decisive and good with money. They try to have a balance between the physical and the spiritual worlds. They can often be a successful entrepeneur, and are often striving to reach ever higher goals and positions. 
This name is shared across persons, who are either Jain or Hindu by religion. Name Samarth belongs to rashi Kumbh (Aquarius) with dominant planet Saturn (Shani) and Nakshatra (stars) Sathabisham. Find qualities of Aquarius (Kumbh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Samarth or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kumbh (Aquarius) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Samrath, Samrithi.
Origin and meaning of Samarth. 5 5. The meaning of Samarth is  Tremendous . Its origin is  Sanskrit . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 2,023rd in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. Since 1996 Samarth was chosen 521 times as a name, 0 times for girls and 521 times for boys. Is your name Samarth? Take our 1 minute survey and tell us what it is like to be named Samarth.
Meaning of Indian name: Samarth. Meaning of the name Samarth is 'Lord Krishna'. Samarth is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Samarth is '8'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Samarth'. 
Swāmi Samarth Mahāraj more commonly Shri Swami Samarth Maharaj (also known as Akkalkot Swāmi Mahāraj) of Akkalkot (left the physical body in 1878) was a Bharatiya (Indian) Guru of the Dattatreya tradition (sampradaya), widely respected in indian states of Maharashtra, as well as in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. In the month of Chaitra (April–May) in 1878, the thirteenth day of the dark-half of the lunar month, Shri Swami died. His body was taken on a procession all around Akkalkot.
Meaning of name Samarth, Origin of name Samarth, Personality of name Samarth, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Samarth and adorable Baby boy Photos of Samarth. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Samarth is lucky! 
Name Samarth generally means Powerful or Lord Krishna, is of Indian origin, Name Samarth is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Find qualities of Aquarius (Kumbh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Samarth or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kumbh (Aquarius) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Samrath, Samrithi.
Samarth Ramdas Swami chose the village of Chafal for initiating this mission and started this work in 1566 (Shalivahana era), or 1644 AD. He installed a statue of Lord Ram and started celebrating the festival of 'Birth of Lord Ram' (Ram Janmotsava) with fanfare. Then Ram accepted him as his own disciple, giving him the name of Ramdas. At the age of 18 years, while he was standing on the podium during his marriage ceremony he heard the Brahmins chanting the wedding mantras which contain the word “Savadhan.