You can use chocolate chips for quick-and-dirty dipping; they’re meant to survive in the oven after all, so a few gentle zaps in the microwave won’t do much damage. Chips don’t contain enough cocoa butter to temper, so the melted chocolate will harden with a streaked or swirled appearance. 
You can use them to melt down for dipping, but because they hold their shape, many people tend to overheat them because they don’t look melted. Overheating chocolate causes it to bloom. When melt chocolate chips, it is best to add 1 Tbsp of vegetable oil per 12 oz. package of chocolate chips. Melt them down the same way you would a compound coating (using the 20 second rule). Stirring is key. Melt it for 20 seconds, and then be sure to stir. Don’t let the chocolate trick you. 
Yes, they have different types of chocolate chips, bars, and powders you can use for baking. They have regular milk chocolate, semi-sweet chocolate, dark chocolate, and unsweetened chocolate. These are all great choices for baking depending on what you are planning on making. It's easy to make a delicious glass of chocolate milk with Hershey's syrup. Combine one cup of milk with 3 tablespoons of Hershey's chocolate syrup, and stir well until it is combined. You can make hot chocolate by using warm or hot milk.
Hershey's has a large selection of ingredients that can be used for baking. These ingredients include semi-sweet morsels, dark chocolate morsels, sweetened chocolate baking bars, and unsweetened baking bars. They also have white chocolate pieces and natural unsweetened cocoa for baking purposes. It's easy to make a delicious glass of chocolate milk with Hershey's syrup. Combine one cup of milk with 3 tablespoons of Hershey's chocolate syrup, and stir well until it is combined. You can make hot chocolate by using warm or hot milk.
How to melt chocolate chips (and other baking chips) in a slow cooker and maintain a perfect melted consistency. Skip the photos-Go straight to the recipe. Skip the photos-Go straight to the recipe. 1  Put the baking chips (or other melting chocolate) in a bowl or jars and set them inside the slow cooker. Put baking chips (or other melting chocolate) in bowl(s) or jar(s) and set inside slow cooker. If using more than one, make sure there is a little space between jars/bowls.2. Add hot water to the slow cooker approx. half way up the sides of the
1 Put the baking chips (or other melting chocolate) in a bowl or jars and set them inside the slow cooker. 2  I used pint mason jars, because they are tall and narrow enough that I could fit several in my slow cooker at one time. 3  You can use wider mouth jars or any heat tolerant bowl that will fit inside your slow cooker. Put baking chips (or other melting chocolate) in bowl(s) or jar(s) and set inside slow cooker. If using more than one, make sure there is a little space between jars/bowls.2. Add hot water to the slow cooker approx. half way up the sides of the
Hershey's carries a wide range of gluten-free products to choose from. The Hershey's chocolate bar, as well as Kisses, are both gluten-free. You may also use Hershey's baking bars and chips for your gluten-free baking needs. However, it is still recommended to read product labels before making a purchase. It's easy to make a delicious glass of chocolate milk with Hershey's syrup. Combine one cup of milk with 3 tablespoons of Hershey's chocolate syrup, and stir well until it is combined. You can make hot chocolate by using warm or hot milk.
So many choices. You see morsels, baking squares and whole chocolate bars and this can be difficult to know which to buy as a substitution. If you are choosing chocolate morsels, also called chocolate chips, instead of semi-sweet baking squares, this is an easy substitution to make, if you keep in mind a few caveats. Since morsels have less cocoa butter than baking squares -- which makes the morsels more stable when heated -- you can use morsels in recipes that call for melted chocolate, but not as part of a batter. You can also use morsels in ganache, chocolate frosting, or in a simple chocolate dip for fondue. Pour the morsels into a microwave-safe bowl and heat on high for 45 seconds. Remove and stir. Continue to microwave for 10-second intervals until the morsels are smooth when stirred
I started using the Nestle White Morsels when they were on sale a few years ago and I had a ton of coupons. I'd already bought a ton of the regular milk chocolate chips and some of the Butterscotch Morsels so I decided to grab a few bags of the White Morsels to use in cookies. 