This week in our series on chain, we’re discussing cable and rolo chain. Cable chain, also called trace chain, and rolo chain, also called belcher chain, are all similar chain links that are found all over the jewelry world! In this picture, the left two chains are cable chains; the 3rd-from-left is a rolo chain; and the rightmost chain is a rounded cable chain. Next week, we’ll talk about curb chain, also called gourmette chain.
Sterling Silver Chain-Rollo. Interlocking links of the same dimension give this sterling silver chain a stylish, rounded look. Once you start using Rollo chain, you will want to incorporate it into all of your jewelry designs. All our bulk chain is sold by the foot. 
This rolo chain necklace is made of fine sterling silver, plated with rhodium, and stamped with a 925 quality mark. Chain measures 2mm in width, secured with a lobster claw clasp. A beautiful birthday or anniversary gift for her. This rolo chain necklace is made of fine sterling silver, plated with rhodium, and stamped with a 925 quality mark. Chain measures 1mm in width, secured with a spring ring clasp.
toggle clasp or a dangle charm for a small additional charge. You can have. a custom length silver rolo chain, silver rolo bracelet or anklet that's made to fit you! ... Rolo Chain-A rolo chain is made up of symmetrical links (usually round or oval) that are connected tog ether. (see full article on Jewelry Chain s) ... Rolo Chain: Symmetrical links are joined tog ether for a cohesive effect. 
Cable chain links are typically oval in shape, but may be round. The links are typically either made from round wire or flattened wire, but the link is always the same thickness around – which is what makes cable chain different from rolo chains. In this picture, the left two chains are cable chains; the 3rd-from-left is a rolo chain; and the rightmost chain is a rounded cable chain. Next week, we’ll talk about curb chain, also called gourmette chain.
Rolo chain is typically found in round symmetrical links, and may also be called belcher chain. Rolo chain is typically worn by itself, especially in bracelets and anklets, or as part of a wire jewelry design. Rolo chain llinks are typically made with half-round wire, meaning that the outside of the chain is rounded, but the inside is flat or even hollowed. In this picture, the left two chains are cable chains; the 3rd-from-left is a rolo chain; and the rightmost chain is a rounded cable chain. Next week, we’ll talk about curb chain, also called gourmette chain.
Rolo Chain (Rollo Chain). Popular rolo chain (also called rollo chain and belcher chain) works great for making jewelry. Choose sizes from 3.9mm to 11mm to meet your creative needs. Colors and platings include black chain (gunmetal chain), brass chain, copper chain, gold plated chain, silver plated chain, and more
Great variety of Silver Rollo Chains made by leading jewelers will satisfy the most demanding person. The prices will pleasantly surprise you. Best offer and the best quality for the Rollo Chain you were looking for that are really popular nowdays. 