1 A dealership could charge anywhere from $30 to $60 for a basic oil change. 2  Because most people get the basic oil change, which includes regular not synthetic oil, the average cost of an oil change is about $30. 1 This price can also depend on the services each garage includes in the price of an oil change. 2  For example, Uncle Ed’s Oil Shoppe offers a basic oil change for $40, a high-mileage oil change for $58, and a diesel oil change for $70. 3  This is one of the more expensive oil shops around.
Oil Change Pricing. The average cost of a basic oil change will usually come in at between $25 and $50, assuming conventional grade oil is used. The higher the grade of oil used, the more you can expect to pay, with semi and full synthetic oils topping the price list. For example, opting for a fully synthetic oil means paying somewhere between $60 and %70 for an oil change.
1 Another company such as BrakesPlus.com, located in Colorado, charges $26.99 for a standard oil change. 2  A dealership could charge anywhere from $30 to $60 for a basic oil change. 3  Because most people get the basic oil change, which includes regular not synthetic oil, the average cost of an oil change is about $30. 1 This price can also depend on the services each garage includes in the price of an oil change. 2  For example, Uncle Ed’s Oil Shoppe offers a basic oil change for $40, a high-mileage oil change for $58, and a diesel oil change for $70. 3  This is one of the more expensive oil shops around.
Oil change pricing variations. Oil change prices vary based on the type and amount of oil used, the cost of the oil filter, and the labor rate of the shop. Many shops advertise inexpensive oil changes to draw you into their facility, only to make hefty recommendations for additional needed repairs.. 
1 For example, Uncle Ed’s Oil Shoppe offers a basic oil change for $40, a high-mileage oil change for $58, and a diesel oil change for $70. 2  This is one of the more expensive oil shops around. 3  Maximum or synthetic oil changes can cost $35 to $55. 1 This price can also depend on the services each garage includes in the price of an oil change. 2  For example, Uncle Ed’s Oil Shoppe offers a basic oil change for $40, a high-mileage oil change for $58, and a diesel oil change for $70. 3
1 A do-it-yourself oil change typically costs about $10-$20, depending on how many quarts of oil are needed. 2  Engine oil typically costs about $5 -$10 per quart and is available at several national chains, including Autozone and Walmart. 1 Oil changes involve more parts than just the oil itself. 2  Included in the cost of any oil change is the cost of labor, the oil, shop supplies, an oil filter and any associated gasket, O-rings or seals, plus the cost of disposing of the used oil. 3  Labor is not charged in the same way that is for other repair jobs.
1 An oil change typically costs $20-$55, depending on whether the work is performed at an independent shop, an oil-change retail chain or a dealership, and the number of quarts of oil used in the vehicle. 2  Independent shops and retail chains tend to be less expensive than dealerships. 1 Oil changes involve more parts than just the oil itself. 2  Included in the cost of any oil change is the cost of labor, the oil, shop supplies, an oil filter and any associated gasket, O-rings or seals, plus the cost of disposing of the used oil. 3  Labor is not charged in the same way that is for other repair jobs.
1 Indy Honda in Indianapolis charges $35-$54 for an oil change with a multi-point inspection, depending on the year and model of the vehicle, but in February 2013 it offered an online coupon price of $30-$45. 1 Oil changes involve more parts than just the oil itself. 2  Included in the cost of any oil change is the cost of labor, the oil, shop supplies, an oil filter and any associated gasket, O-rings or seals, plus the cost of disposing of the used oil. 3  Labor is not charged in the same way that is for other repair jobs.
In 2014, a full-synthetic oil change with oil filter at Jiffy Lube cost me $77 before taxes and a discount coupon. This is $42 more than their conventional oil change. They offer a synthetic-blend oil change as well. These prices are not easy to find online. 