A quality radon reduction (mitigation) system is often able to reduce the annual average radon level to below 2 pCi/L. In general, costs can range from approximately $800-$2500, with the average reduction system costing approximately $1500. The PBS series “ Ask This Old House ” visited a home in Minneapolis to install a radon mitigation system. The episode covers how radon systems are properly designed and installed. Radon mitigation is any process or system used to reduce radon concentrations in the breathing zones of occupied buildings. The goal of a radon mitigation system is to reduce the indoor radon levels to below the EPA action level of 4 pCi/L.
Radon Mitigation Cost The cost of Radon Systems varies widely depending on the home and foundation that we are working with. If you call the office at 303-462-5000 and answer about 5 minutes worth of questions, we can email you a custom 4 page proposal with guaranteed pricing within the hour. 
1 On average, mitigation by a professional can cost anywhere from $650 to $1,900. 2  One of the most common methods or ridding a home of radon is by installing a radon mitigation system; this keeps a constant reading as well as reduces the radon in the air. 3  A system can cost upwards of $650 to $2,100. 1 The EPA will recommend that a home with radon present in the past be retested every 1 to 2 years. 2  A professional can give a professional reading for anywhere from $150 to $300. 3  A mitigation system may require maintenance in the future in case it fails. 4  Necessary parts and labor may be required.
Radon mitigation in a home with crawlspace can be more than twice the cost of a system in a home with a basement because a crawlspace has to be sealed with an air-tight vapor barrier that requires much more labor hours and material to install.5. According to the EPA, radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer. When determining the price your willing to spend on a mitigation system, consider that you want the best radon mitigation system to achieve maximum radon reduction results. As you can see, radon mitigation costs are determined by multiple factors.
1 Ground water wells can also be tested for radon, then, if needed, can get a water radon mitigation system installed. 2  Installing a water radon mitigation system runs from $1,000-$4,500, and maintenance runs $0 to $150 annually. 3  To find out about radon content in a city water system, call the local water provider. 1 It's wise to retest a home's radon level every year or two after a mitigation system is installed. 2  Most radon mitigation systems include a fan, which will need to be replaced about every 5 years. 3  Expect to pay $250-$300 to have this necessary maintenance done.
1 A radon kit can cost anywhere from $13 to $30. 2  For example, the First Alert RD1 Radon Gas Test Kit costs $13 to $23. 3  Based on a 1-10 scale, anything under 4pCi/L is deemed “standard” according to the EPA. 4  If that number surpasses 4, mitigation will be necessary to ensure that the radon is free from the home. 1 The EPA will recommend that a home with radon present in the past be retested every 1 to 2 years. 2  A professional can give a professional reading for anywhere from $150 to $300. 3  A mitigation system may require maintenance in the future in case it fails. 4  Necessary parts and labor may be required.
1 A radon test kit, including laboratory analysis, costs $15-$35. 2  Short-term test kits cost a little bit less than long-term test kits. 3  Radon test kits are available at most home improvement stores, including Lowes and the home section of Wal-Mart. 1 It's wise to retest a home's radon level every year or two after a mitigation system is installed. 2  Most radon mitigation systems include a fan, which will need to be replaced about every 5 years. 3  Expect to pay $250-$300 to have this necessary maintenance done.
1 The EPA's Installation and Operating Cost Table lists how much a radon mitigation system should cost based on the type of foundation. 2  Operating a radon mitigation system costs from nothing up to $700 per year. 3  Many radon mitigation systems have fans that require continuous electric power that can add to power bills. 1 It's wise to retest a home's radon level every year or two after a mitigation system is installed. 2  Most radon mitigation systems include a fan, which will need to be replaced about every 5 years. 3  Expect to pay $250-$300 to have this necessary maintenance done.
The average cost for a certified or licensed mitigation contractor to lower radon levels in a slab or basement home is about $1,500, and a crawl space home is about $3,000 or more. Your costs may vary depending on the size and design of your home and which radon reduction methods are needed. If your home has a radon problem, it can be fixed by installing a radon mitigation system in the home. EPA and the Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral Health recommends that you get a certified or licensed radon mitigation contractor to install the system.
The cost of a mitigation system may vary according to the home's design, size, foundation, construction materials and the local climate. Radon reduction systems average costs nationally are $1,200 with a range from $800 to $1500 common depending on house and market conditions. 