The World Health Organization says that head lice as opposed to body lice is now the most prevalent parasitic infestation of humans in the United States and Europe. Head lice are ubiquitous in most developing countries. The head louse occurs primarily on the head and cements its eggs to the hair shafts. It can also infest the eyebrows and eyelashes. The body louse (commonly called the clothing louse) is found on the body and attaches its eggs to fibers of clothing, especially along the seams of the clothings inner surface. 
Most people are familiar with Dust mites and the common lice, while the dust mite does not acutally attack humans, there are many mites that can 'bite'. Most lice are scavengers, feeding on skin and other debris found on the host's body, but some species feed on sebaceous secretions and blood. Most are found only on specific types of animal, and, in some cases, only to a particular part of the body. Living lice eggs tend to be pale white. Dead lice eggs are more yellow. They crawl fast (up to 12 inches or 30 cm per hour – that's fast if you're the size of a sesame seed!) but do not fly or jump. An adult louse can be up to 1/8 inch (3 mm) in size and is pale grey or brown.
There are three main types of lice that all have similar symptoms, though they occur on different parts of the body: 1  head lice: found on the scalp, neck, and ears. 2  body lice: start out on clothing or in beds, but move from those locations to people’s skin. 3  pubic lice: also called “crabs,” found on pubic hair and skin. 
Lice vs Crabs. Lice and crabs are completely different types of animals found among the invertebrates, yet these both belong to the same taxonomic phylum, Arthropoda, as they have jointed legs. Body size could be considered as the main external difference between them, but there are many other significant variations in lice from crabs. However, the common reference of some false crabs such as King crab, Hermit crab, Porcelain crab, Horseshoe crab, and Crab Lice could be confusing with the true crabs.
There are over 500 different species of sucking lice. The most commonly found species of sucking lice are head lice and crab lice. They get their name because their mouths are designed specifically to suck blood. Lice eggs are called nits. 1  Even though they are extremely small, both lice and their eggs can be seen with the naked eye. 2  A single female produces between 80 and 100 eggs in her lifetime.
Head lice are tiny, wingless, parasitic insects that live and feed on blood from your scalp. There are other types of lice, including body lice, which affects the body and pubic lice, which affects the pubic area. The head lice are the most common form of infestation that most humans face. They just cause itchiness in the scalp. Some types of lice are known to leave small, red bumps on the scalp, neck, and shoulders, which may become crusty and ooze. However, these are rare occurrence. Furthermore, lice spend their entire lives linked to human beings, usually a single human.
While, both are parasitic infections, there are certain differences between the two. The main difference is that the lice mainly affects humans, but may also affect pets. Comparatively, fleas mainly affect pets but may also affect humans. Also, the shape of the body differs between the two. Fleas generally have a reddish brown flat body shape as compared to the dark grey oval body shape of a louse. Fleas commonly affect dogs and cats, but may also be found on humans and other available animals, especially if there is no easy excess to the dogs or cats or the cats and dogs have been moved out of the house. Head lice are tiny, wingless, parasitic insects that live and feed on blood from your scalp.
These nits, which resemble dandruff, are attached with a gluelike, water-insoluble substance that makes them difficult to remove. After six to 10 days, the nits hatch as nymphs and become adults in 10 days. Head lice are the most common form of lice infestation. The U.S. CDC reports that 6-12 million people in the United States are infested each year. Children aged 3-11 years in preschool, elementary school, and day-care centers are most likely to have lice. 
Appearance. Head lice and dandruff are both indicated by tiny white particles in the hair and scalp, and can be mistaken for one another at a quick glance. Upon closer inspection, the differences are easier to see. Dandruff, also called seborrheic dermatitis, is the flaking of your scalp skin.