Wind turbines can convert the energy in the wind into mechanical power that can be used for a variety of activities like pumping water. Wind turbines can also use generators to convert wind energy into electricity. Wind is simply air in motion. Winds are created by the sun's uneven heating of the atmosphere in combination with the irregular surface of the earth and the earth's rotation. These winds can be harvested using wind turbines and used to make electricity. The force of the wind makes the wind turbine blades spin, and the energy of this motion is converted into electricity by a generator
The terms  wind energy  or  wind power  describe the process by which the wind is used to generate mechanical power or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical power. This mechanical power can be used for specific tasks (such as grinding grain or pumping water) or a generator can convert this mechanical power into electricity to power homes, businesses, schools, and the like. Wind is a form of solar energy. Winds are caused by the uneven heating of the atmosphere by the sun, the irregularities of the earth's surface, and rotation of the earth. Wind flow patterns are modified by the earth's terrain, bodies of water, and vegetative cover.
The terms wind energy or wind power describe the process by which the wind is used to generate mechanical power or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical power. Instead of using electricity to make wind, like a fan, wind turbines use wind to make electricity. The wind turns the blades, which spin a shaft, which connects to a generator and makes
Chapter 16: Wind Energy. Wind can be used to do work. The kinetic energy of the wind can be changed into other forms of energy, either mechanical energy or electrical energy. When a boat lifts a sail, it is using wind energy to push it through the water. This is one form of
Wind power can be used in an enviorment where there are alot of wind power, for example Northern California and Oregon are have great wind resources. -There is a large 'wind f … arm' just west of Palm Springs along Interstate 10 in Southern California. 2 people found this useful. 
Wind Turbines. Wind turbines, like aircraft propeller blades, turn in the moving air and power an electric generator that supplies an electric current. Simply stated, a wind turbine is the opposite of a fan. Instead of using electricity to make wind, like a fan, wind turbines use wind to make electricity. Wind is a form of solar energy. Winds are caused by the uneven heating of the atmosphere by the sun, the irregularities of the earth's surface, and rotation of the earth. Wind flow patterns are modified by the earth's terrain, bodies of water, and vegetative cover.
Wind power captures the natural wind in our atmosphere and converts it into mechanical energy then electricity. People started using wind power centuries ago with windmills, which pumped water, ground grain, and did other work. Today's wind turbine is a highly evolved version of a windmill. Modern wind turbines harness wind's kinetic energy and convert it into electricity. During 2014, the U.S. generated enough electricity from wind energy to power the equivalent of 16.7 million American homes, or all the residential households in Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Illinois, Kansas, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota combined.
Today, the windmill's modern equivalent-a wind turbine-can use the wind's energy to generate electricity. Wind turbines, like windmills, are mounted on a tower to capture the most energy. At 100 feet (30 meters) or more aboveground, they can take advantage of the faster and less turbulent wind. 
Wind is a clean and renewable energy source that can produce enough electricity to power millions of homes and businesses. In simple terms, wind is the movement of air created by the uneven heating of the surface of the earth by the sun. Today, wind energy is primarily used for the production of electricity. The process by which wind is used to generate electricity is referred to as wind energy. Wind turbines convert wind's kinetic energy to mechanical power. This mechanical power can then be converted into electricity through the use of a generator.