If your iPhone is already plugged into the PC, you can also try this method: 1  Open “My Computer”. 2  Find the iPhone, it will appear as any other camera would. 3  Open iPhone to find your Photos. 4  Select the pictures you want to copy to your computer and copy/paste them into the desired location on your PC. 
Connect your iPhone to your PC with the USB cable. Open your Computer by clicking the Start menu and selecting Computer. In Windows 8, type “computer” while you are at the Start screen. 1  If the AutoPlay windows appears, click the “Import pictures and videos” link and skip down to Step 3. 
1 Connect your iOS device to your computer. 2  Try to import your photos again using your photo-management software. 3  You can also try these steps on your PC: 4  Mac: Open Image Capture in the Applications folder. 5  Windows 8: Move the cursor to the upper-right corner, click the magnifying glass, enter Computer, and press Return. 
Step 3: Click or tap the notification and choose the Import photos and videos option. By default, all the pictures will be saved in your My Pictures folder. (b). If you're using Windows Vista or Windows 7 : Step 1: Connect your iPhone to PC using USB cable. Step 2: Import pictures and videos .
So if you want to transfer photos from iPhone to PC, you need to use other programs. Lots of programs like iPhone transfer, iPhone to PC transfer, iPhone backup software, etc may help you do the job well. I have learned there are many related tutorials on the websites. Just go to refer to them. 
(Image courtesy of Microsoft). Using USB. Plug your iPhone into a computer with the USB cable. You can transfer photos from your iPhone to any Windows 7 or 8 computer, even if you usually sync your iPhone to a different PC. Press Windows-E -- or click Computer on the Windows 7 Start menu -- to open the Computer window. If it isn't already, open the Portable Devices section to find the icon for your iPhone.
Link your iPhone to computer with USB cable. Then activate the iPhone Photo Transfer, it will check and read your iPhone information immediately. Open any of your computer and iPhone file types (Music, Movie, TV Show, Ringtone, Photo, Camera. etc.) you will get files in detail. Once you have figured out what picture files you want to display on your iPhone, you can start to transfer photos from computer to iPhone. There are three means for you to sync photos to iPhone with ease: The first way you adopt is directly drag the selected files from your PC to your iPhone.
1. Plug your iPhone into computer via the USB cable. Launch iTunes if it doesn’t launch automatically. 2. Find “File” option on the upper left corner. Then click “Add File to Library”. 3. Select photos from your PC and then iTunes will sync the photos to iPhone automatically. You may need your Apple ID to start the photo syncing. If iTunes asks, type your Apple ID into the blank, and then the synchronization starts.
The easiest way to sync photos to the iphone or ipod on a pc is to sync them from a particular folder. As a test, create a new folder on your desktop. Put 3-4 photos in the folder. Use copy and past instead of dragging the photo. That way your not moving your original photo. Now, open itunes and connect up the iphone. Or you can sync with any folder on your computer that contains images. Click the Photos tab and select Sync photos from:. From the pop-up menu, do one of the following: If your using a Mac, choose iPhoto or your Pictures folder. If you're using a PC, choose Photoshop Album, Photoshop Elements, or your My Pictures folder. Choose Folder, then choose any folder on your computer that has images inside. Choose All photos, or choose Selected folders or Selected albums and choose the folders or albums you want to sync