Indeed, all plant foods contain lectins but the lectins in grains (such as wheat), dairy and legumes cause an inflammatory response in your body and are resistant to cooking and digestive enzymes. Overall, research on legume lectin is young and there is a lot more to be explored. Regardless if you have an autoimmune disease or a food intolerance, dairy, legumes and grains contain toxic ingredients (lectins) and intolerance can be asymptomatic (silent). If eating paleo is not suiting you at this time, just try your best to eat your best.
Pseudograins are the seeds of broadleaf plants (non-grasses) that are used in the same way as grains. They are often promoted as gluten-free alternatives, and examples include quinoa, buckwheat, amaranth, and chia seeds. Legumes are plants in the Fabaceae or pea family. The part that we eat is the bean or pea (the seed) and sometimes the pod as well. This family includes beans, clover, alfalfa, lentils, peanuts, chickpeas, lima beans, soybeans, and others. The edible portion of these plants is the seed, which contains the embryo.
Beans and legumes are truly a fountain of youth anti-inflammatory food because they are bursting with inflammation-reducing antioxidants and phytonutrients as well as being one of the richest sources of fiber on the planet. 
All legumes (beans, but also tofu, soy-milk, peas, lentils, and peanuts) contain lectins. Some of these lectins are implicated in IBS, Crohn’s disease, arthritis, multiple sclerosis, peptic ulcers, allergies, and Type 2 diabetes. 3. Beans are high in starch and carbohydrates. For many people, one of the joys of the paleo diet is that they don’t have to eat beans (or oatmeal, or any of a long list of bland, boring foods). Conventional wisdom (and Tim Ferriss), push beans as a kind of wonder food, but that’s just not the case.
Alpha-linolenic acid is a class of omega-3 fatty acid found in beans, the PCRM notes. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, some research suggests that regularly consuming alpha-linolenic acid can alleviate joint stiffness and reduce inflammation in people with arthritis. Arthritis is a serious medical condition that increases the risk of chronic pain, inability to perform activities of daily living and depression. Certain dietary modifications can reduce the painful symptoms of arthritis in certain people. Beans are one food that may be beneficial to thos
On the one side the paleolithic (or “ Stone Age “) style of eating, a dietary/lifestyle system that eschews grains, legumes, sugar, and all processed foods in favor of quality meats, poultry, fish, vegetables, fruit, and healthful fats. This is the anti-bean side. For many people, one of the joys of the paleo diet is that they don’t have to eat beans (or oatmeal, or any of a long list of bland, boring foods). Conventional wisdom (and Tim Ferriss), push beans as a kind of wonder food, but that’s just not the case.
advice, dairy, Diabetes, disease, eating, inflammation, paleo. Legumes, also known as hummus, refried beans, chick peas, black beans, peanuts, soy beans etc, all contain lectins (specialized proteins). Regardless if you have an autoimmune disease or a food intolerance, dairy, legumes and grains contain toxic ingredients (lectins) and intolerance can be asymptomatic (silent). If eating paleo is not suiting you at this time, just try your best to eat your best.
How to Soak Beans. Soaking dried beans pulls out some of the sugars that cause gas and helps the beans cook more evenly. Soak beans overnight or try these quick-soak methods: Sort through 2 cups of beans and place them in a pressure cooker. Cover with 2 inches of water, secure the lid and bring to high pressure for 2 minutes. Let pressure release and then drain the beans. 
Nutrition can help reduce levels of pain and combat the underlying inflammation that causes arthritis, according to the Physician's Committee for Responsible Medicine, or PDRM, which adds that certain trigger foods can induce arthritis pain in certain individuals; these trigger foods include corn, eggs, wheat and nuts. Arthritis is a serious medical condition that increases the risk of chronic pain, inability to perform activities of daily living and depression. Certain dietary modifications can reduce the painful symptoms of arthritis in certain people. Beans are one food that may be beneficial to those with arthritis.
The first step of the UltraSimple Diet is to eliminate foods that cause inflammation, which lead to aches, pains, fatigue, and ... Legumes (lentils, navy beans, adzuki beans, mung beans, tofu); Brown rice; Nuts and seeds (almonds, walnuts, pecans, macadamia nuts, pumpkin seeds). ... Acne and atopic dermatitis (a disorder that causes chronic inflammation of the skin) also have a “significant inflammatory component,” Perricone ... Perricone urges readers to increase their intake of vegetables (except for potatoes, which are highly glycemic), legumes and whole ...