A hemothorax (hemo- + thorax) (or haemothorax /Haemorrhagic pleural effusion) is a type of pleural effusion in which blood accumulates in the pleural cavity. In supine patients, signs of hemothorax may also be subtle on radiographic film, because the blood will layer in the pleural space, and can be seen as a haziness in one half of the thorax relative to the other side.
In pediatric patients, chest tube size varies with the size of the child. In patients older than 12 years, the chest tube size used is usually the same as that for adults. In smaller children, a 24- to 34-French chest tube should be used, depending on the size of the child. The insertion site should also be infiltrated with a local anesthetic. On insertion, the thoracotomy tube is directed toward the costophrenic angle. Attention should be given to the location of insertion on the chest wall and the intrathoracic position of the tube as seen on the chest radiograph. For maximum drainage, thoracostomy tube placement for hemothorax should ideally be in the sixth or seventh intercostal space at the posterior axillary line
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. A hemithorax is one side of the chest. The thorax is the medical term for the chest area, and hemithorax indicates only one half of the chest. The plural for this medical term is hemithoraxes or hemithoraces. Pneumonia causes something called hemithorax opacification. This is the name for any condition that causes one hemithorax to show up dark on a radiology chart of the chest. Opaque hemithoraces can indicate pleural effusion (fluid filling the lungs), too.
This rupture allows blood to spill into the pleural space, equalizing the pressures between it and the lungs. Blood loss may be massive in people with these conditions, as each side of the thorax can hold 30 to 40% of a person's blood volume. Even minor injury to the chest wall can lead to significant hemothorax. In supine patients, signs of hemothorax may also be subtle on radiographic film, because the blood will layer in the pleural space, and can be seen as a haziness in one half of the thorax relative to the other side.
The ventral body cavity is a human body cavity that is in the anterior (front) aspect of the human body. It is made up of the thoracic cavity, and the abdominopelvic cavity. The abdominopelvic cavity is further divided into the abdominal cavity and pelvic cavity, but there is no physical barrier between the two. 
location of the left nipple may be used to help locate the apex of heart, which is approximately 8 cm from the midline in the left 5th intercostal space; a surface landmark used to place the stethoscope for auscultation of the bicuspid valve. 
Method of Exam. Examine the position of mediastinum by standing in front of the patient. Make certain that the patient is seated straight or preferably standing erect. Trachea is the index of upper mediastinum. Heart is the index of lower mediastinum. 1 Then, with the middle finger, assess the space between the trachea and sternomastoid. 2  Caution: Make sure that your nails are trimmed. 3  Position of Heart: Identify the location of apex of the heart by inspection and palpation. 4  Caution: Make sure that the heart is not enlarged.
Note the dependent location of the small left pleural effusion in the anterior aspect of the left hemithorax (arrow). Computed tomography scan of the chest shows a soft-tissue lesion involving the right mainstem bronchus and atelectasis of the right lung with postobstructive changes in the right lower lung. Computed tomography scan of the chest demonstrates a loculated pleural effusion (E) in the left hemithorax. The loculated effusion is well defined and elliptical and similar to water in its attenuation. The less commonly seen pseudochyle (chyliform pleural effusion) can manifest as a fat-fluid or fat-calcium level.