While age is a major risk factor for osteoarthritis of the knee, young people can get it, too. For some individuals, it may be hereditary. For others, osteoarthritis of the knee can result from injury or infection or even from being overweight.
Osteoarthritis, the most common type of joint disease, is a heterogeneous group of conditions that result in common histopathologic and radiologic changes. It is a degenerative disorder that results from the biochemical breakdown of articular cartilage in the synovial joints.
Isolated cartilage loss may be a result of isolated trauma or it may be a result of chronic wear and tear of the joint. Symptoms of osteoarthritis include joint pain with activity, night pain, morning stiffness, limited motion, joint inflammation, crepitus or noise from the knee, and deformity.
Osteoarthritis, commonly known as wear-and-tear arthritis, is a condition in which the natural cushioning between joints -- cartilage -- wears away. When this happens, the bones of the joints rub more closely against one another with less of the shock-absorbing benefits of cartilage.
Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis. While it can occur even in young people, the chance of developing osteoarthritis rises after age 45. According to the Arthritis Foundation, more than 27 million people in the U.S. have osteoarthritis, with the knee being one of the most commonly affected areas.
Consensus is that total knee replacement is the most clinically effective treatment for severe osteoarthritis of the knee. Unicompartmental knee replacement may be more effective in the long term than tricompartmental knee replacement.
Osteoarthritis of the Knee. Osteoarthritis is the most common cause of musculoskeletal pain and disability in the knee joint. In the knee joint, the end of the femur (thigh bone) and tibia (shin bone) are covered in smooth articulate cartilage.
1 People with rheumatoid arthritis, the second most common type of arthritis, are also more likely to develop osteoarthritis. 2  People with certain metabolic disorders, such as iron overload or excess growth hormone, also run a higher risk of
Tricompartmental arthritis involves all three of the anatomical compartments of the knee joint. It can cause significant joint pain and stiffness, as well as instability; it tends to be more common in older adults, because it represents an advanced progression of disease.