Re: How long can my puppy last through the night? Mine was also about 4 months when she was allowed to sleep with me and now she is 7.5 months. 99% of the time she will make it all night, but on a rare occasion she might have had to much water to late, she will get up and cry in the middle of the night to go out.
Customer Question. How long can a dog go with out pooping before I need to take her to a vet. She is a foster dog we got last Friday (4/16/10) and she hasn't pooped yet. It appeared that she was trying once (she looked like she was too nervous to poop) yesterday on the potty break.
The younger your puppy is, the less bowel and bladder control he’ll have and the more potty trips he’ll need. If your puppy is less than 6 weeks old, plan to take him out every 30 or 45 minutes during the daytime. If he’s 6-12 weeks old, plan to take him outside every hour. From 12-16 weeks, he’ll likely need a potty trip every 2 hours and from 4-6 months, every 3 hours.
My 4-month-old puppy is still waking up twice overnight to go out to potty. Most puppies are able to make it through the night without a potty trip by the time they’re 3 or 4 months old. If that hasn’t happened for your puppy yet, try feeding him earlier, since you don’t want him going to bed with a full belly.
Gen B. is online now. How long can a dog go with out pooping before I need to take her to a vet. She is a foster dog we got last Friday (4/16/10) and she hasn't pooped yet. It appeared that she was trying once (she looked like she was too nervous to poop) yesterday on the potty break.
It’s not always easy to live with humans if you’re a dog. First, you have to learn that humans don’t like it when you urinate or defecate indoors. Then you have to figure out how to get outside when you need to go! Since you don’t have opposable thumbs for opening doors, you’re in a bit of a predicament.
For example, you might need to train your dog to ask to go out if her current method is to stand silently by a door. If you’re in another room of the house and can’t see her, you won’t have any idea that she’s “asking!”.