Genetics is the study of genes, heredity, and genetic variation in living organisms. It is generally considered a field of biology, but it intersects frequently with many of the life sciences and is strongly linked with the study of information systems. The modern working definition of a gene is a portion (or sequence) of DNA that codes for a known cellular function or process (e.g. the function make melanin molecules). A single 'gene' is most similar to a single 'word' in the English language. The nucleotides (molecules) that make up genes can be seen as 'letters' in the English language. Nucleotides are named according to which of the four nitrogenous bases they contain. The four bases are cytosine, guanine, adenine, and thymine
A DNA molecule is a twisted ladder-like stack of building blocks called nucleotides. There are four types of DNA nucleotides-adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine-or A, C, G, and T, for short. You've got six billion of these pairs of nucleotides in each of your cells, and amongst these six billion nucleotide pairs are roughly 23,000 genes. A gene is a distinct stretch of DNA that determines something about who you are. (More on that later.) Genes vary in size, from just a few thousand pairs of nucleotides (or base pairs) to over two million base pairs
Alleles are forms of the same gene with small differences in their sequence of DNA bases. These small differences contribute to each person’s unique physical features. Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases. 
The father of genetics is Gregor Mendel, a late 19th-century scientist and Augustinian friar. Mendel studied 'trait inheritance', patterns in the way traits were handed down from parents to offspring. He observed that organisms (pea plants) inherit traits by way of discrete units of inheritance. The modern working definition of a gene is a portion (or sequence) of DNA that codes for a known cellular function or process (e.g. the function make melanin molecules). A single 'gene' is most similar to a single 'word' in the English language. The nucleotides (molecules) that make up genes can be seen as 'letters' in the English language. Nucleotides are named according to which of the four nitrogenous bases they contain. The four bases are cytosine, guanine, adenine, and thymin
A gene is a segment of DNA that encodes function. A chromosome consists of a long strand of DNA containing many genes. A human chromosome can have up to 500 million base pairs of DNA with thousands of genes. The total complement of genes in an organism or cell is known as its genome, which may be stored on one or more chromosomes. A chromosome consists of a single, very long DNA helix on which thousands of genes are encoded. The region of the chromosome at which a particular gene is located is called its locus.
Trait inheritance and molecular inheritance mechanisms of genes are still a primary principle of genetics in the 21st century, but modern genetics has expanded beyond inheritance to studying the function and behavior of genes. The modern working definition of a gene is a portion (or sequence) of DNA that codes for a known cellular function or process (e.g. the function make melanin molecules). A single 'gene' is most similar to a single 'word' in the English language. The nucleotides (molecules) that make up genes can be seen as 'letters' in the English language. Nucleotides are named according to which of the four nitrogenous bases they contain. The four bases are cytosine, guanine, adenine, and thymine
Genes. A gene is a length of DNA that codes for a specific protein. So, for example, one gene will code for the protein insulin, which is important role in helping your body to control the amount of sugar in your blood. Genes are the basic unit of genetics. Human beings have 20,000 to 25,000 genes. Genes are made of a chemical called DNA, which is short for 'deoxyribonucleic acid'. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase.