Maximal respiratory pressures Maximal inspiratory pressure followedby maximal expiratory pressure was obtainedfrom residual volume and total lung capac-ity, with the subjects seated wearing noseclips and with a rigid, plastic flanged mouth-piece in place. 
Spirometry (meaning the measuring of breath) is the most common of the pulmonary function tests (PFTs), measuring lung function, specifically the amount (volume) and/or speed (flow) of air that can be inhaled and exhaled. Mean transit time is the area under the flow-volume curve divided by the forced vital capacity. Maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) MIP, also known as negative inspiratory force (NIF) , is the maximum pressure that can be generated against an occluded airway beginning at functional residual capacity (FRC). It is a marker of respiratory muscle function and strength
Measurement of maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) is a simple, quick and noninvasive clinical procedure for determining this index of inspiratory muscle strength both in healthy subjects and in patients with pulmonary or neuromuscular diseases (1-9). The mean and lower limit of the normal range (LLN) for maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) in healthy BLSA men and women of average weight and height are compared with those for healthy men and women from studies by Black and Hyatt (6), Vincken and colleagues (7), Wilson and associates (8), and Enright and coworkers (4).
maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) the inspiratory pressure generated against a completely occluded airway; used to evaluate inspiratory respiratory muscle strength and readiness for weaning from mechanical ventilation. A maximum inspiratory pressure above −25 cm H 2 O is associated with successful weaning. plateau pressure in mechanical ventilation, the pressure measured at the proximal airway during an end-inspiratory pause; a reflection of alveolar pressure. pleural pressure the pressure between the visceral pleura and the thoracic pleura in the pleural cavity.
P max is the asymptotically maximal pressure that can be developed by the respiratory muscles at any lung volume and P i is the maximum inspiratory pressure that can be developed at specific lung volumes. This measurement also requires pressure transducers in addition. Mean transit time is the area under the flow-volume curve divided by the forced vital capacity. Maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) MIP, also known as negative inspiratory force (NIF) , is the maximum pressure that can be generated against an occluded airway beginning at functional residual capacity (FRC). It is a marker of respiratory muscle function and strength
The MIP reflects the strength of the diaphragm and other inspiratory muscles, while the MEP reflects the strength of the abdominal muscles and other expiratory muscles. An alternative or additional test of inspiratory muscles strength is maximal sniff nasal inspiratory pressure (SNIP). 
maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) a measure of the strength of respiratory muscles, obtained by having the patient inhale as strongly as possible with the mouth against a mouthpiece; the maximum value is near the residual volume. plateau pressure in mechanical ventilation, the pressure measured at the proximal airway during an end-inspiratory pause; a reflection of alveolar pressure. pleural pressure the pressure between the visceral pleura and the thoracic pleura in the pleural cavity. Called also intrapleural or intrathoracic pressure.
Called also auto-PEEP and intrinsic PEEP. maximal expiratory pressure maximum expiratory pressure. maximal inspiratory pressure the pressure during inhalation against a completely occluded airway; used to evaluate inspiratory respiratory muscle strength and readiness for weaning from mechanical ventilation. A maximum inspiratory pressure above −25 cm H 2 O is associated with successful weaning. plateau pressure in mechanical ventilation, the pressure measured at the proximal airway during an end-inspiratory pause; a reflection of alveolar pressure. pleural pressure the pressure between the visceral pleura and the thoracic pleura in the pleural cavity.
maximal inspiratory pressure the pressure during inhalation against a completely occluded airway; used to evaluate inspiratory respiratory muscle strength and readiness for weaning from mechanical ventilation. A maximum inspiratory pressure above −25 cm H 2 O is associated with successful weaning. plateau pressure in mechanical ventilation, the pressure measured at the proximal airway during an end-inspiratory pause; a reflection of alveolar pressure. pleural pressure the pressure between the visceral pleura and the thoracic pleura in the pleural cavity. Called also intrapleural or intrathoracic pressure.