L-carnosine, not to be confused with L-carnitine, is a substance manufactured in the human body, made by combining the amino acids alanine and histidine. The highest levels of carnosine are found in the brain and nervous system, the lens of the eye, and skeletal muscle tissue. 
Description Supplement Facts FAQ. Information Carnosine is a small molecule composed of the amino acids, histidine and alanine. Carnosine is found in relatively high concentrations in several body tissues, most notably in skeletal muscle, heart muscle, nerve tissue and brain. 
Carnosine is a small protein composed of the amino acids histidine and alanine. It is found in relatively high concentrations in several body tissues, most notably in skeletal muscle, heart muscle, and the brain. The structure of carnosine is made up of two amino acids, histidine and alanine. This molecule is found only in animal tissue, especially skeletal, heart muscle, nerve, and brain tissue.
Carnosine (beta-alanyl-L-histidine), also called L-carnosine, was first discovered in 1900 by W. S. Gulewitsch. The structure of carnosine is made up of two amino acids, histidine and alanine. This molecule is found only in animal tissue, especially skeletal, heart muscle, nerve, and brain tissue. Most vegetarian diets may not provide enough carnosine, but whether this has a negative effect remains undetermined
Here’s how beta-alanine works, what it does for athletes, and how and when to take it. Carnosine works by preventing muscle acid build-up Muscle contains significant quantities of a substance called carnosine. Carnosine is a very important buffer, meaning it helps to maintain a normal balance of acidity in muscles. Fatigue during high-intensity exercise such as sprinting and weightlifting is linked to acid (hydrogen ion) build-up in the muscles and blood.
CARNOSINE Overview Information. Carnosine is a protein building block that is naturally produced in the body. It is concentrated in muscles when they are working, and it is also found in the heart, brain, and many other parts of the body. Carnosine is used to prevent aging and for preventing or treating complications of diabetes such as nerve damage, eye disorders (cataracts), and kidney problems.
Carnosine has been shown to play a significant role in muscle pH regulation. Carnosine is synthesized in skeletal muscle from the amino acids l-histidine and beta-alanine. The rate-limiting factor of carnosine synthesis is beta-alanine availability. Supplementation with beta-alanine has been shown to increase muscle carnosine content and therefore total muscle buffer capacity, with the potential to elicit improvements in physical performance during high-intensity exercise.
Muscle carnosine has been reported to serve as a physiological buffer, possess antioxidant properties, influence enzyme regulation, and affect sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium regulation. Beta-alanine (β-ALA) is a non-essential amino acid. 
After four weeks, beta-alanine increased muscle carnosine levels, and by 10 weeks, carnosine levels were almost two-fold higher than baseline. Further, beta-alanine resulted in a 16% increase in total work done during an all-out cycle test that lasted about 2.5 minutes. Carnosine is a very important buffer, meaning it helps to maintain a normal balance of acidity in muscles. Fatigue during high-intensity exercise such as sprinting and weightlifting is linked to acid (hydrogen ion) build-up in the muscles and blood.
Aid Overall Health. Carnosine is a dipeptide. This is a molecule that that is made up of two amino acids that are joined together by what is called a peptide bond. It is found in great concentration inside brain and muscle tissue, though it is also found in many vital organs.