Early Twin Deliveries. A twin pregnancy increases the risk for preterm labor and delivery. A single baby is considered full term at approximately 40 weeks, whereas twins are considered full term anywhere from 36 to 40 weeks. To help increase the odds that you will be carrying twins to term, do the following early on in your pregnancy: 1  Eat properly. 2  Take a prenatal multi-vitamin and eat frequent healthy meals. 3  Drink plenty of water. 4  Staying hydrated is important for moms who are pregnant with twins.
1 The average birth weight of full-term twins (37 weeks or later, compared to 39-40 weeks for singletons) is around 5 ½ pounds each, though one baby often weighs more than the other. 1 For most women pregnant with twins, gaining 24 pounds by week 24 is advised; a total weight gain of 35-45 pounds is generally desirable. 2  The twin who is developing closest to the exit (your cervix) is called Baby A. In 75 percent of cases, Baby A is head down before delivery; Baby B may be either head down or breech.
While the great majority of multiple pregnancies result in healthy babies, any pregnancy with twins or more is considered high risk. And the more babies you're carrying, the higher your risk of complications. According to the March of Dimes, close to 60 percent of all twins and more than 90 percent of triplets are born prematurely (before 37 weeks). The average twin pregnancy lasts 35 weeks. Triplet pregnancies average 33 weeks, and quad pregnancies average 29 week
Previously it was thought that infant mortality risk was similar for babies born between 37 and 41 weeks. But the new study shows that this risk is increased when babies are born between 37 and 39 weeks of gestation, and that this risk decreases with each additional week of pregnancy. Reviewed by Laura J. Martin, MD. May 23, 2011 -- Babies born between 39 and 41 weeks of pregnancy fare better than infants born during weeks 37 or 38, a study shows. A term birth is considered 37 to 41 weeks, but the new study suggests it is more of a continuum. The findings appear in Obstetrics & Gynecology.
The twin birth rate in the United States is close to 1 in 31, a nearly 40 percent increase since the early 1980s. That’s because there are growing numbers of older moms (hormonal changes are believed to be responsible for the release of more than one egg at ovulation) and more successful fertility treatments. 1 For most women pregnant with twins, gaining 24 pounds by week 24 is advised; a total weight gain of 35-45 pounds is generally desirable. 2  The twin who is developing closest to the exit (your cervix) is called Baby A. In 75 percent of cases, Baby A is head down before delivery; Baby B may be either head down or breech.
Pregnancy, also known as gravidity or gestation, is the time during which one or more offspring develops inside a woman. A multiple pregnancy involves more than one offspring, such as with twins. Pregnancy can occur by sexual intercourse or assisted reproductive technology. It usually lasts around 40 weeks from the last menstrual period (LMP) and ends in childbirth. This is just over 9 lunar months, where each month is about 29½ days. Around the middle of the second trimester, movement of the fetus may be felt. At 28 weeks, more than 90% of babies can survive outside of the uterus if provided high-quality medical care. The third trimester is from 29 weeks through 40 weeks.
Term pregnancy is 37 weeks to 41 weeks, with early term being 37 and 38 weeks, full term 39 and 40 weeks, and late term 41 weeks. Around the middle of the second trimester, movement of the fetus may be felt. At 28 weeks, more than 90% of babies can survive outside of the uterus if provided high-quality medical care. The third trimester is from 29 weeks through 40 weeks.
The last few weeks of pregnancy within these 40 weeks allow a baby’s brain and lungs to fully mature. Babies born between 39 weeks 0 days and 40 weeks 6 days gestation have the best health outcomes, compared with babies born before or after this period. This distinct time period is now referred to as “Full Term.”. 