One toilet flush is three gallons, hands and face washing one gallon daily and watering outdoor plants can use 5 to 10 gallons per minute. This breaks down to the average person using between 80 and 100 gallons of water daily (USGS, 2013). How Much Water Do You Need. To sustain life the average adult needs two quarts/liters of water/liquid daily. You can use between 4 and 10 gallons washing dishes in an automatic dishwasher but the amount depends on how efficient the appliance is. Hand washing dishes throughout the day can use up to 20 gallons of water. Oral hygiene consumes one gallon of water per person each time they brush if they leave the water running
1 Store at least 1 gallon of water per person per day for a minimum 3-day supply. 2  This means a family of 4 needs 12 gallons. 3  Be sure to account for pets; dogs and cats typically need 1 gallon each per day. 4  Store water in a cool, dark place in your home, office, or car. 
Cut off all water if you are going to be away from home on a vacation or trip. This keeps children from turning on outside faucets while you are away. Check to see how often your home water softening equipment regenerates and backwashes. It can use as much as 100 gallons of water each time it does this. You may want to cut down on the use of such equipment. Reserve softened water for kitchen use, bathing and laundry. 
Often students underestimate how much water they use. Point out that each time they go to the bathroom they may be using up to 20 liters of water. When they cook dinner they may use water to both boil food in, clean food, wash dishes, etc. 
How much water you actually need every day is different from how much is used or in some cases wasted. According to the USGS (United States Geological Society), the average shower uses two gallons per minute while a bath in an average tub uses up to 36 gallons. You can use between 4 and 10 gallons washing dishes in an automatic dishwasher but the amount depends on how efficient the appliance is. Hand washing dishes throughout the day can use up to 20 gallons of water. Oral hygiene consumes one gallon of water per person each time they brush if they leave the water running
My kitchen plumbing broke, we are putting off fixing it for the moment so I am using a 5 gallon bucket and recycling my water outside. So I am looking at how much water I use for dish washing/cooking at least 10 gallons a day sometimes 15 gallons. That’s a lot of water. That includes washing and rinsing. So really look closely at how much water you and your family are using to have a better idea of how much you’ll need. Also stock up on wet wipes Aldi’s in our area sells a pack of 56 for 85 cents. • A normally active person needs to drink at least a half gallon of water every day. Hot environments can double that, and children, nursing mothers and ill people will need even more. • Additional water should be stored for use in food preparation and hygiene. • Store at least one gallon of water per person, per day.
You might be surprised by how much water it takes to grow and make our food. The food we eat makes up more than 2/3 of our total water footprint, mostly because of all the virtual water needed to produce that food. It seems pretty obvious when you really think about it; crops can’t grow without water. 
Factors affecting water requirements The amount of water required to support life and health in an emergency varies with climate, the general state of health of the people affected and their level of physical fitness. Of equal importance in deciding how much water is needed are the expectations people have. A poor rural community may have far lower expectations concerning the quantity of water that is essential for life than people used to living in a wealthy urban environment. Sanitation and water requirement The type of sanitation provided has a big impact on water requirement. Water-borne types of sanitation, such as flush toilets, require a large volume of water (up to 7L per person per use). Pit latrines, or simple pour-flush toilets (Figure 9.3) have a much lower
Washing machines vary tremendously in how much water they use per wash: when adjusted for capacity, some use as much as 20 litres per kilogram while others as little as 6 litres per kilogram! Therefore, when buying a new washing machine it is important to make sure that the model is water efficient. 