The story begins with a traveling salesman, Gregor Samsa, waking to find himself transformed (metamorphosed) into a large, monstrous insect-like creature. The cause of Gregor's transformation is never revealed, and Kafka himself never gave an explanation. The rest of Kafka's novella deals with Gregor's attempts to adjust to his new condition as he deals with being burdensome to his parents and sister, who are repelled by the horrible, verminous creature Gregor has become. Gregor is the main character of the story. He works as a traveling salesman in order to provide money for his sister and parents. He wakes up one morning finding himself transformed into an insect. After the metamorphosis, Gregor becomes unable to work and is confined to his room for the remainder of the story.
Summary. First published in 1915, this is the story of Gregor Samsa, a young traveling salesman who lives with and financially supports his parents and younger sister. One morning he wakes up to discover that during the night he has been transformed into a monstrous vermin or insect. 
The Metamorphosis is said to be one of Franz Kafka’s best works of literature. It shows the difficulties of living in a modern society and the struggle for acceptance of others when in a time of need. Throughout The Metamorphosis, Kafka uses Gregor to make constant reference to the slamming doors in the background. Kafka lived with his parents most of his life even when he was able to support himself.
Study Guide for Kafka's The Metamorphosis Genre: Novella: A novella is a written, ﬁctional, pose narrative that is hotter than a novel. The word count for a novella is between 17,500 and 40,000. Other deﬁnitions start as low as 10,000 words and run as high as 70,000 words. 
Best Answer: Hi :) Hard to be positive on that question, but we can have hypothesis... Kafka was living at his parents (just like Gregor Samsa) when he wrote The Metamorphosis. He was also working as a functionary (hope this is the good English word :/) and was writing his books overnight. In The Metamorphosis, Kafka gives to Gregor some of his own caracteristics: the fear of the outside, the family hatred, the fear of being judged, and the hope of another destiny. He described his own book as an horror...
When comparing Franz Kafka and his personal life to The Metamorphosis it is obvious in more ways than one that he was writing a twisted story of his life. The emotional and physical abuse Gregor goes through are similar to what Kafka went through in real life. Throughout The Metamorphosis, Kafka uses Gregor to make constant reference to the slamming doors in the background. Kafka lived with his parents most of his life even when he was able to support himself.
The Metamorphosis Study Guide. Buy Study Guide. Kafka wrote The Metamorphosis in 1912, the year he felt his creativity finally taking a definite form. It was one of fairly few works Kafka was to publish in his lifetime. In 1913 he turned down an offer to publish the story, possibly because he was saving it for a book he was planning called Sons. Finally, The Metamorphosis is an autobiographical piece of writing, and we find that parts of the story reflect Kafka's own life. It is well known that Kafka felt like an insect in his father's authoritative presence and even developed a stammer while speaking to him.
The novella, 'The Metamorphosis' (Sometimes translated to 'The Transformation') was written by Franz Kafka. It was first published in the Czech Republic (Austria-Hungary) in 1915, 9 years before his death, aged 40. Other works of Franz Kafka include: -Der Process (The Trial). -Das Urteil (The Judgment). 
For the biological process, see Metamorphosis. For other uses, see Metamorphosis (disambiguation) . The Metamorphosis (German: Die Verwandlung, also sometimes translated as The Transformation) is a novella by Franz Kafka, first published in 1915. It has been cited as one of the seminal works of fiction of the 20th century and is studied in colleges and universities across the Western world. Gregor is the main character of the story. He works as a traveling salesman in order to provide money for his sister and parents. He wakes up one morning finding himself transformed into an insect. After the metamorphosis, Gregor becomes unable to work and is confined to his room for the remainder of the story.