1 Time adults spent in primary activities while providing childcare as a secondary activity by sex, age, and day of week, average for the combined years 2010-2014. 2  Table 11. 3  Time spent in leisure and sports activities for the civilian population by selected characteristics, 2014 annual averages. 4  Table 12. 1 Table 11. 2  Time spent in leisure and sports activities for the civilian population by selected characteristics, 2014 annual averages. 3  Table 12. 4  Average hours per day spent in primary activities for the civilian population, 2014 quarterly and
The researchers also compared the daily time Americans devote to team sports versus other fitness activities. They found that people spend an average of about two hours per day on team sports and less than an hour per day on other fitness activities, such as walking or running. The longest episodes -- an average of close to four hours per day -- are spent hunting and fishing. 
1 Time spent in primary activities and percent of the civilian population engaging in each activity, averages per day by sex, 2014 annual averages. 2  Table 2. 3  Time spent in primary activities and percent of the civilian population engaging in each activity, averages per day on weekdays and weekends, 2014 annual averages. 1 Table 11. 2  Time spent in leisure and sports activities for the civilian population by selected characteristics, 2014 annual averages. 3  Table 12. 4  Average hours per day spent in primary activities for the civilian population, 2014 quarterly and
So we therefore have less time and money to spend on exercise-but to spend over half our day sitting down is a health bomb waiting to happen. Incredibly, the average person only does 50 minutes of exercise each week-that's just a quarter of what is recommended for a healthy lifestyle. Once home they will sit down again to use a laptop or home computer for another two hours and 25 minutes. The statistics also showed the average person exercises just twice a week for 25 minutes a time, way below the Government guideline of 30 minutes every day.
1 Time adults spent caring for household children as a primary activity by sex, age, and day of week, average for the combined years 2010-2014. 2  Table 10. 3  Time adults spent in primary activities while providing childcare as a secondary activity by sex, age, and day of week, average for the combined years 2010-2014. 1 Table 11. 2  Time spent in leisure and sports activities for the civilian population by selected characteristics, 2014 annual averages. 3  Table 12. 4  Average hours per day spent in primary activities for the civilian population, 2014 quarterly and
The average amount of time people spend in the bathroom every day is about 30 minutes but one in four of us spend more than an hour. And if you are a woman you are significantly more likely to be spending well over an hour in the bathroom (37% versus 15% men) 2. 
Men spend an extra four minutes a day eating and drinking, an extra 10 minutes exercising and eight more minutes mowing the lawn. On an average day 83 percent of women and 65 percent of men spend some time doing household activities. On the days that they work, employed men toil 47 minutes more than employed women. Television accounts for the largest share of Americans' leisure time. How Americans spend their days. SLEEPING accounts for more than a third of the average American's day. According to the Bureau of Labour Statistics' latest time use survey, women get 11 minutes more kip a night than men do, and spend 29 more minutes cooking and clearing up.
Men spent an average of 19 minutes exercising, and women spent an average of 9 minutes exercise. As for healthy food preparation, researchers found that it took men about 17 minutes a day, and 44 minutes for women a day. Taken together with the time spent on exercise, researchers got the idea that the average person in the study spent less than an hour for both food and fitness in one day. Analyzing this data, researchers found trade-off behavior between the exercising and the preparation of healthy meals
Men do lead women in one area of home improvement: lawn and garden care. Men spend an average of 15 minutes per day on this, while women do roughly half that. [ ALSO: 5 Takeaways From the Latest Census Data ]. Women also spend nearly twice as much time caring for other household members, like children, than men do. Below, a rundown of some of the fascinating differences of how Americans of different genders spend their time. Men Work More Than Women Do. Men work longer hours than women do, and by a long shot: on days that they work, men work just over eight hours per day on average, nearly a full hour longer than women did. However, these figures are not that surprising, given that women are less likely than men to work full-time