Soils. Carbon dioxide in photosynthesis. Plants get carbon dioxide from the air through their leaves. The carbon dioxide diffuses through small holes in the underside of the leaf called stomata. (singular: stoma. plural: stomata). The lower part of the leaf has loose-fitting cells, to allow carbon dioxide to reach the other cells in the leaf. This also allow the oxygen produced in photosynthesis to leave the leaf easily. Carbon dioxide is present in the air we breathe, at very low concentrations. Even though it forms about .04% of the air, it is a needed factor in light-independent
Introduction. Experiment to investigate the effect of Carbon Dioxide on the Rate of Photosynthesis Aim: To find out whether the increase in carbon dioxide affects the rate at which oxygen is released (this will effectively measure the rate of photosynthesis) from a Canadian pondweed, elodea. Carbon dioxide provides carbon atoms in the reaction to form glucose. It can be seen that there are many factors which photosynthesis depends on and they will affect the plant. The following factors are the four main factors, which affect the rate of photosynthesis (how quickly photosynthesis takes place).
Light 6H2O + 6CO2 C6H12O6 + 6O2 Water + carbon chlorophyll glucose + oxygen dioxide It can be seen from the equation that water and carbon dioxide are very important in photosynthesis as without the process cannot take place. Carbon dioxide provides carbon atoms in the reaction to form glucose. It can be seen that there are many factors which photosynthesis depends on and they will affect the plant. The following factors are the four main factors, which affect the rate of photosynthesis (how quickly photosynthesis takes place).
Carbon dioxide is also another important factor in photosynthesis. In this experiment, water does not contain a lot of carbon dioxide, extra carbon dioxide has to be added to the water in this experiment. I think if we add baking soda to water, elodea will definitely produce more CO2. 
Carbon dioxide is needed for photosynthesis (Science elearning). Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water. In most cases, oxygen is also released as a waste product. Most plants, most algae, and cyanobacteria perform photosynthesis, and such organisms are called photoautotrophs. Photosynthesis maintains atmospheric oxygen levels and supplies all of the organic compounds and most of the energy necessary for life on Earth
This activity will be used prior to any direct instruction for photosynthesis. In this inquiry lab, students design and conduct simple experiments using elodea and Bromthymol blue to determine whether plants consume or release carbon dioxide in the process of photosynthesis. 
Experiments to show the factors required in photosynthesis (2) - light and carbon dioxide. The plant is placed in a dark place, e.g. a cupboard for 24 or 48 hours. It is essential that the plant is watered beforehand, and not forgotten about! This is so as to force the plant to use its reserve of starch, and not allow its replacement by photosynthesis. B The effect of carbon dioxide. Leaves of the plant are enclosed within glass flasks, supported at an angle by stands and clamps (250/350ml wide-mouthed flasks will usually do). Each flask will contain small amounts of various liquids, which should not be allowed to touch the leaves.
The students will learn that: 1) the variables of light intensity, temperature, carbon dioxide, light quality all influence the rate of photosynthesis. 2) photosynthesis requires carbon dioxide to furnish the carbon required to make glucose. This carbon dioxide will be supplied by sodium bicarbonate dissolved in the water with the plant leaf disks. 