Just copy the movie to a DVD disc, it will actually not read by DVD players. The best and most reliable DVD burning tool that I've ever used is a tool called DVD Creator. It's able to burn all kinds of videos to DVD disc. After that, you can view the DVD on DVD player. It also lets you edit videos and create DVD menus. I will burn a dvd and it will play fine on my computer but it wont play on my dvd player. it wont even read it. Most of the time it will read on my playstation, but it says disk error, or wrong disk on my dvd player. My dvd player will play some movies just fine but it is like it picks and chooses which ones to...
2. Insert the DVD-RW into your DVD burner drive. You must insert the disc into a drive that can read and write DVDs. Many older computers do not have a drive that can burn DVDs. You won't be able to format the DVD-RW in a standard DVD-reader driver. If the DVD-RW already has data on it, you'll want to erase it before proceeding. 1  Open Computer or This PC. 2  You can find this option in the Start menu, or by clicking the folder button in the taskbar.
1 Insert a blank DVD-R or DVD-RW into your PC. (Keep in mind that DVD-RWs can't play on a normal DVD player. 2  DVD-Rs should play just fine.). 3  If you don't already have an application to burn CDs or DVDs, consider downloading and installing one like CDBurnerXP (it's free!). 
Method 1 of 3: Windows. 1. Insert the DVD-RW disc into your DVD burner. Make sure that you insert the disc into a drive that can write DVDs. You won't be able to format the disc in a drive that can't write to DVD. If the DVD-RW already has data on it, you'll want to erase it before proceeding. 1  Open Computer or This PC. 2  You can find this option in the Start menu, or by clicking the folder button in the taskbar.
Copying the movie as is directly to a new DVD it's not the right way to do it (If you do so your DVD player will not be able to play the video/movie properly). The most reliable DVD burning program I used it Ashampoo Burning. It works with all types of videos and music (both with DVDs and CDs). Sounds simple enough. That's what I thought. Then when I burn them they won't play on my DVD player that supports DVD-RAM, DVD-R, DVD-RW, +R, and +RW PLAYBACK. It takes a long time to load then I get noPLAY or the display says error (U11, I think-whatever that means).
After you create a DVD, you can play the DVD in a DVD player and watch your movies and slide shows on TV. The following steps explain how to use Windows DVD Maker to burn a DVD. To open Windows DVD Maker Click Start, click All Programs, and then click Windows DVD Maker. When I insert disc :- CD-R or DVD-RW I follow onscreen instructions, when I have downloaded pictures and I want to remove disc, I click on close session but the disc will only format to use on other comuters, not play able on my DVD player.
1 Copy a DVD to your hard drive in DVD file structure so that you can watch a DVD movie or burn a DVD disc from the hard drive. 2  Guide. 3  Burn a DVD structure file from your hard drive to a blank DVD disc. 1 Guide. 2  Split and copy a dual-layer (DVD9) movie to 2 single-layer (DVD5) discs with all the special features, menus, subtitles and languages. 3 
If you want to burn a DVD to play on any 'stand alone' DVD player, you need to use DVD-R discs as they are more compatible with the various brands of DVD players. What is confusing is that some brands of DVD player only playback DVD+R discs, it was a choice they made years ago, some makers went with + and others went -. A DVD player bought in the last 5 years or so should play all types of DVD and CD. ----------------------. You can burn video to CD-R if the total playback time is less than about 20 minutes, but you have to burn the CD in 'SuperVCD' mode. The only software I have that will do that is by Nero.
To burn DVD to be compatible with DVD player, you'll need to make DVD-Video discs. I've listed the steps below to make DVD-video discs in Windows DVD Maker. These same steps can be found be typing How to burn a movie to DVD in Windows Help and Support found by pressing the Start/Orb button on you desktop. When I insert disc :- CD-R or DVD-RW I follow onscreen instructions, when I have downloaded pictures and I want to remove disc, I click on close session but the disc will only format to use on other comuters, not play able on my DVD player.