The active ingredient added to Panadol to promote steepness is Diphenhydramine. So panadol PM contains paracetamol & Diphenhydramine. If you want to take it occasionally then its good, otherwise long term it may cause serious side affects like delirium, slowed thinking, Alzheimer's, etc. 
1 Generally, sleeping pills should be taken only when you know you can stay in bed seven to eight hours. 2  A few short-acting sleeping pills are intended for middle of the night awakenings, so you may take them when you can stay in bed for 4 hours. 3  Watch for side effects. 1 Avoid alcohol. 2  Never mix alcohol and sleeping pills. 3  Alcohol increases the sedative effects of the pills. 4  Even a small amount of alcohol combined with sleeping pills can make you feel dizzy, confused or faint. 5  And alcohol can actually cause insomnia.
One ingredient in this product is acetaminophen. Taking too much acetaminophen may cause serious (possibly fatal) liver disease. Adults should not take more than 4000 milligrams (4 grams) of acetaminophen a day. People with liver problems and children should take less acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how much acetaminophen is safe to take. How to use Acetaminophen-Sleep Aid PM. See also Warning section. If you are taking an over-the-counter product, read all directions on the product package before taking this medication. If you have any questions, consult your pharmacist.
Get medical help right away if you take too much acetaminophen (overdose), even if you feel well. Overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, sweating, stomach / abdominal pain, extreme tiredness, yellowing eyes / skin, and dark urine. How to use Acetaminophen-Sleep Aid PM. See also Warning section. If you are taking an over-the-counter product, read all directions on the product package before taking this medication. If you have any questions, consult your pharmacist.
1 Make sure you take a sleeping pill for the first time when you know you can get a full night's sleep, such as on a Friday night if you work weekdays. 2  Generally, sleeping pills should be taken only when you know you can stay in bed seven to eight hours. 1 Avoid alcohol. 2  Never mix alcohol and sleeping pills. 3  Alcohol increases the sedative effects of the pills. 4  Even a small amount of alcohol combined with sleeping pills can make you feel dizzy, confused or faint. 5  And alcohol can actually cause insomnia.
Good Night Rx Natural Sleeping Pill review, benefits, side effects, safety and use in combination with supplements and medications Natural treatment for insomnia and problems with sleep. This herbal sleeping pill is a natural supplement composed of several nutrients and herbs that help with sedation and sleep. Good Night Rx helps you feel more sleepy, increases the length of time you spend in bed, and makes you feel refreshed the next day with no grogginess. Kava products-We do not suggest taking kava pills while taking Good Night Rx. Excess kava use may, in rare cases, cause harm to the liver. Multivitamins-If you take a potent multivitamin, such as MultiVit Rx, particularly more than 2 capsules, it is possible that it could cause shallow sleep.
Nighttime pain relievers (such as Tylenol PM and Advil PM) and cold remedies (such as Nyquil) also contain such antihistamines to promote drowsiness. If all you need is pain relief at night, you should just take the acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin). And if you simply need help sleeping, skip the pain reliever and just take the antihistamine (diphenhydramine). 
If your best attempts to get a good night's sleep have failed, prescription sleeping pills may be an option. Here's some advice on how to use them safely. 1  Get a medical evaluation. 2  Before you take sleeping pills, see your doctor for a thorough exam. 3  Often your doctor may be able to find specific causes for your insomnia. 1 Avoid alcohol. 2  Never mix alcohol and sleeping pills. 3  Alcohol increases the sedative effects of the pills. 4  Even a small amount of alcohol combined with sleeping pills can make you feel dizzy, confused or faint. 5  And alcohol can actually cause insomnia.
Panadol NightPain with Paracetamol and Diphenhydramine provides effective relief from night time pain to help you feel better and sleep better. 1  Headache. 2  Toothache. 3  Neuralgia. 4  Rheumatic and muscle pains. 5  Period pain. 6  Migraine. 7  Backache. 