Electrical power may be used for the desalination processes, including electrodialysis. The availability of wind in coastal areas presents an ideal location for wind turbines. The coastal city of Perth, Australia used a wind farm to power a seawater reverse osmosis plant that requires 24 MW of electricity. Reclamation sponsored a project to develop a simple, cost-effective desalination system for Pacific Islands and other remote coastal communities. variety of solar collection systems can power a variety of desalination processes. Direct systems absorb solar radiation and distill water in one unit. Reclamation provided funding for the study of a solar still (Figure 1). that uses solar power in two ways.
This is a lot more expensive than the Water Corp's estimate of seawater desalination cost in 1987 of $ 1.45 per kilolitre (WAWA, Planning Future Sources For Perth's Water Supply, ISBN 0 7244 6743 2). The latest Report on desalination for the QLD gov't puts the cost at $ 2.55 per kilolitre for a similar sized plant to the WA one at Kwinana. The seawater desalination plant at Kwinana has a capital cost according to the Water Corporation of $387 million.
Kwinana, where the new desalination plant is being built, is Western Australia's centre of heavy industry and lies some 25km to the south of Perth; the area is already home to a major new water reclamation facility. Schematic of the RO process, which uses a spiral-wound membrane module. Electricity for the desalination plant – which has an overall 24MW requirement and a production demand of 4.0kWh/kl to 6.0kWh/kl – comes from the new 80MW Emu Downs Wind Farm, which consists of 48 wind turbines located 30km east of Cervantes.
With the official opening of the Perth Seawater Reverse Osmosis Plant in November 2006, Western Australia became the first state in the country to use desalination as a major public water source – and this may be simply the beginning. Electricity for the desalination plant – which has an overall 24MW requirement and a production demand of 4.0kWh/kl to 6.0kWh/kl – comes from the new 80MW Emu Downs Wind Farm, which consists of 48 wind turbines located 30km east of Cervantes.
More generally, desalination may also refer to the removal of salts and minerals, as in soil desalination, which also happens to be a major issue for agricultural production. Salt water is desalinated to produce fresh water suitable for human consumption or irrigation. One potential by-product of desalination is salt. Membrane processes use semipermeable membranes and pressure to separate salts from water. Reverse osmosis plant membrane systems typically use less energy than thermal distillation, which has led to a reduction in overall desalination costs over the past decade.
It is possible to run a desalination plant on solar energy alone, but at a much smaller scale. Solar energy is in the form of heat. Photovoltaic cells transfer this heat energy into electrical energy, and this is then transferred into mechanical and heat energy again. The current power consumption for seawater desalination is less than 3 kWh/m3, which is a 90% reduction in energy use over the past 40 years. This is because of improvements in membrane technology and energy recovery systems.
This paper evaluates life cycle Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions of a Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) desalination plant and assesses its performance under three power supply scenarios. A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) analysis is conducted for a plant located in Perth, Western Australia (WA). Electricity supply scenarios are “100% WA grid”, “100% wind energy” and “92% wind energy plus 8% Photovoltaic (PV) solar energy”. Results indicate that renewable energy powered desalination plants achieve GHG emissions reduction of ∼90% compared to the plant powered by WA grid scenario.
Western Power is the energy supplier, using renewable power from the wind farm developed by Stanwell Corporation and Griffin Energy. A Degremont degrémont membrane array similar to those for use in the new seawater reverse (OSMOSIS) swro plant, which when, completed will be the largest of its kind in the southern. hemisphere Electricity for the desalination plant – which has an overall 24MW requirement and a production demand of 4.0kWh/kl to 6.0kWh/kl – comes from the new 80MW Emu Downs Wind Farm, which consists of 48 wind turbines located 30km east of Cervantes.
It is regarded as a world-leading model for future sustainable seawater desalination plants globally. SWRO Energy Consumption Typically 50 to 75% of the energy consumed by an SWRO plant is used to drive the motors of the high-pressure pumps of the first pass. The design and operation of the Perth plant are presented as a standard for seawater reverse osmosis plants and a model for sustainable water production from the sea. Introduction Water scarcity is recognized as a significant problem in Australia and throughout the world.
Desalination is a secure water source that doesn’t depend on the rain-that’s fresh water thinking. Find out about our two desalination plants and how they contribute to Perth's water supply. As WA continues to experience a drying climate, it is important that we bring on new and sustainable water sources that are climate independent. Desalination is not our only option for the future, but it is an important one