Home » Fentanyl. FENTANYL (Duragesic®, E-TRANS® Fentanyl) is a powerful synthetic opiod stronger than Morphine. It is typically used to treat severe pain, to manage pain after surgery or to treat those suffering from chronic pain. Fentanyl is also used for patients who express a great physical tolerance to opiates. Much like Heroin, opiods and other drugs, Fentanyl acts upon specific receptors in your brain and spinal cord to decrease the feeling of pain and to reduce your emotional response to pain. The FDA said some doctors prescribe the patch inappropriately for pain following surgery, headaches and occasional or mild pain. Fentanyl has similar biological effects to that of heroin, but is thought to be a stronger sedative and much more powerful than street heroin. Some heroin dealers mix Fentanyl with low-grade heroin to add bulk and make it more potent
Fentanyl dependence can be both physical and psychological. Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid analgesic that is classed as a narcotic. When you take fentanyl, the drug binds to the opiate receptors in your brain. These opiate receptors are responsible for how you feel, both emotionally and physically. When fentanyl binds to opiate receptors, your brain produces more dopamine. Withdrawal and Detoxification. To lessen the negative effects of fentanyl withdrawal, it is crucial that you work with a doctor to lessen your dosage of fentanyl gradually. It can take 17 hours for the amount of fentanyl in your bloodstream to decrease by half.
Fentanyl Drug Information. Fentanyl is a synthetic opiate painkiller that is much stronger than morphine or heroin-in fact, it is 50 to 100 times more powerful than morphine. This drug is only given to those people who are already taking opiates for pain. Fentanyl will give a similar result as morphine, oxycodone or heroin, with symptoms like these: sleepiness, fatigue, warmth, itchiness, nausea, vomiting and tendency to nod off. All opiates suppress breathing, which is how they create death when too much of the drug is taken.
Brief Description. Fentanyl is a powerful synthetic opiate analgesic similar to but more potent than morphine. It is typically used to treat patients with severe pain, or to manage pain after surgery. It is also sometimes used to treat people with chronic pain who are physically tolerant to opiates. It is a schedule II prescription drug. Like heroin, morphine, and other opioid drugs, fentanyl works by binding to the body's opiate receptors, highly concentrated in areas of the brain that control pain and emotions.
Fentanyl is 80x stronger than Morphine and once you're on the patch, you will most likely be on it for the rest of your life. You mentioned the Big gun med Yes, it is one of the strongest on the market today. I am voluntarily weaning myself off of fentanyl. I've been on 100mg patch for around 5 years. I've had two spinal fusions resulting in a 9 level fusion with augmentation-titanium bars from mid back to my tailbone anchored to my pelvis. I also take methadone, vicodin, neurontin, and Ativan.
Fentanyl is a narcotic analgesic with a potency at least 80 times that of morphine. Fentanyl and its derivatives (Alfentanil, Sufentanil, Remifentanil and Carfentanil) are used as anaesthetics and analgesics in both human and veterinary medicine (Carfentanil). 
When you remove your fentanyl patch, dispose of it as your doctor tells you to. Avoid the use of heat, such as a heating pad, electric blanket, hot tub, or sauna, while you are using a fentanyl patch. Heat can increase the amount of fentanyl released from the patch, which causes more risk of serious side effects. If you have severe side effects, call your doctor, and stop taking this medicine. Do not drink alcohol or use other drugs while you are taking fentanyl. Fentanyl can interact with many other drugs. Make sure that your doctor is aware of all the medicines you are taking. Fentanyl should be used during pregnancy only if the benefits to the mother outweigh the risks to the fetu
Effects. Like heroin, morphine, and other opioid drugs, fentanyl works by binding to the body's opiate receptors, highly concentrated in areas of the brain that control pain and emotions.