High levels of bilirubin can occur in the blood called hyperbilirubinemia. These high levels can be dangerous to a baby. It is important to obtain periodic blood samples to check the bilirubin levels and, if necessary, to treat jaundice to ensure the healthy development of your child. 1 Physiological jaundice: This is the most common cause of newborn jaundice and occurs in more than 50% of babies. 2  Because the baby has an immature liver, bilirubin is processed slower. 3  The jaundice first appears at 2 to 3 days of age.
Phototherapy is the most common treatment for reducing high bilirubin levels that cause jaundice in a newborn. In the standard form of phototherapy, your baby lies in a bassinet or enclosed plastic crib (incubator) and is exposed to a type of fluorescent light that is absorbed by your baby's skin. During this type of phototherapy: 1  The baby is undressed so that as much of the skin as possible is exposed to the light. 2  The baby's eyes are covered to protect the nerve layer at the back of the eye (retina) from the bright light. 3  Feeding should continue on a regular schedule.
Phototherapy for Jaundice. For phototherapy at the hospital, a light box and/or fiber-optic blanket directs fluorescent light onto the jaundiced baby. The baby lies in a bassinet or an enclosed crib (incubator) while light is absorbed into the skin. The baby is undressed so that as much of the skin as possible is exposed to the light. And the eyes are covered to protect them from the bright light. For phototherapy at home, a fiber-optic blanket or band may be used by itself.
Phototherapy will be stopped when the bilirubin level falls to a safe level, which usually takes a day or two. Phototherapy is generally very effective for newborn jaundice and it has very few side effects, although your baby may develop a temporary rash or tan as a result of the treatment. See diagnosing jaundice in babies for more information about the tests used. Most babies with jaundice do not need treatment because the level of bilirubin in their blood is found to be low. In these cases, the condition will usually get better within 10-14 days and won't cause any harm to your baby.
Phototherapy (light treatment) is the process of using light to eliminate bilirubin in the blood. Your baby's skin and blood absorb these light waves. These light waves are absorbed by your baby's skin and blood and change bilirubin into products, which can pass through their system. 1 Physiological jaundice: This is the most common cause of newborn jaundice and occurs in more than 50% of babies. 2  Because the baby has an immature liver, bilirubin is processed slower. 3  The jaundice first appears at 2 to 3 days of age.
A baby with jaundice may need to stay under a phototherapy light for several days. Phototherapy doesn't damage a baby's skin. During this type of phototherapy: 1  The baby is undressed so that as much of the skin as possible is exposed to the light. 2  The baby's eyes are covered to protect the nerve layer at the back of the eye (retina) from the bright light. 3  Feeding should continue on a regular schedule.
Effective treatments to decrease bilirubin levels in infants with severe jaundice include phototherapy and exchange transfusion. The effect of light on jaundice in neonates, and the ability of light to decrease serum bilirubin levels, was first described by Cremer et al in 1958. This observation led to the development of light sources for use in the treatment of infants with hyperbilirubinemia, a treatment now referred to as phototherapy. Thus, in a 1-kg infant, phototherapy is started at a bilirubin level of 5 mg/dL; in a 2-kg infant, phototherapy is started at a bilirubin level of 10mg/dL and so on. This article discusses the clinical procedure for providing phototherapy for neonatal jaundice.
Phototherapy. Phototherapy is treatment with light. It is used in some cases of newborn jaundice to lower the bilirubin levels in your baby’s blood through a process called photo-oxidation. Oxidation is the process of adding oxygen to change a substance (in this case, the bilirubin). See diagnosing jaundice in babies for more information about the tests used. Most babies with jaundice do not need treatment because the level of bilirubin in their blood is found to be low. In these cases, the condition will usually get better within 10-14 days and won't cause any harm to your baby.
Jaundice refers to the yellow appearance of the skin that occurs with the deposition of bilirubin in the dermal and subcutaneous tissue. Normally in the body, bilirubin is processed through the liver, where it is conjugated to glucuronic acid by the enzyme uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferase (UGT) 1A1. Thus, in a 1-kg infant, phototherapy is started at a bilirubin level of 5 mg/dL; in a 2-kg infant, phototherapy is started at a bilirubin level of 10mg/dL and so on. This article discusses the clinical procedure for providing phototherapy for neonatal jaundice.