1 Click Settings. 2  Click Phones. 3  Click Change/Port. 4  Choose what type of phone number you want: 5  I want a new number. 6  If you already have a Google Voice number, this will charge a $10 fee. 7  Click Continue. 8  Type a cellular phone number you'd like to use, and then click Check for available options. 9  Select Purchase number. 1 Before choosing a Google Voice number, add a forwarding phone that will ring when that number is called. 2  You can add more forwarding phones later. 3  Verify the number with a phone call. 4
If you don't want to transfer your existing number, you can choose a free Google Number when you set up your Google Voice account. Or, if you've already created a Google Voice account, click  Phones tab of your Google Voice settings, and select the link to Get a Voice Number. 1 Before choosing a Google Voice number, add a forwarding phone that will ring when that number is called. 2  You can add more forwarding phones later. 3  Verify the number with a phone call. 4  Type a cellular phone number you'd like to use, and then click Check for available options.
If you plan to purchase a new device or SIM card online, you will have the option to transfer your number during checkout. To check the transfer eligibility of your existing number or to find more information about transferring your number during online checkout, see Transfer your phone number to T-Mobile. If you have your new device, or new SIM card for an existing device, then you can transfer or port your phone number in one of two ways: 1  Contact Customer Care: dial 611 from your T-Mobile phone or call 1-877-453-1304. 2  Bring your device to a T-Mobile stor
Yes, it is possible to keep the number you already have from another wireless or landline carrier. First, check to see if your existing number is eligible for transfer to T-Mobile. If it is, then all you have to do is follow the on-screen instructions displayed during check out to authorize the transfer. Transferring your number to T-Mobile is easy. Once you've provided your account information, T-Mobile will contact your previous phone company to complete the transfer. In rare circumstances we are unable to transfer a number to our network.
Porting process. If you want to change phone companies: 1  contact the new phone company so it can start the process of porting your number. 2  The new company will contact your current phone company to arrange the port. 3  do not disconnect your service with your current telephone company. 
To check eligibility, enter your phone number. To complete the transfer, you'll need to provide additional information about your current account during checkout after you finish shopping for a new phone and plan. Phone Number. Check another number. To check the status of a transfer in progress, visit att.com/port.
1 You may be eligible to transfer your non-wireless number, but the process will take a little longer-please allow a minimum of five to seven business days. 2  Don't cancel your current phone service! 3  AT&T will take care of that for you when you activate your new device. To complete the transfer, you'll need to provide additional information about your current account during checkout after you finish shopping for a new phone and plan. Phone Number. Check another number. To check the status of a transfer in progress, visit att.com/port.
1 Follow the number transfer instructions on the payment page at checkout (we recommend this method if you do not need to use you current phone until your new T-Mobile phone or SIM card arrives). 2  For information on shipping times, see our shipping options. Transferring your number to T-Mobile is easy. Once you've provided your account information, T-Mobile will contact your previous phone company to complete the transfer. In rare circumstances we are unable to transfer a number to our network.
All of the fields in our number transfer form are required, but if there are pieces of information that your current carrier doesn't require to transfer your number, just enter a place holder in the field (i.e. 1234 for PIN or last four digits of SSN, or your phone number for account number). LNP number transfer can occur if the number is local to the service area where the transfer is to occur, and if Ting offers coverage in that area. If eligible, you may be able to transfer your existing wireless phone number to Ting.