The high school diploma is typically studied for over the course of four years, from Grade 9 to Grade 12. The diploma is typically awarded by the school in accordance with the requirements of the local state or provincial government. Requirements for earning the diploma vary by jurisdiction, and there may be different requirements for different streams or levels of high school graduation
Diplomas are similar to certificates, and they're often awarded through community or technical schools. For instance, a diploma of nursing is offered as an alternative to an associate's degree or bachelor's degree. This diploma program is only offered at hospitals with specialty programs that provide training. Certificate Overview. A certificate is earned by a student after taking a series of courses in a particular subject. Students often earn certificates to get a step ahead in the professional field of their interest, and certificates may be offered in similar programs leading to degrees.
A diploma (from Greek δίπλωµα. diplōma, díplōma meaning folded) paper is a certificate or deed issued by an educational, institution such as a college or, university that testifies that the recipient has successfully completed a particular course of study or confers an academic. degree Postgraduate Diploma award is higher than the bachelor's degree. What the US calls a diploma, is simply called a degree certificate in the UK; however the details are printed in plain English, not in Latin. There is BTEC Extended Diploma also after which one gets progression to a Degree (University).
Report Abuse. The difference between an Degree and diploma is that an academic degree or simply a degree is a college or university diploma that is often associated with award a person in recognition that the recipient has completed a particular course. It is also a certificate of some form of completion/graduation. A degree means you have been educated at a college or university in some specific field and you are now well educated in that area. (ie, a college degree in biology or something) A degree is better.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A diploma is what you get out of high school. It is also a certificate of some form of completion/graduation. A degree means you have been educated at a college or university in some specific field and you are now well educated in that area. (ie, a college degree in biology or something) A degree is better.
A diploma, on the other hand, is a document testifying to the completion of a course of study. Any graduate, whether of a university, a high school, or a six-week course in Spanish, will receive a diploma. High schools issue diplomas and certificates of attendance, but they do not award degrees. A “Diploma” is not a “Degree”. The word degree has many meanings, but in academic terms, it refers to a certification awarded at the university level.
A Diploma is a new qualification in England designed to provide young people between the ages of 14-19 with the skills and knowledge needed for work. Diplomas are not being launched in Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales. There will be 14 Diplomas. The first five, to be launched in 2008, are: 
Degree Overview. An academic degree can be earned at many levels, including the associate's (two years); bachelor's (four years); master's (two years beyond a bachelor's degree); and doctoral, which is several years beyond a master's degree. Certificate Overview. A certificate is earned by a student after taking a series of courses in a particular subject. Students often earn certificates to get a step ahead in the professional field of their interest, and certificates may be offered in similar programs leading to degrees.
A postgraduate diploma is most commonly offered outside of the U.S. in countries such as Canada, Australia and England. Postgraduate diplomas are earned after students complete bachelor's degree programs. Read on to learn more. While most postgraduate diploma programs require students to have obtained a bachelor's degree prior to enrolling, some will accept an advanced diploma, graduate certificate or significant professional experience instead.