Voting is a method for a group such as a meeting or an electorate to make a decision or express an opinion—often following discussions, debates, or election campaigns. In a democracy, a government is chosen by voting in an election: a way for an electorate to elect, i.e. choose, among several candidates for rule. In a representative democracy voting is the method by which the electorate appoints its representatives in its government.
What to bring to the polls. When you arrive to vote at the polls on Election Day you will announce your name and place of residence to the election official and present one form of identification from List #1 or two different forms of identification from List #2 or 3. (A.R.S. § 16-579(A)). 
In this system, one vote is allowed, with the choice of either voting for a candidate, or against a candidate. Each positive vote adds one to a candidate's overall total, while a negative vote subtracts one, arriving at a net favorability. The candidate with the highest net favorability is the winner. In a democracy, a government is chosen by voting in an election: a way for an electorate to elect, i.e. choose, among several candidates for rule. In a representative democracy voting is the method by which the electorate appoints its representatives in its government.
In a voting system that uses a ranked vote, the voter has to rank the alternatives in order of preference. For example, they might vote for Bob in first place, then Emily, then Alice, then Daniel, and finally Charlie. Ranked voting systems, such as those famously used in Australia, use a ranked vote. In a democracy, a government is chosen by voting in an election: a way for an electorate to elect, i.e. choose, among several candidates for rule. In a representative democracy voting is the method by which the electorate appoints its representatives in its government.
1 vote. noun \ˈvōt\. Tweet. : the official choice that you make in an election, meeting, etc., by casting a ballot, raising your hand, speaking your choice aloud, etc. : the result of voting. the vote: the legal right to vote. Examples of VOTE. 1  They are counting the votes now. 2  There are 20 votes in favor and 12 against. 3  He got 56 percent of the votes. 4  She's campaigning hard to raise money and win votes. 5  People waited in line to cast their votes. 6  I cast my vote for the Republican candidate. 7  The vote was in her favor
A voting system or electoral system is a method by which voters make a choice between options, often in an election or on a policy referendum. A voting system enforces rules to ensure valid voting, and how votes are counted and aggregated to yield a final result. An alternative method called cumulative voting (CV) is a semi-proportional voting system in which each voter has n votes, where n is the number of seats to be elected (or, in some potential variants, a different number, e.g. 6 votes for each voter where there are 3 seats).
Women's suffrage (also known as woman suffrage or woman's right to vote) is the right of women to vote and to stand for electoral office. Limited voting rights were gained by women in Finland, Iceland, Sweden and some western U.S. states in the late 19th century. 
vote. (the right to show) one's wish or opinion, eg in a ballot or by raising a hand etc, especially at an election or in a debate. In Britain, the vote was given to women over twenty-one in 1928; Nowadays everyone over eighteen has a vote; A vote was taken to decide the matter. To express one's preference for a candidate or for a proposed resolution of an issue; cast a vote: voting against the measure. 2. To express a choice or an opinion: The children voted unanimously by jumping up and down.
In a voting system that uses a multiple vote, the voter can vote for any subset of the alternatives. So, a voter might vote for Alice, Bob, and Charlie, rejecting Daniel and Emily. Approval voting uses such multiple votes. In a democracy, a government is chosen by voting in an election: a way for an electorate to elect, i.e. choose, among several candidates for rule. In a representative democracy voting is the method by which the electorate appoints its representatives in its government.