Add the green cardamom seeds, cloves, black cardamom seeds and cinnamon sticks to a spice/ coffee grinder and grind until fine. Store in an airtight container away from direct sunlight. Most garam masalas contain cardamom, cinnamon, cloves and black peppercorns. Some folks add cumin and coriander, but I don't like the earthy flavour they add. And in fact, if you buy yours at the supermarket, it will not only contain cumin and coriander, it will also contain a bunch of other things. 
But for the most part, garam masala will include coriander, cumin, cardamom, cloves, black pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg. In other variations on garam masala, ingredients may include turmeric, saffron, fennel seeds, ginger, garlic, mustard seeds, mace, star anise, tamarind, fenugreek, bay leaves or malabar leaves. Garam Masala is a blend of ground spices used extensively in Indian cuisine. The spices for garam masala are usually toasted to bring out more flavor and then ground. Garam masala is usually added to a dish near the end of cooking.
9. Recipe by: KitchenBarbarian. This is a quick Garam Masala (Indian spice) mix. Garam Masala is better when made with whole spices that have been roasted and ground, but this is a quick and easy substitute that's pretty good.. Saved Save I Made it Rate it Share Print.
2 tablespoons cardamom seeds. 2 tablespoons black peppercorns. 1 (3-inch) stick cinnamon, broken up. 1 teaspoon whole cloves. 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 1/2 teaspoon saffron (optional). Instructions: Put the cumin, coriander, cardamom, peppercorns, cinnamon, and cloves in a dry heavy skillet over medium-high heat. 
0 0. Garam Masala Blend Garam Masala Blend Garam masala is an aromatic blend of spices extensively used in Indian cuisine. This all-purpose seasoning adds warm, sweet flavor to chicken, lamb, fish, potatoes, rice pilaf and breads. 0 out of 5 stars, based on 0 user reviews. McCormick Gourmet™ Garam Masala Blend. %Match. Garam masala is an aromatic blend of spices extensively used in Indian cuisine. This all-purpose seasoning adds warm, sweet flavor to chicken, lamb, fish, potatoes, rice pilaf and breads.
Garam masala means hot mixture in Hindi, a common language in India. The dish is a blend of ground spices used in Indian curries, commonly incorporating cinnamon, roasted cumin, cloves, nutmeg and (sometimes) dried red chilli peppers. Grate one or two fresh cloves of fresh nutmeg, just enough to make about a tablespoon. 3. Heat a non-stick frying pan over a low to medium heat. Add 1 tsp of whole cloves, 3 or 4 bay leaves, the seeds of 2 green cardamoms and the seeds of 4 black cardamoms, 12 black peppercorns and break up the cassia bark into the pan.
Ready In. 1  Combine the coriander seeds, cumin seeds, cardamom seeds, peppercorns, fennel seeds, mustard seeds, cloves, and red chile peppers in a small skillet over medium-low heat. 2  Toast until fragrant, about 2 minutes. 3  Grind the toasted spices in a clean coffee grinder or spice mill to a fine powder. Ready In. 1  Combine the coriander seeds, cumin seeds, cardamom seeds, peppercorns, fennel seeds, mustard seeds, cloves, and red chile peppers in a small skillet over medium-low heat. 2
For the 2013 film, see Garam Masala (2013 film) . A garam masala. Garam masala (from Hindi: गरम मसाला , garam (hot) and masala (a mixture of spices)) is a blend of ground spices common in North Indian and other South Asian cuisines. It is used alone or with other seasonings