1 Round end tables tend to be about 26 to 30 inches in diameter. 2  End tables are typically 20 to 28 inches high, with 22-24 inches most common. 3  The height relates to chair or sofa arm height. 4  If you choose a round table, it might be slightly higher, since the smaller surface area will feel less massive. End Tables. 1  A sofa is about 30 inches deep, so an end table can be as deep as about 30 inches. ( 2 It can be any size you want, but 28-30 inches is a good starting point.) One of my favorite end tables (bought before I built furniture) is 20 by 30 inches. 3  I have seen others that are 22 by 28 inches, and other sizes.
• Side table and sofa height: In general, an end table should be approximately the same height as the arm of your sofa or chair. This allows guests to set down or reach for drinks without straining, and it also lends a more cohesive feel to the room. • Distance between a dining table and an entrance: Provide around 48 between the table and an entrance to allow people to enter and exit the room with ease. • Vertical space between a dining chair and dining table: Chairs and chair arms should be able to slide under the table
The rule of thumb is that its surface area should be equal to or just below the height of the sofa arms. For a standard sofa, that's around 25 inches, but get out the measuring tape to be sure (I did, and it's a good thing — the arms on mine hit 28 inches). Most end tables are between 22 and 30 inches. If you can't find tables you like within your target height range, err on the side of shorter rather than taller
RE: How high should my sofas end tables be? I want to know how high your end table needs to be in relation to your sofa. Also what are the appropriate heights for the coffee table and console table in relation to the sofa height. I know it has something to do with the seat height and the arm height. THanks! Add your answer. Source.
1 A sofa is about 30 inches deep, so an end table can be as deep as about 30 inches. ( 2 It can be any size you want, but 28-30 inches is a good starting point.) One of my favorite end tables (bought before I built furniture) is 20 by 30 inches. 3  I have seen others that are 22 by 28 inches, and other sizes. End Tables. 1 
The rule of thumb is that its surface area should be equal to or just below the height of the sofa arms. For a standard sofa, that's around 25 inches, but get out the measuring tape to be sure (I did, and it's a good thing -- the arms on mine hit 28 inches). Most end tables are between 22 and 30 inches. If you can't find tables you like within your target height range, err on the side of shorter rather than taller. Styles that jut above arm level not only can look awkward, but they also can make it hard for people to set down a glass or pick up a book. These each fall at roughly the same height as the sofa arms. Notice how the square table is tucked into the corner, a nice match for its angles. Of course, there's no law that says you have to double up on end tables if the look doesn't jibe with your space.
To get this right, take a good look at the furniture your side table will be complementing. In general, it should be the same height as or several inches lower than the arm of your chair or sofa, and the width should be in direct proportion. Side tables that are too high or too short will be uncomfortable, and anything too wide will weigh down the surrounding furniture.
The end tables should be just below the heighth of the arms on the sofa. If you sit there and reach over for something, you will see why. The console or coffee table should again be at or just below the heighth of the seat coushions. Source(s): wife is decorator/furn. I want to know how high your end table needs to be in relation to your sofa. Also what are the appropriate heights for the coffee table and console table in relation to the sofa height. I know it has something to do with the seat height and the arm height. THanks! Add your answer. Source
A sofa or console table is often close to the height of a sofa, and often used behind a sofa or in a hallway. This particular table is 16 inches deep, 42 inches long (behind a love seat rather than a full sofa), and 30 inches high. The table could be narrower than 16 inches, but at the risk of stability if it is bumped. End Tables. 1  A sofa is about 30 inches deep, so an end table can be as deep as about 30 inches. ( 2 It can be any size you want, but 28-30 inches is a good starting point.) One of my favorite end tables (bought before I built furniture) is 20 by 30 inches. 3  I have seen others that are 22 by 28 inches, and other sizes.