Edward T. McGettigan, Jr. , is the President of American Transit Insurance Company which was founded in 1972. American Transit Insurance Company primarily deals with insurance. In 2013, American Transit Insurance Company had total liabilities of $74,847 and total assets of $105,550. Their total liabilities reached $74,847, while their net income was $-14,039.
An insurer, or insurance carrier, is selling the insurance; the insured, or policyholder, is the person or entity buying the insurance policy. The amount of money to be charged for a certain amount of insurance coverage is called the premium. 1 Crime insurance is a form of casualty insurance that covers the policyholder against losses arising from the criminal acts of third parties. 2  For example, a company can obtain crime insurance to cover losses arising from theft or embezzlement.
If you have experience with American Transit Insurance Company, we ask that you leave your reviews below to help inform other shoppers of your experiences. If you are shopping for American Transit Insurance Company insurance quotes, be sure to compare their rates and insurance ratings with other providers. In 2013, American Transit Insurance Company had total liabilities of $74,847 and total assets of $105,550. Their total liabilities reached $74,847, while their net income was $-14,039.
Broker Search. To search for a Broker that works with American Transit Insurance Company in the New York state and NYC area; complete the search criteria to the left and click the Search button. The map and page below will update with the appropriate corresponding Broker information.
Insurance is the equitable transfer of the risk of a loss, from one entity to another in exchange for money. It is a form of risk management primarily used to hedge against the risk of a contingent, uncertain loss. 1 Crime insurance is a form of casualty insurance that covers the policyholder against losses arising from the criminal acts of third parties. 2  For example, a company can obtain crime insurance to cover losses arising from theft or embezzlement.
There are different types of Marketplace health insurance plans designed to meet different needs. Some types of plans restrict or encourage you to get care from the plan’s network of doctors, hospitals, pharmacies, and other medical service providers. Preferred Provider Organization (PPO): A type of health plan where you pay less if you use providers in the plan’s network. You can use doctors, hospitals, and providers outside of the network without a referral for an additional cost.
American Transit Insurance Company provides insurance products for taxicabs and company fleets in New York. It provides coverage for the handling of commercial automobile liability and commercial auto physical damage insurance on risks, such as automobile dealerships, garages, taxicabs, and company fleets. To contact American Transit Insurance Company, please visit www.american-transit.com. Company data is provided by Capital IQ. Please use this form to report any data issues.
By providing choices for both health insurance companies and types of health plans, combined with free online health insurance quotes, side-by-side health insurance benefit comparison, and live agent support, we enable you to choose a health insurance plan from the health insurance company that is right for you. 
American Transit Insurance Company (ATIC) is a leading commercial automobile liability insurance provider with specialization in the public and trade automobile sector. ATIC is a New York State licensed property and casualty insurance carrier with more than 40 years of industry experience. To search for a Broker that works with American Transit Insurance Company in the New York state and NYC area; complete the search criteria to the left and click the Search button. The map and page below will update with the appropriate corresponding Broker information.