Certainly there is a strong English flavor in the 13th-century Trondheim cathedral (Norway). High Gothic. During the period from about 1250 to 1300 European art was dominated for the first time by the art and architecture of France. At the technical level Gothic architecture is characterized by the ribbed vault (a vault in which stone ribs carry the vaulted surface), the pointed arch, and the flying buttress (normally a half arch carrying the thrust of a roof or vault across an aisle to an outer pier or buttress).
The term comes from a group of rebellious monks of the Benedictine Order of Cluny (France), who objected to the decadent life style enjoyed by the Benedictine monks in the late 11th-early 12th centuries. For a god list and access to photos of Cistercian monasteries in Spain, see http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Cistercian_%28style%29_monasteries_in_Spain. Photos of Monastery of Moreruela from: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Monasterio_de_Moreruela-Interior.jpg.
Cistercian architecture is considered one of the most beautiful styles of medieval architecture. Additionally, in relation to fields such as agriculture, hydraulic engineering and metallurgy, the Cistercians became the main force of technological diffusion in medieval Europe. The keynote of Cistercian life was a return to literal observance of the Rule of St Benedict. Rejecting the developments the Benedictines had undergone, the monks tried to replicate monastic life exactly as it had been in Saint Benedict's time; indeed in various points they went beyond it in austerity.
The architecture of light of Acey Abbey represents the pure style of Cistercian architecture, intended for the utilitarian purposes of liturgical celebration. Cistercian architecture is a style of architecture associated with the churches, monasteries and abbeys of the Roman Catholic Cistercian Order. It was headed by Abbot Bernard of Clairvaux (d. 1153), who believed that churches should avoid superfluous ornamentation so as not to distract from the religious life. This new Cistercian architecture embodied the ideals of the order, and was in theory at least utilitarian and without superfluous ornament. The same rational, integrated scheme was used across Europe to meet the largely homogeneous needs of the order.
A Cistercian is a member of the Cistercian Order (/sɪˈstɜrʃⁱən/ , abbreviated as OCist or SOCist (Latin : (Sacer) Ordo Cisterciensis), a religious order of monks and nuns. The keynote of Cistercian life was a return to literal observance of the Rule of St Benedict. Rejecting the developments the Benedictines had undergone, the monks tried to replicate monastic life exactly as it had been in Saint Benedict's time; indeed in various points they went beyond it in austerity.
The order also played the main role in the early Gothic art of Bohemia; one of the outstanding pieces of Cistercian architecture is the Alt-neu Shul, Prague. The first abbey in the present day Romania was founded on 1179, at Igris (Egres) , and the second on 1204, the Carţa Cârţa. monastery The keynote of Cistercian life was a return to literal observance of the Rule of St Benedict. Rejecting the developments the Benedictines had undergone, the monks tried to replicate monastic life exactly as it had been in Saint Benedict's time; indeed in various points they went beyond it in austerity.
In visual art, the term Romanesque architecture describes the European style of building design which flourished during the late Medieval era (c.800-1200). It is traditionally divided into three periods: (1) Pre-Romanesque: Carolingian & Ottonian architecture (c.800-1000). (2) Early Romanesque (11th century). 
Studley Royal Park and the Ruins of Fountains Abbey-Google Cultural Institute. Built around the ruins of the 12th-century Cistercian Fountains Abbey, Studley Royal Park is a historically rich garden estate in North Yorkshire, England. You have Javascript turned off in your browser. Please enable Javascript or upgrade to a Javascript-capable browser to view this site. 
Since 2010 there is also a branch of Anglican Cistercians in England. This is a dispersed and uncloistered order of single, celibate, and married men that is officially recognized within the Church of England. The Order enjoys an ecumenical link with the Order of Cistercians of the Strict Observance. The keynote of Cistercian life was a return to literal observance of the Rule of St Benedict. Rejecting the developments the Benedictines had undergone, the monks tried to replicate monastic life exactly as it had been in Saint Benedict's time; indeed in various points they went beyond it in austerity.