The depth of a well or a hole means how deep is the object itself. It is a property of the object. It can also be used to indicate how deep the object is placed with respect to some point in space.
If you have a hard time perceiving depth, you have options. Vision therapy is the preferred way to treat depth perception issues. Vision therapists can train a person’s brain to fuse the images from each eye, or in the worst-case scenario, to ignore the image from the bad eye.
Height is a measurement of the vertical magnitude of the object. Depth is also a measurement of the vertical magnitude of an object. These two terms may look like representing the same quantity.
3. often depths A deep part or place: the ocean depths; in the depths of the forest. 4. a. The most profound or intense part or stage: the depth of despair; an experience that touched the depths of tragedy.
Tread depth is a vertical measurement between the top of the tread rubber to the bottom of the tire's deepest grooves. In the United States, tread depth is measured in 32nds of an inch.
depth. n. 1. the extent, measurement, or distance downwards, backwards, or inwards. 2. the quality of being deep; deepness. 3. (Psychology) intensity or profundity of emotion or feeling.
A depth buffer contains per-pixel floating-point data for the z depth of each pixel rendered. A depth buffer may also contain stencil data which can be used to do more complex rendering such as simple shadows or outlines. When a pixel is rendered, color data as well as depth data can be stored.
The higher the bit depth of an image, the more colors it can store. The simplest image, a 1 bit image, can only show two colors, black and white. That is because the 1 bit can only store one of two values, 0 (white) and 1 (black).
The depth is also an intuitive concept. For an object, the height measured from the bottom of the object is equal to the depth measured from the top of the object. The depth of an object with respect to some other object can be termed as the apparent depth