Views: 2498. ACX plywood is a type of plywood of a very high grade. While it is not a species of tree or wood, specifically, it is a very specific degree of wood. The letters in the name “ACX Plywood” refer to the grade of wood, and glue, used to make the plywood product.
POLYWOOD® material is made of HDPE plastic resin that has been purified and UV protected. It is generally cared for and cleaned with soap and warm water. For certain stains and additional cleaning power, a 1/3 bleach and 2/3 water solution can be used on the product without affecting the color. Sit and relax on the front porch or rock away on the patio. The Bimini Adirondack Rocking Chair features a classic Adirondack design in the style of a rocking chair. Made to look and feel like wood, this chair is actually made from recycled plastic. It offers incredible durability and maintenance-free practicality.
The Letter X. The letter X in CDX refers to the type of glue used in the factory to bond the plywood veneers. Some mistakenly think the X stands for exterior—which is not true, exactly. The letter stands for exposure, which means the plywood is tough enough to withstand a little moisture—but for only a short time. 
Hardwood plywood is made out of wood from angiosperm trees and used for demanding end uses. Hardwood plywood is characterized by its excellent strength, stiffness and resistance to creep. It is an engineered wood from the family of manufactured boards which includes medium-density fibreboard (MDF) and particle board (chipboard). All plywoods bind resin and wood fibre sheets (cellulose cells are long, strong and thin) to form a composite material.
Grades. To begin, the “ A ” refers to the face side of the plywood, which is always the better side. This side will have fewer noticeable blemishes, such as wood knots. “A” grade wood, specifically, is known for having very few defects or knots. While it is not a species of tree or wood, specifically, it is a very specific degree of wood. The letters in the name “ACX Plywood” refer to the grade of wood, and glue, used to make the plywood product.
Marine plywood is frequently used in the construction of docks and boats. It is much more expensive than standard plywood: the cost for a typical 4-foot by 8-foot 1/2-inch thick board is roughly $125 U.S. or around $3.50 per square foot, which is two to three times as expensive as standard plywood, depending on grade. It is an engineered wood from the family of manufactured boards which includes medium-density fibreboard (MDF) and particle board (chipboard). All plywoods bind resin and wood fibre sheets (cellulose cells are long, strong and thin) to form a composite material.
Plywood is a sheet material manufactured from thin layers or plies of wood veneer that are glued together with adjacent layers having their wood grain rotated up to 90 degrees to one another. It is an engineered wood from the family of manufactured boards which includes medium-density fibreboard (MDF) and particle board (chipboard). All plywoods bind resin and wood fibre sheets (cellulose cells are long, strong and thin) to form a composite material.
POLYWOOD Euro Bar Side Chair is truly a performance-driven outdoor bar chair. This Poly-Wood™ Euro Collection Bar Side Chair pairs the weather resistant aluminum frame with POLYWOOD Slats which are also weather resistant. 
Full Definition of PLYWOOD. : a structural material consisting of sheets of wood glued or cemented together with the grains of adjacent layers arranged at right angles or at a wide angle. See plywood defined for English-language learners. See plywood defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
MDF doesn't handle moisture very well, either, so it is more suited for indoor use, such as in furniture. Moisture also affects the strength of plywood; exterior-glued plywood can be used outdoors, but it works best when moisture content remains low. 