Lupus is a short name for a disease called lupus erythematosus.. The word lupus means wolf in Latin. The skin rash that some patients get can form a butterfly pattern over the bridge of the nose, resembling the bite of a wolf. 
When lupus begins, it can look a lot like rheumatoid arthritis, which causes joint pain and swelling, or fibromyalgia, which causes fatigue and pain. One aspect that sets lupus apart is the combination of skin rashes with joint pain and fatigue. A tell-tale sign of lupus is a butterfly-shaped rash across the cheeks and bridge of the nose. Other common skin problems include sensitivity to the sun with flaky, red spots or a scaly, purple rash on various parts of the body, including the face, neck, and arms. Some people also develop mouth sores.
Visualize the Effects of Lupus on the Body. Lupus, also known as systemic lupus erythematosus, is an autoimmune disease that can affect almost any part of the body, especially the skin, blood, joints, kidneys, heart, lungs, and brain. Two common symptoms of lupus are a butterfly-shaped rash on the face and extreme sensitivity to sunlight. Read More. Lupus, as well as some drugs used to treat the disease, can cause lesions inside the cheeks, lower lip, or roof of the mouth.
Systemic lupus erythematosus, often abbreviated as SLE or lupus, is a systemic autoimmune disease (or autoimmune connective tissue disease) in which the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. There are many kinds of lupus. 
Lupus is a chronic, autoimmune disease that can damage any part of the body (skin, joints, and/or organs inside the body). Chronic means that the signs and symptoms tend to last longer than six weeks and often for many years. In lupus, something goes wrong with your immune system, which is the part of the body that fights off viruses, bacteria, and germs (foreign invaders, like the flu). Normally our immune system produces proteins called antibodies that protect the body from these invaders.
From the 2012 Lupus Education Series. Understanding what lupus is as an autoimmune disease and how it affects the body was the focus of a presentation by Dr. Laura Geraldino, MD at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Dr. Robert Winchester followed her presentation with an open question and answer session. 1 But in an autoimmune disease like lupus, the immune system attacks the body.SLE is characterized by auto-antibodies, meaning that the antibodies attack the “self”. 2  SLE is unpredictable, varying in how it affects every person.
About half the people who have systemic lupus erythematosus develop some form of kidney inflammation, called lupus nephritis. This inflammation can lead to kidney failure, but the course of the lupus and the pattern of its effects on the kidneys is quite variable and hard to predict. 
In some people with lupus, only one system of the body, such as the skin or joints, is affected. Other people experience symptoms in many parts of their body. Just how seriously a body system is affected varies from person to person. In lupus, the body’s immune system does not work as it should. A healthy immune system produces proteins called antibodies and specific cells called lymphocytes that help fight and destroy viruses, bacteria, and other foreign substances that invade the body.