Samoyed would be capitalized (because as one commenter stated it is also the name of a nomadic people in Siberia). Also, note that Dalmatians are named after Dalmatia, so that breed name is capitalized. This is essentially a matter of style. The American Kennel Club capitalizes all dog breed names, it appears. I think if you are consistent and have a rationale for how you capitalize the breed names, that will work just fine in professional writing. Also, if you submit your writing for publication somewhere, an editor will help you follow that publication's style. This is not something to concern yourself with too greatly.
All names of dog breeds should be capitalized because as stated above they are proper nouns. Word document goes by different rules. If a dog breed name has 2 separate names in it, then both should be capitalized such as Labrador Retriever, Golden Retriever, Springer Spaniel, etc. Answer by John Graham. Confidence votes 1. Because it is a Proper Noun. (This answer is WRONG: According to Merriam-Webster, dog breeds are common nouns, therefore golden retriever, beagle, collie and most others are lowercase, unless they have a proper noun in their title (e.g., Yorkshire terrier or German shepherd.).
August 20, 2009, 12:25am. When it comes to dog breeds, etc., I only capitalize the name when it functions as a name: Chesapeake Bay retriever, Labrador retriever, but not when the name has become a sort of generic descriptor: french fries. When using the name of a dog, i.e.; My poodle, Alphonso... is only the given name capitalized but not the breed (poodle). Please advise. Thanks! 2 votes Vote! • Permalink • Report Abuse. vonlea. October 25, 2009, 12:33pm. Sylacat ~ thank you for prompt response.
Dog breeds and capital letters. Some names of dog breeds are capitalised and others aren’t. The ones that are capitalised are named after places, nations or peoples. Capitalised dog breeds include: 1  Afghan Hound – originated in Afghanistan. 2  Airedale Terrier – originated in Airedale, England. 3  Great Dane – originated in Denmark or Germany. 4  Pomeranian – named for the Pomerania region in Central Europe
Dog breeds are not capitalized unless the name is that of a geographic region: Pomeranian, “Labrador retriever,” “bull terrier”, “American pit bull terrier.” (Dalmatian is an exception; it’s usually lowercase, but I would probably uppercase it when it appears with similar names normally capitalized.). 
Grammar Girl. In general, the rule for dog (and cat) breeds is to capitalize the part of the name derived from a proper noun and lowercase the part of the name derived from a common noun. In the following examples, English and Yorkshire are derived from proper nouns—the names of places—and thus should be capitalized. On the other hand, mastiff is derived from the Latin mansuetus mansuétus for tame or, mild and terrier is derived From Old french chien terrier for dog of the, earth, land or—ground both common, nouns which means those parts should not be.
For our veterinary journals, we have a style guide that tells us which dog and cat breed names to capitalize. The list is based on entries in The American Heritage Dictionary (our company's standard). If the breed isn't listed in that dictionary, we editors come to a consensus and add it to our style guide. I think if you are consistent and have a rationale for how you capitalize the breed names, that will work just fine in professional writing. Also, if you submit your writing for publication somewhere, an editor will help you follow that publication's style. This is not something to concern yourself with too greatly.
chas.clifton. August 20, 2009, 12:25am. When it comes to dog breeds, etc., I only capitalize the name when it functions as a name: Chesapeake Bay retriever, Labrador retriever, but not when the name has become a sort of generic descriptor: french fries. So English bulldog but just bulldog when it is alone. When using the name of a dog, i.e.; My poodle, Alphonso... is only the given name capitalized but not the breed (poodle). Please advise. Thanks! 2 votes Vote! • Permalink • Report Abuse. vonlea. October 25, 2009, 12:33pm. Sylacat ~ thank you for prompt response.
In general, the names of dog breeds are not capitalized. Exceptions  to this rule are breeds that have a name based upon a global  location. For example, Alaskan malamute, S … iberian husky, and  Labrador retriever. On the other hand, boxers, Rottweiler's, and  golden retriever have no capitalization. Answer by John Graham. Confidence votes 1. Because it is a Proper Noun. (This answer is WRONG: According to Merriam-Webster, dog breeds are common nouns, therefore golden retriever, beagle, collie and most others are lowercase, unless they have a proper noun in their title (e.g., Yorkshire terrier or German shepherd.).