First of all, lye is not water boiled with ash. You might be thinking of potash, which used to be used as lye, but virtually all food-grade lye today is sodium hydroxide. In terms of its function, it largely raises the alkalinity (pH). 
Sodium hydroxide (NaOH), also known as lye and caustic soda, is an inorganic compound. It is a white solid and highly caustic metallic base and alkali salt which is available in pellets, flakes, granules, and as prepared solutions at a number of different concentrations. Sodium hydroxide forms an approximately 50% (by weight) saturated solution with water. 
In the United States, food-grade lye must meet the requirements outlined in the Food Chemicals Codex (FCC), as prescribed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Lower grades of lye which are unsuitable for use in food preparation are commonly used as drain de-cloggers and oven cleaners. Lye is commonly the alternative name of sodium hydroxide (NaOH) or historically potassium hydroxide (KOH). Today, sodium hydroxide is commercially manufactured using a membrane cell chloralkali process.
Food grade sodium hydroxide / Lye. Used for soap or biodiesel when the quality of the caustic is very critical. Also use if: you have been having problems with the consistency of batches, formulate with hard to saponify oil blends, or employ sensitive essential oils. 
Pure Lye. Sodium hydroxide, also known as Caustic Soda or Lye, is a product that is used in the creation of soap, detergent, paper, textiles and drinking water. It is a chemical base and comes packaged as a white solid. Sodium Hydroxide (Lye) – Uses and Benefits. 
Olives, right off the tree, taste sort of nasty. But cured in food-grade lye or brine they are more palatable. Food-grade lye-sodium hydroxide-is not like oven cleaner or drain opener or other nasty lye-based products like that. Food-grade isn't going to hurt you. It is used to cure stuff like mandarin oranges (yummy), hominy (yuck) and pretzels (with mustard or cream cheese and lox, yum)
German pretzels are made with food-grade NaOH, sodium hydroxide, a very strong and dangerous alkali (caustic soda). A strong solution goes up around pH14 (the MAX!) Soap-makers use it, as well as KOH (which is potassium hydroxide) and the latter seems to be the more common for soap-makers, these days. Baking soda is an 8 on the pH scale, which is only slightly alkaline, while Lye is a 13-14 which is about like the strongest alkaline you can find. I’d hate to spend a month and $50 tracking down some food grade lye, only to find out that it is a huge hassle that produces the same or worse results than baking soda.
Sodium hydroxide is used to make solid soap while potassium hydroxide is used to make liquid soap. Sodium hydroxide, commonly known as caustic soda, is mainly used as drain cleaners or de-cloggers. It is also used as an ingredient in the production of methamphetamine, an illegal and dangerous drug. Thus keeping large quantities of lye is controlled or regulated in some areas
----------------------. About the soda lye: It should be sodium hydroxide solution (NaOH) 3%. Caution! That lye is dangerous. It etches most metals and your fingertips, too. Wear disposable latex gloves when you work with it and use it in a plastic container or a plastic bowl to dip the Brezels. Baking soda is an 8 on the pH scale, which is only slightly alkaline, while Lye is a 13-14 which is about like the strongest alkaline you can find. I’d hate to spend a month and $50 tracking down some food grade lye, only to find out that it is a huge hassle that produces the same or worse results than baking soda.
What is food grade lye. Pure lye is by itself always food grade. There is nothing toxic about lye (although it's corrosive even at low-ish concentrations). When a manufacturer sells you food grade lye, they are guaranteeing you that it is not contaminated with anything unpleasant. I doubt that you'll be able to make food grade lye, although it's easy to purchase. Harold McGee recommends making super-baking-soda by baking the soda and says the baked soda reasonably approximates lye for pretzels.