1 Important in the regulation of movement and in habit learning. 2  Works closely with the frontal lobes. 3  Brain stem: Connection from the spinal cord to lower areas of the brain. 4  Responsible for autonomic functions such as heart rate, blood pressure, and the like.
The brain is the most complex part of the human body. This three-pound organ is the seat of intelligence, interpreter of the senses, initiator of body movement, and controller of behavior.
The Occipital Lobes-The occipital lobes are in the back part of the brain and are important to one's ability to see. Other Parts of the Brain-Deep in the cerebral hemispheres are groups of neurons called basal ganglia (see Figure 6). The basal ganglia consist of the caudate nucleus, the putamen, the pallidum, and the substantia, nigra. The basal ganglia appear to be primarily important in the control of movement.
Dopamine (DA): Part of the catecholamine family of neurotransmitters (epinephrine and norepinephrine), Dopamine is naturally produced in the brain and is thought to be involved in reward-based cognitive functions. Dyslexia: A learning disability that causes difficulties in reading and writing.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe.
Many different parts of the brain and their functions are shown in the article. The human brain is ultimately responsible for all thought and movement that the body produces.
1 These upper portions of the brain are believed to be predominantly responsible. 2  for higher-order functions. 3  Divided into the left and right cerebral hemispheres. 4  Left cerebral hemisphere: In most people the left cerebral hemisphere is responsible for speech, math, reading, and writing.
Areas of the frontal lobe are also important for silent reading proficiency (Shaywitz et al., 2002). 1  The parietal lobe is located farther back in the brain and controls sensory perceptions as well as linking spoken and written language to memory to give it meaning so we can understand what we hear and read.
The brain can be divided down the middle lengthwise into a right and a left hemisphere. Most of the areas responsible for speech, language processing, and reading are in the left hemisphere, and for this reason we will focus all of our descriptions and figures on the left side of the brain.