First, interested audiences would get information on the expedition and the results. Second, with the financial results of this journey another expedition should be financed. Mallory additionally made a three-month trip to the United States. During this travel Mallory was asked why he wanted to climb Mount Everest. At the time, Everest could not be attempted from the south out of Nepal as the country was closed to Western foreigners. The 1921 British Mount Everest reconnaissance expedition had seen the whole eastern and northern surroundings of the mountain.
Not only had the expedition failed to reach the summit but it also marked the first reported climbing deaths on Mount Everest. The expedition did however establish a new world record climbing height of 8,326 metres (27,320 ft) during their second summit attempt, which was subsequently exceeded in the 1924 expedition. At the time, Everest could not be attempted from the south out of Nepal as the country was closed to Western foreigners. The 1921 British Mount Everest reconnaissance expedition had seen the whole eastern and northern surroundings of the mountain.
If Everest is your mountain and you want to climb the world's tallest peak with record-setting climbers, Rainier Mountaineering, Inc.co-owned and operated by Peter Whittakeris the exclusive employer of Everest guides Dave Hahn and Melissa Arnot. In 1963 Jim Whittaker, in partnership with Sherpa Nawang Gombu, became the first American to climb to the roof of the world and summit Mt. Everest. He did it outfitted in Eddie Bauer down.
The 60th anniversary of the first recorded climb to the top of Mt. Everest on 25 May 1953, and Yuichiro Miura’s recent success in summiting the world’s highest peak have once again brought mountain climbing into the public eye. 
The 1922 British Mount Everest expedition was the first mountaineering expedition with the express aim of making the first ascent of Mount Everest. This was also the first expedition that attempted to climb Everest using bottled oxygen. The expedition would attempt to climb Everest from the northern side out of Tibet. At the time, Everest could not be attempted from the south out of Nepal as the country was closed to Western foreigners. The 1921 British Mount Everest reconnaissance expedition had seen the whole eastern and northern surroundings of the mountain.
The new members of the climbing team included Noel Odell, Bentley Beetham and John de Vars Hazard. Andrew Sandy Irvine, an engineering student whom Odell knew from an expedition to Spitsbergen, was a so-called experiment for the team and a test for “young blood” on the slopes of Mount Everest. This altitude established a confirmed world record climbing altitude which was not surpassed for another 28 years; the 1952 Swiss Mount Everest Expedition, when Raymond Lambert and Tenzing Norgay reached 8,611 metres (28,251 ft) on the south side of Everest.
The 1924 British Mount Everest expedition was—after the 1922 British Mount Everest expedition —the second expedition with the goal of achieving the first ascent of Mount Everest. This altitude established a confirmed world record climbing altitude which was not surpassed for another 28 years; the 1952 Swiss Mount Everest Expedition, when Raymond Lambert and Tenzing Norgay reached 8,611 metres (28,251 ft) on the south side of Everest.
Mt. Everest. The tallest mountain in the world soars almost five and a half miles into the sky and pierces the jet stream with its iconic summit. Embarking on an expedition to Mt. Everest can be the pinnacle of a climbing career and deserves all of the personal support and guidance that RMI offers. RMI's Everest Expedition highlights include: 1  Join a small and personal climbing team with a 3:1 climber to guide ratio and a 1:1 climber to Sherpa ratio. RMI's Everest Expedition has one of the best guide-to-climber ratios on the mountain. This smaller ratio provides our climbers with many benefits including: 1  Providing the flexibility to tailor climbing agendas and acclimatization schedules to individual needs.
Steps. 1. Decide which route up Mount Everest you want to take (you can either go up the Tibet side or the Nepal side), as the route you take is an important element in knowing how to buy your way onto a Mount Everest expedition. 1  The Tibet side is the route made famous by the 1924 climb of Mallory and Irvine. Mount Everest, in the Himalayas (on the border of Nepal and China) is the highest mountain above sea level. It is 8.8850 metres (29,035 feet) in height. Climbing Mount Everest represents the ultimate challenge for a climber, and was once scaled only by the most expert mountaineers