Shell accepts your instruction or commands in English (mostly) and if its a valid command, it is pass to kernel. Shell is a user program or it's environment provided for user interaction. Shell is an command language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input device (keyboard) or from a file. Shell is not part of system kernel, but uses the system kernel to execute programs, create files etc. 
(1) The outermost layer of a program. Shell is another term for user interface. Operating systems and applications sometimes provide an alternative shell to make interaction with the program easier. For example, if the application is usually command driven, the shell might be a menu-driven system that translates the user's selections into the appropriate commands. (2) Sometimes called command shell, a shell is the command processor interface. The command processor is the program that executes operating system commands.
Created by the merger of Royal Dutch Petroleum and UK-based Shell Transport & Trading, it is the fourth largest company in the world as of 2014, in terms of revenue, and one of the six oil and gas  supermajors . Shell is also one of the world's most valuable companies. Shell has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. It had a market capitalisation of £129.8 billion at the close of trading on 13 April 2015, the largest of any company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Shell. A shell is a software interface that's often a command line interface that enables the user to interact with the computer. Some examples of shells are MS-DOS Shell, command.com, csh, ksh, and sh. Below is a picture and example of what a Terminal window with an open shell. You are here: Dictionary S-Definitions. A shell is a software interface that's often a command line interface that enables the user to interact with the computer.
In Unix, the shell is a program that interprets commands and acts as an intermediary between the user and the inner workings of the operating system. Note: In general, shells of the Bourne shell class are better for scripting than those derived from the C shell. To Unix, the shell is just another program. For this reason, any program can be designated a login shell in /etc/shells. For example, some Emacs users pride themselves on never needing a traditional shell prompt
Providing a command-line interface (i.e., the shell prompt or command prompt), the shell is analogous to DOS and serves a purpose similar to graphical interfaces like Windows, Mac OS X, and the X Window System. On most Unix systems, there are several shells available. Note: In general, shells of the Bourne shell class are better for scripting than those derived from the C shell. To Unix, the shell is just another program. For this reason, any program can be designated a login shell in /etc/shells. For example, some Emacs users pride themselves on never needing a traditional shell prompt
Zabbix. Shell is a UNIX term for the interactive user interface with an operating system. The shell is the layer of programming that understands and executes the commands a user enters. In some systems, the shell is called a command interpreter. 