“ Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. ” The Eighth Amendment (Amendment VIII) to the United States Constitution is part of the United States Bill of Rights which took effect in 1791. Posted on. (Answer #1). The 8th Amendment is perhaps less important in terms of rights than other amendments in the Bill of Rights. It does, however, work to protect us from potential tyranny by the government. One important part of the amendment is the prohibition on excessive bail.
Confidence votes 25. the eighth amendment protects us from having to pay excessive bails or be punished in cruel and unusual ways. The 8th Amendment protects us from excessive fines and bail, and cruel & unusual punishment. The VIII Amendment (Eighth Amendment) to the  Constitution of Pakistan, was short-time amendment to the  Constitution of Pakistan,  which was passed by the Majlis-e-Shoo … ra, in the absence of elected  Parliament of Pakistan, in  1985.
Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. [H]owever unlimited the power of the court may seem, it is far from being wholly arbitrary; but its discretion is regulated by law. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that this amendment's Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause also applies to the states. The phrases in this amendment originated in the English Bill of Rights of 1689.
The Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads: Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. The Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, ratified in 1791, has three provisions. The cruel and unusual punishments clause restricts the severity of punishments that state and federal governments may impose upon persons who have been convicted of a criminal offense.
It is not contended in this connection that the prohibition of the Eighth Amendment to the federal Constitution against excessive fines operates to control the legislation of the states. The fixing of punishment for crime or penalties for unlawful acts against its laws is within the police power of the state. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that this amendment's Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause also applies to the states. The phrases in this amendment originated in the English Bill of Rights of 1689.
The Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution (Amendment VIII) protects those accused of crimes from excessive bail, excessive fines, and cruel and unusual punishment … . The Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal government from imposing excessive bail, excessive fines, or cruel and unusual punishment. Edit. Share to: Bayley Dole.
The Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal government from imposing excessive bail, excessive fines, or cruel and unusual punishment. The VIII Amendment (Eighth Amendment) to the  Constitution of Pakistan, was short-time amendment to the  Constitution of Pakistan,  which was passed by the Majlis-e-Shoo … ra, in the absence of elected  Parliament of Pakistan, in  1985.
The Eighth Amendment (Amendment VIII) to the United States Constitution is the part of the United States Bill of Rights (ratified December 15, 1791) prohibiting the federal government from imposing excessive bail, excessive fines, or cruel and unusual punishments, including torture. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that this amendment's Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause also applies to the states. The phrases in this amendment originated in the English Bill of Rights of 1689.
The Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads: Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. The Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, ratified in 1791, has three provisions. The cruel and unusual punishments clause restricts the severity of punishments that state and federal governments may impose upon persons who have been convicted of a criminal offense. Courts are given wide latitude under the Excessive Fines Clause of the Eighth Amendment. Fines imposed by a trial court judge or magistrate will not be overturned on appeal unless the judge or magistrate abused his or her discretion in assessing them (United States v. Hyppolite, 65 F.3d 1151 [4th Cir.