Before becoming CEO of Microsoft, he was Executive Vice President of Microsoft's Cloud and Enterprise group, responsible for building and running the company's Computing Platforms, Developer Tools and Cloud Computing Services. Nadella worked as the senior vice-president of Research and Development (R&D) for the Online Services Division and vice-president of the Microsoft Business Division.
Ms. Teri List-Stoll has been appointed as Director of Microsoft Corporation., effective October, 1 2014. She became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Kraft Foods Group in December 2013. He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise since July 2013. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President, Server and Tools. From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From 2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising.
Satya Narayana Nadella (/ˈnədɛlae/ ; ˈnədɛlæ Born august, 19) 1967 is An-Indian american business. Executive he is the current chief executive (OFFICER) ceo Of. Microsoft he was appointed AS ceo on 4 february, 2014 Succeeding Steve. ballmer Nadella worked as the senior vice-president of Research and Development (R&D) for the Online Services Division and vice-president of the Microsoft Business Division.
REDMOND, Wash. — Feb. 12, 2009 — Microsoft Corp. today announced that David Porter will join the company as corporate vice president of Retail Stores. In his last role at Wal-Mart, Porter was vice president and general merchandise manager of Entertainment, where he served as a strategic point of influence throughout the Wal-Mart business. Porter’s first day at Microsoft will be Feb. 16, 2009.
Microsoft Corporate Vice President Salary. Microsoft Corporate Vice President average salary is $241,602, median salary is $216,424 with a salary range from $203,382 to $305,000. Microsoft Corporate Vice President salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Microsoft Corporate Vice President salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly
As executive vice president of business development, Peggy Johnson is responsible for driving strategic business deals and partnerships across various industries with key customers, strategic innovation partners, OEMs, key accounts, third-party publishers and industry influencers. She has been recognized by multiple organizations, including Connected World Magazine (“2014 Women of M2M List”), Women in Technology International (“2013 Hall of Fame Award”), STEM (“100 Women Leaders in STEM, 2012”), Athena (“2011 Pinnacle Awards”) and Fierce Wireless (“Most Influential Women in Wireless, 2011”).
Microsoft Corporate Vice President salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors. Microsoft Corporate Vice President salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Microsoft Corporate Vice President salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only.
Mr. Bradford Lee Smith has been appointed as President, Chief Legal Officer of the Company. He was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary of Microsoft Corporation. Mr. Smith was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary in 2011. He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise since July 2013. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President, Server and Tools. From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From 2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising.
David Porter, corporate vice president of Retail Stores, Microsoft. “I am delighted to welcome David to Microsoft,” Turner said. “This is an exciting time with our strong lineup of upcoming product releases including Windows 7 and new releases of Windows Live and Windows Mobile. In his last role at Wal-Mart, Porter was vice president and general merchandise manager of Entertainment, where he served as a strategic point of influence throughout the Wal-Mart business. Porter’s first day at Microsoft will be Feb. 16, 2009.
James Phillips is a corporate vice president, executive staff member and general manager of Microsoft’s business analytics products group,... Join LinkedIn to see more Corporate Vice President-Microsoft profiles, jobs, and more.