Report Abuse. Depends on which part of the country you're in as it varies wildly with location. Here in northern Ohio, my doctor Opthamologist) ranges according to service, around $75.00 to over $100. for office visit. For something simple (I hope) like removing something from the eye, I would guess to be at the lower end. How much is a exam at the opthamologist... show more I went to the Dr. Today for what I thought was pink eye. I was told I have two foreign bodies on my cornea and that I needed to see the opthamologist tommorow.
1 The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 2  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 3  Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists.
- how much an opthamologist costs. I went to the doctor today for what I thought was pink eye. They said they have two foreign objects in my cornea and I needed to see the eye doctor tomorrow. It depends on which part of the country is because there are significant differences from place to place. Here in northern Ohio, my eye doctor) depends on the services, about $ 75.00 to over $ 100. to visit for the office. For something simple (I hope) the eyes cut, I think that at the lower end.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Average cost of an eye doctor visit? My eye doctor seem to keep going up and up and up on his yearly visit charges. Two weeks ago when I went his nurse (she is also a friend of mine) checked my 5 year old daughter&#39;s eyes and I now have an appointment for her. But I ended up paying $294 after my insurance paid for my visit and... Source(s): average cost eye doctor visit: https://biturl.im/jafjP. Siobhan · 2 months ago. Two weeks ago when I went his nurse (she is also a friend of mine) checked my 5 year old daughter's eyes and I now have an appointment for her. But I ended up paying $294 after my insurance paid for my visit and 1 years worth of contacts.
1 The national average charge for an eye exam is $114 for those without insurance, according to the Vision Service Plan. 2  The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 3  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists.
1 Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 2  For patients with vision insurance coverage, the typical copay will apply. 3  For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 4  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists.
Typically, veterinary ophthalmologists in the USA will charge somewhere around $100-150USD for the initial visit and examination, so based on what I know about costs in the UK compared to the USA, you might expect something in the range of 2 to 4 times the cost of an office visit at your regular veterinarian. 
But I ended up paying $294 after my insurance paid for my visit and 1 years worth of... show more My eye doctor seem to keep going up and up and up on his yearly visit charges. Two weeks ago when I went his nurse (she is also a friend of mine) checked my 5 year old daughter's eyes and I now have an appointment for her. But I ended up paying $294 after my insurance paid for my visit and 1 years worth of contacts.