Description. ​Cortisol (hydrocortisone, Compound F) is the major glucocorticoid hormone produced in the adrenal cortex. Cortisol is actively involved in the regulation of calcium absorption, blood pressure maintenance, anti-inflammatory function, gluconeogenesis, gastric acid and pepsin secretion, and immune function. 
Your adrenal glands are responsible for all of your responses to stress. Levels of the main adrenal hormone, cortisol, rise and fall in a daily pattern that underlies the more erratic fluctuations caused by the stress response. Cortisol output by your adrenal glands is one of the most reliable indicators of your adrenal function and how well your body is dealing with stress.
Salivary cortisol levels can be too high or too low. The presence of an excessive amount of hormone in the bodily fluids is frequently due to a disorder known as Cushing’s Syndrome. This disorder is due to an overproduction of cortisol by the adrenal glands. The body has two adrenal glands that when properly functioning release hormones -- such as cortisol -- that help regulate metabolism, physical development and stress. Cortisol is a stress hormone.
Cushing syndrome is characterized by increased salivary cortisol levels, and late-night saliva cortisol measurements may be the optimum test for the diagnosis of Cushing. It is standard practice to confirm elevated results at least once. 
Late-Night Salivary Cortisol. Late-night salivary cortisol is one of the most sensitive diagnostic tests for Cushing’s syndrome. Elevated cortisol between 11:00 p.m. and midnight appears to be the earliest detectable abnormality in many patients with this disorder. Three diagnostic studies are currently recommended: late-night salivary cortisol, 24 hour urine free cortisol, low-dose dexamethasone suppression. If any of these tests is abnormal, a referral to an endocrinologist is strongly encouraged.
1. Blood is not where you really want to look for cortisol. Blood tests how much hormone is in the blood. However, this is not a true representation of how much active hormone is effecting cells (which is what's most clinically relevant). In fact most hormone in blood are bound to proteins and thus inactive. Therefore, this is testing cortisol levels when a patient is under and unusual level of stress in the morning, not during a typical day. Saliva tests require people to merely spit in a tube. This is a much less stressful test than getting a blood draw, and so getting the test itself will not change cortisol levels.
Saliva testing is a diagnostic technique that involves laboratory analysis of saliva to identify markers of endocrine, immunologic, inflammatory, infectious, and other types of conditions. Proponents of saliva testing cite its ease of collection, safety, non-invasiveness, affordability, accuracy, and capacity to circumvent venipuncture as the primary advantages when compared to blood testing and other types of diagnostic testing.
Cortisol is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands. Proper Cortisol levels are important for helping the body to maintain a number of functions such as blood pressure, glucose levels, immune response, and stress management. This test uses a saliva sample to measure a person’s Cortisol level. Saliva testing can provide just as accurate a measurement of adrenal hormones like Cortisol as a blood test can.
Research has found that taking regular naps may reduce stress and lower cortisol levels. The body has two adrenal glands that when properly functioning release hormones -- such as cortisol -- that help regulate metabolism, physical development and stress. Cortisol is a stress hormone. View slideshow of images above
Cortisol is a stress hormone produced by the adrenal glands. Producing too much or too little of this hormone can cause disorders that disrupt a patient’s health, such as Cushing’s Syndrome or Addison’s Disease. Measuring cortisol levels is an important part of diagnosing these conditions and monitoring their treatment. The body has two adrenal glands that when properly functioning release hormones -- such as cortisol -- that help regulate metabolism, physical development and stress. Cortisol is a stress hormone.