This dose can be increased every three days in increments of 0.125–0.25 mg twice daily. The target dose for panic disorder is 1.0 mg per day, although some people benefit from doses up to a maximum of 4 mg per day. When a person stops taking clonazepam, the drug should be gradually discontinued by decreasing the dose by 0.125 mg twice daily every three days.
Panic Disorder. Adults: The initial dose for adults with panic disorder is 0.25 mg bid. An increase to the target dose for most patients of 1 mg/day may be made after 3 days. The recommended dose of 1 mg/day is based on the results from a fixed dose study in which the optimal effect was seen at 1 mg/day.
The recommended starting clonazepam dose for treating seizures in adults is clonazepam 0.5 mg (or less) three times daily. Your healthcare provider may slowly increase your dose as necessary to control your seizures, up to a maximum of clonazepam 20 mg total per day (split up into three smaller doses per day).
Generally, the recommended starting clonazepam dosage for treating adults with seizures is 0.5 mg three times a day. The dose of clonazepam (Klonopin ®) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary, depending on a number of factors, including:
Dosage should be increased by no more than 0.25 to 0.5 mg every third day until a daily maintenance dose of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg of body weight has been reached, unless seizures are controlled or side effects preclude further increase. Whenever possible, the daily dose should be divided into three equal doses.
Although clonazepam is not FDA-approved for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder, doses in the range of 0.25–3 mg daily appears to help treat symptoms of this disorder. Daily dosages for the treatment of social phobia range from 1.0–2.5 mg, while the dosage to control mania may be as high as 10 mg daily.
Pediatric Patients: Klonopin is administered orally. In order to minimize drowsiness, the initial dose for infants and children (up to 10 years of age or 30 kg of body weight) should be between 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg/day but not to exceed 0.05 mg/kg/day given in two or three divided doses.