1 Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet and Swelling symptoms (12 causes). 2  Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet and Body symptoms (11 causes). 3  Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet and Abdominal
1 Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet and Skin problems (12 causes). 2  Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet and Swelling symptoms (12 causes). 3  Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet and Body symptoms (11 causes).
Causes of Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet that are uncommon. The following causes of Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet are diseases or conditions that affect more than 200,000 people, but less than 1 million people in the USA: 1  Chronic liver disease.
The following list of conditions have ' Red spots of the palms of hands and soles of feet ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
Syphilis 23. Syphilis 24. This patient presented with secondary syphilytic lesions on the palms of her hands. The second stage starts when one or more areas of the skin break into a rash that appears as rough, red or reddish brown spots both on the palms of the hands and on the bottoms of the feet. Even without treatment, rashes clear up on their own.
Let us have a look at some of the reasons related to red spots on bottom of feet and palms of hand in the following paragraphs. Causes of Red Spots. These red spots on your hands, legs, palms and feet may occur due to a bacterial infection or an underlying skin disorder. Our hands are always prone to infections as they are the first point of contact for most germs. Feet on the other hand, too develop infections due to sweat and moisture.
i was reading about the STD syphilius, and that spots on the palms of the hands or the palms of the feet were a symptom of its second stage. Try reading about it and see if it applies to you.