It can also be used to prevent infections for those that have low immunity and are more susceptible to various infections and viruses. Kidney disease patients often have infections in urinary tract, gastrointestinal tract or even the kidneys. With the decline of renal functions, the dosage of ciprofloxacin should be reduced especially when the clearance rate of creatinine is below 20 ml/min. Those that have serious renal impairments should avoid taking ciprofloxacin because it can cause renal damages and many side effects such as twitch, etc. Besides, those that have serious arteriosclerosis and seizure should also avoid ciprofloxacin
Uses. This medication is used to treat a variety of bacterial infections. Ciprofloxacin belongs to a class of drugs called quinolone antibiotics. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for virus infections (such as common cold, flu). 
Ciprofloxacin is the generic form of the brand-name antibiotic Cipro. Doctors prescribe ciprofloxacin to treat or prevent infections caused by various bacteria that are sensitive to ciprofloxacin. The drug works by preventing bacteria from reproducing. Ciprofloxacin belongs to a family of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones. 
Inflammation and tendon rupture can occur, sometimes bilaterally, even within the first 48 hours, during or after completion of therapy; cases occurring up to several months after completion of therapy have been reported. CIPRO should be used with caution in patients with a history of tendon disorders. Geriatric patients are at increased risk for developing severe tendon disorders including tendon rupture when being treated with a fluoroquinolone such as CIPRO. This risk is further increased in patients receiving concomitant corticosteroid therapy.
Ciprofloxacin is a second generation fluoroquinolone antibiotic that is widely used in the therapy of mild-to-moderate urinary and respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible organisms. PubMed Citation (65 year old man developed jaundice 6 days into a course of ciprofloxacin for cellulitis [bilirubin 8.5 rising to 25 mg/dL, ALT 157 U/L, Alk P 711 U/L], with concurrent renal failure, and slow but eventual recovery 5 months later).
CIPRO belongs to a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones. CIPRO can cause side effects that may be serious or even cause death. If you get any of the following serious side effects, get medical help right away. 2. Worsening of myasthenia gravis (a disease which causes muscle weakness). Fluoroquinolones like CIPRO may cause worsening of myasthenia gravis symptoms, including muscle weakness and breathing problems.
For some infections it is used in addition to other antibiotics. It can be taken by mouth or used intravenously. Common side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and rash. Ciprofloxacin increases the risk of tendon rupture and worsening muscle weakness in people with the neurological disorder myasthenia gravis.
It has been reported that ciprofloxacin does cause damages to renal functions and cause elevated levels of creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, therefore it is recommended by doctors that those that have renal impairments should have more cautions before taking ciprofloxacin. With the decline of renal functions, the dosage of ciprofloxacin should be reduced especially when the clearance rate of creatinine is below 20 ml/min. Those that have serious renal impairments should avoid taking ciprofloxacin because it can cause renal damages and many side effects such as twitch, etc. Besides, those that have serious arteriosclerosis and seizure should also avoid
Ciprofloxacin is used to treat a wide variety of infections, including infections of bones and joints, endocarditis, gastroenteritis, malignant otitis externa, respiratory tract infections, cellulitis, urinary tract infections, prostatitis, anthrax, and chancroid. It can be taken by mouth or used intravenously. Common side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and rash. Ciprofloxacin increases the risk of tendon rupture and worsening muscle weakness in people with the neurological disorder myasthenia gravis.