1 For example, according to Utah-based Green Gro HydroSeeding, hydroseeding using two bluegrass mixes cost $.07 to $.09 per square foot. 2  The cost of hydroseeding at Always Green Hydroseeding depends on the seed choice. 3  Quick Lawn, which uses Perennial Ryegrass, costs $0.10 per square foot. Hydroseeding is a process used to produce turf in a significantly short time at costs lower than sod. Hydroseeding applications are not the same, and the rates used to produce the ideal seed germination vary by mix or blend and other factors.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Cost of hydroseeding for 12000 square foot new lawn? I want to put in lawn behind my house. I&#39;m installing sprinklers for roughly a 150&#39;x75&#39; rectangle. In Modesto/Stockton area in California does anyone know how much it would cost to hydroseed the area?
For an acre or more, the rate is about USD 0.08 per square foot. This requires about 0.1 gallons of slurry sprayed over a square foot. So the cost per acre at that price, would be about USD 3485, which is quite reasonable. Also, contractors offer a discount on the per square foot price, if you are covering a larger area of land. More the area to cover, lesser is the price. If you plan to hydroseed a lawn to cover about 10,000 square feet, then the cost offered by contractors could be around USD 0.11
The price of hydroseeding and area to be seeded, are in an inverse relation. For a 2000 square feet patch of land, the price may be as high as USD 0.18 per square foot, but the quote for a 100,000 square feet piece of land could be as low as USD 0.07 per square foot or less. Also, contractors offer a discount on the per square foot price, if you are covering a larger area of land. More the area to cover, lesser is the price. If you plan to hydroseed a lawn to cover about 10,000 square feet, then the cost offered by contractors could be around USD 0.11 per square foot.
Most hydroseeding companies price the cost of hydroseeding new lawns by calculating the square feet of the area to be hydroseeded (length X width = square feet) less home, walks, drive, and landscaping. Example: A lot 125 feet deep and 80 feet wide would be 10,000 square feet. Less the home, walks, drive and landscaping, lets say about 4,500 square feet. We are left with about 5,500 square feet to hydroseed.
The main factor which affects costs is the area of land to be covered and to a lesser extent the kind of hydroseeding mixture used. The standard cost is about USD 0.18 per square foot for small areas, but it reduces substantially with larger area. Also, contractors offer a discount on the per square foot price, if you are covering a larger area of land. More the area to cover, lesser is the price. If you plan to hydroseed a lawn to cover about 10,000 square feet, then the cost offered by contractors could be around USD 0.11 per square foot.
1 The cost of hydroseeding at Always Green Hydroseeding depends on the seed choice. 2  Quick Lawn, which uses Perennial Ryegrass, costs $0.10 per square foot. 3  Athletic and Park, suitable for home lawns, parks and athletic fields, costs $0.12 per square foot. 4  Tuff Turf, seed mix for heavy traffic, costs $0.14 per square foot. Hydroseeding is a process used to produce turf in a significantly short time at costs lower than sod. Hydroseeding applications are not the same, and the rates used to produce the ideal seed germination vary by mix or blend and other factors.
First it's important to note, not all hydroseeding applications are the same. The type of seed, tackifiers, mulch, and rate they are applied, will have an impact on the final hydroseed cost. For Sod Quality Results, we recommend a blend of high quality grass seed, a small amount of tackifiers (bonding agent), and a rate of 2,000 lbs of 100% wood fiber hydro-mulch/acre. Example: A lot 125 feet deep and 80 feet wide would be 10,000 square feet. Less the home, walks, drive and landscaping, lets say about 4,500 square feet. We are left with about 5,500 square feet to hydroseed.
A hydroseeded lawn costs an average of $.50-1.00 per square foot with an additional $2 per square foot for the sprinkler system. Hydroseed is more cost-effective for large areas than it is for small ones, since it takes the same amount of time to set up the hydroseeder for a large area as it does for a small one. A hydroseed lawn is an inexpensive, efficient alternative to using sod in areas where a living lawn is desired.
TIP: Rachel adds, For large lawns, seeding by hand may be cheaper, but hydroseeding has a much higher germination rate. This means more grass sprouts, and more bang for your buck. The average cost for hydroseeding is 18 cents per square foot. At that price, the per acre total is $7840. Hydroseeders usually offer a discount if you are covering a large amount of land.. 