Answer: Red bean curd is a type of preserved bean curd (also called fermented bean curd), that consists of cubes of bean curd that have been preserved in rice wine, fermented red rice and other seasonings. A popular brand is Fu-Chung (pictured in the photo), which contains quite a bit of sauce in the jar along with the cubes. In Chinese cooking, a small amount of fermented bean curd is used to add flavor to everything from rice and congee to vegetable stir-fries and braised dishes.
Chiang fermented bean curd (Chiang-doufu) is made with cubes of tofu soaked in either Chinese-style miso (Chiang) or soy sauce for several days. Usually reddish-brown in color and salty, it may be dried and fermented further and may also be mixed with sake lees. In Japan, miso is used. The flavor is salty with mild sweetness. The texture and taste of fermented bean curd resembles a firm, smooth paste not unlike creamy blue cheese. (Indeed, this kind of tofu is sometimes called Chinese cheese in English).
Question: Red Bean Curd. Answer: Red bean curd is a type of preserved bean curd (also called fermented bean curd), that consists of cubes of bean curd that have been preserved in rice wine, fermented red rice and other seasonings. Fermented bean curd is sold in jars in Chinese markets. A popular brand is Fu-Chung (pictured in the photo), which contains quite a bit of sauce in the jar along with the cubes. In Chinese cooking, a small amount of fermented bean curd is used to add flavor to everything from rice and congee to vegetable stir-fries and braised dishes.
Fermented tofu also called fermented bean curd, sufu, tofu cheese, or preserved tofu is a form of processed, preserved tofu used in East Asian cuisine as a condiment made from soybeans. The flavor is salty with mild sweetness. The texture and taste of fermented bean curd resembles a firm, smooth paste not unlike creamy blue cheese. (Indeed, this kind of tofu is sometimes called Chinese cheese in English).
8 3 1 215. Bean curd and chicken soup is one of the soup I make when I need something nutritious and simple, yet still delicious and hearty. Lately the weather has been pretty bad, Jakarta rains almost daily, and even when it isn’t, the sky is almost always overcast. 
Bean curd has been made in China for thousands of years, and has spread throughout the world as a reasonably cheap, easy to make source of protein which is also very easy to manipulate in the kitchen. There are two basic types of bean curd. The first is silken, also called` Japanese style tofu. Make sure to use fresh tofu quickly, as it can go bad. In Chinese markets, it is possible to find bean curd skin or yuba, a byproduct of the manufacturing process. As the soy milk is fermented, a thin skin forms on top. This skin can be dried in sheets or sticks and used for an assortment of things
Bean curd is also known as tofu and is a popular meat substitute among vegetarians. Soy-based products have long been food staples in parts of Asia. Soybeans are used to make bean curd, which is also known as tofu. Make sure to use fresh tofu quickly, as it can go bad. In Chinese markets, it is possible to find bean curd skin or yuba, a byproduct of the manufacturing process. As the soy milk is fermented, a thin skin forms on top. This skin can be dried in sheets or sticks and used for an assortment of things
Tofu, also known as bean curd, is a food made by coagulating soy milk and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks. It is a component in East Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines. There are many different varieties of tofu, including fresh tofu and tofu that has been processed in some way. Tofu has a low calorie count and relatively large amounts of protein. It is high in iron, and depending on the coagulants used in manufacturing (e.g. calcium chloride, calcium sulfate, magnesium sulfate), it can have higher calcium or magnesium content.
Bean curd is another name for tofu, a product made from soybeans, and sometimes other legumes as well. To make it, a cook curdles soy milk and presses the resulting soybean curds into molds to firm up. Make sure to use fresh tofu quickly, as it can go bad. In Chinese markets, it is possible to find bean curd skin or yuba, a byproduct of the manufacturing process. As the soy milk is fermented, a thin skin forms on top. This skin can be dried in sheets or sticks and used for an assortment of things