A synovial joint, also known as diarthrosis, is the most common and most movable type of joint in the body of a mammal. As with most other joints, synovial joints achieve movement at the point of contact of the articulating bones. Structural and functional differences distinguish synovial joints from cartilaginous joints (synchondroses and symphyses) and fibrous joints (sutures, gomphoses, and syndesmoses).
Joints permit varying degrees of movements. Joints are classified into three groups: immovable, slightly movable and freely movable. Arthroscopy is the science concerned with the study of joints or articulations. The articulations of the body are classified into three areas: Bone forming slightly movable joints. The bones forming slightly movable joints are separated by a layer of cartilage or fibrous connective tissues. Eg. The joints formed by adjacent vertebrae contain intervertebral disc formed of cartilage.
Different types of joints enable the bones forming the joints to move relative to each other in different ways and to different extents, i.e. from freely moveable to hardly any movement at all. There is, of course, a connection between the structure of a joint and the degree of movement of the bones it allows. It is useful to know the words used to refer to and describe different classes of types of joints-see the table below.
Movable joints can include both slightly movable joints and freely movable joints so there are more than four to choose from. As fibrous and cartilaginous joints generally allow little or no movement it is safer to choose examples from the list of synovial joints e.g. as listed on the right. There is, of course, a connection between the structure of a joint and the degree of movement of the bones it allows. It is useful to know the words used to refer to and describe different classes of types of joints-see the table below.
Gliding. In gliding joints, which are often called a plane joint, one bone moves (or glides) over or along another. As plane implies, these joints are able to move in all direction of a plane and the joint capsule limits movement of the joint. Examples are seen in the wrist and ankle. Joints found in the human body can be classified three ways: synarthroses (joints that do not move at all), amphiarthroses (joints that are slightly movable) and diarthroses (freely movable joints). The freely movable joints, the most common joints found in the full-grown human body, are grouped into six categories
(Synovial Joints). Most articulations in the body are produced by freely movable joints. These joints are called diarthrosis joints. The ends of the bones forming these joints are bound together by an articular capsule formed out of ligaments. Bone forming slightly movable joints. The bones forming slightly movable joints are separated by a layer of cartilage or fibrous connective tissues. Eg. The joints formed by adjacent vertebrae contain intervertebral disc formed of cartilage.
Type of joint separated by a fibrocartilage that allows very slight movement between the bones. Examples are the symphysis pubis and the costochondral joints of the ribs with the sternum. Diarthrodial. Diarthrodial joints, also known as synovial joints, are freely movable. The articulation of two or more bones allows various types of movement. The extent and type of movement determine the name applied to the joint. Bone structure limits the kind and amount of movement, others are freely moveable with a variety of movement ranges.
Save. bone 6 image by chrisharvey from Fotolia.com. Cartilage, tendons and ligaments connect the bones of the human body. The body's joints are classified by the material connecting the bones together and by functionalities or the things the joints are able to do. Joints found in the human body can be classified three ways: synarthroses (joints that do not move at all), amphiarthroses (joints that are slightly movable) and diarthroses (freely movable joints). The freely movable joints, the most common joints found in the full-grown human body, are grouped into six categories