Special services increase the labor costs for car wash operations. Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. The majority of American car wash operators conduct business from only one business location and fail to use wash franchise services to set up operations, according to the IBIS World, a market research firm. Location Costs. Car washes located in geographic regions with expensive real estate property prices, including California and Hawaii, have high variable costs due to property tax and tax assessments for utility services.
At Wheel Good Car Wash the business team decided on a few variable costs to consider. Over time these costs may change and become more or less costly. 
Automated car washes have very short customer waiting times with some machines able to wash more than 200 cars per hour. 4. Automated car washes are cheaper for customers and result in more frequent washing. 5. The variable cost per wash for an operator of an an automated car wash is usually less than $1. In summary, we believe that the only viable option for car washing in Australia is automated car washing or a hybrid of automated exterior washing with hand interior detailing. Building works often cost up to 3 - 5 times more than your car wash equipment; especially in remote areas. Autowash is not a car wash builder. We do however work with several highly experienced builders. We can put you in contact with one of our preferr
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. A business has high variable costs when many of its costs change depending on the amount of business it does. Because a car wash requires more supplies, utilities and employees when it's doing a high volume of business, car wash owners can expect high variable costs. In fact, almost all of the costs associated with running a car wash are variable ones. Variable Utilities. Car washes can quickly run up high utility bills. You'll have to pay the costs of electricity and water, and if you offer hot-water treatments, your costs can go even higher.
Contracting with other firms to take over the wash operations with high variable costs, including bookkeeping, can also provide savings compared with the owner taking on all duties at the facility or contracting work on a single, specialized-duty basis. Location Costs. Car washes located in geographic regions with expensive real estate property prices, including California and Hawaii, have high variable costs due to property tax and tax assessments for utility services.
The cost will vary depending on factors such as location and the particular franchise, but you can expect that the average franchise will cost you around $275,000 to get started. Mobile car wash franchises cost less, typically in the range of $30,000 to $100,000. How to Buy a Car Wash Franchise. Do your homework before buying a car wash franchise. Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. If you decide to invest in a car wash franchise, chances are you want to purchase one with a recognizable name and the good will associated with the brand.
Operating car washes in geographic regions that experience seasonal droughts exposes your business to high variable costs. Researching the average cost for water in a variety of regional locations helps provide the practical background research for expected water costs to operate your water-reliant company. Location Costs. Car washes located in geographic regions with expensive real estate property prices, including California and Hawaii, have high variable costs due to property tax and tax assessments for utility services.
Detergents. $.64. Chemical cost per car is an average of the wash packages, meaning a base wash may for instance cost around $.45 in chemicals and a top wash more around $1.20 with our average being $.64 per car. Detergent costs also vary by supplier and discount levels, which are often based on order volume
Deciding to open a car wash demands the potential owner evaluate both the fixed and variable costs of operations before making a business investment. Avoiding a few of the high variable costs means you'll have additional capital to invest and make fewer payments for loans and interest. Location Costs. Car washes located in geographic regions with expensive real estate property prices, including California and Hawaii, have high variable costs due to property tax and tax assessments for utility services.