Febrile seizures are convulsions brought on by a fever in infants or small children. During a febrile seizure, a child often loses consciousness and shakes, moving limbs on both sides of the body. 
This type of seizure is associated with fever and is not epilepsy, although a fever may trigger a seizure in a child who has epilepsy. These seizures are more commonly seen in children between 6 months and 5 years of age and there may be a family history of this type of seizure. Febrile seizures that last less than 15 minutes are called simple, and typically do not have long-term neurological effects. 
Although seizures have many known causes, for most children, the cause remains unknown. In many of these cases, there is some family history of seizures. The remaining causes include infections such as meningitis, developmental problems such as cerebral palsy, head trauma, and many other less common causes. The most common type of seizure in children is the febrile seizure, which occurs when an infection associated with a high fever develops. Other reasons for seizures are these: 1  Infections. 2  Metabolic disorders. 3  Drugs. 4  Medications. 5  Poisons. 6  Disordered blood vessels. 7  Bleeding inside the brain
Febrile seizures. This type of seizure is associated with fever and is not epilepsy, although a fever may trigger a seizure in a child who has epilepsy. These seizures are more commonly seen in children between 6 months and 5 years of age and there may be a family history of this type of seizure. Febrile seizures that last less than 15 minutes are called simple, and typically do not have long-term neurological effect
Causes of Seizures in infants and early childhood that are uncommon. The following causes of Seizures in infants and early childhood are diseases or conditions that affect more than 200,000 people, but less than 1 million people in the USA: Causes of Seizures in infants and early childhood that are very rare. The following causes of Seizures in infants and early childhood appear in the population at a rate of substantially less than 200,000 people per year in the USA: 1  Hemolytic-uremic syndrome.
Seizures are more common in children than in adults, and infants and young children are affected especially often. Epilepsy is a condition in which a person is more susceptible to having unprovoked seizures. A child may have epilepsy if she has had two or more unprovoked seizures. 
For instance, a fever, lack of oxygen, head trauma, or illness could bring on a seizure. People are diagnosed with epilepsy when they have seizures that occur more than once without such a specific cause. In most cases -- about seven out of 10 -- the cause of the seizures can't be identified. This type of seizure is called idiopathic or cryptogenic, meaning that we don't know what causes them. The problem may be with an uncontrolled firing of neurons in the brain that triggers a seizure. Genetic research is teaching doctors more and more about what causes different types of seizures
Children are more likely to experience seizures than adults. Newborns and young children have seizures most frequently. Their seizures are often caused by problems around the time of birth, including injuries during birth or infections. The types of seizures that children experience are different from those in adults. 
1 A febrile seizure occurs when a child contracts an illness such as an ear infection, cold, or chickenpox accompanied by fever. 2  Febrile seizures are the most common type of seizure seen in children. 3  Two to five percent of children have a febrile seizure at some point during their childhood. Different types of seizures may occur in different parts of the brain and may be localized (affect only a part of the body) or widespread (affect the whole body). Seizures may occur for many reasons, especially