The Berlin Wall: The Fall of the Wall. On November 9, 1989, as the Cold War began to thaw across Eastern Europe, the spokesman for East Berlin’s Communist Party announced a change in his city’s relations with the West. Starting at midnight that day, he said, citizens of the GDR were free to cross the country’s borders. “Only today,” one Berliner spray-painted on a piece of the wall, “is the war really over.”. The reunification of East and West Germany was made official on October 3, 1990, almost one year after the fall of the Berlin Wall. 1  Tags. 2 
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, French President Francois François mitterrand Warned thatcher that a Unified germany could make more ground Than Adolf hitler ever had and That europe would have to bear the. consequences
The Berlin Wall was a wall separating the Eastern side of Berlin from the Western side. It was a symbol of The Cold War until it fell in 1989. Fact One. Construction of the Berlin Wall began on August 13 1961 as a way of separating the three zones controlled by France, Britain and America from the zone controlled by the Soviet Union. After World War Two, Germany was split into four zones, each occupied by one of the four Allied powers that defeated the Nazis.
The Berlin Wall (German: Berliner Mauer) separated the city of Berlin in Germany from 1961 to 1989. It separated the eastern half from the western half. Many people thought it was a symbol of the Cold War. The Berlin Wall was taken down on November 9, 1989. The Berlin Wall was about 168 km (104 miles) long. 
Soon the wall was gone and Berlin was united for the first time since 1945. “Only today,” one Berliner spray-painted on a piece of the wall, “is the war really over.”. The reunification of East and West Germany was made official on October 3, 1990, almost one year after the fall of the Berlin Wall. 1  Tags. 2  Berlin Wall.
Next Facts-Previous Facts. The Berlin Wall was a wall separating the Eastern side of Berlin from the Western side. It was a symbol of The Cold War until it fell in 1989. Here are ten facts about the Berlin Wall. Fact One. Construction of the Berlin Wall began on August 13 1961 as a way of separating the three zones controlled by France, Britain and America from the zone controlled by the Soviet Union. After World War Two, Germany was split into four zones, each occupied by one of the four Allied powers that defeated the Nazis.
Before the Wall's erection, 3.5 million East Germans circumvented Eastern Bloc emigration restrictions and defected from the GDR, many by crossing over the border from East Berlin into West Berlin; from which they could then travel to West Germany and other Western European countries. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, French President Francois François mitterrand Warned thatcher that a Unified germany could make more ground Than Adolf hitler ever had and That europe would have to bear the. consequences
After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, French President Francois François mitterrand Warned thatcher that a Unified germany could make more ground Than Adolf hitler ever had and That europe would have to bear the. consequences
The Berlin Wall. During the early years of the Cold War, West Berlin was a geographical loophole through which thousands of East Germans fled to the democratic West. In response, the Communist East German authorities built a wall that totally encircled West Berlin. It was thrown up overnight, on 13 August 1961. After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere.
The Berlin Wall was both the physical division between West Berlin and East Germany from 1961 to 1989 and the symbolic boundary between democracy and Communism during the Cold War. Dates: August 13, 1961 -- November 9, 1989. Also Known As: Berliner Mauer (in German). 