A market segmentation analysis provides the fundament for companies to successfully identify market segments, and is also providing companies with the ability to evaluate the needs and wants of different market segments. When conducting a market segmentation analysis, companies will potentially also be able to discover new segments, market niches and business opportunities, and new ways of positioning their products to different audiences.
You use the Segment Viewer module to perform segmentation (or clustering) analysis. In segmentation analysis, users are grouped into segments according to their behavior on the site and properties such as age and gender. Users in the same segment have similar behavior or properties. Records grouped together in a segment tend to be more similar to each other than to records in other segments. Segment groups are collections of similar segments or other segment groups. Similar segments and segment groups are then merged to form higher-level segment groups. This process continues until a single, high-level segment group is formed representing the entire population.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Market segmentation is a marketing strategy which involves dividing a broad target market into subsets of consumers, businesses, or countries who have, or are perceived to have, common needs, interests, and priorities, and then designing and implementing strategies to target them. Segmentation according to demography is based on variables such as age, gender, occupation and education level or according to perceived benefits which a product or service may provide. Benefits may be perceived differently depending on a consumer's stage in the life cycle
Segmentation Analysis. The Wolfram Language includes a variety of image segmentation techniques such as clustering, watershed, region growing, and level set as well as a rich set of functions for post-processing and analyzing the result of the segmentation. 
DEFINITION of 'Market Segmentation'. A marketing term referring to the aggregating of prospective buyers into groups (segments) that have common needs and will respond similarly to a marketing action. 
Market segmentation. Segmentation is concerned with identifying different groups of purchasers in a market in order to target specific products and services for each group or segment. However, in finding different market segments it is important to keep in mind that the business will have to use the segments and implement segment specific business decisions-such as tailored products, pricing or service to meet the needs of each segment.
Market segmentation is the process of analyzing the appropriate consumers to which a product should be targeted. It's about dividing broad target markets into subsets of consumers with similar wants and needs. Segmentation analysis helps a company to understand its customers' demographics and their motivations for buying particular products. Small businesses can follow the examples of market segmentation techniques of other companies to design their own ways of better understanding a target market. Many banks, particularly community-based banks and credit unions, use segmentation analysis to scrutinize their account holders' banking patterns and financial habits. Looking at things such as account activity, amount held in savings and willingness to invest helps the bank to segment its customers into categories.
The right approach to segmentation analysis is to segment customers into groups based on predictions regarding their total future value to the company, with the goal of addressing each group (or individual) in the way most likely to maximize that future, or lifetime, value. Introduction to Customer Segmentation. Customer segmentation is the practice of dividing a company’s customers into groups relevant to a particular business. The goal of segmenting customers is to decide how to relate to customers in each segment in order to maximize the value of each customer to the business