Display/hide their locations on the map. Shopping Centers: Appian Eighty Shopping Center (1) , Pinole Valley Shopping Center (2) , Pinole Vista Shopping Center (3) . Display/hide their locations on the map. Main business address in Pinole: SHOE PAVILION INC (A) . Display/hide its location on the map. Churches in Pinole include: Saint Joseph Roman Catholic Church (A) , Our Savior Lutheran Church (B) , Christ the Lord Episcopal Church (C) . Latest news from Pinole, CA collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: German (7.2%), Irish (4.6%), Italian (4.6%), English (3.9%), United States (2.2%), Portuguese (2.1%). Current Local Time: PST time zone. Elevation: 21 feet. Land area: 5.20 square miles.
ZONING. Zoning Map. Each piece of property within the City of Pinole is part of a designated Zoning District. Each district contains different regulations, potential uses, and development standards. General Plan Land Use Map. A copy of the City's General Plan Land Use Map can found at the following link: Pinole General Plan Land Use Map. If you would like to obtain specific zoning information related to land or structures within the City of Pinole, please contact the Planning staff at (510) 724-9832.
Property owners in the Specific Plan Areas should consult the Specific Plan Zoning Maps in addition the the Zoning Map when determining potential uses and development standards for their property. General Plan Land Use Map. A copy of the City's General Plan Land Use Map can found at the following link: Pinole General Plan Land Use Map. If you would like to obtain specific zoning information related to land or structures within the City of Pinole, please contact the Planning staff at (510) 724-9832.
Colleges/universities with over 2000 students nearest to Pinole: 1  Contra Costa College (about 4 miles; San Pablo, CA; Full-time enrollment: 4,249). 2  Berkeley City College (about 9 miles; Berkeley, CA; FT enrollment: 3,146). 3  University of California-Berkeley (about 9 miles; Berkeley, CA; FT enrollment: 37,127). Latest news from Pinole, CA collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: German (7.2%), Irish (4.6%), Italian (4.6%), English (3.9%), United States (2.2%), Portuguese (2.1%). Current Local Time: PST time zone. Elevation: 21 feet. Land area: 5.20 square miles.
No trail of breadcrumbs needed! Get clear maps of Pinole area and directions to help you get around Pinole. Plus, explore other options like satellite maps, Pinole topography maps, Pinole schools maps and much more. 
detailed map of Pinole and near places. Welcome to the Pinole google satellite map! This place is situated in Contra Costa County, California, United States, its geographical coordinates are 38° 0' 16 North, 122° 17' 52. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Pinole. 3D map of Pinole in United States. You can also dive right into Pinole on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Pinole 3D map within your web browser.
26.9%. According to our research of California and other state lists there were 8 registered sex offenders living in Pinole, California as of October 05, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Pinole to the number of sex offenders is 2,341 to 1. Latest news from Pinole, CA collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: German (7.2%), Irish (4.6%), Italian (4.6%), English (3.9%), United States (2.2%), Portuguese (2.1%). Current Local Time: PST time zone. Elevation: 21 feet. Land area: 5.20 square miles.
Specific Plan Zoning Maps. The Specific Plan customizes many of the standards and regulations found in the City of Pinole Zoning Ordinance to help achieve the vision for the three Specific Plan Areas: San Pablo Avenue, Pinole Valley Road, and Appian Way. General Plan Land Use Map. A copy of the City's General Plan Land Use Map can found at the following link: Pinole General Plan Land Use Map. If you would like to obtain specific zoning information related to land or structures within the City of Pinole, please contact the Planning staff at (510) 724-9832.