Sikhism is the only religion in the world in which wearing a turban is mandatory for all adult males. Vast majority of people who wear turbans in the Western countries are Sikhs. The Sikh pagdi (ਪਗੜੀ) is also called dastaar (ਦਸਤਾਰ), which is a more respectful word in Punjabi for the turban. Sikh wearing a turban and uncut beardPicture by Paul Schmid / The Seattle Times. The turban or pagri often shortened to pag or dastar are different words in various dialect for the same article. All these words refer to the garment worn by both men and women to cover their heads.
Communities with prominent turban-wearing traditions can be found in the Indian Subcontinent, Afghanistan, the Arabian Peninsula, the Near East, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Sahel, and parts of the Swahili Coast. The men of many Islamic cultures wear or wore a turban-style headdress, often in emulation of Muhammad, who is believed to have worn a black or white turban. In Islam, the turban is a Sunnah Mu'akkadah (Confirmed Tradition).
Wearing turbans is common among Sikhs, who refer to it as a Dastar. In certain other faith communities, the headgear also serves as a religious observance, including among Muslims, who regard turban-wearing as Sunnah Mu'akkadah (confirmed tradition). The men of many Islamic cultures wear or wore a turban-style headdress, often in emulation of Muhammad, who is believed to have worn a black or white turban. In Islam, the turban is a Sunnah Mu'akkadah (Confirmed Tradition).
In the Western countries (United States, England, Australia, and Canada), the people that wear turbans are Sikhs. There are two types of turbans that Sikhs wear: Dastar and Pa … tka. The patka is what Sikh male teenagers wear. Sikhs' turbans are pointy at the tip of the head; can be circular. Minors usually wear their hair in a bun and type turbans on their heads that enclose their bunned hair. Western Media has blinded Americans in the propaganda, that people with turbans are Arabs or Muslims.
The symbolisms of wearing a turban are many from it being regarded as a symbol of sovereignty, dedication, self-respect, courage and piety, but the reason all practicing Sikhs wear the turban is just one-out of love and obedience to the wishes of the founders of their faith. It is a mark of the Guru and declares that the Sikh wearing a turban is a servant of the Divine Presence. Wearing the turban gives much inner strength as well. Sikhs take this gift of the Guru with them everywhere they go.
99% of the people you will see wearing turbans in the U.S, Canada, and UK will be Sikhs, a religious group that originated in India during the 15th century. Sikhs wear turbans because they believe that god gave you hair during your birth, so you should not alter god's gifts in anyway. Sikhs' turbans are pointy at the tip of the head; can be circular. Minors usually wear their hair in a bun and type turbans on their heads that enclose their bunned hair. Western Media has blinded Americans in the propaganda, that people with turbans are Arabs or Muslims.
A turban (from Persian دولبند‌, dulband; via Middle French turbant) is a type of headwear based on cloth winding. Featuring many variations, it is worn as customary headwear, usually by men. The men of many Islamic cultures wear or wore a turban-style headdress, often in emulation of Muhammad, who is believed to have worn a black or white turban. In Islam, the turban is a Sunnah Mu'akkadah (Confirmed Tradition).
If you see a man walking down on American, British, Canadian, and Australian streets wearing a turban, there is 99.9% chance that he is a Sikh, a follower of a monotheistic religion that started in the 15th century in India. Sikhs proudly wear the turban as part of their religious and cultural heritage. Sikhs are often mistaken for Muslims or Arabs. They are neither -- not that being Arab or Muslim is a justification for making people targets of hatred. However, Sikhism is an independent religion and does not follow Islamic law. 
In the Western countries (United States, England, Australia, and Canada), the people that wear turbans are Sikhs. There are two types of turbans that Sikhs wear: Dastar and Patka. The patka is what Sikh male teenagers wear. The Patka is not actually a turban, but it serves the same purpose as the dastar. The dastar is the large turban that Sikh male adults wear to keep their uncut hair inside. Men in the Middle East also wear turbans. There are two kinds of turbans in the Middle East: Amamah and Keffiyeh. The Keffiyeh is not technically a turban, but it serves the same purpose as an Amamah (turban), to keep your head cool from the extreme heat
It is a mark of the Guru and declares that the Sikh wearing a turban is a servant of the Divine Presence. Wearing the turban gives much inner strength as well. Sikhs take this gift of the Guru with them everywhere they go. The patka is what Sikh male teenagers wear. The Patka is not actually a turban, but it serves the same purpose as the dastar. The dastar is the large turban that Sikh male adults wear to keep their uncut hair inside.