Answers. Best Answer: I/O device error means your computer unable to detect the input/output device. It is high possibility that your thumb drive or the usb port is damaged. Try plugging in the same thumb drive to another computer. If the thumb drive is working fine, there's something wrong with your usb port
Since an I/O device error occurs when the Windows OS is attempting to use a transfer mode that is not available or not recognized to or from an input, storage or output device -- such as external hard disk drives, DVDs and CDs, SD cards and USB devices -- the errors can often be fixed by updating a device driver. Since device I/O errors are commonly caused by issues with external drives or peripherals, check the connection, usually a USB connection, and make sure it's correct and snug. If the connection doesn't appear to be the issue, connect the external device to a different computer to see if the same error occurs.
Best Answer: An i/o device error is an input output error so that means the device trying to read information into your laptop (in this case your CD drive) is having problems. What does i/o device error mean, and how can I cure it? I have an Acer TravelMate laptop. When I put a CD or other medium in the E drive the message i/o device error comes up.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Windows error I/O Device Error means there is an error in the computer's ability to read data when you try to install a program or to copy data from your CD or DVD drive. This issue is likely to occur when Windows tries to use a transfer mode that your CD drive cannot use or does not recognize. I/O Device error means, Input or Output device error. There is a problem Reading (Input) from the CD or Writing (Output) to the Hard Drive. Most likely in this case to be a damaged CD. Try cleaning the CD. If its a music CD try and play it from beginning to end.
Report Abuse. The Windows error I/O Device Error means there is an error in the computer's ability to read data when you try to install a program or to copy data from your CD or DVD drive. This issue is likely to occur when Windows tries to use a transfer mode that your CD drive cannot use or does not recognize. I/O Device error means, Input or Output device error. There is a problem Reading (Input) from the CD or Writing (Output) to the Hard Drive. Most likely in this case to be a damaged CD. Try cleaning the CD. If its a music CD try and play it from beginning to end.
Causes of an IO Device Error. I/O error issues might occur for any of the following reasons: 1  Windows is trying to use a transfer mode that the hardware device cannot use. 2  The hardware device that you are trying to access is damaged or defective. 3  The hardware drivers are damaged or incompatible. 
When you try to perform a full backup on a Windows Vista-based computer, you may receive the following error messages before the backup of the first drive is complete: The request could not be performed because of an I/O device error (0x8007045D). Please rerun backup once issue is resolved. Attatched is the link for correcting this issue and other troubleshooting if you encounter any other problems. Please let me know if this has corrected issue or still having problems.
Best Answer: hi, just follow these steps: you will get the solution. --------------------------------------... The Windows error I/O Device Error means there is an error in the computer's ability to read data when you try to install a program or to copy data from your CD or DVD drive. This issue is likely to occur when Windows tries to use a transfer mode that your CD drive cannot use or does not recognize. 