Basal body temperature (BBT) is the lowest body temperature attained during rest (usually during sleep). It is usually estimated by a temperature measurement immediately after awakening and before any physical activity has been undertaken. This will lead to a somewhat higher value than the true BBT (see Fig. 1). The tendency of a woman to have lower temperatures before ovulation, and higher temperatures afterwards, is known as a biphasic pattern. Charting of this pattern may be used as a component of fertility awareness. The BBT of men is comparable to the BBT of women in their follicular phase.
The implantation of a fertilized egg normally takes place 6 to 12 days after ovulation – that’s about two to three weeks before the next period is missed.This one-half to one degree Fahrenheit increase in basal body temperature is a subtle early warning sign of pregnancy. This change in basal body temperature, which is measured by a special, more accurate thermometer, can happen as early as two days after ovulation. And, that can be two weeks before you notice a missed period.
Your basal body temperature (BBT) is your lowest body temperature in a 24-hour period. To get an accurate reading, you must take your temperature when you first wake up in the morning, before you even sit up in bed. 
Guest. I don’t think so. You should know that one of the many changes that take place in a woman's body during her menstrual period is an increase in body temperature at the onset of ovulation. During the first part of a woman's cycle, the body temperature is lower, but with ovulation, the body temperature rises. 
Before ovulation, waking temperatures typically range from about 97.0 to 97.5 degrees Fahrenheit, and after ovulation, they rise to about 97.6 to 98.6 degrees. Temperatures will remain elevated until the next period, about two weeks later. 
1 Basal body temperature (BBT) is the lowest body temperature a healthy person has during the day. 2  A woman's hormone levels during her menstrual cycle naturally cause her BBT to fall 1 to 2 days before ovulation and then rise 1 to 2 days after ovulation. 1 Basal body temperature (BBT) method. 2  Basal body temperature (BBT) is the lowest body temperature a healthy person has during the day. 3  A woman's hormone levels during her menstrual cycle naturally cause her BBT to fall 1 to 2 days before ovulation and then rise 1 to 2 days after ovulation.
Low temperatures are observed before ovulation and higher temperatures are recorded after ovulation. Your BBT, or basal body temperature, is your body temperature at rest as measured in the morning after at least three hours of sleep, before you get up, with a special BBT thermometer that you can buy at your drugstore. This is because progesterone, and hence your temperature, increase quite dramatically just after ovulation has taken place. Before ovulation, there is only a small amount of progesterone present in your body and your basal body temperatures (your resting temperatures) are in the lower range.
Before ovulation, during your follicular phase, basal temperatures are relatively low. After ovulation, your basal body temperature rises sufficiently that you can see the difference between your pre-ovulation and post-ovulation temperatures when they are plotted on a graph. This is because progesterone, and hence your temperature, increase quite dramatically just after ovulation has taken place. Before ovulation, there is only a small amount of progesterone present in your body and your basal body temperatures (your resting temperatures) are in the lower range.