Rhode Island (/ˌroʊd ˈaɪlɨnd/ or /rɵˈdaɪlɨnd/), officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, is a state in the New England region of the United States. Rhode Island is the smallest in area, the eighth least populous, but the second most densely populated of the 50 U.S. states (behind New Jersey). Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to the north and east, and it shares a water boundary with New York's Long Island to the southwest. It also has the longest official name of all the states. Despite its name, most of Rhode Island is located on the mainland of the United States. The official name of the state is State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, which is derived from the merger of two colonies.
Providence is the capital and most populous city in Rhode Island. Founded in 1636, it is one of the oldest cities in the United States. It is located in Providence County, and is the third-largest city in the New England region after Boston and Worcester. Providence also is the site of a sectional center facility (SCF), a regional hub for the U.S. Postal Service. Since it is the capital of Rhode Island, Providence's economy additionally consists of government services.
Rhode Island, smallest of the 50 states, is densely populated and highly industrialized. It is a major center for jewelry manufacturing. Electronics, metal, plastic products, and boat and ship construction are other important industries. 1 Rhode Island: meaning and definitions-Rhode Island: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  University of Rhode Island-Rhode Island, University of Rhode Island, University of, at Kingston; coeducational; land-grant and ...
Rhode Island located within the coordinates 41.70° N, 71.50° W. It is surrounded by Massachusetts from the Northern and Eastern sides, by Connecticut from its western side and by the Atlantic Ocean from Southern side. Last Updated: July 27, 2015. 
1 Rhode Island, island, United States-Rhode Island Rhode Island, island, 15 mi (24 km) long and 5 mi (8 km) wide, S R.I., at the entrance 2  ... Rhode Island-Map of Rhode Island & articles on flags, geography, history, statistics, disasters, and current events. 1 Rhode Island: meaning and definitions-Rhode Island: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  University of Rhode Island-Rhode Island, University of Rhode Island, University of, at Kingston; coeducational; land-grant and ...
Providence has a city population of 177,994 and is part of the 38th-largest metropolitan population in the country, with an estimated population of 1,604,291, exceeding that of Rhode Island by about 60%, as it extends into southern Massachusetts. Providence also is the site of a sectional center facility (SCF), a regional hub for the U.S. Postal Service. Since it is the capital of Rhode Island, Providence's economy additionally consists of government services.
From its beginnings, Rhode Island has been distinguished by its support for freedom of conscience and action: Clergyman Roger Williams founded the present state capital, Providence, after being exiled by the Massachusetts Bay Colony Puritans in 1636. 1 Rhode Island: meaning and definitions-Rhode Island: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  University of Rhode Island-Rhode Island, University of Rhode Island, University of, at Kingston; coeducational; land-grant and ...
Rhode Island, the Ocean State, is loved for its many beaches, for the historic city of Newport, and for the up-and-coming capital city of Providence, rich with culture and interesting dining. Visitors love the unspoiled Block Island, easily reached by ferry from the fishing village of Point Judith. Other parts of the state are rich in history, farms, and beautiful outdoor getaways. Click here to view a map of Rhode Island. The East Bay region, along the eastern shore of Narragansett Bay, is a place of small towns and farms, public parks and marinas. The main towns are Barrington and Bristol.
Providence Station, located between the Rhode Island State House and the downtown district, is served by Amtrak and MBTA Commuter Rail services, with a commuter rail route running north to Boston and south to a recently opened station at T.F. Green Airport and Wickford Junction. Providence also is the site of a sectional center facility (SCF), a regional hub for the U.S. Postal Service. Since it is the capital of Rhode Island, Providence's economy additionally consists of government services.