1 In-App Purchasing – $1,000-$3,000 – this allows for users to buy new content or full versions of the apps. 2  The cost spread comes from the amount of in-app purchasing, the complexity, and whether or not you build it all into the first app or if you are doing it from a server. There really aren’t any hidden fees except the the $99 Apple will charge you per year and the 30% cut they take for each sale you make. Everything else will be in development, design, and IT architecture (hosting, servers, etc). The total cost of an app can vary based on all the different variables from above.
I am the developer for Coupious mobile coupons iPhone app and with the amount of time that I spent on that application (v1.0 - v1.5), it was probably a $15,000 - $20,000 investment. However, iPhone competent developers run in the range of $80-$150 depending on their skill and time with the platform. I would say that for a simple application, an app would probably run 2K-5K, a medium complexity app would run 5K-15K and a fairly complex app running 15K-30K. Game applications could be even more
Like most developers, I often get asked how much it costs to build an app. For many clients it is not apparent that this is a little like asking how much it costs to build a house or buy a car. Consider that for games and high end apps it is a matter of having a champagne budget to accompany the champagne taste: Such apps cost hundreds of thousands dollars to develop, and projects like FlipBoard raised 10.5M of first round funding, and have just gone back for round two for an eye popping 200 million.
For this reason, it is difficult to put a figure on just how much a game app will cost to develop, it depends entirely on how complex you want to go. The cost could range anywhere from $10,000 to $250,000 and beyond. Think about your first encounter with a video game and how it looked. 
Even if you let the app sit in the store for a year, putting some light marketing and analytics attention on it can easily help pay for your investment. I’ve seen apps that cost $3,000 drive about 2K new users to a website a month, with an average time on site that is 400% higher than web visitors. There really aren’t any hidden fees except the the $99 Apple will charge you per year and the 30% cut they take for each sale you make. Everything else will be in development, design, and IT architecture (hosting, servers, etc). The total cost of an app can vary based on all the different variables from above.
You can definitely find all-inclusive firms that will do everything for you for $1,000 or so, just be wary of the quality and how much control you will have over the process. Just like anything in web marketing, low costs means they have to make it up in volume and the client feels that the hardest. There really aren’t any hidden fees except the the $99 Apple will charge you per year and the 30% cut they take for each sale you make. Everything else will be in development, design, and IT architecture (hosting, servers, etc). The total cost of an app can vary based on all the different variables from above.
Jason Calacanis recently had a great post outlining the amount of money startups should raise in their first round of funding. The total first round raise for 18 months he suggested is $750,000. That's not necessarily how much an app has to cost though (although some apps do, especially over their lifetime). The $750,000 includes $120,000 of operational dollars for legal, accounting, and comparable fees. 
For a nice but simple app, the design work will likely take a designer about a week, which will cost you about $6,000. The server side will likely require a developer about 2 weeks of work, or about $12,000. Similarly, the app could be written in about 2 weeks as well, another $12,000. Consider that for games and high end apps it is a matter of having a champagne budget to accompany the champagne taste: Such apps cost hundreds of thousands dollars to develop, and projects like FlipBoard raised 10.5M of first round funding, and have just gone back for round two for an eye popping 200 million.
1 Simple, table based app – $1,000-4,000 – you provide all the content, clear direction, and example apps of what you want it to do. 2  If you know your way around Photoshop, you can probably supply the graphics which will cap this project at $1,500. There really aren’t any hidden fees except the the $99 Apple will charge you per year and the 30% cut they take for each sale you make. Everything else will be in development, design, and IT architecture (hosting, servers, etc). The total cost of an app can vary based on all the different variables from above.