As the body loses fluids, it can affect the concentration of its electrolytes, which are important substances present inside the cells and the bloodstream that affect various metabolic process, including fluid and water balance. One of the electrolytes affected by dehydration is potassium. The symptoms of dehydration include dry lips and mouth, decreased urine output, decreased or no tears when crying, and nausea with dizziness. In small children, lethargy, sunken eyes and irritability are common.
It is used to detect concentrations that are too high (hyperkalemia) or too low (hypokalemia). The most common cause of hyperkalemia is kidney disease, but many drugs can decrease potassium excretion from the body and result in this condition. 
Sodium. Sodium is regulated by the kidneys and adrenal glands. Low sodium levels are caused by kidney disease and adrenal disease, diuretics, diarrhea, and occasionally conditions that cause fluid buildup in the body; the most common cause of high sodium is dehydration. Normal sodium levels are 136 to 142 mmol/L. Understanding Electrolytes. The balance of sodium, potassium, chloride and bicarbonate in the blood is a good indicator of how well the kidneys and heart are functioning. Knowing which electrolytes are out of balance can help your doctor determine a course of treatment.
Potassium also has a role in regulating blood pressure. Low potassium levels (hypokalaemia) can cause weakness as cellular processes are affected. Potassium is a mineral (electrolyte) in the body. Almost 98% of potassium is found inside the cells. Small changes in the level of potassium that is present outside the cells can have severe effects on the heart, nerves and muscles. Dehydration, diarrhoea, excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis) and laxative abuse are common causes of low potassium levels. It may also be caused by a lack of potassium in the diet; however, this is uncommon.
All these can result in hypokalemia, or low potassium levels. Diabetic ketoacidosis, in which a person with diabetes cannot use sugar as energy source and resorts to the use of fats to satisfy its energy requirements, can also result in low potassium levels, or can cause hyperkalemia, abnormally high level of potassium. Dehydration occurs when the body lacks enough water to continue its metabolic processes. Water is an essential compound for the body’s many biochemical reactions. It is used during energy production and excretion of toxic materials. When the body cannot keep up with its fluid needs, dehydration ensues. Dehydration can then affect many cellular processes in the body. One effect of dehydration is on the potassium level in the blood
Dehydration is an excessive loss of water from the body tissues, often accompanied by an imbalance of sodium, potassium, chloride, and other electrolytes. It can occur whenever fluids are lost and not adequately replaced, especially when an individual does not drink enough fluids. Severe dehydration can cause more serious symptoms such as confusion, low blood pressure, shock, and may even lead to death. The human body consists of about 60-70% water and must have a continuous supply in order to function.
Potassium. Potassium concentrations that are too high can be due to kidney disease or drugs that can decrease potassium excretion from the body. Low potassium can be a consequence of using certain diuretics or of dehydration. Normal potassium levels are 3.5 to 5.0 mmol/L. Understanding Electrolytes. The balance of sodium, potassium, chloride and bicarbonate in the blood is a good indicator of how well the kidneys and heart are functioning. Knowing which electrolytes are out of balance can help your doctor determine a course of treatment.
Initial symptoms of dehydration include dry lips and mouth, dry skin, increased heart rate and decreased urine output. If the dehydration worsens, the heart rate increases more and blood pressure can fall, resulting in light-headedness, dizziness and loss of consciousness. Dehydration occurs when the body lacks enough water to continue its metabolic processes. Water is an essential compound for the body’s many biochemical reactions. It is used during energy production and excretion of toxic materials. When the body cannot keep up with its fluid needs, dehydration ensues. Dehydration can then affect many cellular processes in the body. One effect of dehydration is on the potassium level in the blood