There are several major types of epithelia: Stratified squamous epithelium: the cells originate from a layer of cells along a basal lamina and form a multilayered structure. Cells toward the surface have smaller nuclei and greater amounts of cytoplasm with keratin. Columnar cells often produce mucin and may be called a mucinous epithelium. An example is the surface lining of the colon. They may have cilia or microvilli along the lumenal border. The cell nuclei are typically located toward the basal lamina.
The basement membrane is the fusion of two cell layers, the basal lamina and the underlying layer of reticular connective tissue. The two layers together are collectively referred to as the basement membrane. The basal lamina layer can further be divided into two layers. The clear layer closer to the epithelium is called the lamina lucida, while the dense layer closer to the connective tissue is called the lamina densa.
The basal lamina is a layer of extracellular matrix secreted by the epithelial cells, on which the epithelium sits. It is often confused with the basement membrane and at times used inconsistently in literature. 
1. B; The small ducts of exocrine glands are lined by simple cuboidal cells. 2. D; In the trachea pseudostratified epithelium, all cells rest on the basal lamina. Bladder transitional epithelium is stratified and therefore not all cells touch the basal lamina. 3. A; Another function of stratified epithelia is to serve as a barrier
hemidesmisomes function. anchor the basal membrane of epithelial cells to the basal lamina. hemidesmisomes have integrins which are receptors for proteins of the basal lamina (laminins), allowing the cell to the keratin based intermediate filament.   . anchor the basal membrane of epithelial cells to the basal lamina. hemidesmisomes have integrins which are receptors for proteins of the basal lamina (laminins), allowing the cell to the keratin based intermediate filament.
1. it can surround cells (for example muscle fibres have a layer of basal lamina around them); 2. it lies underneath sheets of epithelial cells. 3. it separates two sheets of cells, such as the endothelial cells of blood vessels and epithelial cells of another tissue. This type of arrangement is found in the kidney glomerulus, where the basal lamina acts as a permeability barrier or sieve. These proteins can bind to each other to make a highly crosslinked extracellular matrix as shown in this diagram. All epithelia have a basal lamina which lies between the cells and the underlying connective tissue. This layer is so thin that it is often difficult to see with conventional light microscopy and is usually only clearly defined under the electron microscop
The basal lamina provides support to the overlying epithelium, limits contact between epithelial cells and the other cell types in the tissue and acts as a filter allowing only water and small molecules to pass through. These proteins can bind to each other to make a highly crosslinked extracellular matrix as shown in this diagram. All epithelia have a basal lamina which lies between the cells and the underlying connective tissue. This layer is so thin that it is often difficult to see with conventional light microscopy and is usually only clearly defined under the electron microscope