The thyroid gland in the neck is important for regulating the body's metabolism. With an underactive thyroid, also called hypothyroidism, the thyroid gland does not make enough of the thyroid hormone called thyroxine. With Hashimoto’s disease, the body produces antibodies that attack and destroy the thyroid gland. Other causes of hypothyroidism include: A viral infection. Radiotherapy to the neck area. Treating certain cancers, such as lymphoma, requires radiation to the neck.
Hypothyroidism can affect many parts of the body, and treatment can often lead to normalization of these conditions. These are some ways that an underactive thyroid can affect the body: 1  High cholesterol and heart disease: Hypothyroidism slows your body's metabolism and can cause a buildup of bad cholesterol. 2  It can also slow the heart and lead to an enlarged heart or heart failure. 
Worldwide, a lack of dietary iodine is a common cause of an underactive thyroid, because the body needs iodine to make thyroxine. However, iodine deficiency is uncommon in the UK. Babies are sometimes born with an underactive thyroid because the thyroid gland doesn't develop properly in the womb. This damages the thyroid, which means it's not able to make enough of the hormone thyroxine, leading to the symptoms of an underactive thyroid. A condition called Hashimoto's disease is the most common type of autoimmune reaction that causes
Hypothyroidism is a thyroid disease that affects people globally. Two-to three-percent of Americans have hypothyroidism; 10-15% mild hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism affects women more than men. The thyroid gland is located in the neck and secretes hormones into the blood, which are then carried into the body’s tissues. Partial or Complete Removal of the Thyroid. When a portion of the thyroid gland is surgically removed (eg, patients with thyroid nodules, thyroid cancer, Graves’ disease), this causes the remaining thyroid tissue to stop working properly—and may result in
The most common cause of hypothyroidism is Hashimoto’s disease, an autoimmune disorder. With Hashimoto’s disease, the body produces antibodies that attack and destroy the thyroid gland. Other causes of hypothyroidism include: A viral infection. Radiotherapy to the neck area. Treating certain cancers, such as lymphoma, requires radiation to the neck.
An underactive thyroid can also occur as a side effect or complication of previous treatment to the thyroid gland, such as surgery or a treatment called radioactive iodine therapy. These treatments are sometimes used for an overactive thyroid (where the thyroid gland produces too much hormone) or thyroid cancer. This damages the thyroid, which means it's not able to make enough of the hormone thyroxine, leading to the symptoms of an underactive thyroid. A condition called Hashimoto's disease is the most common type of autoimmune reaction that causes
Most cases of an underactive thyroid are caused by the immune system attacking the thyroid gland and damaging it, or by damage that occurs as a result of treatments for thyroid cancer or an overactive thyroid. This damages the thyroid, which means it's not able to make enough of the hormone thyroxine, leading to the symptoms of an underactive thyroid. A condition called Hashimoto's disease is the most common type of autoimmune reaction that causes
Hypothyroidism: Common symptoms of hypothyroidism include sensitivity to cold temperatures, mild weight gain, fatigue, constipation, small thyroid gland, enlarged neck, dry skin, hair loss, muscle cramps, heavy and irregular menstruation, and difficulty thinking or concentrating. Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland located at the base of your neck that produces thyroid hormone, which helps to regulate your metabolism. In some cases, thyroid problems may cause a visible lump in your neck, indicating an enlargement or a cyst, nodule or goiter on your thyroid.
Iodine levels can also affect thyroid hormone production. The thyroid needs iodine to make thyroid hormone. An imbalance in iodine—too much or too little—can cause or make hypothyroidism worse. Iodine comes into the body, mostly via diet, such as dairy, chicken, beef, pork, fish, and iodized salt. Partial or Complete Removal of the Thyroid. When a portion of the thyroid gland is surgically removed (eg, patients with thyroid nodules, thyroid cancer, Graves’ disease), this causes the remaining thyroid tissue to stop working properly—and may result in hypothyroidism.
The most common cause of hypothyroidism is Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid gland. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder. With Hashimoto’s, your body produces antibodies that attack and destroy the thyroid gland. Thyroiditis may also be caused by a viral infection. Other causes of hypothyroidism include: Radiation therapy to the neck area. Treating certain cancers, such as lymphoma, requires radiation to the neck