What it covers. Deposit. This is the amount you put towards the cost of the property when you buy your home. On average, you need at least 5% to 20% of the purchase price (for example: £10,000 to £ 40,000 when buying a £200,000 home). Help to Buy and other housing schemes only require a 5% deposit.
Dependent on whether you are buying, selling or remortgaging, will depend on the fees that you will pay for your property solicitor. Don't go with an average conveyancing fee, get an accurate online quote for your conveyancing costs now. 
A Guide to Scottish Conveyancing. Join me on Google+ A Guide Scottish Conveyancing Working throughout the whole of Scotland Sale FlowchartClick Here Purchase FlowchartClick Here ... Part Exchange Experts & independent legal advice Clients buying new build property are often directed to use a solicitor chosen by the Builder/Seller. The law of Scotland allows you to instruct a solicitor of your own choosing, not just one recommended to you by... Read More.
Welcome to Conveyancing Services Scotland’s online case referral and fee quote system. Please select the type of case that you would like to instruct to one of our solicitor firms. and/or obtain an indication of costs for. 
Why We Are Different. We are a firm of solicitors dedicated to providing the most cost efficient and accessible conveyancing service to home buyers, sellers and remortgagors in Scotland. We have a team of conveyancing solicitors, legal executives and support staff handling over three thousand cases each year. 
Like you are, clever you! The UK average cost of residential conveyancing is “approaching £850” according to reallymoving.com. But that doesn’t include the Land Registry Fee, Bank Transfer Fees, Disbursements, Search Fees and all other associated costs. From our research, the average price for all the other associated costs is around £450. According to a study compiled by Post Office Money and the Centre for Economics and Business Research (Cebr) the overall average cost of residential Conveyancing in 2014 was £1,419, that’s 37% higher than 2004! Unlike residential conveyancing, there’s less competition in commercial conveyancing.
Buying and selling your home won't cost you the earth when you use Conveyancing Direct. As Scotland's largest dedicated conveyancing solicitors we provide an efficient, personal and professional service without the need to visit our offices. Our discounted fee for a straightforward purchase or sale transaction is the same price whatever the value of the house.
Most solicitors' fees increase as the property prices rise. With fixed-fee conveyancing the legal fees are the same whatever the price of the property-a considerable saving on high-priced properties. Anthony Holden Croft in west London offers fixed-fee conveyancing. The cost is pounds 250 for each transaction. In addition, there is a bank transfer charge of pounds 26. In addition, disbursements would be 'no more than pounds 100' but that figure included the search fees and a bank transfer charge of pounds 20. Nearer to London, legal fees rise. You can keep the costs down by comparing quotes and finding a solicitor who offers fixed-fee conveyancing.