Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol. All nuts are high in calories, so a handful will do. To avoid eating too many nuts and gaining weight, replace foods high in saturated fat with nuts. For example, instead of using cheese, meat or croutons in your salad, add a handful of walnuts or almonds.
These foods may not be magic, but they're close to it, says Ruth Frechman, RD, a spokeswoman for the American Dietetic Association. Researchers have found that some foods -- such as fatty fish, walnuts, oatmeal, and oat bran, and foods fortified with plant sterols or stanols -- can help control your cholesterol. Here's some good news. To lower your cholesterol, you can actually eat more of certain foods. A handful of some functional foods have been shown to make a big impact on your cholesterol levels. They're also much tastier than a pill chased with a glass of water.
We look at foods that boost your levels of HDL-the so-called 'good' cholesterol that can lessen your chances of a heart attack or stroke. Beans and lentils. All types of beans-from chick peas to lentils and even plain old baked beans-can help to boost your levels of good cholesterol. 
Except for your morning wheat bran, no food is more fiber-rich than beans. And beans are especially high in cholesterol-lowering soluble fiber. Eating a cup of any type of beans a day—particularly kidney, navy, pinto, black, chickpea, or butter beans—can lower cholesterol by as much as 10% in 6 weeks. What follows are Prevention 's choices for the healthiest foods that lower cholesterol. If you're already eating plenty of them, keep up the good work. If not, begin adding them into your diet today.
A moderate-fat diet that's rich in the healthy monounsaturated fats found in nuts may actually be twice as good for your heart as a low-fat diet. Nuts also have vitamin E, magnesium, copper, and phytochemicals that have been linked to heart health. And walnuts are also rich in omega-3s. What follows are Prevention 's choices for the healthiest foods that lower cholesterol. If you're already eating plenty of them, keep up the good work. If not, begin adding them into your diet today.
Trans fats, often used in margarines and store-bought cookies, crackers and cakes, are particularly bad for your cholesterol levels. Trans fats raise LDL cholesterol, and lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL), the good cholesterol. Food labels report the content of trans fats, but, unfortunately, only in foods that contain at least one gram per serving. 
These four super-foods increase your levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) or good cholesterol, which will help lower your risk for heart disease. 
Dine on salmon. Have a little chocolate—guilt-free! These eating strategies (and more) can help reduce your cravings for high cholesterol foods and lower bad-guy. LDLs, maintain good-guy HDLs, AND help you reduce your risk of heart attack and stroke. What follows are Prevention 's choices for the healthiest foods that lower cholesterol. If you're already eating plenty of them, keep up the good work. If not, begin adding them into your diet today.
Saturated fat can increase your levels of bad LDL cholesterol. But it has some benefits, too — it lowers triglycerides and nudges up levels of good HDL cholesterol. The role of saturated fat in heart disease is currently under debate. For now, it's best to limit your intake of saturated-fat-rich foods. Doing this requires a two-pronged strategy: Add foods that lower LDL, the harmful cholesterol-carrying particle that contributes to artery-clogging atherosclerosis. At the same time, cut back on foods that boost LDL. Without that step, you are engaging in a holding action instead of a steady — and tasty — victory.
Eggs are a controversial food in relation to high cholesterol. Some small studies have found that eating egg yolks can raise cholesterol levels. However, there have been a few very large studies that have shown that eating egg yolks can lower high cholesterol by raising your good cholesterol. Bad cholesterol is known as LDL or low density lipoprotein. You should also consider your triglyceride levels. Total cholesterol levels should ideally be between 100-200 mg/dL for an adult. Diet plays an important part in your cholesterol levels. It can both raise and lower your numbers.