While most crude oil is still transported by pipelines, rail transport is gaining ground. According to the Association of American Railroads, the United States rail system transported 407,642 carloads of crude oil in 2013, up from 9,500 carloads in 2008. “It’s mainly because rail is serving those areas that are not now served by pipelines.”. Transporting crude oil by pipeline is generally cheaper than by rail, at a cost of about $5 a barrel compared with $10 to $15 a barrel, according to a February report by the Congressional Research Service.
TransCanada’s Keystone Pipeline transports more than 500,000 barrels per day of Canadian crude oil to U.S. refinery markets and has transported more than 340 million barrels since it opened in July 2010. Oil sands crudes are transported at similar pipeline pressures to other heavy crude oils. All oil pipelines are required to operate under a designated maximum operating pressure (MOP) that is based on the strength of the pipe.
Download the Keystone Pipeline System map, including the Keystone XL route (PDF, 2.3 MB). The Keystone XL Pipeline Project is a proposed 1,179-mile (1,897 km), 36-inch-diameter crude oil pipeline, beginning in Hardisty, Alta., and extending south to Steele City, Neb. This pipeline is a critical infrastructure project for the energy security of the United States and for strengthening the American economy. 
Of these, 88,976 miles (143,193 km) represent projects in the planning and design phase; 29,647 miles (47,712 km) reflect pipelines in various stages of construction. Liquids and gases are transported in pipelines and any chemically stable substance can be sent through a pipeline. Pipelines exist for the transport of crude and refined petroleum, fuels-such as oil, natural gas and biofuels-and other fluids including sewage, slurry, water, and beer. The oil is kept in motion by pump stations along the pipeline, and usually flows at speed of about 1 to 6 metres per second (3.3 to 19.7 ft/s). Multi-product pipelines are used to transport two or more different products in sequence in the same pipeline.
The larger cross-country crude oil transmission pipelines or trunk lines bring crude oil from producing areas to refineries. There are approximately 55,000 miles of crude oil trunk lines (usually 8 to 24 inches in diameter) in the United States that connect regional markets. There are also a few VERY large trunk lines. One of the largest in the U.S. is the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, which is 48 inches in diameter. The next group of liquid petroleum pipelines is one that carries refined petroleum products – gasoline, jet fuel, home heating oil and diesel fuel. Within the liquid petroleum pipeline network there are crude oil lines, refined product lines, highly volatile liquids (HVL) lines, and carbon dioxide lines (CO 2). Crude oil is also subdivided in to 'Gathering Lines' and ’Transmission Lines”.
Approximately 3 million barrels of crude oil travel through Canada’s pipeline network every day, enough to fill almost 200 Olympic-sized swimming pools[1]. What causes internal and external corrosion of a pipeline? Most transmission pipelines are buried in the ground and are made of carbon steel. 2. Feeder lines move product from oil storage tanks and processing plants to the transmission pipelines. They are generally bigger than gathering lines, but smaller than transmission lines. There are more than 25,000 kilometers of feeder lines in Western Canada.
Along with transporting crude oil from Canada, the Keystone XL Pipeline will also support the significant growth of crude oil production in the United States by allowing American oil producers more access to the large refining markets found in the American Midwest and along the U.S. Gulf Coast. The Keystone XL Pipeline is a proposed 1,179-mile (1,897 km), 36-inch-diameter crude oil pipeline beginning in Hardisty, Alta., and extending south to Steele City, Neb.
Pipeline transport is the transportation of goods or material through a pipe. The best data, in 2014, gives a total of slightly less than 3.5 million km of pipeline in 120 countries of the world. The United States had 65%, Russia had 8%, and Canada had 3%, thus 75% of all pipeline was in three countries. The oil is kept in motion by pump stations along the pipeline, and usually flows at speed of about 1 to 6 metres per second (3.3 to 19.7 ft/s). Multi-product pipelines are used to transport two or more different products in sequence in the same pipeline.
The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) includes the trans-Alaska crude-oil pipeline, 12 pump stations, several hundred miles of feeder pipelines, and the Valdez Marine Terminal. 