Or it may be found on an X-ray or other type of scan. Nodules can be a sign of cancer, but more often they are benign (noncancerous) growths. Pulmonary nodules are small rounded growths in the lung. They're usually found on chest X-rays or CT scans.
Doctors may call them lesions, coin lesions or solitary pulmonary nodules (SPN). Lung nodules are very common – at least 50% of people have them by the time they are 50 years old. The challenge is figuring out which nodules are or will become cancer.
Lung nodules can be either benign (non-cancerous) or malignant (cancer). The most common causes include granulomas (clumps of inflamed tissue) and hamartomas (benign lung tumors). The most common cause of malignant lung nodules include lung cancer, or cancer from other regions of the body that has spread to the lungs (metastatic cancer).
Cancerous nodules can be the first stage of a primary lung cancer, brought on by smoking or any other common cause of lung cancer. They also can be a secondary cancer that metastasized in the lungs from a primary cancer elsewhere in the body.
Lung nodules are very common – at least 50% of people have them by the time they are 50 years old. The challenge is figuring out which nodules are or will become cancer. All lung cancer starts with a nodule but 95% of lung nodules are not cancer. Nodules that are not cancer may be the result of a bacterial or fungal infection in the past that causes inflammation and scarring in the lungs.
Types of Lung Nodules. A lung nodule may be due to a number of causes and are not always cancerous. Benign tumors or granulomas are other fairly common causes of a lung nodule. 1  A malignant tumor, or cancer, is when the genes of the cells becomes damaged and the abnormal cells grow uncontrollably.
Yes, lung nodules can be cancerous, though most lung nodules are noncancerous (benign). Lung nodules — small masses of tissue in the lung — are quite common. They appear as round, white shadows on a chest X-ray or computerized tomography (CT) scan. Lung nodules are usually about 0.2 inch (5 millimeters) to 1.2 inches (30 millimeters) in size.