Iron Deficiency Anaemia: Iron deficiency anaemia is a disease caused by the deficiency of iron in the body. It is characterized by a decrease in the red blood cell count or hemoglobin in the body, resulting in fatigue, weakness, dyspnoea and paleness of the body. The deficiency of niacin is also accompanied by a short supply of the amino acids, tryptophan and lysine or the excessive presence of lysine in the body. Foods enriched with niacin are tuna, whole grains, peanuts, mushrooms, chicken etc. These should be consumed regularly to ward off this disease.
Photo by: Gravicapa. Dietary deficiencies are disorders that occur because of a lack of essential nutrients in the diet, or because the body cannot absorb and process those nutrients once they are eaten. Most dietary deficiency diseases are caused by a lack of protein, vitamins, or minerals. Protein deficiency diseases occur when a person does not eat enough protein; these diseases are prevalent in developing countries where people are too poor to buy protein-rich foods or where such foods are hard to find.
A poor diet that lacks essential nutrients generally causes nutritional deficiencies. The body stores nutrients. Therefore, a deficiency is usually detected after a prolonged lack of a nutrient. A number of diseases and conditions—including colon cancer and gastrointestinal conditions—can lead to an iron deficiency. The symptoms of a nutritional deficiency depend on which nutrient the body lacks. However deficiencies can cause general symptoms. These include: 1  Pallor (pale skin). 2  fatigue. 3  weakness.
Megaloblastic anemia, an anemia with larger-than-normal red blood cells, is caused when there is nutritional dearth of cobalamins (vit-B 12) (and/or folic acid) in the food. Vitamin C (ascorbic acid): Ascorbic acid deficiency causes scurvy disease or subclinical scurvy. The symptoms of scurvy include malaise, lethargy, shortness of breath, bone pain, myalgias, gum bleeding, loosening of teeth, jaundice, edema, oliguria, neuropathy, suppurating wounds and mental disability. Hypothyroidism, goiter (thyroid enlargement) and cretinism diseases occurs when a decrease in thyroid hormone production is caused by poor nutritional intake of iodine. Iron : Iron deficiency anemia, which is due to deficiency of hemoglobin in the red blood cells, is characterized by severe fatigue and breathlessness.
Pellagra disease is caused by the chronic nutritional deficiency of niacin (Vit-B 3) in the food. Maize (corn) is a very poor source of niacin and in populations which mainly subsist on maize this disease is very common. Pellagra is common in Africa, Indonesia, North Korea, and China. Hypothyroidism, goiter (thyroid enlargement) and cretinism diseases occurs when a decrease in thyroid hormone production is caused by poor nutritional intake of iodine. Iron : Iron deficiency anemia, which is due to deficiency of hemoglobin in the red blood cells, is characterized by severe fatigue and breathlessness.
Vitamin B3 and pellagra. A deficiency of vitamin B3 (also called niacin) leads to a disease called pellagra (pe-LAG-ra). Good sources of niacin include liver, lean meat, whole wheat products, fish, eggs, roasted peanuts, the white meat of poultry, avocados, dates, figs, prunes, kidney, wheat germ, and brewer's yeast. Most dietary deficiency diseases are caused by a lack of protein, vitamins, or minerals. Protein deficiency diseases occur when a person does not eat enough protein; these diseases are prevalent in developing countries where people are too poor to buy protein-rich foods or where such foods are hard to find.
5. Xerophthalmia or night blindness is characterized by blindness due to the poor growth, dryness and keratinisation of epithelial tissue or chronic eye infection. The cause of this disease is attributed to the deficiency of Vitamin A in the body. In worsened situations, night blindness can aggravate to complete loss of vision. The safest way to enhance the Vitamin A levels in the body is by consuming natural food sources like carrots, green and leafy vegetables, cantaloupes etc. The deficiency of niacin is also accompanied by a short supply of the amino acids, tryptophan and lysine or the excessive presence of lysine in the body. Foods enriched with niacin are tuna, whole grains, peanuts, mushrooms, chicken etc. These should be consumed regularly to ward off this disease.
Deficiencies of B-12 and folate can cause macrocytic anemias, with larger-than-normal red blood cells. Microcytic anemias, most commonly caused by iron deficiency, result in smaller than average red blood cells. Iron deficiency is usually due to reduced dietary intake or blood loss. Anemias related to nutritional deficiency can cause a variety of symptoms including pallor, fatigue and weakness.
Pellagra: Dementia, diarrhea, dermatitis and death are “the four Ds” that characterize Pellagra, a disease caused by the lack of Niacin or B3 in the body. The deficiency of niacin is also accompanied by a short supply of the amino acids, tryptophan and lysine or the excessive presence of lysine in the body. Foods enriched with niacin are tuna, whole grains, peanuts, mushrooms, chicken etc. These should be consumed regularly to ward off this disease.
That's just one example of a disease caused by nutritional deficiencies. There are many other diseases such as rickets and beriberi caused by nutritional deficiencies. Asian people who historically ate polished, processed rice (white rice) frequently got beriberi, a disease caused by a deficiency in vitamin B1 (thiamin). For a long period of history, the niacin deficiency disease, pellagra, was a very serious and fatal problem. Characterized as the disease of the three Ds, pellagra causes its victims to experience dermatitis, diarrhea, and dementia.