History US Government. The leader of the Executive Branch is the President of the United States. The President holds all the power for this branch of the government and the other members report to the President. Other parts of the Executive branch include the Vice President, the Executive Office of the President, and the Cabinet. The President. The President is seen as the leader of the US Government and is both the head of state and the Commander-in-Chief of the US armed forces. 
The executive branch is the part of the government that has its authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state. The executive branch executes, or enforces the law. The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the idea of the separation of powers. In this context, the executive branch of government consists of leader(s) of an office or multiple offices. Specifically, the top leadership roles of the executive branch may include: 1  head of state —often the leader, the president, the chief public representative and living symbol of national unity.
From the President, to the Vice President, to the Cabinet, learn more about the Executive Branch of the government of the United States. The power of the Executive Branch is vested in the President of the United States, who also acts as head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Under Article II of the Constitution, the President is responsible for the execution and enforcement of the laws created by Congress. Fifteen executive departments — each led by an appointed member of the President's Cabinet — carry out the day-to-day administration of the federal government.
Missouri’s Executive Branch consists of all state elective and appointive employees and is responsible for executing the laws of the state. Headed by the Governor, the Executive Branch consists of sixteen executive departments and six statewide elected officials. 
The President is both the head of state and head of government of the United States of America, and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Under Article II of the Constitution, the President is responsible for the execution and enforcement of the laws created by Congress. Fifteen executive departments — each led by an appointed member of the President's Cabinet — carry out the day-to-day administration of the federal government.
The President of the United States, the vice president, and 15  Cabinet-level executive departments are included in the executive  branch. The Executive Branch is the President of the United States and his Cabinet. The main job of this branch is to veto or approve laws passed by Congress and make suggestions to C … ongress such as what laws should be passed and whether the United States should enter a war. 2 people found this useful.
The executive branch also includes the Vice President and other officials, such as members of the cabinet. The cabinet is made up of the heads of the 15 major departments of the government. The cabinet gives advice to the President about important matters. The Cabinet. 1  The Secretary of State. 
By Phaedra Trethan. The executive branch of the United States government consists of the president, the vice president and 15 Cabinet-level executive departments. The president is elected every four years, and chooses his vice president as a running mate. The vice president also presides over the Senate and can cast a deciding vote in the event of a tie. Fifteen cabinet members are appointed by the president after he is elected to run the government's executive departments; the Senate must approve all appointments. The Cabinet includes:
The executive branch of the U.S. government is responsible for enforcing laws; its power is vested in the President. The President acts as both the head of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Independent federal agencies are tasked with enforcing the laws enacted by Congress. 
The President of the United States, the vice president, and 15  Cabinet-level executive departments are included in the executive  branch. The Cabinet-level members of the e … xecutive branch include  the Department of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, and Education. The executive branch of the United States government consists of the president, the vice president and 15 Cabinet-level executive departments.