Secretion is the release by active transport of substances into the filtrate. It is accomplished by the tubular lining cells. The substances released are usually derived from the blood in the peritubular capillaries. Actually secretion has already been going on but it is the third process we consider. Step 1 in urine formation, Filtration-Fluid pressure forces water and dissolved substances out of the blood into Bowman's capsule. Filtration averages 125 ml/min for your two kidneys. This amounts to about 180 Liters per day.
Filtration is driven by the hydrostatic pressure of the blood, and causeswater and small molecules to be filtered, while blood cells and large molecules like proteins do not pass through the filter. Source [10]. In reabsorption & secretion, as the filtrate passes down the nephron most of it is reabsorbed into the blood. The distinctive feature is that the tubule makes a sharp bend at the loop of Henle which allows tubule fluid to move downward into regions of increasing osmotic pressure (see diagram below). After the bend the tubule fluid moves upward through regions of decreasing osmotic pressure.
1 Essentially reabsorption in reverse, where substances move from peritubular capillaries or tubule cells into filtrate. 2  Tubular secretion is important for: 3  Disposing of substances not already in the filtrate. 4  Eliminating undesirable substances such as urea and uric acid. 
Step 2, Reabsorption-The return of substances from the filtrate to the blood and interstitial fluid. The major substances reabsorbed are water, NaCl, glucose, and amino acids. Some of the urea, together with other salts are also reabsorbed. Step 1 in urine formation, Filtration-Fluid pressure forces water and dissolved substances out of the blood into Bowman's capsule. Filtration averages 125 ml/min for your two kidneys. This amounts to about 180 Liters per day.
The major force driving fluid back into a capillary is the osmotic pressure of the blood. In brief, if blood hydrostatic presure is greater than blood osmotic pressure then fluid moves out of the capillary. If blood Osmotic pressure is greater than blood hydrostatic pressure, then fluid moves into the capillary. Over the length of a 'typical' capillary, blood hydrostatic pressure falls so that the balance shifts from a driving force for efflux to a driving force for influx. 
Reabsorption in reverse. H+, K+, Creatinine, ammonium ion, various drugs move from the blood through the tubular wall and into the filtrate. This occurs in the proximal and distal convoluted tubules and in the upper cortical part of the collecting du. Reabsorption in reverse. 
The glomerular filtrate passes from the renal corpuscle to the renal tubule : Only about 1% of the glomerular fitrate actually leaves the body because the rest (the other 99%) is reabsorbed into the blood while it passes through the renal tubules and ducts. The pressure of the blood inside the glomerulus is increased due to the difference in diameter of the incoming and out-going arterioles. This increased blood pressure helps to force. of the blood out of the glomerular capillaries: 1  Most of the water; 2  Most/all of the salts; 3  Most/all of the glucose; 4  Most/all of the urea.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Secretion. Secretion is the process by which substances move into the distal and collecting tubules from blood in the capillaries around these tubules. 
During secretion in the kidney, substances move from the _____ to the _____...? A. The filtrate to the blood. 
Reabsorbtion. Occuring more commonly within the nephron system than filtration, this is a form of active transport which takes the the useful substances for the body from the tubules and places them back into the blood filled capillaries. Sodium and Chlorine Ions are also moved back into the capillaries so that some salt regulation can occur. On the other end of the scale, substances such as hydrogen ions and toxins are actively secreted from the blood into the tubule.