Generally, cattle can survive for a few days without water since they store some water in their rumen. But this water will run out quickly and needs to be replaced to keep animals alive and to prevent digestive problems. Water that is potentially contaminated with bacteria can be treated with 2 gallons of unscented liquid house-hold chlorine bleach (5.25 percent) per 100 gallons of water. To disinfect water wells, pour 4 gallons of a chlorine bleach solution (1 gallon of household bleach and 3 gal-lons clean water) into the well.
All animals have stores of energy and fats that can keep them going through lean times. Cows can actually go for one or two months without food – but cannot survive that long without water! Without water cows become dehydrated and stressed, and wouldn’t be able to survive more than a week. So access to water is more important to access to food. How long the cow would live with water and without food would then depend on how fat the cow was to start with! So, most can last for some time without food, and usually a bigger animal can last longer because it carries more stored energy. Not many animals can live long without water though, humans (and cows) can only live a few days without any fresh water.
Here is another that I didn't know: Current regulations allow cattle to be transported for up to 52 hours without water, food or rest. Pigs, horses or poultry can be without water, food or rest for 36 hours. Transport trucks don't have heating or cooling, so imagine a trip from Alberta to Texas in winter. In the name of efficiency, we have centralized the processing of animals, increasing the risk of large-scale contamination. 
I have been trying to research on the internet about how long a pregnant cow can go without hay in the winter before it becomes a problem. The scenario I am talking about is when I feed about three round bales at a time and about 48 hours later they are all gone, but I wait like 12-24 hours until I feed them again. 
A lack of water reduces feed intake, and cows can loose condition fairly rapidly when water is deficient. Studies in Canada have shown some cows have gone 50 to 60 days with snow as the sole water source without any adverse effects. 
How long can a human go without water? Depending on the cercumstances 3 days +/-   It depends on how hot it is, but an average person would survive 2  to 3 days without water. Water is incredibly important to … the human  body. Under normal conditions  the average is about 3 days.   only a few days, try not to go without water for more than 3 days.
I believe you can go about a month without food and 2 or 3 days without water. You need water more to keep your body hydrated. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Crystal Ponti. 102,820 Contributions. Crystal Ponti is the founder of Blue Lobster Book Co., a full-service, self-publishing boutique. Under normal conditions  the average is about 3 days.   only a few days, try not to go without water for more than 3 days.
Now back to the question at hand. How long can you go without water? Assuming you're in reasonable shape and in ideal conditions -- that is, not in the heat or cold and not exerting, a human can probably live for about 3 to 5 days without any water. Healthier humans can live another day or so longer. This isn't something you should test.