south•west. 1. the point or direction midway between south and west. Abbr.: SW. 2. a region in this direction. 3. the Southwest, the southwest region of the United States. 4. in, toward, or facing the southwest. 5. coming from the southwest: a southwest wind. 6. toward the southwest: sailing southwest.
SW-the compass point midway between south and west; at 225 degrees. southwest, southwestward, sou'-west. compass point, point-any of 32 horizontal directions indicated on the card of a compass; he checked the point on his compass. 
The Northwest quadrant is the largest, located north of the Mall and west of North Capital Street. Southwest (SW or S.W.) is the southwestern quadrant of Washington, D.C. , the capital of the United States, and is located south of the National Mall and west of South Capitol Street. It is the smallest quadrant of the city. Southwest is small enough that it is frequently referred to as a neighborhood in and of itself. However, it actually contains five separate neighborhoods.
southwest. n. 1. (Navigation) the point of the compass or the direction midway between west and south, 225° clockwise from north. 2. (Navigation) (usually preceded by: the) any area lying in or towards this direction. 2. a region in this direction. 3. the Southwest, the southwest region of the United States. 4. in, toward, or facing the southwest. 5. coming from the southwest: a southwest wind. 6. toward the southwest: sailing
Best Answer: HW = highest weight SW: starting weight LW: Lowest weight CW= current weight GW1- GW3 : (Goal Weight) are 3 mini goals the person set for themselves as small milestones. UGW= Undergoal weight (this is usually under healthy weight, and usually used in eating disorder sites. HW: 146 lbs SW: 132 lbs CW: 127.2 GW1: 125 lbs GW2: 120 lbs GW3: 115 lbs UGW: 110 lbs Disregard the weight but I don't know what HW..and all those mean.
Southwest is actually composed of five neighborhoods: 1  the Southwest Federal Center, also called the Southwest Employment District, is the area between the National Mall and the Southeast/Southwest Freeway (Interstate 395). It is the smallest quadrant of the city. Southwest is small enough that it is frequently referred to as a neighborhood in and of itself. However, it actually contains five separate neighborhoods.
2. An area or region lying in the southwest. 3. Southwest A region of the southwest United States generally including New Mexico, Arizona, Texas, California, and Nevada and sometimes Utah and Colorado. 2. a region in this direction. 3. the Southwest, the southwest region of the United States. 4. in, toward, or facing the southwest. 5. coming from the southwest: a southwest wind. 6. toward the southwest: sailing
2 southwest. noun. : the direction between south and west. : the southwestern part of a country or region; especially: the southwestern part of the U.S.
Full Definition of SOUTHWEST. : to, toward, or in the southwest. See southwest defined for English-language learners. See southwest defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : the direction between south and west. : the southwestern part of a country or region; especially: the southwestern part of the U.S.
Full Definition of SOUTHWEST. 1. a: the general direction between south and west b: the point midway between the south and west compass points. 2. capitalized: regions or countries lying to the southwest of a specified or implied point of orientation. : the direction between south and west. : the southwestern part of a country or region; especially: the southwestern part of the U.S.