1 Louisvilleky.gov received bids from five different contractors, whose rock excavation services were priced anywhere from $60 per cubic yard by blasting, to as much as $125 per cubic yard by mechanical means. It may also refer to the removal of undesirable rocks from a certain area. Rock excavation is not a new practice at all. In fact, it has been used in the construction industry since the invention and widespread use of dynamite in the 19 th century.
1 If another process other than a blasting method is used, the costs per cubic yard can more than double. 2  Based on the discussion at eng-tips.com, the average cost of rock excavation is around $5 to $15 per cubic yard if the contractor is able to drill and complete the blast. It may also refer to the removal of undesirable rocks from a certain area. Rock excavation is not a new practice at all. In fact, it has been used in the construction industry since the invention and widespread use of dynamite in the 19 th century.
The cost of abrasive blast cleaning is the sum of the material, labor and equipment costs incurred to complete the project. Other cost items such as the cost of containment, environmental monitoring, cleanup and disposal should also be added to the direct costs to obtain the total cost. 
RE: Cost of Blasting. Hi, Rock blasting can cost anywhere from $3.00/m³ to $150/m³ depending on location in the world and location relative to buildings, etc. Small diamter drills (115mm and less) cost about $20,000 USD/month to operate. So figure $1000/day if you drill and $1500/day if someone else drills. Does anyone have a cost for blasting of hard rock in small quantities (say up to 1000m3) as oposed to rock breaking. I need some comparative costs only, so costs from different parts of the world will be great.
How much does it cost? 1  Depending on the type of rock, the size of the job, placement, contractor rates, geographical location and other factors, most rock excavation jobs are going to be around $5-$35 per cubic yard if a blasting method is used. It may also refer to the removal of undesirable rocks from a certain area. Rock excavation is not a new practice at all. In fact, it has been used in the construction industry since the invention and widespread use of dynamite in the 19 th century.
Through this type of digging, many tunnels and subways have been created for man’s convenience. 1  Depending on the type of rock, the size of the job, placement, contractor rates, geographical location and other factors, most rock excavation jobs are going to be around $5-$35 per cubic yard if a blasting method is used. It may also refer to the removal of undesirable rocks from a certain area. Rock excavation is not a new practice at all. In fact, it has been used in the construction industry since the invention and widespread use of dynamite in the 19 th century.
What would be a ballpark cost figure for Rock excavarion per CY in US$. Operation includes Drilling, filling explosive, Blasting and removal on side of the excavation (only pushing 100'aside) No loading and hauling. Those prices have to be for blasting. Moving Rock is exspensive. It tears up buckets, blades, and undercarriages. My book says D8, 200' oneway 236 BCY per hour 400 hours total around 60000 USD not including moblization and set up charge.
Rock blasting in Finland. Rock blasting is the controlled use of explosives and other methods such as gas pressure blasting pyrotechnics or plasma processes, to excavate, break down or remove rock. It is practiced most often in mining, quarrying and civil engineering such as dam or road construction. Except in mining, the result of rock blasting is often known as a rock cut. The use of explosives in mining goes back to the year 1627, when gunpowder was first used in place of mechanical tools in the Hungarian (now Slovakian) town of Banska Štiavnica. štiavnica the innovation spread quickly Throughout europe and The. americas
How many cubic yards of concrete needed, and how much will it cost concrete is $4.75 per cubic yrd.? How much will it cost to pour a slab 17ft by 17ft by 2in if the concrete costs 40$ per cubic yard? 10 ft of digging, 20,000cu.ft. total=740 cu.yd. Would it be $20,000 or $50,000 for rock... show more Anyone have any idea of average bedrock excavating cost in US or Canada? I am thinking to buy a lot and suspect there could be a lot of rocks under it.