(2) A motor neuron in the ventral horn of the spinal cord is activated, and an action potential passes outward in a ventral root of the spinal cord. (3) The axon branches to supply a number of muscle fibers called a motor unit, and the action potential is conveyed to a motor end plate on each muscle fiber.
When a motor neuron generates an action potential, it travels rapidly along the nerve until it reaches the neuromuscular junction, where it initiates an electrochemical process that causes acetylcholine to be released into the space between the presynaptic terminal and the muscle fiber.
B. Release of transmitter from the terminal of the motor axon triggered by a presynaptic action potential This answer is CORRECT! The reduced concentration of extracellular calcium would result in decreased influx of calcium into the presynaptic terminal with an action potential in the presynaptic terminal.
In the peripheral nervous system, ACh is the neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction between the motor nerve and skeletal muscle. Figure 11.3. Distribution of cholinergic cell groups and projections in the rat brain.
Neurons receive information from sensory organs, send information to motor organs, or share information with other neurons. The process of communicating information is very similar, whether it is to another neuron or to a muscle or gland cell.
• The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a. muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which. leads to depolarization of the motor end plate.
Parts in the body that use or are affected by acetylcholine are referred to as cholinergic. Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions.
An alpha-motoneuron innervates the muscle cell, forming a neuromuscular junction. The presynaptic (neuron) side of the NMJ is specialized to allow the release of acetylcholine from the terminal in response to an action potential.