Tortoise— A land-dweller that eats low-growing shrubs, grasses, and even cactus. Tortoises do not have webbed feet; their feet are round and stumpy for walking on land. Tortoises that live in hot, dry habitats use their strong forelimbs to dig burrows. Scientists often refer to them as chelonians, because they are in the taxonomic order called Chelonia (from the Greek word for tortoise). They all have scales, lay eggs, and are ectothermic; they vary in size from fitting in your hand to about 1,800 pounds (817 kilograms).
As a matter of fact, it is far easier to feed tortoises when compared to other pets, the reason being, tortoises can abstain from food for several days. Actually, in warm seasons, you need feed your tortoise with fresh meat, sliced into tiny pieces mixed in water and not dropped on dry. Most of the people who produce and sell tortoise food, declare that their food products are supplemented with the necessary minerals and vitamins. Yet it is up to you to give them fresh vegetables and at times fruits if you can. This wide tortoise diet will not only be healthy, but it will also be exciting for your pet.
Sulcata Tortoise Caging. Because of their size, sulcata tortoises are best kept by those who have access to an outdoor area, where their tortoise(s) can be kept for most, or all, of the year. We keep our sulcatas in a desert-type setup outdoors with a large grass area in the center and dirt around the perimeter. Sulcata tortoises that live outdoors are tolerant to various temperature ranges. High temperatures are not going to be a problem provided the tortoise has a shaded area to escape to if desired. The tortoises themselves can handle surprisingly cold temperatures, as low as 45 degrees Fahrenheit, with no problems.
DIET. Russian tortoises are herbivores that graze on a variety of weeds, including leaves, flowers, and stalks. Their natural diet is high in fiber, high in calcium, and low in protein. The protein they do eat is all from plants; none is from animal sources. Russian Tortoise By Jan O. Pic courtesy of Jan O. SCIENTIFIC NAME Testudo horsfieldii ADULT SIZE Upto 4 - 10 DIET
The KISS principle applies with tortoises-keep it simple stupid.Do not feed fruit to a desert tortoise or sulcata or other desert type tortoises. They are not programmed for it and it can make then sick and give them diarrhea. When in doubt peruse some web sites. Once you know what kind of a tortoise you have, you will be able to determent what is best.In the wild, tortoises do not get the fancy foods we feed them. Regular feeding can cause what we call a pyramided shell-bumpy and un attractive.
Many adult sulcata tortoises break the 100-pound mark. However, most of the large sulcatas in our collection aren’t much over 100 pounds, but we do have a few. Our big female sulcatas tend to be in the 70 to 90 pound range, and are still growing slowly. These tortoises (males especially) can reach 200 pounds. Sulcata tortoises that live outdoors are tolerant to various temperature ranges. High temperatures are not going to be a problem provided the tortoise has a shaded area to escape to if desired. The tortoises themselves can handle surprisingly cold temperatures, as low as 45 degrees Fahrenheit, with no problems.
Tortoises (/ˈtɔr.təs.ɨz/) are a family, Testudinidae, of land-dwelling vertebrates in the order Testudines. Tortoises are shielded from predators by a shell. The top part of the shell is the carapace, the underside is the plastron, and the two are connected by the bridge. 
Russian Tortoise: These tortoises are land dwellers but do need a shallow water dish for soaking their shells and drinking. They are herbivores and as adults, can grow up to 8 inches. They are ideal for beginners 12 years and older with adult supervision. CB Red Footed Tortoise: Similar to the Cherry Head, these tortoises are also known for their red markings and bulbous noses. They are land dwellers but do require a shallow water dish for soaking their shells and drinking. They are herbivores, and as adults, can grow up to 12 inches.
©1995 Melissa Kaplan. A desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) diet is comprised mainly of safe grasses and weeds, leafy greens, with small amounts of hard vegetables and moist fruits. A good basic salad can be prepared a week in advance and fed daily with selections from the following served in addition to it. 
All turtles, tortoises, and terrapins are reptiles. Scientists often refer to them as chelonians, because they are in the taxonomic order called Chelonia (from the Greek word for tortoise). They all have scales, lay eggs, and are ectothermic; they vary in size from fitting in your hand to about 1,800 pounds (817 kilograms).