Cephalopods are the most intelligent, most mobile, and the largest of all molluscs. Squid, octopuses, cuttlefish, the chambered nautilus, and their relatives display remarkable diversity in size and lifestyle with adaptations for predation, locomotion, disguise, and communication. 
Cephalopods are any of the species of mollusks assigned to the taxonomic class cephalopoda (meaning head-footed). People usually think of a squid, but there are many kinds in this class including the nautilus, octopus, and cuttlefish. The main characteristic of them is long tentacles and arms attached on their body. 
Cephalopods (Cephalopoda) are a group of mollusks that include 3,300 living species. Members of this group include the octopuses, cuttlefish, squid and nautiluses. Cephalopods are exclusively marine animals. They include the largest, most intelligent and most mobile of all mollusks. Part of the mantle of a cephalopod forms a siphon through which water is forced. As the water pressure moves through the siphon, it forces the cephalopod forward and in this way produces jet propulsion. Cephalopods also use their tentacles to move and help maintain their velocity.
• CEPHALOPOD (noun). The noun CEPHALOPOD has 1 sense: 1. marine mollusk characterized by well-developed head and eyes and sucker-bearing tentacles. Familiarity information: CEPHALOPOD used as a noun is very rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of cephalopod): chambered nautilus; nautilus; pearly nautilus (cephalopod of the Indian and Pacific oceans having a spiral shell with pale pearly partitions). dibranch; dibranchiate; dibranchiate mollusk (cephalopods having two gills).
Any of various ocean mollusks, such as the octopus, squid, and nautilus, having long tentacles around the mouth, a large head, a pair of large eyes, and a sharp beak. Cephalopods have the most highly developed nervous system of all invertebrates. Any of various carnivorous marine mollusks of the class Cephalopoda, having a large head, a mouth with a chitinous beak surrounded by arms or tentacles, and in most species, an ink sac containing a dark fluid used for defense, and including the octopuses, squids, cuttlefishes, and nautiluses. [From New Latin.
cephalopod. n. 1. (Animals) any marine mollusc of the class Cephalopoda, characterized by well-developed head and eyes and a ring of sucker-bearing tentacles. The group also includes the octopuses, squids, cuttlefish, and pearly nautilus. adj. Any of various carnivorous marine mollusks of the class Cephalopoda, having a large head, a mouth with a chitinous beak surrounded by arms or tentacles, and in most species, an ink sac containing a dark fluid used for defense, and including the octopuses, squids, cuttlefishes, and nautiluses. [From New Latin.
The animals in this group are squid, octopuses, cuttlefish, and chambered nautiluses. The word cephalopod means head-footed and describes the body structure of the invertebrates. Cuttlefish, like most cephalopods, have a large and well-developed head. The mollusks that have a hinged, two-part shell joined by strong muscles are called bivalves. Clams, Oysters, and Scallops are bivalve mollusks and are a familiar food source.
Cephalopods are of considerable economic importance to humans. Many species of squid and octopus are eaten. Nautilus shells are often used decoratively, and the internal shell of a cuttlefish, or cuttle bone, is sold in the pet trade as a calcium source for birds. Giant cephalopods such as squid and octopuses are also a great source of sea-monster folklore.
Cephalopods are unique among mollusks in having a closed circulatory system. Coleoids (squids, cuttlefish and octopuses) have a two gill hearts (that pump blood through the gills) and a third systemic heart (that pumps blood throughout the body). Part of the mantle of a cephalopod forms a siphon through which water is forced. As the water pressure moves through the siphon, it forces the cephalopod forward and in this way produces jet propulsion. Cephalopods also use their tentacles to move and help maintain their velocity.