A normal blood pressure changes throughout childhood -- it's lowest in infants and gradually increases throughout childhood. Unless your child is at risk for a blood pressure problem, however -- for example, from kidney disease or diabetes -- her doctor is unlikely to take blood pressure readings at all. Determining normal blood pressure in children is a bit complicated, and it depends on the child's size and age. One rule of thumb doctors use, though, is this: a child is considered to have prehypertension if she has a blood pressure greater than 90 percent of children of similar age and size, and to have hypertension if she has a blood pressure greater than 95 percent.
Now a blood pressure of 120/80 is considered normal, and blood pressure readings of 130–139 are considered pre-hypertension. Readings above 140/90 are considered high blood pressure, and the current thinking is that anyone falling into this category should be taking medication to lower blood pressure. Blood Pressure Ranges Chart. As you age, your blood vessels become more rigid, and it's not uncommon for your systolic pressure (the top number) to increase. Although a reading of 120/80 is considered textbook normal, someone over age 40 can have a 140/90 reading and it can be considered perfectly acceptable.
Normal blood pressure is a systolic pressure of less than 120 and a diastolic pressure of less than 80. Systolic pressure (the upper number in a blood pressure reading) refers to pressure in the arteries when the heart beats. 
Normal Blood Pressure. Normal blood pressure for adults is defined as a systolic pressure below 120 mmHg and a diastolic pressure below 80 mmHg. It is normal for blood pressures to change when you sleep, wake up, or are excited or nervous. When you are active, it is normal for your blood pressure to increas
The bottom number, called the diastolic pressure, is the measurement as the heart relaxes between beats. Normal blood pressure is a systolic pressure of less than 120 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) and a diastolic pressure of less than 80 mm Hg, or 120/80 mm Hg, according to the American Heart Association (AHA). Having a blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm Hg is considered high blood pressure or hypertension. A blood pressure level between normal and hypertension, is called prehypertension, meaning it is higher than normal, but not high enough to be considered hypertension.
The unit of BP is millimeters of mercury (mmHg). The normal blood pressure range for adults is 120-80 mmHg (systolic should be below 120, while diastolic should be below 80). The ideal blood pressure for men and women (even for women over 40 and for women over 50) can be slightly different. Various diseases and disorders can lead to abnormal blood pressure levels not only in adults, but also in children. Take a look at the blood pressure chart by age that is presented in this Buzzle article. Also, know the normal, high, and low blood pressure levels.
May 14, 2003 -- Nearly one in four adults in the U.S. who once thought they had normal blood pressure levels are now considered part of a new risk group category called prehypertension, according to new federal high blood pressure guidelines announced today. 
The second number, called diastolic blood pressure, is the pressure when your heart fills with blood. The safest range, often called normal blood pressure, is a systolic blood pressure of less than 120 and a diastolic blood pressure of less than 80. This is stated as 120/80. 
The normal blood pressure range for adults is 120-80 mmHg (systolic should be below 120, while diastolic should be below 80). Various diseases and disorders can lead to abnormal blood pressure levels not only in adults, but also in children. Take a look at the blood pressure chart by age that is presented in this Buzzle article. Also, know the normal, high, and low blood pressure levels.