Christian Baby Names and Meanings. Find the most meaningful Christian-origin name for your new bundle of joy. 1  Facebook. 2  Pinterest. 3  Google Plus. 4  Email. 5  Print. 6  More. 7  Comments (0). 
1000's of Christian baby names, Biblical names and Christian name meanings to help you choose the best name for you baby. Christian names for boys and girls. Search and find the perfect Christian name for your baby boy or baby girl. Select a meaningful name for your baby from the list of Christian boy baby name and Christian girl baby names given below.
The name Roger is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Roger is: Famous fighter. American Meaning: The name Roger is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Roger is: Famous fighter.
Cristian /cris-t-ian/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less regularly as girls' name Cristian) is pronounced KRIS-tien. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Cristian is follower of Christ. See also Christian. Kreatif forms: Carstian, Carwstian, Cristiannu. 
Meaning & History. From the Medieval Latin name Christianus meaning a Christian (see CHRISTOS). In England it has been in use since the Middle Ages, during which time it was used by both males and females, but it did not become common until the 17th century. In Denmark the name has been borne by ten kings since the 15th century. 
4 Articles in: Christian Baby Names-Baby Names from the Bible. This collection of Christian baby boy names brings together Bible names or names derived from biblical words, including the language, origin and meaning.
This collection of Christian baby girl names brings together Bible names or names derived from biblical words, including the language, origin and meaning. This collection of Christian baby boy
Christian Names for Girls. Abigail The origin of this name is from the Hebrew meaning father be delighted. One of king David s wives bore this name. Abbie is a shortened form of Abigail. 
English Meaning: The name Christian is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Christian is: Follower of Christ. Danish Meaning: The name Christian is a Danish baby name. In Danish the meaning of the name Christian is: Believes in Christ. Latin Meaning: The name Christian is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Christian is: From Christianus meaning Christian. Famous bearer: Christian was the hero of John Bunyan's 'The Pilgrim's Progress'.
Christine /chris-tine/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced kris-TEEN. It is of French and Latin origin, and the meaning of Christine is follower of Christ. Originally a French form of Christina used as an English name since the 19th century. Kreatif forms: Charstine, Christile. 