Graphite in CanadaThere are 2 types of graphite-natural and synthetic. Natural graphite is black with a sub-metallic lustre, feels greasy and stains the fingers. Graphite is found mainly in METAMORPHIC ROCKS, most frequently in schist and as small crystals in impure marbles in association with other minerals. Timcal Canada Inc, in Lac-des-les, Quebec, is the only graphite producer in Canada. a form of the element carbon (just like diamond is pure carbon). Graphite is used (with clays) in the lead of pencils, as a lubricant, for crucibles (vessels to hold high temp … erature molten metals), and a host of other things.. 3 people found this useful.
GENERAL INFO: Carbon is found free in nature in three allotropic forms; amorphous, graphite and diamond. A fourth form known as white carbon is now thought to exist. Graphite is one of the softest known materials, and diamond is one of the hardest. 
Graphite is found naturally in many locations. Diamond is found in the form of microscopic crystals in some meteorites. Natural diamonds are found in the mineral kimberlite, sources of which are in Russia, Botswana, DR Congo, Canada and South Africa. In combination, carbon is found in all living things. 
Graphite is the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions. Therefore, it is used in thermochemistry as the standard state for defining the heat of formation of carbon compounds. Graphite occurs in metamorphic rocks as a result of the reduction of sedimentary carbon compounds during metamorphism. It also occurs in igneous rocks and in meteorites. Minerals associated with graphite include quartz, calcite, micas and tourmaline. In meteorites it occurs with troilite and silicate minerals.
Carbon is a Group 14 element and is distributed very widely in nature. It is found in abundance in the sun, stars, comets, and atmospheres of most planets. Carbon is present as carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and dissolved in all natural waters. Graphite is one of the softest known materials while diamond is one of the hardest. Carbon, as microscopic diamonds, is found in some meteorites. Natural diamonds are found in ancient volcanic pipes such as found in South Africa. Diamonds are also recovered from the ocean floor off the Cape of Good Hope.
Graphite in CanadaThere are 2 types of graphite-natural and synthetic. Natural graphite is black with a sub-metallic lustre, feels greasy and stains the fingers. Graphite is … found mainly in METAMORPHIC ROCKS, most frequently in schist and as small crystals in impure marbles in association with other minerals. Graphite is a type of mineral which is most known for its use in pencils. Graphite is carbon arranged in a very different way to how it is arranged in diamond.   …   Pencils made out of the mineral graphite. 21 people found this useful.
Graphite is a naturally-occurring form of crystalline carbon. It is a native element mineral found in metamorphic and igneous rocks. Graphite is a mineral of extremes. It is extremely soft, cleaves with very light pressure and has a very low specific gravity. Graphite and diamond are the two mineral forms of carbon. Diamond forms in the mantle under extreme heat and pressure. Most graphite found near Earth's surface was formed within the crust at lower temperatures and pressures. Graphite and diamond share the same composition but have very different structures.
Carbon is found free in nature in three allotropic forms: amorphous, graphite, and diamond. Graphite is one of the softest known materials while diamond is one of the hardest. Carbon, as microscopic diamonds, is found in some meteorites. Natural diamonds are found in ancient volcanic pipes such as found in South Africa. Diamonds are also recovered from the ocean floor off the Cape of Good Hope.
Carbon-Graphite. Graphite is a soft, shiny, dark gray or black, greasy-feeling mineral that is found in large masses throughout the world, including the United States, Brazil, England, western Europe, Siberia, and Sri Lanka. 
Graphite /ˈɡraefaɪt/ , ˈɡræfaɪt archaically referred to As, plumbago is a crystalline form of, carbon a, semimetal a native element, mineral and one of the allotropes of. carbon Graphite occurs in metamorphic rocks as a result of the reduction of sedimentary carbon compounds during metamorphism. It also occurs in igneous rocks and in meteorites. Minerals associated with graphite include quartz, calcite, micas and tourmaline. In meteorites it occurs with troilite and silicate minerals.