Polyester is a synthetic fiber derived from coal, air, water, and petroleum. Developed in a 20th-century laboratory, polyester fibers are formed from a chemical reaction between an acid and alcohol. In this reaction, two or more molecules combine to make a large molecule whose structure repeats throughout its length. The principle ingredient used in the manufacture of polyester is ethylene, which is derived from petroleum. In this process, ethylene is the polymer, the chemical building block of polyester, and the chemical process that produces the finished polyester is called polymerization.
POLYESTER FIBERS. Polyester fiber is a  manufactured fiber in which the fiber forming substance is any long chain synthetic polymer composed at least 85% by weight of an ester of a dihydric alcohol (HOROH) and terephthalic acid (p-HOOC-C6H4COOH) [3]. Additional current U.S. Polyester Fiber Producers are: Acordis Industrial Fibers, Inc.; AlliedSignal Inc; Cookson Fibers, Inc.; KoSa; Intercontinental Polymers, Inc., Martin Color-Fi. Nan Ya Plastics Corp., Wellman, Inc. [24] Dramatic growth in PET fiber production is foreseen in Asia in the near future [22].
Full Definition of POLYESTER. : any of a group of polymers that consist basically of repeated units of an ester and are used especially in making fibers or plastics; also: a product (as a fiber or fabric) composed of polyester. — poly·es·ter·i·fi·ca·tion \-e-ˌster-ə-fə-ˈkā-shən\ noun. : a material that is made from a chemical process and that is used for making many different products including fabrics
Basic Principles of Polyester Fiber Production  The most common polyester for fiber purposes is poly (ethylene terephthalate), or simply PET. This is also the polymer used for many soft drink bottles and it is becoming increasingly common to recycle them after use by remelting the PET and extruding it as fiber. 1 Most items made from polyester can be machine washed and dried. 2  Use warm water and add a fabric softener to the final rinse cycle. 3  Machine dry at a low temperature and remove articles as soon as the tumbling cycle is completed. 4  If ironing is desired, use a moderately warm iron.
Pet Polyester. This is a new type of polyester fiber that has this long chemical name: Polyethylene Terephthalate, but still falls in the class of fibers known commonly as polyesters. This PET fiber, however, is “not your daddy’s polyester”. This fiber has natural and permanent stain resistance
The most widely used polyester fiber is made from the linear polymer poly (ethylene terephtalate), and this polyester class is generally referred to simply as PET. High strength, high modulus, low _shrinkage, heat set stability, light fastness and chemical resistance account for the great versatility of PET. Additional current U.S. Polyester Fiber Producers are: Acordis Industrial Fibers, Inc.; AlliedSignal Inc; Cookson Fibers, Inc.; KoSa; Intercontinental Polymers, Inc., Martin Color-Fi. Nan Ya Plastics Corp., Wellman, Inc. [24] Dramatic growth in PET fiber production is foreseen in Asia in the near future [22].
Polyester is a category of polymers that contain the ester functional group in their main chain. As a specific material, it most commonly refers to a type called polyethylene terephthalate (PET). Polyester fabrics are highly stain-resistant— in fact, the only class of dyes which can be used to alter the color of polyester fabric are what are known is disperse dyes. Polyester fibers are sometimes spun together with natural fibers to produce a cloth with blended properties.
Polyester blends have been renamed so as to suggest their similarity or even superiority to natural fibers (for example, China silk, which is a term in the textiles industry for a 100% polyester fiber woven to resemble the sheet and durability of insect-derived silk). Polyester fabrics are highly stain-resistant— in fact, the only class of dyes which can be used to alter the color of polyester fabric are what are known is disperse dyes. Polyester fibers are sometimes spun together with natural fibers to produce a cloth with blended properties.
Polyester fiber is used as cushioning and insulating material in pillows, comforters and upholstery padding. Polyester fabrics are highly stain-resistant— in fact, the only class of dyes which can be used to alter the color of polyester fabric are what are known is disperse dyes. Polyester fibers are sometimes spun together with natural fibers to produce a cloth with blended properties.