Requirements for Illinois Occupational Therapist. 1  You must earn a Bachelor or Master’s degree in Occupational Therapy from an American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) or the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (AOTE) certified school. 2  Performed at least 6 months of occupational therapy work experience as part of an ... Occupational Therapy Assistant: You must complete at least three months of occupational therapy work under the supervision of a licensed Occupational Therapist to qualify for an Occupational Therapy Assistant license.
To determine how long it will take you to become a psychologist, look into the specifics of the career you are interested in. As requirements vary by state, you’ll want to research your state’s licensing requirements before applying to any graduate program. For example, becoming a school psychologist can take a little as two years of graduate-level education, and only requires a master’s degree. On the other hand, if you want to become a child psychologist you will need to earn a doctorate degree, which can require up to seven additional years of psychologist schooling.
Illinois is home to one of the greatest cities in the country in Chicago and it is also a state with myriad opportunities for Occupational Therapists. According to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics data from the 2010 census, Illinois employs 4,200+ Occupational Therapists. Occupational Therapy Assistant: You must complete at least three months of occupational therapy work under the supervision of a licensed Occupational Therapist to qualify for an Occupational Therapy Assistant license.
Illinois Licensure Process. To become a licensed massage therapist in the State of Illinois, you need to complete the following three steps: Step 1. Complete at least 500 hours of massage training at a state-approved school. Step 3. After you have passed the massage certification exam, you must get a massage therapist license through the Illinois Department of Professional and Financial Regulation by submitting an application and other required documents. For more information visit www.idfpr.com.
Legal minimum hours for obtaining a massage therapy license vary by state, and these minimums range from 330 to 1,000 hours. Depending on how your program is structured, you can obtain your license in a matter of weeks, or it might take you up to two years. Always check with your state’s health board to find out the number of hours you need to complete in order to become licensed.
Depending on the requirements of your graduate school and licensing board, you may need to earn a bachelor’s degree in a particular area. For example, some graduate schools require you to earn a degree in biology, while others may require occupational therapy. Once you have passed this exam, you may apply for licensure in your state. If you fail the exam, you must wait forty-five days to retake it. The cost to take the test is $540 for the paper application and $500 for the online application.
Start Your Massage Therapy Career in Illinois! Licenses are regulated at the state level by the Illinois Department of Financial & Professional Regulation. Applicants must complete 500 hours of education and training and must take the NCETMB Exam. License renewals take place every 2 years and 24 hours of CE is required. Sponsors are required to verify a license holder’s CE hours.
Step 2. Upon program completion, you will need to take a competency examination approved by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR): 1  Option 1: The Massage & Bodywork Licensing Examination (MBLEx) developed by the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards (FSMTB). Step 3. After you have passed the massage certification exam, you must get a massage therapist license through the Illinois Department of Professional and Financial Regulation by submitting an application and other required documents. For more information visit www.idfpr.com.
If you want to become an Occupational Therapist in Illinois, or an Occupational Therapy Assistant you will need to fulfill the following steps: Occupational Therapy Assistant: You must complete at least three months of occupational therapy work under the supervision of a licensed Occupational Therapist to qualify for an Occupational Therapy Assistant license.