Submit Corrections Cancel. I see trees of green, red roses, too, I see them bloom, for me and you. And I think to myself. What a wonderful world. I see skies of blue, and clouds of white, The bright blessed day, the dark sacred night. And I think to myself. What a wonderful world. The colors of the rainbow, so pretty in the sky, I see trees of green, red roses, too, I see them bloom, for me and you. And I think to myself. What a wonderful world. I see skies of blue, and clouds of white, The bright blessed day, the dark sacred night. And I think to myself. What a wonderful world
Who sang the song It's a wonderful life?   Black    I think you may be thinking of What a Wonderful World which was  made popular by Louis Armstrong. The Elvis song 'It's a Wonderful World' was written by Roy C.  Bennett and Sid Tepper. The song 'What a Wonderful World' was  written by George David Weiss and Bob Thiele. Edit
(What a) Wonderful World redirects here. For the Louis Armstrong song, see What a Wonderful World.  Wonderful World  (occasionally referred to as  (What A) Wonderful World ) is a song by American singer-songwriter Sam Cooke. Released on April 14, 1960 by Keen Records, it had been recorded during an impromptu session the previous year, Cooke's last recording session at Keen Records. He signed with RCA Victor in 1960 and Wonderful World, then unreleased, was issued as a single in competition. The song was mainly composed by songwriting team Lou Adler and Herb Alpert, but Cooke revised the lyrics to mention the subject of education more.
What a Wonderful World  is a song written by Bob Thiele (as George Douglas) and George David Weiss. ABC Records' European distributor EMI forced ABC to issue a What a Wonderful World album in 1968 (catalogue number ABCS-650).
Sam Cooke and later Hermans Hermits did Wonderful World, and its not the same song as the Louis Armstrong songWhat A Wonderful World. Hope that helps you out some. 
What a Wonderful World is a song by Bob Thiele (using the pseudonym George Douglas) and George David Weiss. It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1968, and was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999. Intended as an antidote for the increasingly racially and politically charged climate in the U.S. (and written specifically for Armstrong, who had broad crossover appeal), the song details….
(November 2013).  What a Wonderful World  is a song written by Bob Thiele (as George Douglas) and George David Weiss. It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released in 1967 as a single, which topped the pop charts in the United Kingdom. Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world (Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer). Armstrong's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999. ABC Records' European distributor EMI forced ABC to issue a What a Wonderful World album in 1968 (catalogue number ABCS-650).
read more. What a Wonderful World is a song by Bob Thiele (using the pseudonym George Douglas) and George David Weiss. It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1968, and was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999. Intended as an antidote for the increasingly racially and politically charged climate in the U.S. (and written specifically for Armstrong, who had broad crossover appeal), the song details….