To the untrained eye, a lion-tailed tree may appear to be well groomed. Many tree trimmers who routinely lion-tail trees are unaware of the problems that they cause. Lion-tailing is harmful to trees and it increases susceptibility to wind-failure. Clients may ask for this type of pruning because they’re unaware that the practice is detrimental to their trees. Many of these trees are hundreds of years old and can be seen on private, city, county and community properties. It is a practice of trimming, which we at Santa Ynez Valley Tree Care absolutely avoid. The practice of lion-tailing is like issuing a slow death warrant to a tree.
Of the damage that can be done by improper pruning, topping and lion-tailing are certainly two of the worst things that can be done to tree. Why you shouldn’t top your trees. Topping involves removing the tops of the limbs and leaving huge, ‘stubbed off’ limbs and nothing else. 
Lion-Tail Pruning. Lion tail pruning is more subtle than Topping, but can be just as damaging to the integrity of the tree. This is when all the interior branches are pruned off the limbs leaving only the terminal leaves (like the tuff of the lion's tail.) This has two results. A tree can recover from lion-tailing if the sprouts are allowed to develop into branches and then reduced slightly and spaced along the branch. Often pruning off these interior branches creates splits along the branch and rots begins.
Restoring lions-tailed trees. Treatment: To restore a tree that has been over-thinned or lions-tailed, allow sprouts to develop along the branches for a few years. Your goal is to eventually develop a few sprouts into permanent branches.
Lion's tail pruning is a method of pruning the lower branches from tree limbs, leaving a top tuft of foliage that resembles a lion's tail. Previously advocated by some arborists as a way of increasing a tree's wind resistance, the practice has become controversial. 
Then the tree cutter leaves, and the homeowners are left with a tree that is actually more prone to wind damage. The reason why lions tailing is bad for trees rests in how trees naturally resist wind. A wind-resistant tree has well spaced interior branches that dampens the effect of wind on the branch as it sways, reducing the amount of sway in the branch. The problem is that nothing could be further from the truth. Let me first describe lions tailing. This type of tree pruning involves removing the interior branches of a tree and leaving all the foliage growth at the ends of the branches.
Tissues injured in this manner are often killed or attacked by secondary invaders such as borers, bark beetles and canker-causing pathogens. To the untrained eye, a lion-tailed tree may appear to be well groomed. Many tree trimmers who routinely lion-tail trees are unaware of the problems that they cause. Lion-tailing is harmful to trees and it increases susceptibility to wind-failure. The unassuming homeowner and community member is left to try to fix the problems created by this pruning practice and/or watch a beautiful tree die. My heart drops to the pit of my stomach when I see once healthy trees literally butchered by lion-tailing.
Lions-tailed. This over-lifting or over-thinning is often referred to as lions-tailing. It leaves live branches only at the tips of the canopy. Tremendous numbers of sprouts often result from this type of tree mutilation.
The practice of lion-tailing is like issuing a slow death warrant to a tree. The unassuming homeowner and community member is left to try to fix the problems created by this pruning practice and/or watch a beautiful tree die. My heart drops to the pit of my stomach when I see once healthy trees literally butchered by lion-tailing.
The lowest branch should originate in the lower one-third of the tree. – Colorado State University. ANSI A300 - 4.23 Lion’s tailing: The removal of an excess number of inner and lower lateral branches from parent branches. Lion’s tailing is not an acceptable pruning practice. Generally, no more than 25% of the crown should be removed at once, and less for mature trees. Removing even a single, large-diameter limb can result in significant canopy loss and can create a wound that the tree may not be able to close. Both lions tailing and tree skinning may result in sunburned bark tissue, watersprouts, less photosynthesis, decrease in food production, reduced branch taper, weakened branch structure, and breakage.