The average IQ is 100. Most IQ tests are constructed so that there are no overall score differences between females and males. An intelligence quotient, or IQ, is a score derived from one of several standardized tests designed to assess human intelligence.
Levels of IQ values. Individuals with IQ values above 140 have excellent presumption for creative activity and show direction to others. Almost 3% of the population can reach IQ values within 130 and 140. This IQ value is exceptionally high.
2. IQ Test publishers are using classification labels such as “exceptional” or “average” in order to define the different categories of IQ Scores. There is no consistent practice for labeling IQ levels, nor there is a uniform practice of dividing IQ scores into specific categories or with specific boundary scores.
IQ, or Intelligence Quotient, is a general measurement of an individual's capacity to think and reason. Find out what your IQ level is in 35 minutes. This IQ test was pr … epared by a psychologist and this test will enable you to compare your IQ level with the IQ level of the average population.
But there are some psychological instruments which have different scores to express average IQ levels. Even those tools which agree on the digit of 100 take a standard deviation from 5 to 15 or even 20 points.
An IQ of 115 or more can be considered to be a high IQ score or level. Only 15% of the population have an IQ level of 115 or above. There is no magic bullet but in general it is thought that: 1  An IQ of 110 or above enables you to attain a college level education if you choose it.
The current scoring method for all IQ tests is the deviation IQ. In this method, an IQ score of 100 means that the test-taker's performance on the test is at the median level of performance in the sample of test-takers of about the same age used to norm the test.
On the majority of modern IQ tests, the average IQ Score is set at 100 with a standard deviation of 15 so that IQ scores follow a normal distribution of statistical data. This means that approximately 95% of the world’s population have scores within two standard deviations (SD) of the mean (average IQ score). If one SD is 15 points, as is common in almost all modern tests, then 95% of the population are within a range of 70 to 130, and 98% are below 131.
Last 10 results of this IQ Test : The bell curve (also called a normal curve or normal distribution) is a graph that shows approximately how much of the population falls into each IQ range. In theory, if we tested everyone in the world with a traditional IQ test, most people would score in the  Average range.