The origin of the term is uncertain, but may derive from the proper name Jules or Julien. A potage julienne is composed of carrots, beets, leeks, celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil cut in strips a half-ligne in thickness and about eight or ten lignes in length. Trimmings can be used for stocks, soups, purees, etc. The measurement for julienne is ⅛ x ⅛ x 1 to 2 in (3 mm x 3 mm x 3 to 5 cm). Julienne usually applies to vegetables prepared in this way but it can also be applied to the preparation of meat or fish, especially in stir fry techniques.
Step 3: Hold vegetable. With your non-knife-wielding hand, hold the vegetable firmly on the cutting board close to the area you will cut. Tip. Curl your fingers so that the tips are firmly planted on the vegetable and the knuckles point outward—in the food world, this is called the 'claw grip'.
To Julienne carrots for salad topping or a simple garnish: Begin with a clean, peeled carrot. Slice four sides of the carrot to create a rectangle. Cut carrot lengthwise into approximately 1/8 inch slices. Stack the 1/8 inch slices and, again, cut lengthwise into approximately 1/8-inch strips.
Julienne, or allumette, is a culinary knife cut in which the food item is cut into long thin strips, similar to matchsticks. Sometimes called 'shoe string', e.g. shoestring fries. Common items to be julienned are carrots for carrots julienne, celery for celeris céléris remoulade or potatoes For Julienne. fries Trimmings can be used for stocks, soups, purees, etc. The measurement for julienne is ⅛ x ⅛ x 1 to 2 in (3 mm x 3 mm x 3 to 5 cm). Julienne usually applies to vegetables prepared in this way but it can also be applied to the preparation of meat or fish, especially in stir fry techniques.
If you are looking to add a little color and crunch to your next meal, consider learning how to julienne carrots. This cooking technique originated as a traditional part of French cuisine but has been growing in popularity around the globe as chefs look to incorporate something a little different into their meals. 
Mastering the method of julienne vegetables will not only make your presentation stand out but will also ensure more controlled cooking. Share. Tweet. Pin. Pin. For julienne carrots: Start with a peeled carrot and trim off the top and bottom. Then cut it into 2- to 3-inch lengths. 
Take each of those pieces and slice into thirds, thus creating julienned (matchstick shaped) carrot pieces. Dicing the carrot. To dice the carrot simply gather up 4 or 5 julienned carrot pieces and slice them into small squares. 
• JULIENNE (noun). The noun JULIENNE has 2 senses: 1. a vegetable cut into thin strips (usually used as a garnish). 2. a clear soup garnished with julienne vegetables. Familiarity information: JULIENNE used as a noun is rare. • JULIENNE (verb). The verb JULIENNE has 1 sense: 1. cut into long thin strips. Familiarity information: JULIENNE used as a verb is very rare. 
ju·li·enne. n. Consomme consommé or broth garnished with long thin strips of. vegetables. adj also·ju·li. Enned cut into long thin: strips julienne; potatoes julienned. pork
Trim the ends of the vegetable and the edges to make four straight sides. This makes it easier to produce a uniform cut. Trimmings can be used for stocks, soups, purees, etc. The measurement for julienne is ⅛ x ⅛ x 1 to 2 in (3 mm x 3 mm x 3 to 5 cm). Julienne usually applies to vegetables prepared in this way but it can also be applied to the preparation of meat or fish, especially in stir fry techniques.