The lamina propria contains capillaries and a central lacteal (lymph vessel) in the small intestine, as well as lymphoid tissue. Lamina propria also contains glands with the ducts opening on to the mucosal epithelium, that secrete mucus and serous secretions. The lamina propria is also rich in immune cells known as lymphocytes. A majority of these cells are IgA-secreting B cells.
Lamina propria. The lamina propria is a constituent of the moist linings known as mucous membranes or mucosa, which line various tubes in the body. The lamina propria is a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa. As its Latin name indicates it is a characteristic component of the mucosa, the mucosa's own special layer. The lamina propria contains capillaries and a central lacteal in the small intestine, as well as lymphoid tissue. Lamina propria also contains glands with the ducts opening on to the mucosal epithelium, that secrete mucus and serous secretions. The lamina propria is also rich in immune cells known as lymphocytes.
reticular lamina a layer of the basement membrane, adjacent to the connective tissue, seen in some epithelia; it is of variable thickness and is composed of condensed connective tissue with a reticulum of collagen fibers. 1. a thin, flat plate or stratum of a composite structure; called also layer. 2. vertebral lamina. basal lamina (lamina basa´lis) the layer of the basement membrane lying next to the basal surface of the adjoining cell layer composed of an electron-dense lamina densa and an electron-lucent lamina lucida.
The lamina propria (more correctly lamina propria mucosae) mucosæ is a thin layer of loose connective, tissue or dense irregular connective, tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the. mucosa Lamina propria also contains glands with the ducts opening on to the mucosal epithelium, that secrete mucus and serous secretions. The lamina propria is also rich in immune cells known as lymphocytes. A majority of these cells are IgA-secreting B cells.
The lamina propria is a constituent of the moist linings known as mucous membranes or mucosa, which line various tubes in the body (such as the respiratory tract, the gastrointestinal tract, and the urogenital tract). Lamina propria also contains glands with the ducts opening on to the mucosal epithelium, that secrete mucus and serous secretions. The lamina propria is also rich in immune cells known as lymphocytes. A majority of these cells are IgA-secreting B cells.
As its Latin name indicates it is a characteristic component of the mucosa, the mucosa's own special layer. Thus the term mucosa or mucous membrane always refers to the combination of the epithelium plus the lamina propria. Lamina propria also contains glands with the ducts opening on to the mucosal epithelium, that secrete mucus and serous secretions. The lamina propria is also rich in immune cells known as lymphocytes. A majority of these cells are IgA-secreting B cells.
Medical Definition of LAMINA PROPRIA. : a highly vascular layer of connective tissue under the basement membrane lining a layer of epithelium. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, literally, proper lamina
Video shows what lamina propria means. A layer or connective tissue under the epithelium of a mucous membrane. Lamina propria Meaning. How to pronounce, definition audio dictionary. How to say lamina propria. Powered by MaryTTS, Wiktionary. 1  Education. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
The lamina propria of colonic mucosa normally contains eosinophils, lymphocytes, plasma cells, and a few neutrophils. If the number of such cells is judged to be increased, colonic inflammation is said to be present. However, the number of cells present in normal mucosa has not been clearly established. Quantification of colonic lamina propria cells by means of a morphometric point-counting method. Lee E(1), Schiller LR, Fordtran JS. Author information: (1)Department of Internal Medicine, Baylor University Medical Center, Dallas, Texas.