Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Zita means-the seeker. Other origins for the name Zita include-Spanish, English.The name Zita is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-the seeker. Origin-Spain. Alternate Origins-English
In addition, Zita is a diminutive form of the Hungarian name Felicitas felicitás as well as A hungarian form of The english Name. Felicity zita is also An english And spanish form of The english And french Name. rose Zita has 13 forms that are used in English and other languages. English forms include Zeata, Zeatah, Zeeta, Zeetah, Zeita, Zeitah, Zeta (used in German and Italian as well), Zieta, Zietah, Zitah, Zytah, and Zytka. A form of Zita used in other languages is the Polish Zyta. Zita is rare as a baby name for girls.
Zita is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2237 out of 4276, Top 52%) and an even more popular surname for all people (#68569 out of 150436, Top 46%). Similar Names. Zita is pronounced similarly to Zeta and Zetta ▼ . Other suggested similar baby names are Dita, Gita, Lita, Nita ▼ , Rita ▼ , Tita, Vita, Zada ▼ , Zaida, Zia, Zila, Zina and Ziva. These names tend to be less frequently used than Zita.
[ 2 syll. zi-ta, zit-a ] The baby girl name Zita is pronounced as S IY-Taa-or Z IY-Taa- †. Zita is a Hungarian, English, Spanish, German, and Italian name of Latin, Old Greek, and Italian origin. Italian origin, English, German, and Italian use: The name is from the Tuscan dialect element 'zita'. Zita has 13 forms that are used in English and other languages. English forms include Zeata, Zeatah, Zeeta, Zeetah, Zeita, Zeitah, Zeta (used in German and Italian as well), Zieta, Zietah, Zitah, Zytah, and Zytka. A form of Zita used in other languages is the Polish Zyta. Zita is rare as a baby name for girls.
Means little girl in Tuscan Italian. This was the name of a 13th-century saint, the patron saint of servants. 
The name Zita is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Zita is: Reaper. American Meaning: The name Zita is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zita is: Reaper. English Meaning: The name Zita is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Zita is: St. Zita was a 13th century patron saint of domestic servants. Spanish Meaning: The name Zita is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Zita is: Little hope. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 2. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
Zita is also an English form of the English and German name Theresa. Zita has 13 forms that are used in English and other languages. English forms include Zeata, Zeatah, Zeeta, Zeetah, Zeita, Zeitah, Zeta (used in German and Italian as well), Zieta, Zietah, Zitah, Zytah, and Zytka. A form of Zita used in other languages is the Polish Zyta. Zita is rare as a baby name for girls.
In addition, Zita is a diminutive form of the Hungarian name Felicitas felicitás as well as A hungarian form of The english Name. Felicity zita is also An english And spanish form of The english And french Name. Rose zita is also An english form of The english And german Name. theresa Zita has 13 forms that are used in English and other languages. English forms include Zeata, Zeatah, Zeeta, Zeetah, Zeita, Zeitah, Zeta (used in German and Italian as well), Zieta, Zietah, Zitah, Zytah, and Zytka. A form of Zita used in other languages is the Polish Zyta. Zita is rare as a baby name for girls.
Zita is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Zi-ta. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6165 in baby name popularity for girls with 21 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Zita in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Zita in Nautical Flags page.
Zita /zi-ta/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ZEE-tah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Zita is seeker. A saint's name; also a short form of Rosita and Teresita. The name of the last Hapsburg empress. Similar Names. Zita is pronounced similarly to Zeta and Zetta ▼ . Other suggested similar baby names are Dita, Gita, Lita, Nita ▼ , Rita ▼ , Tita, Vita, Zada ▼ , Zaida, Zia, Zila, Zina and Ziva. These names tend to be less frequently used than Zita.