A pessary is a rubber device that fits into your vagina to help support your uterus (womb), vagina, bladder, or rectum. The pessary is most often used to treat prolapse of the uterus. Prolapse refers to when the uterus drops or “falls out” because it loses support after childbirth or pelvic surgery. The problem can usually be fixed through surgery, but it is also possible to treat prolapse with a pessary. 
A therapeutic pessary is a medical device similar to the outer ring of a diaphragm. Therapeutic pessaries are used to support the uterus, vagina, bladder, or rectum. Pessaries are a treatment option for pelvic organ prolapse. A pessary is most commonly used to treat prolapse of the uterus. It is also used to treat stress urinary incontinence, a retroverted uterus, cystocele and rectocele. Historically, pessaries may have been used to perform abortions.
Guide. A vaginal pessary is a removable device placed into the vagina. It is designed to support areas of pelvic organ prolapse. A variety of pessaries are available, including the inflatable, doughnut, and Gellhorn. Your doctor will fit your pessary to hold the pelvic organs in position without causing discomfort. A vaginal pessary is a removable device placed into the vagina. It is designed to support areas of pelvic organ prolapse. A variety of pessaries are available, including the inflatable, doughnut, and Gellhorn
Prolapse of the uterus is usually fixed with surgery, but you can also use a vaginal pessary to help keep the uterus in place. A pessary can help if you have a cystocele (when your bladder droops down into your vagina) or if you have a rectocele (when the wall of your rectum bulges into the bottom of your vagina). The pessary is most often used for prolapse of the uterus. Prolapse means that your uterus droops or sags into the vaginal canal because the muscles and ligaments that should support it are weak.
A pessary is a plastic device that fits into your vagina to help support your uterus (womb), vagina, bladder or rectum. The pessary is most often used for “prolapse” of the uterus. Prolapse means that your uterus droops or tends to “fall out” because it loses support after you give birth or have pelvic surgery. This problem is usually fixed with surgery, but you can also use a pessary to help keep the uterus in place
Pessary. A pessary is a soft, flexible device that is placed in the vagina to help support the bladder, vagina, uterus, and/or rectum. Pessaries are made in many different shapes and sizes. A pessary is a non-surgical way to treat pelvic organ prolapse and sometimes incontinence
The pessary is an effective tool in the management of a number of gynecologic problems. The pessary is most commonly used in the management of pelvic support defects such as cystocele and rectocele. Pessaries can also be used in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence. The wide variety of pessary styles may cause confusion for physicians during the initial selection of the pessary.