Freon is a coolant/refrigerant used in A/C's or refrigerators to cool the air. It is illegal in some states so check before use. California mandates R-134a as a alternative. You smell this because ozone is created when lightning interacts with … oxygen.    After a short period of time, your nose will become acclimated to the presence of ozone, and you will not notice it, unless the concentration increases.
Freon R134 is a gas used to charge A/C units. It does not have a smell or color. ...Actually the proper name is not FREON® which is a DuPont trademark brand of HCFC based refrigerants, like FREON® 22. The actual R-134a DuPont Brand name is Suva® 134a... and R-134a DOES have an odour, it is a difficult to detect, sweet, ether-like odour
Freon is a refrigerant used for most home heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) units in America. While only a brand name of DuPont, the name “freon” often represents all HCFC refrigerants. The makeup of freon includes hydrogen, carbon, fluorine, and chlorine, or HCFC (hydro chlorofluorocarbons). HCFC was created to take the place of a refrigerant containing carbon, fluorine, and chlorine, or CFC (chlorofluorocarbons). It was argued that HCFC was safer than CFC because HCFC is nonflammable, nontoxic, noncorrosive, and odorless.
The freon itself is odorless, although the oil in the system does have an odor. You smell this because ozone is created when lightning interacts with … oxygen.    After a short period of time, your nose will become acclimated to the presence of ozone, and you will not notice it, unless the concentration increases.
Freon represents several different chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, which are used in commerce and industry. The CFCs are a group of aliphatic organic compounds containing the elements carbon and fluorine, and, in many cases, other halogens (especially chlorine) and hydrogen. 
A system that is only 10% low in coolant will not operate efficiently and can cost over 20% more on your monthly utility bills. Continued operation of your HVAC units with low coolant can damage your compressor. Freon is 4 times heavier than air and sinks to the ground/floor initially when a leak occurs. Freon gas leaks can ocurr at the outdoor compressor or indoors as the Freon liquid is pumped into the AC unit. is dependent upon the amount of Freon in the system and the space/size of the area where the
Dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12) is a colorless gas usually sold under the brand name Freon-12, and a chlorofluorocarbon halomethane (CFC) used as a refrigerant and aerosol spray propellant. 
is a trade name for a class of chemicals (known as Chlorofluorocarbons or CFC's) used as a refrigerant in air conditioning systems. Freon is a gas at room temperature and a liquid when cooled or compressed. Freon gas is colorless, non-flammable and relatively odorless. Some Freons have an ether-like odor. Freon gas leaks can ocurr at the outdoor compressor or indoors as the Freon liquid is pumped into the AC unit. is dependent upon the amount of Freon in the system and the space/size of the area where the leak occurs.
Refrigerant poisoning happens when someone is exposed to the chemicals used to cool appliances such as refrigerators and air conditioners. Refrigerant contains chemicals called fluorinated hydrocarbons (often referred to by a common brand name, “Freon”). Freon is a tasteless, mostly odorless gas. When it is deeply inhaled, may cut off vital oxygen to your lungs and cells. Limited exposure—for example, a spill on your skin or breathing near an open container—is only mildly harmful. However, care should be taken to avoid contact with these types of chemicals. 