Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: 1) In chemistry, a compound is a substance that results from a combination of two or more different chemical element s, in such a way that the atom s of the different elements are held together by chemical bonds that are difficult to break. 
com·pound. Noun. Chemistry A substance made up of two or more elements joined by chemical bonds into a molecule. The elements are combined in a definite ratio. Water, for example, is a compound having two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom in each molecule. Adjective. Composed of more than one part, as a compound eye or leaf. 
Compounds A compound is made up of two or more types of elements (e.g. water and carbon dioxide) that are chemically combined in a set ratio. They cannot be broken down into … two or more simpler substances by physical means, only by chemical means. Properties of compounds differ from those of their elements. They are written in a formula. A compound is a pure substance made up of 2 or more chemically combined elements. that are combined, and combine a lot. they are also together so that means that they are combined.
Compound. Definition. noun, plural: compounds. (general) A material made up of two or more parts or elements. (chemistry) A substance consisting of atoms or ions of two or more elements that are chemically bonded together, e.g. carbon dioxide, a substance consisting of carbon and two oxygen atoms. adjective. (zoology) Consisting of distinct individuals that are connected forming a colony, such as a coral.
A chemical element bonded to an identical chemical element is not a chemical compound since only one element, not two different elements, is involved. Examples are the diatomic molecule hydrogen (H 2) and the polyatomic molecule sulfur (S 8). Characteristic properties of compounds include that elements in a compound are present in a definite proportion. For example, the molecule of the compound water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen in a ratio of 2:1.water.
A compound is a substance that has two or more chemical elements whose atoms are bonded together. These atoms are chemically bonded in specific ways and in detailed proportions, and the substances cannot be readily separated through simple physical means. 
A compound is a substance made from two or more elements that have reacted chemically with each other. Remember this definition as you might need it in the exam! A compound is a completely new material that will often have totally different properties from the elements that made it. 
Compounds are a type of substance. They are made up of two or more elements that are chemically bonded. They are written in a formula. A compound is a pure substance made up of 2 or more chemically combined elements. that are combined, and combine a lot. they are also together so that means that they are combined.
A compound is a substance formed when two or more chemical elements are chemically bonded together. Two types of chemical bonds common in compounds are covalent bonds and ionic bonds. The elements in any compound are always present in fixed ratios. Example 1: Pure water is a compound made from two elements-hydrogen and oxygen. The ratio of hydrogen to oxygen in water is always 2:1. Each molecule of water contains two hydrogen atoms bonded to a single oxygen atom. Example 2: Pure table salt is a compound made from two elements-sodium and chlorine.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Compound Definition: A compound is a chemical species that is formed when two or more atoms join together chemically, with covalent or ionic bonds. Also Known As: molecule, though sometimes distinctions are made between the types of bonds in molecules (covalent) and compounds (ionic)