Among nuts, the case may be made that walnuts are king, as research shows they may boost your health in a number of ways at very easy-to-achieve doses.. Eating just one ounce of walnuts a day (that's about seven shelled walnuts) may be all it takes to take advantage of their beneficial properties. One-quarter cup of walnuts, for instance, provides more than 100 percent of the daily recommended value of plant-based omega-3 fats, along with high amounts of copper, manganese, molybdenum, and biotin. Some of the most exciting research about walnuts includes:
They are a part of the tree nut family along with brazil nuts, cashews, hazelnuts, macadamia nuts, pecans, pine nuts, and pistachios. Only one ounce of any of these nuts per day is the minimal amount needed to gain statistically significant health benefits! However, walnuts contain the highest antioxidant content of all the tree nuts, setting them apart from the rest. One ounce of walnuts is about seven whole nuts or 14 halves so eat up! 
1 One-quarter cup of walnuts, for instance, provides more than 100 percent of the daily recommended value of plant-based omega-3 fats, along with high amounts of copper, manganese, molybdenum, and biotin. 2  Walnuts may help reduce not only the risk of prostate cancer, but breast cancer as well. One-quarter cup of walnuts, for instance, provides more than 100 percent of the daily recommended value of plant-based omega-3 fats, along with high amounts of copper, manganese, molybdenum, and biotin. Some of the most exciting research about walnuts includes:
[3]. 6# Boosts your sperm quality: Eating 2.5 ounces of walnuts per day improves semen quality in healthy young men, researchers say. According to a study by UCLA researchers, eating 75 grams of walnuts a day improves the vitality, motility, and morphology of sperm in healthy men aged 21 to 35 [4]. Here are 8 easy ways to boost your sperm quality and count
If you're eating between 1,800 -2,000 calories per day, approximately 14-15 grams of saturated fat would be a reasonable daily amount. One important final note: all of our nutrient analyses in the recommendations above are based on raw nuts and seeds. When it first authorized a health claim for nuts in 2003, the FDA actually set a limit on the amount of saturated fat that a nut could contain and still qualify for a health claim. That level was 4 grams of saturated fat per 50 grams of nuts.
1 A recent study has determined that only 5.5% of all adults (ages 19-50) consume tree nuts of any kind! 2  This small percentage of people actually do a pretty good job of integrating tree nuts (including walnuts) into their diet, and average about 1.25 ounces of tree nuts per day. In an everyday diet that provided 2,000 calories and 30% of those calories from fat, this 50% standard for walnuts would mean about 67 grams of fat from walnuts or 4 ounces of this tree nut on a daily basis.
1 Researchers are convinced—more than ever before—about the nutritional benefits of walnuts when consumed in whole form, including the skin. 2  We now know that approximately 90% of the phenols in walnuts are found in the skin, including key phenolic acids, tannins, and flavonoids. In an everyday diet that provided 2,000 calories and 30% of those calories from fat, this 50% standard for walnuts would mean about 67 grams of fat from walnuts or 4 ounces of this tree nut on a daily basis.
Therefore, instead of just adding walnuts to your current diet, eat them in replacement of foods that are high in saturated fats (such as cheese and meat) and limit your intake of these tasty treats to the recommended 1.5 oz per day. That is about 20 walnut halves. Walnuts add a flavorful crunch to dishes. A study published in Diabetes Care in 2010 found that 2 ounces of walnuts per day improve blood flow in people with type 2 diabetes. A previous study also found that a diet supplemented with walnuts help type 2 diabetes patients lower their LDL cholesterol by 10%.
A recommended daily serving of walnuts is one ounce, which equals about one quarter cup or 12-14 walnut halves. That serving provides a host of nutrients: 2.5 grams of ALA, the plant-based source of omega-3 fatty acid, 1  a top source of antioxidants (13.126 mmol). 2  4 grams of protein, 3  2 grams of fiber, 