My mom has been in a hospice facility since december 6th. She has struggled with cancer for the last 16 months and she has steadly declined. Her last diagnoses was carcinomatosis which they gave her six months to live. We are at six weeks. what I know. The hospice literature we have says 8 days after no food, 5 days after no water, with caveats for up to 5 days of actively dying. Then again, so much depends on the cancer and which organs are affected. My mother is actively dying from ovarian mets to soft tissues, organs and lungs, and her lymph nodes are shot
It`s depend on person`s health and age.. 25 year person live 4 to 6 week without food and 75 year old person live 1 to 2 week without eating food... If you want to get health supplements with discount rates for live healthy then visit.. http://www.dealsland.com.au/stores/amino-z-sports-supplements-coupon-code/ .
1 79% - How long do elders last once they stop eating and drinking? 2  62% - How long can you live not eating or drinking hospice? 3  72% - How long will a pet live if it stops eating drinking? 4  72% - How long to live after stopping eating and drinking? 25 year person live 4 to 6 week without food and 75 year old person live 1 to 2 week without eating food... If you want to get health supplements with discount rates for live healthy then visit.. http://www.dealsland.com.au/stores/amino-z-sports-supplements-coupon-code/ .
Our Hospice nurses told me that people usually die about two weeks after they stop eating and that not wanting to eat shows that the body is shutting down and metabolism is changing. They said not to urge him (my husband) to eat but to offer light food and liquids only if he wants them. Unfortunatey my Mom is dying from pancreatic cancer. She was diagnosed 7-17-10. She stopped eating 19 days ago. Hospice comes everyday...and for the last 7 days they prepared me for her to pass in 24 hours. Her BP is 140/60, still has urine output and daily BM's. She is strong like Mule...but i have to admit i am sooooo tired
Best Answer: Hospice is for patients who have 6 months or less to live. The hospice people are very kind and understanding, also gentle. They are there to keep the patient comfortable and pain free,not to extend their life. They will do everything in their power to help and make them comfortable. 
This refers to the decision by a patient to stop eating food and drinking liquids when they have a terminal or life-limiting disease, so that their death can be hastened (and therefore their dying will not be prolonged). Why would someone stop eating and drinking? We know that up to 35% of patients in hospice programs have severe pain in the final week of life and 25% describe having shortness of breath that is “unbearable”.
Hello, when a person is alive and well, they will want and need to take in water and food. ... read more. It`s depend on person`s health and age.. 25 year person live 4 to 6 week without food and ... 25 year person live 4 to 6 week without food and 75 year old person live 1 to 2 week without eating food... If you want to get health supplements with discount rates for live healthy then visit.. http://www.dealsland.com.au/stores/amino-z-sports-supplements-coupon-code/ .
This must be a very intense time for you. The length of time someone can live without eating depends on their weight (or amount of body fat), health, and, many See also: After losing the ability to swallow, how long can my mom last? believe, attitude. Medical experts usually say the average person can live for 4 to 6 weeks without food. The amount of time someone can go without water is much shorter, roughly a week (or less). 