The iron from the hemoglobin in the blood serves as a catalyst for the chemiluminescence reaction that causes luminol to glow, so a blue glow is produced when the solution is sprayed where there is blood.
1 Recognize the chemiluminescence is a process by which the energy of a chemical reaction is converted to light energy. 2  Describe how exothermic reactions can produce light instead of heat. 3  Use the following skills: observing, recording data, and making inferences.
The glow that results is due to a natural property of luminol called chemiluminescence. Chemiluminescence is the emission of light that results from a chemical reaction that does not involve the production of heat or a flame. During the reaction, the reactants (in this case luminol and hydrogen peroxide) react with the iron from the blood.
Luminol is a substance that has a blue or green glow when it comes in contact with blood, certain metals, or other oxidizing agents. It is made from hydrazine and hydrogen peroxide and exhibits chemiluminescence, the process by which light is emitted from a chemical reaction.
Luminol is a chemical that produces a beautiful blue fluorescence when oxidized by hydrogen peroxide. In addition to providing one of the best-known examples of chemiluminescence, it is also a valuable crime scene investigation tool whose blue glow reveals the presence of blood.
1 In a clear test tube or cup, mix 10 ml of the luminol solution and 10 ml of the peroxide solution. 2  You can activate the glow either by adding ~0.1 g of potassium ferricyanide to the solution or with a drop of blood.
So, for instance, the luminol glow can be used to determine hydrogen peroxide concentrations, or to detect the presence of other compounds that could react with the necessary catalyst and prevent it triggering the reaction. But there is no doubt that luminol and blood make for an excellent partnership.
The luminol chemiluminescence reaction is responsible for the glow of lightsticks. The reaction is used by criminalists to detect traces of blood at crime scenes.