In second person, the narrator addresses the protagonist as you.. Often, this kind of story has the narrator speaking to a younger version of their self. This point of view is very rare because it is extremely difficult to pull off. Just because a narrator sounds like they know it all, doesn't mean they do. This may be why the first person point of view has become more and more popular -- it can be harder to get the reader to identify with a nameless, third person teller.
Holes is a 1998 young adult mystery comedy novel written by Louis Sachar and first published by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. 1 Stanley Yelnats IV: Stanley is the unlikely hero of Holes. 2  Stanley is an overweight 14-year-old boy who does not have any friends from school and is often picked on by his classmates and the school bully.
Let's take an example: early on, when the narrator tells us about Stanley's life before Camp Green Lake, the narrator doesn't provide us with much info. He doesn't say that Stanley was as lonely as a cloud. He doesn't even say that Stanley leads a lonely life. 
POINT OF VIEW. Stanley s story is told by an omniscient narrator that is able to move back and forth between the events at Camp Green Lake, the story of Elya Yelnats in Latvia, and the stories of pre-drought Green Lake. The combination of stories creates the feeling that fate is at work, molding Stanley s destiny. Names have significance in Holes, the title itself describing many features of the novel. The boys dig holes at Camp Green Lake, there is a hole in Stanley s life before Camp Green Lake, and there are holes in the story that the reader must fill in as the plot develops.
As Stanley continues to dig holes and meet the other boys at the camp, the narrator intertwines three separate stories to reveal why Stanley's family has a curse and what the Warden is looking for. Stanley Yelnats, a boy who has bad luck due to a curse placed on his great-great-grandfather, is sent to Camp Green Lake, a juvenile detention camp, for a crime he did not commit. Stanley and the other boys at the camp are forced to dig large holes in the dirt every day
setting (place) · Most of the story takes place on Green Lake, in Texas. This place is described as it was in the late 19th and late 20th cenuries. 
Sometimes this takes the form of second-person voice: as in, you don't want to be bitten by a yellow-spotted lizard (1.12). Other times, he just talks about us as the reader: as in, the reader probably still has some questions (50.3). The most stand-out instance of this comes after Sam's death, where we find the following passage: That all happened one hundred and ten years ago. But Wait, There's More. It doesn't end there, folks. At certain points in the story – at the very beginning, when Sam is murdered, and in the last chapter, to name a few – the narrator's view becomes much less limited. It's almost as if he's suddenly looking down from a great height, able to travel across large stretches of time and zero in on tiny details all at once