Unfortunately, the best course of action for plants affected by crown gall is to remove and destroy the infected plant. The bacteria can persist in the soil for two years after the plant is gone, so avoid planting any other susceptible plants in the area until the bacteria dies out for lack of a host plant. Over 600 different plants are affected by crown gall, including these common landscape plants: 1  Fruit trees, particularly apples and members of the Prunus family, which includes cherries and plums. 2  Roses and members of the rose family. 3  Raspberries and blackberries. 4  Willow trees
Crown gall on euonymus (Euonymus). Crown gall is a plant disease caused by the soil-inhabiting bacterium, Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The bacterium causes abnormal growths or galls on roots, twigs, and branches of euonymus and other shrubs primarily in the rose family.
Crown gall can affect a wide range of crops, including woody ornamentals, tree fruits and small fruits. Some vegetable and herbaceous ornamentals are also susceptible but these crops are less commonly affected. Symptoms Galls are usually restricted to the roots, lower stems and lower branches of infected plants. In some cases, however, crown gall may occur in the upper branches. 
What is a crown gall? Crown gall is the most widely distributed bacterial disease of plants in the world, affecting over 100 species of fruit crops, and woody and herbaceous ornamentals, including rose, euonymus, lilac, poplar, viburnum, willow, apple, pear, brambles, stone fruits and grapes.
In Minnesota, the most commonly affected woody plants are roses (Rosa spp. ), willow (Salix spp. ), poplar (Populus spp. ) and fruit trees like apple (Malus spp. ), cherry, plum or apricot (Prunus spp. ). All of these plants are highly susceptible to crown gall. Crown gall is caused by the bacterium, Agrobacterium tumefaciens. This pathogen is found on more than 600 different species of plants worldwide including many common vegetables, weeds, deciduous and evergreen trees and shrubs.
Crown gall is identified by overgrowths appearing as galls on roots and at the base or crown of woody plants such as pome (e.g., apple, pear) and stone (e.g., cherry, apricot) fruit and nut (e.g., almond, walnut) trees (Figure 1). 
Sanitation and prevention of wounding must be used to prevent infections of aboveground plant tissue. Many ornamentals and other plants, including fruit trees and brambles, are affected by crown gall, a disease vectored by the bacterium Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Although the crown gall bacterium has a wide host range, many plants are immune to the disease and can be planted in sites with a history of crown gall. A list of species resistant or immune to the disease is provided in Table 1.
Galls can interfere with the plant’s ability to move water and nutrients through the stem, which may result in stunting or decline of the plant. Crown gall can infect nearly all dicotyledonous plants, and is most common in euonymus, Prunus spp., brambles, rose, willow, and grapes. Crown Gall. Crown gall causes round galls to form on stems or roots, often near the soil line of the plant. Galls may vary from the size of peas to over an inch in diameter. When young, the galls can be white or cream colored and spongy or wart-like; as they age, they become dark and woody