The series of means, like the series of observations in each sample, has a standard deviation. The standard error of the mean of one sample is an estimate of the standard deviation that would be obtained from the means of a large number of samples drawn from that population. As noted above, if random samples are drawn from a population, their means will vary from one to another. 
The standard deviation of the sample mean is $\sigma/\sqrt{n}$ where $\sigma$ is the (population) standard deviation of the data and $n$ is the sample size-this may be what you're referring to. So, if it is the standard error of the sample mean you're referring to then, yes, that formula is appropriate. 
Percentage Error: show the error as a percent of the exact value ... so divide by the exact value and make it a percentage: 65/325 = 0.2 = 20%. Percentage Error is all about comparing a guess or estimate to an exact value. See percentage change, difference and error for other options. 
Sample Size Calculator Help What does it do? The sample size calculator allows you to calculate the required responding sample size, standard error, RSE, and a confidence interval (95% or 99%) for a proportion estimate, using just one of these criteria as an input. This is the standard error expressed as a percentage of the estimate. The RSE is a useful measure of accuracy, as it gives an indication of the percentage errors likely to have occurred due to sampling. For example, if the proportion is 0.5 and the standard error is 0.05 then the RSE will be 10%.
7.7.7.2 Obtaining standard errors from confidence intervals and P values: absolute (difference) measures. If a 95% confidence interval is available for an absolute measure of intervention effect (e.g. SMD, risk difference, rate difference), then the standard error can be calculated as. For 90% confidence intervals divide by 3.29 rather than 3.92; for 99% confidence intervals divide by 5.15. Where exact P values are quoted alongside estimates of intervention effect, it is possible to estimate standard errors.
The standard error (SE) is the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of a statistic, most commonly of the mean. The term may also be used to refer to an estimate of that standard deviation, derived from a particular sample used to compute the estimate. If the population standard deviation is finite, the standard error of the sample will tend to zero with increasing sample size, because the estimate of the population mean will improve, while the standard deviation of the sample will tend to the population standard deviation as the sample size increases.
As an example of the use of the relative standard error, consider two surveys of household income that both result in a sample mean of $50,000. If one survey has a standard error of $10,000 and the other has a standard error of $5,000, then the relative standard errors are 20% and 10% respectively. If the population standard deviation is finite, the standard error of the sample will tend to zero with increasing sample size, because the estimate of the population mean will improve, while the standard deviation of the sample will tend to the population standard deviation as the sample size increases.
Put simply, the standard error of the sample is an estimate of how far the sample mean is likely to be from the population mean, whereas the standard deviation of the sample is the degree to which individuals within the sample differ from the sample mean. If the population standard deviation is finite, the standard error of the sample will tend to zero with increasing sample size, because the estimate of the population mean will improve, while the standard deviation of the sample will tend to the population standard deviation as the sample size increases.
The standard error of the mean (SEM) is the standard deviation of the sample-mean's estimate of a population mean. If the population standard deviation is finite, the standard error of the sample will tend to zero with increasing sample size, because the estimate of the population mean will improve, while the standard deviation of the sample will tend to the population standard deviation as the sample size increases.