Climate for New Orleans, Louisiana. New Orleans's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 43.4°F. In July, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 91.1°F. The driest month in New Orleans is October with 3.05 inches of precipitation, and with 6.83 inches June is the wettest month.
While temperatures of over 100 degrees Fahrenheit are not normal for New Orleans, the city commonly climbs into the 90s from June to September. Most summer nights are also hot, with the thermometer remaining above 70 degrees. Warm weather extends consistently from April to October in New Orleans. Cold weather doesn't occur frequently in New Orleans. The southern city averages just six nights a year when the temperature drops to freezing. Weather that chilly is confined to December, January and February. But any overnight frost always thaws during the day.
To find out how often it rises over 70, 80 or 90 °F each month in New Orleans, scroll down farther. There are also monthly and yearly counts of nights with warm temperatures days and details on how often it gets cold in New Orleans. All the numbers are averages, based on climate data gathered from 1981 to 2010. Cold weather doesn't occur frequently in New Orleans. The southern city averages just six nights a year when the temperature drops to freezing. Weather that chilly is confined to December, January and February. But any overnight frost always thaws during the day.
New Orleans: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in New Orleans with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 13°C (55°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in June. The wettest month is July with an average of 168mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in July when the average sea temperature is 30°C (86°F).
Average temperature is the most popular factor that people take into consideration when looking for the best city to live in. CityRating.com offers the average New Orleans temperature chart that displays the annual and monthly temperatures for New Orleans and dozens of other cities. Average temperature of New Orleans including average monthly and annual data.
Average Temperatures for New Orleans. New Orleans's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 43.4°F. In July, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 91.1°F. The driest month in New Orleans is October with 3.05 inches of precipitation, and with 6.83 inches June is the wettest month.
New Orleans Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in New Orleans, Louisiana during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below, monthly and annually for New Orleans, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Cold weather doesn't occur frequently in New Orleans. The southern city averages just six nights a year when the temperature drops to freezing. Weather that chilly is confined to December, January and February. But any overnight frost always thaws during the day.
Averages for New Orleans in October. sees temperatures begin to decline although it is still very warm and dry. T he average temperature still hits a high of around 26 C (that's about 79°F) during the day and evenings are still as warm as 18°C (about 64°F) . Read more. There are around still around 8 hours of average daily sunshine. October is a great time to visit New Orleans as it is slightly quieter than in the summer, and the milder temperatures mean it is not so overwhelming. It would be best to bring an umbrella or waterproof mac in case of showers.
October is the dryest month of the year in New Orleans but you can still expect rain on 7 days, with the average monthly rainfall being around 89mm. There are around still around 8 hours of average daily sunshine. October is a great time to visit New Orleans as it is slightly quieter than in the summer, and the milder temperatures mean it is not so overwhelming. It would be best to bring an umbrella or waterproof mac in case of showers.
July is the hottest month in New Orleans with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 13°C (55°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in June. The wettest month is July with an average of 168mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in July when the average sea temperature is 30°C (86°F).