In most cases of Bell's palsy, the nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face is damaged by inflammation. Many health problems can cause weakness or paralysis of the face. If a specific reason cannot be found for the weakness, the condition is called Bell's palsy.
Bell's palsy is a paralysis or weakness of the muscles on one side of your face. Damage to the facial nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face causes that side of your face to droop. The nerve damage may also affect your sense of taste and how you make tears and saliva.
Paralysis on one side of the face is common when the facial nerve is damaged. Facial paralysis on both sides of the face can be more difficult to recognize, but affected animals often drool and have a dull facial expression. In total facial paralysis, the animal cannot move its eyelids, ears, lips, or nostrils.
From Ears to Mouth: Symptoms. The symptoms of idiopathic facial nerve paralysis vary with the extent of nerve damage. They can occur on one or both sides of the face, and they can be permanent or temporary. In a dog whose that normally stand up, one ear may flop down.
Bell's palsy is a paralysis of cranial nerve VII (the facial nerve) resulting in inability to control facial muscles on the affected side. Several conditions can cause a facia … l paralysis, e.g., brain tumor, stroke, and Lyme disease.
Dogs can sustain damage to their facial muscles, similar to Bell's Palsy in humans. This is referred to as canine idiopathic facial nerve paralysis.
Bell's Palsy in Canines. Older cocker spaniels have a higher risk of facial paralysis. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. If your dog’s normally perky face suddenly droops on one side, he has sustained some damage to the facial nerve that controls his facial muscles. When the cause is unknown, the condition in dogs is referred to as idiopathic facial nerve paralysis. The condition is similar to what is known as Bell’s palsy in humans.
This nerve comes from the back of the brain to control the muscles of facial expression (ears, lips, eyelids and nostril). The most common cause of facial nerve paralysis in dogs is idiopathic facial nerve paralysis. The term idiopathic means that there is no known cause.
What causes facial paralysis in dogs? Sudden development of facial paralysis is a common presentation of stroke in man. However, in most cases, facial paralysis in dogs is not associated with disease of the brain, but rather with direct damage to the nerve that controls the muscles in the face (facial nerve).