-. was paid salary for 15 months and 1 month’s salary in lieu of notice (that is, the employment was terminated immediately and no notice period was given to the employee). The salary for 15 months and the 1 month's payment in lieu of notice are taxable. After working for 21 years and 3 months. -. was paid, apart from the normal monthly salary due, 6 months’ salary in lieu of notice in accordance with the employee’s terms of employment. The 6 months’ salary in lieu of notice is taxable. More information on payment in lieu of notice and how such payment is taxable is available through the following link.
PILON can either be set out in the contract as an option for the employer or it may simply be paid to cover any potential damages for breach of contract. If there is a pay in lieu of notice clause in the employee's contract, the amount the employee will get will normally be set out there. If not, it is up to the employee to agree to an amoun
After working for 1 month. -. was paid 1 month’s salary and 7 days’ salary in lieu of notice (that is, the employment was terminated immediately and no notice period was given to the employee). Salary for 1 month and the 7 days’ payment in lieu of notice are taxable. -. was paid, apart from the normal monthly salary due, 6 months’ salary in lieu of notice in accordance with the employee’s terms of employment. The 6 months’ salary in lieu of notice is taxable. More information on payment in lieu of notice and how such payment is taxable is available through the following link.
In employment law, payment in lieu of notice or PILON is a payment made to an employee, by the employer, for a notice period that they have been told, by the employer, that they do not have to work. If there is a pay in lieu of notice clause in the employee's contract, the amount the employee will get will normally be set out there.
For example, the employment contract could state that any payment in lieu of notice will be limited to basic salary only or could exclude the employee from receiving a bonus during the notice period. The employer should check the exact terms of the contract when calculating the payment. 
Payment in lieu of notice. Payment in lieu of notice is money paid to you by your employer as an alternative to being given your full notice. This means that your contract can be ended without any notice. You must get all of the basic pay you would have received during the notice period. You may get extras such as pension contributions or private health care insurance if they’re in your contract. To do this you must have a payment in lieu of notice clause in your employment contract. If it’s not in your contract and you’re paid in lieu you must receive full basic pay, plus compensation for any benefits you would have got during the notice period. Print entire guid
Daily-Rate = Monthly Salary ÷ Average working days in a month. Payment in lieu of notice by the employer is a pretax earning for the employee. Payment in lieu of notice by the employee is a pretax deduction for the employee. 
Calculation: $57,000 / 26 biweekly pay periods = $2,192.31, or two-weeks' pay. Figure her daily salary if you want to pay her for only a certain amount of days. Calculation: $57,000 / 26 biweekly pay periods / 10 days = $219.23, or daily pay. Calculate pay in lieu of notice for hourly employees. Multiple the hours you wish to pay the employee by the hourly rate to arrive at the total pay. For example, if you want the pay wages in lieu of notice for a standard 40-hour week and the employee earns $11.50/hour, the calculation would be: 40 hours x $11.50 = $460. 1  Since pay in lieu of notice is regarded as wages, it's generally taxable and subject to tax withholding
The dismissal letter should specify a date that is the last day of employment. The employer should pay the employee’s pay and benefits in the normal way up to that date and make a payment in lieu of notice for any sums that would become due in the notice period. In general, a payment in lieu of notice is appropriate only when the contract is ending immediately. Therefore, at its simplest level, a payment in lieu of notice is the payment made by the employer to cover the damages for the breach of contract involved in terminating the contract without giving proper notice.