Directions. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place asparagus in a large plastic bag. Drizzle half the olive oil over the asparagus, seal the bag and shake until asparagus is coated evenly with the olive oil. If necessary, add only enough of the remaining olive oil to coat the asparagus. Place the asparagus in a single layer on a cookie sheet, season with salt and pepper. Bake until tender or crunchy depending upon your preference, about 12 to 20 minutes. Tips: (Shortcut chef) Toss asparagus with oil, salt and pepper as directed below and store in refrigerator until you're ready to bake it off.
How to Cook Asparagus on the Stove. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender. How to Roast Asparagus. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting
3 Roast for 10 minutes, more or less, depending on your particular oven and how thick the spears are, until the asparagus are just lightly browned and tender when you pierce them with a fork. To serve, drizzle with fresh lemon juice or balsamic vinegar, and if you want, a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese. Print. 1 Preheat your oven to 400°F (205°C). Rinse the asparagus spears. If the ends are tough, break them off and either discard or save for stock. You can also use a vegetable peeler to peel away the tough outer skin of the fatter ends of the asparagus if you want. 2 Line a roasting pan with foil (or silpat). Arrange the asparagus spears in a single layer on the lined roasting pan. Drizzle with olive oil and rub the spears all over with the olive oil to coat. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and minced garlic, and rub over the asparagus spears to evenly distribute
Heat the oven to 425°F. Snap off the woody ends of the asparagus and discard. How To Cook Asparagus in the Oven Serves 2 to 4 What You Need Ingredients 1 pound asparagus Olive oil Salt and freshly-ground black pepper Equipment Baking sheet Instructions Snap off the dry ends of the asparagus. Heat the oven to 425°F. Snap off the woody ends of the asparagus and discard. Drizzle with olive oil. Spread the asparagus in a single layer on a baking sheet and drizzle lightly with olive oil. Toss the asparagus to evenly coat with oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Sprinkle generously with salt and pepper. 1 Snap off the dry ends of the asparagus. 2  Heat the oven to 425°F. 3  Snap off the woody ends of the asparagus and discard. 4  Drizzle with olive oil. 5  Spread the asparagus in a single layer on a baking sheet and drizzle lightly with olive oil. 6  Toss the asparagus to evenly coat with oil. 7  Sprinkle with salt and pepper.
1. Add additional seasonings before cooking the asparagus. If you want to add more depth to the flavor of your asparagus, try adding a few different spices and seasonings as you add the salt and pepper. 1  Sprinkle 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) garlic powder or onion powder for an aromatic, savory effect. Place the pan on the top rack of the oven, about 4 to 5 inches (10 to 13 cm) away from the top heating element. 1  Check the asparagus after the 5 minutes have passed. 2  If the spears can be pierced with a knife, they are finished. 3  If not, flip the spears over to the other side and cook an additional 5 minutes.
1 Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 2  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 3  Arrange the asparagus onto a baking sheet in a single layer. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until just tender, 12 to 15 minutes depending on thickness. Ready In. 1  Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 3  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 4
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Break off the tough ends of the asparagus and, if they're thick, peel them. Place the asparagus on a baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil, then toss to coat the asparagus completely. Spread the asparagus in a single layer and sprinkle liberally with salt and pepper. Roast the asparagus for 25 minutes, until tender but still crisp.