A forward contract in the forex market that locks in the price at which an entity can buy or sell a currency on a future date. Also known as outright forward currency transaction, forward outright or FX forward. link. 0. 
A Forward Exchange Contract is an agreement between you and the Bank, in which the Bank agrees to Buy or Sell foreign currency to you on a fixed future date, or during a period expiring on a fixed future date, at a fixed rate of exchange. A Forward Exchange Contract is a contract between St.George Bank Ltd and you where the Bank agrees to BUY from you, or SELL to you, foreign currency
Forward Exchange Contracts. A Forward Exchange Contract is a contract between St.George Bank Ltd and you where the Bank agrees to BUY from you, or SELL to you, foreign currency on a fixed future date, at a fixed rate of exchange.
Forward Exchange Contract. Overview of Forward Exchange Contracts. A forward exchange contract is an agreement under which a business agrees to buy a certain amount of foreign currency on a specific future date. The purchase is made at a predetermined exchange rate. 
DEFINITION of 'Currency Forward'. A binding contract in the foreign exchange market that locks in the exchange rate for the purchase or sale of a currency on a future date. A currency forward is essentially a hedging tool that does not involve any upfront payment. Currency forward settlement can either be on a cash or a delivery basis, provided that the option is mutually acceptable and has been specified beforehand in the contract. Currency forwards are over-the-counter (OTC) instruments, as they do not trade on a centralized exchange.
As with the Exchange Rate, Forward Exchange Contracts are described as Buying or Selling Contracts. For an Importer, the Bank contracts to sell overseas currency, hence a Bank Selling Contract is established for a future date. At maturity, the Bank Selling Contract is used to meet the Importer's overseas commitment. A Forward Exchange Contract is a contract between St.George Bank Ltd and you where the Bank agrees to BUY from you, or SELL to you, foreign currency on a fixed future date, at a fixed rate of exchange.
In finance, a forward contract or simply a forward is a non-standardized contract between two parties to buy or to sell an asset at a specified future time at a price agreed upon today, making it a type of derivative instrument. In a currency forward, the notional amounts of currencies are specified (ex: a contract to buy $100 million Canadian dollars equivalent to, say $114.4 million USD at the current rate—these two amounts are called the notional amount(s)).
A forward currency contract mitigates foreign exchange risk for the parties and is most useful when both parties have operations or some other interest in a country using a given currency. Forward currency contracts are over-the-counter contracts. 
If the date of the foreign currency payment and the last trading date of the foreign currency forwards contract are matched up, the investor has in effect locked in the exchange rate payment amount. By locking into a forward contract to sell a currency, the seller sets a future exchange rate with no upfront cost. For example, a U.S. exporter signs a contract today to sell hardware to a French importer. The terms of the contract require the importer to pay euros in six months' time. 
2 Forwards Use: Forward exchange contracts are used by market participants to lock in an exchange rate on a specific date. An Outright Forward is a binding obligation for a physical exchange of funds at a future date at an agreed on rate. There is no payment upfront. 