The world’s remaining mountain gorillas live in three countries spanning four national parks—Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, Mgahinga Gorilla National Park, Volcanoes National Park, and Virunga National Park. Tags: DRC, Rwanda, Uganda, Virunga, West/Central Africa View Africa | Habitat. Physical Characteristics.
Mountain Gorillas live in the Virunga Mountains of East Central Africa. The mountain gorilla's habitat is the tropical forest, or jungle.   www.iwrc-online.org/kids … /Facts/Mammals/m_gorilla.htm - 13k.
Mountain gorillas are found in 3 countries in Africa: Rwanda, Uganda, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo(DR Congo). The gorillas live in a tiny area where these countries' borders meet, which is on the western edge of the East African Rift Valley. Their habitat is only about 780 sq km.
Habitat. Mountain gorillas live in Rwanda, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, on green, volcanic mountains. Lowland gorillas live in the forests of central and western Africa in Equatorial Guinea, Angola, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Gabon and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
There are two separate populations of mountain gorillas, each of which live in their own small patch of afromontane forest about 40 km from each other. The forests were once connected. However, it is believed that they became separated about 500 years ago by people clearing the forests for wood and farmland.
Mountain Gorilla Range. There are roughly 700 mountain gorillas remaining on Earth, and nearly half live in the forests of the Virunga mountains in central Africa.
There are gorillas that live in the rain forests of Africa while other … lowland gorillas live in the forests of western Africa. There are two populations. One is found in the Virunga volcanic mountains of Central Africa, within three National Parks and The other is found in Uganda's Bwindi Impenetrable National Park.
gorillas. mountain gorilla facts. what do gorillas eat. pictures of gorillas. where do gorillas live. gorilla habitat.