Although research is not conclusive, some studies shows that medical marijuana could be a potential solution for those suffering from osteoporosis. What’s more, the ability to use medical marijuana is slowly expanding throughout the United States due to the benefits of medical marijuana being recognized and the desire for freedom and legalization is growing, and therefore more individuals could benefit over the next few years.
Some research found that, while excessive cannabis use may reduce bone strength in younger individuals, using the plant could protect against osteoporosis later in life by activating a naturally occurring molecule (cannabinoid receptor, or CB1) in the body that is key to osteoporosis development. What’s more, the ability to use medical marijuana is slowly expanding throughout the United States due to the benefits of medical marijuana being recognized and the desire for freedom and legalization is growing, and therefore more individuals could benefit over the next few years.
Medical cannabis, or medical marijuana, refers to the use of cannabis and its cannabinoids to treat disease or improve symptoms. The use of cannabis as a medicine has not been rigorously scientifically tested often due to restrictions on the production of the drug. Medical cannabis can be administered using a variety of methods, including vaporizing or smoking dried buds, eating extracts, taking capsules or using oral sprays. Synthetic cannabinoids are available as prescription drugs in some countries; examples include: dronabinol and nabilone.
Approximately 10 million Americans over the age of 50 have osteoporosis and 80% of them are women. An additional 34 million Americans have low bone mass or osteopenia which predisposes them to developing osteoporosis. The word osteoporosis means “porous bones,” and is associated with the aging process. It is a condition in which our bones lose their mineral content and mass, becoming more fragile and prone to fractures. Any bones can be affected, but the hip and spine are the most vulnerable. It is estimated that one in two women and about one in four men over the age of 50 will suffer from an osteoporosis-related fracture during their lifetime. Biphosphonate medications such as Boniva, Fosamax, Reclast and Actonel are commonly prescribed for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. However, they come with side effects, the most common being nausea, upset stomach and inflammation of the esophagu
Because the DEA still classifies cannabis as a Schedule 1 narcotic. Schedule 1 narcotics are described as having a “high potential for abuse with no known medical uses.” This is the highest DEA schedule and includes drugs like heroin, PCP and crack. “Less dangerous” schedule 2 drugs include cocaine and opium. It originates from hormonal changes, calcium or vitamin D deficiencies, and aging. Osteoporosis can affect both men and women, however, women are more susceptible to it. Osteoporosis is why all of our grandmothers break their hips.
If this medical marijuana will be successfully proven to be used for treatment for osteoporosis, that will be better. Marijuana in itself is not a negative object, only that people abused its use for their personal addiction. What’s more, the ability to use medical marijuana is slowly expanding throughout the United States due to the benefits of medical marijuana being recognized and the desire for freedom and legalization is growing, and therefore more individuals could benefit over the next few years.
Scientists investigating the effects of cannabis on bone health have found that its impact varies dramatically with age. The study has found that although cannabis could reduce bone strength in young people, it may protect against osteoporosis, a weakening of the bones, in later life. I am 62 and have used cannabis almost daily for 40 years. All three of my sisters, my mother and grandmother suffer from osteoporosis and other degenerative bone loss. I am the only one that has not developed these crippling conditions.
Cannabis Promotes Healthy Bone Metabolism. Osteoporosis is a condition that causes bones to become brittle due to the loss of bone tissue. It originates from hormonal changes, calcium or vitamin D deficiencies, and aging. Osteoporosis can affect both men and women, however, women are more susceptible to it. Osteoporosis is why all of our grandmothers break their hips. To understand osteoporosis, you must understand our bones