Most American are familiar with Amazon.com and eBay, but many have not heard of Flipkart. Flipkart is the leader of e-commerce in the fast growing Indian market. The company focuses on goods such as electronics, books, music and movies. Consumers can access the site online or through an app on their mobile phones.
The company is by far the largest e-commerce firm in India and one of the largest websites in the country as well. As a private company, the complete financial information is not available. As it grows, the company has achieve tremendous success in raising investment funds as well.
Flipkart is an e-commerce company founded in 2007 by Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal. It is a Singaporean company which operates in India, where it is headquartered in Bangalore, Karnataka. Flipkart has launched its own product range under the name DigiFlip with products including tablets, USBs, and laptop bags.
Flipkart (Company) was founded in 2007 by Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal, both alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi. They worked for Amazon.com, and left to create their new company incorporated in October 2007 as Flipkart Online Services Pvt. Ltd.
Shop the Online Megastore with the free Flipkart windows phone app. Choose from the massive selection of original products in Fashion, Electronics, Books, Mobiles and other categories.
flipkart.com. A quick look into any success story shows a path breaking idea at the heart of the tale. Flipkart is no exception. It is not the idea itself but the conviction to convert ideas into action and action into results is what defines a true success story.
All while you are backed by Flipkart's 24x7 customer service. Flipkart Advantage is the fulfillment service for Sellers-Products sourced from Sellers are quality checked, stocked and shipped by Flipkart. As a Buyer, you are thus assured of product quality, faster delivery and hassle-free returns.
When you see the 'Flipkart Advantage' badge, you know you can buy the product from a Seller with complete confidence. Products marked with 'Flipkart Advantage' are sold by/sourced from a Seller but are quality checked, stocked, packed and shipped by Flipkart.