The very first statement by the question-asker was Christians do not believe in dinosaurs.. Therefore my response is I AM a Christian and I DO believe in dinosaurs.. To make the statement I believe in dinosaurs, therefore I am a Christian as you suggested doesn't even make a LITTLE bit of sense. Christians believe the earth is thousands of years olda€¦oldâ not. Millions Some christians believe that dinosaurs existed along with humans but were killed during the great. Flood however this does not make sense BECAUSE god said to take two of every. animal
They cana€™canâ t because dinosaurs lived on the earth millions of years. Ago christians believe the earth is thousands of years€¦olda oldâ. not millions Christians believe the earth is thousands of years olda€¦oldâ not. Millions Some christians believe that dinosaurs existed along with humans but were killed during the great. Flood however this does not make sense BECAUSE god said to take two of every. animal
B iblical creationists believe that man and dinosaurs lived at the same time because God, a perfect eyewitness to history, said that He created man and land animals on Day 6 (. ). Dinosaurs are land animals, so logically they were created on Day 6. 
Since humans are in the Bible, we unconsciously think that dinosaurs were extinctand therefore not mentioned in the Bible. As you have just seen, the Bible not only refers to dinosaurs, but has detailed information about two of them. 
They cana€™canâ t because dinosaurs lived on the earth millions of years. Ago christians believe the earth is thousands of years€¦olda oldâ. Not Millions some christians believe that dinosaurs existed along with humans but were killed during the. great flood Christians believe the earth is thousands of years olda€¦oldâ not. Millions Some christians believe that dinosaurs existed along with humans but were killed during the great. Flood however this does not make sense BECAUSE god said to take two of every. animal
Therefore, Christians belief in the Bible and the knowledge of the existence of dinosaurs, are not incompatible. In fact, they are completely compatible with God being the Creator of all life; plants, animals, insects, and mankind. Dinosaur-like Creatures Mentioned. In the Book of Job, dinosaur-like creatures are mentioned and so they appear to have existed at the same time that Adam and Eve and their descendants existed. Job is an ancient book.
Creationists believe dinosaurs are thousands, not millions, of years old. Pro: In order to square the existence of dinosaurs with the Book of Genesis--which posits a world that's only several thousand years old--Creationists insist that dinosaurs were created ex nihilo, by god, along with all the other animals. Creationists believe dinosaurs are mentioned in the Bible. Pro: Whenever the word  dragon  is used in the Old Testament, what's really meant is dinosaur, Creationists say--and they point out that other ancient texts also mention these fearsome, scaly creatures.
Job describes what sounds very much like a dinosaur. Read Job 40:15-24: 15 “Look at Behemoth, which I made along with you and which feeds on grass like an ox. 16 What strength it has in its loins, what power in the muscles of its belly! 17 Its tail sways like a cedar; the sinews of its thighs are close-knit. Dinosaur-like Creatures Mentioned. In the Book of Job, dinosaur-like creatures are mentioned and so they appear to have existed at the same time that Adam and Eve and their descendants existed. Job is an ancient book.
Some such Christians take the reference to sixdays of creation in Genesis 1 very literally to refer to six consecutive 24-hour periods. These Christians believe that dinosaurs and humans were created on the same day (Genesis 1:24-31), and so lived together on the earth until dinosaurs died out. They believe that evidence from science supports this view. It is also important to note that both groups of Christians see the existence of dinosaurs as no barrier to their trust in the Bible. Science and the Bible are not in conflict, but we have to recognize that our understanding of both is limited.
Conclusion. The more we read the Bible, the more we find that dinosaurs are not inconsistent with the scriptures. They could have died from disease, the flood, or in some cases, hunted into extinction. Regardless, it is obvious that the dinosaurs did roam the earth at one time. Dinosaur-like Creatures Mentioned. In the Book of Job, dinosaur-like creatures are mentioned and so they appear to have existed at the same time that Adam and Eve and their descendants existed. Job is an ancient book.