The thymus gland (known as throat sweetbread) and the pancreas (stomach sweetbread), especially of the calf and lamb (although beef sweetbreads are sometimes eaten), are considered delicacies and are rich in mineral elements and vitamins. The pancreas is generally preferred to the thymus.
Sweetbreads are the thymus and pancreas glands of animals. There are two kinds of sweetbreads: (1) stomach sweetbreads (also known as heart or belly sweetbreads), which are an animal's pancreas. (2) neck (throat or gullet) sweetbreads, an animal's thymus gland.
sweetbreads. Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig. The former is elongated, the latter rounder and larger.
Sweetbreads made from an animal's pancreas and thymus glands (called the heart sweetbread and throat sweetbread, respectively). Heart sweetbreads are usually slightly larger, but they taste the same and are cooked the same way.
Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig.
Food Encyclopedia. Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig. The former is elongated, the latter rounder and larger.
Sweetbreads on mushroom (morel) risotto. Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus (also called throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) or the pancreas (also called heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau), and, less commonly, of beef and pork.
Sweetbreads are the thymus glands and/or pancreas of calves, lambs and piglets under one year old. These glands are classified as offal in culinary circles, along with other parts such as gizzards and intestines.