A water borehole is an excellent way to access pure and natural underground water. A borehole is a small open, narrow shaft that is drilled vertically or horizontally into the ground to provide access to the water table below. Home | 62 Water Solutions | Importance of Water | Water Filtration/Coolers | Water Delivery | Water Quality Assurance | Contact Us | Testimonials | Articles SEO by Intoweb.
Large bore water holes are used by most of the major. watercompanies to get water for domestic use. A borehole is simply a deep narrow well usually driven. by an electric pump that taps into the underground stores. of water held in permeable rock known as aquifers. Thanks. to modern technology we can put a small water bore hole in. your garden or on your business premises. 
A borehole is a long, narrow well drilled to access underground water. The borehole is covered with a hand-pump to prevent contamination and to ease access. Before a borehole can be built, technicians and community leaders must work together to find the optimal location and drill a test borehole to assure the quality of the water. Construction of a borehole in Agyementi. After the construction, the borehole still requires maintenance.
Borehole logging, or well logging, is a process where a probe is dropped into a borehole prior to drilling for oil, gas, water, or minerals. Borehole logging is also performed by environmental organizations, as part of an environmental or geotechnical study. 
Full Definition of BOREHOLE. : a hole bored or drilled in the earth: as a: an exploratory well b chiefly British: a small-diameter well drilled especially to obtain water. See borehole defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Borehole Mining (BHM) is a remote operated method of extracting (mining) mineral resources through boreholes by means of high pressure water jets. This process can be carried-out from land surface, open pit floor, underground mine or floating platform or vessel through pre-drilled boreholes. 1 A borehole is drilled from land surface to a desired depth, where then actual borehole mining will take place. 2  A casing column is lowered down the hole. 3  Since BHM takes place in an open hole, the casing shoe is located just above the upper border of the production interval (ore body) leaving the rest open
Borehole. (well), a circular mining excavation more than 5 m deep and usually between 75 and 300 mm in diameter, made by a drilling rig. Boreholes are drilled from the earth’s surface and from underground mining excavations at any angle relative to the horizon. Three parts are distinguished: the head (mouth), bottom (face), and shaft. Borehole depths range from a few to 9 km and more. 
A borehole is a narrow shaft bored in the ground, either vertically or horizontally. Clusters of small-diameter boreholes equipped with heat exhangers made of plastic PEX pipe can be used to store heat or cold between opposing seasons in a mass of native rock. The technique is called seasonal thermal energy storage. Mediums that can be used for this technique range from gravel to bedrock.
1 Encia workmen are punching boreholes deep into the ground to suck up oily chemicals which leaked into aquifers far beneath the surface. 2  Then a specific place in the center of each grid has been selected for excavating the geotechnical borehole. Example sentences. 1 