Like the Real Thing, Only Stronger. Natural wicker furniture is made from rattan, a tropical climbing palm, or, sometimes, bamboo, a tropical grass. All-weather wicker, however, is woven from resin, which can be made into fine, vine-like pieces that resemble the authentic, natural materials.
Resin wicker is a synthetic material that is mainly used for outdoor furniture. It looks just like real wicker but is much more useful and durable. It is made into similar products and sold in countless garden centers, home stores, and department stores around the world.
Resin wicker, also known as all-weather wicker, is manufactured predominantly for use in outdoor patio furniture. It is meant to look like natural wicker, but is made of a synthetic material, generally polyethylene. Wicker is not actually a material, but a method of weaving.
Resin wicker works best on patios or in backyards. Wicker refers to the plaited fibers, such as pliable reeds and branches, grasses, plastic strands and other sources woven into furniture or baskets, rather than a specific product or plant used to make these items.
Resin wicker for outdoor use includes rocking chairs, sofas, loveseats, chairs and other pieces. But not all resin wicker furniture is created equally. The materials used to construct the resin wicker vary.
Resin wicker furniture -- designed for outdoor use or patio furniture -- holds up to the elements better than wicker made from natural materials. Sometimes called outdoor wicker or all-weather wicker, resin wicker's actual composition varies from brand to brand.
Resin wicker furniture is made from synthetic resin strands woven around durable aluminum frames that are lightweight, easy to move and virtually impervious to the forces of Mother Nature.
Wicker furniture is known for its imperviousness, and is now part of the forefront of outdoor seating trends for today's decks, patios, and porches. Resin wicker (and other all-weather wicker) is similar in appearance to natural wicker, but its plastic-based form resists moisture, wear, and rot.