For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Leasing Consultant in the United States is $28,224 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Leasing Consultant in the United States are expected to make less than $28,224. Source: HR Reported data as of September 2015. Median $28,224. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Leasing Consultant in the United States.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Leasing Consultant may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Leasing Consultant in the United States.
For Leasing Agents, hourly average wages total $12.30 per hour. Compensation for this group is mainly affected by location, but career length and the individual firm are influential factors as well. Unfortunately, some people in this line of work are without benefits — approximately two in five lack coverage. 
1 The NALP certification course requires you to have worked as a leasing consultant for at least six months you can become certified, although you can begin taking this course before you have six months’ experience. 2  Some BOMA courses are targeted toward leasing agents and property managers with 3-5 years experience. 1 This may help you to find a job as a leasing consultant. 2  You might also ask about average salaries for leasing consultants in your area. 3  Keep in mind that many consultants work on commission.
Salary. Leasing agents receive a base annual salary in addition to sales commissions and other benefits, such as health care, 401(k) and holiday pay. The base pay is applicable to the agent’s job level and responsibilities. According to Indeed.com, the average salary for leasing agents is $43,000 as of publication. 
Salary.com splits leasing consultants into entry-level and senior positions. The website stated that September 2015 entry-level positions made a median annual salary of $28,224. At a senior level, which comes with 2-4 years of experience, the median annual salary was $34,421 during the same month.
Average Leasing Consultant salaries for job postings nationwide are 38% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Leasing Consultant Job Description. The following is a full job description for Leasing Consultant. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Leasing Consultant along with statistics. 
Popular Employer Salaries for Leasing Consultant. Leasing Consultants seeking a sizable paycheck can earn the most at Equity Residential, where the median salary comes to $37K, though the large pay difference between employees at the top ($30K) and those starting out ($55K) creates a rather diverse pay scale. For Leasing Consultants, hourly average wages total $12.80 per hour. Earnings for this group are mostly affected by location, followed by the specific employer and years of experience. Unfortunately, some people in this line of work are without benefits — just under one in three lack coverag