Most drivers and commuters are likely to have seen a flagger on the job. These are the personnel who control vehicle-traffic to create a safe environment for construction/repair projects, such as those involving roadways or parking lots. Although there are no formal education requirements for the position, applicants should have strong communication skills and be in good physical shape. Most flaggers must be able to stand for hours at a time and reasonably avoid drivers and other hazards on the job site.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Although there are no formal education requirements for the position, applicants should have strong communication skills and be in good physical shape. Most flaggers must be able to stand for hours at a time and reasonably avoid drivers and other hazards on the job site.
For example, at the Advantage Staffing website at http://www.advantagestaffing.net/Jobs.htm#Flagger, an ad reads: FLAGGERS – Oregon and Washington $8.50 - $9.50 per hour Job Description: Need certified flaggers for local construction sites. There's a good article about gettting a job as a flagger at http://www.ehow.com/how_5280970_job-flagger-making-hr.html which might also be helpful. It mentions that union flaggers can earn close to $25 per hour, while non-union and utility company workers, etc. make less.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Average flagger salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits, etc. However, according to the Simply Hired website at http://www.simplyhired.com/a/salary/sear... which has taken the average salary for all jobs with the term flagger and calculated this sum for the Tillamook, Oregon area, the annual salary is $24,000. There's a good article about gettting a job as a flagger at http://www.ehow.com/how_5280970_job-flagger-making-hr.html which might also be helpful. It mentions that union flaggers can earn close to $25 per hour, while non-union and utility company workers, etc. make less.
Average Flagger salaries for job postings in Tacoma, WA are 8% higher than average Flagger salaries for job postings nationwide. 
On average a flagger will make about $17,000 per year or $15 to $20 per hour, but some may make up to $50 per hour in certain situations. Highway flaggers are essential to maintain the world’s roads. Flagger jobs are risky, but the danger increases at dusk and dark. They are the most at risk highway workers. In order to create the least amount of hassle, road construction must be completed quickly and often goes on 24 hours a day.
Excluding overtime pay (which bumps median pay up to $16.89), people who work for Flagger Force earn a median wage of $11.12 per hour. Years of Experience. When we consider tenure, a substantial portion of employees (75 percent) have been working for one to four years and make around $10.92 per hour on average.
Average Certified Flaggers Salaries. The average salary for certified flaggers jobs in Las Vegas, NV is $20,000. Average certified flaggers salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term certified flaggers anywhere in the job listing.
Average Flagger Salaries. The average salary for flagger jobs is $30,000. Average flagger salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term flagger anywhere in the job listing