Recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH) is a synthetic (man-made) hormone that is marketed to dairy farmers to increase milk production in cows. Recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH) or recombinant bovine somatotropin (rBST) refers to bovine growth hormone that is made in a lab using genetic technology. Some rBGH products on the market differ chemically from a cow's natural somatotropin by one amino acid
Bovine growth hormone, or bovine somatotropin (also called bGH, rbGH, bST, or bST), is given to cows to make them mature faster and produce more milk. The hormone is produced by cows' pituitary gland and an extra amino acid is attached before it's injected into dairy cows. The hormone was first used in 1993. 
Oxytocin and Prolactin are the hormones produced during breastfeeding that work together to make milk, establish a letdown, and keep up with the supply and demand of a nursing infant. Breastfeeding Hormone Prolactin. Production of Prolactin is stimulated by the baby sucking at the breast, and its primary function is to make more milk. Breastfeeding hormones are an important part of keeping up your milk supply.
PROLACTIN: A MILK-PRODUCING HORMONE. Prolactin is a hormone secreted by the pituitary gland which is located at the base of the brain. It circulates in low levels in the bloodstream of non pregnant women. During pregnancy, prolactin levels increase approximately ten-fold and stimulate milk formation
Artificial BST is produced using recombinant DNA technology (biotechnology), and called rBST for short. rBST is commonly known as Bovine Growth Hormone or rBGH. When injected into cows, rBGH increases milk production 10 to 15 percent. The FDA continues to assure consumers that rBGH is safe for cows and humans, despite evidence to the contrary. In 1994, the FDA prohibited dairies from claiming there is any difference between milk from rBGH-injected cows and milk produced without the artificial hormone.
Bovine somatotropin (BST) or bovine growth hormone (BHG) is a naturally-occurring hormone in cows that helps them produce milk. Amount of BST secreted in milk depends upon stage of lactation, parity, nutrition and herd environment. Growth hormone is a protein hormone produced in the pituitary gland of animals, including humans, and is essential for normal growth, development, and health maintenance.
rBGH is a genetically engineered artificial hormone injected into dairy cows to make them produce more milk. Despite opposition from scientists, farmers and consumers, the US currently allows dairy cows to be injected with recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH), also known as recombinant bovine somatotropin (rBST). The FDA continues to assure consumers that rBGH is safe for cows and humans, despite evidence to the contrary. In 1994, the FDA prohibited dairies from claiming there is any difference between milk from rBGH-injected cows and milk produced without the artificial hormone.
Prolactin levels increase several minutes after a baby begins to nurse. Hormones play a pivotal role in human milk production. The main hormone responsible for milk production, prolactin, is essential for breast-feeding, as it stimulates milk production. But prolactin production and milk let-down also rely on a number of other hormones
Sometimes referred to as Bovine Somatotropin (rBST), the bioengineered hormone is injected in the cows every other week to force the cows to produce more milk than their bodies normally would. rBGH is similar, although not identical, to a hormone that the cow naturally produces. 