temperature inversion. temperature inversion, condition in which the temperature of the atmosphere increases with altitude in contrast to the normal decrease with altitude. When temperature inversion occurs, cold air underlies warmer air at higher altitudes. 1 inversion layer: meaning and definitions-inversion layer: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  inversion: meaning and definitions-inversion: Definition and Pronunciation. 3  smog-smog smog [smoke+fog], dense, visible air pollution. 4  Smog is commonly of two types. 5  The gray smog ...
Temperature inversion layers, also called thermal inversions or just inversion layers, are areas where the normal decrease in air temperature with increasing altitude is reversed and air above the ground is warmer than the air below it. This is why inversion layers are called stable air masses. Temperature inversions are a result of other weather conditions in an area. They occur most often when a warm, less dense air mass moves over a dense, cold air mass.
In meteorology, an inversion is a deviation from the normal change of an atmospheric property with altitude. It almost always refers to a temperature inversion, i.e. an increase in temperature with height, or to the layer (inversion layer) within which such an increase occurs. An inversion can lead to pollution such as smog being trapped close to the ground, with possible adverse effects on health. An inversion can also suppress convection by acting as a cap. If this cap is broken for any of several reasons, convection of any moisture present can then erupt into violent thunderstorms. Sometimes the inversion layer is at a high enough altitude that cumulus clouds can condense but can only spread out under the inversion layer. This decreases the amount of sunlight reaching the ground and prevents new thermals from forming.
Another effect that an inversion has is to make clouds just below the inversion to spread out and take on a flattened appearance. For instance, marine stratocumulus clouds over cold ocean waters; or the tops of thunderstorms when they reach the base of the stratosphere, which also forms a temperature inversion. Still another effect is to prevent thunderstorms from forming. Even in an air mass that is hot and humid in the lowest layers, thunderstorms will be prevented if an inversion in the lower atmosphere is keeping this air from rising. The conceptual opposite of a temperature inversion is an unstable air layer.
A temperature inversion is a thin layer of the atmosphere where the normal decrease in temperature with height switches to the temperature increasing with height. An inversion acts like a lid, keeping normal convective overturning of the atmosphere from penetrating through the inversion. Still another effect is to prevent thunderstorms from forming. Even in an air mass that is hot and humid in the lowest layers, thunderstorms will be prevented if an inversion in the lower atmosphere is keeping this air from rising. The conceptual opposite of a temperature inversion is an unstable air layer.
Smog is impacted by the inversion layer because it is in essence, capped, when the warm air mass moves over an area. This happens because the warmer air layer sits over a city and prevents the normal mixing of cooler, denser air. This is why inversion layers are called stable air masses. Temperature inversions are a result of other weather conditions in an area. They occur most often when a warm, less dense air mass moves over a dense, cold air mass.
An inversion occurs when a section of the atmosphere becomes warmer as the elevation increases. Inversion layers are a significant factor in the formation of smog in. because they create stable atmospheric conditions. Inversions act to prevent mixing in the lower regions of the troposphere, so pollutants become trapped quite easily and contribute to the formation of smog. 
During an inversion episode, temperatures increase with increasing altitude. The warm inversion layer then acts as a cap and stops atmospheric mixing. This is why inversion layers are called stable air masses. Temperature inversions are a result of other weather conditions in an area. They occur most often when a warm, less dense air mass moves over a dense, cold air mass.
(surface-based or elevated) : a layer of the atmosphere in which air temperature increases with height. When the layer's base is at the surface, the layer is called a surface-based temperature inversion; when the base of the layer is above the surface, the layer is called an elevated temperature inversion. You can either type in the word you are looking for in the box below or browse by letter. Search: Browse by letter:
The strength of the inversion is often measured by the temperature difference between the top and base of the inversion layer, with a larger temperature difference indicating a stronger inversion. Stronger (weaker) than normal high pressure is usually associated with a stronger (weaker) than normal inversion layer. LCL vs. Inversion Base. The relative location of the LCL and the inversion base determine if marine stratus clouds will form. It is the relative location of both the LCL and the base of the Inversion Layer that determine if marine layer