Just Kidding (TV series). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Just Kidding is a Canadian live-action hidden camera reality series that first aired on February 3, 2013 on its original channel, Teletoon, and November 19, 2012 on Disney XD. It is not broadcast on Teletoon télétoon due TO 'tva s broadcasting rights of the series In-French canadian. territories In 2014, Just Kidding (along with other live-action Teletoon shows, My Babysitter's a Vampire, and R.L. Stine's The Haunting Hour) has moved from Teletoon to YTV.
Just Kidding is a reality series that originally aired in Australia from 1992 to 1996. It is produced by Maurice Murphy and the associate producer is Wendy Hinton. The host for the series is Steven Jacobs. The co-host from 1992 to 1994 is Sofie Formica, and the co-host from 1995 to 1996 is Kimberley Davies. Davis is best-known for her role as Annalise Hartman in the Australian soap opera Neighbours. She is at the height of her popularity when she co-hosts Just Kidding. This series is a hidden camera comedy that features performers playing pranks on an unsuspecting member of the public. The pranks are especially outrageous, and push the boundaries of public television in Australia
Olivia Thai comes out with her story on why she supposedly left Just Kidding Films a.k.a. jkfilms. The fact is she did NOT leave jkfilms, but was fired. According to Olivia, the company has been involved with illegal unpaid internships. Watch the video and see the drama unfold. 
The show is loosely based on Just for Laughs: Gags (which is itself based on the American show Candid Camera), with some inspiration from Rene Cardona's La risa en vacaciones series to boot, only this show's premise focuses on kids pulling jokes. In 2014, Just Kidding (along with other live-action Teletoon shows, My Babysitter's a Vampire, and R.L. Stine's The Haunting Hour) has moved from Teletoon to YTV.
Written By Jeff Klima. So last week Just Kidding films announced they were going to not only make a feature film, but they were going to film every step of the process: This week begins that odyssey with their homework assignment: find a concept for a feature film. Each voting member of the group gets to pitch one idea: the first is a time machine/time traveller piece about erasing regret, the second is a modern day “pen pal lovers” romantic piece and the third is a sweet buddy comedy revenge movie.
It is mostly filmed in Quebec, Montreal and Vancouver, although some segments have been filmed in Mexico as well. British and Asian versions have been produced in the UK and Singapore respectively. In 2011, the show spawned a spinoff titled Just Kidding, which consists exclusively of kids playing pranks on adults. Just for Laughs: Gags (in French, Juste pour rire: Gags) is a Canadian silent comedy/ hidden camera reality television show that is under the Just for Laughs brand. It is based on the similar American series Candid Camera.
Charming and LOL-Funny 17 November 2011 | by kittenpants (kittenpants@hotmail.com) (NYC, NY, USA) – See all my reviews The Funniest Movie Ever... Just Kidding is full of awkward moments and laugh-out-loud situations, starting with the title and ending with the credits. Stephen Schneider as Steve Deeds is perfect; the character's mixture of naivete naiveté and arrogance--works'you ll root for, him despite your better. judgment