Chichen Itza Location. Chichen Itza Location-Chichen Itza. Chichen-Itza, now including one of the new seven wonders of the world; the Kukulkan Pyramid, is located in the Yucatan Peninsula, in the Yucatan State; Mexico, between Merida and Valladolid and is only 120 km from Merida. Chichen Itza Location-Chichen Itza. Chichen-Itza, now including one of the new seven wonders of the world; the Kukulkan Pyramid, is located in the Yucatan Peninsula, in the Yucatan State; Mexico, between Merida and Valladolid and is only 120 km from Merida. Chichen Itza Location-Chichen Itza. 2015 Chichen Itza. 
The archaeological site is located in Tinum Tinúm, Municipality Yucatan, Yucatán. State Mexico chichen itza was a major focal point In The Northern maya lowlands From The (late. CLASSIC c–ad) 600 900 Through The (terminal. CLASSIC c–ad) 800 900 and into the early portion Of the (postclassic. PERIOD c–ad). 900 1200 Chichen Itza is one of the most visited archaeological sites in Mexico; an estimated 1.2 million tourists visit the ruins every year.
Chichen Itza is the most visited archaeological site in the peninsula of Yucatan, due to its extraordinary architecture beauty and its geographical location. It was founded in the year 514 of our era by the priest LAKIN CHAN who was also called Itzamna. The archaeological site of Chichen Itza is divided into 3 areas: the Northern group (distinctly Toltec), the Central group (early period) and the Southern area known as the Old Chichen (located far away from the other buildings and its visit requires a guide).
Next (Chick Hearn). Chichen Itza (At the mouth of the well of the Itza) is a large pre-Columbian archaeological site built by the Maya civilization located in the northern center of the Yucatan Yucatán, peninsula-present Day. mexico
Chichen Itza. Chichen Itza is one of the most important Maya sites. It is located on the Yucatan peninsula. Chichen Itza translates as “The Mouth of the Well of the Magicians of Water” - chi (“mouth,” “edge”), chen (“well”), itz (“magic,” “witchery”), and ha (“water”). 
Located 112 miles (180 km) west of Cancun, Chichen Itza is the most famous of all the Mayan ruins. This is somewhat ironic because it most well known structures do not have a typical Classic Mayan architecture but show influences from Central Mexico. 
Hacienda Chichen and Yaxkin Spa are located within the Zona Hotelera of Chichen Itza, next to the southeast entrance to Chichen Itza archaeological site, between the Maya villages of Piste and Xcalacoop, in the Municipality of Tinum, Yucatan, Mexico. Read and print our DRIVING DIRECTIONS. 
Chichen Itza is located near the town of Piste on the main highway between the capital city of Merida mérida and the resort city Of. cancun 2nd class buses passing through town stop almost anywhere along the way while many 1st class buses only hit the ruins and west side Of. piste 
by Mark Cartwright. Chichen Itza, located at the northern tip of the Yucatan Yucatán peninsula of Modern, mexico was A maya city which was later significantly influenced by The toltec. civilization 
Chichen Itza, world famous archaeological zone,is located 120 km from Merida via federal highway 180 in the State of Yucatan Mexico. The name Chichen Itza is derived from the Mayan language: Chi - mouth, Chen - well and Itza -the tribe that inhabited the area. The archaeological site of Chichen Itza is divided into 3 areas: the Northern group (distinctly Toltec), the Central group (early period) and the Southern area known as the Old Chichen (located far away from the other buildings and its visit requires a guide).