Red Grapes: Grapes don't have to be fermented to contain this antioxidant. It's actually found in the skin of red grapes along with other nutrients, such as minerals manganese and potassium and vitamins K, C and B1. Peanut Butter: Peanut butter is great for dressing up apples and celery, but it also contains some resveratrol (up to .13 mg per cup). Peanut butter is a great source of niacin and manganese.
Acai, resveratrol and pomegranate are three of the healthiest supplements available because they are high in free radical-fighting antioxidants. Acai berries come from the Brazilian rain forest and are one of the healthiest whole foods on Earth. Pomegranates are native to the Middle East and Southeast Asia. 
In grapes, resveratrol is found primarily in the skin, and, in muscadine grapes, also in the seeds. The amount found in grape skins also varies with the grape cultivar, its geographic origin, and exposure to fungal infection. The levels of resveratrol found in food varies greatly. Red wine contains between 0.2 and 5.8 mg/l, depending on the grape variety, while white wine has much less, because red wine is fermented with the skins, allowing the wine to extract the resveratrol, whereas white wine is fermented after the skin has been removed.
By Dr. Mercola. Resveratrol, a potent antioxidant found in a number of plants, including red grape skins, pomegranate, raw cacao, peanuts, and berries like raspberries and mulberries, is known to have a number of beneficial health effects. 
Resveratrol. Resveratrol might be a key ingredient in red wine that helps prevent damage to blood vessels, reduces “bad” cholesterol and prevents blood clots. Order Resveratrol Now (or scroll down). FACT: Resveratrol is a polyphenol naturally found in the skin of red grapes, certain berries, and other plants. Resveratrol, a substance found in red wine, may be very beneficial for your health and well-being. Resveratrol is an antioxidant that helps protect your body against the damage caused by free radicals. Antioxidants are essential nutrients that are especially important in reducing your risk of heart disease and stroke
The amount of resveratrol found in one glass of wine can range from 0.2 milligrams to 2.0 mg, according to the Linus Pauling Institute. While250 mg may seem excessive, it's not uncommon for resveratrol supplements. to include as much as 900 milligrams of resveratrol. [ Top 10 Bad Things That Are Good For You ]. Peanut Butter: Peanut butter is great for dressing up apples and celery, but it also contains some resveratrol (up to .13 mg per cup). Peanut butter is a great source of niacin and manganese.
Resveratrol is LIKELY SAFE when used in the amounts found in foods, and when taken by mouth in doses up to 250 mg daily for up to 3 months. Higher doses of up to 900 mg have been taken for up to 2 days. Resveratrol has also been applied to the skin safely for up to 30 days. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Resveratrol is LIKELY SAFE when used in amounts found in some foods. 1 Some research suggests that taking 5 mg of resveratrol twice daily for 4 weeks does not affect insulin levels in people with diabetes. 2  However, other evidence shows that taking a specific product that contains resveratrol (Biofort) daily for 3 months reduces blood sugar, blood pressure and fat levels in the blood.
Food sources of resveratrol include the skin of grapes, blueberries, raspberries, and mulberries. As of 2014, there is limited evidence of health effects in humans. The levels of resveratrol found in food varies greatly. Red wine contains between 0.2 and 5.8 mg/l, depending on the grape variety, while white wine has much less, because red wine is fermented with the skins, allowing the wine to extract the resveratrol, whereas white wine is fermented after the skin has been removed.
Their seeds are known to contain active plant compounds. Trans-Resveratrol: Resveratrol is a natural plant compound found most abundantly in the skin and seeds of grapes. Trans-resveratrol is the most-studied resveratrol isomer. Vitacost Pomegranate, Grape Seed & Trans-Resveratrol Extract is a combination formula featuring three high-quality, standardized fruit extracts: Included are: