The BioHazard Symbol. Every part of the biohazard symbol can be drawing using a straightedge and a compass. This symbol itself is comprised of three overlapping circles with various parts that are erased. There is a tiny circle in the middle that serves as a place holder for all of the larger circles used in the symbol. Biohazard Symbol Origin. As a whole, hazard symbols are designed to warn individuals that a certain material or location contains a harmful “things” that could be potentially lethal. Biohazard symbols specifically are designed to warn about biomedical dangers, which may come in the form of life-threatening viruses or other diseases. Hazard symbols in general tend to come in many different designs and colors, while biohazard symbols are universally recognized by their three overlapping circles
This page is about the meaning, origin and characteristic of the symbol, emblem, seal, sign, logo or flag: Biohazard Sign. Biological hazards, also known as biohazards, refer to biological substances that pose a threat to the health of living organisms, primarily that of humans. The biohazard symbol was developed in 1966 by Charles Baldwin, an environmental-health engineer working for the Dow Chemical Company on the containment products. It is used in the labeling of biological materials that carry a significant health risk, including viral samples and used hypodermic needles.
The History of the Biohazard Sign Symbol. The Biohazard symbol has a rich and fascinating history behind its creation. While it seems abstract at first glance, both biologists and laymen quickly and easily grasp its warning. Only fifty years ago, the symbol was entirely unknown, but today we see the biohazard symbol in clinics, labs, and even on skateboards! This now-ubiquitous symbol was created with some thorough testing and decision making by scientists and psychologists over 40 years ago
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: biohazard symbol (Noun). A symbol that is universally recognized as a warning against substances that pose a threat to the health of living organisms, primarily that of humans. 
Biohazard Symbol – history and meaning Biohazard Symbol – also known as biological hazards is a symbol that refers to biological substances that pose a health hazard to humans and animals. The symbol is generally used as a warning, so that those who are exposed to the elements can take precautions. The biohazard symbol was developed in 1966 at the initiative of environmental and health engineer Charles Baldwin at the Dow Chemical Company. He had observed that there were many different types of biohazard-related signs and thought it was dangerous, because few people knew their meaning.
Full Definition of BIOHAZARD. : a biological agent or condition that is a hazard to humans or the environment; also: a hazard posed by such an agent or condition. — bio·haz·ard·ous \ˌbī-ō-ˈha-zər-dəs\ adjective. See biohazard defined for English-language learners.
Medical Definition of BIOHAZARD. : a biological agent or condition (as an infectious organism or insecure laboratory procedures) that constitutes a hazard to humans or the environment; also: a hazard posed by such an agent or condition. — bio·haz·ard·ous \-ˈhaz-ərd-əs\ adjective. : a biological agent or condition that is a hazard to humans or the environment; also: a hazard posed by such an agent or condition. — bio·haz·ard·ous \ˌbī-ō-ˈha-zər-dəs\ adjective. See biohazard defined for English-language learners.
Noun [edit]. biohazard symbol (plural biohazard symbols). 1  A symbol that is universally recognized as a warning against substances that pose a threat to the health of living organisms, primarily that of humans. 
Accordingly, the Biohazard symbol was designed purely to symbolize a subtle and invisible force that acts through organisms or the parts of organisms, namely: bacteria, viruses with enormous generative power, and contaminant agents, conveyed by the atmosphere or biological fluids. 