Full Definition of SPLINT. 1. : a small plate or strip of metal used in making armor. 2. a: a thin strip of wood suitable for interweaving (as into baskets) b: splinter c: material or a device used to protect and immobilize a body part (as a broken arm). 
1 Ice. 2  Apply ice to the splint or cast. 3  Place the ice in a dry plastic bag or ice pack and loosely wrap it around the splint or cast at the level of the injury. 4  Ice that is packed in a rigid container and touches the cast at only one point will not be effective. 1 Apply ice to the splint or cast. 2  Place the ice in a dry plastic bag or ice pack and loosely wrap it around the splint or cast at the level of the injury. 3
If your injured area is very swollen, you may need a splint until the swelling goes down. You may still need a cast after the swelling goes down. Also, if your injury is swollen, both splints and casts may need to be adjusted in the first few days. As the swelling goes down, a cast or splint may become too loose. All casts are custom-made with fiberglass or plaster. A cast wraps all the way around an injury and can only be removed in the doctor's office. A splint is like a half cast. The hard part of a splint does not wrap all the way around the injured area like it does with a cast. Instead, there are usually 2 hard areas connected with an elastic bandage or other material that hold the splint in plac
A splint is a piece of medical equipment used to keep an injured body part from moving and to protect it from any further damage. A splint is often used to stabilize a broken bone while the injured person is taken to the hospital for more advanced treatment. It can also be used if you have a severe strain or sprain in one of your limbs. Place the splint so that it rests on the joint above the injury and the joint below it. For example, if you are splinting a forearm, place the rigid support item under the forearm. Then, tie or tape it to the arm just below the wrist and above the elbow. Avoid placing ties directly over the injured area
Uses. Splints are most commonly used to immobilize broken bones or dislocated joints. When a broken bone has been properly set, a splint permits complete rest at the site of the fracture and thus allows natural healing to take place with the bone in the proper position. n a provisional splint consisting of cast continuous clasps that follow the facial and lingual surfaces of the teeth at the height of contour. It is cemented onto the teeth to be splinted and simultaneously wired closed to bring the clasps into intimate contact with the teeth.
This article is about the ailment. For uses of the word splint, see Splint (disambiguation) . Splints is an ailment of the horse or pony, characterized by a hard, bony swelling, usually on the inside of a front leg, lying between the splint and cannon bone or on the splint bone itself. The splints may occur in a front leg or hind, in one leg or both. Severe enough trauma can fracture the splint bone. If minimally displaced, and in the lower portion, some heal well. Others may need surgical removal of a portion of the damaged splint bone. Concussion is another cause of splints.
A board used as a splint should be at least as wide as the injured part. Tightly rolled newspapers or magazines can be used to splint the arm or lower leg. Ice cream sticks have been used as splints for broken fingers. Splints should be padded, at least on one side. n a provisional splint consisting of cast continuous clasps that follow the facial and lingual surfaces of the teeth at the height of contour. It is cemented onto the teeth to be splinted and simultaneously wired closed to bring the clasps into intimate contact with the teeth.
Thomas splint two iron rods joined at the upper end by an oval iron ring or half-ring, and bent at the lower end to form a W shape; used to give support to the lower limb and remove the weight of the body from the knee joint by transferring it to the pelvis. n a provisional splint consisting of cast continuous clasps that follow the facial and lingual surfaces of the teeth at the height of contour. It is cemented onto the teeth to be splinted and simultaneously wired closed to bring the clasps into intimate contact with the teeth.