Susceptibility to bacitracin is determined by placing a bacitracin-impregnated paper disk on a nutrient agar plate seeded with the microbe under investigation. Should the microbe be resistant, the lawn of cells will form visible growth up to the margin of the disk. This test can be performed using disks impregnated with either 0.04 U or 2.0 U concentrations of bacitracin. In either instance, the mechanism of the test is the same.
Principle: Bacitracin test is used to determine the effect of a small amount of bacitracin (0.04 U) on an organism. Streptococcus pyogenes (group A streptococci) is inhibited by the small amount of bacitracin in the disk; other beta-hemolytic streptococci usually are not. Procedure of Bacitracin test. 1  Using an inoculating loop, streak two or three suspect colonies of a pure culture onto a blood agar plate. Bacitracin is a bactericidal drug useful in the treatment of superficial skin infections but too toxic for systemic use. Bacitracin is a polypeptide antibiotic produced by Bacillus subtilis. This drug interferes in the peptidoglycan synthesis of Bacteria.
Bacitracin Discs CT0005 are not recommended for routine testing of the sensitivity of organisms to Bacitracin. For this purpose it is advisable to employ Bacitracin Sensitivity Discs at a level of 10 units. Quality Control Use known Group A and non-Group A streptococci to monitor the accuracy of the discs and inoculum. References 1 Maxted W. R. (1953) J. Clin. The bacitracin disc technique was considered to be the simplest and most practical for the routine clinical laboratory. The use of bacitracin sensitivity testing is not restricted to the differentiation of beta-haemolytic streptococci.
If the bacteria are susceptible to bacitracin, there will be a visible zone of inhibition forming around the disk, representing an area where the antibiotic concentration has prevented bacterial growth. Should the microbe be resistant, the lawn of cells will form visible growth up to the margin of the disk. This test can be performed using disks impregnated with either 0.04 U or 2.0 U concentrations of bacitracin. In either instance, the mechanism of the test is the same.
Growth of the lawn up to the margin of the disk indicates the bacterium is resistant to the antibiotic. An obvious clear zone around the disk, termed the zone of inhibition, indicates the bacterium to be susceptible to the antibiotic. Should the microbe be resistant, the lawn of cells will form visible growth up to the margin of the disk. This test can be performed using disks impregnated with either 0.04 U or 2.0 U concentrations of bacitracin. In either instance, the mechanism of the test is the same.
Bacitracin is an antibiotic interfering with the synthesis of peptidoglycan, a major component of bacterial cell walls. Different types of bacteria have different degrees of susceptibility to bacitracin. This test determines whether the bacterium is either sensitive (susceptible) to bacitracin or resistant to the drug. Should the microbe be resistant, the lawn of cells will form visible growth up to the margin of the disk. This test can be performed using disks impregnated with either 0.04 U or 2.0 U concentrations of bacitracin. In either instance, the mechanism of the test is the same.
A sterile disk impregnated with bacitracin (also known as “Taxo A disk”) is placed on the first sector of an isolation plate before incubation. A zone of inhibition (area with no growth) will be seen around the disk after incubation if the organism is a Group A beta-hemolytic Streptococcus. Other beta-hemolytic streptococci are resistant to (not killed by) bacitracin. Their colonies will thus grow right up to the disk of bacitracin. 1 With sterile forceps, obtain a bacitracin disk and place inon the inoculated agar at the intersection of the primary and secondary streaks. 2  Tap the disk with forceps to ensure adherence to the agar surface.
The bacitractin and optochin sensitivity tests identify whether an organism is susceptible or resistant to optochin and bacitracin. A blood agar plate is streaked for confluent growth with the organism to be tested, and paper disks that have been infused with either bacitracin or optochin are applied to the surface of the agar. The plate is then incubated. If the organism grows up to the edge of the disk, it is resistant to the antimicrobial compound infusing the disk. If there is a zone around the edge of the disk where the organism has not grown, the organism is susceptible to the antimicrobial in the disk
P urpose and Scope: The bacitracin susceptibility test is used to distinguish Group A streptococci, from other streptococci. When grown on blood agar, Group A streptococci are sensitive to (killed by) the antibiotic bacitracin. 1 With sterile forceps, obtain a bacitracin disk and place inon the inoculated agar at the intersection of the primary and secondary streaks. 2  Tap the disk with forceps to ensure adherence to the agar surface.