Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Generally 4 years and that is after receiving a Bachelor's degree (which is another 4-5 years). After Med school (and after you pass your boards - long difficult tests) you are a Doctor but that doesn't mean that you practice anywhere. You can't get a real job without experience. So you get a (low paying) job as a Resident at a hospital for 1 to, sometimes as much as, 7 years. This is the typical scenario.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Typically, students are admitted to medical school only after 4 years of college but there are a few early admissions. Then they spend 4 years in medical school and 3-5 years or more in residencies. They take pre-med courses in college-biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics-but may major in any subject.
Becoming a doctor requires more training than most other jobs. It usually takes at least 11 years to become a doctor: 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school, and 3 years working in a hospital. For some specialties, doctors may have to work in a hospital for up to 8 years before they are trained. In the US, you go to college for 4 years and after that, medical school for another 4 years. In Europe … , after high school, you go directly to medical school, for 6 years. After you finish medical school, you become a resident, training in a specific specialty of medicine
We are well and truly in the middle of “careers expo season”, and at many of the events I attend, there are high school students who are surprised by how long it takes to become a doctor. It’s an absolute minimum of 10 years following entry from high school….. but it’s not unusual to take 12 to 14 years. It takes 3-4 years to become a general practitioner. It takes 4 years to complete the fellowship of The Australasian College of Dermatologists. If you choose to sub-specialize within a particular area, then the vocational training can take around 8 years.
Becoming a doctor requires more training than most other jobs. It usually takes at least 11 years to become a doctor: 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school, and … 3 years working in a hospital. For some specialties, doctors may have to work in a hospital for up to 8 years before they are trained. After Med school (and after you pass your boards - long difficult tests) you are a Doctor but that doesn't mean that you practice anywhere. You can't get a real job without experience. So you get a (low paying) job as a Resident at a hospital for 1 to, sometimes as much as, 7 years. This is the typical scenario.
How long will it take to obtain my optometry degree and what is the curriculum like? The doctor of optometry degree generally takes 4 years to complete. In a typical optometry school, the first two years are spent on basic science-gross anatomy, neuroscience, histology, biochemistry, etc.
Report Abuse. It depends on what kind of doctor you want to be, i want to be a PT and that takes 7 years, so a real doctor will probably be more, look at the college's website that you want to go to and look at the different kinds of doctors and what the classes are you need to become that kind of doctor. Then they spend 4 years in medical school and 3-5 years or more in residencies. They take pre-med courses in college-biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics-but may major in any subject.
Let’s look at how many years of college education it will take to practice in this career path. You will need an undergraduate degree, which takes 4 years, before you attend medical school, which takes another 4 years, before others can call you doctor. 
For the first two years of medical school, students spend their time in laboratories and classrooms, studying topics such as biochemistry, advanced anatomy and physiology, psychology, medical ethics and medico-legal topics. They also learn how to examine patients, take medical histories and diagnose illness. In the second two years of medical school, the student begins to work with patients in a hospital or clinic under the supervision of an experienced physician. Undergraduate Studies. To become a doctor, a student must first complete high school, then go on to college. During the typical four-year undergraduate period, the aspiring doctor will study topics such as anatomy, physiology, biology, chemistry and other college courses necessary for a degree, such as English or math.