Water wheels are classified by the way in which water is applied to the wheel, relative to the wheel's axle. Overshot and pitchback water wheels are suitable where there is a small stream with a height difference of more than 2 meters, often in association with a small reservoir. Cistercian monasteries, in particular, made extensive use of water wheels to power watermills of many kinds. An early example of a very large water wheel is the still extant wheel at the early 13th century Real Monasterio de Nuestra Senora de Rueda, a Cistercian monastery in the Aragon region of Spain.
Undershot wheels and horizontal wheels were the most common choices for tide mills. Since the height of the impoundment area was the height of high tide, the head of water was probably not high enough to power an overshot wheel. Also see separate section on horizontal wheels. 
The First American Factories. Slater Mill, founded in 1793 by Samuel Slater, is now used as a museum dedicated to textile manufacturing. There was more than one kind of frontier and one kind of pioneer in early America. 
Early water mills were mostly used for grinding corn, then from the 13th century for a variety of other purposes, especially for ‘fulling’ or thickening woollen cloth. There was a dramatic growth in the number of mills in the late 18th and early 19th century. A growing population and the rise of the cotton industry meant an increased demand for water power. The new mills were built for cotton spinning and later adapted for other textile processes. 
To mill meant to grind, and that usually meant to grind grain. Thus most watermills were gristmills. As a noun, mill referred to the building where the milling took place, and consequently the water mill was a building where milling was done using the power of water. So-called 'Greek Mills' used water wheels with a horizontal wheel (and vertical shaft). A Roman Mill features a vertical wheel (on a horizontal shaft). Greek style mills are the older and simpler of the two designs, but only operate well with high water velocities and with small diameter millstones.
Chinese water wheels almost certainly have a separate origin, as early ones there were invariably horizontal water wheels. By at least the 1st century AD, the Chinese of the Eastern Han Dynasty were using water wheels to crush grain in mills and to power the piston-bellows in forging iron ore into cast iron. Cistercian monasteries, in particular, made extensive use of water wheels to power watermills of many kinds. An early example of a very large water wheel is the still extant wheel at the early 13th century Real Monasterio de Nuestra Senora de Rueda, a Cistercian monastery in the Aragon region of Spain.
Most water wheels in the United Kingdom and the United States are (or were) vertical wheels rotating about a horizontal axle, but in the Scottish highlands and parts of southern Europe mills often had a horizontal wheel (with a vertical axle). Cistercian monasteries, in particular, made extensive use of water wheels to power watermills of many kinds. An early example of a very large water wheel is the still extant wheel at the early 13th century Real Monasterio de Nuestra Senora de Rueda, a Cistercian monastery in the Aragon region of Spain.
A History of The Mill. T he mills are an important feature of Maynard's development. The earliest saw and grist mills were built in the early 18th century. Two of the earliest mills were the Puffer Mill and the Asa Smith's Mill, which were located on Taylor Brook and Mill Street, respectively. These were the first mills to use the Assabet River for power; therefore, they were very slow and sluggish. The grist and saw mill were then followed by paper mills, which were built starting in 1820. The Mill is easily Maynard's most prominent feature. The complex takes up 11 acres in the middleof what we call downtown. The Mill complex began in 1847 as set of wooden buildings used to manufacture carpets and carpet yarn.
As late as 1850, A. D. Cole, of Sherbrooke, patented a new and improved Sampson wheel which was eventually installed in the Magog mills. Steam, however, was beginning to replace water power. Grist mills were among the first, and most important, mills to be built. The grist mill was the place where people brought their grain and corn to be ground. Most grist mills were built beside streams, where dams were built to regulate water flow, or by a waterfall, where the flow of water could turn a huge paddle wheel which was connected to the mill stones.