Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act was major legislation passed to control air pollution in the United States. The Act was passed in 1963, but important and major amendments were added to the original Act in 1970 and 1990. The Clean Air Act was incorporated into the United States Code as Title 42, Chapter 85. The Clean Air Act, 1963 was a legislation that offered federal research aid, urged the development of state control agencies, and involved the federal government in inter-state pollution issues.
In April 2004, Carl Pope of the Sierra Club told NOW's David Brancaccio, For the first time since the Clean Water Act was passed and enacted under President Nixon, for the first time, EPA reported last year that America's waterways are getting dirtier.. Read the EPA report on water quality. More on This Story: A Brief History of the Clean Water Act. Related Stories: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972  the modern Clean Water Act  established a national commitment to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters.
The modern Clean Air Act, originally passed in 1970, has proven durable and flexible. Since 2007, the act has been used to regulate greenhouse gases that cause climate change, including standards for mobile emissions sources and preconstruction permitting of stationary sources. 
Search. The Clean Air Act, originally passed in 1973 and amended in 1990, is a United States federal law designed to protect human health and the environment from the effects of air pollution. 
The Clean Air Act of 1963 was the first federal legislation regarding air pollution control. It established a federal program within the U.S. Public Health Service and authorized research into techniques for monitoring and controlling air pollution. Under the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.
The Clean Air Act was the first major environmental law in the United States to include a provision for citizen suits. Numerous state and local governments have enacted similar legislation, either implementing federal programs or filling in locally important gaps in federal programs. Under the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.
Congress passed the first legislation to address air pollution with the 1955 Air Pollution Control Act that provided funds to the U.S. Public Health service, but did not formulate pollution regulation. However, the Clean Air Act in 1963, created a research and regulatory program in the U.S. Public Health Service. Under the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.
The Federal Clean Air Act. This page last reviewed May 5, 2015. Background: The Federal Clean Air Act (FCAA) is the federal law passed in 1970, and last amended in 1990, which forms the basis for the national air pollution control effort. 