Not to be confused with Simple File Transfer Protocol, FTP over SSH, or FTPS. In computing, the SSH File Transfer Protocol (also Secure File Transfer Protocol, or SFTP) is a network protocol that provides file access, file transfer, and file management over any reliable data stream. The term SFTP can also refer to Secure file transfer program, a command-line program that implements the client part of this protocol. As an example, the sftp program supplied with OpenSSH implements this.
Overview. The SSH File Transfer Protocol (also known as Secure FTP and SFTP) is a computing network protocol for accessing and managing files on remote file systems. SFTP also allows file transfers between hosts, similar to the SCP protocol. Consequently, you cannot use standard FTP clients to connect to SFTP servers, nor can you use clients that support only SFTP to connect to FTP servers. Graphical clients are available for SFTP, or you can use it from the command line on a Unix or Mac OS X computer.
From the unix man page:  sftp is an interactive file transfer program, similar to ftp, which performs all operations over an encrypted ssh transport. The Abbreviation SFTP nowadays invariably means Secure File Transfer Protocol, however there is another protocol with the same abbreviation (Simple File Transfer Protocol). All occurrences of the term SFTP on this website (www.radinks.com) refers to Secure File Transfer Protocol. In FTP all data is passed back and forth between the client and server without the use of encryption. This makes it possible for an evesdropper to listen in and retrieve your confidential information including login details. With SFTP all the data is encrypted before it is sentsent across the network.
FTP is an acronym for File Transfer Protocol. As the name suggests, FTP is used to transfer files between computers on a network. You can use FTP to exchange files between computer accounts, transfer files between an account and a desktop computer, or access online software archives.
This protocol assumes that it is run over a secure channel, such as SSH, that the server has already authenticated the client, and that the identity of the client user is available to the protocol. The term SFTP can also refer to Secure file transfer program, a command-line program that implements the client part of this protocol. As an example, the sftp program supplied with OpenSSH implements this.
SFTP, which stands for SSH File Transfer Protocol, or Secure File Transfer Protocol, is a separate protocol packaged with SSH that works in a similar way over a secure connection. The advantage is the ability to leverage a secure connection to transfer files and traverse the filesystem on both the local and remote system. In almost all cases, SFTP is preferable to FTP because of its underlying security features and ability to piggy-back on an SSH
Command-line SFTP. You can use SFTP from the command line on Unix and Mac OS X computers. To start an SFTP session, at the command prompt, enter: For example, if your username is dvader, to connect to your account on the host empire.gov, enter: Enter your password when prompted. Consequently, you cannot use standard FTP clients to connect to SFTP servers, nor can you use clients that support only SFTP to connect to FTP servers. Graphical clients are available for SFTP, or you can use it from the command line on a Unix or Mac OS X computer.
It is the standard data transmission protocol for use with the SSH2 protocol. WISE-FTP implements a reliable and user-friendly version of the client side of this protocol. The SFTP protocol's main purpose is to transfer data, but it is also used to obtain general access to the FTP server's file system. The SFTP protocol runs on a secure channel-no clear text passwords or file data are transferred. To access this FTP server, users need access to the Internet (via a modem, ISDN, DSL or a local network) and an FTP client program (such as WISE-FTP). Users are advised to use the SFTP protocol to ensure that the file transmission will be secure.
The SSH File Transfer Protocol (also known as Secure FTP and SFTP) is a computing network protocol for accessing and managing files on remote file systems. Consequently, you cannot use standard FTP clients to connect to SFTP servers, nor can you use clients that support only SFTP to connect to FTP servers. Graphical clients are available for SFTP, or you can use it from the command line on a Unix or Mac OS X computer.
SFTP clients are programs that use SSH to access, manage, and transfer files. SFTP clients are functionally similar to FTP clients, but they use different protocols. Consequently, you cannot use standard FTP clients to connect to SFTP servers, nor can you use clients that support only SFTP to connect to FTP servers. Graphical clients are available for SFTP, or you can use it from the command line on a Unix or Mac OS X computer.