Usually, the back of the printer has either a rear access door or a two-sided printing accessory. Removing a rear access panel. 1  Locate the knob or access tab on the back of the printer by or on the panel itself. 2  If it's a knob, move it to the Unlocked position. 3  Remove the panel and carefully pull out the jammed paper. 4  Locate and clear away any small bits of paper that remain. 5  Replace and secure the rear panel. 1 Locate the knob or access tab on the back of the printer by or on the panel itself. 2  If it's a knob, move it to the Unlocked position. 3  Remove the panel and carefully pull out the jammed paper. 4  Locate and clear away any small bits of paper that remain. 5  Replace and secure the rear panel.
Turn off the printer. Remove any paper trays. Inspect them for wrinkled or damaged paper. Open any other doors that give access to the printer's paper path and to the toner or ink cartridge. If necessary, remove the toner or ink cartridge. Place it in a bag or away from light to avoid damaging it. Tips & Warnings. 1  If you get toner or ink on your clothing, wipe it off with a dry cloth and then launder the clothing in cold water. 2  Watch out for loose toner or ink on jammed paper, and do your best to avoid spilling it on yourself or
Warnings. 1  Parts of a laser printer get hot enough to burn you. 2  Do not stick your hands or fingers in parts of the printer that you might not be able to get them out of. 3  Do not cut out the paper. 4  Never push or pull too hard, either on the paper or on the various doors and latches of your printer. 3. Pull out the print cartridge, if you do not see the paper jam. In a laser printer, one of the front or top covers will usually expose the print cartridge. If you have not yet found the paper, pull out the cartridge carefully.
1. Put the paper you want to dispose of in a mixer grinder or a blender. Also add some water to the blender or grinder. 1  It is best to use an old blender for this, not your good one. Burn the paper in a metal barrel, on a clear surface such as concrete, to avoid catching the container or anything not in the bin on fire. 1  Make sure you are allowed to burn paper in your city, county, or township. 2  Do not burn papers in your wastepaper basket inside.
Locate and remove any paper stuck in the loading tray. 1  Remove any loose paper in the loading tray. 2  Press the Resume button on the front of the printer. 3  If the paper jam is cleared, move to Ensure the printer carriage can move freely. 4  If not, continue to the next step. 1 Locate the knob or access tab on the back of the printer by or on the panel itself. 2  If it's a knob, move it to the Unlocked position. 3  Remove the panel and carefully pull out the jammed paper. 4  Locate and clear away any small bits of paper that remain. 5  Replace and secure the rear panel.
1. Burn the paper. This method is the best way to get rid of important papers with sensitive information. Burn the paper in a metal barrel, on a clear surface such as concrete, to avoid catching the container or anything not in the bin on fire. 1  Make sure you are allowed to burn paper in your city, county, or township. 2  Do not burn papers in your wastepaper basket inside.
Instructions. Click Start, then click your user name. Browse through your computer until you find the image or document that you want to print. Double-click the file, click File then Print to load the printing options. Click the Paper Size drop-down menu and select your new paper size. Click Custom if you are not using a standard preset. Click Print.. 
Remove the print head and try again. If the paper is still stuck, follow the instructions for your printer model to remove the print head or the ink cartridges. Gently tug out torn paper scraps, or grasp intact crumpled paper with both hands and pull gently downward. 3. Pull out the print cartridge, if you do not see the paper jam. In a laser printer, one of the front or top covers will usually expose the print cartridge. If you have not yet found the paper, pull out the cartridge carefully.
3. Gently move print head sideways to free paper. In an inkjet printer, the print head is the component that moves across the paper, expelling ink from the attached cartridges. If the print head has not moved to the side of the printer, it is probably stuck against the paper. Gently try to move the print head sideways. 3. Pull out the print cartridge, if you do not see the paper jam. In a laser printer, one of the front or top covers will usually expose the print cartridge. If you have not yet found the paper, pull out the cartridge carefully.