Dose of Ambien for Insomnia. For women, the standard recommended dosage of Ambien is 5 mg at bedtime. For men, the recommended dosage is 5 to 10 mg at bedtime. For people who are taking other medicines that affect the brain, have liver disease, or are older, the recommended starting dose may be Ambien 5 mg.
A. The recommended maximum daily dose, per manufacturer and FDA, is Ambien 10 mg per day. The medication is rapidly absorbed in the body and eliminated over a 2.5 hr time period. This means that the body will not accumulate any of the medication. She would probably experience the side effects quicker than usual. It is important to take the medication just before bedtime. It is important to take this medication according to the recommended guidelines, otherwise discontinue use. Again, the maximum daily dose should not exceed 10 mg per day for the regular Ambien
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The FDA maximum dose for Ambien (zolpidem) is 10 mg. For Ambien CR (zolpidem extended-release) the maximum dose is 12.5 mg. Ambien comes in 5 mg and 10 mg tablets. Ambien CR comes in 6.25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets. According to the official Ambien and Ambien CR prescribing information: The recommended dose for adults is 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime
Dosing and Administration – The normal zolpidem dose for treatment of insomnia in adults is 10 milligrams immediate release or 12.5 milligrams extended release taken orally immediately before bedtime. Dosing should be individualized to patient response. Therapy should be limited to seven to 10 days. In reality, insomnia patients are often long-term users of zolpidem; few experience adverse effects. While the manufacturer recommends a maximum adult dose of 10 milligrams (immediate release), studies have found 10 to 20 milligrams effective for insomnia in healthy adults. There are no data on the effectiveness or safety of zolpidem in children under 18 years of ag
The FDA is asking doctors to lower the standard dosage of immediate-release medication they prescribe to women from 10 milligrams to five milligrams. For women taking extended-release sleeping pills, doses should be cut from 12.5 milligrams to 6.25 milligrams, the FDA said. 
Dosage In Adults. Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. The recommended initial dose is 5 mg for women and either 5 or 10 mg for men, taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7-8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. If the 5 mg dose is not effective, the dose can be increased to 10 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels following use of the 10 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. The total dose of AMBIEN should not exceed 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime.
The drug agency told manufacturers that the recommended dose for women should be lowered to 5 milligrams from 10 for immediate-release products like Ambien, Edluar and Zolpimist. Doses for extended-release products should be lowered to 6.25 milligrams from 12.5, the agency said. 