Noun. 1. broth-liquid in which meat and vegetables are simmered; used as a basis for e.g. soups or sauces; she made gravy with a base of beef stock. stock. soup-liquid food especially of meat or fish or vegetable stock often containing pieces of solid food. 2. A thin, clear soup based on stock, to which rice, barley, meat, or vegetables may be added. 3. A liquid containing nutrients for culturing microorganisms: inoculated the broth with bacteria.
Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (broth is a kind of...): soup (liquid food especially of meat or fish or vegetable stock often containing pieces of solid food). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of broth): barley water (used to feed infants). Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (broth is a kind of...): soup (liquid food especially of meat or fish or vegetable stock often containing pieces of solid food). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of broth): barley water (used to feed infants). bouillon (a clear seasoned broth).
• BROTH (noun). The noun BROTH has 2 senses: 1. liquid in which meat and vegetables are simmered; used as a basis for e.g. soups or sauces. 2. a thin soup of meat or fish or vegetable stock. Familiarity information: BROTH used as a noun is rare. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (broth is a kind of...): soup (liquid food especially of meat or fish or vegetable stock often containing pieces of solid food). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of broth): barley water (used to feed infants). bouillon (a clear seasoned broth).
1. The water in which meat, fish, or vegetables have been boiled; stock. 2. A thin, clear soup based on stock, to which rice, barley, meat, or vegetables may be added. 3. A liquid containing nutrients for culturing microorganisms: inoculated the broth with bacteria.
broth. 1. a thin soup of concentrated meat or fish stock. 2. water that has been boiled with meat, fish, vegetables, or grains; stock. 3. a liquid medium containing nutrients suitable for culturing microorganisms. [before 1000; Middle English, Old English]. broth′y, adj. 2. A thin, clear soup based on stock, to which rice, barley, meat, or vegetables may be added. 3. A liquid containing nutrients for culturing microorganisms: inoculated the broth with bacteria.
Hypernyms (broth is a kind of...): soup (liquid food especially of meat or fish or vegetable stock often containing pieces of solid food). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of broth): liquor; pot likker; pot liquor (the liquid in which vegetables or meat have be cooked). Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (broth is a kind of...): soup (liquid food especially of meat or fish or vegetable stock often containing pieces of solid food). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of broth): barley water (used to feed infants). bouillon (a clear seasoned broth).
Broth. Broth is a liquid food preparation, typically consisting of either water or an already flavored stock, in which bones, meat, fish, cereal grains, or vegetables have been simmered. Broth is used as a basis for other edible liquids such as soup, gravy, or sauce. It can be eaten alone or with garnish. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: broth (Noun). Water in which food (meat or vegetable etc) has been boiled. broth (Noun). A soup made from broth and other ingredients such as vegetables, herbs or diced meat. Origin: broth, from broþ (broth). Akin to breowan.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Broth is a liquid food preparation, typically consisting of water, in which bones, meat, fish, cereal grains, or vegetables have been simmered. Broth is used as a basis for other edible liquids such as soup, gravy, or sauce. In Britain, a broth is defined as a soup in which there are solid pieces of meat or fish, along with some vegetables. A broth is usually made with a stock or plain water as its base, with meat or fish added while being brought to a boil, and vegetables added later.