The P in NPK on a fertilizer bag stands for phosphorus. It corresponds to the second number on the fertilizer's label. Phosphorus is essential for many aspects of healthy, attractive plants, including flower formation, root development and fruit production. A trip to a garden center will leave you facing shelves of fertilizer, or plant food, choices. Although they have different uses, each plant food should have the nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium (NPK) content on its label as a series of three numbers, such as 10-10-10.
Nitrogen. Nitrogen is the N of NPK and applies to the first number listed on a fertilizer's label. Nitrogen gives plants a boost to produce leaves and new growth. On a cellular level, nitrogen provides much of plants' energy by being a component of proteins and chlorophyll. A trip to a garden center will leave you facing shelves of fertilizer, or plant food, choices. Although they have different uses, each plant food should have the nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium (NPK) content on its label as a series of three numbers, such as 10-10-10.
The answer is in the translation of NPK and what that means to plants. NPK is an abbreviation for nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium, the three main nutrients that stim … ulate plant growth. The N of NPK relates to nitrogen, the primary nutrient that stimulates the growth of leaf and stem. Turf grass loves nitrogen because it's nothing but leaf and stem. Fertilizers blended for this purpose always have a very high nitrogen content and low phosphorous and potassium counts. There are different percentages of NPK fertilizers: For example some of them are 20-20-20 which means 20% Nitrogen 20% phosphorous and 20% Potas There are other perc … entages also for example 15-15-15 or 10-20-10 or ... Base on the plants need different percentages are being used.
Labeling of macronutrient fertilizers [edit]. Macronutrient fertilizers are generally labeled with an NPK analysis, based on the relative content of the chemical elements nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and Potassium (K) that are commonly used in fertilizers. 
So now that you know what the numbers on fertilizer mean, you need to know why NPK is important to your plants. All plants need nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium to grow. Without enough of any one of these nutrients, a plant will fail. What Do the Numbers on Fertilizer Mean? The three numbers on fertilizer represents the value of the three macro-nutrients used by plants. These macro-nutrients are nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) or NPK for short. The higher the number, the more concentrated the nutrient is in the fertilizer. For example, numbers on fertilizer listed as 20-5-5 has four times more nitrogen in it than phosphorus and potassium
Definition: NPK stands for nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, the three nutrients that compose complete fertilizers. You'll encounter NPK when reading the contents printed on bags of fertilizer. The description of the fertilizer may not expressly say NPK (it may simply be implied), but you will at least see a series of three numbers, which correspond, respectively, to the nitrogen content, phosphorus content and potassium content of that
Compost contains Nitrogen, Phosphorous, Potassium, and a great abundance of other trace elements that will benefit your plants. It is clear that Nitrogen, Phosphorous, and Potassium are not necessarily the most important elements you need for your plants to grow well. Organic composts and composted manure are excellent sources of all nutrients plants need to grow, including NPK. Professional gardeners who use chemicals and organic gardeners agree that using compost is one of the best things you can do to feed your plants are feed them the nutrients they need.
Gardeners toss around the term NPK a lot. You've certainly noticed these letters on the front of the box or bag of fertilizer while in a garden center or nursery, right? It doesn't matter whether the fertilizer is organic or inorganic, the garden-scientists like to measure certain key ingredients in these things. 