Darrel /dar-rel/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Darrel) is pronounced DARE-el. It is of Old English and Old French origin, and the meaning of Darrel is open; from Airelle. Comes from the Norman French word d'Airelle, meaning
Meaning of Darrell. English name. In English, the name Darrell means-Darling, dearly loved, from the Old english deorling.. Other origins for the name Darrell include-English, French, French. The name Darrell is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Darling, dearly loved, from the Old english deorling. Origin-English.
Darrell is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Da-rrell. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 857 in baby name popularity for boys with 256 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name.iew the Darrell Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Darrell has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Darrell to other names. Variants of the name Darrell include Darell, Dariel, Dariell, Darrel.
The meaning of name Darrell, origin of name Darrell, baby name Darrell. Discover for free which first names would suit you or your baby ! Etymology: From an English surname which was derived from Norman French d'Airelle, originally denoting one who came from Airelle in France.
The name Darrell is of English origin, and it means From Airelle . It's a name commonly given to both boys and girls. Dimebag Darrell is a musician and songwriter specializing in heavy metal, groove metal, thrash metal, and southern metal music.
French Meaning: The name Darrell is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Darrell is: From a French surname and place name meaning 'Open.' Dates back to the eleventh century as both surname and given name. American Meaning:The name Darrell is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Darrell is: From a French surname and place name meaning 'Open.' Dates back to the eleventh century as both surname and given name. English Meaning:The name Darrell is an English baby name.
Darrell is a given name derived from an English surname, which was derived from Norman-French d'Airelle, originally denoting one who came from Airelle in France. There are no longer any towns in France called Airelle, but airelle is the French word for huckleberry. Darrell may refer to:
Darrell /dar-rell/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used less regularly as girls' name Darrell). The meaning of the name Darrell is open; from Airelle. Darrell is a variant transcription of Darrel (Old English, Old French). Darrell is also a variant of Darryl (English, Old French). See also Darence.arrell is a very prominent first name for males (#165 out of 1220, Top 13%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#17710 out of 150436, Top 12%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Darrell for boys.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.iew the Darrell Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Darrell has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Darrell to other names. Variants of the name Darrell include Darell, Dariel, Dariell, Darrel.