Overhead Definition. Overhead is the expense your business incurs that is not directly related to materials or labor. It includes payroll for employees not directly involved in producing your products, such as the advertising department and clerical workers.
The allocation of certain overhead costs to produced goods is required under the rules of various accounting frameworks. In many businesses, the amount of overhead to be allocated is substantially greater than the direct cost of goods, so the overhead allocation method can be of some importance. There are two types of overhead, which are administrative overhead and manufacturing overhead.
Your cost pool for fixed overhead includes machine depreciation, utility costs, and salary costs for your security guard. The annual budgeted costs total $120,000, and you have 20,000 total machine hours budgeted. Use these formulas and these numbers to compute your cost allocation rate:
When cost accounting, the more accurately you allocate fixed overhead costs, the more accurately your product’s total costs are reflected. If total cost is accurate, you can add a profit and calculate an accurate sale price.
DEFINITION of 'Overhead'. An accounting term that refers to all ongoing business expenses not including or related to direct labor, direct materials or third-party expenses that are billed directly to customers. Overhead must be paid for on an ongoing basis, regardless of whether a company is doing a high or low volume of business.
10,000 Machine hours. The result is an overhead rate of $10.00 per machine hour. If the basis of allocation does not appear correct for certain types of overhead costs, it may make more sense to split the overhead into two or more overhead cost pools, and allocate each cost pool using a different basis of allocation.
You need to allocate the costs of manufacturing overhead to any inventory items that are classified as work-in-process or finished goods. Overhead is not allocated to raw materials inventory, since the operations giving rise to overhead costs only impact work-in-process and finished goods inventory.