Lactic acid fermentation does not occur in the mitochondria. It occurs in the cytoplasm of the cell and occurs directly after glycolysis if oxygen is not present.
Confidence votes 14.2K. Fermentation occurs because sugar contains energy. Microorganizism can break down sugars and extract some of the energy using fermentation in the absence of oxygen. Your body can do the same thing. First a carbon dioxide compound is removed from the sugar leaving a radical. A microorganiizism turns the radical into alcohol.
Lactic acid fermentation breaks down the pyruvate into lactic acid. It occurs in the muscles of animals when they need energy faster than the blood can supply oxygen. It also occurs in some bacteria and some fungi. It is this type of bacteria that converts lactose into lactic acid in yogurt, giving it its sour taste.
Fermentation occurs because sugar contains energy. Microorganizism can break down sugars and extract some of the energy using fermentation in the absence of oxygen. Your body can do the same thing. First a carbon dioxide compound is removed from the sugar leaving a radical. A microorganiizism turns the radical into alcohol.
Fermentation occurs in fruits, bacteria, yeasts, fungi, as well as in mammalian muscle. Yeasts were discovered to have connection with fermentation as observed by the French chemist, Louis Pasteur. Pasteur originally defined fermentation as respiration without air.
Fermentation occurs when yeast and bacteria inside the dough convert carbohydrates to carbon dioxide causing gas bubbles to form, which has a leavening effect on dough.
Lactic acid fermentation occurs in the absence of oxygen (it's anaerobic). Basically, it's glycolysis (the breakdown of a sugar-most of the time glucose is used as an exampl … e) to produce 2 ATP and 2NADH (NAD+ and 2 electrons) and 2 pyruvate molecules in the end.
In lactic acid fermentation, pyruvate is reduced to lactic acid. This occurs in cells such as our muscles when we're exercising. In alcoholic fermentation, pyruvate is reduced to alcohol and releases carbon dioxide.