Definition. A membrane is a thin layer that may or may not allow particles to pass through it. Permeable is defined as a membrane that can be crossed by particles, ions, or water. Semi permeable means that some particles, ions, or water can cross the membrane. The cell membrane is semi permeable-meaning some particles can cross the membrane while others may not. It is made up of layers that are both attracted to water-the phosphate bilayers and layers that are hydrophobic (fatty acid layers). Outside of the cell water makes the phosphate layers line up.
All cells are enclosed with a cell membrane. A selectively permeable cell membrane is one that allows certain molecules or ions to pass through it by means of active or passive transport. Active transport processes require the cell to expend energy to move the materials, while passive transport can be done without using cellular energy. The most common example is the phospholipid bilayer cell membrane that surrounds every cell in our bodies. Another example of a selectively permeable membrane is the inner membranes of an egg. All cells in our body are surrounded by a phospholipid bilayer.
Report Abuse. a semipermeable membrane is important because the organellles in the cell dont just want anything coming into the cell. The semipermeable membrane selects what goes in and out of the cell. 
3. One important feature of plasma membranes is that they are selectively permeable. Selectively permeable means that substances can pass through the cell membrane but other substances can’t. Sometimes this selectivity is passive. It does not require the cell to do any work. 
Summary. The cell membrane is semi permeable-meaning some particles can cross the membrane while others may not. It is made up of layers that are both attracted to water-the phosphate bilayers and layers that are hydrophobic (fatty acid layers). Outside of the cell water makes the phosphate layers line up.
The cytoplasm of a cell is surrounded by a cell membrane or plasma membrane. The membrane is said to be 'semi-permeable', in that it can either let a substance pass thr … ough freely, pass through to a limited extent or not pass through at all. the membrane is somewhat effective at letting fluids through. Answer by Onaida Whitney. Confidence votes 49. the cell membrane allows only certain substances to pass through it. It is considered semipermeable because, it allows non charged particals to pass through.
noun. A membrane that is selectively permeable, i.e. being permeable to only certain molecules and not to all molecules. Supplement. An example of such membrane is the cell membrane wherein it allows passage of only certain types of molecules by diffusion and occasionally by facilitated diffusion. Synonyms: 1  selectively-permeable membrane. 2  partially-permeable membrane. 3  differentially-permeable membrane.
Osmosis is the movement of water across the semi permeable cell membrane. The cell membrane has phospholipid bilayers. These layers are made up of glycerol, two fatty acids, and a phosphate. The phosphate part of the cell membrane is attracted to water but the fatty acid part of the membrane is not. The cell membrane is semi permeable-meaning some particles can cross the membrane while others may not. It is made up of layers that are both attracted to water-the phosphate bilayers and layers that are hydrophobic (fatty acid layers). Outside of the cell water makes the phosphate layers line up.