CPU. You may have heard the term clock speed.. It refers to the speed of your computer's central processing unit or CPU. Often called the brain of the computer, the CPU processes the instructions that programmers write when they create applications. Hardware makers measure a CPU's clock speed using a unit called gigahertz. A CPU running at 3GHz processes data faster than one running at 1GHz. The speed at which data flows from the CPU to applications also affects the computer's speed. Computer makers call that the bus speed.
GPU Processor Clock Speed. The greater the clock speed, such as 2 GHz vs. 3 GHz does not automatically mean that the later graphics card will have twice the performance. Sometimes 3 GHz clock speeds are slower than 2 GHz if they are based on an inferior GPU architecture.
It is used more than just for games. Without the graphics card, there is no output to your monitor. Back in the old days, we used to call these things video cards, which made it more obvious as to what these things do. Now different graphics cards have different capabilities. Some graphics cards, as an example, cannot support games that uses DirectX8 and above. Some graphics cards support multiple monitors; others do not. Some graphics cards can do full-scene antialiasing; others do not. The capabilities of the different cards can vary; and how well they do it also varies. Wikipedia has a brief description on what it does: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphics_ca... 
ponsulak/iStock/Getty Images. Dozens of factors affect how your network performs, from the type of hardware you use, to your router settings, to your Internet service provider's hardware. Some of them are obvious, such as the speed of the Internet plan you purchased; upgrading will increase your overall speed. Some are often overlooked, however. 
As to your problem, graphics will not affect the load times of internet pages on your PC, it is a combination between your net speeds, if you're connecting to your router wirelessly or not, and how the servers on their end are operating. Graphics? that's your internet, dude-Get your PCI-E card a new antenna or install a USB Wireless adapter, I got my PC yesterday and using the wireless adapter, sped up to 20Mbps from 4...You also have to make sure nothing is blocking the wireless receiver, especially metal objects.
The graphics card's hardware directly affects its speed. These are the hardware specifications that most affect the card's speed and the units in which they are measured: 1  GPU clock speed (MHz). 2  Size of the memory bus (bits). 3  Amount of available memory (MB). 4  Memory clock rate (MHz). 5  Memory bandwidth (GB/s). 6  RAMDAC speed (MHz). ­ The computer's CPU and motherboard also play a part, since a very fast graphics card can't compensate for a motherboard's inability to deliver data quickly. Similarly, the card's connection to the motherboard and the speed at which it can get instructions from the CPU affect its performance. For more information on graphics cards and related topics, check out the links on the following page
Graphic Card. The graphics card can increase the performance of a computer, especially if the system is frequently used to play games or watch videos. Graphics cards that are specifically designed to handle high-quality images can be bought at many electronics stores and separately installed. 
1 Internet browser: The Internet browser you use may impact your speed. 2  Settings: For the best results, you must run the Verizon Speed Optimizer. 3  Programs Running: The number of programs running on your computer can affect your computer’s performance. Internet Speed Factors. 1  Components within your computer, such as processor speed, the amount of available memory, operating system, and computer configuration variables. 2  The number of applications that are running at the same time.
Considerations. Other computer components also affect its speed. If you run 3-D games or video editing programs, your graphic card's speed may become important. The speed at which memory moves data around also affects the computer's speed. Your CD or DVD drive also determines how long it takes your computer to retrieve data from those storage mediums. Hardware makers measure a CPU's clock speed using a unit called gigahertz. A CPU running at 3GHz processes data faster than one running at 1GHz. The speed at which data flows from the CPU to applications also affects the computer's speed. Computer makers call that the bus speed.