Both the Asiatic black bear and the sun bear are listed as Vulnerable on the Red List of Threatened Animals published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Bears are farmed for bile in China, North Korea, Laos, Vietnam, and Myanmar. Bile bears, sometimes called battery bears, are bears kept in captivity to harvest their bile, a digestive fluid produced by the liver and stored in the gall bladder.
Answer by Beth Cobbold. Confidence votes 107. Moon bears can be found in South and South-east Asia, northern China, eastern Russia and Japan. And they dont live on the moon the reason they are called moon bears is because they have a white patch on their chest that is shaped like a moon.
Moon bears are under threat, due to deforestation and loss of habitat, plus they suffer terrible exploitation at human hands. Caught from the wild, thousands of Moon bears are kept in cruel bear ‘farms’ to be painfully ‘milked’ for their bile. 
A bile bear in a crush cage on Huizhou Farm, China. Bile bears, sometimes called battery bears, are bears kept in captivity to harvest their bile, a digestive fluid produced by the liver and stored in the gall bladder.
Moon Bear. 1  The moon bear is also known as the Asiatic, Tibetan, and Himalayan black bear. 2  Their habitat includes Southeast Asia, southern China, and bordering countries. 3  It is also found as far north as Korea and Japan. The moon bear has medium length jet black fur that is shaggy in the front and sides. Sometime their color is dark brown to chocolate. They display a magnificent crescent moon pattern on their chest that stands out against their dark body. Sometimes the area around their muzzle and near their nose is white.
1 The moon bear is also known as the Asiatic, Tibetan, and Himalayan black bear. 2  Their habitat includes Southeast Asia, southern China, and bordering countries. 3  It is also found as far north as Korea and Japan. The moon bear has medium length jet black fur that is shaggy in the front and sides. Sometime their color is dark brown to chocolate. They display a magnificent crescent moon pattern on their chest that stands out against their dark body. Sometimes the area around their muzzle and near their nose is white.
Published on June 6, 2010 in Nature Facts by Interesting Facts. Moon bears are the Asiatic black bears which are called so because of the ‘crescent moon’ found on their chest. Their weights vary from one hundred and ten pounds to four hundred and fifty pounds. Reply. Did u know moon bears were named moon bears because they have a crescent moon shape on their chest, cool X3. lol. Reply. moon bears are gorgeouse animal,its so cruel what these people do to them maybe we should lock them in tiny cages and beat them see how they would like it.
Asian black bears are black and have a light brown muzzle. They are white on the chin, and have a distinct white patch on the chest, which sometimes has the shape of a V. Their ears are bell shaped, proportionately longer than those of other bears, and stick out sideways from the head. The tail is 11 cm (4.3 in) long. 
Moon bears can be found in South and South-east Asia, northern China, eastern Russia and Japan. And they dont live on the moon the reason they are called moon bears is because … they have a white patch on their chest that is shaped like a moon. 7 people found this useful. Don Dfoofnik. 