Polypropylene (PP) is a linear hydrocarbon polymer, expressed as CnH2n. PP, like polyethylene (see HDPE, L/LLDPE) and polybutene (PB), is a polyolefin or saturated polymer. Polypropylene is one of those most versatile polymers available with applications, both as a plastic and as a fibre, in virtually all of the plastics end-use markets. Contents.1 Development.
Noun. 1. polypropylene-a polymer of propylene used as a thermoplastic molding material. polypropene. plastic-generic name for certain synthetic or semisynthetic materials that can be molded or extruded into objects or films or filaments or used for making e.g. coatings and adhesives. 
Most commercial polypropylene is isotactic and has an intermediate level of crystallinity between that of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) and high-density polyethylene (HDPE). Polypropylene is normally tough and flexible, especially when copolymerized with ethylene. When the methyl groups in a polypropylene chain exhibit no preferred orientation, the polymers are called atactic. Atactic polypropylene is an amorphous rubbery material. It can be produced commercially either with a special type of supported Ziegler-Natta catalyst or with some metallocene catalysts.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Polypropylene is a plastic polymer with the chemical formula C3H6. It is used in many different settings, both in industry and in consumer goods, and it can be used both as a structural plastic and as a fiber. This plastic is often used for food containers, particularly those that need to be dishwasher safe. Polypropylene is not as sturdy as polyethylene, but it has benefits that make it the better choice in some situations. One of these situations is creating hinges from a plastic, such as a plastic lid on a travel mug.
Polypropylene (PP) is a thermoplastic. It is a linear structure based on the monomer CnH2n. It is manufactured from propylene gas in presence of a catalyst such as titanium chloride. Beside PP is a by-product of oil refining processes. Most polypropylene used is highly crystalline and geometrically regular (i.e. isotactic) opposite to amorphous thermoplastics, such as polystyrene, PVC, polyamide, etc., which radicals are placed radomly (i.e. atactic).
Propene undergoes addition polymerization to produce poly(propene), often known as polypropylene, which is one of the most versatile thermoplastic polymers available commercially. 
Polypropylene, or 'polypro', has been used for the fabrication of cold-weather base layers, such as long-sleeve shirts or long underwear. Polypropylene is also used in warm-weather clothing, in which it transports sweat away from the skin. When the methyl groups in a polypropylene chain exhibit no preferred orientation, the polymers are called atactic. Atactic polypropylene is an amorphous rubbery material. It can be produced commercially either with a special type of supported Ziegler-Natta catalyst or with some metallocene catalysts.
Polypropylene overview Transcript. Polypropylene or PP is a thermoplastic material that is mainly sold in resin pellets to processors who then shape it into a wide variety of products including car bumpers, oil containment booms and medicine caps.
Plastics such as polypropylene and polyethylente can be made to biodegrade in landfills, if an additive is put into them at the time of manufacture. In landfills, it contributes to methane capture, which saves the equivalent to the fuel used in 14 million cars a year. Polypropylene is not as sturdy as polyethylene, but it has benefits that make it the better choice in some situations. One of these situations is creating hinges from a plastic, such as a plastic lid on a travel mug.