Current goes through the primary circuit in an ignition coil and then to some sort of switching system breaks the connection when a cylinder's spark plug is meant to fire. Best Answer: First, to understand what the capacitor (condensor) does in the ignition system, it is necessary to understand how an ignition system works.
Back. Technical Talk  Ignition Condensors. Basically the function of a condenser in a coil ignition circuit is to reduce the spark at the contact points as they open in the distributor and thus minimise burning and pitting of the points. 
There is some misconception about ignition coil polarity and how important it may be (or not). For most people it is only a matter of lack of knowledge, perhaps followed by getting some bad information. How the coil works (with points and condenser) to create a high voltage spark is covered in another article. This article is a discussion about electrical polarity of the coil and spark plugs. The ignition coil is essentially a low voltage to high voltage transformer with about 100 to 1 ratio of windings and voltage. 
The wire that goes from the ignition coil to the distributor and the high voltage wires that go from the distributor to each of the spark plugs are called spark plug wires or high tension leads. Originally, every ignition coil system required mechanical contact breaker points, and a capacitor (condenser). Much smaller coils are used with one coil for each spark plug or one coil serving two spark plugs (for example two coils in a four-cylinder engine, or three coils in a six-cylinder engine). A large ignition coil puts out about 40 kV, and a small one such as from a lawn mower puts out about 15 kV.
An ignition coil (also called a spark coil) is an induction coil in an automobile 's ignition system which transforms the battery's low voltage to the thousands of volts needed to create an electric spark in the spark plugs to ignite the fuel. Much smaller coils are used with one coil for each spark plug or one coil serving two spark plugs (for example two coils in a four-cylinder engine, or three coils in a six-cylinder engine). A large ignition coil puts out about 40 kV, and a small one such as from a lawn mower puts out about 15 kV.
Points/Condenser Ignition Explained. The ignition is one of the four vital systems in your engine's operation. Along with fueling, cooling and lubrication, it would simply not be possible to run your engine without it. Its purpose is to ignite the air/fuel mixture in the engine's cylinders and begin the power stroke. 2. The high-tension (secondary) circuit, which delivers the spark to the relevant spark plug. The Ignition Coil The heart of the ignition system is the ignition coil. It is in this sealed unit that the high-voltage electrical pulse necessary to create an ignition spark is generated. The ignition coil contains two separate coils of wire arranged concentrically (one inside the other)
An ignition condenser is no longer used in today's cars, the condenser was mainly used in cars from pre 1975. Here is a link showing how they work and how to troubleshoot them: http://www.ehow.com/list_5988660_signs-i... good luck...... Best Answer: First, to understand what the capacitor (condensor) does in the ignition system, it is necessary to understand how an ignition system works.
The principles were the same and it simplified the ignition system. The basic ignition system consists of the ignition coil, points, condenser, distributor and spark plugs. A ballast resistor may also be included in this system. When all of these parts are connected and working properly, we will get the spark the engine needs to run. 