Best Answer: I am not sure where you are from, the cost will vary a little in different locations. Around here, if you get one from a private breeder, such as out of the newspaper or bulletin board, they range from $35-$60. If you get one from a pet store, they range from $80-$120. They price range also depends on the color or mutation. Plain grays are the cheapest. The pearls are the next cheapest.
The cost of owning a small pet bird can add up quickly and can be much more than people expect. Depending upon the species, the cost of the bird itself can be fairly inexpensive, or reach $1,000 or more. Many people consider getting a bird as a pet since they feel most birds cost less and take less of a time commitment than a dog or a cat. This may be true if you get a canary that stays in the cage all the time and all you do is feed him.
1 There are 350 different species of parrots. 2  Prices vary greatly on these colorful, noisy and sociable birds. 3  Macaws run $450-$800 and also are found in many bold colors. 4  Common African Grays can live 50-60 years and cost $230-$850 each. Shopping for a pet bird: 1  Cages should be limited to a single species per cage. 2  Feed costs about $50 per year for small breeds. 3  Those wanting to create an aviary--a large outdoor structure used to house many birds together--find that finches and canaries live well together in the large units. 4  The Avian Welfare Resource Center provides an online ...
1 A small aviary costs $500-$1,000. 2  Large aviaries can cost tens of thousands depending on the architecture and materials used. 3  The Avian Welfare Resource Center provides an online list by state of bird rescue groups. Shopping for a pet bird: 1  Cages should be limited to a single species per cage. 2  Feed costs about $50 per year for small breeds. 3  Those wanting to create an aviary--a large outdoor structure used to house many birds together--find that finches and canaries live well together in the large units. 4  The Avian Welfare Resource Center provides an online ...
Prepare for the cost of owning a cockatiel. The average cost of a cockatiel is only $80-100, but the start-up costs for its cage, food and equipment can easily reach $300. Also remember that the cockatiel will need food and toys, and at least one veterinary exam per year. Purchase a cage and equipment for your cockatiel. Cockatiels need a lot of room to exercise, so you want the biggest cage you can accommodate. The minimum recommended cage size for a single cockatiel is 24 x 24 x 24.
Annual cost : $185 (plus unforeseen vet costs). Total lifetime cost (avg. lifespan of parakeet: 15-18 years) : $2,885 - $3,440. A pet bird doesn’t have to cost a lot, but medical expenses can quickly escalate if you’re not familiar with how to care for Sunny. Last year, bird owners spent an average of $190 on surgery, according to the American Pet Products Association
1 Since there are so many varieties of cockatiel, the price can widely range. 2  The age of the bird will also play a large factor as well. 3  Plan on spending anywhere from $25 to as much as $150 or more for this type of bird. 4  This is not going to include the necessary start up items to properly take care of your bird. 
1 The more common colored species cost $10-$35. 2  Parakeets are brightly colored members of the parrot family with red, green, blue, orange, yellow or purple feathers. 3  They interact well with people, are natural acrobats and live around 10 years. 4  Prices start around $20, but brilliant-colored parakeets can run to $275. Shopping for a pet bird: 1  Cages should be limited to a single species per cage. 2  Feed costs about $50 per year for small breeds. 3  Those wanting to create an aviary--a large outdoor structure used to house many birds together--find that finches and canaries live well together in the large units. 4  The Avian Welfare Resource Center provides an online ...
$40+. $90+. $600+. $500+. Many people consider getting a bird as a pet since they feel most birds cost less and take less of a time commitment than a dog or a cat. This may be true if you get a canary that stays in the cage all the time and all you do is feed him.