The University's Personal Days Policy provides regular full-time exempt and non-exempt staff with a bank of days off with pay for the following types of absences: Note: Two of these days may be used for holidays that the University does not recognize.
Sick leave and personal days are a form of employment benefit in the form of paid time off for illness or to deal with a personal/private matter.
For example, in a calendar year an employee could have five sick days and three personal days. If the employee fails to use them all in the given amount of time, the company must decide whether to allow employees to roll them over (that is, add or bank them to the number of sick days for the following year).
Summary. All Regular administrative, service & support staff are granted four (4) personal days (32 hours) each year, with the year determined on the basis of the employee's beginning employment date. Regular employees who are 99 percent to 75 percent FTE are granted personal days on a prorata basis.
Sick leave and personal days are a form of employment benefit in the form of paid time off for illness or to deal with a personal/private matter. Since nearly everyone occasionally needs such time off, all businesses should have a clear policy established regarding sick leave and personal days.
Personal days are just that – personal, and are used at the employee’s discretion. Paid personal days are normally part of an employer’s comprehensive benefits package and supplement other paid time off such as paid sick days, paid vacation days, and paid holidays.
Personal days can cover things like the illness of a child, a death in the family, jury duty, military obligations, or religious holidays. Most companies also allow vacation time for employees in addition to their set amount of sick leave and personal days.
From a business standpoint, the main problem that companies face when an employee takes time off because of an illness or personal matter is the loss of production. This in turn leads to a loss of money (in most instances, an employee is paid when they take a sick or personal day).