Pregnancy Articles No comments. The fetal heart rate will change during the second trimester, just as it changes throughout the various stages of pregnancy. In fact, the fetal heart rate can change on a moment-by-moment basis, in response to various stimuli or various conditions that can be affecting your baby.
The normal fetal heart rate is between 110 to 180 beats per minute (BPM), but can vary. Fluctuations of the fetal heart rate (usually associated with fetal movement) during different periods of the day are common and often rise above 160, going as high as 180 to 190 and are considered normal.
To calculate your unborn baby's fetal heart rate simply count the heartbeats you hear for 15 seconds and multiply that number times 4. This will give you an average of your baby's (BPM) beats per minute (15 seconds multiplied by 4 equals 60 seconds).
A normal fetal heart rate is between 120-160 bpm. Perhaps last week it's heart rate was a little up in response to being poked & prodded by the doctor! Ultrasounds can also send their heart rate higher.
Just as an adults heartbeat changes with activity, stress, what you eat, medications etc... babies heart rates change too. Nothing to worry about though because your baby's heart rate is within the normal range of 110-180 beats per minute.
While your baby’s heart rate does tend to spike briefly around the age of ten weeks of pregnancy, by the time that the second trimester rolls around, your baby’s heart rate will not change much until after your baby is born.
The fetal heart rate can usually be detected with a fetal ultrasound doppler as early as 8 weeks. The normal fetal heart rate is between 110 to 180 beats per minute, but can vary slights. Fluctuations can occur throughout the day due to activity level and are completely normal.
At around the tenth week of pregnancy, roughly three weeks before the second trimester begins, the fetal heart rate will peak at around 175 beats per minute. By week fifteen, which is during the very early part of the second trimester, the fetal heart rate will have dropped down to around 140 beats per minute. It was once thought that the fetal heart rate could predict your baby’s gender.