Accordingly, absurdism is a philosophical school of thought stating that the efforts of humanity to find inherent meaning will ultimately fail (and hence are absurd) because the sheer amount of information as well as the vast realm of the unknown make total certainty impossible. The passion of faith is the only thing which masters the absurd — if not, then faith is not faith in the strictest sense, but a kind of knowledge. The absurd terminates negatively before the sphere of faith, which is a sphere by itself.
Soeren Søren kierkegaard is generally considered to have been the first existentialist, philosopher though he did not use the term. Existentialism he proposed that each—individual not society or—religion is solely responsible for giving meaning to life and living it passionately and (sincerely) . authentically Although many outside Scandinavia consider the term existentialism to have originated from Kierkegaard himself, it is more likely that Kierkegaard adopted this term (or at least the term existential as a description of his philosophy) from the Norwegian poet and literary critic Johan Sebastian Cammermeyer Welhaven.
Existentialism. Existentialism is a catch-all term for those philosophers who consider the nature of the human condition as a key philosophical problem and who share the view that this problem is best addressed through ontology. 
To a third person the believer relates himself by virtue of the absurd; so must a third person judge, for a third person does not have the passion of faith. Johannes de Silentio has never claimed to be a believer; just the opposite, he has explained that he is not a believer — in order to illuminate faith negatively. The passion of faith is the only thing which masters the absurd — if not, then faith is not faith in the strictest sense, but a kind of knowledge. The absurd terminates negatively before the sphere of faith, which is a sphere by itself.
For more information visit The Camus Society Human Nature and The Absurd in The Stranger, Caligula and Cross Purpose By Simon Lea In this paper I will be comparing three of Camus's characters: one from a novel and two from plays. And his story, unreal also. In the next section I will explore the idea that Meursault is a human without human nature. V Meursault may be unreal but he is not absurd There are two ways of looking at such things as love, friendship, and morality.
We must imagine Sisyphus as happy.for he has escaped the dilemma of his existence and is to be seen as heroic. If Existentialism was the philosophical model of a universe that has lost its meaning and purpose. -then the Theatre of the Absurd was one way of facing up to that universe. If there is a sin of life it is not perhaps so much to despair of life, as to hope for another life and to lose sight of the implacable grandeur of this one.[Camus]. 
Philosophical schools of absurdism explore the fundamental nature of the Absurd and how individuals, once they become aware of it, can or should react to it and to circumstances they encounter. 1 To a third person the believer relates himself by virtue of the absurd; so must a third person judge, for a third person does not have the passion of faith. 2  Johannes de Silentio has never claimed to be a believer; just the opposite, he has explained that he is not a believer — in order to illuminate faith negatively.
As a philosophy, absurdism furthermore explores the fundamental nature of the Absurd and how individuals, once becoming conscious of the Absurd, should respond to it. The passion of faith is the only thing which masters the absurd — if not, then faith is not faith in the strictest sense, but a kind of knowledge. The absurd terminates negatively before the sphere of faith, which is a sphere by itself.
For more information visit The Camus Society totally lucid, aware of both (a) and (b). Thus, since Meursault is only aware of one, he is not absurd. VI emotion, sentiment, human nature and the Absurd In The Rebel Camus recognizes rebellion as beginning with an emotional reaction to injustice. And his story, unreal also. In the next section I will explore the idea that Meursault is a human without human nature. V Meursault may be unreal but he is not absurd There are two ways of looking at such things as love, friendship, and morality.