An IQ in the top 2%. Getting into Mensa is NOT EASY. You have to score at or above the 98th percentile – the top 2% – on a standardized, professionally administered IQ test. This is typically a score of 130 or more.
Take the admission test. If you're interested in becoming a member of Mensa, our certified, volunteer Proctors welcome you to schedule a supervised testing session in your area! The Mensa Admission Test takes two hours to complete and includes two tests featuring questions involving logic and deductive reasoning. If you score at or above the 98th percentile on either of the two tests, you'll qualify and be invited to join Mensa. In addition, American Mensa also offers a culture fair test battery primarily for individuals who do not speak English as their primary language.
Mensa International is a high IQ society for those who score in the top two percent in terms of intelligence. That is, scores at the 98th percentile or higher on a standardized, supervised IQ test are required for admission into Mensa. Mensa Background. Mensa is both the oldest and largest high IQ society in the world.
Our testing fee is $40 (U.S.). American Mensa offers a culture fair test battery primarily for individuals who do not speak English as their primary language. The battery of three tests is designed to measure intelligence without the influence of cultural climate, level of education or verbal fluency.
One strategy for measuring your true IQ level and assessing your chance of joining Mensa is to take a Mensa supervised test – $40.00 in the US / £17.50 in the UK. This fee includes: 1  A reserved place at the centre of your choice.
The Mensa Admission Test costs $40, takes two hours, and consists of two separate exams: the Mensa Wonderlic® and the Mensa Admission Test. Anyone scoring in the 98th percentile or higher on either gains the right to pay $70 per year for membership.
1 According to giftedkids.about.com, testing can cost between $200 to $700. 2  The average rate is around $600 which generally includes both IQ and achievement tests. 3  On the other hand, according to Chuckfoxtrot.com, a six hour test to measure a person’s cognitive capacity costs around $600.