In using common, household items to melt metals, you can save time, money and effort in producing molded metal crafts and other products. Through investing in some basic tools and equipment, you can create a homemade rig capable of melting most soft metals in the comfort of your home.
Gallium is not the only metal that melts into a liquid near room temperature or body temperature. Francium, cesium, and rubidium also would melt in the palm of your hand. However, you seriously don't want to attempt this demonstration with any of them! Francium and cesium are radioactive.
This is a video of my home made kiln. Watch and you could build your own metal melting machine. For every thing brand new Tank, Cement, Rod, Tube, Heat gun/hairdryer, coal and liter fluid, it will still be under $100. Keep in mind this was the first time i had used it and there fore my pouring skills are not that great.
Simply place the piece of gallium in the palm of your hand and let the warmth of your body heat do the work! The melting point of gallium is 29.76 °C (85.57 °F), so it will readily melt in your hand or in a very warm room. Expect this to take around 3-5 minutes for a coin-sized piece of metal. When you are done examining the gallium, tilt your hand to allow the metal to flow into a non-metal container. If the container is also warm, the slow cooling will allow you to watch gallium form metal crystals. You can supercool gallium, which is holding it as a liquid above its freezing point.
First, gallium metal wets both glass and skin. What this means is the melted metal will leave finely divided gallium particles on your skin, giving it a grayish cast. It's not super-easy to wash off, so you might want to avoid the issue. The other consideration is that gallium attacks other metals.
Different metals melt at different temperatures, so knowing which metals you have can help you adjust the heat accordingly. Put all of the scraps of one type into the crucible, and apply a layer of baking soda over the metal. Raise the flame on the torch according to the type of metal you need to melt.