An onion cell is a plant cell, and a cheek cell an animal cell. The main differences between plant and animal cells are that plant cells have:        …  * Cellulose cell wall   * Large vacuole   * Chloroplasts (if the plant is green)         Animal cells have none of the above. Another difference between the cheek and liver cell is that the cheek cells die and divide all the time; however the average time taken for a human liver cell to divide is one year, therefore this illustrates the major difference in cell cycles of the two cell types.
The onion cell is a plant cell and the human cheek cell is an animal cell. The onion cell would have cell wall, vacuole, and granules of starch or oils. The animal cell would … have none of these. 3 people found this useful. Another difference between the cheek and liver cell is that the cheek cells die and divide all the time; however the average time taken for a human liver cell to divide is one year, therefore this illustrates the major difference in cell cycles of the two cell types.
Cheek cells, being animal cells, do not contain a cell wall as onion cells do becasue cell walls are found only in plant cells for structure and rigidness. Onion cells, unlike most plant cells, do not have chlorplasts becasue it does not need sunlight for photosynthesis as other plants do. Another difference between the cheek and liver cell is that the cheek cells die and divide all the time; however the average time taken for a human liver cell to divide is one year, therefore this illustrates the major difference in cell cycles of the two cell types.
Answer by Neinkats. Confidence votes 54. An onion cell is a plant cell, and a cheek cell an animal cell. The main differences between plant and animal cells are that plant cells have: Animal cells have none of the above. A cheek cell is a flat (squamous) cell from the inner lining of the mouth. The lining is a mucous membrane similar to those found all throughout our digestive tract.
1. A student could tell the difference between onion skin cells and cheek cells because the onion skin cells have a cell wall and chloroplasts. 2. 
Best Answer: Human epithelial cells are animal cells and thus do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts. Onion cells have cell walls, large central vacuoles, chloroplasts, etc. Source(s): http://www.cellsalive.com/cells/cell_mod... ladyelfoftherings · 7 years ago. 
The onion cell is a plant cell and the human cheek cell is an animal cell. The onion cell would have cell wall, vacuole, and granules of starch or oils. The animal cell would … have none of these. The main differences between plant and animal cells are that plant cells have: Animal cells have none of the above. A cheek cell is a flat (squamous) cell from the inner lining of the mouth. The lining is a mucous membrane similar to those found all throughout our digestive tract.
User: One difference between human cheek cells and onion cells is: the presence of cytoplasm. the absence of a nucleus in the plant cells. the absence of a cell wall in human cells. none of the above.Weegy: The difference between a human cheek cell and an onion cell is: the absence of a cell wall in human cells. 