1 - Because skeletal muscle is voluntary muscle, contraction requires a nervous impulse. So, step 1 in contraction is when the impulse is transferred from a neuron to the SARCOLEMMA of a muscle cell. 2 - The impulse travels along the SARCOLEMMA and down the T-TUBULES. Skeletal muscles are usually attached to bone by tendons composed of connective tissue. This connective tissue also ensheaths the entire muscle & is called epimysium. Skeletal muscles consist of numerous subunits or bundles called fasicles (or fascicles).
A special feature of the sarcolemma is that it invaginates into the cytoplasm of the muscle cell, forming membranous tubules radially and longitudinally within the fiber called transverse tubules (T-tubules). At each end of the muscle fiber, the surface layer of the sarcolemma fuses with a tendon fiber, and the tendon fibers in turn collect into bundles to form the muscle tendons that then adhere onto bones.
The plasma membrane of skeletal muscle is called the sarcolemma; its cytoplasm is known as sarcoplasm; the endoplasmic reticulum is called the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Each muscle cell is defined by a sarcolemma and contains many nuclei along its length. 
A T-tubule (or transverse tubule) is a deep invagination of the sarcolemma, which is the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle cells. These invaginations allow depolarization of the membrane to quickly penetrate to the interior of the cell. In skeletal muscle cells, T-tubules are typically located at the junction overlap between the A and I bands of the sarcomere, and together with a pair of terminal cisternae (bulbous enlarged areas of the sarcoplasmic reticulum) it forms an arrangement called a triad.
The sarcolemma generally maintains the same function in muscle cells as the plasma membrane does in other eukaryote cells. It acts as a barrier between the extracellular and intracellular compartments, defining the individual muscle fiber from its surroundings. At each end of the muscle fiber, the surface layer of the sarcolemma fuses with a tendon fiber, and the tendon fibers in turn collect into bundles to form the muscle tendons that then adhere onto bones.
All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell. In other cells, such as gland cells and ciliated cells, it is believed that the membrane voltage is important to the execution of cell function. The origin of the membrane voltage is the same in nerve cells as in muscle cells. In both cell types, the membrane generates an impulse as a consequence of excitation. This impulse propagates in both cell types in the same manner. What follows is a short introduction to the anatomy and physiology of nerve cells.
See Excitation-contraction coupling. T-tubules are the major sites for the coupling of excitation and contraction, which is the process whereby the spreading depolarization is converted into force production by muscle fibers. In skeletal muscle cells, T-tubules are typically located at the junction overlap between the A and I bands of the sarcomere, and together with a pair of terminal cisternae (bulbous enlarged areas of the sarcoplasmic reticulum) it forms an arrangement called a triad.
The contraction of a muscle fiber is triggered by an action potential conducting over plasma membrane of the muscle fiber. The action potential conducts from the surface of the muscle fiber into the interior via transverse tubules (T tubules). These long tubes are continuous with the plasma membrane. Since muscle cells are elongated and cylindrical, each muscle cell is usually called a muscle fiber. In skeletal muscle, the muscle fibers are very large, multinucleated, and up to several millimeters in length.
The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. Skeletal muscles are usually attached to bone by tendons composed of connective tissue. This connective tissue also ensheaths the entire muscle & is called epimysium. Skeletal muscles consist of numerous subunits or bundles called fasicles (or fascicles).