Fabry disease is an inherited disorder that results from the buildup of a particular type of fat, called globotriaosylceramide, in the body's cells. Beginning in childhood, this buildup causes signs and symptoms that affect many parts of the body. The progressive accumulation of this substance damages cells, leading to the varied signs and symptoms of Fabry disease. GLA gene mutations that result in an absence of alpha-galactosidase A activity lead to the classic, severe form of Fabry disease. Mutations that decrease but do not eliminate the enzyme's activity usually cause the milder, late-onset forms of Fabry disease that affect only the heart or kidneys
Fabry disease-caused by mutations in the GLA gene. More than 370 mutations in the GLA gene have been identified in people with Fabry disease. Most of these genetic changes are unique to single families. The GLA gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called alpha-galactosidase A. This enzyme is active in lysosomes, which are structures that act as recycling centers within cells. Lysosomes use digestive enzymes to process worn-out cell components and recycle usable parts.
Mutations of the GLA gene in Korean patients with Fabry disease and frequency of the E66Q allele as a functional variant in Korean newborns. Beom Hee Lee, Sun Hee Heo, Gu-Hwan Kim, Jung-Young Park, Woo-Shik Kim, Duk-Hee Kang, Kyung Hoon Choe, Won-Ho Kim, Song Hyun Yang and Han-Wook Yoo. In this report on Korean Fabry families, all mutations in the GLA gene, excluding p.E66Q (24 / 25), were private, in that they were restricted to an individual family, and widely distributed along the gene, as in other populations. The characteristics of the mutations were also similar to those
Fabry disease is caused by mutations in the GLA gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called alpha-galactosidase A. This enzyme is active in lysosomes, which are structures that serve as recycling centers within cells. The progressive accumulation of this substance damages cells, leading to the varied signs and symptoms of Fabry disease. GLA gene mutations that result in an absence of alpha-galactosidase A activity lead to the classic, severe form of Fabry disease. Mutations that decrease but do not eliminate the enzyme's activity usually cause the milder, late-onset forms of Fabry disease that affect only the heart or kidney
Females who harbor a mutation in the GLA gene may have manifestations of the disorder, including renal, cardiac and cerebrovascular involvement, angiokeratomas and corneal epitheliopathy. Fabry disease is due to inactivating mutations in the X-linked GLA gene resulting in deficiency of the enzyme alpha-galactosidase A. 
The gene, which encodes a 429 amino acid polypeptide; including a 31 amino acid signal peptide, is 12 kilobases long and contains 7 exons. The defect that causes Fabry disease is heterogeneous: to date, more than 400 mutations of the α-GAL gene have been recorded in the Human Mutation Database. Moreover, most families have “private” mutations (found only in that family) , which may explain the variations in the clinical presentation of Fabry disease. Fabry disease is an X-linked disease; heterozygous mothers who, with each conception, have a 50% chance of passing the defective gene on to all offspring. Sons who inherit the gene will have
Fabry disease, an X-linked inborn error of glycosphingolipid catabolism, results from mutations in the alpha-galactosidase A gene at Xq22.1. Studies of the mutations in unrelated Fabry families have identified a variety of lesions indicating the molecular genetic heterogeneity underlying the disease. Molecular basis of Fabry disease: mutations and polymorphisms in the human alpha-galactosidase A gene. Eng CM(1), Desnick RJ. Author information: (1)Department of Human Genetics, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 10029
There are over 600 mutations in the GLA gene that is responsible for Fabry disease, thus, the severity and range of symptoms may vary among individuals. Absent enzyme activity results in the classic subtype, while patients with the later-onset subtype have residual enzyme activity. Fabry disease is a rare genetic disorder of fat (lipid) metabolism characterized by a deficiency of the enzyme alpha-galactosidase A (previously known as ceramide trihexosidase).