He then became the president of the Constitutional Convention in 1787. George Washington's Military Career: Washington joined the Virginia militia in 1752. He created and then was forced to surrender Fort Necessity to the French.
George Washington was born at his father's plantation on Pope's Creek in Westmoreland County, Virginia, on February 22, 1732. His father, Augustine Washington, was a leading planter in the area and also served as a justice of the county court.
The First Supreme Court. As the first president, and since there were no sitting justices at the beginning of his term, George Washington had the unique opportunity to fill the entire body of United States federal judges with his selections-- including the
On February 4, 1789, the 69 members of the Electoral College made George Washington the only chief executive to be unanimously elected. Congress was supposed to make the choice official that March but could not muster a quorum until April.
He was unanimously elected by the 69 electors. His runner up, John Adams, was named Vice President. Reelection - 1792: George Washington was able to rise above the politics of the day and carry every electoral vote - 132 from 15 states-to win a second term. John Adams, as runner-up, remained the
George Washington-Childhood and Education: Washington was born on February 22, 1732. He lost his father at age 11 and his half brother, Lawrence, took over that role. Washington's mother was protective and demanding, keeping him from joining the British navy as Lawrence wanted.
Home George Washington The First President. Unanimously elected twice, President Washington established many crucial presidential precedents. In 1789, George Washington became the first president of the United States, unanimously elected to the office and enjoying wide support from both politicians and the public alike. Washington helped shape the office's future role and powers, as well as set both formal and informal precedents for future presidents.
Unanimously elected the first president, Washington was inaugurated in New York City on April 30, 1789. Acting with a cooperative Congress, he and his aides constructed the foundations on which the political institutions of the country have rested since that time.