Excretory products in human beings Your body excretes water, carbon dioxide and nitrogenous compounds. Carbon dioxide and water are formed as a result of tissue respiration in your body. The word equation is as follows: glucose + oxygen carbon dioxide + water + energy. 
When oxidized in the body in the process called metabolism, glucose produces carbon dioxide, water, and some nitrogen compounds and in the process provides energy which can be used by the cells. The energy yield is about 686 kilocalories (2870 kilojoules) per mole which can be used to do work or help keep the body warm. 
Well carbon dioxide is produced when the body needs to make energy. It happens at the cellular level, in the mitochondria of the cell. This organelle takes marcomolecule … s, anything from lipids, sugars, and other substances, and breaks them down to form water and carbon dioxide. When you use more energy (example: running) , more carbon dioxide is produced by your cells and more of it needs to be moved out of your body. So when you muscles are working hard, your lungs are also working hard to take in needed oxygen and release carbon dioxide. 14 people found this useful.
Best Answer: Cellular respiration (mostly Kreb's cycle). The more you exercise, the more you'll need to use cellular respiration to make energy, and the more CO2 you'll produce. When you exercise, your cells needs more ATP to keep your muscles working, so your body increases the oxygen income by breathing faster/deeper and your liver starts to release more glucose in your bloodstream so that it'll reach all of your cells, so they'll be able to produce more ATP.
Well carbon dioxide is produced when the body needs to make energy. It happens at the cellular level, in the mitochondria of the cell. This organelle takes marcomolecule … s, anything from lipids, sugars, and other substances, and breaks them down to form water and carbon dioxide. When you use more energy (example: running) , more carbon dioxide is produced by your cells and more of it needs to be moved out of your body. So when you muscles are working hard, your lungs are also working hard to take in needed oxygen and release carbon dioxide. 14 people found this useful.
Lab #10: Exercise and CO2 production Introduction: Cellular respiration is the process that takes place your cells; it begins in the cytoplasm and ends in the mitochondria. Your cells go through cellular respiration because they need the energy that is stored in glucose. The energy of one glucose molecule is converted into 38 ATPs. The harder your cells work the more ATP they need. So, they will break down more glucose, use more oxygen and in turn produce more carbon dioxide. 
Carbon Dioxide is a product of cellular respitation, and almost every cell in your body does cellular respiration in order to use energy from sugar you eat f … rom food. When you use more energy (example: running) , more carbon dioxide is produced by your cells and more of it needs to be moved out of your body. So when you muscles are working hard, your lungs are also working hard to take in needed oxygen and release carbon dioxide. 14 people found this useful.
Carbon Dioxide is a product of cellular respitation, and almost every cell in your body does cellular respiration in order to use energy from sugar you eat f … rom food. When you use more energy (example: running) , more carbon dioxide is produced by your cells and more of it needs to be moved out of your body. So when you muscles are working hard, your lungs are also working hard to take in needed oxygen and release carbon dioxide. 14 people found this useful.
Cellular Respiration. Cellular respiration is a process through which the body releases energy stored in glucose, which is a compound composed of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. That energy is used to produce adenosine triphosphate, or ADP, which scientists call the energy currency of the cell. Carbon monoxide can kill. The gas forms when there is not enough oxygen to produce carbon dioxide -- essentially when the carbon in fuel is not burned completely. Carbon monoxide prevents oxygen in the blood from being carried throughout the body, causing asphyxiation.
Report Abuse. Cellular respiration is a process that uses oxygen and glucose to produce ATP, the cell fuel. During this process, the cell produces carbon dioxide as a metabolite. When you exercise, your cells needs more ATP to keep your muscles working, so your body increases the oxygen income by breathing faster/deeper and your liver starts to release more glucose in your bloodstream so that it'll reach all of your cells, so they'll be able to produce more ATP.