Today is, liturgically, Shrove Tuesday. Gastronomically, today is Fasnacht Day, or pancake day, when people across the Midstate region will gorge themselves on the epicurean delights known as fasnachts. The word fasnacht is German, meaning fast night, or the night before Ash Wednesday, when the Lenten fast begins. Technically, fasnachts are just doughnuts, but because they're about to become a forbidden food, they are, therefore, extra delicious. The recipes vary, but all contain sugar, butter, eggs, flour.
Fastnacht Day is dependent upon the day of Easter, and Ash Wednesday. Easter Day varies from year to year because of the spring equinox, or full moon, and is usually the last Sunday of the month of March. Fastnacht Day takes place 47 days before Easter Day, on the Tuesday prior to Ash Wednesday.
Fastnacht Day is an annual Pennsylvania Dutch celebration that falls on Shrove Tuesday, the day before Ash Wednesday. The word translates to Fast Night in English. The tradition is to eat the very best foods, which are part of the German tradition, and lots of it, before the Lenten fast. Easter Day varies from year to year because of the spring equinox, or full moon, and is usually the last Sunday of the month of March. Fastnacht Day takes place 47 days before Easter Day, on the Tuesday prior to
A Fasnacht is a donut like treat served only on Fasnacht Day. This treat is found mainly in Southeastern Pennsylvania, or Pennsylvania Dutch Country. Fasnachts are made from potato dough. They are then fried and often coated with a sugar glaze. Most people know it as “Fat Tuesday”. In some cultures weeks prior to Lent are for partying, however, in other cultures like the German Fasching, Fasnacht or Karneval, the French Mardi Gras or the Italian carnival, it represents a period of revelry before the solemn period of fasting and self-reflection.
It’s a good day to be a doughnut. Not just any doughnut, mind — Tuesday is Fasnacht Day, also known as Shrove Tuesday, the day before Lent when people traditionally eat up whatever sugar and lard they have on hand before the season of fasting begins. What began as a practical adaptation to a religious observance has grown into a baker’s gold mine. 
Fasnacht, Sometimes spelled Fastnacht, Faschnacht, Fosnot, Fosnaught, Fausnaught, is an English name for a fried doughnut served traditionally in the days of Carnival / Fastnacht or on (Shrove Tuesday), the day before Lent starts. 
Guest Author-Sandy Moyer. Lent begins on Ash Wednesday, March 9, 2011. In Pennsylvania Dutch country, March 8th, Shrove Tuesday, the day before the start of Lent, is known as Fastnacht Day.. The Pennsylvania Dutch celebrate Shrove Tuesday by eating yeast raised potato doughnuts, which are lovingly known as Fastnachts.The name Fastnacht is German for Fast Night.. The Pennsylvania Dutch celebrate Shrove Tuesday by eating yeast raised potato doughnuts, which are lovingly known as Fastnachts.. The name Fastnacht is German for Fast Night.. Fastnacht Day is a day to forget about dieting and a slim waistline and feast on doughnuts!
Fasnacht Day, more properly called Fastnacht, is Shrove Tuesday, the day before Ash Wednesday. This was the established beginning of the 40 days of fasting during Lent. It is a folk tradition dating to the Middle Ages, a Catholic custom that has survived in Protestant Pennsylvania. 
It’s Fat Tuesday so you know what that means… Fasnacht Day is in full swing. It’s the day when Pennsylvania Dutch food tradition truly shines. 
In Catholic and Protestant countries, Fasnacht Day is also called Fat Tuesday, or Mardi Gras, a name which predates the Reformation and referred to the Christian tradition of eating rich foods before the Lenten fast began. The word fasnacht is German, meaning fast night, or the night before Ash Wednesday, when the Lenten fast begins. Technically, fasnachts are just doughnuts, but because they're about to become a forbidden food, they are, therefore, extra delicious. The recipes vary, but all contain sugar, butter, eggs, flour.