Bitter Melon and Diabetes. Bitter melon can reduce blood glucose levels but more research is required. Bitter melon, also known as bitter gourd or karela (in India), is a unique vegetable-fruit that can be used as food or medicine. It is the edible part of the plant Momordica Charantia, which is a vine of the Cucurbitaceae family and is considered the most bitter among all fruits and vegetables. It is also known that bitter melon contains a lectin that reduces blood glucose concentrations by acting on peripheral tissues and suppressing appetite-similar to the effects of insulin in the brain.
It is also used for diabetes, kidney stones, fever, a skin condition called psoriasis, and liver disease; to start menstruation; and as supportive treatment for people with HIV /AIDS. Topically, bitter melon is used for deep skin infections (abscesses) and wounds. The fruit and seeds are used to make medicine. Bitter melon is used for various stomach and intestinal disorders including gastrointestinal (GI) upset, ulcers, colitis, constipation, and intestinal worms.
Bitter melon fruit is POSSIBLY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth in the short-term. The safety of long-term use (beyond 3 months) is not known. There also is not enough information about the safety of consuming other parts of the bitter melon or applying bitter melon to the skin. The fruit and seeds are used to make medicine. Bitter melon is used for various stomach and intestinal disorders including gastrointestinal (GI) upset, ulcers, colitis, constipation, and intestinal worms.
Bitter melon is a plant. The fruit and seeds are used to make medicine. Bitter melon is used for various stomach and intestinal disorders including gastrointestinal (GI) upset, ulcers, colitis, constipation, and intestinal worms.
Bitter melon is a plant that grows in parts of Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, and South America. It grows a fruit that looks like a cucumber. People use bitter melon as both a food and a traditional medicine. 1 At least in the short-term, bitter melon seems to be safe. 2  It can cause upset stomach, cramping, and diarrhea. 3  Risks. 4  Bitter melon may affect blood sugar levels. 5  Check with a doctor before using it if you have diabetes. 6  It could cause very low blood sugar when mixed with some diabetes medicines.
BITTER GOURD. The gourd gets its name because of its extremely bitter taste. However, it offers unparalleled health benefits. Bitter gourd [karela in Hindi] has a special status in folk medicine due and is used to treat malaria, fevers, wounds, diabetes, vaginal discharge, worm infection and menstrual disorders. 1 Those with hypoglycaemia should avoid eating or drinking bitter melon. 2  Women who are pregnant should avoid eating bitter gourd as it is a uterine stimulant. 3  Those taking medicines for controlling diabetes should not eat bitter gourd without consulting a doctor as it may cause blood sugar to fall below healthy levels.
While it remains true that diabetes is a lifelong condition, Ampalaya Plus contains Bitter Gourd or Bitter Melon is the Natures’ Remedy for Type 2 Diabetes, an amazing vegetable that is used worldwide to lover blood sugar levels. 
The effect of the bitter melon leaves lowering blood sugar level among diabetics is evident regardless of how it is prepared-boiled then eaten, in the form of tea, capsule or tablet. But diabetics should be cautioned about replacing their proprietary medicines with bitter melon teas, capsules or tablets. Books and articles about bitter melon states that the extract from the leaves or roots shrinks hemorrhoids. The juice from the leaves is also good to prevent and lessen cough, for fever and against roundworms.
Results of these scientific studies that determine the effect of drinking of bitter melon extract on blood sugar level of Type 2 Diabetes have consistently shown that bitter melon lowers blood sugar level. The effect on blood sugar is due to momordicin, a substance that is also responsible for it's bitter taste. Books and articles about bitter melon states that the extract from the leaves or roots shrinks hemorrhoids. The juice from the leaves is also good to prevent and lessen cough, for fever and against roundworms.
Bitter melon is best known as a traditional medicine to treat diabetes. Some studies suggest it may have a benefit, while others do not. In early studies, bitter melon fruit -- and supplements -- seemed to improve blood sugar levels over time. But other studies have not shown any improvement in blood sugar. 1 At least in the short-term, bitter melon seems to be safe. 2  It can cause upset stomach, cramping, and diarrhea. 3  Risks. 4  Bitter melon may affect blood sugar levels. 5  Check with a doctor before using it if you have diabetes. 6  It could cause very low blood sugar when mixed with some diabetes medicines.