The crown of a tree consists of the mass of foliage and branches growing outward from the trunk of the tree. The average crown spread is the average horizontal width of the crown, taken from dripline to dripline as one moves around the crown. Some listings will also list the maximum crown spread which represents the greatest width from dripline to dripline across the crown. Canopy mapping surveys the position and size of all of the limbs down to a certain size in the crown of the tree and is commonly used when measuring the overall wood volume of a tree. Average crown spread is one of the parameters commonly measured as part of various champion tree programs and documentation efforts.
Roots found during construction. Ultimately, comparing the spread of the root system to the spread of the canopy is problematic. The dripline is easily altered by pruning, and the roots will not shrink to match the pruned canopy. Trunk diameter is a more reliable predictor of root spread. A 2009 study by Susan Day and Eric Wiseman at Virginia Tech analyzed young trees less than 8 inches in diameter growing in unobstructed soil and found that the ratio of root radius to trunk diameter was about 38 to 1.
treeguy123 (AL 7b). Tree spread is simply how wide the trees branches eventually become (from one side of the tree strait thru the trunk to the other side). Acer palmatum 'Bloodgood' slowly grows to 20 feet wide so it will have 10 foot long branches on each side of the trunk (10+10=20 feet). In might mean radius in UK or all of Europe for some odd reason, but in the U.S. Spread means just that, the spread of a tree (the diameter measurement of a trees crown). I believe most or all nursers in the U.S. mean this also. 20 feet is the mature width (spread) of Acer palmatum 'Bloodgood', not 40 feet.
1 Person B then moves the ruler until the base of the tree is exactly at 0-inches and the top of the tree is sighted exactly at 10-inches. 2  Person B sights out from the ruler’s 1-inch mark to a point on the trunk above the base. The total of these measurements is the points awarded to a particular tree. A champion tree has accumulated the most points. If two trees of the same species have identical scores, the tree with the largest trunk circumference becomes champion.
For champion trees the Average Crown Spread is made by adding the smallest diameter of the crown and the largest diameter of the crown, then dividing it by two. i.e. 30 ft spread + 20 ft spread = 50 A· ã = 2 25 foot. Spread here is another example of a tree guide showing tree: spread'-25' 35. spread In might mean radius in UK or all of Europe for some odd reason, but in the U.S. Spread means just that, the spread of a tree (the diameter measurement of a trees crown). I believe most or all nursers in the U.S. mean this also. 20 feet is the mature width (spread) of Acer palmatum 'Bloodgood', not 40 feet.
The Redbud tree is a relatively small tree with spreading branches and a small short trunk. The Redbud is a poplar ornamental tree, which can be found in many gardens and streetscapes. The tree is one of the earliest flowering trees and is often used to add color to gardens. 
The height and spread of an apple tree (Pyrus malus) depends on the type of tree, whether it is a standard, dwarf or semi-dwarf. To a certain degree, the height and spread of the tree can also be controlled through careful pruning and training. With the exception of standard apple trees, the size of your apple tree is controlled by the type of rootstock the scion has been grafted to. Dwarfing rootstocks have classifications that are used to indicate the eventual size of the fully grown, adult tree. These rootstocks control the height and spread of the tree. Malling 9 and Malling 26 are the rootstocks that have the most dwarfing effect. Malling 7 and Merton Malling 106 rootstocks produce the types of trees commonly referred to as semi-dwarf
Measuring a tree. Trees submitted as nominees for the Big Tree Registry must be measured with circumference in inches, and height and crown spread to the nearest foot. The total of these measurements is the points awarded to a particular tree. A champion tree has accumulated the most points. If two trees of the same species have identical scores, the tree with the largest trunk circumference becomes champion.