Any hardening of the brain is called encephalosclerosis. If the hardening occurs in the cerebral hemispheres (as opposed to the rhombencephalon), it is called cerebroscleros … is. This is a morbid condition. The hardening of arteries within the brain is a form of arteriosclerosis, which in most cases is atherosclerosis. The buildup of hardened scar tissue within the brain can also be caused by the demyelinating autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis.
This can cause a blood clot that can partially or totally block the flow of blood in the artery.  Atherosclerosis is the hardening and narrowing of the arteries. It is caused by the slow buildup of plaque on the inside of walls of the arteries. Neila Rockson. This is a morbid condition. The hardening of arteries within the brain is a form of arteriosclerosis, which in most cases is atherosclerosis. The buildup of hardened scar tissue within the brain can also be caused by the demyelinating autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis.
Atherosclerosis (also known as arteriosclerotic vascular disease or ASVD) is a specific form of arteriosclerosis in which an artery wall thickens as a result of invasion and accumulation of white blood cells (WBCs) (foam cell) and proliferation of intimal smooth muscle cell creating a fibrofatty plaque. Atherosclerosis is therefore a syndrome affecting arterial blood vessels due to a chronic inflammatory response of WBCs in the walls of arteries.
Hardening of the arteries due to cholesterol plaques is called atherosclerosis or arteriosclerosis. The term Atherosclerosis literally means hardening from atheroma . This is a morbid condition. The hardening of arteries within the brain is a form of arteriosclerosis, which in most cases is atherosclerosis. The buildup of hardened scar tissue within the brain can also be caused by the demyelinating autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis. 7 people found this useful.
Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. 
Atherosclerosis is hardening and narrowing of medium-size and larger blood vessels, such as the aorta and those found in the heart (coronary arteries), brain, and legs. Atherosclerosis is by far the most common type of hardening of the arteries. It is caused by the slow buildup of plaque on the inside walls of arteries. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in your blood.
This can cause a blood clot that can partially or totally block the flow of blood in the artery.  Atherosclerosis is the hardening and narrowing of the arteries. It is caused by the slow buildup of plaque on the inside of walls of the arteries. Answered. This is a morbid condition. The hardening of arteries within the brain is a form of arteriosclerosis, which in most cases is atherosclerosis. The buildup of hardened scar tissue within the brain can also be caused by the demyelinating autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis. 7 people found this useful.
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body. Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including heart attack, stroke, or even death
Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to other parts of the body. Hardening of the arteries (also known as arteriosclerosis) is a condition that causes blood vessels in the body to harden and thicken. The condition is most often caused by the slow buildup of plaque on the inside walls of the arteries. Atherosclerosis is by far the most common type of hardening of the arteries. It is caused by the slow buildup of plaque on the inside walls of arteries. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in your blood.