There is no upper age limit for apprenticeships but should you be aged 24+ you will have to apply for an advanced learning loan for courses starting on or after 1st August 2013. To pay for your apprenticeship. For further information regarding advanced learning loans please contact your provider. Career progression is excellent for apprentices, and over the course of their careers, those with an Apprenticeship earn, on average, 100,000 more than those without.[A Cost-Benefit Analysis of Apprenticeships and Other Vocational Qualifications, University of Sheffield, 2007].
(Original post by OutsourceTD) There is no age limit for doing an Apprenticeship. It is only a matter of funding. If you are aged 24 or less you can get full funding or up to 50%. From September I will be in my second year of college even though I am 19. By the time I leave college I will be 20. After which I am interested in doing an advanced apprenticeship. Is there any maximum age that someone is able to do an apprenticeship or does it depend on the company.
The current level of National Minimum Wage is £2.68 per hour for apprentices aged under 19, or if you’re 19 or over and in the first year of their apprenticeship. NMW rates for apprentices will rise from 1 October 2014 to £2.73 per hour. http://www.youngscot.org/info/126-national-minimum-wage. A Modern Apprenticeship is a structured program of training and experiences that usually results in industry recognised qualifications or N/SVQ’s (National/Scottish Vocational Qualifications). You should seek advice if you are not sure from http://www.ourskillsforce.co.uk/modern-apprenticeships/ or call 0800 783 6000.
Although there is no age limit, there is the issue of whether the government or your employer will pay for your training: 16-18: Full government funding of the cost of training. From September I will be in my second year of college even though I am 19. By the time I leave college I will be 20. After which I am interested in doing an advanced apprenticeship. Is there any maximum age that someone is able to do an apprenticeship or does it depend on the company.
A: Yes. Apprentices must be full-time employees of the employer who is sponsoring the training program. However, in the event of a School-to-Registered Apprenticeship program, apprentices may be employed part-time. Typically, the wage of an apprentice starts at 40-50% of a skilled worker's wage. A: The Registered Apprenticeship system of training is unique in that it is the only formal, structured, and nationally recognized education and training program available that combines the two most common forms of career and occupational learning: classroom instruction with on-the-job training.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can do an apprenticeship at any age-there is no upper age limit. However, most funding is only available for those aged 16-24. If you're between 16-18, the government will fund the entire cost of the apprenticeship. If you're 19-24, the government will fund up to 50 percent of the cost with the employer funding the rest. So, while it's perfectly possible to do an apprenticeship if you're over 25 (and many people do), you'll have to find an employer willing to fund the cost of the training. Source(s): I work for a company who provide apprenticeship training: http://www.dlcapprenticeships.co.uk. Distance Learning · 4 years ago. Thumbs up.
The minimum age for someone to commence an Australian Apprenticeships is 15 years of age. There is no maximum age limit. Australian Apprenticeships are used by employers as a method of training new employees but can also be used as a way to increase the skills of existing employees. Some detail to think about later. An Australian Apprentice must be employed under a Training Contract that is signed by the Australian Apprentice and the employer. If the Australian Apprentice is under the age of 18, their parent or guardian’s signature must also be present on the Training Contract.
Not sure if there's an official upper age limit. I've just finished an Admin apprenticeship and I'm 20, started when I was 19. There's also one where I work who is 22, married and has a baby. To be sure I'd check with the company you want to work for, they should be able to tell you. From September I will be in my second year of college even though I am 19. By the time I leave college I will be 20. After which I am interested in doing an advanced apprenticeship. Is there any maximum age that someone is able to do an apprenticeship or does it depend on the company.
You can be an Apprentice at any age, although funding is usually only available for apprentices aged 16-19 or 16-24. Many employers do see the advantages of taking on older candidates so don’t be put off if you are 24 or over. Adults of any age can and do become Apprentices. A Modern Apprenticeship is a structured program of training and experiences that usually results in industry recognised qualifications or N/SVQ’s (National/Scottish Vocational Qualifications). You should seek advice if you are not sure from http://www.ourskillsforce.co.uk/modern-apprenticeships/ or call 0800 783 6000.