Unfortunately, over time this can be a serious condition that requires attention. I encourage you to talk to your primary care doctor who can better explain, evaluate and treat this situation. Hyperlipidemia means there is an elevated level of lipids (or fats) in your blood. Cholesterol is one type of fat. It is probably the most important type. As for what causes it, there are really two major causes. One is diet. Cholesterol and fats come from animal products
Triglycerides, a type of fat in the blood, are different from cholesterol, but because of their strong association with heart disease, triglycerides are measured as well. Often it is both the LDL and triglycerides that are elevated in hyperlipidemia. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Hyperlipidemia is a major risk factor for heart disease, the leading cause of death in the US. 2  Hyperlipidemia is also called high cholesterol, hypercholesterolemia, or hypertriglyceridemia. 3  LDL is bad.
Lipedema affects up to 11% of women. It happens when fat is distributed in an irregular way beneath your skin, usually in the buttocks and legs. Although it begins as a cosmetic concern, it can eventually cause pain and other problems. Lipedema can be mistaken for regular obesity or lymphedema.
Medical Definition of HYPERLIPIDEMIA. : the presence of excess fat or lipids in the blood.
Hyperlipidemia, hyperlipoproteinemia, or hyperlipidaemia (British English) involves abnormally elevated levels of any or all lipids and/or lipoproteins in the blood. It is the most common form of dyslipidemia (which includes any abnormal lipid levels). Also, hyperlipidemia may be idiopathic, that is, without known cause. Hyperlipidemias are also classified according to which types of lipids are elevated, that is hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia or both in combined hyperlipidemia.
Managing hyperlipidemia means controlling cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperlipidemia is a mouthful, but it’s really just a fancy word for too many lipids – or fats – in the blood. That can cover many conditions, but for most people, it comes down to two well-known terms: high cholesterol and high triglycerides. 
lipidemia-presence of excess lipids in the blood. hyperlipaemia, hyperlipemia, hyperlipidaemia, hyperlipidemia, hyperlipoidaemia, hyperlipoidemia, lipaemia, lipemia, lipidaemia, lipoidaemia, lipoidemia. 
Hyperlipidemia, hyperlipoproteinemia, dyslipidemia or hyperlipidaemia (British English) is the presence of raised or abnormal levels of lipids and/or lipoproteins in the blood. 
Hyperlipidemias are divided into primary and secondary subtypes. Primary hyperlipidemia is usually due to genetic causes (such as a mutation in a receptor protein), while secondary hyperlipidemia arises due to other underlying causes such as diabetes. Also, hyperlipidemia may be idiopathic, that is, without known cause. Hyperlipidemias are also classified according to which types of lipids are elevated, that is hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia or both in combined hyperlipidemia.