“ The position power exercised by the vice president of research and development was demonstrated when he dictated how the project would be completed. YES NO 3 people found this helpful. “ The trading analyst came to a different conclusion than the others based on his research, but the lead analyst exercised his position power and told the brokers to buy at a price that he thought was better.
a ability to impact other people based upon the acceptance by these other people that the individual impacting them occupies an official position in the establishment or group which gives them the right to make important decisions and to command the others to comply. 
Use position power in a sentence. “ He had position power by virtue of himself being the boss and he let us all know that and we all felt like he was pretty insecure. YES NO 3 people found this helpful. “ The trading analyst came to a different conclusion than the others based on his research, but the lead analyst exercised his position power and told the brokers to buy at a price that he thought was better.
As of 2015, this status remains unchanged. A superpower is a word used to describe a state with a dominant position in international relations and is characterised by its unparalleled ability to exert influence or project power on a global scale. 
dominant position, use of an office with power and influence to expose or impose one's views. canned by Theodore Roosevelt. dominant. dominant. adj. a person with more power or authority than others. Eg.: Your father is one of the dominant man in his section because he is boss. ! smack dab. smack dab. exp. n (Music) the vertical distribution of the written notes of a chord in which the root of the chord is in the bass. See → position → 12a → inversion → 5a. English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: position, in a position, benchmark position, false position.
4. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) control or dominion or a position of control, dominion, or authority. 5. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a state or other political entity with political, industrial, or military strength. 6. a person who exercises control, influence, or authority: he's a power in the state. pow•er. 1. ability to do or act; capability of doing or accomplishing something. 2. political or national strength. 3. great or marked ability to do or act; strength; might; force. 4. the possession of control or command over others; authority; ascendancy: power over people's minds.
In social science and politics, power is the ability to influence or control the behavior of people. The term  authority  is often used for power perceived as legitimate by the social structure. Power can be seen as evil or unjust, but the exercise of power is accepted as endemic to humans as social beings. In business, power is often expressed as being upward or downward. The use of power need not involve force or the threat of force (coercion). At one extreme, it more closely resembles what English-speaking people might term influence, although some authors distinguish influence as a means by which power is used.
: a position as a leader of a group, organization, etc. : the time when a person holds the position of leader. : the power or ability to lead other people. Full Definition of LEADERSHIP. 1. : the office or position of a leader. 2. : capacity to lead. 3. : the act or an instance of leading. 4. See leadership defined for English-language learners.
Definition. The act of using one’s position of power in an abusive way. This can take many forms, such as taking advantage of someone, gaining access to information that shouldn’t be accessible to the public, or just manipulating someone with the ability to punish them if they don’t comply.
The assumed authority or influence a person holds over others by virtue of the title of his or her position. Power exercised in correlation with the perceived level of a position relative to others in the organization. YES NO 3 people found this helpful. “ The trading analyst came to a different conclusion than the others based on his research, but the lead analyst exercised his position power and told the brokers to buy at a price that he thought was better.