Share. By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A family of languages (including most of the languages spoken in Europe, India, and Iran) descended from a common tongue spoken in the third millennium B.C. by an agricultural people originating in southeastern Europe.
1 Relating to the family of languages spoken over the greater part of Europe and Asia as far as northern India. Example sentences. 1  The Kurdish minority of northern Iraq speaks an Indo-European language very different from the Semitic language of Arabic. 2 A speaker of an Indo-European language, especially Proto-Indo-European. Example sentences. 1  Some of the women are ethnically Iranian, which means that they are Indo-Europeans, and speak Persian.
1.1 The Indo-European family of languages. Example sentences. 1  English is shown within a partial family tree of Indo-European. 2  Pashtu belongs to the North-Eastern group of languages within the Iranian branch of Indo-European. 3  Alliterative meter also seems to predominate in the very earliest texts from the third western branch of Indo-European, Italic. 2 A speaker of an Indo-European language, especially Proto-Indo-European. Example sentences. 1  Some of the women are ethnically Iranian, which means that they are Indo-Europeans, and speak Persian.
By Irene Thompson | Updated February 24, 2015 by Irene Thompson. Indo-European is a family of languages that first spread throughout Europe and many parts of South Asia, and later to every corner of the globe as a result of colonization. In addition, Russian is spoken in Canada, China, Finland, Germany, Greece, India, Israel, and the U.S. Russian is listed among the ten most-spoken languages in the world (Wikipedia).” We will correct the entry in the Indo-European Language Family.
The Indo-European languages are a family of related languages that today are widely spoken in the Americas, Europe, and also Western and Southern Asia. Albanian. Albanian is the last branch of Indo-European languages to appear in written form. There are two hypotheses on the origin of Albanian. The first one says that Albanian is a modern descendant of Illyrian, a language which was widely spoken in the region during classical times.
2. Indo-European-the family of languages that by 1000 BC were spoken throughout Europe and in parts of southwestern and southern Asia. Indo-European language, Indo-Hittite. natural language, tongue-a human written or spoken language used by a community; opposed to e.g. a computer language. 1. (Languages) denoting, belonging to, or relating to a family of languages that includes English and many other culturally and politically important languages of the world: a characteristic feature, esp of the older languages such as Latin, Greek, and Sanskrit, is inflection showing gender, number, and case.
The term Indo-European is essentially geographical since it refers to the easternmost extension of the family from the Indian subcontinent to its westernmost reach in Europe. The family includes most of the languages of Europe, as well as many languages of Southwest, Central and South Asia. In addition, Russian is spoken in Canada, China, Finland, Germany, Greece, India, Israel, and the U.S. Russian is listed among the ten most-spoken languages in the world (Wikipedia).” We will correct the entry in the Indo-European Language Family.
A language family is a group of languages related through descent from a common ancestor, called the proto-language of that family. A language isolated in its own branch within a family, such as Armenian within Indo-European, is often also called an isolate, but the meaning of isolate in such cases is usually clarified.
Indo-European language-the family of languages that by 1000 BC were spoken throughout Europe and in parts of southwestern and southern Asia. Indo-Hittite, Indo-European. natural language, tongue-a human written or spoken language used by a community; opposed to e.g. a computer language. Proto-Indo European, PIE-a prehistoric unrecorded language that was the ancestor of all Indo-European languages. Indo-Iranian, Indo-Iranian language-the branch of the Indo-European family of languages including the Indic and Iranian language groups. Anatolian, Anatolian language-an extinct branch of the Indo-European family of languages known from inscriptions and important in the reconstruction of Proto-Indo European. Greek, Hellenic, Hellenic language-the Hellenic branch of the Indo-European family of languages. 1  Facebook