The external abdominal obliques are a pair of broad, thin, superficial muscles that lie on the lateral sides of the abdominal region of the body. Contraction of these muscles may result in several different actions, but they are best known for their lateral flexion and rotation of the trunk known as a side bend. Contraction of one of the abdominal obliques results in the lateral flexion and rotation of the trunk on the opposite side; in other words, the left external oblique rotates and flexes the trunk to the right.
External oblique. The external oblique muscle is one of the largest parts of the trunk area. Each side of the body has an external oblique muscle. The external oblique muscle is one of the outermost abdominal muscles, extending from the lower half of the ribs around and down to the pelvis. Together, the external oblique muscles cover the sides of the abdominal area. The intercostal and subcostal nerves connect the external oblique muscles to the brain. The external obliques on either side not only help rotate the trunk, but they perform a few other vital functions.
The internal abdominal oblique muscle ends at the bottom edge of the rib cage, the rectus sheath (fibrous tissue that covers the abdominal muscles), and the pubic crest (an area in the lower-front of the pelvis). The internal abdominal oblique muscle is located closer to the skin than the transverse abdominal muscle. This muscle supports the abdominal wall, assists in forced respiration, aids in raising pressure in the abdominal area, and rotates and turns the trunk with help from other muscles. The internal abdominal oblique muscle is an opposing force to the diaphragm, reducing upper chest cavity volume during exhalation. As the diaphragm contracts, the chest cavity is pulled down to increase lung size.
The superior oblique muscle, or obliquus oculi superior, is a fusiform muscle originating in the upper, medial side of the orbit (i.e. from beside the nose) which abducts, depresses and internally rotates the eye. It is the only extraocular muscle innervated by the trochlear nerve (the fourth cranial nerve). 
The oblique muscle is the very large muscle running down the side of your body. It extends from your ribs into your abdomen. It’s job is to ensure pressure is maintained in your abdomen and to a lesser extent support of your spine. It’s a big reason your organs are held in place. 
Your have external obliques and internal obliques. The external oblique is the largest muscle closest to the surface on your side. Its main job is to pull the chest downwards and compress the abdominal cavity. The internal obliques, on the other hand, have two main jobs. First, it counteracts the diaphragm (the muscle that contracts excessively when you hiccup) so that you can exhale. Second, it allows you to rotate and bend from your trunk.
The external oblique muscle (of the abdomen) (also external abdominal oblique muscle) is the largest and the most superficial (outermost) of the three flat muscles of the lateral anterior abdomen. In most humans (especially females), the oblique is not visible, due to subcutaneous fat deposits and the small size of the muscle. It arises from eight fleshy digitations, each from the external surfaces and inferior borders of the fifth to twelfth ribs.
The most important symptoms of an oblique muscle strain are pain and stiffness. The strain may lead to a sharp pain along the lower chest and side of the abdomen due to forcefully bending or twisting the trunk. This pain occurs as the muscle fibers develop microscopic tears. 
A Todd Townes-Sharecare Fitness Expert, Fitness, answered on behalf of Sharecare Fitness. Your oblique muscles help you bend from side to side and twist your torso. If you obliques are strong the support the lower back and improve posture. The internal obliques, on the other hand, have two main jobs. First, it counteracts the diaphragm (the muscle that contracts excessively when you hiccup) so that you can exhale. Second, it allows you to rotate and bend from your trunk.