What is Software Engineering? Software Engineering is the discipline providing methods and tools for the construction of quality software with a limited budget and a given deadline, in the context of constant requirements change. 
Mechanical engineers are typically involved with the generation, distribution, and use of energy; the processing of materials; the control and automation of manufacturing systems; the design and development of machines; and the solutions to environmental problems. Mechanical engineers are in demand now, and projections for the future suggest a long-term need for professionals in this specialty. About 20% of the nearly 3 million engineers in the United States are mechanical engineers.
The role of a mechanical engineer is to take a product from an idea to the marketplace. In order to accomplish this, a broad range of skills are needed. The mechanical engineer needs to acquire particular skills and knowledge. To put it simply, mechanical engineering deals with anything that moves, including the human body, a very complex machine. Mechanical engineers learn about materials, solid and fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, control, instrumentation, design, and manufacturing to understand mechanical systems.
Engineering is applied to design, with emphasis on function and the utilization of mathematics and science. Engineers use their knowledge of science, mathematics, logic, economics, and appropriate experience or tacit knowledge to find suitable solutions to a problem. The discipline of engineering is extremely broad, and encompasses a range of more specialized fields of engineering, each with a more specific emphasis on particular areas of applied science, technology and types of application.
Answers. Best Answer: When I took CE in the early 80s... Academically, it is very similar to electrical engineering. You have to take a lot of math, physics, and electrical courses. Towards the end of my third year, the emphasis turned to programming, operating systems, and software project management. You should take math, physics, and programming in high school to prepare. I don't know what others get into, but I currently am in the Controls Engineering field. I do electrical design and programming of industrial equipment. I have been doing this for 24 years and enjoy it very much. I like the variety of work and I like programming and electrical design.
Mechanical engineering is concerned with the design, manufacture, and operation of components, devices, or systems such as: 1  Heat exchangers, refrigerators, ventilation systems. 2  Manufacturing technologies that include use of lasers, precision machinery, and nano-technology. 3  Biomedical devices. Mechanical engineers are in demand now, and projections for the future suggest a long-term need for professionals in this specialty. About 20% of the nearly 3 million engineers in the United States are mechanical engineers.
Engineering is the application of mathematics, empirical evidence and scientific, economic, social, and practical knowledge in order to invent, design, build, maintain, research, and improve structures, machines, tools, systems, components, materials, and processes. The discipline of engineering is extremely broad, and encompasses a range of more specialized fields of engineering, each with a more specific emphasis on particular areas of applied science, technology and types of application.
Computer engineering is a discipline that integrates several fields of electrical engineering and computer science required to develop computer hardware and software. Computer software engineers can also work in application design. This involves designing or coding new programs and applications to meet the needs of a business or individual. Computer software engineers can also work as freelancers and sell their software products/applications to an enterprise/
1.8k Views. Yes,Civil Engineers have to know a lot of physics, especially structural engineers. Physics is an integral part of structural engineering, Using the concept of moment and force balance, bending moment and shear stress is determined for every structural member. 1.4k Views. Civil engineering involves physics because it deals with works like roads, bridges, canals, dams and buildings, all which are physical structures subject to physical conditions, like wind, precipitation and seismic loads.
Mechanical engineering is a diverse subject that derives its breadth from the need to design and manufacture everything from small individual parts and devices (e.g., microscale sensors and inkjet printer nozzles) to large systems (e.g., spacecraft and machine tools). To put it simply, mechanical engineering deals with anything that moves, including the human body, a very complex machine. Mechanical engineers learn about materials, solid and fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, control, instrumentation, design, and manufacturing to understand mechanical systems.