The California Dental Licensure Examination is the qualifying examination for a California dental license. However, this is the last step in a longer process of education and examinations that international dentists must complete to practice in the state. If your dental school has not been approved by the state board, there are a number of steps you must follow in order to receive licensure in California. This section explains the important steps that you need to complete before you can be licensed to practice dentistry
The practice of dentistry in Canada is overseen by the National Dental Examining Board of Canada (NDEB) in conjunction with other agencies, such as The Commission on Dental Accreditation of Canada and The Royal College of Dentists of Canada. 
Regulation. As a dentist, you must be licensed to practice dentistry in the State of California. The Dental Board of California regulates the profession. It give California licenses by both Acceptance of Examination (for first time licenses) and by endorsement of existing licenses from other states. If your dental school has not been approved by the state board, there are a number of steps you must follow in order to receive licensure in California. This section explains the important steps that you need to complete before you can be licensed to practice dentistry
Getting Licensed in the United States –. Tips for International Dental Students. Many dentists and dental students educated outside the United States and Canada wish to obtain a dental license to practice in the U.S. To become licensed to do so, internationally-trained dentists must follow these steps: 1 Determine the state(s) where you wish to obtain a license and contact the state board(s) of dentistry to obtain specific licensure requirements and a sample application. 2  Click here for requirements by state. 3  Take the NBDE Part I administered by the ADA Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE).
State Licensure for US Dentists. Though requirements vary from state to state, all applicants for dental licensure must meet three basic requirements; an education requirement, a written examination requirement and a clinical examination requirement. Candidates for dental licenses in most U.S. licensing jurisdictions are subject to a clinical examination requirement 1. Each state board of dentistry establishes its clinical examination requirement. Most state boards of dentistry rely on a regional testing agency to administer a clinical examination
Foreign-trained professionals must obtain a license to practice in the U.S. To obtain your license you must be a graduate of an accredited U.S. dental hygiene program, take the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination and pass a state or regional clinical licensure exam. 
The practice of these professions is a privilege granted by the State. The Board of Dentistry is responsible for licensure, monitoring and ensuring the safe practice of dentists and dental hygienists in their service to the people of Florida. The Florida Board of Dentistry was established to ensure that every dentist and dental hygienist practicing in this state meets minimum requirements for safe practice.
Dentists educated outside the United States and Canada may take steps to obtain a license to practice dentistry in the United States. The state dental licensure process consists of numerous requirements and can be complex. 