1. A PhD takes twice as long as a bachelor's degree to complete. The average student takes 8.2 years to slog through a PhD program and is 33 years old before earning that top diploma. By that age, most Americans with mere bachelor's degree are well into establishing themselves professionally. 2. Professors will exploit you
Instructions. Visit the Peterson's website to select schools that offer a PhD. in history. This one-stop site saves your valuable time with links to application packets, Ph.D. fellowship links and exam information. If you want to save retrieve your data for future use, register for a free account here. 
Full-time Ph.D. candidates typically take advanced courses during their first 2-3 years of study. The number of course credits required to get a Ph.D. may vary widely, depending on the university's semester or quarter schedule and the doctoral program. Students must first take advanced courses in their field for a few years, followed by a set of comprehensive exams. After this is accomplished, Ph.D. students produce a dissertation project, which can vary in its time to completion.
How to Get a Doctorate in History. A doctorate is the highest degree one can attain in the study of history, and is the prerequisite for teaching and doing research at the university level. Often earned in 5 to 8 years and requiring the completion of a book-length dissertation, a PhD in history is not easy to finish. Study history at the undergraduate level. 1  Because of its particular research methods and the broad background needed, the study of history must begin in college. 2  It is very difficult to get into doctoral programs without having been a history major.
Many new doctoral students find that their master’s coursework doesn’t transfer. If you enroll in a master’s program recognize that it will likely not make a dent in your required doctoral coursework. Your PhD will likely take an additional 4 to 6 years after earning your master’s degree. Pro: A master’s may help you get into a doctoral program.
Generally, it will take you about one to one and a half years less time to earn your Psy.D. compared to a Ph.D. For your Ed.D. degree, you will need 3-5 years to complete it. It is important to remember that many applicants to Ed.D. degree programs already have a master’s degree in a related speciality. 
A PhD is the highest degree you can get. However, it's not a medical degree. It's a research degree. A medical degree is an MD, which takes 4 years of med school after the bachelors, and includes internships/residency after that (3-5 years). Best Answer: Bachelors = 4 years Masters = 2 more years PhD = 4 to 6 more years Combined Masters and PhD = 6 to 8 years more than a bachelors. However, to prescribe medicine that is a who different ball game. You have to go to medical school for that. A person with a PhD cannot prescribe. You need an MD to do that
The decision to pursue a PhD after getting your Masters degree is a difficult one. A PhD is a huge undertaking emotionally, mentally and financially. It takes 3-4 years to complete during which you are on a pretty basic stipend (ok, you’re poor). 
A PhD usually requires at least five to six years and many people take seven to nine years. Money required for a PHD vs Masters. The old adage time is money was never so true as with graduate school; as a PhD takes longer to complete, it also requires more money. 