The way you hold hands with your partner says something about your relationship. Holding hands is an act as common as they come. Pop stars sing about it, animals embrace it and scientists continue to study it, according to Elite Daily’s Lydia Mansel. Even people 700 years ago did it. 
Body language of Proximity: When reading the body language of holding hands it is important to look at how close the people are in relation to each other. It’s not just how close they are but it’s also how they hold each others hand. There are times where the hand may be getting rubbed by either person. Body language of possession. When looking at the proximity of the men and women holding hands there are times where the bodies of the men and or the women are just too close, at sometimes just flat out awkward to look at.
If you are one of those individuals who doesn’t like holding hands period, think about why and what emotions toward your partner and the relationship cause that reaction. This simple gesture gives a real sense of nonverbal connection, intimacy and communication. Posted on October 3, 2013 by Nicole. Body language is most often subconscious. Hand-holding is part of our body language and can help you learn a lot about how your partner feels by focusing on the way that he or she holds your hand. There are some feelings our partners may not want to verbalize but instead their subconscious body language can reveal these emotions if you pay atten
RE: Different types of hand holding? You know how there are different ways you can hold some ones hand (just clamped, or intertwined)? The other day I went out to a party with my friend and I was leading him into the house by holding the tips of his fingers. HE changed the way we were holding hands and made it so that our fingers were laced together. You know how there are different ways you can hold some ones hand (just clamped, or intertwined)? The other day I went out to a party with my friend and I was leading him into the house by holding the tips of his fingers. HE changed the way we were holding hands and made it so that our fingers were...
1. The Passive Hand Hold. This is hand holding in its simplest form: your sweetheart’s hand gently but firmly cupped in yours. It’s most appropriate for public environments where you want to remain tasteful and avoid looking “clingy,” but is still a great, effective way to add physicality to your romantic relationship. 5 The Two-Hand Hold. Here’s another technique that is tough to do while standing, but one of the best ways to add some serious physicality and intimacy to hand holding. Taking your sweetheart’s hand in both of yours will give them a deep sense of security, importance and calm. 6.
3. The One-Finger Hand Hold. Holding just one of your lover’s fingers is a more romantically playful method for times when you’re feeling flirtatious. This is the easiest hand hold for your sweetheart to pull away from, but is still a great way to add some fun intimacy to the mix. 4. 5 The Two-Hand Hold. Here’s another technique that is tough to do while standing, but one of the best ways to add some serious physicality and intimacy to hand holding. Taking your sweetheart’s hand in both of yours will give them a deep sense of security, importance and calm. 6.
Holding hands or other interactions with hands represents feelings for a particular person and the expectant reaction from the other side. It is a strong reflection of your inner feelings about a person with whom you want to develop friendship with. Position of dreams of holding hands in real life. To dream about holding hands is of special kind and gives a reflection of your inner sense and situation. If you get these dreams too often then you should understand the need of sharing a strong bond with someone is cultivating inside the mind.
Reactions: Holding hands may seem like an innocent gesture, but they show more than a simple interlocking of fingers. Your hands are one of the most essential parts of your body: you build with them, feed with them, hold with them, touch with them, fight with them; they are the tools of the human body. 