TJ Maxx Inc laborers see wages hovering around $9.09 per hour. Adding overtime bumps the median up to $14.94. For the most part, employee paychecks at TJ Maxx Inc fluctuate depending on how long you've been working; what you do at the company and your city also matter, but to a lesser degree. The data in this summary comes from the PayScale salary survey. Employer: TJ Maxx Inc. Hourly Rate Range by Job.
She said the pay increase would help the company “remain competitive on wages in US markets.”. The retailer’s announcement comes a week after Walmart said it would boost minimum pay for 500,000 employees nationwide to $9 an hour by April and $10 an hour by February 2016. Clothing retailer Gap raised its minimum hourly wage to $9 last year and plans to boost it to $10 this year. Ikea, the Swedish furniture store chain, this year raised the minimum wage at its US locations to $10.76 a month.
By state, the highest pay levels are found in Indiana, where the average TJ Maxx Inc employee makes $11.50 per hour. TJ Maxx Inc workers who hold an Associate's Degree are also well compensated, earning $8.48 on average. For the most part, employee paychecks at TJ Maxx Inc fluctuate depending on how long you've been working; what you do at the company and your city also matter, but to a lesser degree. The data in this summary comes from the PayScale salary survey. Employer: TJ Maxx Inc. Hourly Rate Range by Job.
Confidence votes 34. TJ Maxx employees generally start at minimum wage, unless you have an IMPRESSIVE history of retail experience. About once a year, managers and their employees go through what is called an employee review
TJX, which is based in Framingham and operates T.J. Maxx and Marshalls chains in 49 states, follows Walmart and Gap in boosting their pay well above the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. The minimum wage in Massachusetts rose to $9 an hour on Jan. 1. Clothing retailer Gap raised its minimum hourly wage to $9 last year and plans to boost it to $10 this year. Ikea, the Swedish furniture store chain, this year raised the minimum wage at its US locations to $10.76 a month.
In addition to higher starting wages, TJX, which has 191,000 workers globally that restock shelves, greet customers and ring up purchases, said that in 2016, the company plans to pay all workers who have worked at its stores for more than six months at least $10 per hour. The average hourly pay is $9.93 for cashiers and low-level retail sales staff, according to Hay Group's survey of 140 retailers with annual sales of $500 million. Whatever the major players in the U.S. retail industry decide to do will have a big impact on the job market as a whole.
TJ MAXX Salary. TJ MAXX average salary is $41,334, median salary is $41,000 with a salary range from $41,000 to $42,000. TJ MAXX salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. TJ MAXX salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
NEW YORK (AP) -- The owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and HomeGoods stores became the latest retailer to boost pay for its U.S. workers, putting pressure on other chains to do the same. TJX Cos. said Wednesday that it will increase pay for its U.S. workers to at least $9 an hour starting in June. The average hourly pay is $9.93 for cashiers and low-level retail sales staff, according to Hay Group's survey of 140 retailers with annual sales of $500 million. Whatever the major players in the U.S. retail industry decide to do will have a big impact on the job market as a whole.
FILE-In this Nov. 17, 2009 file photo, a customer walks past a T.J. Maxx store in Boston. TJX Cos., the owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and Home Goods stores, on Wednesday, Feb. 25, 2015 said it will boost pay for U.S. workers to at least $9 per hour. The average hourly pay is $9.93 for cashiers and low-level retail sales staff, according to Hay Group's survey of 140 retailers with annual sales of $500 million. Whatever the major players in the U.S. retail industry decide to do will have a big impact on the job market as a whole.