Most dissolvable stitches start to break down within one to two weeks. However, it could take several months before your stitches disappear completely. After the wound has healed, it may be possible for a nurse to remove the loose ends of the dissolvable stitches, to speed up the process. Ask your surgeon or the health professional treating you if they can tell you: 1  what kind of stitches you’ve been given. 2  how long they will take to dissolve. There are several other different types of stitches. In general, if your stitches are dissolvable, they should start to break down within four weeks. Some may take six months to
Not the same situation but I've had stitches for oral dentistry and it took less then two weeks for external stitches to go away....and my pet went thru surgery and it took just a couple of weeks for her outward stitches to go away. So I'd think yours would go away in a week or two. sophieb · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Report Abuse. Probably around a week, maybe two. My mom just had some minor surgery and they said her stitches would take about 5 days to dissolve. I don't know if they all work the same way. But basically, they need to be there long enough for your body to hold the incision together without the help of stitches, and that's gonna take a few days
Internal stitches usually take between 6 and 8 weeks to dissolve.  It is normal to be able to feel them and is important not to rub or  poke at the surgical site. 
In the UK, most dissolvable stitches are made of:: 1  polyglactin: this should lose 25% of its strength after two weeks, 50% of its strength after three weeks, and fully dissolve after three months. There are several other different types of stitches. In general, if your stitches are dissolvable, they should start to break down within four weeks. Some may take six months to disappear completely.
Okay so I had my gallbladder removed through keyhole surgery about 3 and a half weeks ago. 5 days after the surgery I went to my practice nurse and she said I had 4 kinds of stitches (internal, external, paper and dissolvable) she said this was very unusual but it does depend on the surgeon. I asked about the..
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Internal stitches usually take between 6 and 8 weeks to dissolve. It is normal to be able to feel them and is important not to rub or poke at the surgical site. 
I had my 6 week check up on Monday and a lot of my stitches have not dissolved either. My doctor said no sex yet. I asked how I would know if they had dissolved and she said that I would need to come back to be checked. Stitches still hanging in there just fine. I asked my doc if they were dissolving yet and he said no that the way he ties them he doesnt expect them to dissolve until 6 to 8 weeks. Since I do not have another visit with him until 6 months from now, I asked him when it would be safe to resume intercourse.
Best Answer: It depends on what kind of suture material used. Dissolvable suture is absorbed into the body by enzymatic degradation. If plain catgut (which is made from collagen and cow intestine) is used, absorption is complete in 90 days. If Chromic catgut is used, then absorption is complete in 70 days. Report Abuse. Probably around a week, maybe two. My mom just had some minor surgery and they said her stitches would take about 5 days to dissolve. I don't know if they all work the same way. But basically, they need to be there long enough for your body to hold the incision together without the help of stitches, and that's gonna take a few
Dissolvable Stitches. Instead of focusing on traditional stitches, many doctors are using dissolvable stitches. These stitches can be used on internal or external wounds and do not need to be removed like normal stitches, cutting down on the trauma of helping to manage your wound. It often takes 1-2 weeks for such stitches to dissolve, during which you should also take care for them. The length of time needed for your stitches to dissolve will depend on what they are made of. Most of these stitches will disappear in as little as 1-2 weeks. After your injury has healed, a nurse will go over the area and remove any ends of the stitches that may be remaining.