The difference A genetic disorder is something an individual is born with, and results from a problem within their genetic material. This means they have inherited the disease or disorder from their Mother or Father. An infectious disease is contagious, meaning it can be spread via bodily fluids, such as HIV, tuberculosis, etc. A genetic disease is a disease that is inherited from a relati … ve that has the same condition or carries the gene for the disease. 1 person found this useful.
Disease. A disease is an abnormal state in the human body, psyche or the interpersonal negotiations, which causes greater levels of morbidity and mortality. It is usually associated with symptoms and signs. The disease may be caused by congenital, traumatic, toxic, infectious, inflammatory, neoplastic, metabolic, degenerative, iatrogenic, vascular, etc. One of the most common causes is the infective organisms, which include bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses. Metabolic causes, give rise to a set of the most common present day diseases, namely diabetes mellitus.
Virus latency (or viral latency) is the ability of a pathogenic virus to lie dormant (latent) within a cell, denoted as the lysogenic part of the viral life cycle. A latent viral infection is a type of persistent viral infection which is distinguished from a chronic viral infection. Latency is the phase in certain viruses' life cycles in which, after initial infection, proliferation of virus particles ceases. However, the viral genome is not fully eradicated.
by Dr.Dinusha. Virus vs Disease. It was Hippocrates, who is famed to have claimed that diseases of the human body are due to physical tangible causes, and not the acts of demons, spirits or capricious gods. One of the most common causes is the infective organisms, which include bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses. Metabolic causes, give rise to a set of the most common present day diseases, namely diabetes mellitus.
Genetic Disease Related Diseases & Conditions. Medical conditions are often related to other diseases and conditions. Our doctors have compiled a list of ailments related to the topic of Genetic Disease. These conditions may be a cause or symptom of Genetic Disease or be a condition for which you may be at increased risk. Anemia Anemia is the condition of having less than the normal number of red blood cells or less than the normal quantity of hemoglobin...learn more ». Leigh's Disease (Leigh's Syndrome) Leigh's disease (Leigh's syndrome) is a rare genetic neurometabolic disorder. The symptoms of Leigh's disease include loss of
Treatment and prevention. Knowing the genetic sequence of a virus can help in disease prevention, allowing for more rapid vaccine development. A vaccine typically contains either a milder version of the virus or individual viral proteins that are made in a lab. Fortunately, today scientists can use genetic tools, such as DNA sequencing, to learn about new strains of viruses. These tools are helping researchers identify the cause of an infection, piece together a story about where new viruses come from, diagnose new cases, and develop preventive vaccines.
Single gene inheritance, also called Mendelian or monogenetic inheritance. This type of inheritance is caused by changes or mutations that occur in the DNA sequence of a single gene. There are more than 6,000 known single-gene disorders, which occur in about 1 out of every 200 births. 
Viruses share genes. If a cell is infected by two different viruses at the same time, the viruses may exchange genetic information. This process can generate new and potentially very dangerous viruses, including ones that can jump from one species to another. Fortunately, today scientists can use genetic tools, such as DNA sequencing, to learn about new strains of viruses. These tools are helping researchers identify the cause of an infection, piece together a story about where new viruses come from, diagnose new cases, and develop preventive vaccines.
1 Human Genetic Diseases Genetic diseases can occur when a person has a mistake, or mutation, in their DNA. 2  Your DNA contains the blueprints for the proteins that keep your cells and organs functioni…. 3  PTSD: Causes, Diagnosis, and Treatment Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a type of anxiety disorder. An infectious disease is contagious, meaning it can be spread via bodily fluids, such as HIV, tuberculosis, etc. A genetic disease is a disease that is inherited from a relati … ve that has the same condition or carries the gene for the disease. 1 person found this useful.