You can store hard-boiled eggs peeled or unpeeled for about a week in the refrigerator. They are great deviled or in egg salad  or even added to mac and cheese and casseroles. Tip: Hard-boiled eggs are perishable; don't let them sit at room temperature for more than two hours. Step 1: Place the Eggs in a Pan of Water and Bring to a Boil. For hard-boiled eggs, put the eggs in a pan and cover them with cold water. This way you'll have less of a chance of breaking them. Bring to a boil, put a lid on it and turn off the heat. Let it stand for 10 to 15 minute
Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors. 
To hard-cook eggs, place them in a deep saucepan and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over high heat, cover, remove from heat, and let stand 13 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to transfer eggs to an ice-water bath to stop the cooking. 
Instructions. 1  Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  Turn off the heat and cover the pan. 
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off. Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more
Hard-cooked (boiled) eggs: A hard-cooked egg has both a firm white and yolk. Hard-cooked eggs should never be boiled-always simmer them in water. If cooked too long, the protein toughens (becomes rubbery) and a greenish or purplish ring forms around the yolk. An egg that is at room temperature at the start of the cooking process will require about 1 minute less cooking time than eggs taken directly from the refrigerator. 4. Technique for hard-cooking (boiled) eggs: Choose the right size pot to cook your eggs in: The eggs must not be stacked but be in one (1) layer only.
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time. An egg that is at room temperature at the start of the cooking process will require about 1 minute less cooking time than eggs taken directly from the refrigerator. 4. Technique for hard-cooking (boiled) eggs: Choose the right size pot to cook your eggs in: The eggs must not be stacked but be in one (1) layer only.
Set timer for 17 minutes for large eggs or 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. After 17 or 20 minutes (depending on size of your eggs), remove lid and drain off water from the eggs. Watch the time when cooking the eggs carefully. An egg that is at room temperature at the start of the cooking process will require about 1 minute less cooking time than eggs taken directly from the refrigerator. 4. Technique for hard-cooking (boiled) eggs: Choose the right size pot to cook your eggs in: The eggs must not be stacked but be in one (1) layer only.