Blackfoot (also called Blackfeet, Pikanii) is an Algonquin language spoken by the Native American Blackfoot tribe. Primarily, it is spoken in southern Alberta. However, it is also spoken in Montana. There are about 5,000 Blackfoot speakers in Canada, and 5,100 speakers total. Schools on Blackfoot preserves are working to encourage the use of the language. In certain areas, Blackfoot is still used as the principle language among older Native Americans. Younger Blackfoot generations prefer English
Blackfoot Language. The Blackfoot language is important to the Blackfoot. It helps them understand their relationship with the rest of Creation and reinforces their values and beliefs. The Blackfoot language in this website uses the Kainai version for many of the words and concepts. We hope this will help preserve Blackfoot and encourage others to learn the language.
There is a distinct difference between Old Blackfoot (also called High Blackfoot), the dialect spoken by many older speakers; and New Blackfoot (also called Modern Blackfoot), the dialect spoken by younger speakers. Among the Algonquian languages, Blackfoot is relatively divergent in phonology and lexicon. Like the other Algonquian languages, Blackfoot is typologically polysynthetic. The Cuts Wood Academy in Browning, Montana, founded by Darrell Kipp and the Piegan Institute, offers language immersion instruction in Blackfoot. Blackfoot language has been on a drastic decline in the number of native speakers and now faces extinction in the early 21st century. Once, the Blackfoot people were one of a few Native American nations that inhabited the Great Plains west of the Mississippi river.
The Blackfoot Confederacy or Niitsitapi (ᖹᐟᒧᐧᒣᑯ, meaning original people) is the collective name of three First Nation band governments in the provinces of Saskatchewan, Alberta, and British Columbia. It is also a Native American tribe in Montana, United States. The Niitsitapi, also known as the Blackfoot Indians, reside in the Great Plains of Montana and the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan. Only one of the Niitsitapi tribes are called Blackfoot or Siksika. The name is said to have come from the color of the peoples’ moccasins, made of leather.
1 Each of the four tribes, although independent, share one official language called Algonquian. 2  This language is also spoken by many other Indian tribes in the U.S. 3  The Europeans arrival in the 1800's meant big changes for the Blackfoot. Blackfoot Indian Facts. The Blackfoot, who are also called Blackfeet, Indians were originally a nomadic American Indian tribe that migrated from the Great Lakes region to the Northwestern United States. They lived in the Northern Great Plains, specifically in Montana and Idaho as well as Alberta Canada
Blackfoot is an Algonquian language spoken primarily in Alberta and Montana. There are approximately 5000 speakers in Canada, and another 100 in Montana (Gordon 2005). Blackfoot is an endangered language, as it is no longer common for children to learn the language. 
Blackfoot, also known as Siksika (ᓱᖽᐧᖿ) – the language's denomination in ISO 639-3 – Pikanii, Pied Noir, and Blackfeet, is the Algonquian language spoken by the Blackfoot tribes of Native Americans, who currently live in the northwestern plains of North America. Nearly all speakers live in Canada. Blackfoot language has been on a drastic decline in the number of native speakers and now faces extinction in the early 21st century. Once, the Blackfoot people were one of a few Native American nations that inhabited the Great Plains west of the Mississippi river.