A: Typically 24 hours after the last coat is applied your floors should be dry enough to walk on and place furniture on. Even though the floors are dry the finish will still be soft therefore you must wait 10 to 14 days before you place any area rugs down. This will ensure your floor cures properly. Polyurethane won t dry in the cold so be certain your heat is set and functioning.
Antique floors were often 1 thick when originally installed. Depending on how much sanding they ve already had will depend on how many more sandings it can withstand. Depression flooring (flooring installed in the 1930 s) is much thinner and often can t be refinished but once.
On average, you can walk on the floors approximately 24 hours after the application of the final coat. We recommend that for hours 24-48 that you wear socks only-no shoes, no bare feet. Click here for more info on How long does it take to refinish hardwood floors.
What should I do to prepare for the day my floors are going to be sanded? 1  Take your pet to a friend’s house or keep them locked in another area of the house. 2  If you remove carpet yourself, be careful not to damage the wood. 3  Remove all of the furniture from the room and empty the closets. 4  Remove all pictures or art work from the walls, as the 5  ... Re
Q: When can I walk on my new wood floors? A: Please wait 4 to 6 hours before walking on floors with stocking feet and 24 hours for shoes. Allow 48 hours for furniture and pets and 1 -2 weeks before placing carpets or other area rugs. Also avoid using water on the floor for one week. Click here for more information and floor care recommendations.
After my floors are refinished, how long should I wait before walking on or placing furniture on them? Typically, 24 hours after the last coat is applied your floors should be dry enough to walk on and place furniture on. Even though the floors are dry, it will take the finish about 21 days to fully cure.
It has been just about 24 hours after the last coat (3rd coat) of oil-based poly and it is dry but the floor doesn’t feel that smooth to me. A month ago we had the same process on another part of the house and this floor feels much smoother.
1 Take your pet to a friend’s house or keep them locked in another area of the house. 2  If you remove carpet yourself, be careful not to damage the wood. 3  Remove all of the furniture from the room and empty the closets. 4  Remove all pictures or art work from the walls, as the machines are heavy and they vibrate.