This group of tests measures the amount of cholesterol and triglycerides in your blood. Cholesterol and triglycerides are fats (lipids). This panel measures: Total cholesterol. HDL (good) cholesterol. LDL (bad) cholesterol. Triglycerides. Total cholesterol is a measurement of both good and bad cholesterol. LDL cholesterol moves cholesterol into your arteries. HDL cholesterol moves cholesterol out of your arteries. A high HDL cholesterol number lowers your risk for coronary heart disease
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level
A. Lipids provide the body with energy and are found in cellular tissue. A lipid panel is a blood test that measures fats and fatty substances used by your body. These fats ,called lipids, measure cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein –“good cholesterol “- (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein- “bad cholesterol”- (LDL). 
The results of the lipid profile are considered along with other known risk factors of heart disease to develop a plan of treatment and follow-up. Depending on the results and other risk factors, treatment options may involve lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise or lipid-lowering medications such as statins. 1 Total cholesterol — this test measures all of the cholesterol in all the lipoprotein particles. 2  High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) — measures the cholesterol in HDL particles; often called good cholesterol because it removes excess cholesterol and carries it to the liver for removal.
A lipid panel, which is sometimes known as a lipid profile, is a blood test that measures for high cholesterol or fat.... A blood lipid test measures the levels of HDL (high-density lipoprotein) cholesterol and LDL (low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol in the blood as well as triglycerides.
The Lipids Panel can determine if you have abnormal cholesterol or triglyceride levels. These are important because they can also help you and your doctor determine if you’re at risk for heart disease or other coronary (heart) illnesses. Cholesterol is fat that is produced by the liver. 
Cholesterol Tests: the Good, Bad, the Fatty. Cholesterol is a form of fat that's not all bad -- a certain amount is essential for life. Cholesterol helps provide stability to the outer membranes of our bodies' cells. But cholesterol can have harmful effects. LDL -- or bad -- cholesterol can deposit in blood vessel walls. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level.
A lipid panel blood test measures the cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the blood. It is also called a cholesterol test or lipid profile. A blood lipid test measures the levels of HDL (high-density lipoprotein) cholesterol and LDL (low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol in the blood as well as triglycerides.
The lipid profile is used as part of a cardiac risk assessment to help determine an individual's risk of heart disease and to help make decisions about what treatment may be best if there is borderline or high risk. 1 Total cholesterol — this test measures all of the cholesterol in all the lipoprotein particles. 2  High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) — measures the cholesterol in HDL particles; often called good cholesterol because it removes excess cholesterol and carries it to the liver for removal.
A lipid panel is a blood test that measures lipids-fats and fatty substances used as a source of energy by your body. Lipids include cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) , and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) . This panel measures: 1  Total cholesterol level. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check.