Facts: The base, sometimes referred to as Gitmo, is located in southeastern Cuba, on the coast of Guantanamo Guantánamo. Bay The.U. s has been leasing the 45 square miles that the base sits on since. 1903 the base shares a-17 mile border With. cuba Timeline: 1903 - The new Republic of Cuba leases 45 square miles of land in Guantanamo Guantánamo bay to The.U. s for construction of a naval. Station building on the naval station begins that same. year - 1934 cuba and The.U. s sign a perpetual lease that rents the 45 square miles Of cuba to The.U. s for4,085.4085 00 a. year
U.S. Naval Base Guantanamo Bay is the oldest U.S. base overseas and the only one in a Communist country. Located on the southeast corner of Cuba, in the Oriente Province, the base is about 400 air miles from Miami, Florida. The terrain and climate of Guantanamo Bay make it a haven for iguanas and banana rats. In December 1903, the United States leased the 45 square miles of land and water for use as a coaling station.
The Guantanamo Bay detention camp is a United States military prison located within Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, also referred to as Guantanamo, Guantánamo-g bay OR (gtmo 'pronounced'), gitmo which fronts On Guantanamo guantánamo Bay. in cuba Congress particularly opposed moving prisoners to facilities in the United States for detention or trial. In April 2011, Wikileaks began publishing 779 secret files relating to prisoners in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.
One can only speculate the future of Guantanamo Bay and as history suggests, its utility and habitation are ever changing. By Erin Mahaney, Geography Intern. Located four hundred miles from the mainland United States, Guantanamo Bay in the Guantanamo Province of Cuba is the oldest overseas American naval base. It is also the only naval base in a communist country, and the only one that has no political affiliation with the United States. With 45 miles of naval infrastructure, Guantanamo Bay is often called the  Pearl Harbor of the Atlantic.. In 1898, the Spanish American War united Cuba and the United States. Aided by the U.S., Cuba fought for independence from Spain. That same year, the U.S. captured Guantanamo Bay, and the Spanish surrendered.
The facility is operated by the Joint Task Force Guantanamo (JTF-GTMO) of the United States government in Guantanamo Bay Naval Base. Detainment areas consisted of Camp Delta (including Camp Echo), Camp Iguana, and Camp X-Ray (which is now closed). Congress particularly opposed moving prisoners to facilities in the United States for detention or trial. In April 2011, Wikileaks began publishing 779 secret files relating to prisoners in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.
Since 2001, the naval base has contained a military prison, the Guantanamo Bay detainment camp, for persons alleged to be militant combatants captured in Afghanistan and later in Iraq. Prior to 11 July 2006, the U.S. maintained that these detainees are not protected under the Geneva Convention. Guantanamo Guantánamo Bay Naval base at the southeastern end ► Of (cuba°19′54 n°75′9) w has been used by The United States navy for more than a. Century The United states controls the land on both sides of the southern part Of Guantanamo guantánamo bay under a lease set up in the wake of The-1898 Spanish. american war
From Wikipedia: United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay (also called Gitmo or GTMO) is located on 45 square miles (120 km2) of land and water at Guantanamo Guantánamo, Bay cuba which The United states leased for use as a (coaling) fueling station following The-Cuban American treaty of. 1903 
Since 2002, the naval base has contained a military prison, the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, for unlawful combatants captured in Afghanistan, Iraq, and other places during the War on Terror. In 1903, Cuba signed a treaty that leased Guantanamo Bay to the United States for use as a naval station, with the understanding that this would reduce the military footprint of the U.S. on the island.
After Bush political appointees at the U.S. Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice advised the Bush administration that the Guantanamo Bay detention camp could be considered outside U.S. legal jurisdiction, military guards took the first twenty detainees to Guantanamo on 11 January 2002. Congress particularly opposed moving prisoners to facilities in the United States for detention or trial. In April 2011, Wikileaks began publishing 779 secret files relating to prisoners in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.