The dichromate ion in aqueous solution is in equilibrium with the chromate ion, and this can be shown with the following equation: This is a dynamic equilibrium and as such is sensitive to the acidity or basicity of the solution. The addition of concentrated acids, such as sulfuric acid into chromate/dichromate solution causes further shifting of the equilibrium, and more intense colors, turning the solution to carmine-red.
Sodium chromate, Na 2 CrO 4, is also a yellow crystalline substance, with a density of 2.72 g/cm 3 and a melting point of 790°C. A hygroscopic compound, it is soluble in water: 80.2 g in 100 g of water at 19.5°C. chromate. any salt or ester of chromic acid. Simple chromate salts contain the divalent ion, CrO 4 2-- , and are orange.
It is commonly made in the laboratory by reacting a lead(II) salt (such as lead(II) nitrate) with a chromate or dichromate salt (such as potassium chromate or potassium dichromate) in solution in water, producing a very deep yellow to orange precipitate of lead(II) chromate. Lead(II) chromate is used in some pyrotechnic compositions, especially delay compositions, as an oxidizer. Up to the late 1800s it was used to impart a bright yellow color to some types of candy. It has also been used in the paint to color school buses.(Chrome Yellow). Previously, its use was wider.
Main Image: Chromate conversion coating is a kind of coating done by the deposition of a layer of oxide on its surface used to, generally, make the materials such as aluminum, zinc, cadmium, copper, silver, magnesium inactive. Zinc chromate is obtained from the process of chromate coating. The process that is used extensively for zinc chromating is known as “Cronak process” which includes of 5–10 seconds of dipping at room temperature in a solution of 182 g/l sodium dichromate crystals (Na2Cr2O72H2O) and 6 ml/l concentrated sulfuric acid.
Potassium chromate, K 2 CrO 4, is a yellow crystalline substance, with a density of 2.732 g/cm 3 and a melting point of 968.3°C. It is readily soluble in water: 62.9 g at 20°C and 79.2 g at 100°C in 100 g of water. It is produced by the action of potassium hydroxide, KOH, on potassium dichromate, K 2 Cr 2 O 7. chromate. any salt or ester of chromic acid. Simple chromate salts contain the divalent ion, CrO 4 2-- , and are orange.
Aluminium and aluminium alloys are treated by a corrosion resistant conversion coating that is called chromate coating or chromating. General method is to clean the aluminium surface and then apply an acidic chromium composition on that clean surface. 
Chromate salts contain the chromate anion, CrO 4 2− . Dichromate salts contain the dichromate anion, Cr 2 O 7 2− . They are oxoanions of chromium in the oxidation state +6. They are moderately strong oxidizing agents. In an aqueous solution, chromate and dichromate ions can be interconvertible
Noun. 1. chromate-any salt or ester of chromic acid. lead chromate-a poisonous chromate of lead used as a pigment in paint. salt-a compound formed by replacing hydrogen in an acid by a metal (or a radical that acts like a metal).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lead(II) chromate (Pb Cr O4) is a chemical compound, a chromate of lead. It has a vivid yellow color and is practically insoluble in water, and as a result, is used in paints under the name chrome yellow. Lead(II) chromate is used in some pyrotechnic compositions, especially delay compositions, as an oxidizer. Up to the late 1800s it was used to impart a bright yellow color to some types of candy. It has also been used in the paint to color school buses.(Chrome Yellow). Previously, its use was wider.