Levels of alkaline phosphatase -- an enzyme in the blood -- can be elevated by liver disease, or less serious conditions including pregnancy and over-the-counter drug use. See your doctor to discuss any concerns you may have after a blood test. 
An alkaline phosphatase level test (ALP test) measures the amount of alkaline phosphatase enzyme in your bloodstream. The test requires a simple blood draw and is often a routine part of other blood tests. Abnormal levels of ALP in your blood most often indicate a problem with your liver and/or bones. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in your bloodstream. ALP helps break down proteins in the body and exists in different forms, depending on where it originates. It is mostly produced in your liver, but some is also made in your bones, intestines, and kidneys.
Alkaline Phosphatase. Guide. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones. 
A food's acid or alkaline-forming tendency in the body has nothing to do with the actual pH of the food itself. For example: Though lemons, limes, and grapefruits are chemically acid, tests show that when they are metabolized in the body they actually have an alkalizing effect and are very beneficial. pH (potential of hydrogen) is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution. The pH is measured on a scale of 0 to 14--the lower the pH the more acidic the solution, the higher the pH the more alkaline (or base) the solution. When a body is healthy, the pH of blood is 7.4, the pH of urine is 7.4, and the pH of saliva is 7.4. The pH of saliva or urine parallels the extra cellular fluid. Certain areas of the body should be more acidic than others-such as the stomach. Other areas should be more on the alkaline side
• ALKALINE (adjective). The adjective ALKALINE has 1 sense: 1. relating to or containing an alkali; having a pH greater than 7. Familiarity information: ALKALINE used as an adjective is very rare. Synonyms: alkalic; alkaline. Context example: alkaline soils derived from chalk or limestone. Similar: alcalescent; alkalescent (tending to become alkaline; slightly alkaline). basic (of or denoting or of the nature of or containing a base). base-forming (yielding a base in aqueous solution).
Those levels vary throughout your body. Your blood is slightly alkaline, with a pH between 7.35 and 7.45. Your stomach is very acidic, with a pH of 3.5 or below, so it can break down food. And your urine changes, depending on what you eat -- that's how your body keeps the level in your blood steady. 
Alkaline Foods. Alkaline foods should really be referred to as  alkaline forming foods . Food is considered alkaline forming if food forms alkaline in the body's blood and urine. This does not mean that the food itself is alkaline: it may well be acidic. Orange juice for instance is highly acidic due to its high citrus acid content, but after being metabolized it will cause urine to become alkaline. 
1. alkaline-relating to or containing an alkali; having a pH greater than 7; alkaline soils derived from chalk or limestone. alkalic. chemical science, chemistry-the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and reactions.