Taiwan-based EVA Air launched a Hello Kitty-themed aircraft for Los Angeles and Paris routes to Taiwan, and the planes will soon be making an appearance in Houston. See some of the other odd airline designs that show up on Houston runways.
Eva is also a variation (Czech, Dutch, English, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Scandinavian, Slavic, and Spanish) of the name Eve (English and French). Eva is also a diminutive (Czech, Dutch, English, German, Hungarian, Indian, Italian, Polish, Russian, Scandinavian, and Spanish) of the name Geneva (English).
Taiwan-based EVA Air launched a Hello Kitty-themed aircraft for Los Angeles and Paris routes to Taiwan, and the planes will soon be making an appearance in Houston. See some of the other odd airline designs ... more. Taiwan-based EVA Air launched a Hello Kitty-themed aircraft for Los Angeles and Paris routes to Taiwan. It launched on the Los Angeles route in September 2013 and was taken to Paris in October 2014 for the character's 40th birthday.
The name Eva is widely used; it has 58 variations that are used in English and other languages. English variations of Eva include Ava, Eba, Ebba, Evacsa, Evacska, Evalea, Evalee, Evaleigh, Evalia, Evaline, Eve, Evea, Eveah, Evelin, Evelina, Evelyn, Evette, Evia (used in Spanish too), Evika, Evlyn, Evva, and Ewah.
EVA Air Infinity MileageLands is a really long name for a frequent flier program and likely means something really thoughtful in Chinese, but that doesn’t translate too well to English, however.
With its Sanrio licensing agreement, EVA Air is partnering with a brand featured on some 50,000 items that are sold in 130 countries. Hello Kitty and other Sanrio character-themed merchandise is sold in 15,000 retail locations worldwide.
To augment the experience, EVA Air decided to bring pajamas previously available only in First Class cabins, to the Royal Laurel Class cabin. The two-piece sleepwear set is made from a warm, soft. Loose and comfortable, the garments are perfect for slumbering on long-haul flights.
Royal Laurel Class aboard EVA Air’s new Boeing 777-300ER aircraft features a range of cabin service improvements that help create the feeling of being at home in the air. These little luxuries include Rimowa overnight kits, noise-canceling headphones, comfortable sleepwear and Fiji Water.