Average Dry Cleaning Prices. On average, dry cleaning can cost anywhere from $1 to $5 per shirt and up. In most cases, this will depend on where the dry cleaners is located, if they are busy with other orders to fulfill and if they iron your apparel in addition to cleaning them. Some may also charge less depending on the number of items that you are having cleaned.
Dry cleaners estimate that businesspeople may spend between $500 and $1,500 annually, but the average annual dry cleaning bill for a typical family is under $150. Repeat business and customer retention are crucial to success. In Florida, cleaners pay a surcharge of $5 per gallon on perc and a 2 percent gross receipts tax. The average payment per Florida cleaner to the fund is $5,138, according to the State Coalition for Dry Cleaner Remediation.
1 Dry cleaning prices vary from one cleaner to another and on the location of the service provider. 2  If the cleaners is located in an up-scale neighborhood, chances are the prices will be higher. 3  Other factors that influence the prices include the styles of the clothes, shapes, colors, and thickness. 1 3-piece suit — $15. 2  Regular pants and slacks — $7. 3  Shirts — $7. 4  At Ask.com someone shared that dry cleaning cost may range from $0.99 for a shirt to $10 to $25 for a suit.
1 Through most dry cleaning services, dry cleaning prices are going to vary because the cost really depends on what needs to be dry cleaned. 2  For instance, a bed comforter is going to cost a lot more than a shirt. 1 3-piece suit — $15. 2  Regular pants and slacks — $7. 3  Shirts — $7. 4  At Ask.com someone shared that dry cleaning cost may range from $0.99 for a shirt to $10 to $25 for a suit.
What is the average cost of office cleaning in New York City? Depending on what company you choose to clean your office the price can range anywhere from $20-$30 per day. Or $100-$200 per month for an office with a few employees and $500 … -$700 for an office with a lot of employees. I just took 2 queen sized down comforters to a green dry cleaners-and it cost $75 for the both of them! I was surprised how expensive it was, I think that if you just go to … a regular dry cleaner it would probably cost $25-$30 a blanket... still kind of expensive..
Men's Dress Shirts. At an average cost of $1.50, the Dry Cleaner is ideal for men's button down dress shirts. In fact, the shirts are not dry cleaned, but are instead washed, then pressed and starched. Speaking of pressing, you may think that you will have to iron all of your clothes if you dry clean them at home, but that isn t so.
Professional carpet cleaning costs vary depending on the size of the area, the cleaning method, the carpet type, and whether stain removal is required. For example, you can expect to pay more for a wool carpet than for berber. On average, homeowners report paying $174 and most spend between $120 and $236. 
Dry cleaning costs can vary from one location to the next and may also depend on exactly what you’re having cleaned that day. Recently, you may even see dry cleaners offering outstanding deals due to drastic decreases in the number of people who opt to have their clothes dry cleaned on a regular basis. In most cases, this will depend on where the dry cleaners is located, if they are busy with other orders to fulfill and if they iron your apparel in addition to cleaning them. Some may also charge less depending on the number of items that you are having cleaned.