Alligatoring is patterned cracking in the surface of the paint film that resembles the regular scales of an alligator. Applying the topcoat before the undercoat is dry may also cause alligatoring. Alternatively, the natural aging of oil-based paints as temperatures fluctuate causes constant expansion and contraction that can result in a loss of paint film elasticity.
DESCRIPTION. Patterned cracking in the paint film resembling the scales of an alligator. These cracks generally do not expose the substrate (e.g. the surface that has been painted). 1 Remove old paint by scraping, sanding, chemical removers, or a heat gun. 2  Follow all manufacturers' cautions when using chemical removers or heat guns. 3  Remove all surface contamination by washing with ProClean Professional® Prep Wash Concentrated Cleaner or other appropriate cleaner; rinse thoroughly and allow to dry
The surface should be primed with a high-quality latex or oil-based primer, then painted with a top-quality exterior latex paint. Note: Images provided by The Rohm & Hass Paint Quality Institute. Alligatoring is patterned cracking in the surface of the paint film that resembles the regular scales of an alligator. Applying the topcoat before the undercoat is dry may also cause alligatoring. Alternatively, the natural aging of oil-based paints as temperatures fluctuate causes constant expansion and contraction that can result in a loss of paint film elasticity.
using a solvent (whichever is appropriate for the paint you are working on) like thinner, acetone, mineral spirits etc... and uses steel wool to and small wire brushes to slightly dissolve the alligatored paint and redistribute it over the piece. :-). The side trim around our front door is alligatored. (By side trim, I mean the trim that's perpendicular to the door itself -- the trim that runs between where the storm door closes and the main front door is.
Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Alligatoring paint refers to a coarse pattern of cracking paint, giving it the appearance of alligator hide. This unsightly condition is the result of moisture buildup, general wear and years of exposure to adverse weather conditions. 
alligator and flaking paint. I have a skylight in our master bathroom and the paint on the drywall is flaking. It appears that when I scrape the parts that are flaking that I am getting down to the cardboard face of the drywall. Apparently this is not green board so anything special.
Alligatoring is the phenomenon of fracturing that often occurs in the interaction between paint layers. It is also known as crazing. Reasons for the Occurrence of Alligatoring. Some of the reasons alligatoring occurs can be the applications of coatings of paint over each other with no suitable primer in between. Alligatoring can also occur when a top coat is applied to a surface when the undercoat isn’t completely dry. Alligatoring can also happen when oil based paints age over a long period of time. This can happen to resin-based shellacs and clear finish polyurethanes as well.
graywings123. I am in the midst of a project to remove alligatored paint and the layers that were painted over it on my front porch. I'm using a heat gun and scraper, then a sander. I am doing this in sections, and it goes surprisingly quickly once you get into a rhythm. :-). The side trim around our front door is alligatored. (By side trim, I mean the trim that's perpendicular to the door itself -- the trim that runs between where the storm door closes and the main front door is.