1 A studio apartment takes two movers--at $25 each per hour--an average of 2-4 hours to load, transport and unload for a price of $100-$200. 2  The same service for a 900-square foot two-bedroom apartment with three movers will take 4-6 hours and cost $300-$450. 1 Summer and weekends are priced from 20% higher. 2  Stairs, long or difficult distances from the truck to the door are priced higher. 3  Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 4  Insurance for a move runs about 30 cents per pound.
1 Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 2  Insurance for a move runs about 30 cents per pound. 3  The American Moving and Storage Association explains how to plan a move and what to do before getting estimates. 1 Summer and weekends are priced from 20% higher. 2  Stairs, long or difficult distances from the truck to the door are priced higher. 3  Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 4
This means that the average cost of packing materials will vary between $170 and $220 for a 3 bedroom house. These are the calculations for average moving costs for your upcoming move. You can find more tips on hiring movers here. Also, usually one hour more is going to be charged for you on behalf of the moving company and this is travel time – the time the moving experts need to reach to your living place. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving
You may also decide to hire additional help for the moving to pack, load and unload the moving truck with your things. Based on the average cost per hour at about $90 for 3 people for 4 hours you would have to pay $320. This is one of the highest costs of all costs along with hiring a truck and paying for its fuel. Also, usually one hour more is going to be charged for you on behalf of the moving company and this is travel time – the time the moving experts need to reach to your living place. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving
Based on my experience in the field, packing costs can be similar to the moving cost itself. A 4 bedroom house can take more than 12h to move from one town to another. In this case your average moving costs will be around $1800 to $2500 without including any packing. 1 You will need to hire local moving helpers on each end to load and unload your belongings of your rental truck. 2  Average moving cost for 3 men is $90 per hour and most likely you will have to pay extra for travel time.
The average professional household move costs a whopping $12,230, according to a 2010 report by Worldwide ERC, an association that tracks mobility costs. However, this cost is for a full-service professional move, in which the moving company packs up your belongings and essentially handles the entire move for you. 
You may also be charged for packing materials. Make sure you keep this in mind when you speak with them to estimate moving costs. The average cost of movers for 2 men and a truck is between $90 and $120 per hour. If you decide to hire movers for labor only (without a moving truck), the professionals will charge about $60 to $80 per hour of labor. You can use our local moving cost calculator form on the top of the page as a cost estimator about the entire move. 1 Moving out of a studio apartment with the help of 2 local movers will cost you around $150-$200 if the entire loading, transportation and unloading operations are complete within 3-4 hours.
Based on your location 2 men would cost you on average of $60 per hour + travel time. Also don’t forget about packing supplies and moving pads for the furniture. Each moving blanket can be rented from places like U-Haul or Penske for about $15 per 12 moving pads or bought for about $10 per pad. 1 You will need to hire local moving helpers on each end to load and unload your belongings of your rental truck. 2  Average moving cost for 3 men is $90 per hour and most likely you will have to pay extra for