It can also be called the thermal kinetic energy. The internal energy of a system is the total thermal kinetic energy and thermal potential energy of all its atoms and molecules. The Kinetic Theory of Matter is explains the kinetic energy of particles in an object. Kinetic energy can be translational, rotational, or vibrational. The total kinetic energy of all the particles is called the thermal energy or thermal kinetic energy of the object. This is opposed to the kinetic energy of the whole object (like a moving object) and the kinetic energy of a single particle. However, the particles also have their own potential energy.
Roughly, the temperature of a body at rest is a measure of the mean of the energy of the translational, vibrational and rotational motions of matter 's particle constituents, such as molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles. The relationship of kinetic energy, mass, and velocity is given by the formula Ek = 1⁄2 mv 2. Accordingly, particles with one unit of mass moving at one unit of velocity have precisely the same kinetic energy, and precisely the same temperature, as those with four times the mass but half the velocity.
An important idea related to temperature is the fact that a collision between a molecule with high kinetic energy and one with low kinetic energy will transfer energy to the molecule of lower kinetic energy. Part of the idea of temperature is that for two collections of the same type of molecules that are in contact with each other, the collection with higher average kinetic energy will transfer energy to the collection with lower average
Temperature is not directly proportional to internal energy since temperature measures only the kinetic energy part of the internal energy, so two objects with the same temperature do not in general have the same internal energy (see water-metal example). Part of the idea of temperature is that for two collections of the same type of molecules that are in contact with each other, the collection with higher average kinetic energy will transfer energy to the collection with lower average kinetic energy.
The thermodynamic temperature is a measure of the average energy of the translational, vibrational, and rotational motions of matter 's particle constituents (molecules, atoms, and subatomic particles). The relationship of kinetic energy, mass, and velocity is given by the formula Ek = 1⁄2 mv 2. Accordingly, particles with one unit of mass moving at one unit of velocity have precisely the same kinetic energy, and precisely the same temperature, as those with four times the mass but half the velocity.
Heat and temperature are related, but not the same. Temperature is a measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles of a substance. The higher the temperature of an object, the higher is its kinetic energy. Kinetic energy is a type of energy associated with motion. When we measure an object's temperature, we measure the average kinetic energy of the particles in the object. The higher the temperature, the faster the molecules of the substance move, on the average. Dyes will spread more rapidly through hot water than cold water.
Clearly, temperature has to do with the kinetic energy of the molecules, and if the molecules act like independent point masses, then we could define temperature in terms of the average translational kinetic energy of the molecules, the so-called  kinetic temperature . Part of the idea of temperature is that for two collections of the same type of molecules that are in contact with each other, the collection with higher average kinetic energy will transfer energy to the collection with lower average kinetic energy.
Kinetic Temperature. The expression for gas pressure developed from kinetic theory relates pressure and volume to the average molecular kinetic energy. Comparison with the ideal gas law leads to an expression for temperature sometimes referred to as the kinetic temperature. The kinetic temperature is the variable needed for subjects like heat transfer, because it is the translational kinetic energy which leads to energy transfer from a hot area (larger kinetic temperature, higher molecular speeds) to a cold area (lower molecular speeds) in direct collisional transfer.
Except in the quantum regime at extremely low temperatures, the thermodynamic temperature of any bulk quantity of a substance (a statistically significant quantity of particles) is directly proportional to the mean average kinetic energy of a specific kind of particle motion known as translational motion. The relationship of kinetic energy, mass, and velocity is given by the formula Ek = 1⁄2 mv 2. Accordingly, particles with one unit of mass moving at one unit of velocity have precisely the same kinetic energy, and precisely the same temperature, as those with four times the mass but half the velocity.
The average kinetic energy of the particles in a gas is proportional to the temperature of the gas. Because the mass of these particles is constant, the particles must move faster as the gas becomes warmer. If we compress a gas without changing its temperature, the average kinetic energy of the gas particles stays the same. There is no change in the speed with which the particles move, but the container is smaller. Thus, the particles travel from one end of the container to the other in a shorter period of time.