Parsley is slow to germinate because the seed contains a germination inhibitor which slowly leaches out when exposed to moisture. Hence the suggestions about soaking the seed have real value-you leach out the inhibitor faster, so it germinates faster. It's even better if you change the soak water once or twice. Hi, I too, have found that Parsley does take it's time to germinate. I have found that laying the seeds in a moist, but not soggy paper towel, keeps the seeds moist and at the same time draws the excess humidity off the seed preventing the earlier comment of gelatinous mess.
Parsley – Parsley seed is notoriously slow to germinate, sometimes taking up to 4 weeks. To speed it along, soak the seeds overnight in warm water and sow 1/4 inch deep in the soil. Parsley doesn't like to be transplanted, so grow seeds in pots large enough to move outside into the garden. Sow seeds in pots that can be moved directly into the garden or in a larger pot outside. Soak seeds overnight in warm water, and sow 1/4 inch deep. Cilantro seeds should germinate in 7 to 10 days. Dill – Dill is a great herb for the beginner to grow from seed. It has big seeds, so it’s easy to handle. It grows quickly, germinating within 1 to 2 weeks of sowing the seeds
Transplant seedlings started indoors into your garden after the first frost and when the plants are at least 3-inches tall. Place the seeds so that each plant is at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) from the other plants, in rows that are 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart. This will give the parsley plenty of space to grow, which it will take full advantage of with the commencement of late Spring. 4. Water the parsley. Place all of your parsley seeds into the mixture and allow them to soak for one hour. The heat of the water and the dish soap will help to break down the notoriously tough outer casing of the parsley seeds, helping them to grow faster than they would without soaking.
Dig your holes/rows. Using a small trowel, make the rows in your garden approximately 10 to 12 inches (25.4 to 30.5 cm) apart and long enough so that the seeds can be sewn in 3-inch intervals. The seeds/sprouts need only be covered with ½ inch of dirt, so these holes/rows need not be very deep. Place all of your parsley seeds into the mixture and allow them to soak for one hour. The heat of the water and the dish soap will help to break down the notoriously tough outer casing of the parsley seeds, helping them to grow faster than they would without soaking.
Germination. Parsley will germinate at temperatures from 40-90F (5-32C). The optimum temperature is 80F (27C) with a drop during the night to 68F (20C), and at lower temperatures germination will take correspondingly longer. 
The best way to germinate parsley seed, is by sowing the seeds in a small pot - 3in - 7cm pot will be fine. Scatter around a dozen seeds onto the surface of the soil-water gently until the seeds are well anchored into the soil, then cover with vermiculite, and again, water this in. 
For example, European primrose (Primula vulgaris) seeds normally take 2 to 4 weeks to germinate if the conditions are right, but may germinate more quickly (in 2 or 3 days) if placed in a small pot of damp compost and placed in a polythene bag indoors at 15 - 20 degrees C. But this is not appropriate for all species. Generally seeds take between 7 and 14 days to germinate. There are of course exceptions, some varieties can germinate within 2 days if con … ditions are right, where as others can take literally years to germinate-even if conditions are right.
Parsley seeds don't germinate (sprout into life) as easily as some seeds and there is a good natural reason for this. For parsley seed to germinate it requires a minimum soil temperature of at least 40°F / 5°C but you will find that very few germinate at that low temperature. 
Planting and Timing. Parsley seeds are slow to germinate, and they may take between two and five weeks to sprout after they're planted. Sow the seeds in the garden after the soil temperature has reached 50 degrees F, and to encourage faster germination, soak the seeds in warm water for a day just before planting. 