7.2.2 Newton's Method and the Secant Method. In words, the first two terms of the series say that the function can be approximated, at one point, by taking it's value () at a nearby point () and using the slope () at that point to extrapolate to the point where we want to approximate the function. 
Secant. The term secant is a very frequently used term which is originated from a Latin language word secare, the meaning of which is to cut. Secant is an important concept that is used in the reference of geometry and trigonometry both. Secant is a line that cuts a circle in two points. Secant is a trigonometric function too that is defined in context with right-angled triangle
Secant Method Another Recursive Method Secant Method The secant method is a recursive method used to find the solution to an equation like Newton’s Method. The idea for it is to follow the secant line to its x-intercept and use that as an approximation for the root. This is like Newton’s Method (which follows the tangent line) but it requires two initial guesses for the root. The big advantage of the secant method over Newton’s Method is that it does not require the given function f(x) to be a differential function or for the algorithm to have to compute a derivative.
For this particular case, the secant method will not converge. In numerical analysis, the secant method is a root-finding algorithm that uses a succession of roots of secant lines to better approximate a root of a function f. The secant method can be thought of as a finite difference approximation of Newton's method. However, the method was developed independently of Newton's method, and predated the latter by over 3,000 years. Broyden's method is a generalization of the secant method to more than one dimension. The following graph shows the function f in red and the last secant line in bold blue. In the graph, the x-intercept of the secant line seems to be a good approximation of the root of f.
Secant Method. Although the Newton-Raphson method is very powerfull to solve non-linear equations, evaluating of the function derivative is the major difficulty of this method. To overcome this deficiency, the secant method starts the iteration by employing two starting points and approximates the function derivative by evaluating of the slope of the line passing through these points. The secant method has been shown in Fig. 1
The Secant Method. While Newton's method is fast, it has a big downside: you need to know the derivative of \(f\) in order to use it. In many real-life applications, this can be a show-stopper as the functional form of the derivative is not known.
Secant method is one of those. It is a method that is used for approximation of root of a function. It is also known as a root-finding technique, in which root of a function is approximated with the help of succession of the secant lines roots. The term secant is a very frequently used term which is originated from a Latin language word secare, the meaning of which is to cut. Secant is an important concept that is used in the reference of geometry and trigonometry both. Secant is a line that cuts a circle in two points. Secant is a trigonometric function too that is defined in context with right-angled triangle