Vasodilation. Vasodilation (or vasodilatation) refers to the widening of blood vessels. It results from relaxation of smooth muscle cells within the vessel walls, in particular in the large veins, large arteries, and smaller arterioles. In essence, the process is the opposite of vasoconstriction, which is the narrowing of blood vessels. Vasodilation is the result of relaxation in smooth muscle surrounding the blood vessels. This relaxation, in turn, relies on removing the stimulus for contraction, which depends on intracellular calcium ion concentrations and is tightly linked with phosphorylation of the light chain of the contractile protein myosin.
The contraction of smooth muscle cells of intrapulmonary arterioles is determined by the frequency of Ca2+ oscillations induced by 5-HT and KCl. Perez JF(1), Sanderson MJ. Author information: (1)Department of Physiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA. Comment in J Gen Physiol. 2005 Jun;125(6):529-30. Increased resistance of the small blood vessels within the lungs is associated with pulmonary hypertension and results from a decrease in size induced by the contraction of their smooth muscle cells (SMCs).
Abstract. Contraction of small artery (diameters typically less than 250 μm) vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) plays a critical role in local control of blood flow and arterial pressure through its affect on vascular caliber. 
The glomeruli of the kidneys contain a smooth muscle-like cell called the mesangial cell. Smooth muscle is fundamentally different from skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle in terms of structure, function, excitation-contraction coupling, and mechanism of contraction. Best Answer: Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male, female, and all animals, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle and iris of the eye.
They found that smooth muscle cells on precapillary arterioles clamped down on vessels in response, blocking the flow of red blood cells to downstream tissues. In many cases, the vessels remained constricted after the researchers removed the ligature and restored arterial blood flow. They concluded that flow is exclusively controlled by smooth muscle cells surrounding the larger arterioles, which make up less than 10 percent of the brain’s blood vessels. These cells also regulated blood flow increases in response to brain activity, which form the basis for functional MRI.
Smooth muscle is an involuntary non-striated muscle. It is divided into two subgroups; the single-unit (unitary) and multiunit smooth muscle. Within single-unit cells, the whole bundle or sheet contracts as a syncytium (i.e. a multinucleate mass of cytoplasm that is not separated into cells). The structure and function is basically the same in smooth muscle cells in different organs, but the inducing stimuli differ substantially, in order to perform individual effects in the body at individual times.
Smooth muscle is found within the walls of blood vessels (such smooth muscle specifically being termed vascular smooth muscle) such as in the tunica media layer of large (aorta) and small arteries, arterioles and veins. The structure and function is basically the same in smooth muscle cells in different organs, but the inducing stimuli differ substantially, in order to perform individual effects in the body at individual times.
An arteriole /ɑrˈtɪəri.oʊl/ is a small diameter blood vessel in the microcirculation that extends and branches out from an artery and leads to capillaries. Arterioles have muscular walls (usually only one to two layers of smooth muscle) and are the primary site of vascular resistance. The greatest change in blood pressure and velocity of blood flow occurs at the transition of arterioles to capillaries. The decreased velocity of flow in the capillaries reduces the pressure and increases exchange of gas and nutrients. Arterioles receive autonomic nervous system innervation and respond to various circulating hormones in order to regulate their diameter. Retinal vessels lack a functional sympathetic innervation.