Johannes Kepler was born about 1 PM on December 27, 1571, in Weil der Stadt, Wuerttemberg, württemberg in The Holy Roman empire Of German. Nationality he was a sickly child and his parents were. Poor but his evident intelligence earned him a scholarship to The university Of tuebingen tübingen to study For the. lutheran ministry 
) was a sovereign state in Central Europe that existed from October 1918, when it declared its independence from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, until its peaceful dissolution into the Czech Republic and Slovakia on 1 January 1993. The Bohemian Kingdom officially ceased to exist in 1918 by transformation into Czechoslovakia. Czechoslovakia was founded in October 1918, as one of the successor states of Austro-Hungarian Empire at the end of World War I and as part of the Treaty of St. Germain. It consisted of the present day territories of Bohemia, Moravia, Slovakia and Carpathian Ruthenia
In 1344 the first stone in the foundation of the Cathedral of St. Vitus was laid. Today, the cathedral is the architecture dominant of Prague Castle and the main cathedral of the city. 1o years later, Charles IV became the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire and the Prague Castle became his residence. By the 10 th century Prague Castle became the residence of the rulers of Bohemia, not only princes and later kings, but also the highest representatives of the church, the bishops of Prague.
The Czech Republic was founded on January 1st,1993 when Czechoslovakia broke up into Czech Repulic and Slovakia. Czechoslovakia was founded when WWI ended. 1 Prague: The Capital of the Czech Republic Prague, the capital city of the Czech Republic, is home to 1.3 million people. 2  This makes it one of the larger cities in Eastern Europe. 3  Prague also continues to be an extrem….
History. Probably about the 5th century A.D. , Slavic tribes from the Vistula basin settled in the region of Bohemia, Moravia, and Silesia. The Czechs founded the kingdom of Bohemia and the Premyslide dynasty, which ruled Bohemia and Moravia from the 10th to the 16th century. One of the Bohemian kings, Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor, made Prague an imperial capital and a center of Latin scholarship
Nowadays, Prague is the capital and largest city of the Czech Republic and fourteenth largest city in the European Union. By the 10 th century Prague Castle became the residence of the rulers of Bohemia, not only princes and later kings, but also the highest representatives of the church, the bishops of Prague.
This thesis on Prague was written by my father William Ray Tower. It is full of names and information on Prague and the surrounding areas. I was born in Prague, my father was born in Prague, and my grandfathers were some of the original people of Prague. My grandfather was Reuben Theodore Tower and his mother was Pearl Heudonia McElvany. In this thesis I have tried to present a general history of the town of Prague, Oklahoma, from its founding in 1902 until the present. The town has a varied and interesting history, which I feel in some respects, is typical of the beginnings of many of our Oklahoma communities.
History of Vienna. May we take you back in time for a moment, leaving present-day Vienna and going back to Habsburg and Babenberg times, or even further back to ancient times, when the Romans founded their Vindobona ...
The kingdom of Bohemia reached its height of power and prestige during the reign of Charles IV (1346-1378), the second Luxembourg on the throne of Bohemia: In 1344, the Prague Archbishopric was founded. He established Charles University in 1348 - it was the first university founded north of the Alps. (9th century - 1306). Bohemia became the center of an independent state-building process. During the reign of the native Premyslid dynasty, the Czech state gradually grew in strength and succeeded in preserving its actual sovereignty despite formal vassal ties to the Holy Roman Empire.