Julia is a form of the name Julius. Julius is a Roman family name which may have been derived from the Greek word ioulos meaning downy bearded or soft haired, implying youthful. Its most famous bearer was Gaius Julius Caesar. Variants of the name Julia include Jullia. What does Julia mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Julia is of Latin and Greek origin. The meaning of Julia is downy-bearded,
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Julia and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Julia and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The name Julia is also found as a name of a female character who fell in love with Proteus in Verona, in Shakespeare's play  Two Gentlemen of Verona and also used for a butterfly species found in Brazil, Julia Butterfly.
Look up Julie in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Julie is a popular Latin first name which originally comes from the Latin Julia which could mean youthful, soft-haired, beautiful or vivacious. It is the feminine form of Julius, and can be a pet form of Julia, or Juliette
Julia is usually a woman's given name. It is a Latinate feminine form of the name Julius. Julius was a Roman family, derived from a founder Julus, the son of Aeneas and Creusa in Roman mythology, although the name's etymology may possibly derive from Greek ἴουλος (ioulos) downy-[haired, bearded] or alternatively from the name of the Roman god Jupiter. Like its male counterpart, the given name Julia had been in use throughout Late Antiquity (e.g. Julia of Corsica) but became rare during the Middle Ages, and was revived only with the Italian Renaissance. It became common in the English-speaking world only in the 18th century.
Origin of the name Julia: Feminine form of the Latin Julius, an old Roman family name thougth to be derived from Iulus (the first down on the chin, downy-bearded). Because a person just beginning to develop facial hair is young, the definition of this name and its related forms has evolved to youth..
Additional information: The girl name Julia is the female form of the Latin Julius, which is an old Roman family name given to every female of the Julius family. The name Julia is also found as a name of a female character who fell in love with Proteus in Verona, in Shakespeare's play  Two Gentlemen of Verona and also used for a butterfly species found in Brazil, Julia Butterfly.
Julia /ju-lia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced joo-lee-AH, zhoo-lee-AH. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Julia is youthful; Jove's child. Feminine of Julius. Julia is pronounced similarly to Jalea, Jiuliya, Jiyulia, Jola, Joli, Jolie ▼ , Jullia, Jullie, Jully and July. Other suggested similar baby names are Eulia, Julisa, Junia and Tulia. These names tend to be less frequently used than Julia.
French Meaning: The name Julia is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Julia is: Youthful. American Meaning: The name Julia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Julia is: Youthful. Swedish Meaning: The name Julia is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Julia is: Youth. The name Julia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Julia is: Young. The feminine form of Julius. A character in Shakespeare's play 'Two Gentlemen of Verona'.