Adequate and uniform soil temperature at the seed zone. Corn will germinate and emerge slowly and/or unevenly when soil temperatures are less than 50F. When soils warm to the mid-50's or warmer, emergence will occur in seven days or less if soil moisture is adequate. The good news is that there are only four simple requirements for uniform germination and emergence of corn. The bad news is that one or more of the requirements are sometimes absent in one field or another.
Temperature. Peas will sprout in 21 to 30 days if the soil temperature is 38 degrees Fahrenheit and the germination rate, or number of seeds that do sprout, will be low. At temperatures of 65 to 70 F the seeds will sprout within 7 to 14 days and the germination percentage will be in the high 90s for fresh seed. Above 75 F the germination percentage goes down quickly even though the seeds sprout quickly. Remember, these are soil temperatures, not air temperatures. The length of time it takes for a pea seed to germinate depends on temperature, moisture and age of the seed. Pea seeds can be pre-sprouted to get the plants started quickly. This is especially important where cool springs quickly become hot summers.
Plant leafy vegetables for succession gardening. The length of time it takes vegetables to grow varies greatly depending on the type and variety you're planting, as well as the conditions. Some veggies are considered short-season crops and only take a couple of weeks to be ready to harvest. Others, however, will take nearly the entire summer. 
Fig. 2. Example of the effect of soil temperature on the timing of corn emergence. Adequate and uniform seed-to-soil contact. In order for the kernel to imbibe (absorb) soil moisture quickly and uniformly, good seed-to-soil contact is vital. The good news is that there are only four simple requirements for uniform germination and emergence of corn. The bad news is that one or more of the requirements are sometimes absent in one field or another.
Climodat information from mesonet.agron.iastate.edu. Figure 2. If the soil temperature is averaging 50 to 55 F (10-12.8 C) at the time of planting, corn may take three weeks to emerge. Temperatures averaging 60 F (15.6 C), may have emergence in 10 days to 12 days. Laboratory studies have shown that for most corn hybrids grown in the Midwest, seedling emergence is about three weeks if the soil temperature is 51 F and is about one week if the daily soil temperature holds near 70 F (Figure 2).
Corn germination This short movie shows corn seeds germinating and growing in darkness over a period of a few days starting 36 hours after being planted in wet soil. Note that the root is the first part of the seedling to emerge from the seed. The seed on the left was planted with the embryo aligned with its root pointing down.
Corn seed germinates in 10 to 14 days at 75°F, but the rate of germination may reach only 75 percent. Start corn indoors 2 to 3 weeks before the last frost in spring for transplanting 2 to 3 weeks after the last frost. If your season is long enough, plant successive crops every two to three weeks. Planting and spacing. Planting time. Corn is a tender, warm-season annual that is best planted after the soil temperature reaches 60°F, usually 2 or 3 weeks after the last frost in spring. Corn requires 60 to 100 frost-free days to reach harvest depending upon variety and the amount of heat during the growing season.
Corn planted in cold, wet soil is unlikely to germinate. Corn grows best in air temperatures from 60° to 95°F. Corn can take from 60 to 100 days to reach harvest depending upon variety and the amount of heat during the growing season. Planting time. Corn is a tender, warm-season annual that is best planted after the soil temperature reaches 60°F, usually 2 or 3 weeks after the last frost in spring. Corn requires 60 to 100 frost-free days to reach harvest depending upon variety and the amount of heat during the growing season.