Introduction [edit]. Hemispheric lateralization refers to the distinction between functions of the right and left hemispheres of the brain. If one hemisphere is more heavily involved in a specific function, it is often referred to as being dominant (Bear et al., 2007). This asymmetry exists even in the brain of the human fetus (Bear et al., 2007). The correlation of this asymmetry with the left hemisphere’s language dominance is refuted by many due to the fact that 67% of people show this structural asymmetry, while 97% show left hemispheric dominance.
Cerebral Dominance. Each hemisphere of the brain is dominant for other behaviors. For example, it appears that the right brain is dominant for spatial abilities, face recognition, visual imagery and music. The left brain may be more dominant for calculations, math and logical abilities. Before different types of brain surgery, it is important to identify which cerebral hemisphere is dominant for language so that the neurosurgeon can avoid damaging speech areas. One way to test which hemisphere is dominant for language is with a procedure called the Wada Test.
The control of speech and handedness by one hemisphere of the brain. In 90% to 95% of human beings, the left cerebral hemisphere is functionally dominant; as a result most people are right-handed. A lesion (such as a stroke or tumor) to the left cerebral hemisphere of such people will produce aphasia and right-sided paralysis. Aphasia rarely occurs in right-handed people from a right cerebral lesion. In 60% of left-handed people with aphasia from a cerebral lesion, the left side is affected. the specialization of each of the two cerebral hemispheres in the integration and control of different functions. In 90% of the population, the left cerebral hemisphere specializes in or dominates the ability to speak and write and the capacity to understand spoken and written words.
Hemisphere dominance of the brain is not fixed but rather a  selected preference for each individual. A generalization is that  left brain dominant people are more logical w … hile right brain  dominant people are more creative. 
people use one side of the brain more then the other. Highly creative people tend to use the right side of the brain more, while highly logical people tend to use the left sid … e more. The side you use more is the dominant hemisphere of your brain. 
The lateralization of brain function refers to how some functions, or cognitive processes tend be more dominant in one hemisphere than the other. The medial longitudinal fissure separates the human brain into two distinct cerebral hemispheres, connected by the corpus callosum. While language production is left-lateralized in up to 90% of right-handed subjects, it is more bilateral, or even right lateralized in approximately 50% of left-handers. In contrast, prosodic language functions, such as intonation and accentuation, often are lateralized to the right hemisphere of the brain.
The right hemisphere is dominant in early processing of words in Mandarin while the left is dominant in late processing. Studies of American Sign Language have shown more distributed hemispheric activity as opposed to the dominance of the left brain in English speakers. Hemispheric dominance (pseudoscience promoters sometimes call it  brainedness , cf. handedness) refers to the fact that: 1  The two hemispheres of the brain are specialized to perform certain tasks (lateralization). 2  Individuals show a preference toward using one hemisphere in many case
(March 2015). The term laterality refers to the preference most humans show for one side of their body over the other. Examples include left-handedness / right-handedness and left/right-footedness, it may also refer to the primary use of the left or right hemisphere in the brain. It may also apply to animals or plants. 