American ginseng products are made from ginseng root and the long, thin offshoots called root hairs. The main chemical ingredients of American ginseng are ginsenosides and polysaccharide glycans (quinquefolans A, B, and C). Both Asian and American ginseng contain ginsenosides, which are the substances thought to give ginseng its medicinal properties. But they contain different types in different amounts. Siberian ginseng, or Eleuthero (Eleutherococcus senticosus) , is an entirely different plant with different effects.
Wrinkles around the neck of the root tell how old the plant is. Ginseng is not ready to be used as medicine until it has grown for about 6 years. Asian or Chinese and Korean ginseng are the same plants, but grown in different areas. American ginseng is a relative of the same species, native to North America. 
Blood-thinning medications (anticoagulants) -- One small study suggested that American ginseng might decrease the effectiveness of warfarin (Coumadin), a blood-thinning medication. If you take any blood-thinning medications, talk to your doctor before taking ginseng. Both Asian and American ginseng contain ginsenosides, which are the substances thought to give ginseng its medicinal properties. But they contain different types in different amounts. Siberian ginseng, or Eleuthero (Eleutherococcus senticosus) , is an entirely different plant with different effects.
Korean ginseng may have negative side effects on your blood pressure and heart rate. People have reported experiencing increased heart rate and elevated blood pressure after taking excessive doses of Korean ginseng, says the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Taking Korean ginseng tea could reduce your blood glucose levels and cause hypoglycemia in some people, according to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. If you have diabetes, you may be at a higher risk of hypoglycemia, especially if you’re taking certain diabetic medications.
But in those taking Coumadin and ginseng, the drug's blood-thinning effects were significantly reduced. The bottom line: If you're on Coumadin or generic warfarin, don't take ginseng supplements or ginseng-containing herbal tea. If you think the ginseng is important for your health, discuss it with your doctor. 
Avoid drinking Korean ginseng tea if you take anti-coagulants, or “blood thinning” medications, because doing so could increase your risk of developing a dangerous blood clot, according to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Taking Korean ginseng tea could reduce your blood glucose levels and cause hypoglycemia in some people, according to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. If you have diabetes, you may be at a higher risk of hypoglycemia, especially if you’re taking certain diabetic medications.
Overview. Also called Asian, Chinese or Panax ginseng, Korean ginseng is a common medicinal herb for treating a range of health ailments. Korean ginseng tea may be helpful if you have erectile dysfunction, male infertility, diabetes, chronic fatigue syndrome, colds, infections or flu. Taking Korean ginseng tea could reduce your blood glucose levels and cause hypoglycemia in some people, according to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. If you have diabetes, you may be at a higher risk of hypoglycemia, especially if you’re taking certain diabetic medications.
The name ginseng is used to refer to both American (Panax quinquefolius) and Asian or Korean ginseng (Panax ginseng), which belong to the genus Panax and have a somewhat similar chemical makeup. Both Asian and American ginseng contain ginsenosides, which are the substances thought to give ginseng its medicinal properties. But they contain different types in different amounts. Siberian ginseng, or Eleuthero (Eleutherococcus senticosus) , is an entirely different plant with different effects.
I've always heard that ginko and ginseng are natural blood thinners. As a matter of fact, it's a standard question now when you are having surgery if you are taking herbal supplements like ginko. Obviously, they don't want your blood too thin when on the operating table. Gingko is also very good for impotence. RESVERATOL is also a very good blood thinner Reseveratol is a Polyphenol(an anti-oxidant compound found in Grapes, Red Wine, &Green Tea and others.)This is also found in a Chinese Herb Hu Zhang (pronounced HOO JONG) Polygonum Cuspidatum is its botanical name.
Like Asian ginseng, American ginseng is a light tan, gnarled root that often looks like a human body with stringy shoots for arms and legs. Native Americans used the root as a stimulant and to treat headaches, fever, indigestion, and infertility. Both Asian and American ginseng contain ginsenosides, which are the substances thought to give ginseng its medicinal properties. But they contain different types in different amounts. Siberian ginseng, or Eleuthero (Eleutherococcus senticosus) , is an entirely different plant with different effects.