A.: Amazon Prime is a paid service (Free 30-day trial, $99 per year) that gives Amazon shoppers a few distinct advantages. Members of Amazon Prime are eligible for: 1  Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. It's worth noting that if you opt for free no-rush shipping (which can take between 5 and 7 days), you can earn money toward music, video and e-book purchases. Also, if a Prime-eligible package arrives after the two-day shipping guarantee, Amazon will extend your Prime membership for a month.
Two months after that brainstorming session, Amazon unveiled Prime. Customers who paid $79 annually would get “free” two-day delivery nationwide for an unlimited number of orders. “Two-day shipping becomes an everyday experience rather than an occasional indulgence,” Bezos wrote online in introducing the program. 
For a lot of people, Amazon Prime Instant Video is a bit of a puzzle. For starters, one-fifth of people who have access to Amazon's Netflix-like streaming service, which is an added benefit for those who pay a $79 annual subscription to Prime, the company's loyalty program, don't even use it. Perhaps some Prime members, who likely subscribe for the free two-day shipping benefit, don't know about Prime Instant Video. Amazon, after all, is known as a retailer, not as a streaming powerhouse, and Prime Instant Video was only added three years ago.
Flickr / Garry Knight. My subscription to Amazon Prime — the company's $99-a-year membership service which boasts free, two-day shipping on millions of items — ran out last week. Once I realized that the time had come, I contemplated whether or not I actually needed to re-up the service. 
Netflix charges a monthly fee of $7.99 per month, which comes out to $95.88 per year. Amazon Prime costs $99 per year, which comes out to about $8.25 per month. Forgetting the nice shipping benefits you get with Prime, you pay about the same. If both services had the same library of options, you could justify a Prime membership in an instant. Because Prime allows you to invite four other members in your household —not that Amazon actually prevents you from inviting someone across the country—you could split the costs with others and pay as little as $25 per year for your benefits.
It costs $79 per year, which is cheaper thank Netflix by about $16 per year overall. But not everything you see available to watch in Amazon is included included free after you pay for a membership. Let me explain. Amazon does throw in a lot of other value-adds to the Prime membership, though, such as free two-day shipping on all Amazon purchases for you and four other household members, and the ability to rent selected books for the Kindle that would otherwise cost money. Those last two perks are for U.S. members only.
Sure, Amazon’s free shipping for non-Prime members is slow—”your order will be delivered 5-8 business days after all of your items are available to ship,” Amazon explains —but hey, it’s free. And it’s truly free-free, not just “free” after you’ve paid $79, err $99, annually. 0. The idea that’s been floated for a few months has become a reality: On Thursday, Amazon announced that the price of its Prime service would rise to $99 annually, up from the $79 rate that’s been charged since the two-day shipping membership program was introduced nearly a decade ago.
Amazon Prime Hikes Price to $99. You could just suck it up and pay the freshly hiked rates for Amazon Prime. Or you could get a little creative, save some money, and still enjoy free shipping. The idea that’s been floated for a few months has become a reality: On Thursday, Amazon announced that the price of its Prime service would rise to $99 annually, up from the $79 rate that’s been charged since the two-day shipping membership program was introduced nearly a decade ago.
A.: Amazon Prime Instant Video is the streaming-video component of Amazon Prime. Like Netflix and Hulu Plus, Amazon Prime offers unlimited streaming of tens of thousands of movies and TV shows. Unlike its two competitors, however, Amazon Prime also allows a à la carte rentals and purchases of its. content It's worth noting that if you opt for free no-rush shipping (which can take between 5 and 7 days), you can earn money toward music, video and e-book purchases. Also, if a Prime-eligible package arrives after the two-day shipping guarantee, Amazon will extend your Prime membership for a month.