My version of mushy peas is made using fresh peas, then I add butter and whipping cream to the mashed peas to create a smoother, creamier texture. Here is my version using the best-case-scenario, substitute ingredients to recreate this side in an American kitchen. Mushy peas are served by English Chippies to accompany fried battered fish and chips. In Ireland mushy peas are often served as a side to roast leg of lamb. Whatever way you choose, they are a delicious, easy-to-make side dish. I serve mushy peas with fish and chips, just like they do in England
I was born and raised in the Midlands of England, where mushy peas was a regular accompaniment to fish ?n chips or meat pie ?n chips. Mushy peas are made from dried marrowfat peas which have been soaked overnight in water, with sodium bicarbonate as a softening agent. They are then rinsed and simmered in water with salt and sugar. Heat the oil in a pan and add the chopped onions, mint, and peas. Cover and leave for a few minutes to steam. Mash with a potato masher. You can do this with a food processor as well, just pulse it until smooth. Whether mashing or pulsing, when it's done add the butter and season very carefully, to taste.
Directions. 1  Put the peas in a bowl, add baking soda, pour on the boiling water and soak overnight. 2  Next day drain and barely cover the peas with water, bring to a boil and simmer until tender and soft apprx 15-20 minutes, drain. 3  Add salt pepper pinch of sugar and the butter, stir and serve. 1
Traditional mushy peas are an intrinsic part of British food favourite, Fish and Chips or with hot pies. There are many impostors out there using frozen and even fresh peas; none comes even close to the real thing. 
Why We Love It. True Brits say, make mine mushy with Batchelors Mushy Peas. Mushy peas are dried marrowfat peas that have been soaked overnight and then boiled. They are a favorite side dish in the north of England, and are a traditional accompaniment to fish and chips. 10.6 oz. 
Mushy Peas are a great side dish with fried cod or salmon. Note: You can add more liquid (water or cream) depending how mushy you want your peas. Use low fat milk if you're calorie-conscious.. Saved Save I Made it Rate it Share Print. Saved. Save. ADVERTISEMENT. 15 m servings 132 cals. Added to shopping list. 
Cook. So here is the story behind me and mushy peas. I love peas, but I don't like mushy peas (like the kind that come out of a can mushy, not like this recipe mushy), so when I read about mushy peas and fish and chips, my curiosity was piqued -- the description sounded good. So of course I went in search of a recipe.
A British meal of fish and chips served with mushy peas in the ramekin on the right. Mushy peas are dried marrowfat peas which are first soaked overnight in water with bicarbonate soda/baking soda, then rinsed in fresh water and simmered with a little sugar and salt until they form a thick green lumpy soup. 
1 Add frozen peas, and cook for 3 minutes, or until tender. 2  Drain peas, and transfer to a blender or large food processor. 3  Add cream, butter, salt and pepper to peas, and process until blended, but still thick with small pieces of peas. 4  Adjust seasonings to taste, and serve immediately. I love peas, but I don't like mushy peas (like the kind that come out of a can mushy, not like this recipe mushy), so when I read about mushy peas and fish and chips, my curiosity was piqued -- the description sounded good. So of course I went in search of a recipe.