In the liver of the animals, ammonia is detoxified to form urea by the orrithine cycle. Urea is far less toxic than ammonia and so can remain inside the body for a longer period without causing any ill effects inside the body. Different animals expel different nitrogenous compounds. Ammonia is highly soluble in water and a very large volume of water is needed by the animal to dissolve ammonia. 1 gm of ammonia needs about 300 - 500 ml of water. But this is not a problem for animals living in an aqueous habitat which are generally found to be ammonotelic.
What is the function of the kidney. as unfilitered blood eneters the kidney through the renal artery, the kidney removes urea, excess water etc. and passes them to the ureter. The clean, filtered blood leaves the kidney through the renal vein and returns to circulation. Nephridia. invertebrate organs which function similar to kidneys, removing metabolic waste from the body. It consists of a ciliated funnel opening into the body cavity which it is then connected to a duct that folds and expands and then opens to the nephrostome.
A major function of the excretory system is the excretion of nitrogenous waste. These include ammonia, urea and uric acid .Excretion also helps to maintain a constant body temperature by removing excess heat and maintain a constant internal environment in association with the other system of the body. Deamination is the process in which a. poisonous urea is removed from the blood and it occurs in kidneysb. amino acids are absorbed from digested food, and it occurs in intestinal villic. amino acids are broken down to produce urea and it occurs in liverd. amino acids are synthesised and it occurs in ribosomes 26.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A flame cell is a specialized excretory cell found in the simplest freshwater invertebrates, including flatworms (except the turbellarian order Acoela), rotifers and nemerteans; these are the simplest animals to have a dedicated excretory system. Bundles of flame cells are called protonephridia. The flame cell has a nucleated cell body, with a cup-shaped projection, with flagella covering the inner surface of the cup. The beating of these flagella resemble a flame, giving the cell its name.
flame cell. n. 1. (Zoology) an organ of excretion in flatworms: a hollow cup-shaped cell containing a bunch of cilia, whose movement draws in waste products and wafts them to the outside through a connecting tubule. n. Noun. 1. flame cell-organ of excretion in flatworms. flatworm, platyhelminth-parasitic or free-living worms having a flattened body. excretory organ, urinary organ-an organ that separates waste substances from the blood and discharges them. 1  Facebook.
Flame cells function like a kidney, removing waste materials. Bundles of flame cells are called protonephridia. The flame cell has a nucleated cell body, with a cup-shaped projection, with flagella covering the inner surface of the cup. The beating of these flagella resemble a flame, giving the cell its name. The cup is attached to a tube cell, whose inner surface is also coated in cilia, which help to move liquid through the tube cell. The tube opens externally through a nephropore, or, in the trematoda, into an excretory bladder
In sponges and coelenterates, waste is diffused through epidermal cells to the surrounding water or into the canals and through gastro vascular cavity by the en-dothermal cells. In flatworms, there are definite ex¬cretory organs, the flame-cells (protonephridia) which discharge the waste outside. This is a really big question because there are so many invertebrates. There may be well over a million species. There are a few big ideas that help in explaining this, though. First, if something is small and surrounded by water, some wastes can just leave the body by a process called diffusion. Diffusion means that things tend to move from where there’s a high concentration to an area where there’s a low concentration
When it is in the hollow cell, the hollow cell takes the food and propels it into little tubes, which are lined with flame cells. These flame cells contain small cilia, these cilia pushes the waste from the flame cells to tubules that excrete the waste from the proglottids. This is called Protonephridia. 