We all know that copper is a good conductor of electricity and that is why it is used to make electric wires. Most of the electric appliances depend on copper wiring as it is cheaper as well as good conductor of electricity. In earlier days copper was used in making water proof roofing material. The copper carbonate and copper sulfate are highly resistant forms of corrosion. Copper as an alloy with nickel is used in ship building as it is corrosion resistant. Copper is used to protect the building from getting affected by lightning.
Copper is much used for electrical wiring, either as a pure metal or in alloys with silver. Copper tubing was most commonly used for plumbing but nowadays PVC plastic is extensively used instead because of its much cheaper cost. Copper is also used to make jewelry and coinage. Copper is used in computers, it is used for building integrated circuts, and even chips. used in alloys like brass, bronze. it is a good conductor of electricity hence is used in electric wires. Copper has many uses, among which are: 1  Rooftops. Yet another answer Copper is sometimes used for covering roofs because it is much less expensive than gold, which is the very best metal to use against erosion! However, if it is situated in a corrosive atmosphere, over several years copper turns a light-green colour due to surface oxidation.
Copper is a chemical element with symbol Cu (from Latin: cuprum) and atomic number 29. It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity. Pure copper is soft and malleable; a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color. It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity, a building material, and a constituent of various metal alloys. 
3) Copper is resistant to corrosion (it is very unreactive). Uses. 1) Copper is the main metal for electrical wiring (compare with aluminium). 2) Copper is malleable which makes it an ideal material for gas pipes and water pipes. Copper is below hydrogen in the reactivity series and therefore it does not react with water. Copper is the metal used for plumbing in houses
Today, because it is such a good conductor of electricity, copper is mostly used in electrical generators and motors, for electrical wiring, and in electronic goods, such as radio and TV sets. Copper also conducts heat well, so it is used in motor vehicle radiators, air-conditioners and home heating systems. Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. Copper was the first metal to be used by humans. It was probably used by 'Neolithic man' to make tools as early as 7000 BC (9000 years ago).
Of all metals, copper is the most effective for cooking. It's the best metallic conductor, apart from silver. The temperature spreads evenly on all sides of the cookware. Your sauces will no longer burn or separate. Melting chocolate will become child's play. Perfect accumulation of heat. 
Copper is the metal used for plumbing in houses, there are many  reasons behind it   1. Copper is the main metal for electrical wiring compare with  aluminium.   2. … Copper is an excellent conductor of electricity and heat.   3. Copper is resistant to corrosion and very unreactive. Copper is easy to use and work with. The minerals in water generally do not build up on copper as easily as on galvanized steel. After WWII copper was relatively cheap and available in great quantities so the plumbing products industry changed to it as its standard pipe.
Copper is an excellent electrical conductor. Most of its uses are based on this property or the fact that it is also a good thermal conductor. However, many of its applications also rely on one or more of its other properties. 
Copper has been used in electric wiring since the invention of the electromagnet and the telegraph in the 1820s. The invention of the telephone in 1876 created further demand for copper wire as an electrical conductor. Copper is the electrical conductor in many categories of electrical wiring. Copper wire is used in power generation, power transmission, power distribution, telecommunications, electronics circuitry, and countless types of electrical equipment. Copper and its alloys are also used to make electrical contacts. 