In the meantime, observe your body during and after each run for signs of overtraining. The signs are listed in my post. If you have some of the signs, back off for a day or two or what ever you need to give your body time to recover. And, remember the 48-hour thing. There are two types of overtraining: Sympathetic and Parasympathetic. Most runners are familiar with Sympathetic overtraining, because that is the type of overtraining that is discussed in running books and web sites. However, Parasympathetic overtraining is more serious and needs to be understood
If you don't allow your body adequate time to recover, then you run the risk of undoing all your hard work at the gym or on the track. To be clear, overtraining is not a problem of too much training, but of too little rest and recuperation. 
More: Are You Overtraining? 1. Follow the 90 percent rule. When doing quality workouts (hill repeats, tempo runs, intervals, long runs), push yourself, but always leave something left in the tank. Think about pushing yourself up to about 90 percent of your maximum effort, but never give push it to maximum effort. After finishing a quality workout, you should feel tired. If every run is a hard run, you greatly increase your chances of injury, peaking early, or mentally burning out. Also, running your weekly easy runs at maximum effort can put a damper on your weekly quality workouts and so they're not benefiting you as much as they should. 3. Respect your REST days.
Symptoms of Overtraining in Running. To avoid overtraining in running, look for early signs and take steps to modify your workout schedule. Overtraining is a syndrome defined by a collection of symptoms rather than one specific ailment. There is no definitive test for overtraining. Psychological symptoms can also point to overtraining. A common one is the loss of enthusiasm for running. Workouts become a chore, not something you look forward to. You don't get any pleasure out of racing.
You don't get stronger because you did an awesome workout, you get stronger because you ate right, slept, and recovered afterward.. If your body doesn't have the opportunity to repair itself, your hard work can eventually backfire, causing your running and your quality of life to suffer. Backing off can prevent bodily harm. By Christie Aschwanden Tuesday, October 16, 2007, 12:00 am. Jason Hodgson should have been in the shape of his life--he was running twice a day and logging nearly 100 miles a week.
Overtraining can affect your immune system, and a cold that you have trouble getting over should alert you to the possibility that you're overtraining. Psychological symptoms can also point to overtraining. A common one is the loss of enthusiasm for running. Workouts become a chore, not something you look forward to. You don't get any pleasure out of racing.
Take this test to prevent crossing the fine line between training and overtraining. Jack Raglin, Ph.D., developed a questionnaire to prevent overtraining. Take this quiz once a week--or once a day during periods of hard training. A score of 40 or more means you should rest more and run less. A score of 15 or less suggests you're balancing your training and recovery well. Backing off can prevent bodily harm. By Christie Aschwanden Tuesday, October 16, 2007, 12:00 am. Jason Hodgson should have been in the shape of his life--he was running twice a day and logging nearly 100 miles a week.
In running, you should think more in terms of hard/easy. Hard (or quality) workouts can include speed workouts (intervals, repeats, tempo runs, hill repeats) that are run at about 80 to 90 percent of your VO2Max. Hard runs also include the weekly long run which is run at about 60 to75 percent of your VO2Max. If every run is a hard run, you greatly increase your chances of injury, peaking early, or mentally burning out. Also, running your weekly easy runs at maximum effort can put a damper on your weekly quality workouts and so they're not benefiting you as much as they should. 3. Respect your REST days.
More than half of all runners will overdo it at least once in their running career. Overtraining. It’s a word that strikes fear into the hearts of runners everywhere. Researchers estimate that 61% of all serious runners will go through a period of overtraining at least once in their running career. That’s not an encouraging statistic when you’re pushing the limits to reach your goals. 