The program offers up to 45 months of education benefits. Spouse or dependent child of a veteran who: 1  Is 100% disabled due to a service-connected disability. 2  Is on active duty and missing for more than 90 days. 3  Is missing in action or was captured in the line of duty. 4  Has died due to a service-connected disability or incident. 1
A veteran with a 100% rating will have one or more disabilities that significantly interfere with normal life functions. There is a full range between the two, with the majority of Vermont’s disabled veterans rated at 10%, 20%, or 30%. No for Non-Service Connected Pension. If the veteran with a bad knee above needs to have knee replacement surgery, the VA pays for it. In many cases veterans receiving either Disability Compensation or Non-Service Connected Pension can also use the VA to receive care for conditions not related to their military service.
Educational Benefits. The VA's Dependents' Educational Assistance program provides up to three years and nine months worth of benefits for spouses and children of permanently disabled veterans who are disabled due to service-connected disabilities. A veteran is considered totally and permanently disabled if they have received a disability rating of 100% for service-connected disability compensation and the VA does not expect the condition to improve.
The VA grants individual unemployability only for service-connected conditions. Therefore, any determination of individual unemployability qualifies a veteran for discharge. In the case of a determination that a veteran is 100% disabled, the determination must specify that the disabilities are service-connected. 
The Post-9/11 GI Bill is a benefit for individuals with at least 90 days of aggregate service on or after September 11, 2001, or individuals discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days. 1 Is 100% disabled due to a service-connected disability. 2  Is on active duty and missing for more than 90 days. 3  Is missing in action or was captured in the line of duty. 4  Has died due to a service-connected disability or incident.
Education-A-Must. This organization offers advocacy and programs for families with children with disabilities or health conditions to help them find schools and classroom accommodations. Locate an attorney, child advocate or doctor in your state. For more information call 603-437-6286 or email info@education-a-must.com
The information in this booklet explains the provisions related to, and benefits available to, children with disabilities who are enrolled by their parents in private schools, including religious schools, when the provision of FAPE is not at issue. Therefore, it provides benefits and services to children with disabilities in public schools and requires school districts to make services and benefits available to children with disabilities enrolled by their parents in nonpublic (private) schools.
To count as permanent and total disability, a veteran must have a disability that is service-connected, rated 100% (based on either the Schedule for Rating Disabilities or TDIU), and considered permanent. A veteran is considered totally and permanently disabled if they have received a disability rating of 100% for service-connected disability compensation and the VA does not expect the condition to improve.
U.S. Department of education Provisions Related to Children With Disabilities Enrolled by Their Parents in Private Schools The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Office of Innovation and ImprovementOffice of Non-Public Education. Therefore, it provides benefits and services to children with disabilities in public schools and requires school districts to make services and benefits available to children with disabilities enrolled by their parents in nonpublic (private) schools.