(Topic: GENERAL SAFETY ACT INFORMATION). A: Pursuant to the SAFETY Act, an Act of Terrorism is: ACT OF TERRORISM- (A) The term act of terrorism means any act that the Secretary determines meets the requirements under subparagraph (b) of the Act, as such requirements are further defined and specified by the Secretary. 
Section 1. –. (1) In this Act terrorism means the use or threat of action where-. (a) the action falls within subsection (2), (b) the use or threat is designed to influence the government [or an international governmental organisation] or to intimidate the public or a section of the public, and. Section 41 of the Act provided the police with the power to arrest and detain a person without charge for up to 48 hours if they were suspected of being a terrorist. This period of detention could be extended to up to seven days if the police can persuade a judge that it is necessary for further questioning.
It's ironic -- the word terrorism appears constantly in newscasts, congressional debates and speeches by world leaders, often as a way of securing public support for one security measure or another. But for such a widely used word, there's actually no single definition of what terrorism means. There are many, and often, they're incompatible. Not only is the public confused about what to call terrorism -- the U.S. government is as conflicted as anyone. Hoffman, for what it’s worth, concluded in his book that that terrorism is the deliberate creation and exploitation of fear through violence or the threat of violence in the pursuit of political change.. Hoffman’s logic was that all terrorist acts involve violence or the threat of violence.
Full Definition of TERRORISM. : the systematic use of terror especially as a means of coercion. — ter·ror·ist \-ər-ist\ adjective or noun. — ter·ror·is·tic \ˌter-ər-ˈis-tik\ adjective. See terrorism defined for English-language learners. See terrorism defined for kids. 
Noun. 1. terrorist act-the calculated use of violence (or the threat of violence) against civilians in order to attain goals that are political or religious or ideological in nature; this is done through intimidation or coercion or instilling fear. act of terrorism, terrorism. frightening, terrorisation, terrorization-the act of inspiring with fear. terrorist attack-a surprise attack involving the deliberate use of violence against civilians in the hope of attaining political or religious aims.
In this Act terrorism means the use of violence for political ends, and includes any use of violence for the purpose of putting the public or any section of the public in fear. The Terrorism Act 2000 (c.11) is the first of a number of general Terrorism Acts passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It superseded and repealed the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1989 and the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act 1996. Section 41 of the Act provided the police with the power to arrest and detain a person without charge for up to 48 hours if they were suspected of being a terrorist. This period of detention could be extended to up to seven days if the police can persuade a judge that it is necessary for further questioning.
The term terrorism itself was originally used to describe the actions of the Jacobin Club during the  Reign of Terror  in the French Revolution. Terror is nothing other than justice, prompt, severe, inflexible, said Jacobin leader Maximilien Robespierre. After the Jacobins lost power, the word terrorist became a term of abuse. Although terrorism originally referred to acts committed by a government, currently it usually refers to the killing of innocent people for political purposes in such a way as to create a media spectacle.
Terrorism is defined in the Terrorism Act 2000 (TACT 2000) and means the use or threat of action where 1  –. The action 2  –. involves serious violence against a person, 3  involves serious damage to property, 4  endangers a person's life, other than that of the person committing the action, 
There is the famous statement: 'One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter.' But that is grossly misleading. It assesses the validity of the cause when terrorism is an act. One can have a perfectly beautiful cause and yet if one commits terrorist acts, it is terrorism regardless. After the Jacobins lost power, the word terrorist became a term of abuse. Although terrorism originally referred to acts committed by a government, currently it usually refers to the killing of innocent people for political purposes in such a way as to create a media spectacle.