Common table salt (NaCl) is an electrolyte, and when this is dissolved in water to form salt water, it becomes sodium ions (Na +) and chloride ions (Cl -), each of which is a corpuscle that conducts electricity. Let's go back to conductivity. Conductivity is an index of how easy it is for electricity to flow. 
The chemical compound potassium chloride (KCl) is a metal halide salt composed of potassium and chloride. It is odorless and has a white or colorless vitreous crystal appearance. The solid dissolves readily in water and its solutions have a salt-like taste. 
A lightbulb is above the beaker with two wires in the KCl solution. The lightbulb is plugged in] Will... show more The question is: A 0.25 M aqueous solution of potassium chloride is tested for conductivity using the type of apparatus shown.
Potassium is a metal. Like other metals, potassium will conduct electricity in both the solid and liquid (or molten) forms. The solid salt of potassium and iodine, potassium iodide (KI) conducts poorly, as do all salts, which are ionic compounds. But lets look at another situation. KI will co … nduct very well when it is in solution. All salts are good conductors when
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (derived from Neo-Latin, kalium) and atomic number 19. It was first isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, from which its name is derived. In the Periodic table, potassium is one of seven elements in column (group) 1 (alkali metals): they all have a single valence electron in their outer electron shell, which they readily give up to create an atom with a positive charge-a cation, and combine with anions to form salts.
Potassium in nature occurs only in ionic salts. Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts vigorously with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame. In the Periodic table, potassium is one of seven elements in column (group) 1 (alkali metals): they all have a single valence electron in their outer electron shell, which they readily give up to create an atom with a positive charge-a cation, and combine with anions to form salts.
Potassium is a metal and is the seventh most abundant and makes up about 1.5 % by weight of the earth's crust. Potassium is an essential constituent for plant growth and it is found in most soils. It is also a vital element in the human diet. Potassium is never found free in nature, but is obtained by electrolysis of the chloride or hydroxide, much in the same manner as prepared by Davy.
Potassium hydroxide is a strong alkali and an important industrial chemical. It is used in the manufacture of soft soaps and as an electrolyte in alkaline batteries. Potassium chloride is used as a healthier alternative to table salt. Toughened glass can be made by immersing glass in molten potassium nitrate. Potassium nitrate is the main explosive ingredient in gunpowder.
The solid salt of potassium and iodine, potassium iodide (KI) conducts poorly, as do all salts, which are ionic compounds. But lets look at another situation. KI will conduct very well when it is in solution. All salts are good conductors when in solution. Salts, being ionic compounds, break down in water when they dissolve. They dissociate into ions, and in the case of potassium iodide, into K+ and I-ions. These ions are mobile in solution, and they'll support current flow.