From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A bonded warehouse, or bond, is a building or other secured area in which dutiable goods may be stored, manipulated, or undergo manufacturing operations without payment of duty. It may be managed by the state or by private enterprise. In the latter case a customs bond must be posted with the government. This system exists in all developed countries of the world. Upon entry of goods into the warehouse, the importer and warehouse proprietor incur liability under a bond.
A Bonded warehouse is a building or other secured area in which dutiable goods may be stored, manipulated, or undergo manufacturing operations without payment of duty. A warehouse authorized by Customs authorities for storage of goods on which payment of duties is deferred until the goods are removed.
Previous to the establishment of bonded warehouses in England the payment of duties on imported goods had to be made at the time of importation, or a bond with security for future payment given to the revenue authorities. It may be managed by the state or by private enterprise. In the latter case a customs bond must be posted with the government. This system exists in all developed countries of the world. Upon entry of goods into the warehouse, the importer and warehouse proprietor incur liability under a bond.
Definition of BONDED WAREHOUSE. 1. : a warehouse under bond to the government for payment of customs duties and taxes on goods stored or processed there. 2. : a warehouse insured against loss or damage to goods stored therein. ADVERTISEMENT
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Bonded warehouses are warehouses in which dutiable goods may be stored without paying the duties on them. For importers, there are a number of advantages to using this type of storage, which makes them a popular option in many ports all over the world. Also known as a customs warehouse, a bonded warehouse acts sort of like a no man's land where goods can be deposited without an importer or an agent needing to pay duties on them. If the importer decides to sell the goods for re-export, duties will not be incurre
The inventory is called bonded because the importer must post a customs bond to the government as collateral for the duty on the goods. When the importer transfers the goods to another country, it may redeem the customs bond and get paid back its customs deposit. Bonded Warehouses. Bonded inventory is stored in a bonded warehouse while it remains in an intermediary country. A bonded warehouse can be run by a private company or by the government. The importer only needs to buy a customs bond for goods held in a private bonded warehouse
(Choose carefully, this can't be changed). Saving... A Bonded warehouse is a warehouse in which goods on which the duties are unpaid are stored under bond and in the joint custody of the importer, or his agent, and the customs officers. It may be managed by the state or by private enterprise. In the latter case a custom bond must be posted with the government. 
A warehouse in which imports may be stored without payment of tariffs or other duties for a certain period of time. A bonded warehouse provides not only space but also facilities to clean, repackage or even complete the manufacture of the imports. It is called a bonded warehouse because the importer must post a bond to compensate the government if the goods are released without tariff payment. It is also called bonded storage or a bonded terminal. See also: Bonded goods.