B-cell coreceptor. Definitions: 1. a complex of three proteins associated with the B-cell receptor (CR2, CD19, and TAPA-1). The definition information for B-cell coreceptor is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
The term co-receptor is prominent in literature regarding signal transduction, the process by which external stimuli regulate internal cellular functioning. The key to optimal cellular functioning is maintained by possessing specific machinery that can carry out tasks efficiently and effectively. In immunology in particular, the term co-receptor often describes a secondary receptor used by a pathogen to gain access to the cell, or a receptor that works alongside T cell receptors such as CD4, CD8, or CD28 to bind antigens or regulate T cell activity in some way.
Activation of the B-Cell receptor by antigen also results in the production of memory cells that persist in circulation to produce a more rapid immune response after future challenges by the same antigen. The bound antigen molecules are engulfed into the B-Cell by receptor-mediated endocytosis. B-Cells are not only produced in the bone marrow but they also mature there. Each B-Cell is specific for a particular antigen. The specificity of binding resides in the BCR (B-Cell receptor) for antigen.
A co-receptor is a cell surface receptor that binds a signalling molecule in addition to a primary receptor in order to facilitate ligand recognition and initiate biological processes, such as entry of a pathogen into a host cell. In immunology in particular, the term co-receptor often describes a secondary receptor used by a pathogen to gain access to the cell, or a receptor that works alongside T cell receptors such as CD4, CD8, or CD28 to bind antigens or regulate T cell activity in some way.
Perhaps the most famous and well-studied of the CCR family is CCR5 (and its near-homologue CXCR4) which acts as the primary co-receptor for HIV viral infection. The HIV envelope glycoprotein GP120 binds to CD4 as its primary receptor, CCR5 then forms a complex with CD4 and HIV, allowing viral entry into the cell. In immunology in particular, the term co-receptor often describes a secondary receptor used by a pathogen to gain access to the cell, or a receptor that works alongside T cell receptors such as CD4, CD8, or CD28 to bind antigens or regulate T cell activity in some way.
The CD receptor family typically act as co-receptors, illustrated by the classic example of CD4 acting as a co-receptor to the T cell receptor (TCR) to bind major histocompatibility complex II (MHC-II). In immunology in particular, the term co-receptor often describes a secondary receptor used by a pathogen to gain access to the cell, or a receptor that works alongside T cell receptors such as CD4, CD8, or CD28 to bind antigens or regulate T cell activity in some way.
The B-cell receptor includes both CD79 and the immunoglobulin. The plasma membrane of a B cell is indicated by the green phospholipids. The B cell receptor extends both outside the cell (above the plasma membrane) and inside the cell (below the membrane). The B-cell receptor or BCR is a transmembrane receptor protein located on the outer surface of B-cells. The B-cell receptor is composed of two parts: i) A membrane-bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (IgD, IgM, IgA or IgE).
When the receptor is on the cell surface of B-lymphocytes it functions to transmit intracellular signals that regulate cell growth and differentiation and it binds to antigen for the generation of the immune response (Ref. 4). Most B-Cell antigens are T dependent. B-Cells are not only produced in the bone marrow but they also mature there. Each B-Cell is specific for a particular antigen. The specificity of binding resides in the BCR (B-Cell receptor) for antigen.
A single HIV particle is called a virion. Its core, called the capsid, contains two single strands of HIV RNA. The core is surrounded by a protective lipid bilayer and this shell is called the viral envelope. Enmeshed in the viral envelope is a complex HIV protein called env. Two glycoproteins make up env and these protrude from the virion. The cap of the protein is called gp120 and the stem is gp41. For HIV to enter a host cell, it must first use gp120 to attach to a CD4 receptor. M-tropic and T-tropic strains of HIV coexist in the body. At some point in infection, gp120 is able to attach to either CCR5 or CXCR4. This is called dual tropic virus or R5X4 HIV. Virus that can utilise the CXCR4 receptor on both macrophages and T-cells is also termed dual-tropic X4 HIV.