Definition of Dystopia, Dystopian fiction. In its most basic sense, you could say that dystopia is the opposite of utopia, referring to fictional societies that are incredibly imperfect, lacking the harmonious and egalitarian qualities of life depicted in utopias.
Sacred-texts home Buy CD-ROM Utopia and Dystopia The dream of a golden age, first expressed by Hesiod, and philosophical writings such as Plato's Republic, has become a recurring theme in literature. Many have attempted to define the ideal society. For some, the dream has turned into a nightmare, a dystopia. This page includes the best of these speculations. Utopia by Sir Thomas More [1516] Mores' work is a fictional travelogue to a country named 'Utopia', which means 'nowhere' in Greek.
Jonas’ community appears to be a utopia, but, in reality, it is a dystopia. The people seem perfectly content to live in an isolated wreck—in a government run by a select few—in which a group of Elders enforces the rules. 
(February 2015). A dystopia (from the Greek δυσ- and τόπος, alternatively, cacotopia, kakotopia, or simply anti-utopia) is a community or society that is undesirable or frightening. Utopia is the blueprint for an ideal society with no crime or poverty. By contrast, dystopia is a nightmare world which, in many cases, has resulted from attempts to create an ideal society. Such dystopian societies appear in many artistic works, particularly in stories set in a future
You might have heard the terms 'utopia' and 'dystopia' before, but maybe you don't know what they mean. Luckily, you've come to the right place! This lesson will explore the concept of both utopias and dystopias, which are two types of worlds that are popular in speculative fiction or science fiction stories. Dystopia is a play on the made-up word 'utopia' using the root 'dys,' which means 'bad or difficult.' Words like 'dysfunctional' or 'dyslexia' illustrate the use of this prefix.
See also: Utopian and dystopian fiction. A dystopia (from the Greek δυσ- and τόπος, alternatively, cacotopia, kakotopia, or simply anti-utopia) is a community or society that is undesirable or frightening. Utopia is the blueprint for an ideal society with no crime or poverty. By contrast, dystopia is a nightmare world which, in many cases, has resulted from attempts to create an ideal society. Such dystopian societies appear in many artistic works, particularly in stories set in a future
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The utopia and its offshoot, the dystopia, are genres of literature that explore social and political structures. Utopian fiction is the creation of an ideal society, or utopia, as the setting foror dystopia. Most notably, however, his Three Californias Trilogy contrasted an eco-dystopia with an eco-utopia, and a sort of middling-future. Robinson has also edited an anthology of short ecotopian fiction, called Future Primitive: The New Ecotopias.
Concepts of utopia and dystopia represent imaginary societies in which people live their life either in a perfect environment, governed by the laws that provide happiness to everyone, or in an oppressive society that is ruled by repressive and controlled state. In it, he first postulated the main themes of utopian society and his visions of the perfect Greek city-state that provided stable life for all of its citizens. The modern world “Utopia” came to life during early years of 16th century, in the work of the famous English philosopher Thomas Moore.