Carpenter ants vary in size, ranging from 3.4 to 13 mm in length. One carpenter ant colony can contain different sizes of ants, depending on caste and responsibility. The color of carpenter ants also varies among species, ranging from jet-black to dark brown, red, black, yellow, orange, yellowish tan or light brown.
1 Pre-filled bait traps or stakes designed for consumer use can cost $3-$55, depending on the brand, type and amount. 2  For example, a six-pack of Terro bait traps, a borax-based ant control method, is sold at hardware and discount stores for $5-$10.
1 An exterminator can charge about $150 to $1,250 for a one-time treatment depending on the type of ant (the carpenter ant treatments tend to be quite costly), the size of property, the severity of the ant problem, and methods used.
Ants are a common nuisance pest and they’re only getting more common. According to a 2011 study conducted by the National Pest Management Association (NPMA), ant infestations are on the rise due to increased moisture, changing pest control practices, and new species.
1 Ongoing maintenance treatments can cost about $250 per year, according to the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 2  Fire ant control can cost $10-$50 or more for do-it-yourself methods, or $100-$300 or more for treatment by a pest control company or landscaping service.
1 For carpenter ants, once the nest is located, the technician will typically drill holes and treat the surrounding wood with insecticide, moving outward from the nest's location, and ending with a residual insecticide spray of the home's perimeter. 2  BugSpray.com posts a video showing how to track carpenter ant trails.
Learn how to identify carpenter ants. Carpenter ants are a group of ants belonging to the genus Camponotus, of which there are over 1,000 species. Carpenter ants live on every continent except for Antarctica and, as individual species, have a wide variety of differentiating features.
The first step to controlling Carpenter Ants is inspection, to determine if they are located outside and simply foraging inside, or if you have a colony or satellite colony inside your home. 2. Determine Control Measure.
If the ant has wings, there is very little doubt that it is a carpenter ant. Carpenter ants are common across the U.S. and are the largest of all common ant species. However, size will vary, even within a single colony, with the worker ants varying in size from 1/4 inch to 5/8 inch.