Unaffiliated (25%). others (7%). The majority religion in Chile in 2015 is Christianity (68%), with an estimated 55% of Chileans belonging to the Catholic church, 13% Protestant or Evangelical and just 7% with any other religion. 
Food & Drink. Typical meals in Chile consist mainly of lots of meat, especially beef and chicken, rice and potatoes, fresh fruit and vegetables from the fields of Central Chile. Even though seafood could be the common daily meal in Chile with its 5.000 km long coast, it is not. The coffee culture in Chile has improved, but many simple restaurants and bars still serve Nescafe. Nescafé look for an espresso machine and then “order cafe” café “cafe café”. Or cafe café espress In the center of santiago you Can find: A True chilean specialty the chileans “call these dim” (places cafe café). con piernas cafe café with legs
Chile's geographical shape is quite peculiar. Chile has a longitude of 2,650 miles (4,265 kilometers) making of it one of the longest countries in the world. This is in dramatic contrast with the country's average width, which does not exceed 221 miles (356 kilometers). Chile is considered to be one of the most homogeneous nations of Latin America in both ethnic and cultural terms. In contrast to many other Latin American nations, Chile has not experienced the emergence of strong regionalism or conflicting regional cultural identities.
Chile. Being such a long country stretched over a variety of landscapes, Chile has a vast range of food and drink. One of the highlights of Chilean Cuisine is its diversity of Seafood due to its 4,270 km (2,647 miles) of coastline. Another thing not to be missed while in Chile is its high quality red win
Chile's Climate. Chile is a country of vast climate extremes. Due to Chile's long slender shape spanning from Peru in the north to Antarctica in the south, you'll experience a very different climate depending on what part of the country you visit. As a general rule, the farther north the hotter and drier the climate. As you head south, you'll see a cooler and wetter climate
Chile takes a great deal of pride in its long history, impressive geography, unique culture, and its religious and indigenous roots. A warm, open and fun-loving people, Chileans are always ready to celebrate. 
Chile is a large and narrow strip situated in southwest South America, bounded on the north by Peru, on the east by Bolivia and Argentina, and on the west and south by the Pacific Ocean. Formidable natural barriers mark present-day Chile's boundaries, isolating the country from the rest of South America. Chile is considered to be one of the most homogeneous nations of Latin America in both ethnic and cultural terms. In contrast to many other Latin American nations, Chile has not experienced the emergence of strong regionalism or conflicting regional cultural identities.
(November 2010). The culture of Chile reflects the relatively homogeneous population as well as the geographic isolation of the country in relation to the rest of South America. Since colonial times, the Chilean culture has been a mix of Spanish colonial elements with indigenous (mostly Mapuche) culture. The Huasos of Central Chile and their folk music and dance are central to Chilean folk culture.