Timelines & Charts. Map of the Roman Empire-Aegean Sea. Aegean Sea. M-5 on the Map. Aegean Sea Aigaion (Turkish Ege). The Aegean Sea is located between Asia Minor and Greece, and southward to Crete. There are an incredible number of small islands in the Aegean Sea. 
by Joshua J. Mark. The Aegean Sea lies between the coast of Greece and Asia Minor (modern-day Turkey). It contains over 2,000 islands which were settled by the ancient Greeks; the largest among them being Crete (Kriti) and the best known and most often photographed, Santorini (Thera or Thira). Paros is an island in the Cyclades group in the central Aegean. It is the third largest island of the Cyclades and its position on important sea routes between mainland Greece and the coast of Asia Minor made it an important centre from the early Bronze Age through to Roman times.
Report Abuse. Aegean Sea is part of Greece and it is located East/South of the Greek mainland. There are over 1400 islands of Greece and 93 of them are located in the Aegean Sea. Roulaki · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Submit questions-New Articles. The Aegean Sea is an elongated bay of the Mediterranean Sea located between the mainland of Greece and Turkey. It covers about 214,000 square kilometers (83,000 square miles) in area. East of Crete the sea reaches its maximum depth of 3,543 meters (11,624 feet). The Aegean Sea is also the place where the Apostle John wrote the book of Revelation, the last book of the Bible. He was exiled by Roman Emperor Domitian to the island of Patmos in 95 A.D. because of the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ (Revelation 1:9).
; Turkish: Ege Denizi or Adalar Denizi) is an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean Sea located between the Greek and Anatolian peninsulas, i.e., between the mainlands of Greece and Turkey. In the north, it is connected to the Marmara Sea and Black Sea by the Dardanelles and Bosporus. The subsequent Bronze Age civilizations of Greece and the Aegean Sea have given rise to the general term Aegean civilization. In ancient times, the sea was the birthplace of two ancient civilizations – the Minoans of Crete and the Mycenean Civilization of the Peloponnese.
The Aegean Sea features prominently in many of the most famous Greek myths (Icarus and Daedelus, Theseus and the Minotaur, Jason and the Argonauts, The Odyssey, among others) and Plato made ample use of the islands in his dialogues. Paros is an island in the Cyclades group in the central Aegean. It is the third largest island of the Cyclades and its position on important sea routes between mainland Greece and the coast of Asia Minor made it an important centre from the early Bronze Age through to Roman times.
Positioned between Greece and Turkey, the Aegean Sea, part of the Mediterranean Sea, also includes the Sea of Crete and Thracian Sea. Covering an area of approximately 214,000 sq km, it's bordered in the northeast by the Dardanellas Strait, and in the south by the Ionian Sea, Mediterranean Sea and the island of Crete.