1. indicating the most important performer or role. Familiarity information: STAR used as an adjective is very rare. • STAR (verb). The verb STAR has 3 senses: 1. feature as the star. 2. be the star in a performance. 3. mark with an asterisk. Familiarity information: STAR used as a verb is uncommon. red dwarf; red dwarf star (a small cool star; approximately 100 times the mass of Jupiter). red giant; red giant star (a large cool star; has a relatively low surface temperature and a diameter large relative to the sun). variable; variable star (a star that varies noticeably in brightness).
The star and crescent appear, used in combination, in and around ancient Israel. It has been associated with the Moabites (14th or early 13th – 6th century BC), as the symbol or symbols appear on what are thought to be Moabite name seals. […] Ma and Mithras are two other deities with whom the star and crescent symbol are associated. Olshausen believed that the star and crescent could be related to a syncretism of Pontic and Iranian iconography: the crescent for Men and the star for Ahura Mazda.
View the Star Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Star has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Star to other names. The name Starla is a form of Star. Star falls into the name categories celestial, cool. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Star is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Star. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1904 in baby name popularity for girls with 105 occurrences. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
The signification of stars is the knowledges of good and truth. That stars have this signification in the Word is because they are small luminaries which shine at night, when they give forth into our atmosphere gleams of light, just as knowledges give forth gleams of good and truth. [8] As stars signify the knowledges of good and truth, they signify also the doctrinals of the church, for these are knowledges. The doctrinal respecting faith separate from charity in the last times, is thus described by a star in the Revelation :
A pentagram (sometimes known as a pentalpha or pentangle or a star pentagon) is the shape of a five-pointed star drawn with five straight strokes. The word pentagram comes from the Greek word πεντάγραμμον (pentagrammon), from πέντε (pente), five + γραμμή (grammē), line. The word  pentacle  is sometimes used synonymously with pentagram. The word pentalpha is a learned modern (17th-century) revival of a post-classical Greek name of the shape. The pentagram contains ten points (the five points of the star, and the five vertices of the inner pentagon) and fifteen line segments. It is represented by the Schlaefli schläfli {symbol/5}. 2
The noun STAR has 8 senses: 1. (astronomy) a celestial body of hot gases that radiates energy derived from thermonuclear reactions in the interior. 2. someone who is dazzlingly skilled in any field. 3. any celestial body visible (as a point of light) from the Earth at night. 4. a plane figure with 5 or more points; often used as an emblem. red dwarf; red dwarf star (a small cool star; approximately 100 times the mass of Jupiter). red giant; red giant star (a large cool star; has a relatively low surface temperature and a diameter large relative to the sun). variable; variable star (a star that varies noticeably in brightness).
7. a star-shaped character * used in printing. 8. the topology of a network whose components are connected to a hub. Familiarity information: STAR used as a noun is common. red dwarf; red dwarf star (a small cool star; approximately 100 times the mass of Jupiter). red giant; red giant star (a large cool star; has a relatively low surface temperature and a diameter large relative to the sun). variable; variable star (a star that varies noticeably in brightness).
Star /star/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is of English derivation. Star is an alternate spelling of Starla (English): astronomical name based on star. Stair is a familiar surname. Kreatif forms: Sastar, Starri, Starsa. Star is a very popular first name for women (#1890 out of 4276, Top 44%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#15061 out of 150436, Top 10%).
star (noun). (astronomy) a celestial body of hot gases that radiates energy derived from thermonuclear reactions in the interior. ace, adept, champion, sensation, maven, mavin, virtuoso, genius, hotshot, star, superstar, whiz, whizz, wizard, wiz (noun). someone who is dazzlingly skilled in any field. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: star (Noun). Any small luminous dot appearing in the cloudless portion of the night sky, especially with a fixed location relative to other such dots.