A cell phone’s shelf life is only about 24 months for the average consumer. This means that newer cell phone models are constantly put up on the market to replace older ones. This is as a result of the rapid progression of technology in the mobile industry. In 2006, according to the study the average cost for U.S. cell phone refurbishers ReCellular, PaceButler and RMS was $2.10 while the average revenue from said phones was $17. Of the two recycling methods, refurbishment of cell phones is significantly more profitable than recycling the internal parts.
If your question is how long does the average user actually *hold on* to their cell phone, I'd guess 18 months. I don't see many people I know using any particular phone much more than 18 months. People don't perceive cell phones as an accessory they expect to keep for great lengths of time. If the scope of your question is how long *can and should* a cell phone last, the answer -- with proper care -- is probably somewhere between 3 and 10 years.
1 The average life span of a cell phone is just 18 months. 2  The average American cell phone user owns three or more cellular phones. 3  Up to 75% of obsolete phones are stockpiled in drawers, including the battery and the charger [8]. 1 A global consumer survey released by Nokia reveals that only 3% of the total mobile phone users recycle their phones (6,500 people in 13 countries were interviewed, owning an average of 5 phones each) [5].
1 Less than 1 percent of the millions of cell phones retired and discarded annually are recycled [4]. 2  A global consumer survey released by Nokia reveals that only 3% of the total mobile phone users recycle their phones (6,500 people in 13 countries were interviewed, owning an average of 5 phones each) [5]. 1 A global consumer survey released by Nokia reveals that only 3% of the total mobile phone users recycle their phones (6,500 people in 13 countries were interviewed, owning an average of 5 phones each) [5].
The study combines primary, secondary and field research in Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. The average lifespan of a mobile phone in India is significantly longer: six to eight years, compared with 22 months in Western countries. India has a reputation for a well-established grey market in second-hand phones and electronic waste. Re-use is important and that the extended lifespan of the mobile phone in India, in all its manifestations, is a good thing—it maximizes the usefulness of the mobile phone and increases accessibility to all income levels of a diverse society.
Average. The average life span of a cell phone battery is from 400 to 500 charge cycles. That means the average battery lasts from one to two years. A decrease in the duration of the battery's lifespan between charge cycles indicates that the battery should be replaced. Lithium ion batteries usually maintain their full capacity for most of their lifetimes, and then die suddenly.
1 Every year, over 100 million cell phones are made obsolete. 2  The average life span of a cell phone is just 18 months. 3  The average American cell phone user owns three or more cellular phones. 4  Up to 75% of obsolete phones are stockpiled in drawers, including the battery and the charger [8]. 1 A global consumer survey released by Nokia reveals that only 3% of the total mobile phone users recycle their phones (6,500 people in 13 countries were interviewed, owning an average of 5 phones each) [5].
The lifespan of a cordless phone battery depends on the quality of your cordless phone. If properly charged and used with care, the average life span is 1-3 years. The average battery life of a Sharp mobile phone is 3 hours when it is used on an average daily basis. The battery life of a phone is determined by the way it is used.
The average life of a mobile device in India is eight years, perhaps the longest compared with anywhere in the world. Osama Manzar. Share. First Published: Mon, Oct 07 2013. 12 23 AM IST. Photo: Mint. The average life of a mobile device in India is eight years, perhaps the longest compared with anywhere in the world. Re-use is important and that the extended lifespan of the mobile phone in India, in all its manifestations, is a good thing—it maximizes the usefulness of the mobile phone and increases accessibility to all income levels of a diverse society.