Litter and waste is chosen as the first. theme because: The subject is particularly relevant to and part of the curriculum in both primary and secondary schools. Litter is a visible problem; both students and the local community will notice improvements in the appearance and image of the school.
Litter can cause a whole range of problems for everyone in our communities. Litter discarded in streets and parks can travel through the storm water system to our rivers and creeks, where it can cause harm to wildlife. 1  Litter costs money.
Litter is always caused by people. It is waste in the wrong place which ruins the appearance of our towns and countryside. Litter has many forms and many sources, from a sweet wrapper thrown on the street to a dumped bag of rubbish or a fly-tipped load of demolition rubble.
It is amazing that 94% of people identify litter as a major environmental problem and yet people still litter. Carelessly discarded garbage affects every member of society: it causes harm to people and animals, damages our waterways, cost us money and suggests that we do not care for our environment.
1 Removing litter from the environment costs everyone money. 2  Litter is a threat to public health. 3  Litter attracts vermin and is a breeding ground for bacteria. 4  Items such as broken glass and syringes can be a health hazard in public places.
Contacts for waste and litter pollution. Where the depositing of waste causes or threatens material harm to the environment, a number of authorities must be notified-see duty to notify.
Before you even start to think about the solution you need to find out more about the problem. Carry out a litter survey in and around the school to find out how big your litter problem is and who or what causes it.
Research and experience have shown that litter is the result of individual behavior—choosing to litter or being careless in the handling of waste. And once litter is on the ground, it attracts more litter. A clean community, by contrast, can discourage littering and improve community appearance and quality of life.
Cats are fastidious creatures, and nowhere is that more evident than in their litter box habits. When your cat won’t use the litter box -- and at least 10% of all cats develop an elimination problem -- the cause could be anything from an unclean box to an illness.