Caucasian: Many Caucasians have stereotypes not only put on them by other cultures, but also by others that are Caucasian themselves. There is the rich and snooty, the jocks, the dumb blond, the cheerleader, and many more. Definition: A fixed impression which may have little basis in fact, but is nevertheless perpetuated by persons unwilling to look more deeply into the matter. This means that a person has an opinion about someone before they have even met them.
Stereotypes can also be based on individual impairments. [edit] Stereotypes in culture Stereotypes are common in the world of drama, where the term is often used as a form of dramatic shorthand for stock character. Increasingly the active use of stereotypes in drama is a prerequisite for an audience accepting them as legitimate. Best Answer: It's a generalization of a group of people, such as a race or a nationality. For example, some common sterotypes are that all Americans are cowboys, all Mexicans are border-hoppers, things like that. Stereotypes stem from people's ignorance for people that are different than them
Stereotype Threat. Stereotype threat refers to the risk of confirming negative stereotypes about an individual’s racial, ethnic, gender, or cultural group. 
· just now. Report Abuse. There are many examples of cultural stereotype. It is when you build groups in your mind or categories..say you have the category white American Asian American French German etc. and you attribute certain properties to those people, in stereotyping usually negative. 
An assumption or generalization of a person based on misinformation. Similar to a prejudices, that a decision or assumption is formed prior to the collections of individual fact about a specific subject. Best Answer: It's a generalization of a group of people, such as a race or a nationality. For example, some common sterotypes are that all Americans are cowboys, all Mexicans are border-hoppers, things like that. Stereotypes stem from people's ignorance for people that are different than them
One explanation for why stereotypes are shared is that they are the result of a common environment that stimulates people to react in the same way. The problem with the ‘common environment’ explanation in general is that it does not explain how shared stereotypes can occur without direct stimuli. The term stereotype derives from the Greek words στερεός (stereos), firm, solid and τύπος (typos), impression, hence solid impression. The term comes from the printing trade and was first adopted in 1798 by Firmin Didot to describe a printing plate that duplicated any typography
The word stereotype actually means to catagorise a group of people based on something like their appearance, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, beliefs, or culture. A stereotype is a belief about a group of people that is not necessarily true. It is a generalization that assumes that all people act the same way. Some examples of stereotyp … es are: African American people are all good at basketball.
Stereotype content refers to the attributes that people think characterize a group. Studies of stereotype content examine what people think of others, rather than the reasons and mechanisms involved in stereotyping. The term stereotype derives from the Greek words στερεός (stereos), firm, solid and τύπος (typos), impression, hence solid impression. The term comes from the printing trade and was first adopted in 1798 by Firmin Didot to describe a printing plate that duplicated any typography