Citigroup was formed from one of the world's largest mergers in history by combining the banking giant Citicorp and financial conglomerate Travelers Group in October 1998 (announced on April 7, 1998). Eventually by December 2010, Citigroup repaid the emergency aid in full and the US government received an additional $12 billion profit in selling its shares. US Government restrictions on pay and oversight of the senior management were removed after the US government sold its remaining 27% stake as of December 2010.
At its height until the global financial crisis of 2008 Citigroup was the largest company and bank in the world by total assets with 357,000 employees. In 2007, Citigroup was one of the primary dealers in US Treasury securities. Eventually by December 2010, Citigroup repaid the emergency aid in full and the US government received an additional $12 billion profit in selling its shares. US Government restrictions on pay and oversight of the senior management were removed after the US government sold its remaining 27% stake as of December 2010.
As of June 2012, the year of Citi's 200th anniversary, Citigroup had built up an enormous cash reserve in the wake of the financial crisis with $420 billion in surplus liquid cash and government securities. Eventually by December 2010, Citigroup repaid the emergency aid in full and the US government received an additional $12 billion profit in selling its shares. US Government restrictions on pay and oversight of the senior management were removed after the US government sold its remaining 27% stake as of December 2010.
Citi currently operates, for management reporting purposes, via two primary business segments: Citicorp, representing Citi's core growth franchises and Citi Holdings which contains businesses and assets that are not core to Citi's future. For a reconciliation of this measure to reported results, see Appendix E of Citi's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Press Release. 4 Preliminary. Citigroup's Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio under the U.S. Basel III rules, on a fully-implemented basis, is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management. For a reconciliation of this measure to reported results, see Appendix E of Citi's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Press Release. 4 Preliminary. Citigroup's Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio under the U.S. Basel III rules, on a fully-implemented basis, is a non-GAAP financial measure.
On February 27, 2009, Citigroup announced that the US government would take a 36% equity stake in the company by converting US$25 billion in emergency aid into common stock with a US Treasury credit line of $45 billion to prevent the bankruptcy of the largest bank in the world at the time. Eventually by December 2010, Citigroup repaid the emergency aid in full and the US government received an additional $12 billion profit in selling its shares. US Government restrictions on pay and oversight of the senior management were removed after the US government sold its remaining 27% stake as of December 2010.
Please check back later. Profile. Citigroup Inc. is a diversified financial services holding company that provides a broad range of financial services to consumer and corporate customers. The Company services include investment banking, retail brokerage, corporate banking, and cash management products and services. Citigroup serves customers globally.
Citigroup Inc is a financial services holding company. It provides financial products and services, including consumer banking, credit cards, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage and wealth management. Sector: Financial. 