AmeriFlex was added to doxo by a doxo user. The information in this profile is added by users and public sources. Learn. Errors may exist. To add information to this profile, or remedy errors, users may to this information. AmeriFlex cannot be paid online. Check the website for AmeriFlex for additional bill pay information at www.flex125.com. You may also contactl AmeriFlex by phone at 856-631-1038.
Cold compression therapy is used to reduce pain and swelling from a sports or activity injury to soft tissues; including surgeries. The therapy is especially useful for sprains, strains, pulled muscles and pulled ligaments. Cold Compression is a combination of cryotherapy and compression. Home is where the heart is. It`s more than a place filled of tapestries. It’s a place that holds memories of life, love and family. It is a place where new experiences transform as families welcome their loved ones home into the care of Ameriflex Home Health Care.
NEW! ACA Compliance Module! The ACA module is the only solution that is delivered on the power of a single platform for HR/benefits administration, time and attendance, and payroll. With a single record for each employee, you can streamline and automate the benefits enrollment process as employees reach eligibility. 
If you participate in the AmeriFlex FSA plan, you will elect to have a specified amount of “pre-tax” money deducted from your paycheck each pay period. These funds are subtracted from your gross earnings before taxes and put into an FSA that you can then use to pay for eligible out-of-pocket expenses. The AmeriFlex Convenience Card works just like a regular debit card, but with three important differences: 1  Its use is limited to specific merchants* and to expenses deemed eligible by your plan. 2  You cannot use your AmeriFlex Convenience Card at an ATM or to obtain “cash back” when making a purchase.
The easiest way to pay for eligible expenses is to use your AmeriFlex Convenience Card, which provides you with access to your FSA accounts (Medical or Dependent Day Care) with a single card. The AmeriFlex Convenience Card works just like a regular debit card, but with three important differences: 1  Its use is limited to specific merchants* and to expenses deemed eligible by your plan. 2  You cannot use your AmeriFlex Convenience Card at an ATM or to obtain “cash back” when making a purchase.
Welcome to Ameriflex’s new ePOP+ Portal. To order plan documents or to access your existing POP account(s), please Log In. If you already have an account in our Broker Portal, you may log in using that username/password. If you do not have a User Name and Password, you may create a new account. Thank you for choosing Ameriflex to provide your client with superior Flexible Benefits administration.
Ameriflex, Inc. ® can produce the close dimensional tolerance machine parts you need in quick turnaround times and at competitive prices. Request a quote for vacuum products for your application, call us directly at (951) 737-5557, or contact us to learn more. About Us. Ameriflex, Inc. ® is has built its reputation on precision, experience, and quality manufacturing. We have been a wholesale manufacturer of electronic component parts addressing the semiconductor, aerospace, lab and university, power generation, and many other industries since our doors first opened in 1981.
Ameriflex utilizes the latest technologies in portable equipment for our patients to derive the most effective means of treatment for their individualized needs. Devices such as the Continuous Passive Motion (CPM) device is a postoperative treatment method that is designed to aid recovery after joint surgery. Home is where the heart is. It`s more than a place filled of tapestries. It’s a place that holds memories of life, love and family. It is a place where new experiences transform as families welcome their loved ones home into the care of Ameriflex Home Health Care.
Helium Leak Detection. Ameriflex, Inc. ® operates on a simple philosophy based on Integrity, Service, and Quality. Our commitment to this philosophy is put into practice on a daily basis in the manufacture of our precision bellows, flanges, and other quality products. Our continuing commitment to quality is on display in every part we manufacture and the complete machining services we offer our customer. These lines of communication extend to our suppliers, who share the responsibility of our commitment to our customers. We rely on team unity at Ameriflex, Inc. ® , and make our customers and suppliers the cornerstones of our strategy and total quality commitment. 100% customer satisfaction is our ultimate goal.