Definition. The process whereby something or someone is pushed to the edge of a group and accorded lesser importance. This is predominantly a social phenomenon by which a minority or sub-group is excluded, and their needs or desires ignored. When someone keeps messing up in your company they may undergo marginalization and have their opinion matter less and less. 4 people found this helpful. Some products will undergo marginalization when they no longer have the need to fill that they used to have in the past.
Home Civil Society Marginalization and role of civil society. Marginalization has been defined as a complex process of relegating specific groups of people to the lower or outer edge of society. It effectively pushes these groups of people to the margin of society economically, politically, culturally and socially following the policy of exclusion
Social exclusion (or marginalization) is social disadvantage and relegation to the fringe of society. It is a term used widely in Europe, and was first used in France. It is used across disciplines including education, sociology, psychology, politics and economics. “Social exclusion is about the inability of our society to keep all groups and individuals within reach of what we expect as a society...[or] to realise their full potential..
This is a potential effect of discrimination because a person is made to stand out and made to be different from everyone else and they can therefore feel like they are all alone and marginalized from the rest of society or in the case of a health and social care sector, other service users. Marginalisation implies having a low social status and a consequent lack of access to education and … other resources. Social marginalization, as seen in the case of the Muslim community, is based on how their traditions, culture and dressing make us identify Muslims as different from us.
Noun. 1. marginalisation-the social process of becoming or being made marginal (especially as a group within the larger society); the marginalization of the underclass; the marginalization of literature. marginalization. social process-a process involved in the formation of groups of persons. 
The marginalization of black people as a whole went on unopposed throughout much of the twentieth century, fortunately things are improving. When someone keeps messing up in your company they may undergo marginalization and have their opinion matter less and less. 4 people found this helpful. Some products will undergo marginalization when they no longer have the need to fill that they used to have in the past.
• MARGINALISATION (noun). The noun MARGINALISATION has 1 sense: 1. the social process of becoming or being made marginal (especially as a group within the larger society). Familiarity information: MARGINALISATION used as a noun is very rare. 
(Redirected from Marginalization (probability)). In probability theory and statistics, the marginal distribution of a subset of a collection of random variables is the probability distribution of the variables contained in the subset. It gives the probabilities of various values of the variables in the subset without reference to the values of the other variables