foot-pound-a unit of work equal to a force of one pound moving through a distance of one foot. foot-ton - 2240 foot-pounds. foot-poundal-a unit of work equal to a force of one poundal moving through a distance of one foot. horsepower-hour-a unit of work equal to the work done by one horsepower in one hour. kilogram-meter-a unit of work equal to the work done by a one kilogram force operating through a distance of one meter. 1  Facebook. erg-a cgs unit of work or energy; the work done by a force of one dyne acting over a distance of one centimeter. electron volt, eV-a unit of energy equal to the work done by an electron accelerated through a potential difference of 1 volt.
Whenever a new quantity is introduced in physics, the standard metric units associated with that quantity are discussed. In the case of work (and also energy), the standard metric unit is the Joule (abbreviated J). One Joule is equivalent to one Newton of force causing a displacement of one meter. In other words, The Joule is the unit of work. Thus, Lesson 1 of this unit will focus on the definitions and meanings of such terms as work, mechanical energy, potential energy, kinetic energy, and power. When a force acts upon an object to cause a displacement of the object, it is said that work was done upon the object.
For moving objects, the quantity of work/time (power) is calculated. Thus, at any instant, the rate of the work done by a force (measured in joules/second, or watts) is the scalar product of the force (a vector), and the velocity vector of the point of application. This scalar product of force and velocity is classified as instantaneous power. If the work for an applied force is independent of the path, then the work done by the force is, by the gradient theorem, the potential function evaluated at the start and end of the trajectory of the point of application. Such a force is said to be conservative.
SI Unit. The SI unit for work is the same as the unit for energy, the joule. The joule is known as a derived unit, meaning it is formed from a mathematical operation on other base metric units. Specifically, the joule is defined as a force of one newton moving through a distance of one meter, or a Newton-meter (N-m). The units science uses to measure work are the same as the units used to measure the energy required to do the work. In the SI system of measurement, more commonly known as the metric system, there is a specific unit allocated to both work and energy.
Units of Work. Since work done W = F.S, its units are force times length. The SI unit of work is Newton-meter (Nm). Another name for it is Joule (J). 1 Nm = 1 J. The unit of work in cgs system is dyne cm or erg. Note that 1 J = 107 ergs
What is Power. Power is the work done in a unit of time. In other words, power is a measure of how quickly work can be done. The unit of power is the Watt = 1 Joule/ 1 second. One common unit of energy is the kilowatt-hour (kWh). If we are using one kW of power, a kWh of energy will last one hour. 
Scientists and engineers have a variety of units they use to describe the amount of work performed by a chemical reaction, a machine or an electric current. The units science uses to measure work are the same as the units used to measure the energy required to do the work. In the SI system of measurement, more commonly known as the metric system, there is a specific unit allocated to both work and energy.
The work done by a constant force of magnitude F on a point that moves a displacement (not distance) s in the direction of the force is the product, For example, if a force of 10 newtons (F = 10 N) acts along a point that travels 2 metres (s = 2 m), then it does the work W = (10 N)(2 m) = 20 N m = 20 J. This is approximately the work done lifting a 1 kg weight from ground to over a person's head against the force of gravity. If the work for an applied force is independent of the path, then the work done by the force is, by the gradient theorem, the potential function evaluated at the start and end of the trajectory of the point of application. Such a force is said to be conservative.