How to grow Spring onions for propagating: As with scallions there is not enough of a bulb to be able to save and store for planting the next season. True spring onions don't usually form bunches, so they aren't perennial. They are biennial, growing a flower and seeding the second year. So let a plant or two go to seed and use the seed for your next crop. To onion lovers and growers here's where there is a difference. A green onion or bunching onion has gained the hint of a bulb with maturity; a scallion has no bulb and a spring onion has a small bulb. Green Onions or Bunching Onions. Green onions have long, green, delicate stalks and small, very slender, white bulbs. The bulb of a green onion is slightly defined. Green onions come out of the ground early in their lives... in fact you can sow them very early spring and usually pick them late spring 7 weeks later.
Just wondering if anyone had tried growing spring onions in the winter (in a greenhouse/ polytunnel) from varieties not specifically labeled as hardy? I have three varieties-Laser, Eiffel and Red Beard-and I am loathed to buy any more. 
Onions do well in a sunny location/raised beds/or even a greenhouse. Planting Seeds: Plant seeds 1/4″ to 1/2″ deep, with 2 seeds every 4 inches apart. Growing Tips: Water throughout growing season, including winter. Onions can withstand a freeze if they are sufficiently hydrated. How to Harvest: Harvest when their necks feel soft and/or the tops have fallen over.
To successfully grow green onions in a greenhouse, water frequently and keep the soil moist. Green onions may grow successfully in a greenhouse, but raising sweet and dry onions inside may be a waste of space and energy. Green onions grow fast in a cool, coastal climate or a climate-controlled greenhouse. It takes 100 or more days to produce a sweet or dry onion, filling a greenhouse for months. 1. Check the temperature of the greenhouse. Green onions are a cool-season crop that grow best when the temperature ranges from 55 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Sweet and dry onions thrive at this temperature before the bulbs form.
Spring onions (Allium fistulosum) don’t have a bulb as they grow from seed. ‘Allium’ means garlic in Latin and ‘fistulosum’ means hollow stemmed. There are also red stemmed ones that are both ornamental and taste wonderful. Bottom line is you can use the leaves of all cultivars to flavour your cooking. Spring onions are incredibly generous and good value if you know what to do with them. Even if you buy them instead of growing your own, you can still get more for free. Here’s how: Cut your bought or home grown spring onions about 3cm (1in) above the root. Use the leaves in cooking and add the stem/roots to a glass with clean water to rehydrate roots. Change water daily & keep in a well lit position such as a windowsill or kitchen bench. Watch green leaves regrow
Harvest green onions when the plants are at least 6 inches tall and 1/2 inch to 1 inch in diameter. In a greenhouse, gardeners usually harvest green onions about 30 days after planting sets or 40 to 50 days from planting seed. 1. Check the temperature of the greenhouse. Green onions are a cool-season crop that grow best when the temperature ranges from 55 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Sweet and dry onions thrive at this temperature before the bulbs form.
SAVING SEEDS Seed-producing onions are biennial and it will take two growing seasons to get onion seed. This article explains the seed-to-bulb-to-seed method. Purchase onion seed and plant as you normally would in the spring. When purchasing seed, only buy open-pollinated or heirloom seeds. Tightly spaced green onions fit well in ornamental plantings. Seeds or Seedlings 4 to 5 days, 45F to 95F 1 year Well Drained, High Fertility Full Sun 1/2 apart 4 apart 65 to 75 Growing Guide GROWING NOTES Well-drained, rich soil, high in organic matter, neutral pH.