Bisquick is basically a dry mix for making biscuits, waffles, pancakes etc. It's the dry ingredients (flour, leavening, salt) and fat (shortening oil or butter) so that to make biscuits you simply add milk to the mix, instead of making the coarse crumbs where you cut the butter into the flour. Bisquick is a trade name of a specific product; there are other mixes on the market just like it. You can also find several cookbooks and recipes on the web calling for it.
1. Substitute the mix for 1 cup of Bisquick in recipes. Using your substitute is easy. Simply use it in place of one cup of normal Bisquick mix. Add the extra ingredients called for in the recipe, including additional oil or fat. Mix the dry ingredients. In a large bowl, sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together. Use a whisk or a large spoon to get a nice even mixture. 1  All-purpose flour works best here. 2  However, alternatives are possible. 3  For example, to make gluten-free pancakes, substitute buckwheat or almond flour.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Bisquick is base mix that can be used for an assortment of recipes from making biscuits to waffles, pancakes, casserole toppings. Below is a recipe for what is known as a MASTER MIX. It can be used in any recipe that calls for Bisquick. Bisquick is quick because it's already premixed for you and you don't have to go thru the time of mixing the individual ingredients.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Bisquick is a pre-mixed baking product made by General Mills consisting of flour, sugar, vegetable shortening, salt, powdered milk and leavening soda. 
Bisquick is a pre-mixed baking mix sold by General Mills under its Betty Crocker brand, consisting of flour, shortening, salt, and baking powder (a leavening agent). Substitution [edit]. One cup of Bisquick can be substituted by a mixture of one cup of flour, 1½ teaspoons of baking powder, ½ teaspoon of salt, and 2 1/2 tablespoons of oil or melted butter (or by cutting in 2 1/2 tbsp Crisco or lard).
Cook. Use as an exact substitute for Original Bisquick Baking Mix in recipes. Original Bisquick does not contain powdered milk. Neither does this copycat recipe. This recipe also uses canola oil as a healthy substitute for solid shortening
Homemade Bisquick comes together in less than 5 minutes and can be used in any recipe that calls for Bisquick or all-purpose baking mix. It’s perfect for things like pancakes and diner-style muffins. And that shortcut is Homemade Bisquick. Homemade Bisquick comes together in a food processor in less than 5 minutes and requires 4 ingredients that I’m betting you already have in your pantry. And it keeps within the refrigerator for up to 3 months!
1. Mix the dry ingredients. In a large bowl, sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together. Use a whisk or a large spoon to get a nice even mixture. 1  All-purpose flour works best here. 2  However, alternatives are possible. 3  For example, to make gluten-free pancakes, substitute buckwheat or almond flour.