The Cretaceous Period (146-65 million years ago). In the early Cretaceous, many of the southern continents were still joined together as part of the southern landmass called Gondwana. Northern continents formed the great landmass Laurasia. 1 Australia was joined to Antarctica, New Zealand and South America, forming the last remnant of the great southern landmass called Gondwana. 2  About 80 million years ago New Zealand drifted away from the rest of Gondwana. 3  The Australian part of Gondwana was located close to the South Pole.
View full size image. The Cretaceous Period was the last and longest segment of the Mesozoic Era. It lasted approximately 79 million years, from the minor extinction event that closed the Jurassic Period about 145.5 million years ago to the Cretaceous-Paleogene (K-Pg) extinction event dated at 65.5 million years ago. In the early Cretaceous, the continents were in very different positions than they are today
Historical Geology of the Period. At the beginning of the Lower Cretaceous in North America, the Mexican Sea of the late Jurassic period spread over Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and parts of Arizona, Kansas, and Colorado. 
Continental Drift - 65 Million Years Ago. By 65 million years ago, the end of the Cretaceous period and the beginning of the Cenozoic, the continents were aleady beginning to take on a more recognizable form. 
Australia: The Land Where Time Began. A biography of the Australian continent. Cretaceous Australia - 144-65.4 million years go. The Cretaceous has been called a time of change, because the changes that took place during this period on a global scale were enormous. Australia was still attached to Antarctica and ancestral New Zealand was still attached to Marie Byrd Land in Antarctica
The Mid-Cretaceous period is one period in the geologic past that stands out as distinctly warmer than today, particularly at high latitudes. During the mid-Cretaceous Period, 120-90 million years ago, fossil remains of plants and animals believed to inhabit warm environments, were found at much higher latitudes. 
Position. 1  Australia was joined to Antarctica, New Zealand and South America, forming the last remnant of the great southern landmass called Gondwana. 2  About 80 million years ago New Zealand drifted away from the rest of Gondwana. 1 Australia was joined to Antarctica, New Zealand and South America, forming the last remnant of the great southern landmass called Gondwana. 2  About 80 million years ago New Zealand drifted away from the rest of Gondwana. 3  The Australian part of Gondwana was located close to the South Pole.
The Cretaceous period began at the end of the Jurassic period approximately 144 million years ago and extended longer than any period (79 ma) to approximately 65 million years ago. The word Cretaceous comes from the word for chalk and the geological remains do indeed contain heightened chalk deposits. Tectonics. At the beginning of the Cretaceous period the tectonic plates had not separated completely. However, by the end of the period Laurasia had separated into North America and Eurasia and Gondwana had separated into South America, Africa, Antarctica, and Africa.
Shifting Continents and Greenhouse Climates. By the beginning of the Cretaceous, the supercontinent of Pangea had broken up into two smaller continents. The northern one, Laurasia, included what are today the continents of Europe, Asia, and North America. An ancient supercontinent in the Northern Hemisphere made up of the modern continents North America, Europe, and Asia. Laurasia formed as the supercontinent Pangea broke up during the Mesozoic Era.
The other, Gondwana, was formed from the southern landmasses of present-day Africa, South America, Australia, India, Antarctica, and Madagascar. By the earliest Late Cretaceous (100 million years ago), rising sea level had caused the Western Interior Seaway to flood the central United States. An ancient supercontinent in the Northern Hemisphere made up of the modern continents North America, Europe, and Asia. Laurasia formed as the supercontinent Pangea broke up during the Mesozoic Era.