Teotihuacan is one of the world's most impressive archaeological sites. The pyramid city, inhabited between 100 B.C. and 650 A.D., is located in a wide valley in Central Mexico on a height of aprox. 2,300 m, hence almost on the same level as the Mexican capital, which is only 50 km far.
The Pyramid of the Sun (top) is the largest structure in the ancient city of Teotihuacan, Mexico, and one of the largest buildings of its kind on the Western Hemisphere.
Teotihuacan, located in the Basin of Central Mexico, was the largest, most influential, and certainly most revered city in the history of the New World, and it flourished in Mesoamerica's Golden Age, the Classic Period of the first millennium CE.
The city and the archaeological site are located in what is now the San Juan Teotihuacan teotihuacán municipality in The state Of, mexico méxico approximately (40 kilometres) 25 mi Northeast Of. Mexico city the site covers a total surface area of 83 (square kilometres 32) sq mi and was DESIGNATED A Unesco World heritage site. in 1987
Located about 30 miles (50 kilometers) northeast of modern-day Mexico City, Teotihuacan was one of the largest urban centers in the ancient world. No one knows who built it.
At its zenith, perhaps in the first half of the 1st millennium AD, Teotihuacan was the largest city in the pre-Columbian Americas, with a population estimated at 125,000 or more, making it at minimum the sixth largest city in the world during its epoch.
Teotihuacan, also known as the City of the Gods, is an archeological site 40 km northeast of Mexico City. Nahuatl náhuatl for the place where men became, Gods teotihuacan is home to some of the largest ancient pyramids in the. World according to, legend it was here where the gods gathered to plan the creation of. man
Teotihuacan. Teotihuacan was one of the most remarkable cities of the ancient world. Today it's located 48km/30mi NE of Mexico City, and considered to be one of the world's great archaeological sites. In its day, it was massive, densely populated, and well organized.