1 Kidney injury. 2  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 3  Medications. 4  The anti-cancer drug cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and penicillin can cause urinary bleeding. 1 So can Alport syndrome, which affects the filtering membranes in the glomeruli of the kidneys. 2  Kidney injury. 3  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 4
In hematuria, your kidneys — or other parts of your urinary tract — allow blood cells to leak into urine. A number of problems can cause this leakage, including: Urinary tract infections. Urinary tract infections often occur when bacteria enter your body through the urethra and begin to multiply in your bladder. 1 So can Alport syndrome, which affects the filtering membranes in the glomeruli of the kidneys. 2  Kidney injury. 3  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 4  Medications.
The problem is not blood in the urine itself. Rather blood in the urine is a sign of something. Something that is not right somewhere within the urogenital tract. For men and women. It could be something as simple as a low-grade infection. It might be a bladder or kidney stone, bobbling around causing irritation of the lining and therefore blood. By Sheldon Marks, MD. As a urologist, I would have thought that after all these years the message would have gotten out – blood in the urine (hematuria) is not normal and must be evaluated 100% of the time.
Hematospermia (he-muh-toh-spur-me-uh) is when you have blood in your semen. It usually happens in men younger than 40 years, but men of any age can have it. The causes in men younger than 40 years usually are not serious. 
I had blood in my urine 2 years ago with no pain. One pee with bright red blood, the second one after that was darker colored and then after that there was no blood for the next year. went to doc, they said it was most likely a UTI-drink cranberry juice, they took a urine sample and no blood detected. However, there are other things that can cause blood in the urine. I am amazed that you were not sent directly to a urologist two years ago. A number of years ago my father saw a slight pink tinge in his urine..just once.
However if there’s blood in the urine and no evidence of infection, then a trip to the urologist is absolutely necessary. Nonnegotiable. For some reason, most women have no problem going to see a doctor for evaluation of something that might not be right. Men, on the other hand, are a totally different animal. By Sheldon Marks, MD. As a urologist, I would have thought that after all these years the message would have gotten out – blood in the urine (hematuria) is not normal and must be evaluated 100% of the time.
Introduction. Finding blood in your urine can be very frightening and must be investigated by a doctor, but it's not usually a sign of anything life-threatening. If you notice bright red blood in your urine, or if your urine has turned red or brown because it has blood in it, see your GP. The blood will have come from somewhere within the urinary tract – the kidneys, bladder or the tubes that urine passes through. It is often the result of a urinary tract infection (UTI) , such as cystitis.