Best Answer: Hello, I've been synthroid or over 5 years now for hypothyroidism. I felt better pretty quickly when i first started taking it. (like in 3 weeks.) But had to take some time to find the right level of the medicine. We had to re-evaluate after I was on it for 3-6 months and see how much i really needed. We increased my level after the first re-check and then i felt like i was back to normal.....
Antithyroid medications usually alleviate your hyperthyroid symptoms in six to 12 weeks. While there is no standard for how long you will take the medication, you will most likely continue with it for 12 to 18 months. That time period, combined with a gradual, controlled decrease in your dosage, lessens your chance of developing hyperthyroidism again.
How Well It Works. People with hypothyroidism who take thyroid hormone medicine usually notice: 1  Improved energy level. 2  Gradual weight loss (in people with severe hypothyroidism at the time of diagnosis). 3  Improved mood and mental function (thinking, memory). 4  Improved pumping action of the heart and improved digestive tract function. Some of these medicines include: 1  Calcium. 2  Take calcium supplements at least 4 hours before or after taking thyroid hormone medicine. 3  Iron supplements. 4  Birth control pills or other hormones. 5  Cholestyramine. 6  Sucralfate and some antacids containing aluminum hydroxide.
How Well It Works. Antithyroid medicines do not always start working right away. Symptoms usually get better or go away 1 to 8 weeks after you start taking the medicine. It may take as long as 6 months for your thyroid hormone levels to become normal. Antithyroid medicines work best if you have mild hyperthyroidism, if this is the first time you are being treated for Graves' disease, if you are younger than 50, or if your thyroid gland is only swollen a little bit (small goiter).
1 You will have to take thyroid hormone replacement for the remainder of your life. 2  It is a small pill that you take once a day (either first thing in the morning or before bedtime) on an empty stomach. 1 Yes. 2  You will have to take thyroid hormone replacement for the remainder of your life. 3  It is a small pill that you take once a day (either first thing in the morning or before bedtime) on an empty stomach.
If then your TSH is found to be high (and thus your thyroid hormone low), then you would warrant referral to an endocrinologist who can work-up the cause of hypothyroidism (if there). Thyroid replacement medication should begin working towards reducing your symptoms within a few weeks. Often it takes some time to find the right dose for you. Good luck. This answer is for general informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor or (in the United States) 911 immediately.
Senior Member. It takes 6 weeks to have its full effect. You're doctor should have instructed you to come back for blood work at 6 weeks, then your dose can be adjusted if need be. Be patient, adjusting thyroid meds is a delicate process-and it can take 6 months to a year to get it right. I started on Armour about year ago-I felt better after a couple months-but it did nothing for my weight. 09-22-2013, 01:28 PM #3
People with hypothyroidism have lower-than-normal or no thyroid function and do not make enough thyroid hormone for the body to function properly. Taking thyroid hormone medicine replaces missing hormones. Some of these medicines include: 1  Calcium. 2  Take calcium supplements at least 4 hours before or after taking thyroid hormone medicine. 3  Iron supplements. 4  Birth control pills or other hormones. 5  Cholestyramine. 6  Sucralfate and some antacids containing aluminum hydroxide.
I was wondering how long it takes before the thyroid medicine starts working. I was diagnosed with Hashi's last week (TSH 65 - under 3 normal, FT4 and T3 under 1, Antibody 600 - normal under 40), and started taking 125 mcg of Synthroid Monday. I know 4 days is probably too early to start working, but I swear I feel worse.