It works by changing the actions of chemicals in your brain. Prochlorperazine is used to treat psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. It is also used to treat anxiety, and to control severe nausea and vomiting. Prochlorperazine may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Compazine (prochlorperazine) is a phenothiazine anti-psychotic used to treat psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. It is also used to treat anxiety, and to control severe nausea and vomiting. The brand name Compazine is discontinued in the U.S. Generic versions may still be available. Our Compazine (prochlorperazine) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
However, Compazine (prochlorperazine) is not the first drug to be used in therapy for most patients with non-psychotic anxiety, because certain risks associated with its use are not shared by common alternative treatments (e.g., benzodiazepines). Compazine (prochlorperazine) may be administered either undiluted or diluted in isotonic solution, but a single dose of the drug should not exceed 10 mg. The rate of administration should not exceed 5 mg per minute. When administered I.V., do not use bolus injection.
1 Review. Prochlorperazine is a prescription drug classified as an anti-nausea and anti-vomiting medication, as well as an antipsychotic agent. It's also marketed under the brand names Compro and Procomp, and is used for controlling severe nausea and vomiting. Prochlorperazine may also be used to treat schizophrenia. It's not a cure for the condition, but may help manage the symptoms. It works by controlling abnormal excitement in the brain.
It is not entirely known exactly how Compazine works. However, it is known that the drug blocks or lessens the effects of dopamine, a chemical in the brain. Dopamine may be elevated in people with schizophrenia or anxiety. Part of a group of drugs called phenothiazines, Compazine ® (prochlorperazine maleate) is a prescription medicine that has been licensed to treat the following conditions: 1  Severe nausea and vomiting. 2  Schizophrenia. 3  Anxiety (for short-term use only)
Compazine is a prescription medicine that is used for treating anxiety, schizophrenia, and severe nausea or vomiting. Part of a group of drugs called phenothiazines, Compazine ® (prochlorperazine maleate) is a prescription medicine that has been licensed to treat the following conditions: 1  Severe nausea and vomiting. 2  Schizophrenia. 3  Anxiety (for short-term use only)
Prochlorperazine (Compazine, Stemzine, Buccastem, Stemetil, Phenotil) is a dopamine (D2) receptor antagonist that belongs to the phenothiazine class of antipsychotic agents that are used for the antiemetic treatment of nausea and vertigo. Prochlorperazine can also cause a life-threatening condition called neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Some symptoms of NMS include: A high fever, stiff muscles, confusion, irregular pulse or blood pressure, a fast heart rate (tachycardia), sweating, irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias).
Compazine oral is used to treat the following: Schizophrenia, Anxiety without Psychosis, Nausea and Vomiting, Severe Nausea and Vomiting that has Lasted a Long Time, Nausea and Vomiting caused by Cancer Drugs. 