You can withdraw the entire $3,000 from the second Roth IRA without paying tax, even if you don’t meet the tests to withdraw earnings tax-free. Your other Roth IRA will now be treated as if it has $1,000 of contributions and $1,500 of earnings. Rules for tax-free distributions from Roth IRAs. In most cases the best strategy is to leave as much money in your IRA as you can, and for as long as you can. But if you need early access to that money, you’re generally in better shape with a Roth IRA than with a traditional IRA.
Under current tax law, as long as the Roth IRA participant is at least 59 ½ years old and his plan has been established for at least five years, all withdrawals—including income earned on contributions—can be withdrawn income tax free. (Learn more about Roth IRA taxes .). 
Whether or not your withdrawal from a Roth IRA is taxes depends on a few factors. First, the funds must have been in the Roth IRA for at least five years before they can be withdrawn. Additional factors include: 1  When the withdrawal was made. Withdrawals made after age 59 and 1/2 are normal retirement withdrawals and are not taxed. You paid tax on that income when you first contributed to the Roth IRA. If the withdrawal is made before age 59 and 1/2 and is only up to the amount that has been contributed to the Roth IRA then no income tax is charged. Withdrawals of contributions are tax-fre
Roth IRA contributions are not taxed at the time you contribute the funds to your Roth IRA. However, your contributions come from post-tax income. You pay taxes on your income today, but not in the future. Withdrawals made after age 59 and 1/2 are normal retirement withdrawals and are not taxed. You paid tax on that income when you first contributed to the Roth IRA. If the withdrawal is made before age 59 and 1/2 and is only up to the amount that has been contributed to the Roth IRA then no income tax is charged. Withdrawals of contributions are tax-fre
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. The same combined contribution limit applies to all of your Roth and traditional IRAs.
The tax treatment of a Roth IRA distributions depends on whether the distribution is qualified. Qualified distributions from Roth IRAs are tax and penalty free, but nonqualified distributions may be subjected to tax and an early distribution penalty. Qualified Distribution Defined. 
A Roth IRA can be an individual retirement account containing investments in securities, usually common stocks and bonds, often through mutual funds (although other investments, including derivatives, notes, certificates of deposit, and real estate are possible). 1 Direct contributions to a Roth IRA (principal) may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free at any time. 2  Earnings may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free after 5 years if the condition of age 59½ (or other qualifying condition) is also met.
+ Withdrawals from a Roth IRA can be entirely free of federal taxes. + Roth IRAs do not have mandatory minimum distributions. + Roth IRAs can be bequeathed to heirs and thus can escape both income taxes and estate taxes. - Early withdrawals from a Roth IRA can be subject to taxes and penalties. A Roth IRA is a type of individual retirement savings account -- similar to traditional IRAs and 401(k) plans. Like other retirement savings plans, investment income inside the Roth IRA is not taxed as the income is earned, and there are penalties for taking money out early from the plan.
In contrast to a traditional IRA, contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. Withdrawals are generally tax-free, but not always and not without certain stipulations (i.e., tax-free for principal withdrawals and the owner's age must be at least 59½ for tax-free withdrawals on the growth portion above principal). 1 Direct contributions to a Roth IRA (principal) may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free at any time. 2  Earnings may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free after 5 years if the condition of age 59½ (or other qualifying condition) is also met.