Modern rabies vaccines are administered for pre-exposure and post-exposure prophylaxis and the vaccination schedule is determined accordingly.Pre-exposure prophylaxis Intramuscular administration: One dose of vaccine is administered intramuscularly on each of days 0, 7 and 21 or 28. The immune response induced by ID rabies vaccination is the same as with the IM regimens. Rabies antigen is inoculated into the dermis of the skin which helps trigger a high immune response. It has been shown that the antigen presenting cells in the skin are more effective than the ones in muscle.
Rabies immunoglobulin can be injected up to 7 days after first vaccine dose administration. Stop treatment if animal remains healthy throughout an observation period of 10 days or is proven to be negative for rabies by a reliable laboratory using appropriate diagnostic techniques. The immune response induced by ID rabies vaccination is the same as with the IM regimens. Rabies antigen is inoculated into the dermis of the skin which helps trigger a high immune response. It has been shown that the antigen presenting cells in the skin are more effective than the ones in muscle.
Rabies postexposure vaccinations consists of a dose of human rabies immune globulin and four doses of rabies vaccine given on the day of the exposure, and then again on days 3, 7, and 14. The vaccine is given in a muscle, usually in the upper arm. This set of vaccinations is highly effective at preventing rabies if given as soon as possible following an exposure. If a person has previously received postexposure vaccinations or received preexposure vaccinations, only two doses of vaccine (on the day of exposure and then 3 days later) are needed. Human rabies immune globulin is not required. Your doctor and local health department will be able to guide you through the process
Immunoglobulin should be given in a single dose of 20 IU per kg of body weight for human anti-rabies immunoglobulin, and 40 IU per kg of body weight for heterologous (equine) immunoglobulin; the first dose of vaccine should be inoculated at the same time as the immunoglobulin, but in a different part of the body. 
A rabies vaccine is a vaccine used to prevent rabies. There are a number of available vaccines that are both safe and effective. They can be used to prevent rabies before and for a period of time after exposure to the virus such as by a dog or bat bite. The immunity that develops is long lasting after three doses. After exposure vaccination is typically used along with rabies immunoglobulin. It is recommended that those who are at high risk of exposure be vaccinated before potential exposure. Vaccines are effective in humans and other animals. Immunizing dogs is very effective in preventing human disease. They may be safely used in all age groups. About 35 to 45 percent of people develop a brief period of redness and pain at the injection site
Rabies vaccine. A 1.0 mL dose of rabies vaccine is given IM in the deltoid area of adults or the anterolateral thigh of young children on days 0, 3, 7, and 14 of the rabies PEP regimen (Table 3). The first vaccination is given concurrently with the HRIG at a site distant from the HRIG. Human rabies immune globulin (HRIG) is infiltrated around the site of the bite(s), and provides rapid passive immune protection with a half life of approximately 21 days. It is administered only once, on the first day of the PEP regimen (designated day 0).
For persons previously unvaccinated with rabies vaccine, the reduced regimen of 4 1-mL doses of HDCV or PCECV should be administered intramuscularly. The first dose of the 4-dose course should be administered as soon as possible after exposure (day 0). Additional doses then should be administered on days 3, 7, and 14 after the first vaccination. ACIP recommendations for the use of RIG remain unchanged. 1 Evidence for a 4-dose vaccine schedule for human rabies post-exposure prophylaxis in previously non-vaccinated individuals. 2  Vaccine 2009;27:7141--8. 3  Charlton KM, Nadin-Davis S, Casey GA, Wandeler AI. 4  The long incubation period in rabies: delayed progression of infection in muscle at the site of exposure