Species: Eleodes obscurus. Description: Darkling beetles are about 18mm to 30mm (0.75 to 1,5in) long and an elongate oval in shape, that is black in color. The head contains notched eyes, thread-like antennae, and chewing mouth parts. The front wings are smooth and shiny, and the legs are long. Geographic range: There are 100 species in the Western United States, and these Beetles are one of the most commonly seen insects in the Jornada Basin. Habitat: The darkling beetle is found in a variety of desert habitat s such as shrub lands, grasslands, and arroyos.
Darkling beetle is the common name of the large family of beetles, Tenebrionidae. The number of species in the Tenebrionidae is estimated at more than 20,000 and the family is cosmopolitan. In English, darkling is a more or less literal translation of tenebrio, meaning dweller in dark. Many species do inhabit dark places, but there are exceptions; for example, many species of Tenebrionidae in genera such as Stenocara and Onymacris are active by day and inactive at night.
Its head is visible when viewed from above. As larva, the darkling beetle is called the mealworm. The mealworms are about an inch in length and have a tough yellowish brown exoskeleton and are cylindrical. The mealworm has six small jointed legs, brown bands around their bodies and two antennae. After changing colors from brown to black it searches for a mate and only lives for a few months. The life cycle lasts three to five months. Predators of mealworms and darkling beetles are birds, rodents, lizards, predatory beetles and spiders.
1 Palembus dermestoides or Ulomoides dermestoides, known as peanut beetle, cancer beetle, or asthma beetle, is eaten in Argentina where it is thought to be a treatment for cancer, asthma, and other illnesses. In English, darkling is a more or less literal translation of tenebrio, meaning dweller in dark. Many species do inhabit dark places, but there are exceptions; for example, many species of Tenebrionidae in genera such as Stenocara and Onymacris are active by day and inactive at night.
Diet and Habitat. Perhaps the most fascinating characteristic of the darkling beetle is its ability to create water internally. The beetles don't need an external water source to survive. Instead their bodies fabricate it from other molecules. Darkling beetles are scavengers and decomposers. You may not recognize darkling beetles by name, but there's a good chance you've encountered these insects before. Their larvae are called mealworms and are often used as bait by fishermen. These beetles are common throughout North America and fill several roles in ecosystems across the continent.
One in four named insects is a beetle. Beetles have biting and chewing mouth parts and two pairs of wings, although many common shrub-steppe beetles are wingless. The first pair of wings are leathery or hard and are not used in flight. Beetles have four stages of development: egg, larvae, pupa, and adult. About 20 species of darkling beetles live in the Mid-Columbia Basin. The most common species, Eleodes hispilabris, is about 3.5 centimeters long and black in color with ridges down its back.
A mealworm is really a darkling beetle in its larval stage.There are four stages in a darkling beetle's life cycle:1. egg2. larva (mealworm)3. pupa4. adult (beetle) Mealworm & Darkling Beetle Scavenger Hunt Fact Card #2 The egg of a mealworm or darkling beetle is very tiny-usually less than one millimeter long. It is difficult to see them without a microscope. Mealworm & Darkling Beetle Scavenger Hunt Activity Materials: Mealworms questions worksheet (pages 2-3)16 mealworm fact cards (pages 4-8)Scissors and scotch tape Preparation: Print the insect fact cards and cut them apart.Make copies of the mealworm questions worksheet (2-sided).