Vasculitis. Vasculitis means inflammation of the blood vessels, arteries, veins or capillaries. When such inflammation occurs, it causes changes in the walls of blood vessels, such as weakening and narrowing that can progress to the point of blood vessel blockage. A result of vasculitis is that the tissues and organs supplied by affected blood vessels do not get enough blood. Vasculitis can affect any of the body’s blood vessels. These include arteries, veins, and capillaries. Arteries carry blood from your heart to your body’s organs. Veins carry blood from your organs and limbs back to your heart. Capillaries connect the small arteries and veins.
Vasculitis (vas-kyu-LI-tis) is a condition that involves inflammation in the blood vessels. The condition occurs if your immune system attacks your blood vessels by mistake. This may happen as the result of an infection, a medicine, or another disease or condition. Vasculitis can affect any of the body's blood vessels. These include arteries, veins, and capillaries. Arteries carry blood from your heart to your body's organs. Veins carry blood from your organs and limbs back to your heart. Capillaries connect the small arteries and veins.
The treatment of the various forms of vasculitis is based on the severity of the illness and the organs involved. Treatments are generally directed toward stopping the inflammation and suppressing the immune system. Typically, cortisone-related medications, such as prednisone, are used. Additionally, other immune suppression drugs, such as cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and others, are considered. Additionally, affected organs (such as the heart or lungs) may require specific medical treatment when the disease is active.
Vasculitis is a general term that refers to inflammation of blood vessels. When blood vessels become inflamed, they may become weakened, stretch, and either increase in size or become narrow -- even to the point of closing entirely. Vasculitis can affect people of all ages, but there are types of vasculitis that occur in certain age groups more often than others. Some of the many forms of vasculitis may be restricted to particular organs. Examples include vasculitis that affects only the skin, eye, brain, or certain internal organs. There are also types of vasculitis that may affect many organ systems at the same time. Some of these generalized forms may be quite mild and may not require treatment. Others may be severe, affecting critical organs
Vasculitis, which may also be referred to as angiitis and arteritis refers to a large group of diseases involving inflammation of the blood vessels, specifically the walls of the blood vessels-including arteries, veins and capillaries (tiny veins). The plural of vasculitis is vasculitides. 
Vasculitis is an autoimmune disease in which the body mistakenly sees blood vessels as a foreign invader and attacks them, causing inflammation and leading to a narrowing of the vessels. Treatment for vasculitis depends on the type of vasculitis, which organs are affected and the severity of the condition. The main goal of treating vasculitis is to reduce inflammation in the affected blood vessels. People who have severe vasculitis are treated with prescription medicine
Vasculitis is the term used for a group of diseases characterized by the inflammation of and damage to the blood vessels or the blood vessel walls. Vasculitis (plural vasculitides) can be a primary disease or a secondary condition related to another underlying disease. 
Vasculitis Treatment. Treatment for vasculitis depends on the type of vasculitis, which organs are affected and the severity of the condition. The main goal of treating vasculitis is to reduce inflammation in the affected blood vessels. People who have severe vasculitis are treated with prescription medicines