Sykes Enterprises Salary. Sykes Enterprises average salary is $65,347, median salary is $56,821 with a salary range from $29,266 to $180,180. Sykes Enterprises salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. 
The average SYKES Enterprises, Incorporated salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Call Center Sales Agent to $172,000 per year for Strategy Manager. Average SYKES Enterprises, Incorporated hourly pay ranges from approximately $8.00 per hour for Customer Representative to $18.50 per hour for Payroll Specialist.
Sykes workers earn an average of $9.70 per hour normally and $13.50 during overtime hours. This overview is based on answers to PayScale's salary questionnaire. Years of Experience. Broken down by tenure, the largest share of Sykes employees (70 percent) have one to four years of experience and earn around $9.24 per hour on average. Customer Service Representatives represent the higher end of the earnings spectrum — in fact, median pay for this job is the highest at $9.17 per hour
As of May 2013, the food-preparation and service industry paid an average hourly wage of $9.08. In a separate BLS category, we find over half a million fast-food cooks who earn, on average, $9.07 an hour. But that varies by industry and state. Cooks in gasoline stations earn, on average, $8.68 per hour, while cooks in grocery stores get $10.02. The San Francisco area has the highest average wages for fast-food workers in the country, but at $12.17 per hour, that falls well short of the $15 demanded by the protesting McDonald’s employees.
Log in with Facebook. Broken down by tenure, the largest share of Sykes employees (70 percent) have one to four years of experience and earn around $9.24 per hour on average. Customer Service Representatives represent the higher end of the earnings spectrum — in fact, median pay for this job is the highest at $9.17 per hour. Years of Experience. Broken down by tenure, the largest share of Sykes employees (70 percent) have one to four years of experience and earn around $9.24 per hour on average.
However, independent contractors do not have to receive minimum wage. Both independent contracting and employment call centers may pay an hourly rate, but it is more common in employment positions. Basic pay rates (not including incentives) range from the U.S. minimum wage of $7.25 to as much $12 an hour. Bilingual agents may be paid at the upper end of the scale because there is often a pay differential of $1 or more per hour for bilingual call center jobs. Per-call pay rates might be anywhere from $.10 to $.25 per minute, but there is no way to know what this might work out to as an hourly rate. For those paid per call, obviously moving quickly through calls means more money.
Pay varies but starts around $9/hour. Agents are paid an hourly rate for both time on and off the phone. (Not all call centers pay hourly, read more about call center pay structures .) Training is paid. For more information about what it's like to work here read these reviews of Alpine Access. The work from home division now brands itself as SYKES Home powered by Alpine Access .. Types of Work at Home Opportunities: Most of the work-at-home jobs available at SYKES Home/Alpine Access are for call center agents.
Call Center Hourly Rates. Both independent contracting and employment call centers may pay an hourly rate, but it is more common in employment positions. Basic pay rates (not including incentives) range from the U.S. minimum wage of $7.25 to as much $12 an hour. Bilingual agents may be paid at the upper end of the scale because there is often a pay differential of $1 or more per hour for bilingual call center jobs. Per-call pay rates might be anywhere from $.10 to $.25 per minute, but there is no way to know what this might work out to as an hourly rate. For those paid per call, obviously moving quickly through calls means more money.