Generalization refers to a process within operant and classical conditioning, where a conditioned response (CR) starts occurring in response to the presentation of other, similar stimuli, not just the conditioned stimulus (CS). 
Generalization is a phenomenon in psychology where conditioned subjects respond to stimuli similar to those they were conditioned to respond to. For example, if a dog is trained to salivate at the sight of a circle, the dog will salivate at the sight of an ellipse as well.onfidence votes 17. 
In technical terms, stimulus generalization occurs when a previously-unassociated or new stimulus that has similar characteristics to the previously-associated stimulus elicits a response that is the same or as similar to the previously-associated response. Stimulus Generalization and Operant Conditioning. Potty training is a good example of stimulus generalization in operant conditioning. When a child is learning to use the toilet, rewards are often used to increase the desired behaviors.
Stimulus Generalization is when an organism responds to a new stimulus in the same way as a previously encountered stimulus, based on similarity of the stimuli and the organism s history of reinforcement with the previous stimulus. 
Medical Definition of GENERALIZATION. 1. : the action or process of generalizing. 2. : the act or process whereby a learned response is made to a stimulus similar to but not identical with the conditioned stimulus. Definition of GENERALIZATION for Kids. 1. : the act of forming conclusions from a small amount of information. 2. : a general statement: a conclusion based on only a small number of items or instances.
1. Deriving a concept or theory from a number of specific cases, applying it widely. 2. Judgement derived and applied this way. 3. Conditioning process where a response is evoked by the same stimuli. 
Full Definition of GENERALIZATION. 1. : the act or process of generalizing. 2. : a general statement, law, principle, or proposition. 3. : the act or process whereby a learned response is made to a stimulus similar to but not identical with the conditioned stimulus. See generalization defined for English-language learners. See generalization defined for kids. Definition of GENERALIZATION for Kids. 1. : the act of forming conclusions from a small amount of information. 2. : a general statement: a conclusion based on only a small number of items or instances.
generalization. n. 1. a principle, theory, etc, with general application. 2. the act or an instance of generalizing. 3. (Psychology) psychol the evoking of a response learned to one stimulus by a different but similar stimulus. 1. the act or process of generalizing. 2. a general statement, idea, or principle. 3. a. a proposition asserting something to be true of all members of a class or of an indefinite part of that class.
generalization - (psychology) transfer of a response learned to one stimulus to a similar stimulus. stimulus generalisation, stimulus generalization, generalisation. carry-over, transfer of training, transfer-application of a skill learned in one situation to a different but similar situation. 1. the act or process of generalizing. 2. a general statement, idea, or principle. 3. a. a proposition asserting something to be true of all members of a class or of an indefinite part of that class.
Learned generalization or secondary generalization is an aspect of learning theory. In learning studies it can be shown that subjects, both animal and human will respond in the same way to different stimuli if they have similar properties established by a process of conditioning. 