Photo Source. Bergamot oil (Citrus bergamia) is one of my very favorite essential oils. The oil is extracted from the rind or peel of the fruit, leaving an aroma is citrusy but sweet, and has a depth to it that I really love. 
Other Benefits: Bergamot essential oil is also a tonic, meaning that it tones up the respiratory, circulatory, digestive, excretory, and nervous system, as well as skin and muscles. It is also anticongestive and is used in vaporizers to relieve congestion and respiratory problems, particularly during coughs and colds. Cicatrisant: This property of bergamot oil is the reason behind its extensive use in cosmetics and skin care products such as beauty soaps, creams, and lotions. Cicatrisant means a property or an agent which helps scars and other marks on the skin to disappear.
Citrus bergamia, the bergamot orange (pronounced, standard English: /ˈbɜːɡəˌmɒt/ or GenAm : /ˈbɝɡəˌmɑt/) is a fragrant fruit the size of an orange, with a yellow color similar to a lemon. Citrus bergamot is commercially grown in southern Calabria (province of Reggio), southern Italy, where more than 80% are produced. It is also grown in southern France and in Cote côte'D ivoire for the essential oil and In antalya in Southern turkey for its. Marmalade the fruit is not generally grown for juice. consumption
Bergamot is a plant that produces a type of citrus fruit. Oil taken from the peel of the fruit is used to make medicine. Some people treat a skin condition called psoriasis by applying bergamot oil directly to the skin and then shining long-wave ultraviolet (UV) light on the affected area. Bergamot oil is also applied to the skin (used topically) for a tumor caused by a fungal infection (mycosis fungoides) and for pigment loss (vitiligo). It is also used as an insecticide to protect the body against lice and other parasites.
Bergamot (Citrus Bergamia) is a citrus fruit that is native to southern Italy, tropical parts of Asia and the Ivory Coast. This citrus fruit probably gets its name from the town of Bergamo in Lombardy, Italy, where it was commercially grown for the first time. Bergamot is rarely consumed as a fruit or fruit juice. 
Bergamot essential oil is a cold-pressed essential oil produced by cells inside the rind of a bergamot orange fruit. It is a common top note in perfumes. Bergamot essential oil is a major component of the original Eau de Cologne composed by Farina at the beginning of 18th-century Germany. The first record of bergamot oil as fragrance ingredient is 1714, to be found in the Farina Archive in Cologne. One hundred bergamot oranges will yield about three ounces (85 grams) of bergamot oil. The scent of bergamot essential oil is similar to a sweet light orange peel oil with a floral note.  Earl Grey tea  is a type of black tea that contains bergamot essential oil as a flavouring.
The health benefits of Bergamot Essential Oil can be attributed to its properties as a deodorant, vulnerary, vermifuge, antibiotic, antiseptic, antispasmodic, sedative, analgesic, antidepressant, disinfectant, febrifuge, cicatrisant, and digestive substance. Cicatrisant: This property of bergamot oil is the reason behind its extensive use in cosmetics and skin care products such as beauty soaps, creams, and lotions. Cicatrisant means a property or an agent which helps scars and other marks on the skin to disappear.
Bergamot oil is sometimes inhaled (used as aromatherapy) to reduce anxiety during radiation treatment. In foods, bergamot oil is widely used as a citrus flavoring agent, especially in gelatins and puddings. In manufacturing, bergamot oil is used in perfumes, creams, lotions, soaps, and suntan oils. Bergamot oil is also applied to the skin (used topically) for a tumor caused by a fungal infection (mycosis fungoides) and for pigment loss (vitiligo). It is also used as an insecticide to protect the body against lice and other parasites.