Clinical dietitians and nutritionists provide medical nutrition therapy. They work in hospitals, long-term care facilities, clinics, private practice, and other institutions. They create nutritional programs based on the health needs of patients or residents and counsel patients on how to lead a healthier lifestyle.
The minimum requirement for a career in dietetics is a bachelor's degree; however, some dietitians hold graduate degrees. There were 279 bachelor's and 18 master's degree programs approved by the Dietetic Association's (ADA) Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (CADE) in 2009 (www.eatright.org).
Research what it takes to become a registered dietitian. Learn about job duties, education requirements, professional registration and salary to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Nutrition degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
Registered Dietitian Education Requirements. Dietitians are typically required to have at least a bachelor's degree in nutrition or dietetics. Common courses include nutritional assessment, clinical nutrition, food systems management and nutrient metabolism.
Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to be a registered dietician. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and certification requirements to find out if this is the career for you.
First things first. To become a registered dietitian, you need to do 3 things: 1  Take the specific set of courses outlined by the Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics (AND). 2  This can be completed at the undergraduate OR graduate level.
Education. Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology.