Department of Chemistry. Interactions between two or more molecules are called intermolecular interactions, while the interactions between the atoms within a molecule are called intramolecular interactions. Intermolecular interactions occur between all types of molecules or ions in all states of matter.
In the liquid phases, all molecules interact with one another. The stronger the interaction between a molecule and a pure liquid, the greater will be the solubility of the molecule in the liquid. All molecules interact with each other through London dispersion forces, or induced dipole interactions.
The. definition is ' The hydrogen bond is an attractive interaction between a hydrogen atom from a molecule or a molecular fragment X–H in which X is more electronegative than H, and an atom or a group of atoms in the same or a different molecule, in which there is evidence of bond formation.
Molecular interaction depends on the distance r between the molecules and usually is described by the potential energy of interaction U(r), the intermolecular potential, since it is precisely the average interaction potential that determines the state of matter and many of its properties.
2. Hydrogen Bonding Definition: An electrostatic interaction between the hydrogen and a lone pair of an atom. - Hydrogen bond donor must have δ + charge that is large enough. This charge is comes from bonding to a highly electronegative element.
Also found in: Acronyms. interaction between electrically neutral molecules or atoms; it determines the existence of liquids and molecular crystals and the difference between real and ideal gases and is manifested in various physical phenomena.
Molecular interaction is electrical in nature and consists of forces of attractive forces (orientation, induction, and dispersion forces) and repulsive forces. Orientation forces act between polar molecules (that is, molecules that have electric dipole moments).
It is also possible that these interactions are due to some sharing of electrons between the molecules in intermolecular orbitals, similar to the molecular orbitals in which electrons from two atoms are shared to form a chemical bond.