SoNS vs ANS. The Somatic Nervous System is the part of the peripheral nervous system that handles voluntary control of body movements. It contains all the neurons connected with skeletal muscles and skin. The Autonomic Nervous System is the part of the peripheral nervous system that acts as an involuntary control system b(elow the level of consciousness), and controls visceral functions.
In the peripheral nervous system, there are 12 pairs of cranial nerves and 31 pairs of spinal nerves. The somatic nervous system is part of the peripheral nervous system. Major functions of the somatic nervous system include voluntary movement of the muscles and organs and reflex movements. The second function of the somatic nervous system is the process of the reflex arc. In this process, the sensory neurons are imbedded in the spinal cord. Because the signal does not have to travel to the central nervous system, the reflex can happen very quickly and without your intention.
The Peripheral Nervous System is divided into two sub-systems. The Somatic Nervous System – primary function is to regulate the actions of the skeletal muscles. Often thought of as mediating voluntary activity. We’ll discuss the Central Nervous System first. The Central Nervous System consists of the brain and the spinal cord. The Cerebral Cortex, which is involved in a variety of higher cognitive, emotional, sensory, and motor functions is more developed in humans than any other animal.
One of the most complex systems in the body is the nervous system. In this lesson, you will learn about the somatic nervous system and how important it is to body functions. Examples and illustrations will be provided to assist your understanding of the lesson. The second function of the somatic nervous system is the process of the reflex arc. In this process, the sensory neurons are imbedded in the spinal cord. Because the signal does not have to travel to the central nervous system, the reflex can happen very quickly and without your intention.
NERVOUS SYSTEM: The nervous system, as a whole, is the collection of structures from neurons to nerves and the bones which support them in the human body.. No related posts. 
For the musician known as Somatic, see Hahn Rowe. The somatic nervous system (SoNS or voluntary nervous system) is the part of the peripheral nervous system associated with skeletal muscle voluntary control of body movements. The SoNS consists of afferent nerves and efferent nerves. Thus somatic nervous system consists of three parts: 1  Spinal nerves: They are peripheral nerves that carry sensory information into and motor commands out of the spinal cord. 2  Cranial nerves: They are the nerve fibers that carry information into and out of the brain stem.
The part of our nervous system that is the sensory and motor neurons that innervate the sense organs and skeletal muscles. SOMATIC NERVOUS SYSTEM: The somatic nervous system is part of our central nervous nervous system along with the autonomic nervous system.. 
The somatic nervous system is part of the peripheral nervous system, which is the entire nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord. Specifically, the somatic nervous system is responsible for movement of voluntary muscles and the process known as a reflex arc. This system carries nerve impulses back and forth between the central nervous system, which is the brain and the spinal cord, and the skeletal muscles, skin, and sensory organs. The second function of the somatic nervous system is the process of the reflex arc. In this process, the sensory neurons are imbedded in the spinal cord. Because the signal does not have to travel to the central nervous system, the reflex can happen very quickly and without your intention.
The Brain and Nervous System. The nervous system is broken down into two major systems: Central Nervous System and Peripheral Nervous System. We’ll discuss the Central Nervous System first. The Central Nervous System consists of the brain and the spinal cord. The Cerebral Cortex, which is involved in a variety of higher cognitive, emotional, sensory, and motor functions is more developed in humans than any other animal.