Meaning of Yahya. Yahya is a direct Quranic name for boys. It has a special significance since it was a divinely created and chosen name, as retold in the Surat Maryam 19:7. O Zachariah, We bring you good news of a son whose name shall be Yahya. We have not given such a name to anyone before. The meaning of Yahya isn’t certain because it is not necessarily Arabic, though it is likely related to Arabic in being a Hebrew/Aramaic name. In Arabic it literally means “He lives”, and the scholars say this means that his legacy will continue to live forever.
The name Yahya is of Arabic origin, and it means Alternate Spelling: Yahia, Yahea, Yahyaa. English Translation is John . It's a name commonly given to boys. 
Comments are left by users of this website. They are not checked for accuracy. Yahya from the Arabic verb Yahya meaning to live or alive. The name is mentioned in the holy Quran (Koran) in Chapter 19 (Surat Mariam The Chapter of Mariam). Yahya is the son of Zakariyya (Zacharias). John thus is not a variant of Yahya nor Yahya is a variant of John although they both refer historically to the same person.
Arabic, Turkish and Persian form of Yochanan (see JOHN). This name honours John the Baptist, a prophet in Islam. 
For people with the given name or surname yahia, see Yahia. Yahya (Arabic: يحيى ‎, Yaḥyā), also written Yahia is a common Arabic male given name, Yahya (John the Baptist) being a prophet of Islam, it is a common name in the Muslim world. In Farsi, Yahya is a title of address for a senior village or community elder; it is also a common nickname for the 12th Imam. 
Yahya Name Meaning. The meaning of Yahya is “God is gracious”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Yahya and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Yahya and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
Egyptian Meaning: The name Yahya is an Egyptian baby name. In Egyptian the meaning of the name Yahya is: Given by God. Muslim Meaning: The name Yahya is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Yahya is: The Biblical John is the English language equivalent. A Prophet's name. 
What does Yahya mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Yahya is of Persian and Arabic origin. The meaning of Yahya is john. It is also of Egyptian origin, where its meaning is given by G-d. 