Causes. Cellulitis occurs when bacteria, most commonly streptococcus and staphylococcus, enter through a crack or break in your skin. The incidence of a more serious staphylococcus infection called methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is increasing. 
Cellulitis facts. 1  Cellulitis is a spreading bacterial infection of the skin and tissues beneath the skin. 2  Staphylococcus and Streptococcus are the types of bacteria that are usually responsible for cellulitis, although many types of bacteria can cause the condition. 1 Sometimes cellulitis appears in areas where the skin has broken open, such as the skin near ulcers or surgical wounds. 2  Symptoms and signs include redness, tenderness, swelling, and warmth of the affected area. 3  Cellulitis is not contagious.
Abscess/Cellulitis. Cellulitis is a serious deep skin infection. An abscess is a pus pocket that forms at the site of tissue that’s been infected, causing pain, swelling, redness and tenderness. Bacteria grow and spread at the site of these infections and they often require treatment by a health professional.
Cellulitis and cellulite are two completely different things. Cellulitis is a bacterial infection of the dermis-the deep layer of skin-as well as the subcutaneous tissues (fat and soft tissue layer) that are under the skin. While cellulite is caused by fatty deposits under the skin that give it an orange peel or cottage cheese look. 
1 Staphylococcus and Streptococcus are the types of bacteria that are usually responsible for cellulitis, although many types of bacteria can cause the condition. 2  Sometimes cellulitis appears in areas where the skin has broken open, such as the skin near ulcers or surgical wounds. 1 Sometimes cellulitis appears in areas where the skin has broken open, such as the skin near ulcers or surgical wounds. 2  Symptoms and signs include redness, tenderness, swelling, and warmth of the affected area. 3  Cellulitis is not contagious.
Cellulitis is a bacterial infection involving the inner layers of the skin. It specifically affects the dermis and subcutaneous fat. Signs and symptoms include an area of redness which increases in size over a couple of days. The borders of the area of redness are generally not sharp and the skin may be swollen. In contrast to cellulitis, erysipelas is a bacterial infection involving the more superficial layers of the skin, presents with an area of redness with well-defined edges, and more often is associated with fever. More serious infections such as an underlying bone infection or necrotizing fasciitis should be ruled out.
Cellulitis occurs when certain types of bacteria enter through a cut or crack in the skin. Cellulitis is commonly caused by staphylococcus and streptococcus bacteria. In 50 to 60 percent of cases, skin injuries such as cuts, insect bites, or surgical incisions are the cause of the infection. Symptoms of Cellulitis. Cellulitis symptoms may include: 1  pain and tenderness in the affected area. 2  redness or inflammation on your skin. 3  skin sore or rash that appears and grows quickly. 4  tight, glossy, swollen appearance of the skin.
1 Cellulitis is a spreading bacterial infection of the skin and tissues beneath the skin. 2  Staphylococcus and Streptococcus are the types of bacteria that are usually responsible for cellulitis, although many types of bacteria can cause the condition. 1 Sometimes cellulitis appears in areas where the skin has broken open, such as the skin near ulcers or surgical wounds. 2  Symptoms and signs include redness, tenderness, swelling, and warmth of the affected area. 3  Cellulitis is not contagious.
Cellulitis Overview. Cellulitis is a common infection of the skin and the soft tissues underneath. It happens when bacteria enter a break in the skin and spread. The result is infection, which may cause swelling, redness, pain, or warmth. You’re at risk if you have: