Nutritional value of olives. The variety of the olive will determine its nutritional value, but typically olives are low in calories, fat, carbohydrates and contain no sugar. Olives also contain small amounts of protein, potassium and are a good source of fiber. Unfortunately olives can be high in sodium, but this is also determined by how they have been cured. Lastly, olives are a good source of iron.
Olives are oval-shaped fruits obtained from the Olea europaea tree; a naturalized, medium-size tree of Mediterranean origin. The fruits, and oil extracted from them, have been part of important food sources for the natives around Mediterranean Sea since centuries. Mediterranean diet that uses olive and its oil may be responsible in part for the lower incidences of coronary artery disease. Olive contains a good amount of vitamin E. 100 g of cured, and canned fruits provide 1.65 mg (11% of RDA) of alpha-tocopherol.
The Nutrition of Olives. Olives give a zesty taste to just about any food. This is due to their intrinsic bitter flavor. One cup of olives, about 135 grams, supplies 155 calories of which 130 calories are supplied by fat. Saturated fat represents about 17 calories or about 1.8 grams. Although the fruit is high in fat content, the greater proportion is monounsaturated fats. This represents 75 percent of the fat content in the fruit or 10.5 grams. Olives are crushed or pressed to produce olive oil, a widely used ingredient in food preparation. The fruit is a powerful health booster.
Traditionally, olives have been viewed as a very healthy food. Beside providing energy, they compose of significant amounts of plant-derived anti-oxidants, minerals, phyto-sterols, and vitamins. Olives are a moderate source of calories; 100 g of fruits carry just 115 calories. Mediterranean diet that uses olive and its oil may be responsible in part for the lower incidences of coronary artery disease. Olive contains a good amount of vitamin E. 100 g of cured, and canned fruits provide 1.65 mg (11% of RDA) of alpha-tocopherol.
Understanding the Nutritional Value of Olives. There is a growing appreciation of the nutritional value of olives today because it is becoming more and more apparent that this fruit is a true power-keg of many things that are good for the human body. Olives are fruits with a long history in the Mediterranean. The olive branch is an internationally recognized peace offering. Olives for good health. The nutritional value of olives stems from the fact that it has very little carbohydrate and is a great source of monosaturates. This makes it a good element in a low-carb diet.
Photo courtesy: A.Poulos. Olives (olea europaea). Olive is a slow growing, evergreen tree with gnarled trunk dividing into grey, fissured branches and foliage of gray-green, fleshy, narrow leaves. It may reach up to 50 feet in height in their natural habitat and may last for more than 500 years. Mediterranean diet that uses olive and its oil may be responsible in part for the lower incidences of coronary artery disease. Olive contains a good amount of vitamin E. 100 g of cured, and canned fruits provide 1.65 mg (11% of RDA) of alpha-tocopherol.
Black olives are low in calories, contain healthy fats, and have many health benefits when consumed as part of a balanced diet. A 1-cup serving of black olives has 142 calories, about 1 gram protein, and about 13 grams fat. The fat in black olives comes primarily from monounsaturated fat sources. Monounsaturated fats are recommended for consumption in moderation to help reduce risk of heart disease, heart attack, and stroke. Calories, Protein and Fat. A 1-cup serving of black olives has 142 calories, about 1 gram protein, and about 13 grams fat. The fat in black olives comes primarily from monounsaturated fat sources.
Olive oil nutrition facts. Chef's favorite, olive oil is one of the principal source of cooking edible oils employed all over the Mediterranean region since centuries. The oil, pressed from olive fruits, oftentimes is revered in many religious texts as a symbol of peace, prosperity, and good health. Olive oil is rich in vitamin E. 100 g fresh extra-virgin oil contains 14.39 mcg (about 96% of RDA) of alpha-tocopherol. Vitamin E is a powerful lipid soluble antioxidant, required for maintaining the integrity of cell membrane of mucus membranes and skin through protecting it from harmful oxygen-free radicals.