Form of: Schuyler. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Skyler and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Skyler and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Skyler is fascinating, learn more about it. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Skyler are: 1  Dutch meaning: Guarded; scholar, learned one. 2  American meaning: The Sky.
Meanings and history of the name Skyler : | Edit. It is of Danish origin, and its meaning is fugitive; giving shelter. Could also have German origins, coming from the German last name Kyler meaning Little Warrior. Phonetic spelling of Schuyler, brought to New York by 17th-century settlers. Skyler has 9 variant forms: Schuyler, Schyler, Skielar, Skielor, Skyelar, Skylar, Skylen, Skyller and Skylor.
The meaning of Skyler has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Skyler are: 1  Dutch meaning: Guarded; scholar, learned one. 2  American meaning: The Sky.
View the Skyler Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Skyler has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Skyler to other names. Skyler is a variant spelling of Skylar. Variants of the name Skyler include Skuyler. Skyler is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sky-ler. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 302 in baby name popularity for girls with 1070 occurrences. It ranked 352 in popular baby names for boys with 911 occurrences
What does Skyler mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Skyler is of Dutch origin. The meaning of Skyler is sheltering, scholar. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is protection, shelter. Skyler is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sky-ler. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 302 in baby name popularity for girls with 1070 occurrences. It ranked 352 in popular baby names for boys with 911 occurrences
The name Skyler or Skylar is an anglicized spelling of the surname and given name Schuyler. Schuyler was originally introduced as to America by 17th century as a Dutch surname by settlers arriving in New York. The spellings Skyler and Skylar came into fashion as either a masculine or feminine given name in the United States during the 1980s.
English Meaning: The name Skyler is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Skyler is: Phonetic spelling of Schuyler. American Meaning: The name Skyler is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Skyler is: Phonetic spelling of Schuyler.
Skyler /sky-ler/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more generally as girls' name Skyler) is pronounced SKY-ler. It is of Danish origin, and the meaning of Skyler is fugitive; giving shelter. Phonetic spelling of Schuyler, brought to New York by 17th-century settlers. Kreatif forms: Skyger, Skylerri, Skyley. 
What does Skylar mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Skylar is of Dutch origin. The meaning of Skylar is sheltering, scholar. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is protection, shelter. View the Skylar Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Skylar has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Skylar to other names. Skylar is a variant spelling of Schuyler. Variants of the name Skylar include Skyler.