“[I]n adult court, they want to lock us up,” Sander A., a Florida youth, told Human Rights Watch for a recent report. “In juvenile court they want to help us make better choices.”. That, in a nutshell, is why children should not be tried as adults. The research is clear that children in the adult criminal justice system are more likely to reoffend than if they are held in the juvenile justice system. 
4. 18 is Too High as a Cutoff for Children. Another pro for trying juveniles as adults can be linked to the belief that 18 is too high of an age limit. Many feel that the age limit for juveniles should be below 18. Those that fall closer to 18 should be tried as adults anyway. No matter the age of the criminal, the crime was still committed and this does not lessen the suffering of the victim. Juveniles tried as adults gives credence to the viewpoint that crime is crime and age should not factor into the punishment. Many feel that punishments for harsher crimes should not be restricted by age. Trying juveniles as adults makes all crimes equal and allows for more justice
In most states, a juvenile offender must be at least 16 to be eligible for waiver to adult court. But, in a number of states, minors as young as 13 could be subjected to a waiver petition. And a few states allow children of any age to be tried as adults for certain types of crimes, such as homicide. The current trend among states is to lower the minimum age of eligibility for waiver in
1 Schwartz: Jordan Brown should not be tried as an adult for crime committed at 11. 2  Writes: Kids incompetent to be tried as adults; trying them as juveniles not excusing crime. 3  It's in society's enlightened self-interest, Schwartz says, to try youngsters in juvenile court. 
It's unlikely that America's thirst for vengeance will be sated by scientific theory. We are, as a nation, very much in favor of treating child criminals as adults  a recent ABC news poll showed 55 percent of us believe the crime, not the perpetrator's age, should be the determining factor in sentencing. Below, a few of the arguments posited by both sides of the juvenile crime debate. All but five states allow children of any age charged with murder to be tried as adults. The death penalty generally isn't an option  at least not for defendants under the age of 16; The U. S. Supreme Court has ruled capital punishment unconstitutional for anyone who hasn't celebrated their 16th birthday.
They should not be tried as adults because sure they can do it over and over but give them chance, they need one. They are weaker than adults and have a whole life to live and live. Some go to juvenile detention for a lesson but do not be that harsh to children. I'm 15 myself and I'm highly for prosecuting children as adults. Not all children should be but for kids who commit gruesome crimes like the ones I shared, then yes they should be prosecuted as adults. That's it end of story.
If you don't think he needs to be prosecuted as an adult well....YOU'RE CRAZY!!! I'm 15 myself and I'm highly for prosecuting children as adults. Not all children should be but for kids who commit gruesome crimes like the ones I shared, then yes they should be prosecuted as adults. That's it end of story.
Fourteen states have no minimum age for trying children as adults. Children as young as eight have been prosecuted as adults. Some states set the minimum age at 10, 12, or 13. EJI believes that the adult prosecution of any child under age 14 for any crime should be banned. Nearly 3000 nationwide have been sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. Children as young as 13 years old have been tried as adults and sentenced to die in prison, typically without any consideration of their age or circumstances of the offense.
Should teenagers who commit serious crimes be tried as juveniles or adults? What happens to young offenders who reach the 'end of the line' in the juvenile court system-and how do you rehabilitate these young people to prevent future criminal behavior? 