Right, lets crack on with the tutorial. First, download MakeMKV from here. Place your DVD or bluray into the tray and open up MakeMKV. As soon as MakeMKV starts, it will automatically look for a disk and have it ready for you. Simply select the optical drive where the disk is located (bluray or DVD drive) and hit the green arrow. The program will now start removing the protection on the disk enabling you to rip it.
1 1. 2  How to rip DVD/Blu-ray free with MakeMKV (beta) on Mac Created by imElfin. 3  2. 1. Launch MakeMKV.  4  Insert your DVD disc to the hard drive on Mac.  5  For a Blu-ray, prepare an external BD drive and insert a BD disc.
In order to create backup, launch MakeMKV, select desired drive on main screen in Source box and press backup icon on a toolbar or select Backup from file menu. Be sure to select decrypt video files on the next dialog.
Among heaps of paid DVD and Blu-ray ripping software on the market, MakeMKV is a rarely functional program enabling people to rip DVD and Blu-ray free. In this guide, I will show you how to use MakeMKV (beta) to rip DVD/Blu-ray free on Mac. MakeMKV has also released Win and Linux version, thereby users can also free rip DVD and Blu-ray on PC and Linux. MakeMKV is only free under a beta version and only supports MKV as output.
Insert a DVD disc to the hard drive on Mac. If you want to rip a Blu-ray on Mac, prepare an external Blu-ray drive in advance (as Mac does not support Blu-ray). Launch MakeMKV, the DVD/BD disc will be loaded at once. Click the disc icon to load and decrypt your disc.
This tutorial is going to cover how to backup the contents of a DvD, HD-DvD or Blu-Ray DvD with MakeMKV in a format that is readable by your computer. The key is to make sure that you have media playback software that can handle the MKV container, and x264 and AAC codecs.
MakeMKV is a shareware program that transcodes your bluray or DVD to MKV, that you are able to use for free for a 30 day trial period, that you can use as often as you wish within that period. If you like the, try before you buy, program then you can purchase it for £49.50 here.