Definition. noun, plural: alleles. (genetics). One member of a pair (or any of the series) of genes occupying a specific spot on a chromosome (called locus) that controls the same trait. Supplement. For example, a pair of alleles controlling the same trait, i.e. eye color: one allele codes for blue eyes, another allele for brown eyes.
If the alleles are different, they and the organism are heterozygous with respect to that gene. The word allele is a short form of allelomorph (other form), which was used in the early days of genetics to describe variant forms of a gene detected as different phenotypes. The frequency of alleles in a diploid population can be used to predict the frequencies of the corresponding genotypes (see Hardy-Weinberg principle). For a simple model, with two alleles: where p is the frequency of one allele and q is the frequency of the alternative allele, which necessarily sum to unity.
When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one may be dominant and the other recessive. The dominant allele is expressed and the recessive allele is masked. This is an example of complete dominance. In heterozygous relationships where neither allele is dominant but both are completely expressed, the alleles are considered to be co-dominant. Co-dominance is exemplified in AB blood type inheritance.
allele. An allele is a variant form of a gene. Some genes have a variety of different forms, which are located at the same position, or genetic locus, on a chromosome. Humans are called diploid organisms because they have two alleles at each genetic locus, with one allele inherited from each parent. When an organism is heterozygous at a specific locus and carries one dominant and one recessive allele, the organism will express the dominant phenotype. Alleles can also refer to minor DNA sequence variations between alleles that do not necessarily influence the gene's
An allele is one of two or more versions of a gene. An individual inherits two alleles for each gene, one from each parent. If the two alleles are the same, the individual is homozygous for that gene. If the alleles are different, the individual is heterozygous. 
Alleles contribute to the organism's phenotype, which is the outward appearance of the organism. Some alleles are dominant or recessive. When an organism is heterozygous at a specific locus and carries one dominant and one recessive allele, the organism will express the dominant phenotype. Alleles can also refer to minor DNA sequence variations between alleles that do not necessarily influence the gene's phenotype.
An allele is an alternative form of a gene (one member of a pair) that is located at a specific position on a specific chromosome. These DNA codings determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring. Since organisms have two alleles for each trait, when the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, the dominant allele trait is expressed and the recessive allele trait is masked. Seeds with the genetic makeup of (YY) or (Yy) are yellow, while seeds that are (yy) are green. More Genetics Information: 1  Chromosomes and Sex.
Each allele encodes a phenotypic feature or a certain inherited characteristic. An individual normally has two alleles for each gene, one contributed by the mother and one by the father. If both alleles are the same, the individual is homozygous; if the alleles are different, the individual is heterozygous. In humans, for example, the allele for brown eyes is dominant, and the allele for blue eyes is recessive. 2 one of two or more contrasting characteristics transmitted by alternative forms of a gene. Also called allelomorph. allelic, adj.
Definition: An allele is an alternative form of a gene (one member of a pair) that is located at a specific position on a specific chromosome. These DNA codings determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring through sexual reproduction. The dominant allele is expressed and the recessive allele is masked. This is an example of complete dominance. In heterozygous relationships where neither allele is dominant but both are completely expressed, the alleles are considered to be co-dominant. Co-dominance is exemplified in AB blood type inheritance.