United States allows people to have dual citizenship and it does not oppose dual citizenship. However, the country will allow US citizens to have dual citizenship only in certain circumstances. A US citizen may become a citizen of a foreign country by birth or by getting married to a foreign national.
A child born in Australia (and who is not otherwise an Australian citizen) and who lives in Australia automatically acquires Australian citizenship on his or her 10th birthday, if the child has not been granted or otherwise acquired Australian citizenship in the meantime.
The most common routes to dual (or triple or more) citizenship are birth, marriage, or naturalization. For example, if you are born in the United States, you automatically become a citizen here. But if your parents are nationals --citizens--of Mexico, for example, you will also be a Mexican citizen.
Children who are born in the UK on or after 21 May 2002, or in a qualifying territory, will always be British citizens otherwise than by descent if, when the child is born, one of the parents is: 1  a British citizen (it does not matter whether the parent is a British citizen by descent or otherwise than by descent); or.
For example: a child is born in the United States to foreign parents. In this example this child has U.S. Dual Citizenship since the child is automatically a citizen of the United States and a citizen of its parent's home country.
Australian nationality law determines who is and who is not an Australian citizen. The status of Australian nationality or Australian citizenship was created by the Nationality and Citizenship Act 1948 (in 1973 renamed the Australian Citizenship Act 1948) which came into force on 26 January 1949.
Brazilian nationality law is based on the principle of Jus soli. As a general rule, any person born in Brazil acquires Brazilian citizenship at birth, irrespective of status of parents. Nationality law is regulated by Article 12 of the Brazilian Federal Constitution.
It is also possible to be a citizen of three or more countries. However, every country has its own laws regarding dual citizenship. Some countries allow it and others do not, while some countries have no particular
In order to become a citizen of a country, it is typically acquired by being born there, marriage, or through naturalization. However, if a person immigrates to another country and want to take up citizenship through a process like naturalization, a person can either obtain dual or individual citizenship.