Yes. Bigger hamsters live longer. ------ Generally speaking it depends on how you treat your hamster. If their cage is always clean, they have a good hygene, and they are fed … well, they will live longer. Hamsters live up from 2-3 years but if they are very well taken care of, they can live up to 5 years.
Regular hamsters (big hamsters like teddies) have an expected lifespan of 3 – 5 years. By Tb240904 (Own work) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons. Dwarf hamsters live up to 3 years. Russians tend to live only about 2, while Siberians and “fake” dwarf hamsters (Chinese, Taiwanese, etc…) live about 3. Roborovski dwarf hamsters life spans are more volatile and live anywhere from 1 to 3 years. All of the above is assuming the hamster lives in good condition.
The lifespan of a Syrian hamster is around 2 - 2.5 years. However, this is assuming that the hamster does not get ill and dies naturally of old age. In my experience, very few Syrians actually die of old age. Most of my Syrians have developed fatal illness between 18 months and 2 years old.
The average lifespan for a teddy bear hamster is two to three years. It is possible, but rare, for these animals to live as long as five years. Teddy bear hamsters are typically weaned from their mothers when they are between 3 weeks and 4 weeks old. These hamsters reach adulthood when they are about 4 months old.
On average, a hamster will live for around 2 to 2.5 years. Of course, this is just an average. Some hamsters will live for this amount of time, some hamsters will live for longer, and some hamsters will, unfortunately, have shorter lives.
Hamsters live 3-5 years while dwarf hamsters live 2-3 years and robo hamsters live 1 – 3 years. This is assuming hamsters receive good care. Bad care often leads to hamsters only living a few months.
Syrian Hamsters can live between 1 and around 3 years, of course this varies between diet, environment, the amount of space it has and the amount of time is it held and cared … for. If a hamster is treated correctly it will live to around the maximum 3 years.