PRADAXA is used to:  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called. atrial fibrillation. With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should. This can lead to blood clots forming and increase your risk of a stroke. If you have to stop taking PRADAXA, your doctor may prescribe another medicine to help prevent a blood clot from forming.  PRADAXA can cause bleeding which can be serious, and sometimes lead to death. This is because PRADAXA is a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body.
PRADAXA is used to: 1  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation not caused by a heart valve problem. 2  treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) or lungs (pulmonary embolism) and reduce the risk of them occurring again. 1 With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should. 2  This can lead to blood clots forming and increase your risk of a stroke. 3
Last reviewed on RxList 7/10/2015. Pradaxa (dabigatran) is an anticoagulant that works by blocking the clotting protein thrombin. Pradaxa is used to prevent blood clots from forming because of a certain irregular heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation). Preventing these blood clots helps to reduce the risk of a stroke. Side effects of Pradaxa include bruising and minor bleeding, nausea, abdominal or stomach pain, stomach upset, indigestion, heartburn, nausea, diarrhea, skin rash, or itching. The usual recommended dose of Pradaxa is 150 mg taken orally, twice daily Pradaxa is administered in capsule form.
What is Pradaxa: Pradaxa is a medicine which is used to prevent the formation of blood clots. It works by blocking a substance in the body which is involved in blood clot formation. What Pradaxa is used for: Pradaxa is used to prevent the formation of blood clots in the veins after knee or hip replacement surgery. The generally recommended dose of Pradaxa is 220 mg once a day (taken as 2 capsules of 110 mg). If your kidney function is decreased by more than half or if you are 75 years of age or older, the recommended dose is 150 mg once a day (taken as 2 capsules of 75 mg).
PRADAXA is used to: 1  reduce risk of stroke and blood clots in patients with atrial fibrillation (AFib) not caused by a heart valve problem. 2  treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis, or DVT) or lungs (pulmonary embolism, or PE) and reduce the risk of them occurring again. 1 With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should. 2  This can lead to blood clots forming and increase your risk of a stroke. 3  treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) or lungs (pulmonary embolism
PRADAXA is used to: 1  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation not caused by a heart valve problem. 2  With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should. 3  This can lead to blood clots forming and increase your risk of a stroke. 1 With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should. 2  This can lead to blood clots forming and increase your risk of a stroke. 3  treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) or lungs (pulmonary embolism) and reduce the risk of them occurring again.
4.5 Stars. 1 Review. 1 Review. Pradaxa is the brand name of the drug dabigatran, which is used to treat and prevent blood clots. It's also used to reduce the risk of stroke in people with a heart rhythm disorder known as atrial fibrillation. The medicine is in a class of drugs called direct thrombin inhibitors. Pradaxa is the brand name of the drug dabigatran, which is used to treat and prevent blood clots
PRADAXA is a prescription blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body. PRADAXA is used to: 1  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation not caused by a heart valve problem. 2  treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) or lungs (pulmonary embolism) and reduce the risk of them occurring again. PRADAXA can cause bleeding which can be serious, and sometimes lead to death. This is because PRADAXA is a blood thinner medicine that lowers the chance of blood clots forming in your body. You may have a higher risk of bleeding if you take PRADAXA and: 1  are 75 years old or older.
Pradaxa. DABIGATRAN is an anticoagulant (blood thinner). It is used to lower the chance of stroke in people with a medical condition called atrial fibrillation. It is also used to treat or prevent blood clots in the lungs or in the veins. Dabigatran is also used to treat and prevent blood clots (eg, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism) from occurring again in patients who already have received other medicines. It works by preventing harmful clots from forming in the blood vessels. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.