The Watson and Crick Model. After learning that DNA had spiral shape, Watson and Crick determined the structure of DNA. The sugar and phosphate groups are bonded in alternating sequences to form the sides of a twisted ladder. Bases are joined by hydrogen bonds to form the rungs of the ladder. 
Confidence votes 7.6K. A DNA molecule is like a ladder because there are two sides (the sugar-phosphate backbones of the two strands) and rungs (each rung being a pair of complementary bases). Twisted, because the molecule is twined in a coil called a helix-or rather, a double helix because there are two strands. The model is called a double helix because two long strands twist around each other like a twisted ladder. The rails of the ladder are made of alternating sugar and phosphate … ... The basic building block of DNA is called a NUCLEOTIDE.
Concept 19 The DNA molecule is shaped like a twisted ladder. Earlier work had shown that DNA is composed of building blocks called nucleotides consisting of a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate group, and one of four nitrogen bases — adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Phosphates and sugars of adjacent nucleotides link to form a long polymer. Other key experiments showed that the ratios of A-to-T and G-to-C are constant in all living things. X-ray crystallography provided the final clue that the DNA molecule is a double helix, shaped like a twisted ladder. In 1953, the race to determine how these pieces fit together in a three-dimensional structure was won by James Watson and Francis Crick at the Cavendish Laboratory in Cambridge, England. They showed that alternating deoxyribose and phosphate molecules form the twisted uprights of the DNA ladder. The rungs of the ladder are formed by complementary pairs of nitrogen bases — A always paired with T and G always paired with C.
Concept 19 The DNA molecule is shaped like a twisted ladder. James Watson and Francis Crick solved the structure of DNA. Other scientists, like Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins, also contributed to this discovery. 
Z form DNA is found in living organisms, but is a left handed helix, meaning it twists in the opposite direction. Unlike A and B form DNA, the major and minor grooves have very similar sizes in Z form DNA. The twisted ladder metaphorA DNA molecule is often likened to a spiral (or twisted) ladder. In this analogy, the rungs of the ladder are the base pairs (A-T and G-C). The sides of the ladder are the sugar-phosphate backbones of the two strands. This refers to B form DNA. Each strand is composed of nucleotides. A nucleotide consists of a base (a purine or pyrimidine), a sugar (between the other two components) named deoxyribose, and a phosphate group. Nucleotides are linked to each other via phosphodiester bonds, forming a sugar-phosphate backbone to each strand.
DNA also includes sugars and phosphate groups that make the phosphate-deoxyribose backbone. If you think of the structure of DNA as a twisted ladder, the rungs of the ladder are made from the nitrogenous bases. These bases pair up to make each step of the ladder. They also only pair up in a specific way. 
Even though the shape of DNA is often described as a ladder, it is not a straight ladder. It is twisted to the right, making the shape of the DNA molecule a right-handed double helix. This shape allows for a large amount of genetic information to be 'stuffed' into a very small space. In fact, if you lined up each molecule of DNA in one cell end to end, the strand would be six feet in length. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a chemical found in the nucleus of cells and carries the 'instructions' for the development and functioning of living organisms. It is often compared to a set of blueprints since it contains the instructions needed to build cells.
Structure of the Double Helix. Double helix is the description of the structure of a DNA molecule. A DNA molecule consists of two strands that wind around each other like a twisted ladder. 
Double Helix is the structure of DNA. The DNA molecule consists of two complementary strands oriented in an antiparallel fashion. Each strand is composed of nucleotides. A nucleotide consists of a base (a purine or pyrimidine), a sugar (between the other two components) named deoxyribose, and a phosphate group. 
(A grouping like this of a phosphate, a sugar, and a base makes up a subunit of DNA called a nucleotide.) These bases make up the 'rungs' of the ladder, and are attached to the backbone where the deoxyribose (sugar) molecules are located. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a chemical found in the nucleus of cells and carries the 'instructions' for the development and functioning of living organisms. It is often compared to a set of blueprints since it contains the instructions needed to build cells.