Weaning. The University of California, Davis Goat Facility weans its kids completely by the age of 3 months. Much depends on the individual; some kids are ready to eat completely on their own before that, but others need longer.
You can completely wean your goat kids within their three months of age. Although weaning much depends on the growth and health condition of kids. Some kids become ready to eat solid foods completely before three months, and some kids need longer for taking solids.
If you are letting the mother goat raise, and nurse, her own kids: There is really no reason for you to have to wean the kids. It causes undue stress on the kids as well as their mother. The mother will naturally wean her kids when she feels the time is right (or she is just plain sick of them).
If they are 8-12 weeks, you could totally wean them. But if they are younger than that, they still need their mother. I start separating the kids from their mother at night around 3-4 weeks, so I can milk her in the morning.
I wean mine by weight. They will usually start to nibble on grass and hay earlier, but I get serious about weaning when they reach 2 1/2 times their birth weight. For example, a kid is 8 lbs at birth, I'll start to wean when it reaches 20 lbs.
You need to know the correct age for weaning bottle fed goat kids, if you are raising the kids through bottle feeding system. It is not nearly as much of a commitment as bottle-feeding a human kid. Because human kids might need bottle feeding for a year or more.
Weaning kids from their dams is a stress-inducing experience for both mothers and kids. Stress can cause illness and subsequent death, so you must minimize stress at all times. Intact bucklings should be weaned at three months of age to keep them from breeding their dams, sisters, or other females in the herd. Doelings can stay with their dams for a longer period of time. My experience is that doelings grow better if they are removed from their dams no later than four to six months of age.
If you are bottle raising the kids: For convenience sake, you can wean around two to three months, see bottle feeding. When we bottle feed, we do so for three months. If you are selling the kids: Kids are ready to leave for their new homes at two months of age.
kids can be weaned at 3 months of age.or when they are eating enough feed hay an grass to sustain themselves. They eat TONS of feed, grass, and some timothy hay. I just feel bad that we took them away from their momma so early. At least they do have a good home here and are very loved!