The pale flesh tastes like the rind of a typical watermelon. The citron is also called preserving melon because the fruit rind is used in preserves, jellies and to make pickles or conserves. Because of its high pectin content, it is added to fruit juices to make them jell more rapidly. Watermelon is called Watermelon because its really juicy. Twi-warfan says: photo courtesy of USDA-ARS People have loved watermelon throughout the world for centuries.
For a long time, watermelon has been taken for granted as a sweet, tasty summertime fruit, made of sugar and water, and nothing more. Over the past years, nutritionists, medical professionals, scientists and researchers have taken an interest to find out more about watermelon's health benefits. As it turns out, watermelon is incredibly healthy! The Watermelon Board is proud to say that watermelon is the Lycopene Leader among fresh produce. In addition to its healthy properties and effects on women, children, men and pregnant women, watermelon is an important part of a healthy diet.
Watermelon juice can be made into wine or blended with other fruit juices. An alcoholic treat called a hard watermelon is made by pouring liquor into a hole in the rind of a whole fruit, and then eating the alcohol-permeated flesh. The watermelon is thought to have originated in southern Africa, where it is found growing wild. It reaches maximum genetic diversity there, with sweet, bland and bitter forms. In the 19th century, Alphonse de Candolle considered the watermelon to be indigenous to tropical Africa.
Of course watermelon is healthy. It's a fruit which should always be part of your eating habits. Watermelon also has a lot of water in it so you will be getting your water you … need. Watermelon is called Watermelon because its really juicy. Twi-warfan says: photo courtesy of USDA-ARS People have loved watermelon throughout the world for centuries.
The watermelon fruit, loosely considered a type of melon (although not in the genus Cucumis), has a smooth exterior rind (green and yellow) and a juicy, sweet, usually red, but sometimes orange, yellow, or pink interior flesh. i like watermelon. a very refreshing summer fruit! Report Abuse. A water melon I think is a fruit. Its green on the outside and is red on the inside-I think theres a white bit too but don't eat the white bit.. There are seeds embedded in the red bit that you pick out. It tastes like crunchy water I suppose.
Despite popular belief that watermelon is made up of only water and sugar, watermelon is actually considered a nutrient dense food, a food that provides a high amount of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants for a low amount of calories. Watermelons have become synonymous with summer and picnics, and for good reason. Hydration: Made up of 92% water and full of important electrolytes, watermelon is a great snack to have on hand during the hot summer months to prevent dehydration. Inflammation: Choline is a very important and versatile nutrient in watermelon that aids our bodies in sleep, muscle movement, learning and memory.
Watermelon is made up of ninety-two percent (92%) pure alkaline water. Watermelon is actually packed with some of the most important antioxidants in nature. These powerful antioxidants 'potent carotenoid antioxidant' and 'lycopene' travel through the body neutralizing free radicals. If you have urinary tract infection or kidney stones, drinking (8) eight cups of watermelon juice can help you with your condition. Canker sores, is a type of oral ulcer also called aphthous ulcers, are small, shallow lesions that develop on the soft tissues in the mouth and at the base of your gums.
Best Answer: Watermelon (Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Matsum & Nakai, family Cucurbitaceae) refers to both fruit and plant of a vine-like (climber and trailer) herb originally from southern Africa and one of the most common types of melon. Report Abuse. A water melon I think is a fruit. Its green on the outside and is red on the inside-I think theres a white bit too but don't eat the white bit.. There are seeds embedded in the red bit that you pick out. It tastes like crunchy water I suppose