Operations Analyst Job Description. This operations analyst sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. 
Job Description for Operations Analyst Job Summary The operations analyst is a key member of the operations team supporting data management, client reporting, trade processes, and problem resolution. 
Median pay for Sales Operations Analysts in the United States is around $57K annually. Cash earnings of Sales Operations Analysts can occasionally include $10K each in bonuses and profit sharing proceeds; this strong performance component causes pay grades to stretch from approximately $42K to almost $82K. Popular Employer Salaries for Sales Operations Analyst. AirWatch offers the least pay with a median salary of $50K; furthermore, salaries there max out at only $55K.
Average Sales Operations Analyst salaries for job postings nationwide are 70% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
The sales operations team members are often liaisons for sales to other parts of the organisation such as finance, marketing, legal and IT. They will represent the needs of sales in meetings and cross-functional projects. Sales operations may also be referred to as sales, sales support or business operations. The set of sales operations activities vary from company to company but often include these five categories: Sales Force Enablement. 1  Sales Process Development. 2  Sales Process Adoption and Compliance.
(United States). The average pay for a Senior Sales Operations Analyst is $72,567 per year. For the first five to ten years in this position, salary increases modestly, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. $56,540 - $91,163. Senior sales operation analysts perform a number of sales analysis-related tasks for their organization. They are responsible for conducting forecasting, which includes performing analytics and creating metrics to analyze current sales tactics and operations within the company.
Sales operations are a set of business activities and processes that help a sales organization run effectively, efficiently and in support of business strategies and objectives. Sales operations may also be referred to as sales, sales support or business operations. The set of sales operations activities vary from company to company but often include these five categories: Sales Force Enablement. 1  Sales Process Development. 2  Sales Process Adoption and Compliance.
The sales operations analyst generally works in a high-intensity environment in which they are responsible for several concurrent tasks, which makes the ability to multitask and solve problems quickly important. Popular Employer Salaries for Sales Operations Analyst. AirWatch offers the least pay with a median salary of $50K; furthermore, salaries there max out at only $55K.