Renters Insurance Statistics. As you begin thinking about your renters policy and how much you’ll be spending on coverage, it might be helpful to consider some statistics. 1  In 2010, the average cost of a rental insurance policy in the U.S. was $185 a year. 2  Renter insurance costs are highest in Mississippi, Louisiana and Oklahoma. 
1 Renter's insurance is too expensive, and I already have enough bills to pay.. 2  The average renter's insurance policy costs between $15 and $30 per month. 3  Replacing all of your possessions or being liable for an accident on your premises will cost much more. 
Typical costs: 1  Renters insurance cost depends on geographic location, deductible, the insurance company and the particular coverage plan. 2  According to the Insurance Information Institute, the average cost of renters insurance is $150 to $300 per year. 1
According to the Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America, the average cost of renters insurance is $12 per month for $30,000 of property coverage and $100,000 of liability coverage. Additional coverage options may be available for an additional expense depending on the insurance provider. The monthly cost for renters' insurance will vary depending on the state in which you live, the type of coverage you select, the amount of coverage you elect and the amount of your deductible.
The average cost is much lower than you might think. People living in apartments in Fresno, California can buy a renter’s policy for less than $10 per month. That will provide around $20,000 of protection for personal property and $300,000 for liability protection in the event of personal injury and property damage. 
The average monthly renter's insurance policy is: • Less than the approximately $80 per month that 50 percent American workers spend on coffee, according to a 2012 study by Accounting Principals. Prices vary depending on the level of coverage, but according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the average cost of a renter’s insurance policy is about $15 per month; that's certainly less than the day-to-day expenditures a number of people pay for that they don’t need.
Further, the cost of renter's insurance depends on the insurance company selected. According to Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America (IIAB), the average cost for renter's insurance is about $12 per month for $30,000 worth of property coverage and $100,000 of liability coverage. A renter can choose to insure only certain items and leave others uninsured. Even if the renter has $45,000 worth of possessions, he does not have to use that value as the policy coverage amount. He may instead decide to insure them for only $20,000 or $30,000, which would hold down the cost of the policy.
Renters insurance is cheap in most places because it’s not covering the structure, but it’s often even less expensive in North Carolina as a direct result of the unique system of price regulation. The national average cost for renters insurance is $15-$20 per month. In NC, renters insurance costs hover closer to $10-$12 a month in most cases. It’s cheap, but it’s the same coverage you’d get in any other state. 
Generally speaking, deductibles for renters' insurance range from $500 to $2,000, so when choosing a policy, you will want to be comfortable with the amount you would be required to pay out of your own pocket prior to insurance coverage beginning. The monthly cost for renters' insurance will vary depending on the state in which you live, the type of coverage you select, the amount of coverage you elect and the amount of your deductible.