7, 8 as the term used to describe the opposite of absenteeism, “presenteeism” is the phenomenon of employees coming to work yet not functioning up to their capabilities on the job. in one survey, 60 percent of workers reported losing productivity due to stress while at work during the past month. 9 Stressed Workers.
By the end of 2008, participants reported an 80 percent reduction in workplace pressures, a 25 percent drop in work/life conflict, and a 21 percent increase in satisfaction with gSK as an employer.
- Stress: The Stress Cost Formula. One source that studied stress and the workplace calculates that stress is linked to nearly 20 percent of absenteeism costs. The latest CCH study puts the numbers of absenteeism due to stress as 11 percent of all unscheduled leave taken according to their respondents.
An estimated 1 million workers are absent every day due to stress. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work reported that over half of the 550 million working days lost annually in the U.S. from absenteeism are stress related and that one in five of all last minute no-shows are due to job stress.
KFF/HRET, 2012), 18 which is consistent with our results. The National Study of Employers, a representative survey by the Families and Work Institute, reported that wellness program offering increased from 51 percent in 1998 to 63 percent in 2012 (Galinsky and Matos, 2012).
Women are also more likely than men to cope with job stress with unhealthy behaviors, such as poor eating habits. 36, 37 For working women, caregiving and balancing work/life issues is a significant stressor. Well over half of the caregivers in the United States are women and 59 percent are also employed.
Reasons for Heightened Absenteeism. Many studies suggest that most of employee absenteeism, roughly between 60% and 70%, is due to reasons other than employee illness. The following are the most common reasons employees tend to miss work.
•65% of workers said that workplace stress had caused difficulties and more than 10 percent described these as having major effects; •10% said they work in an atmosphere where physical violence has occurred because of job stress and in this group, 42% report that yelling and other verbal abuse is common;