Travel Money Card. For a secure, more convenient way to take extra money away, our pre-loaded Travel Money card could be the answer. The Travel Money Card can be used in same way as debit or credit cards to pay for goods or withdraw from ATM’s while abroad. These cards are available in Euros or US Dollars. 
For travellers going to one of the 17 countries on the Continent within the Eurozone, a euro travel prepaid card is the right choice and if you’re holidaying in America choose a card loaded with dollars. Other cards, such as debit and credit cards, use the exchange rate on the day to convert your spending back into pounds. If you see the foreign currency rate fall in the weeks before you go away you can buy a prepaid card loaded with currency immediately to take advantage of any weakness.
Travel Money Card Plus is a prepaid MasterCard that puts you in control of your holiday spending. This multi award-winning card is so easy to use and is totally secure. You can manage your account from anywhere via an app, online or even by text message. 
You may also find this is the case when using your debit card abroad. And the additional costs can climb even higher if you withdraw travel money from a foreign ATM using a plastic card that isn’t designed for overseas use. Prepaid cards – ones ‘loaded’ with funds before you set off – are an attractive option. Should you get a prepaid card for your holiday money. Taking a credit card to fund your holiday spending can be a good idea – it’s a more convenient way to pay, and it affords you the same payment protection abroad as it does at home.
Your card will then be available to pick up from your choice of over 500 Thomas Cook stores. Our Travel Money Card is available in seven currencies (British Pounds, Euros, US Dollars, Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars, New Zealand Dollars and South African Rand). When you purchase or top-up your Travel Money Card, you ensure that you exchange your travel money at the rate shown on the day, thereby avoiding exchange rate fluctuations and variations when you’re abroad.
ANZ Travel Card is a secure and easy way to access your own money-in the currencies of your choice-while you're travelling. To order online visit the ANZ Travel Card website and collect at an ANZ branch in 5 business days. Get your ANZ Travel Card instantly at your nearest ANZ branch. You get a spare ANZ Travel Card in case one is lost or stolen. Multiple reload options. Reload your card online or over the phone via BPAY® or in person at any ANZ Foreign Exchange Centre or Australia Post outlet. Manage your money. Check your balance, transaction history and add new currencies online or over the phone.
ANZ Travel Card is a prepaid card loaded with foreign currency which you can use at ATMs and to make purchases overseas at 36 million locations wherever you see the Visa logo. You get a spare ANZ Travel Card in case one is lost or stolen. Multiple reload options. Reload your card online or over the phone via BPAY® or in person at any ANZ Foreign Exchange Centre or Australia Post outlet. Manage your money. Check your balance, transaction history and add new currencies online or over the phone.
The Visa TravelMoney card is a prepaid card that you can use anywhere Visa debit cards are accepted; TravelMoney can be used in person, online and over the phone. TravelMoney has several features that make it distinct from other prepaid products. A Visa Gift Card is a prepaid bank card that travelers can use anywhere Visa debit cards are accepted. The purchaser determines the amount they would like to spend on a gift card and then buys the card from an issuing bank.
If there is money left on your card when you return home, you can either: 1  continue to use it (e.g. Online Shopping, ATM withdrawal). 2  Don't forget if you make purchases in Australian Dollars, the 3% AUD Currency Fee applies. Examples: 1  If you have only loaded Australian Dollars on your card and you make a purchase in Fiji, the transaction will be converted from Fijian Dollars into Australian Dollars and debited from the Australian Dollars stored on your card. 2  You will pay the AUD Currency Fee of 3% of the transaction value.