[ 2 syll. luc-ky, lu-cky ] The baby girl name Lucky is also used as a boy name, with the latter form being far more popular. It is pronounced as L AH-K-iy- †. Lucky's language of origin is Latin and it is predominantly used in English. Lucky is a diminutive of the English Felicity. Lucky is also a diminutive of the English Lucy. Lucky is an uncommon baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. In 2012, among the family of girl names directly related to Lucky, Lucy was the most widely used. In the last century Lucky has mainly been a boy name.
People have been searching for good luck since the beginning of time. We’ll use just about anything -- from symbols (a horseshoe or rabbit’s foot) to numbers (David and Victoria Beckham’s baby girl bears the middle name Seven) and beyond – to get luck on our side. Lucky animal baby names. The tortoise, one of the four sacred animals, is considered a good luck symbol. Kameko is a Japanese baby girl name that means Child of the tortoise. The frog has long been a symbol of prosperity, wealth, friendship and good fortune.
If you are looking for a lucky Irish baby name, why not name your baby girl the name Ireland, after the birthplace of the mythical leprechaun? Clover is another delightful name for a baby girl, after the lucky four leaf clover. Patrick is a great Irish name for a baby boy, after the March holiday St Patrick's Day. Image: ICHIRO/ Elzbieta Sekowska/Getty Images. We have rounded up lucky baby names, Irish names with great meanings and the top Irish baby names in Ireland.
A propos of Laura's Blog post about name 'meaning' (and despite the debate over what name 'meaning' actually means and how significant it should be), it occurs to me to collect names with meanings/ connotations of luck for those naming little ones in the potentially unluck year of 2013. 
Lucky Baby Names: Irish Baby Names, Lucky Origins and the Stars. Every parent wants to give their baby-to-be the best start possible, which usually begins with a unique baby name. Names that mean “luck” and “fortune” may give your little one a step in the right direction from the moment he makes his way into the world, while other names like “fate” may be your daughter’s destiny:
Baby Names with Lucky Origins. Names that mean “luck” and “fortune” may give your little one a step in the right direction from the moment he makes his way into the world, while other names like “fate” may be your daughter’s destiny: Baby Boy Names that Mean Luck or Fortune Chance (English). Fausto (Spanish). Fortune (English)
Irish baby girl and baby boy names. Irish baby names are not only unique and cool, but are also considered to have the Luck of the Irish!. Image: ICHIRO/ Elzbieta Sekowska/Getty Images. We have rounded up lucky baby names, Irish names with great meanings and the top Irish baby names in Ireland.
English Meaning: The name Lucky is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lucky is: Fortunate. Lucky is also used as a nickname for Lucas and its variants. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.
Baby names that mean miracle or lucky. Hiya im looking for a name that means something like miracle or lucky, as my baby is very lucky to be here due to complications with my fertility.. people have suggested names such as Grace but i already have a niece with that name