Trichinosis is infection caused by the roundworm Trichinella spiralis or another Trichinella roundworm. Symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramps, muscle pain, and fever. People acquire the infection by eating raw or undercooked contaminated meat. 
Trichinosis is a disease caused by parasitic roundworms (nematodes) that can infect and damage body tissues. Nematodes are a major division of the helminth family of parasitic worms (for example, Trichinella spiralis). 1 Trichinosis is caused by eating raw or undercooked pork and wild game infected with the larvae of a parasitic worm. 2  The contaminated meat is infected with the larvae of a worm called Trichinella spiralis. 3  The initial symptoms of trichinosis are abdominal discomfort, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, fatigue, and fever
Trichinosis is caused by Trichinella species (parasitic nematodes, intestinal worms, and roundworms) that initially enter the body when meat containing the Trichinella cysts (roundworm larvae) is eaten. 
Trichinosis, trichinellosis or trichiniasis is a parasitic disease caused by roundworms of the genus Trichinella. Several subspecies cause human disease, but T. spiralis is the most known. Trichinosis is mainly caused by eating undercooked meat containing encysted larval Trichinella. In the stomach the larvae are exposed to stomach acid and pepsin which releases them from their cysts.
Causes. People get trichinosis when they eat undercooked meat — such as pork, bear, walrus or horse — that is infected with the immature form (larvae) of the trichinella roundworm. In nature, animals are infected when they feed on other infected animals. 
Trichinella is the genus of parasitic roundworms of the phylum Nematoda that cause trichinosis (also known as trichinellosis). Members of this genus are often called trichinella or trichina worms. 
Because of a little roundworm parasite named Trichinella. An infection by this nematode causes trichinosis. Trichinella parasite is a unique roundworm, in that its larvae can travel to, and encase itself in, muscle tissue. Thus, if you eat infected muscle meat, then immature trichinella can migrate to your muscles as well. 
Trichinosis is a disease caused by a roundworm that is found in animals that eat meat. Humans can be infected when they eat undercooked pig, horse, bear, fox, and walrus meat. The roundworm begins its life cycle in the intestines and then lodges itself in the muscles, causing pain and discomfort. 
Trichinosis. Trichinosis is a parasitic roundworm disease. Human cases of trichinosis have been associated with eating raw or undercooked meat, especially homemade sausage that contains pork or horse meat, as well as eating walrus or bear meat. Unlike some of the other parasitic roundworm diseases, trichinosis is not an intestinal infection in the usual sense. Symptoms are caused by the movement of the larvae from the intestines throughout the body, and also by their encystment (becoming enclosed in a capsule) in muscle tissue.