These negative items are dragging your credit score down and you want to know how long these are going to be listed on your report. It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 
Normally bankruptcies will remain on a credit report for 10 years following the discharge of the bankruptcy. Other items will remain for about seven years from the date of the last activity. The seven year period starts all over again whenever you generate any activity on a non-delinquent account, including making a payment. But once the account has gone and remained delinquent, the time cannot be regenerated as new.
How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Some items will stay on your credit report for several years anyway: 1  A bankruptcy will stay on your credit report, from the date of discharge, for six or seven years (or in some cases up to 14 years), depending on the credit bureau, the province you live in, and whether you were also previously bankrupt. 
Generally speaking, negative information will need to stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity, and bankruptcies can appear on your credit report for 10 years from the date of last activity. Late payments typically stay on your credit report for 7 years, so if you missed the payment in 2007, it should be removed from your credit report in 2014. There are some exceptions though, so read our blog How Long Does A Late Payment Stay On My Credit Report for more details. Thanks for asking and come back again.
- Good credit stays for 10 years and then it is aged off but can stay longer. - Bankruptcies that, from the date of adjudication, (means decision) antedate (means predate) the report by more than 10 years. - Collection accounts and charge offs remain for 7 years from first serious delinquency or charge off date. 
1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Certain state laws may also impact how long information stays on your credit report. For current New York residents, for example, paid collections will remain on your credit report for only five years, while unpaid collections will remain for the full seven years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.