Fish and seafood begins to decline in quality immediately after being caught, so flash freezing fish as soon as possible retains quality and seals in freshness. When fish is flash frozen at sea while still on board the boat it could not be fresher!
How often is your 'fresh' fish this fresh? Flash frozen fish is as good as fresh fish, and indeed sometimes better! This can be so as long as the fish has been flash frozen quickly and soon after being caught. When fish is flash frozen in this way it is sometimes even frozen while still at sea on the fish trawlers.
• Get the best seafood year-round. Taste and nutrition are locked in when fish is frozen at sea, and you're never restricted to just what's available fresh today. How to Store Frozen Seafood Most of the seafood you buy frozen comes prepackaged in a vacuum-sealed bag. Store it in your freezer for up to five months.
The loss in quality as a result of freezing, cold storage and thawing is small when these treatments are properly applied. Thus, when very fresh fish are frozen at sea, the final product can be equal to the best on the market.
When newly caught, fish are frozen quickly and stored at a low temperature on board, so there is no limit imposed on the length of voyage due to spoilage of the catch. Fishing vessels can remain at the fishing grounds until the hold is full.
The length of time a fishing boat can remain at sea depends on the time the fish can be kept so that they are still edible on reaching the consumer. Storage in ice or by other means which keep the fish chilled is adequate for periods not much in excess of two weeks.
Taste and nutrition are locked in when fish is frozen at sea, and you're never restricted to just what's available fresh today. How to Store Frozen Seafood Most of the seafood you buy frozen comes prepackaged in a vacuum-sealed bag. Store it in your freezer for up to five months.
13.2 Type of Freezer Vessel. Fish frozen at sea may be frozen whole, immediately after catching and when thawed on shore, can then be used in much the same way as fish traditionally preserved in ice.