Psychiatrists need to be able to take in complex information and synthesize it to reach a conclusion. Interacting with another human being is a complicated process at the best of times; when that person is coping with emotional disruptions or even psychosis, the experience can become very challenging. Psychiatrists are medical doctors who specialize in the mental conditions and difficulties of patients. Although psychiatrists deal with similar issues to those of psychologists, they differ from psychologists primarily because they're qualified to prescribe medications to patients.
Like all physicians, psychiatrists undergo a lengthy education. Undergraduate degrees must be followed by medical degrees, residencies and licensing exams. Even the best education and training, however, cannot guarantee success. To be an effective psychiatrist, the individual also needs certain personal skills. Psychiatrists need to be understanding about the problems, challenges and needs of others to be at their most effective. In clinical practice, a psychiatrist might hear statements that shock, anger or repel him.
Psychiatrists must be able to judge how another is reacting and why he is reacting in that manner. Especially when dealing with patients, a psychiatrist must use his own perceptions to determine potential risks and benefits, such as deciding whether a patient might become dangerous to himself or others. Psychiatrists need to be understanding about the problems, challenges and needs of others to be at their most effective. In clinical practice, a psychiatrist might hear statements that shock, anger or repel him.
To become a psychiatrist, a student must complete four years of college, four years of medical school, and three or more years of internship and residency. Yet, medical knowledge is just one of the skills a good psychiatrist needs. Ability to Communicate Well. A psychiatrist needs to be able to communicate with many people in addition to the patient. He may talk to family members to get other perspectives on the patient's problems, and to assess family dynamics.
As such, they need to have compassion and empathy for others. Psychiatrists need to be understanding about the problems, challenges and needs of others to be at their most effective. In clinical practice, a psychiatrist might hear statements that shock, anger or repel him.
When it is time for the psychiatrist to speak, he needs to be able to do so in such a way that the listener cannot possibly misunderstand what he is saying. Psychiatrists must also be able to understand written communications and prepare written reports or files so that others can understand what he is trying to convey. Psychiatrists need to be understanding about the problems, challenges and needs of others to be at their most effective. In clinical practice, a psychiatrist might hear statements that shock, anger or repel him.
Step 1: Attend Undergraduate School. Training for a career in psychiatry begins in undergraduate school, and a bachelor's degree is required for admission to medical school. Undergraduate students pursuing a career in psychiatry may consider majoring in psychology, but a specific major is not required. Step 2: Earn a Medical Degree. Aspiring psychiatrists must complete the same medical school training as doctors, surgeons and other physicians. Medical degree programs typically take four years to complete.
During completion of a psychiatric residency program, medical school graduates receive the additional training and education needed to work as a psychiatrist. Admission to residency programs can be competitive and is based on performance in medical school and scores received on medical board exams. Essential Information. Psychiatrists are medical doctors who specialize in the treatment of disorders of the mind. Psychiatrists spend twelve or more years studying at the postsecondary and postgraduate levels to acquire the education and training necessary to start a career.