Rich in potassium, the potatoes are also helpful in lowering the blood pressure. It is essential when you want to lower your blood pressure. A good supply of potassium in the body counters the bad effects of sodium. And if you are low in potassium, your body retains sodium. Sodium is bad fo
1. Maintain a balanced diet. A diet composed of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy can lower your blood pressure by as much as 14 mm Hg, especially when that diet also contains minimal amounts of saturated fats and cholesterol. 1  Dietary changes are usually the first step in dropping your blood pressure.
1 High blood pressure is any reading over 140/90 mm Hg, which puts you at higher risk of a heart attack or stroke. 2  Losing 10 pounds, walking, eating using the DASH method, avoiding salt, and stress relief are quick ways to lower your blood pressure.
You also want to reduce the amount of salt in your foods, since sodium increases blood pressure. Processed foods and deli meats are high in sodium, so avoid those if possible. You may also want to add spices to your food to replace the flavor that will be lost when you reduce the salt.
Even a small reduction in the sodium in your diet can reduce blood pressure by 2 to 8 mm Hg. The effect of sodium intake on blood pressure varies among groups of people. In general, limit sodium to less than 2,300 milligrams (mg) a day or less.
Two Methods: Long term healthiness Lower blood pressure the night before a test. If your blood pressure is a major concern with you and your doctor, then you both need to come up with a plan of action. Although you cannot significantly lower blood pressure overnight, you can make changes overnight that will begin the journey toward lower blood pressure.
Again, this has shown great results and is a proven way how to lower blood pressure quickly. Eating certain foods also helps. This includes eating dark chocolates, garlic, and bananas. Dark chocolates have large quantities of cocoa – the flavonoids in the cocoa help with lowering your blood pressure.
Highlights. 1  High blood pressure is any reading over 140/90 mm Hg, which puts you at higher risk of a heart attack or stroke. 2  Losing 10 pounds, walking, eating using the DASH method, avoiding salt, and stress relief are quick ways to lower your blood pressure.