Determining changes in the reservoir over time. The time-lapse, or 4D, seismic method involves acquisition, processing, and interpretation of repeated seismic surveys over a producing hydrocarbon field. 
Reflection seismology (or seismic reflection) is a method of exploration geophysics that uses the principles of seismology to estimate the properties of the Earth 's subsurface from reflected seismic waves. The general principle of seismic reflection is to send elastic waves (using an energy source such as dynamite explosion or Vibroseis) into the Earth, where each layer within the Earth reflects a portion of the wave’s energy back and allows the rest to refract through.
Digital seismic signal acquisition is supported by two acquisition platforms (SeisComP3 and SMARTGeoHub servers), for fully automated earthquake data processing and analyzing of earthquake information, along with simultaneous application of dozens of programs for those purposes. Seismic data acquisition consists of gathering and recording of continuous seismic signals from seismic stations. Process of automatic acquisition, detection, processing and dissemination of seismic data at Observatory's acquisition center is performed on three parallel acquisition systems: DASP (B. Glavatovic, MSO, Montenegro), SeisComP3 (GFZ, Potsdam, Germany) and SmartGeoHub (Geotech Instruments, Dallas, TX)
The field SEG-Y data files may be processed and plotted using seismic processing software such as Seismic Unix (SU). SU is Unix / Linux public-domain software provided by the Colorado School of Mines and is currently located at http://www.cwp.mines.edu/cwpcodes/index.html. * The acquisition system used to collect the seismic data presented in this report, may have added 6 ms to the top of each seismic trace. However, since no bathymetric data was simultaneously collected with the seismic data we have no way of proving that the added 6 ms does exist for this data set.
The method requires a controlled seismic source of energy, such as dynamite / Tovex, a specialized air gun or a seismic vibrator, commonly known by the trademark name Vibroseis. Reflection seismology is similar to sonar and echolocation. The general principle of seismic reflection is to send elastic waves (using an energy source such as dynamite explosion or Vibroseis) into the Earth, where each layer within the Earth reflects a portion of the wave’s energy back and allows the rest to refract through.
Terrex services the mining and resources sector by conducting 2D, 3D and 4D seismic surveys to image geology from near surface shallow coal seams (30m - 1km) to deep crustal basement (50km) and everything in between. Terrex Seismic operates up to four seismic vibrators on each of its seismic crews using the Sercel 428XL Seismic Recording System with Sensor SM24 10Hz Geophones.
Digital seismic data acquisition with automatic earthquake data processing and dissemination. After earthquake occurrence, off-line data processing is done on special software developed in Observatory, creating final parameters of earthquake, on the Montenegro territory, western Balkan and the World. Seismic data acquisition consists of gathering and recording of continuous seismic signals from seismic stations. Process of automatic acquisition, detection, processing and dissemination of seismic data at Observatory's acquisition center is performed on three parallel acquisition systems: DASP (B. Glavatovic, MSO, Montenegro), SeisComP3 (GFZ, Potsdam, Germany) and SmartGeoHub (Geotech Instruments, Dallas, TX)
All modern seismic inversion methods require seismic data and a wavelet estimated from the data. Typically, a reflection coefficient series from a well within the boundaries of the seismic survey is used to estimate the wavelet phase and frequency. Seismic data is band-limited, reducing resolution and quality. To extend the frequency band available, low-frequency data is derived from log data, pre-stack depth or time migrated velocities and/or a regional gradient.
Seismic data acquisition involves applying a seismic energy source, such as a vibroseis truck or shot-hole dynamite at discrete surface location. The resulting energy is reflected back from interfaces where rock properties change. Terrex Seismic operates up to four seismic vibrators on each of its seismic crews using the Sercel 428XL Seismic Recording System with Sensor SM24 10Hz Geophones.