The average hospital charge for a total knee replacement (TKR) in the United States is $49,500. A partial knee replacement (PKR) typically costs about 10 to 20 percent less than a TKR. The main reason is that the operation requires a shorter hospital stay. For example: an average of 2.3 days, compared to 3.4 days. Keep in mind that hospital charges don’t reflect the amount you pay out of pocket.
Medicare spends an average of $16,500 to $33,000 per patient for the surgery, hospitalization, and recovery from hip and knee replacements, but depending on the provider and where the treatment takes place, the quality and cost of these surgeries can vary greatly. 
Knee and hip replacements are two of the most common procedures for Medicare patients and cost the federal program more than $7 billion for hospitalization alone in 2013. The proposed program would apply to about a quarter of the 400,000 knee and hip replacement surgeries performed annually on Medicare patients. 
Total Knee Replacement Cost. The United States has among the highest costs in the world for knee replacement surgery. An American with no health insurance can expect to pay $45,000 – $70,000 at a typical hospital. Those with insurance will, barring a few exceptions, be covered by their provider. The cost of the knee replacement device itself will also be included in the total cost of your surgery. There are a number of different knee replacement device manufacturers, with different products used depending on the hospital and your particular condition.
The amount you will pay out-of-pocket for knee replacement surgery depends on insurance coverage. Even if your insurance covers knee replacement, you will likely need to pay part of the cost. Ask your insurance provider about your costs—copays, deductibles and co-insurance—for your surgery. Insurance Coverage for a Knee Replacement. Most health insurance plans—including Medicare and Medicaid—cover knee replacement surgery. If your insurance plan covers it, your doctor will need to establish that it is medically necessary. It can help to know exactly what your doctor must document to show this.
What patients are included. The hip/knee complication measure includes Medicare beneficiaries 65 or older who were electively admitted for hip/knee replacement and enrolled in Original Medicare (traditional fee-for-service Medicare) for the entire 12 months prior to their hospital admission. The hip/knee complication rate is an estimate of complications within an applicable time period, for patients electively admitted for primary total hip and/or knee replacement.
If you don’t have insurance and will be paying for your knee replacement, it’s wise to research knee replacement costs. The United States is known for wide variation in healthcare costs. The average national price for a knee replacement in 2012 was about $20,000 plus the cost of the implant. Implants can cost up to $10,000. Your choice of hospital or operating facility can be the biggest factor in the cost of your knee replacement. Insurance Coverage for a Knee Replacement. Most health insurance plans—including Medicare and Medicaid—cover knee replacement surgery. If your insurance plan covers it, your doctor will need to establish that it is medically necessary. It can help to know exactly what your doctor must document to show this.
1 And at the Kapiolani Medical Center in Aiea, Hawaii, where the full price is about $33,000, an uninsured patient would pay a discounted rate of $20,212 to $23,581. 2  Knee replacement surgery usually is covered by health insurance if ordered by a doctor. 1 A partial knee replacement costs about half the amount of a total knee replacement. 2  Look for a surgeon who is certified by the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery and who has plenty of experience performing knee replacements.
1 Medicare covers knee replacement surgery. 2  For patients with insurance, out-of-pocket expenses can vary from hundreds to several thousand dollars, depending on deductible, and copay or coinsurance. 1 A partial knee replacement costs about half the amount of a total knee replacement. 2  Look for a surgeon who is certified by the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery and who has plenty of experience performing knee replacements.
The cost of a knee replacement can vary substantially, even within the same geographical area. The final hospital charge depends on many factors, including: 1  number of days spent in the hospital: This will vary depending on the type of knee replacement you have (total, partial, or bilateral). A partial knee replacement (PKR) typically costs about 10 to 20 percent less than a TKR. The main reason is that the operation requires a shorter hospital stay. For example: an average of 2.3 days, compared to 3.4 days. Keep in mind that hospital charges don’t reflect the amount you pay out of pocket.