Maltose is a disaccharide formed from the linkage of glucose + glucose, sucrose is formed from the linkage of glucose + fructose, and lactose is formed from the linkage of glucose + galactose. Lactose is also referred to as milk sugar because it is found in milk. Lactose Intolerance. Because lactose is a double sugar, or disaccharide, it is too big to pass through the lining of your digestive tract when you consume it. Therefore, it must be broken down into its monosaccharide units to be absorbed out of your digestive tract and into your bloodstream.
All dairy products because they contain lactose which is a disaccharide made of glucose and galactose. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lactose is a disaccharide sugar derived from galactose and glucose that is found in milk. Lactose makes up around 2–8% of milk (by weight), although the amount varies among species and individuals, and milk with a reduced amount of lactose also exists. Lactose is a disaccharide derived from the condensation of galactose and glucose, which form a β-1→4 glycosidic linkage. Its systematic name is β-.
Disaccharides are a simple-sugar form of carbohydrate made up of two linked monosaccharides, of which there are three: glucose, fructose, and galactose. Examples include table sugar or sucrose, which is glucose linked to fructose, and milk sugar or lactose, which is glucose linked to galactose. Disaccharides may also be formed by two of the same monosaccharides bonding to each other. Maltose, for instance, is a pair of glucose molecules. Sources include sugar beets and sugar cane, which produce sucrose, a sugar found in everything from baked goods to pasta sauce. They can be found in milk, yogurt, and other dairy products, which contain lactose, and grains and beer, which contain maltose. Also known as a biose, a disaccharide is a quick-digesting form of carbohydrate that the body uses for immediate energy
Lactose is found in dairy foods such as milk, cheese, yogurt, butter and ice cream. Foods made with milk, such as whipping cream, pudding, custard and cream soups, also contain lactose. Glucose + Galactose = Lactose. Lactose is also known as milk sugar. It provides bulk to certain foods, and it's the least sweet of all the sugars, according to Georgia Jones, a food specialist writing for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.
Disaccharides contain two monosaccharides (di=two) bonded together, and include sugars such as lactose (milk sugar), sucrose (table sugar), maltose and isomaltose (sugars formed from the breakdown of starch). Carbohydrates are are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, which are arranged into small units called sugars, or monosaccharides. Small carbohydrates, like glucose or sucrose (table sugar) are composed of one or two sugar units, respectively, and are the molecules that give food a sweet taste.
Definition of sugar: A sugar is a carbohydrate that is soluble in water Sugars are usually crystalline and have a sweet taste. Chemicals that are sugars often have names ending in -ose. For example, note the suffix -ose in fructose, glucose, galactose, sucrose, lactose, and maltose. 
Disaccharides. Disaccharides are compounds that contain a bond between carbon(1) of one sugar and a hydroxyl group at any position on the other sugar. Disaccharides are sugars containing two hexose units, such as sucrose in cane sugar, maltose in malt sugar and lactose in milk sugar. 
Lactose and other disaccharides intolerances-Dr Janice Joneja. An intolerance to disaccharides (two sugars (saccharides) bound together), of which the best known is lactose intolerance, is caused by an impairment to the breakdown and absorption of certain sugars.