The most light weight and efficient chicken tractor is made from a wood frame with chicken wire around the sides and the top to allow for freedom of movement and fresh air to come in. Never put mesh wire on the bottom of the tractor because the chickens need unobstructed access to the soil. I always suggest adding doors for easy access to feeding as well as moving the chickens in and out. You will see that I have added a tarp to the top of the tractor which will provide shade. In the video, I show you how to make my version of a chicken tractor that fits into a raised bed. I house my chickens on the raised bed once all of the vegetables have been harvested for the year.
Because of the number of chicken killers in my area, I did put wire on the bottom. My plans are for 4 or 5 hens and 1 rooster. I have a system of movement that uses a 23hp tractor.
If you add wire under the chickens it will be very hard to move the tractor. The wire will drag on the ground and the chickens legs could get caught if their feet go through the holes in the wire.
Closing the DOORS on this project! “4 pieces of wood – make a box and that’s it!”. Which is really all you have to do to make the two doors that I suggest for your chicken tractor; one in the front and one near the back.
It isn't a perfect tractor, but sturdy and sound. On the first night I didn't do anything really to protect them and something dug under the side and got 5 of them. So that next night I put chicken wire around the outside and put 2x6 or 2x10 around the outside to hold the extra wire down.
I basically live surrounded by woods and my dog is not a very good chicken dog yet. When I built my tractor I new I was going to put wire on bottom to make it Fort Knox. It is true we have to pick it up and move it while the birds are free ranging but in 3 months I haven't lost one of the 15 birds that live there.
Our thought is to tip the chicken tractor and cover the entire bottom with chicken wire so the chickens are walking on the chicken wire that would be directly on the grass.