While asexual reproduction only involves one organism, sexual reproduction requires both a male and a female. Some plants and unicellular organisms reproduce asexually. Most mammals and fish use sexual reproduction. Some organisms like corals and komodo dragons can reproduce either sexually or asexually. Sexual reproduction is reproduction that requires a male and a female of the same species to contribute genetic material. Special cells called gametes are produced through meiosis, which halves the number of chromosomes in each resulting cell.
There is also asexual reproduction, which is a type of reproduction in which only one parent is involved. This is how the bacteria cell reproduces. With asexual reproduction, all of the genes come from a single parent, so the offspring are genetically identical to the parent. 
Reproduction (or procreation) is the biological process by which new individual organisms – offspring – are produced from their parents. Reproduction is a fundamental feature of all known life; each individual organism exists as the result of reproduction. There are two forms of reproduction: asexual and sexual. Sexual reproduction is a biological process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two organisms in a process that starts with meiosis, a specialized type of cell division. Each of two parent organisms contributes half of the offspring's genetic makeup by creating haploid gametes.
In animals, this can occur in two primary ways: through asexual reproduction and through sexual reproduction. Let's look at asexual reproduction. In asexual reproduction, one individual produces offspring that are genetically identical to itself. These offspring are produced by mitosis. There are many invertebrates, including sea stars and sea anemones for example, that produce by asexual reproduction. Common forms of asexual reproduction include: 
Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaebacteria, eubacteria, and protists. Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants.
Asexual reproduction is reproduction without sex. In this form of reproduction, a single organism or cell makes a copy of itself. The genes of the original and its copy will be the same, except for rare mutations. They are clones. Types of Asexual Reproduction. A cell splitting and becoming two cells (overview)Some organisms like bacteria reproduce using binary fission. They split in two, so one bacterium becomes two bacteria. This always leads to daughter cells, and the offspring will be identical to the parent.
Asexual reproduction in liverworts: a caducous phylloid germinating. Asexual reproduction is a mode of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single organism, and inherit the genes of that parent only; it does not involve the fusion of gametes and almost never changes the number of chromosomes. Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants.
In asexual reproduction, an organism can reproduce without the involvement of another organism. Asexual reproduction is not limited to single-celled organisms. The cloning of an organism is a form of asexual reproduction. Sexual reproduction is a biological process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two organisms in a process that starts with meiosis, a specialized type of cell division. Each of two parent organisms contributes half of the offspring's genetic makeup by creating haploid gametes.
* when offspring are produced from a single parent, it is called asexual reproduction * the offspring are identical to the parent! By cell division, one cell divides to become two. This process is used by some organisms, such as protozoans, to reproduce. TYPES OF ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION. * carried out by unicellular organisms, many lower animals, and many plants * asexual reproduction IS mitosis * offspring are identical to the parents * the process is usually rapid and results in a large number of offspring * there are several types of asexual reproduction.
Cell division in asexual and sexual reproduction. Sexual reproduction is reproduction that requires a male and a female of the same species to contribute genetic material. Special cells called gametes are produced through meiosis, which halves the number of chromosomes in each resulting cell.