1. Find and name the longest continuous carbon chain. 2. Identify and name groups attached to this chain. 3. Number the chain consecutively, starting at the end nearest a substituent group. 4. Designate the location of each substituent group by an appropriate number and name. The following table lists the IUPAC names assigned to simple continuous-chain alkanes from C-1 to C-10. A common ane suffix identifies these compounds as alkanes. Longer chain alkanes are well known, and their names may be found in many reference and text books.
: carbon is the principle element. A functional group is any atom, group of atoms or organization of bonds that determines specific properties of an organic molecule. The functional group generally is the most reactive part of a molecule and gives the molecule predictable characteristics. 
Benzene is an important organic chemical compound with the chemical formula C 6 H 6. Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom. The most common reactions of benzene involve substitution of a proton by other groups. Electrophilic aromatic substitution is a general method of derivatizing benzene. Benzene is sufficiently nucleophilic that it undergoes substitution by acylium ions and alkyl carbocations to give substituted derivatives.
The IUPAC nomenclature of organic chemistry is a systematic method of naming organic chemical compounds as recommended by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). Ideally, every possible organic compound should have a name from which an unambiguous structural formula can be created. Here is a sample molecule with the parent carbons numbered: For simplicity, here is an image of the same molecule, where the hydrogens in the parent chain are removed and the carbons are shown by their numbers: Now, following the above steps: 1  The parent hydrocarbon chain has 23 carbons.
They are prefixed with a number indicating the carbon the group is attached to, counting from the end of the alkane chain. For example, (CH 3) 2 CHCH 3, commonly known as isobutane, is treated as a propane chain with a methyl group bonded to the middle (2) carbon, and given the systematic name 2-methylpropane. Here is a sample molecule with the parent carbons numbered: For simplicity, here is an image of the same molecule, where the hydrogens in the parent chain are removed and the carbons are shown by their numbers: Now, following the above steps: 1  The parent hydrocarbon chain has 23 carbons.
The IUPAC name for pentane is pentane. Pentane is a saturated chain  of five carbon (C) atoms with the formula C5H12. Specifically,  using the IUPAC name, pentane refers to … the n-pentane isomer. The use of this trivial form (acetate for ethanoic acid in general) is so common that this is called a retained IUPAC name.
toluene is a common name-The IUPAC name for toluene is methylbenzene. The use of this trivial form (acetate for ethanoic acid in general) is so common that this is called a retained IUPAC name.
The IUPAC nomenclature system is a set of logical rules devised and used by organic chemists to circumvent problems caused by arbitrary nomenclature. Knowing these rules and given a structural formula, one should be able to write a unique name for every distinct compound. The following table lists the IUPAC names assigned to simple continuous-chain alkanes from C-1 to C-10. A common ane suffix identifies these compounds as alkanes. Longer chain alkanes are well known, and their names may be found in many reference and text books.
Like a methyl or an ethyl group, a phenyl group is always attached to something else. Aromatic compounds with only one group attached to the benzene ring Cases where the name is based on benzene chlorobenzene This is a simple example of a halogen attached to the benzene ring. The name is self-obvious. Benzoic acid is the older name, but is still in common use-it's a lot easier to say and write than the modern alternative! Whatever you call it, it has a carboxylic acid group, -COOH,
IUPAC Rules for Cycloalkane Nomenclature 1. For a monosubstituted cycloalkane the ring supplies the root name (table above) and the substituent group is named as usual. A location number is unnecessary. 2. If the alkyl substituent is large and/or complex, the ring may be named as a substituent group on an alkane. 3. The following table lists the IUPAC names assigned to simple continuous-chain alkanes from C-1 to C-10. A common ane suffix identifies these compounds as alkanes. Longer chain alkanes are well known, and their names may be found in many reference and text books.