6. Black mamba. The fastest snake in the world is also one of the deadliest. The black mamba (Dendroaspis polylepis) can move at speeds of up to 12.5 miles per hour (5.5 meters per second), and its bite can kill a human being in less than 30 minutes. Wondering which snake can bring down an elephant? The king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah) delivers enough neurotoxins to kill an Asian elephant, as well as about 50 percent of the humans it bites. Reaching 18 feet (5.5 meters) in length, the king cobra is also the world's longest venomous snake.
1. The Inland Taipan is an Australian native and is considered to be the most poisonous snake in the world. It is also known as small-scaled and fierce snake that can reach a total length of 2.5 metres. Although it is timid and reclusive, but the venom from one bite possesses enough punch to drop 100 fully grown men. 5. Black Mamba –. Black Mamba is the longest snake in Africa, reaching up to 4.5 meters in length. It is also the fastest snake in the world, capable of travelling a distance of 20 km in less than an hour. This deadliest snake has got its name not from its skin color but from the black color of the inside of its mouth.
The Inland taipan (Oxyuranus microlepidotus) is considered the most venomous snake in the world with a murine LD50 value of 0.025 mg/kg SC. Ernst and Zug et al. 1996 list a value of 0.01 mg/kg SC, which makes it the most venomous snake in the world in their study too. List of dangerous snakes is an overview of the snakes that pose a significant health risk to humans, through snakebites or other physical trauma. The varieties of snake that most often cause serious snakebites depends on the region of the world.
When discussing lists of the world’s deadliest snakes, most people use just one criterion and do not to take into account other significant factors. As a result, many Top 10 lists tend to be inaccurate or, at the very least, skewed. Australian Brown Snake More. (Pseudonaja textilis) | Australia. Its venom is reputed to be the second most toxic in the world. They cause the most snakebite deaths in Australia - 1/14,000 of an ounce of this venom is enough to kill a person.
The Belchers Sea Snake. The Belcher's Sea Snake is the deadliest and most venomous snake in the world. A snake that stretches over six feet, this snake's venom is about six times more powerful than that of the deadliest cobra. One bite and you will be done in about twenty minutes. 
Firstly, snakes are not poisonous; they are venomous (poison is ingested, venom is injected). The Belcher's sea snake (Hydrophis Belcheri) is probably the most venomous, though testing is imperfect and we don't know for sure. The Beaked seasnake (Enhydrina schistosa) is another candidate. The Inland Tiapan (Oxyuranus microlepidotus) is also cited regularly, but is probably only the most venomous land snake (the other two being sea snakes). Contrary to the previous post on here, the black mamba (Dendroaspis polylepis) is not the most venomous snake. It's not even close.
It has the most toxic venom of any land snake in the world. The maximum yield recorded for one bite is 110mg, enough to kill about 100 humans, or 250,000 mice! With an LD/50 of 0.03mg/kg, it is 10 times as venomous as the Mojave Rattlesnake, and 50 times more than the common Cobra. Vipers are found throughout most of the world, but arguably the most venomous is the Saw Scaled Viper and the Chain Viper, found primarily in the Middle East and Central Asia, particularly India, China and South East Asia.
Snake's Toxic Rank 10: Jararacussu is the world's No.10 venomous snake. Snake's Characteristics: Jararacussu may inject a whopping 800 mg of venom per bite. Its single bite has the potential to kill 32 people. Snake's Habitat: Jararacussus are often found in a spiral state hanging on trees. 1 'Oxyuranus Microlepidotus' or 'Inland Taipan' is most venomous land snake in the world. ' 2 Ophiophagus Hannah' or 'King Cobra' or 'Hamadryad' seems most intelligent, huge, gaint and longest (3.65-4.5 metres in length) venomous snake of all. ' 3 Black Mamba' is fastest moving (16-19 km/hr) venomous
The king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah) is the longest venomous snake in the world. Its bite delivers a tremendous amount of paralysis-inducing neurotoxins. The snake’s venom is so strong and so voluminous that it can kill an elephant in just a few hours. 