In England David is not to be found before the Norman Conquest (1066). Its popularity was increased in Britain firstly by virtue of its being the name of the patron saint of Wales, and secondly because it was borne by two kings of Scotland. The diminutive form Daukyn is noted in the Subsidy Rolls of Lancashire (1332). The surname is first recorded in the mid 14th Century (see below) and can also be found as Dawkes and Daukes
This interesting surname is of early medieval English origin, and is a patronymic of Dawkin, itself a diminutive of Daw, a pet form of the male given name David. David is a Hebrew name meaning beloved. Its popularity was increased in Britain firstly by virtue of its being the name of the patron saint of Wales, and secondly because it was borne by two kings of Scotland. The diminutive form Daukyn is noted in the Subsidy Rolls of Lancashire (1332).
You can find out where the majority of the Dawkins families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Dawkins birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
Dawkins at RootsWeb databases. Dawkins in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Dawkins genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Dawkins surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Welcome to some of the best Dawkins genealogy resources found on the web. We hope you will participate on the Dawkins forums, it is a great place to find or post information on Dawkins genealogy and is completely free to participate.
©Copyright 2004 - 2015 Meaning-of-Names.com-Powered by Swigity, LLC Meaning of Dawkins Last Name-Surname-Family Name Dawkins. 
Dawkins is an English surname. It is a compound of 'Daw', a common diminutive of 'David' during the Middle Ages, and Kin; literally the kin of David . It has also been linked with the Keynes family as a derivative name. It may refer to: 1  Benjamin C. Dawkins, Jr. (1911–1984), US District Judge in Louisiana. 2  Benjamin C. Dawkins, Sr. (1881–1966), US District Judge in Louisiana. 3  Boyd Dawkins (full name Maynard Boyd Dawkins) South Australian sheep breeder and politician. 1 Cecil Dawkins (born 1927), North American author, also known for her personal correspondence with Flannery O'Connor. 2  Sir Clinton Edward Dawkins (1859–1905), British businessman and civil servant.
[ 2 syll. daw-kin(s) , da-wki-ns ] The baby boy name Dawkins is pronounced D AO KihNZ †. Dawkins is of English-American origin. It is not listed in the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Dawkins include Daukins, Dae-Jung (Korean), Decimus (English), Deens, Dickens, Diogenes, Diógenes, Dagnea, Damascus, Decimos, Demissee, Demissey, Demissi, Demissie, Demissy, Dezmea (Dionis), Spanish (Dionys), German (Domingos), Portuguese, domonic And. domonick
Click on a circle in the chart to view Dawkins immigration records. You can find out when most of the Dawkins families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Dawkins birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Richard Daukyns, which was dated 1354, witness in the Assize Court Rolls of Staffordshire, during the reign of King Edward 111, known as The Father of the Navy, 1327 - 1377. Its popularity was increased in Britain firstly by virtue of its being the name of the patron saint of Wales, and secondly because it was borne by two kings of Scotland. The diminutive form Daukyn is noted in the Subsidy Rolls of Lancashire (1332).