Join us in unearthing the prehistory of Prince George’s County at Dinosaur Park. The park is a unique site in Laurel, Maryland, which preserves a rare deposit of fossils from the early Cretaceous period, about 115 million years ago.
PLEASE NOTE: The main parking lot at Dinosaur State Park will be repaved over the next few weeks starting October 12, 2015 and continuing until early November. During that time the main lot will be closed to the public on Mondays. Anyone wishing to hike the trails on Mondays may use the employee parking lot.
6,307 pages on this wiki. The Dinosaur Park is situated on Sir Robert Norramby 's estate at Ulfstead. The park was constructed with the help of Harvey, Samson and Millie. As well as many animatronic dinosaurs, there is a model of a volcano in the park.
Surrounding our Exhibit Center are more than two miles of nature trails and the Dinosaur State Park Arboretum, containing more than 250 species and cultivars of conifers, as well as katsuras, ginkgoes, magnolias and other living representatives of plant families which appeared in the Age of Dinosaurs.
Dinosaur Park is located on a ridge of sandstone that encircles the Black Hills. Along this ridge dinosaurs of the Late Jurassic and Early Cretaceous have been found. Not far from the park dinosaur footprint
While most museums have dinosaur skeletons, our realistic life-size dinosaur replicas show skin and color variations to give a better understanding as to how they looked when alive. These statues range in size from the 2-foot long Compsognathus to the 85-foot long Brachiosaurus.
Here you'll find, a great variety of Dinosaur Toys, Fossils, Apparel, Games and many more dinosaur items. The real store is located inside the Dinosaur Park in Cedar Creek Texas, along with life size dinosaur replicas on display throughout nature trails.
Other activities include a fossil-dig, playground, picnic area, and a wonderful Dinosaur Store stocked with a variety of gifts sure to please any dinosaur fan! Thanks for visiting our website! Subscribe to our email list for updates on The Dinosaur Park, using the following link: Dinosaur Park Updates.