Can rainbows make a full-circle?If you could get up high enough in the sky, then you'd see that some rainbows continue below the horizon. That's because when the sun and rain combine to make a rainbow, they really make a full-circle rainbow. We can't see all of the circle, because the horizon blocks it from our view. Rainbows are spectacular rays of color. Sunlight looks white, but it's really made up of different colors...red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. The sun makes rainbows when white sunlight passes through rain drops.
Overview. A rainbow of ribbons magically appear when you open the pages of this innovative book! Toddlers will love listening to the charming story and seeing a different colored ribbon with the turn of each page. The last page is sure to delight with all the colors of the rainbow. What a fun way to learn colors! Advertising. View All Available Formats & Editions. A rainbow of ribbons magically appear when you open the pages of this innovative book! Toddlers will love listening to the charming story and seeing a different colored ribbon with the turn of each page. The last page is sure to delight with all the colors of the rainbow.
A rainbow is an arc of spectral colors, usually identified as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, that appears in the sky opposite the sun as a result of the refractive dispersion of sunlight in drops of rain or mist. You can make your own rainbow using one of the various methods listed below. Ad. 1 A rainbow seen in nature from the ground has an arc too big to see the entire circle as it is a mile or more away, but a rainbow you mist your self is only a couple of feet away, and is small enough to make a complete circle.
A rainbow is a meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection, refraction and dispersion of light in water droplets resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky. It takes the form of a multicoloured arc. Rainbows caused by sunlight always appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun. This rainbow is caused by light being refracted when entering a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it. In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, and has the order of its colours reversed, with red on the inner side of the arc.
A secondary rainbow appears if the sunlight is reflected twice inside the water droplets. Secondary rainbows are fainter, and the order of the color is reversed, with red on the bottom. Sometimes you can see another, fainter secondary rainbow above the primary rainbow. If you had no idea at all about what a rainbow is or what causes it, you might actually believe some of the legends that different ancient cultures have created to explain it. Rainbows are among the most beautiful of nature’s displays. Rainbow at Suuroy, Faroese Islands.
The droplets are round and it is the way that the sun’s rays hit the droplets that causes the colours of the light to spread out in an arc. What makes the colours in the rainbow? Sunlight always looks white but in fact, is made up of seven colours-red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet. The rainbow is a whole band of colours and goes even beyond the colours that the eye can see.
Rainbows appearing during the rain after the rains or due to mist are a beautiful natural phenomena. One can see the beautiful seven colors that it comprise, across the sky after or during the rain and when the sun is present as well. 1 When sunlight passes through these raindrops at a specific angle, the light gets split into the spectrum, which is made up of the various colors. 2  And thus, we get to see this lovely sight. 3  A rainbow similar to music is made of the same stuff, except for vibrating at a different frequency.
Rainbows are caused by the splitting of white sunlight into it component colors by raindrops. Some of the light that falls on a water drop enters the drop. 
In a primary rainbow, the arc shows red on the outer part and violet on the inner side. This rainbow is caused by light being refracted when entering a droplet of water, then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it. In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, and has the order of its colours reversed, with red on the inner side of the arc.