Sarcoidosis facts. 1  Sarcoidosis is a disease that causes inflammation of body tissues. 2  The cause of sarcoidosis is not known. 3  Sarcoidosis commonly affects the lungs and skin. 4  Diagnosis is suggested by the patient's medical history, routine tests, a physical examination, and a chest X-ray.
Sarcoidosis is a disease that results from a specific type of inflammation of tissues of the body. It can appear in almost any body organ, but it starts most often in the lungs or lymph nodes. The cause of sarcoidosis is unknown. The disease can appear suddenly and disappear.
Sarcoidosis is an inflammatory disease that affects one or more organs but most commonly affects the lungs and lymph glands. As a result of the inflammation, abnormal lumps or nodules (called granulomas) form in one or more organs of the body.
Sarcoidosis is an inflammatory disease where granulomas (clumps of immune cells, usually macrophages) form in various organs. This causes organ inflammation. Doctors believe that sarcoidosis may be caused by an abnormal immune system reaction.
Sarcoidosis is a chronic disease that affects multiple systems in the body, from the eyes to the lungs to the brain. It is characterized by the buildup of immune system cells in organs that form small clusters called granulomas, a type of inflammation of the involved tissues.
1 Sarcoidosis is a disease that causes inflammation of body tissues. 2  The cause of sarcoidosis is not known. 3  Sarcoidosis commonly affects the lungs and skin. 4  Diagnosis is suggested by the patient's medical history, routine tests, a physical examination, and a chest X-ray.
Sarcoid: Introduction. Also called sarcoidosis, it is a disorder characterized by the formation of small inflammatory nodules (granulomas). The nodules can occur just about anywhere in the body but the lungs (lung sarcoidosis), skin (skin sarcoidosis) and lymph nodes are usually the most common locations.
Sarcoidosis (sar-koy-DO-sis) is a disease of unknown cause that leads to inflammation. This disease affects your body's organs. Normally, your immune system defends your body against foreign or harmful substances. For example, it sends special cells to protect organs that are in danger.