Up to now, PPIs, widely recognized as being the most efficacious treatment of heartburn, were only available through prescription in Canada. OLEX TM offers consistent and effective acid control providing daytime and night time heartburn relief for millions of Canadian sufferers. OLEX TM will be available behind the counter, so if you are looking for OLEX TM, simply ask your pharmacist. OLEX: A helpful guide (hyperlink) At www.OLEX24.ca, heartburn sufferers can access a wealth of information about heartburn, its causes and treatment.
MONTREAL, Montréal. sept, 17 /2014 Cnw/ - Telbec, pendopharm is pleased to announce the launch OF OLEX (tm omeprazole-delayed release), tablets the first and only-non prescription proton pump (INHIBITOR) ppi available In canada for the treatment of frequent, heartburn.i. e heartburn that occurs two or more days a. week Non-prescription omeprazole delayed-release tablets have been available in the USA for more than 10 years. In Canada, pharmacists are very familiar with omeprazole as it has been available by prescription for many years.
It stops acid production at the source, the acid pump inside your stomach that produces acid. OLEX is the first and only non-prescription PPI available in Canada! *Frequent heartburn occurs 2 or more days a week. OLEX stops acid production at the source, the acid pump inside your stomach that produces acid. OLEX, the 1st non-prescription (OTC) proton pump inhibitor in Canada, works differently from other OTC heartburn products, such as antacids and acid...
OLEX TM provides 24-hour heartburn relief, is well tolerated and offers convenient dosing with one pill a day for 14 days. Non-prescription omeprazole delayed-release tablets have been available in the USA for more than 10 years. OLEX TM will be available behind the counter, so if you are looking for OLEX TM, simply ask your pharmacist. OLEX: A helpful guide (hyperlink) At www.OLEX24.ca, heartburn sufferers can access a wealth of information about heartburn, its causes and treatment.
Latest generation effective relief of frequent heartburn available without a prescription! OLEX is the first non-prescription PPI (proton pump inhibitor) in Canada that relieves frequent heartburn (≥ 2 days a week).* With one tablet per day for 14 days, you can enjoy effective relief from your heartburn! OLEX, the 1st non-prescription (OTC) proton pump inhibitor in Canada, works differently from other OTC heartburn products, such as antacids and acid...
OLEX TM provides 24-hour heartburn relief, is well tolerated and offers convenient dosing with one pill a day for 14 days. Non-prescription omeprazole delayed-release tablets have been available in the USA for more than 10 years. In Canada, pharmacists are very familiar with omeprazole as it has been available by prescription for many years. OLEX TM will be available behind the counter, so if you are looking for OLEX TM, simply ask your pharmacist
Up to now, PPIs, widely recognized as being the most efficacious treatment of heartburn, were only available through prescription in Canada. OLEX TM offers consistent and effective acid control providing daytime and night time heartburn relief for millions of Canadian sufferers. OLEX TM starts to reduce acid production in just a few short hours. Some people will experience complete relief within 24 hours, although for others, it may take three to five days to feel the full effect of OLEX TM.
OLEX TM provides 24-hour heartburn relief, is well tolerated and offers convenient dosing with one pill a day for 14 days. Non-prescription omeprazole delayed-release tablets have been available in the USA for more than 10 years. In Canada, pharmacists are very familiar with omeprazole as it has been available by prescription for many years. OLEX TM starts to reduce acid production in just a few short hours. Some people will experience complete relief within 24 hours, although for others, it may take three to five days to feel the full effect of OLEX TM.
Pendopharm, is pleased to announce the launch of OLEX TM (omeprazole delayed-release tablets), the first and only non-prescription proton pump inhibitor (PPI) available in Canada for the treatment of frequent heartburn, i.e. heartburn that occurs two or more days a week. OLEX TM starts to reduce acid production in just a few short hours. Some people will experience complete relief within 24 hours, although for others, it may take three to five days to feel the full effect of OLEX TM.