954,969 Contributions. Cod fish is bad if: it has yellow spots and transparent parts on the surface instead of an even, light surface.there is a coating of slime on the surface; the surface should b … e shiny and dry.it has a sharp, strong odor; sea fish should have a fresh, neutral, or weak odor. If the catfish has a strong fishy smell, it has gone bad. You can  also tell by looking at it, if you see areas that appear  discolored, it is likely bad. Finally, press on … it, fresh fish  should bounce back and not feel squishy. 1 person found this useful
1 Shiny and dry surface-when it starts going bad, it gets a slimy greyish coating. 2  Fresh odour-it can also smell like melon or cucumber. 3  If it's bad, it will smell rotten, like a sour dishcloth. 4  An even, light surface-the fish is bad if it has yellow spots and transparent parts on the surface. The fish you buy in the shops isn't always as fresh as it should be. But it can be difficult to ascertain when the fish actually starts going bad. Today's methods of ensuring freshness aren't good enough because they only measure one indicator of whether the fish is fresh, such as texture, smell or colour.
Acklam. Cod is not a smelly fish. Fresh fish doesn't smell so you would notice it driving home from the store and certainly not stink up your freezer. We give dogs time we can spare, space we can spare and love we can spare. And in return, dogs give us their all. It's the best deal man has ever made. -M. 
Something Smells Fishy. Although it may seem counter intuitive because salmon is a type of fish, if it's still edible, it should not smell unpleasantly fishy in any way. If your salmon smells somewhat sour or anything like ammonia, it has gone bad and you need to toss it. Fresh salmon has a mild aroma, or one that smells similar to the sea. 
Best Answer: I would say by the color of it and the smell is very strong. If the fish is not as white or pink but more of a beige turning brownish color should tell you. For me, when it comes to fish, if its not cooked the day its thawed I wouldn't eat it. Source(s):
Unfortunately it's also a spectacularly perishable food, and just a day or two in your refrigerator -- or an unplanned stop on your way home from the store -- can spoil your meal. You can often detect bad fish easily by smell or touch, but that's not always the case. 
1 An even, light surface-the fish is bad if it has yellow spots and transparent parts on the surface. 2  Shiny and dry surface-bad fish has a coating of slime on the surface. 3  Fresh odour-sea-fresh, or neutral to weak odour. 4  The fish is starting to go bad if it has a sharp, strong odour. The fish you buy in the shops isn't always as fresh as it should be. But it can be difficult to ascertain when the fish actually starts going bad. Today's methods of ensuring freshness aren't good enough because they only measure one indicator of whether the fish is fresh, such as texture, smell or colour.
Confidence votes 84.7K. Cod fish is bad if: 1  it has yellow spots and transparent parts on the surface instead of an even, light surface. 2  there is a coating of slime on the surface; the surface should be shiny and dry. If the catfish has a strong fishy smell, it has gone bad. You can  also tell by looking at it, if you see areas that appear  discolored, it is likely bad. Finally, press on … it, fresh fish  should bounce back and not feel squishy. 1 person found this useful