$53,208,180. Arachnophobia is a 1990 American comedy horror film directed by Frank Marshall, starring Jeff Daniels and John Goodman. It is about deadly spiders infesting a small California town, with the title referring to the fear of spiders. It was the very first film released by Hollywood Pictures. 
Initial symptoms of arachnophobia or the fear of spiders may appear in one’s childhood or adolescence. However, following a traumatic episode, some or all of the following symptoms may be present at all ages when the sufferer is confronted with the object of the phobia, in this case, a spider. The exact causes of Arachnophobia are different for different people: 1  For some people, it is a learned response: they learn to fear spiders after having seen others being fearful. 2  An imbalance in brain chemicals may be linked with Arachnophobia.
Arachnophobia, the irrational fear of spiders, is one of the most common types of phobias. Learn more about the symptoms, causes and treatment of arachnophobia. The symptoms of arachnophobia are triggered by seeing a spider or something that indicates spiders are nearby, such as webs or egg sacs. For some, looking at pictures of spiders or hearing someone talk about spiders is enough to trigger symptoms. These symptoms can include:
Arachnophobia or the fear of spiders is the oldest and most common phobia in the Western culture. The word Arachnophobia is derived from the Greek word ‘arachne’ meaning spiders. The response to spiders shown by an arachnophobic individual may seem irrational to others and often to the sufferer himself. The exact causes of Arachnophobia are different for different people: 1  For some people, it is a learned response: they learn to fear spiders after having seen others being fearful. 2  An imbalance in brain chemicals may be linked with Arachnophobia.
Find a Top Private Arachnophobia Treatment Program. Phobias are irrational fears of specific events, things, or situations, and arachnophobia – the fear of spiders – is one of the most common phobias there is. 
This article is about the specific phobia. For other uses, see Arachnophobia (disambiguation) . Arachnophobia or arachnephobia (from the Greek: ἀράχνη, arachnē, aráchnē spider and, φόβος, phobos) phóbos fear is a, specific phobia the fear of spiders and other arachnids such. as scorpions People with arachnophobia tend to feel uneasy in any area they believe could harbor spiders or that has visible signs of their presence, such as webs. If arachnophobics see a spider, they may not enter the general vicinity until they have overcome the panic attack that is often associated with their phobia.
Arachnophobia is a 1990 American horror film directed by Frank Marshall and starring Jeff Daniels and John Goodman. Ross, along with his son Tommy, has arachnophobia, making them targets of ridicule to wife Molly (Harley Jane Kozak) and daughter Shelly (Marlene Katz). Ross' first patient, Margaret Hollins (Mary Carver), dies after being bitten.
Arachnophobia or arachnephobia (from the Greek: ἀράχνη, arachnē, aráchnē spider and, φόβος, phobos) phóbos fear is a, specific phobia the fear of spiders and other arachnids such. As. scorpions contents People with arachnophobia tend to feel uneasy in any area they believe could harbor spiders or that has visible signs of their presence, such as webs. If arachnophobics see a spider, they may not enter the general vicinity until they have overcome the panic attack that is often associated with their phobia.
Scientists who have studied this fear of spiders explain it to be a result of evolutionary selection. This means that Arachnophobia is an evolutionary response, since spiders, especially the venomous ones, have always been associated with infections and disease. The exact causes of Arachnophobia are different for different people: 1  For some people, it is a learned response: they learn to fear spiders after having seen others being fearful. 2  An imbalance in brain chemicals may be linked with Arachnophobia.