Presently, post-ganglionic sudomotor function is assessed by means of QSART or silicone impressions. Quantitative direct and indirect reflex testing is a technique for assessing post-ganglionic sudomotor function. Aetna considers autonomic testing experimental and investigational for all other indications (e.g., chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis, Raynaud phenomenon, and predicting foot ulcers) because its effectiveness for indications other than the ones listed above has not been established.
Sudomotor Testing. Sudomotor dysfunction is one of the earliest detectable neurophysiologic abnormalities in distal small fiber neuropathy. Sudomotor is a simple 2 minute test used to evaluate postganglionic sympathetic cholinergic sudomotor function by measuring the axon-reflex mediated galvanic sweat response. The sudomotor test is done with the use of two hand electrodes & 2 feet electrodes as a stand alone test or in conjunction with ANS testing. Stimulation of sweat production is measured by the change in humidity for a period of 2 minutes
Testing of autonomic nervous system function; sudomotor, including 1 or more of the following: quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test (QSART), silastic sweat imprint, thermoregulatory sweat test, and changes in sympathetic skin potential. The quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test (QSART) evaluates integrity of postganglionic neurons using iontophoresis; electrodes filled with acetylcholine are placed on the legs and wrist to stimulate sweat glands, and the volume of sweat is then measured.
Quantitative Sudomotor Axon Reflex Test (QSART) is a test to evaluate the integrity of the postganglionic sudomotor system along the axon reflex to define the distribution of sweat loss. This is accomplished by the release of acetycholine into the skin which activates receptors on the eccrine sweat gland. The QSART is a test that measures the autonomic nerves that control sweating. The test is useful in assessing autonomic nervous system disorders, peripheral neuropathies and some types of pain disorders.
QSART. The QSART is a test that measures the autonomic nerves that control sweating. The test is useful in assessing autonomic nervous system disorders, peripheral neuropathies and some types of pain disorders. The test requires a mild electrical stimulation on the skin called iontophoresis, which allows acetylcholine, a naturally occurring chemical, to stimulate sweat glands. The technician will discuss the steps of the test and any questions you may have. You will be asked to remove your shoes and socks. The technician will wipe the skin on your leg and wrist with acetone, alcohol, then a tissue to wipe it dry.
Sudomotor testing has data to suggest it may be the most sensitive means to detect a peripheral small fiber neuropathy (Low, et al., 2006). Hoitsma et al (2003) reported that sympathetic skin responses testing appeared to be of little value in diagnosing small-fiber neuropathy in patients with sarcoidosis. Aetna considers autonomic testing experimental and investigational for all other indications (e.g., chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis, Raynaud phenomenon, and predicting foot ulcers) because its effectiveness for indications other than the ones listed above has not been established.
The quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test (QSART) has been a routine postganglionic sudomotor function clinical laboratory test since 1983. QSART is a test designed to evaluate the integrity of the postganglionic sympathetic axons. At regional test sites, multicompartmental sweat cells are attached to the limbs. The QSART is a test that measures the autonomic nerves that control sweating. The test is useful in assessing autonomic nervous system disorders, peripheral neuropathies and some types of pain disorders.