There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. Veins can be classified as pulmonary veins and systemic veins. The pulmonary veins are a set of veins that deliver oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart and the Systemic veins drain the tissues of the body and deliver deoxygenated blood to the heart.
Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein). Veins can be classified as pulmonary veins and systemic veins. The pulmonary veins are a set of veins that deliver oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart and the Systemic veins drain the tissues of the body and deliver deoxygenated blood to the heart.
Types of arteries and veins. There are two types of arteries in the body: Pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart, to the lungs, for purification while the systemic arteries form a network of arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to other parts of the body. Veins can be classified as pulmonary veins and systemic veins. The pulmonary veins are a set of veins that deliver oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart and the Systemic veins drain the tissues of the body and deliver deoxygenated blood to the heart.
Overview. Veins are blood vessels that carry blood from your body's tissues to your heart. Your heart pumps the blood to your lungs to pick up oxygen. The oxygen-rich blood then is pumped to your body through blood vessels called arteries. From your arteries, the blood flows through tiny blood vessels called capillaries, where it gives up its oxygen to the body's tissues. Your blood then returns to your heart through your veins to pick up more oxygen.
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). The cardiovascular system of the head and neck includes the vital arteries that provide oxygenated blood to the brain and organs of the head, including the mouth and eyes. It also includes the veins that return deoxygenated blood from these organs to the heart.
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow. The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body.
In closed circulatory system blood is circulated through closed vessels such as arteries, veins and capillaries. 1. Vessels which carry blood from the heart to various body parts. 2. Arteries carry oxygenated blood from the heart except pulmonary artery. 1. Vessels which carry blood from the various body parts to the heart. 2. Veins carry deoxygenated blood from the various body parts except pulmonary vein. 3. Veins have thin non elastic walls. 4. Valves are present to prevent the backward flow of blood.
The Circulatory System. Veins, arteries and capillaries are the three types of blood vessels in the circulatory system. The blood vessels carry blood, which contains antibodies, nutrients, oxygen, electrolytes and hormones, throughout the body to be used by the organs. Blood contains oxygen and nutrients the body needs to survive. The arteries, veins and capillaries are types of blood vessels that transport the vital blood throughout the body. Learn the differences between the types of blood vessels.
Arteries. All blood vessels leading from the heart are called arteries or the blood vessels which carry blood from the heart to various body organs are called arteries. All arteries carry oxygenated blood (pure blood) except pulmonary artery, which carries deoxygenated blood. 1. Vessels which carry blood from the various body parts to the heart. 2. Veins carry deoxygenated blood from the various body parts except pulmonary vein. 3. Veins have thin non elastic walls. 4. Valves are present to prevent the backward flow of blood.