Contact Info for J.K. Rowling. Jo Rowling requests that you write her via her publishers: J.K. Rowling. c/o Bloomsbury Publishing. 38 Soho Square. London W1V 5DF. United Kingdom. U.S. publishers: J.K. Rowling. c/o Scholastic. 555 Broadway. New York, NY 10012. Publisher List: The following is a list of J.K. Rowling’s publisher’s around the globe. When applicable, visit the publisher’s Web site for contact info. 
All fan mail, questions and comments for J.K. Rowling should be sent in writing to the address below: J.K. Rowling. C/O Bloomsbury Publishing PLC. 50 Bedford Square. J.K. Rowling very rarely does interviews or public speaking, and when she does they are usually around a new project or charitable commitment. Please note that she does not undertake fee-paying public speaking engagements.
If you want to send Fan Mail to a Harry Potter actor/director/The Queen here are the Fan Mail Addresses. J. K. Rowling: J. K. Rowling. c/o Scholastic Inc. 555 Broadway New York, NY 10012. Or. J. K. Rowling. c/o Bloomsbury Publishing. 38 Soho Square London W1V 5DF. UK. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can reach her through her UK publishers, who pass on every letter they get for her. The address is: J.K.Rowling C/o. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 38 Soho Square London W1D 3HB I understand she is very good at replying to mail. Good Luck! 
C/O Scholastic Books. 555 Broadway. New York, Ny 10012. USA. UK Address: JK Rowling. C/O Bloomsburry Publishing, plc. 38 Soho Square. London, England, W1V5DF. UK. You could send your letter to any of these t … wo addresses: J. K. Rowling c/o Scholastic Inc. 555 Broadway New York, NY 10012 or J. K. Rowling c/o Bloomsbury Publishing 38 Soho Square London W1V 5DF UK  . + 30 others found this useful. Emalee Sickles. Kimberly Harwood-Lapierre
I have searched tirelessly prior to your question for J.K.Rowling's fan mail address; it seems she currently does not uphold one in email form. However, continuing her appreciation of pen and paper over technology, she does reply to many letters sent to her UK publishers: Bloomsbury Publishing building in Soho Square. 
Middle Man. On Rowling's website, she suggests sending fan mail to one of her two publishers in the U.S. or U.K. The publishing house serves as a middle man and forwards mail to the author. For best results, address your letter to J.K. Rowling, c/o Scholastic Inc., 557 Broadway, New York, NY 10012-3999. Rowling admits she can't answer questions or comment on ideas that you include in your letter
How to Contact JK Rowling. JK Rowling is the author of the Harry Potter series of books. She appreciates fan mail, but since she receives so much of it, she has asked that it all be sent via her publishers. Ad. Tips. 1  JK Rowling does not provide a public email address for contact. 2  As with any popular author or celebrity, she cannot answer every item of mail received. 3  For announcements on her upcoming adult book, see http://www.jkrowling.com/ .