The Zebra is an example of a quadruped. Quadrupedalism or pronograde posture is a form of terrestrial locomotion in animals using four limbs or legs. An animal or machine that usually moves in a quadrupedal manner is known as a quadruped, meaning four feet (from the Latin quad for four and ped for foot). A tetrapod is any member of the taxonomic unit Tetrapoda (which is defined by descent from a specific four-limbed ancestor) whereas a quadruped actually uses four limbs for locomotion. Not all tetrapods are quadrupeds and not all quadrupeds are tetrapods.
The root of the word quadruped is ped, which is the latin root word for foot. Edit. Share to: Don Dfoofnik. 1,118,893 Contributions. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. Humans, for instance, have four limbs, but only two of those limbs are used for walking, therefore humans fall into the category of a biped-an animal that uses two legs to travel. Notably, birds are also considered bipedal. The word quadruped is from the Latin words quad (four) and ped (foot).
1. an animal especially a mammal having four limbs specialized for walking. Familiarity information: QUADRUPED used as a noun is very rare. • QUADRUPED (adjective). The adjective QUADRUPED has 1 sense: 1. having four feet. Familiarity information: QUADRUPED used as an adjective is very rare. An animal especially a mammal having four limbs specialized for walking. Classified under: Nouns denoting animals. Hypernyms (quadruped is a kind of...): tetrapod (a vertebrate animal having four feet or legs or leglike appendages).
Although the words quadruped and tetrapod are both derived from terms meaning four-footed, they have distinct meanings. A tetrapod is any member of the taxonomic unit Tetrapoda (which is defined by descent from a specific four-limbed ancestor) whereas a quadruped actually uses four limbs for locomotion. Not all tetrapods are quadrupeds and not all quadrupeds are tetrapods.
quadruped. a four-footed animal. An elephant is a quadruped. Pickwick, as the tall quadruped evinced a decided inclination to back into the coffee-room window. The Posthumous Papers Of The Pickwick Club by Dickens, Charles View in context. It was a magnificent sea-otter, an enhydrus, the only exclusively marine
All of these animals are tetrapods, but none is a quadruped. Even snakes, whose limbs have become vestigial or lost entirely, are nevertheless tetrapods. Most quadrupedal animals are tetrapods but there are a few exceptions. For example, among the insects, the praying mantis is a quadruped. A tetrapod is any member of the taxonomic unit Tetrapoda (which is defined by descent from a specific four-limbed ancestor) whereas a quadruped actually uses four limbs for locomotion. Not all tetrapods are quadrupeds and not all quadrupeds are
A quadruped is an animal that normally walks or runs on four legs. The word comes from the Latin words quad (four) and ped (foot). A quadruped is a land mammal that walks on four feet. The term quadruped has its root in Latin language - quad meaning four, and ped meaning feet - so the term literally means four feet.. Humans, for instance, have four limbs, but only two of those limbs are used for walking, therefore humans fall into the category of a biped-an animal that uses two legs to travel. Notably, birds are also considered bipedal. The word quadruped is from the Latin words quad (four) and ped (foot).
Full Definition of QUADRUPED. : an animal having four feet. Medical Definition of QUADRUPED. : an animal having four feet.