Coelenterates (Phylum Coelenterata or Cnidaria) include jellyfish, anemones, corals, and hydras. The phylum is characterized by a gelatinous body, tentacles, and stinging cells called nemadocysts. Most species are found in marine waters, but some occur in brackish or even fresh water. Coelenterates may be either sessile or free swimming, depending on the species and/or stage of the life-cycle. 
The exclusively aquatic phylum Cnidaria is represented by polyps such as sea anemones and corals, and by medusae such as jellyfish. A polypoid or a medusoid cnidarian is a radially or biradially symmetrical, uncephalized animal with a single body opening, the mouth. Two body forms are characteristic of cnidarians -- the polyp and the medusa. With a few exceptions, a columnar polyp is sedentary, being attached to or burrowed into the substratum by the end opposite the mouth. Thus its tentacles are typically considered to point upward and outward.
KGS Home Fossils Invertebrate Fossils. Corals are part of a group of animals called Cnidaria (nid-AIR-ee-a), also called Coelenterata (sel-EN-ter-AH-ta), which includes sea anemones, corals, jellyfish, and hydras. All of these animals are soft bodied and have multiple arms or tentacles, with which they grab food from the surrounding sea water. 
Box Jellyfish. Phylum Cnidaria. Cnidaria is a large phylum composed of some of the most beautiful of all the salt and freshwater organisms: the true jellyfish, box jellyfish, coral and sea anemones, and hydra. Although Cnidaria is an incredibly diverse group of animals, there are several traits that link them together. 
Cnidaria (nīdar´nīdâr) ēə Or (coelenterata´səlĕntərae) , səlĕntərä tə phylum of invertebrate animals comprising the, sea, anemones, corals jellyfish. And hydroids cnidarians are (radially symmetrical, see). symmetry biological Cnidaria (Coelenterata) Phylum comprising the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, which is known from the late Precambrian. The Ediacaran fauna from southern Australia, from between 680 and 580 Ma ago, includes clearly identifiable jellyfish and their allies. Corals occur for the first time in Ordovician rocks.
Cnidaria is one of the more primitive animal phyla. It includes aquatic organisms such as jellyfish, sea anemones, corals, and hydras. Most cnidarians are marine, although a few, such as the well-known hydra, are freshwater species. Cnidaria (Coelenterata) Phylum comprising the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, which is known from the late Precambrian. The Ediacaran fauna from southern Australia, from between 680 and 580 Ma ago, includes clearly identifiable jellyfish and their allies. Corals occur for the first time in Ordovician rocks.
Coelenterata. (sīlĕn'tərā`tə) , another name for the phylum Cnidaria Cnidariaor Coelenterata, phylum of invertebrate animals comprising the sea anemones, corals, jellyfish, and hydroids. Cnidarians are radially symmetrical (see symmetry, biological)...... Click the link for more information. 
Cnidaria. Cnidaria is a phylum containing over 9,000 species found only in aquatic and mostly marine environments. All cnidarians have radial symmetrical. There are two major body forms among the Cnidaria-the polyp and the medusa. Sea anemones and corals have the polyp form, while jellyfish are typical medusae. When you look at them, you can see that these body forms are the same except that one is upside down.
Jellyfish, corals, and other stingers. Cnidarians are incredibly diverse in form, as evidenced by colonial siphonophores, massive medusae and corals, feathery hydroids, and box jellies with complex eyes. Yet, these diverse animals are all armed with stinging cells called nematocysts. Cnidarians are united based on the presumption that their nematocysts have been inherited from a single common ancestor. The name Cnidaria comes from the Greek word cnidos, which means stinging nettle
Cnidaria A phylum that comprises the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, and which is known from the late Precambrian. Cnidarians are basically radially symmetrical and have tentacles. The body contains a gastrovascular cavity and the body wall is diploblastic. Cnidaria (Coelenterata) Phylum comprising the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, which is known from the late Precambrian. The Ediacaran fauna from southern Australia, from between 680 and 580 Ma ago, includes clearly identifiable jellyfish and their allies. Corals occur for the first time in Ordovician rocks.