Grass snake. Reaching nearly two metres, grass snakes are the UK's largest reptile and our only snake to lay eggs. A grass snake's speed and wariness makes it incredibly difficult to spot, but once cornered it is one of the few animals that play dead as a defence against predators. The Grass snake can be found in a number of locations including: Asia, Europe, Mediterranean, Russia, United Kingdom, Wales, Ynys-hir nature reserve. Find out more about these places and what else lives there.
(Redirected from Grass Snake). This article is about the European grass snake or ringed snake Natrix natrix. Grass snake is also used in North America to refer to the smooth green snake (Opheodrys vernalis) and the rough green snake (O. aestivus). The grass snake (Natrix natrix), sometimes called the ringed snake or 'water snake', is a Eurasian non-venomous snake. It is often found near water and feeds almost exclusively on amphibians. In Great Britain, the grass snake is the largest reptile, reaching up to 190 centimetres (6 ft 3 in) total length, though such large specimens are rare. Females are considerably larger than males, typically reaching a size of 90–110 centimetres (2 ft 11 in–3 ft 7 in) when fully grown.
Read more about Snake Trap. What does snake feces look like-Snake feces look like the feces of many other carnivores. Because snakes eat only other animals, there is little plant fiber in their intestinal tract to created well-formed stool. 
The grass snake is the largest species of British snake, and is identified by its olive green body and darkish spots or streaks on the flanks. However, colouration can vary. Grass snakes have a distinctive yellow and black collar behind the head and have round pupils. They can often be confused with the adder which has a more thick-set body and a distinct zigzag down its back, and it also has a vertically slit pupil. The adder is venomous, whereas the grass snake is not. Found in lowland areas of Britain, the grass snake is widespread and common in some areas of the south and south east of England, absent from Scotland and rare in central Wales. It is absent from Ireland.
The underside of the grass snake is off-white or yellowish with dark triangular or rectangular markings. A characteristic black and yellow collar is present behind the head, which has earned the species the alternative name of 'ringed snake' . The grass snake is found in lowland areas of Britain. It is widespread and common in some areas of the south and south east of England, is absent from Scotland and becomes rare in central Wales. It is absent from Ireland, where it is said to have been expelled by Saint Patrick.
Adult grass snakes grow to about 80cm long, but can grow as large as 120cm long. They are a dull green / brown colour, with a cream belly and black markings-black spots and black bars are found down its sides. A lot of grass snakes have a distinctive yellow and black collar, but sometimes this is absent, especially in larger individuals. Grass snakes. There is only one type of snake found in Jersey – the grass snake. The grass snake is entirely harmless and the rarest of Jersey’s reptiles. It is often confused with the slow worm, which is actually a legless lizard
The grass snake (Natrix natrix) is Britain's largest terrestrial reptile. This snake is typically olive-green, brown or greyish in colour, with a variable row of black bars along the sides, occasionally with smaller round markings along the back in double rows. The grass snake is found in lowland areas of Britain. It is widespread and common in some areas of the south and south east of England, is absent from Scotland and becomes rare in central Wales. It is absent from Ireland, where it is said to have been expelled by Saint Patrick.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Grass Snake is typically dark green or brown in colour with a characteristic yellow collar behind the head, which explains the alternative name ringed snake. The colour may also range from grey to black. The underside is lighter in colour. 
Smooth green snakes are the only snakes in eastern North America that are entirely bright green on their upper surfaces. This coloration camouflages them well in their grassy habitats. The head is slightly wider than the neck and is green above and white below. 