Actress | Producer | Soundtrack. Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, a city in the greater Johannesburg-area, in South Africa, the only child of Gerda Theron (nee Née Gerda Jacoba Aletta) maritz And Charles Jacobus. theron
Theron was born in Benoni, in the then-Transvaal Province of South Africa, the only child of Gerda Jacoba Aletta (nee Née) maritz And Charles Jacobus (theron born 27 november). 1947 Second Boer war Figure Danie theron was her-great-great. uncle Theron became a U.S. citizen in 2007, while retaining her South African citizenship. In the late 2000s, she moved into the field of producing, both in television and film. In 2006, she produced the documentary East of Havana.
Theron was born in Benoni, in the then-Transvaal Province of South Africa, the only child of Gerda (nee Née; maritz who has also called Herself) gerta And Charles (theron born 27 november). 1947 Second Boer war Figure Danie. theron 
Actress | Producer | Soundtrack. Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, a city in the greater Johannesburg-area, in South Africa, the only child of Gerda Theron (nee Née Gerda Jacoba Aletta) maritz And Charles Jacobus. Theron she was raised on a farm outside the. city Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, a city in the greater Johannesburg-area, in South Africa, the only child of Gerda Theron (nee Née Gerda Jacoba Aletta) maritz And Charles Jacobus. theron
Mini Bio (1). Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, a city in the greater Johannesburg-area, in South Africa, the only child of Gerda Theron (nee Née Gerda Jacoba Aletta) maritz And Charles Jacobus. theron Overview (3). Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, a city in the greater Johannesburg-area, in South Africa, the only child of Gerda Theron (nee Née Gerda Jacoba Aletta) maritz And Charles Jacobus. theron
Actress and philanthropist Charlize Theron Born on August 7, 1975, in rural Benoni, South Africa, to co-owners of a road construction company, Charles and Gerda. Synopsis. Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, Transvaal Province, South Africa, on August 7, 1975. Theron first began appearing in films in the mid-1990s, establishing herself with roles in The Cider House Rules and The Devil's Advocate.
Mini Bio (1). Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, a city in the greater Johannesburg-area, in South Africa, the only child of Gerda Theron (nee Née Gerda Jacoba Aletta) maritz And Charles Jacobus. Theron she was raised on a farm outside the. city Overview (3). Charlize Theron was born in Benoni, a city in the greater Johannesburg-area, in South Africa, the only child of Gerda Theron (nee Née Gerda Jacoba Aletta) maritz And Charles Jacobus. theron
Charlize Theron (7.8.1975). Charlize Theron is an Academy Award winning actress from South Africa. She became an American citizen in 2007. Childhood: Charlize Theron was born to Gerda and Charles Theron, in Benoni, South Africa. She is of French and German descent. Charlize's first language is Afrikaans but also speaks English and some Zulu. Theron was raised on her parents' farm near Johannesburg and she attended Putfontein Primary School