Definition. Muscular dystrophy is a group of diseases that cause progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass. In muscular dystrophy, abnormal genes (mutations) interfere with the production of proteins needed to form healthy muscle. There are many different kinds of muscular dystrophy
About Muscular Dystrophy. Muscular dystrophy (MD) refers to a group of more than 30 genetic diseases that cause progressive weakness and degeneration of skeletal muscles used during voluntary movement. The word dystrophy is derived from the Greek dys, which means difficult or faulty, and troph, or nourish.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) — The most severe form of muscular dystrophy, DMD usually affects young boys and causes progressive muscle weakness, usually beginning in the legs. Dystrophin — A protein that helps muscle tissue repair itself. 1 Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD): EDMD affects young boys, causing contractures and weakness in the calves, weakness in the shoulders and upper arms, and problems in the way electrical impulses travel through the heart to make it beat (heart conduction defects).
Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue.
1 Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD): DMD affects young boys, causing progressive muscle weakness, usually beginning in the legs. 2  It is the most severe form of muscular dystrophy. 3  DMD occurs in about 1 in 3,500 male births, and affects approximately 8,000 boys and young men in the United States. 1 Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD): EDMD affects young boys, causing contractures and weakness in the calves, weakness in the shoulders and upper arms, and problems in the way electrical impulses travel through the heart to make it beat (heart conduction defects).
Medical Definition of MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. : any of a group of hereditary diseases characterized by progressive wasting of muscles—called also progressive muscular dystrophy; see becker muscular dystrophy, duchenne muscular dystrophy. Full Definition of MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. : any of a group of hereditary diseases characterized by progressive wasting of muscles — compare Becker muscular dystrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy. See muscular dystrophy defined for English-language learners.
Abbr. MD. 1. Any of a group of progressive muscle disorders caused by a defect in one or more genes that control muscle function and characterized by gradual irreversible wasting of skeletal muscle. 2. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy. 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy: The best-known form of muscular dystrophy, due to mutation in a gene on the X chromosome that prevents the production of dystrophin, a normal protein in muscle. DMD affects boys and, very rarely, girls. 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a recessive X-linked form of muscular dystrophy, affecting around 1 in 3,600 boys, which results in muscle degeneration and premature death. The disorder is caused by a mutation in the gene dystrophin, located on the human X chromosome, which codes for the protein dystrophin. 