1 The subject of an active voice sentence performs the action of the verb: “I throw the ball.”. 2  The subject of a passive voice sentence is still the main character of the sentence, but something else performs the action: “The ball is thrown by me. 
ACTIVE / PASSIVE VOICE. In most English sentences with an action verb, the subject performs the action denoted by the verb. These examples show that the subject is doing the verb's action. Because the subject does or acts upon the verb in such sentences, the sentences are said to be in the active voice. 2. Remove the auxiliary verb be from the main verb and change main verb's form if needed. 3. Place the passive sentence's object of the preposition by into the subject slot. Because it is more direct, most writers prefer to use the active voice whenever possible.
The passive voice is used when we want to emphasize the action (the verb) and the object of a sentence rather than subject. This means that the subject is either less important than the action itself or that we don’t know who or what the subject is. 
Look at this example of the passive voice: Here's another example of the passive voice: Passive voice is a quality of a verb that describes when the subject of a sentence is acted upon by the verb. When the opposite is true (i.e., the subject of the sentence is acting out the verb), it is said to be in active voice.
To know whether you are writing in the active or passive voice, identify the subject of the sentence and decide whether the subject is doing the action or being acted upon. 1  Passive Voice: the subject is the receiver of the action. 2  The tax return (subject) was completed (action) before the April 15 deadline by Mr. Doe. 1 Passive Voice: the subject is the receiver of the action. 2  The tax return (subject) was completed (action) before the April 15 deadline by Mr. Doe. 3  Active Voice: the subject does an action to an object. 4  Mr. Doe (subject) completed (action) the tax return (object) before the April 15 deadline.
Passive and Active Voices. Verbs are also said to be either active (The executive committee. the new policy) or passive (The new policy. by the executive committee) in. . In the active voice, the subject and verb relationship is straightforward: the subject is a be-er or a do-er and the verb moves the sentence along. In the passive voice, the subject of the sentence is neither a do-er or a be-er, but is acted upon by some other agent or by something unnamed (The new policy was approved). Computerized grammar checkers can pick out a passive voice construction from miles away and ask you to revise it to a more active construction. The passive forms of a verb are created by combining a form of the to be verb with the past participle of the main verb. Other helping verbs are also sometimes present: The measure. in committee.. The passive can be used, also, in various tenses.
Image Caption: This is an example of the passive voice. Image Caption: The subject of the passive voice sentence performs the action expressed in the verb in this example. Reasons to Generally Avoid Passive Voice. Sometimes the use of passive voice can create awkward sentences, as in the last example above. In a sentence using passive voice, the subject is acted upon; he or she receives the action expressed by the verb. The agent performing the action may appear in a by the... phrase or may be omitted. Image Caption: The dog is acting upon the sentence subject (the boy), meaning it uses
A sentence featuring the passive voice is sometimes called a passive sentence, and a verb phrase in passive voice is sometimes called a passive verb. English allows a number of passive constructions which are not possible in many of the other languages with similar passive formation. The passive voice in English is formed periphrastically: the usual form uses the auxiliary verb be (or get) together with the past participle of the main verb. For example, Caesar was stabbed by Brutus uses the passive voice.