In semiconductor testing, contactor can also refer to the specialised socket that connects the device under test. In process industries a contactor is a vessel where two streams interact, for example, air and liquid. See Gas-liquid contactor. A contactor is controlled by a circuit which has a much lower power level than the switched circuit. Contactors come in many forms with varying capacities and features.
The air conditioner contactor is basically a switch that is located in the outdoor part of the air conditioning unit. The switch consists of a control coil, a metal plunger, and one or more sets of electrical contacts. the switch turns the unit on and off as required to keep the home at the desired temperature. Normal contactor operation... The control coil has a voltage rating on it. In most residential systems, the control voltage will be 24 vac but it can also be 120 vac or 240 vac. The rating will normally be written on the coil itself.
Contactors are used by electrical equipment that is frequently turned off and on with the opening and closing of a circuit. The function of the contactor is to make and break all power supply lines running to a Load or to repeatedly establish and interrupt an electrical power circuit. Pushbuttons and selector switches, like the ones on a control panel, are used in hundreds of manufacturing industries. Each button and switch is connected to a contactor for use in making or breaking an electrical circuit remotely. They are used in applications such as elevators, pools, food processing, pumps/compressors, lighting, hoists and cranes, battery chargers, printing presses, vending machines, and agricultural processes
Contactors are used by electrical equipment that is frequently turned off and on with the opening and closing of a circuit. The function of the contactor is to make and break all power supply lines running to a Load or to repeatedly establish and interrupt an electrical power circuit. Types of Contactors. 
When a relay is used to switch a large amount of electrical power through its circuits, it is given a new name, a Contactor. These contactors are very commonly used in industries for control of electric motors. Thus it is clear that contactor is only a special type of relay. by olivia Last updated on: February 28, 2011. Contactor vs Relay. Contactor and relay are two terms often encountered when dealing with electric circuits. Both these devices are used for similar purposes and hence people are often confused about the difference between a contactor and a relay.
1 A contactor is a large relay, usually used to switch current to an electric motor or other high-power load. 2  Large electric motors can be protected from overcurrent damage through the use of overload heaters and overload contacts. The auxiliary contact is often used in a relay logic circuit, or for some other part of the motor control scheme, typically switching 120 Volt AC power instead of the motor voltage. One contactor may have several auxiliary contacts, either normally-open or normally-closed, if required.
A contactor is an electrically controlled switch used for switching an electrical power circuit, similar to a relay except with higher current ratings. A contactor is controlled by a circuit which has a much lower power level than the switched circuit. Contactors come in many forms with varying capacities and features. Unlike a circuit breaker, a contactor is not intended to interrupt a short circuit current. Contactors range from those having a breaking current of several amperes to thousands of amperes and 24 V DC to many kilovolt
Contactors are used in applications ranging from a light switch to the most complex, automated industrial equipment. Contactors are used by electrical equipment that is frequently turned off and on (opening and closing the circuit), such as lights, heaters and motors. Pushbuttons and selector switches, like the ones on a control panel, are used in hundreds of manufacturing industries. Each button and switch is connected to a contactor for use in making or breaking an electrical circuit remotely. They are used in applications such as elevators, pools, food processing, pumps/compressors, lighting, hoists and cranes, battery chargers, printing presses, vending machines, and agricultural processe
Contactors are useful in commercial and industrial applications, particularly for controlling large lighting loads and motors. One of their hallmarks is reliability. However, like any other device, they are not infallible. In most cases, the contactor does not simply wear out from normal use. Usually, the reason for contactor failure is misapplication. That's why you need to understand the basics of contactors. When someone uses a lighting contactor in a motor application, that's a misapplication. The same is true when someone uses a normal operation motor contactor for motor jogging duty. Contactors have specific designs for specific purposes. When selecting contactors, you'll use one of two common standards: NEMA or IEC