A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE MASONIC ORDER In a biography dealing with the leadership of Freemasonry, it is useful to look not only at the nature and purpose of that institution, but also at its history. Clearly, historical reflection is necessary in order to anchor and enhance the understanding of what a Grand Master is, what he does and where he comes from.
The teaching activity of the order and its scholastic organization placed the Preachers in the forefront of the intellectual life of the Middle Ages. They were the pioneers in all directions as one may see from a subsequent paragraph relative to their literary productions. At the general Chapter of Bologna, 1221, the year of St. Dominic's death, the order already counted some sixty establishments, and was divided into eight provinces: Spain, Provence, France, Lombardy, Rome, Teutonia, England, and Hungary.
The following excerpt from the World Scope Encyclopedia gives an overview of the purpose and history of the Jesuit order, as the Order would like us to understand it: Jesuits, or Society of Jesus: A monastic order of the Roman Catholic Church, founded (1536) in Paris by Ignatius of Loyola. Throughout its history, many people have written and spoken about the reputation, history, and political nature of the Jesuit Order. Find out what they have to say in this compilation of quotes from throughout history.
As the Order of the Friars Preachers is the principal part of the entire Order of St. Dominic, we shall include under this title the two other parts of the order: the Dominican Sisters (Second Order) and the Brothers of Penitence of St. Dominic (Third Order). At the general Chapter of Bologna, 1221, the year of St. Dominic's death, the order already counted some sixty establishments, and was divided into eight provinces: Spain, Provence, France, Lombardy, Rome, Teutonia, England, and Hungary.
The Amish, called The Plain People or Old Order Amish, originated in Switzerland about l525. They came from a division of the Mennonites or Anabaptists (Re-baptizers). They opposed the union of church and state and infant baptism. They baptized people only as adults at about age l8. 
The Ionic order (Greek: ιωνικός ρυθμός) forms one of the three orders of classical architecture, the other two canonic orders being the Doric and the Corinthian. The major features of the Ionic order are the volutes of its capital, which have been the subject of much theoretical and practical discourse, based on a brief and obscure passage in Vitruvius. The only tools required were a straight-edge, a right angle, string (to establish half-lengths) and a compass.
The Order of Preachers is the work of the Roman Church. She found in St. Dominic an instrument of the first rank. But it was she who inspired the establishment of the order, who loaded it with privileges, directed its general activity, and protected it against its adversaries. At the general Chapter of Bologna, 1221, the year of St. Dominic's death, the order already counted some sixty establishments, and was divided into eight provinces: Spain, Provence, France, Lombardy, Rome, Teutonia, England, and Hungary.
(There are two lesser orders, the stocky Tuscan order and the rich variant of Corinthian, the Composite order, added by 16th-century Italian architectural theory and practice.) The Ionic columns are the most thin and small columns out of the three canonic orders. The Ionic capital is characterized by the use of volutes. The major features of the Ionic order are the volutes of its capital, which have been the subject of much theoretical and practical discourse, based on a brief and obscure passage in Vitruvius. The only tools required were a straight-edge, a right angle, string (to establish half-lengths) and a compass.
In functional-cognitive linguistics, as well as in semiotics, iconicity is the conceived similarity or analogy between the form of a sign (linguistic or otherwise) and its meaning, as opposed to arbitrariness. Iconic principles: 1  Quantity principle: conceptual complexity corresponds to formal complexity. 