Hyperic HQ monitors hosts with the use of an agent-based model; a Java-based agent is installed on target hosts that collect data and feed the information to a management server. Once the agent is installed on the host, its services should be detected by the auto-discovery process of Hyperic HQ (Figure 2). Figure 2: The auto-discovery process identifies services on the system.
VMware, Inc. is a US company that provides cloud and virtualization software and services, and claims to be the first to commercially successfully virtualize the x86 architecture. The first product, VMware Workstation, was delivered in May 1999, and the company entered the server market in 2001 with VMware GSX Server (hosted) and VMware ESX Server (hostless). In 2003, VMware launched VMware Virtual Center, the VMotion, and Virtual SMP technology.
Some gadgets may rely on specific iGoogle features that will not work properly on Atlassian dashboards. In that case, you can simply remove the gadget from the directory or you may not be allowed to add the gadget at all. A gadget's URL looks something like this: http://example.com/my-gadget-location/my-gadget.xml. Find more gadgets to add. Only add gadgets that you trust! Gadgets can allow unwanted or malicious code onto your web page. You can add gadgets from Atlassian applications such as Confluence, JIRA and others. You can also add gadgets from other websites such as iGoogle. Many public gadgets will work on an Atlassian dashboard.
Installation. Hyperic HQ monitors hosts with the use of an agent-based model; a Java-based agent is installed on target hosts that collect data and feed the information to a management server. Hyperic provides easy-to-configure installers for Linux, Windows, Mac OS X (PPC), and Solaris. Once the agent is installed on the host, its services should be detected by the auto-discovery process of Hyperic HQ (Figure 2). Figure 2: The auto-discovery process identifies services on the system.
1 After you have installed a vRealize Hyperic agent on a Windows virtual machine, the agent starts automatically. 2  When you upgrade a vRealize Hyperic agent, if you select an option that is incompatible with the upgrade, the agent becomes unavailable and the displayed messages are misleading. In addition to general issue fixing, the following changes have been made in vRealize Hyperic 5.8.4. 1  The product name has been changed from vCenter Hyperic to vRealize Hyperic. 2  Non-English languages are supported for Windows operating systems.
Hyperic HQ excels at monitoring applications and providing performance statistics for the most common application servers, database servers, web servers, network devices, and applications. Hyperic is an excellent choice for monitoring a Java application server, such as a JBoss server system. Once the agent is installed on the host, its services should be detected by the auto-discovery process of Hyperic HQ (Figure 2). Figure 2: The auto-discovery process identifies services on the system.
Author(s): Matthew Sacks. Monitor a Java application server with Hyperic HQ. Hyperic HQ is an open source enterprise monitoring suite that includes all the essential features of an enterprise monitoring tool. Once the agent is installed on the host, its services should be detected by the auto-discovery process of Hyperic HQ (Figure 2). Figure 2: The auto-discovery process identifies services on the system.
Issues Addressed in vRealize Hyperic 5.8.4. 1  When you upgrade the Hyperic server from vCenter Hyperic 5.8.3 to vRealize Hyperic 5.8.4 on a Windows OS, after the upgrade has been completed successfully, you must run. 2  and. 3  to complete the installation process. In addition to general issue fixing, the following changes have been made in vRealize Hyperic 5.8.4. 1  The product name has been changed from vCenter Hyperic to vRealize Hyperic. 2  Non-English languages are supported for Windows operating systems.
1 . Do not start or restart the vRealize Hyperic server using root credentials. 2  When SELinux is enabled, the CentOS 5.8/5.7 32-bit vRealize Hyperic agent running on Java 7 fails to start, and the message. 3  is displayed. In addition to general issue fixing, the following changes have been made in vRealize Hyperic 5.8.4. 1  The product name has been changed from vCenter Hyperic to vRealize Hyperic. 2  Non-English languages are supported for Windows operating systems.