Role of Restriction Enzymes in Genetic Engineering. Genetic engineering is any human-directed modification of the genetic makeup of organisms to change the... Because the exact same recognition sequences exist in the DNA of different organisms, biologists can use restriction enzymes to cut a stretch of DNA from the genome of one organism and paste it into the genome of another. (A genome is any complete set of the DNA warehoused in a cell’s nucleus.).
An organism that is generated through genetic engineering is considered to be a genetically modified organism (GMO). The first GMOs were bacteria generated in 1973 and GM mice in 1974. Insulin-producing bacteria were commercialized in 1982 and genetically modified food has been sold since 1994. If genetic material from the same species or a species that can naturally breed with the host is used the resulting organism is called cisgenic. Genetic engineering can also be used to remove genetic material from the target organism, creating a gene knockout organism.
Genetic engineering. Photo by: Gernot Krautberger. Genetic engineering is any process by which genetic material (the building blocks of heredity) is changed in such a way as to make possible the production of new substances or new functions. As an example, biologists have now learned how to transplant the gene that produces light in a firefly into tobacco plants. The term vector means any organism that will carry the gene from one place to another. The most common vector used in genetic engineering is a circular form of DNA known as a plasmid. Endonucleases are used to cut the plasmid molecule open at almost any point chosen by the scientist. Once the plasmid has been cut open, it is mixed with the insulin gene and a ligase enzyme
Plasmids, circular double stranded DNA molecules, are used as a shuttle to transport a gene of interest into a foreign host cell for a number of reasons. These reasons include either maintenance of the plasmid within the cytoplasm, or integration of the foreign DNA into the nuclear DNA of the host cell. Restriction enzymes are often sourced from bacteria. They cut DNA at specific sequences and so can be used to create fragments of DNA from whole strands. The characteristic pa … ttern of these fragments for different restriction enzymes is used in genetic finger printing of people and bacteria.
Genetic Engineering. The goal of genetic engineering is changing the genetic makeup of an organism. To achieve this goal, scientists must have a way of rearranging genes to create new combinations of DNA. Restriction enzymes are one tool that can be used to accomplish this goal. 
1 the gene the genetic engineers want may be in a human chromosome-it might be the gene for insulin production. 2  they use an enzyme to cut the insulin gene out of the chromosome. 3  plasmids are then removed from bacterial cells. 4  the plasmids are cut open with an enzyme. They are: 1 
Restriction enzymes are used in recombinant DNA technology to obtain with pieces of DNA molecules with precision, which will later be inserted into other DNA molecules cut by the same enzymes. 1  Genetic Engineering Review-Image Diversity: recombinant DNA technology restriction enzymes. 5. DNA ligases are enzymes specialized in tying the complementary DNA chains that form the DNA double helix. These enzymes are used in recombinant DNA technology to insert pieces of DNA cut by restriction enzymes into other DNA molecules undergoing the effect of the same endonucleases. 1  Genetic Engineering Review-Image Diversity: DNA ligas