There are many muscles in the forearm. In the anterior compartment, they are split into three categories; superficial, intermediate and deep. In general, muscles in the anterior compartment of the forearm perform flexion at the wrist and fingers, and pronation. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. 1  Attachments: Originates from the medial epicondyle with the other superficial flexors. 2  It also has a long origin from the ulna. 3  It passes into the wrist, and attaches to the pisiform carpal bone. 4  Actions: Flexion and adduction at the wrist. 5  Innervation: Ulnar nerve.
Biceps: Long Head. The biceps brachii muscle splits into two tendons at the shoulder: the long head and the short head. The long head of the biceps muscle assists other muscles with shoulder flexion. It is located in the front of the upper arm and attaches to the glenoid fossa, or socket part of the shoulder joint. The long head of the biceps muscle is innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve. The petoralis major is a large, strong muscle that produces shoulder flexion. It is located in the front of the chest and attaches by tendon to the humerus, or upper arm bone.
When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, flexion refers to movement in the anterior direction. Flexion of the shoulder or hip refers to movement of the arm or leg forward. Extension is the opposite of flexion, describing a straightening movement that increases the angle between body parts. When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, extension refers to movement in the posterior direction.
The muscles of the upper arm are responsible for the flexion and extension of the forearm at the elbow joint. Flexion of the forearm is achieved by a group of three muscles – the brachialis, biceps brachii, and brachioradialis. Muscles of the Arm and Hand. The muscles of the arm and hand are specifically designed to meet the body’s diverse needs of strength, speed, and precision while completing many complex daily tasks. Activities such as lifting weights or heavy boxes require brute strength from the muscles of the arm
Motion, the process of movement, is described using specific anatomical terms. Motion includes movement of organs, joints, limbs, and specific sections of the body. The terminology used, describes this motion according to its direction relative to the anatomical position of the joints. Extension is the opposite of flexion, describing a straightening movement that increases the angle between body parts. When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, extension refers to movement in the posterior direction.
However, the elbow also allows the wrist to rotate by pivoting the radius around the ulna. The muscles of the elbow cooperate to perform the many movements at the elbow joint, giving both great strength and flexibility to the arm.... The elbow is a synovial hinge joint located between the upper arm and forearm. It is formed by the meeting of three bones: the humerus in the upper arm and the ulna and radius in the lower arm. Like all other hinge joints, the elbow permits movement in one plane, namely the flexion and extension of the forearm relative to the upper arm
The superficial muscles in the anterior compartment are the flexor carpi ulnaris, palmaris longus, flexor carpi radialis and pronator teres. They all originate from a common tendon, which arises from the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. 1  Attachments: Originates from the medial epicondyle with the other superficial flexors. 2  It also has a long origin from the ulna. 3  It passes into the wrist, and attaches to the pisiform carpal bone. 4  Actions: Flexion and adduction at the wrist. 5  Innervation: Ulnar nerve.
Pectoralis Major. The petoralis major is a large, strong muscle that produces shoulder flexion. It is located in the front of the chest and attaches by tendon to the humerus, or upper arm bone.