Semi acoustic and electric acoustic guitar are hollow (not solid) body guitars with a mic inbuilt. It can be a condenser microphone or a piezo-electric under-saddle pickup. There is some confusion here between semi-acoustic guitars and electric acoustic guitars. It's compounded by the fact that the guitar linked in the question has been mislabelled by the shopping site-they are evidently not specialists in music.
A semi-acoustic guitar or hollow-body electric is a type of electric guitar that originates from the 1930s. It has both a sound box and one or more electric pickups. This is not the same as an acoustic-electric guitar, which is an acoustic guitar with the addition of pickups or other means of amplification, added by either the manufacturer or the player.
Write a guide. A semi-acoustic guitar or hollow-body electric guitar is a versatile instrument suitable for playing with or without an amplifier. You can find a variety of semi-acoustic guitars on markets like eBay. Before buying, know what factors to consider and choose the right pickup and wood type. Although wood type does not have the same effect in electric guitars as it does in acoustic guitars, it affect the sound of a semi-acoustic guitar because this instrument shares some characteristics with an acoustic guitar.
Semi-acoustic's are generally about as deep as a solid-body electric guitar; or about half the depth of an acoustic guitar. Sometimes they are hollow throughout; sometimes they just have a couple of cavities on either side of a solid piece that passes through the length of the guitar. There is some confusion here between semi-acoustic guitars and electric acoustic guitars. It's compounded by the fact that the guitar linked in the question has been mislabelled by the shopping site-they are evidently not specialists in music.
You can certainly use an electric-acoustic guitar with GarageBand and similar programs. A semi-acoustic guitar (also known as a hollow-body electric) is an electric guitar in which some part of the body is hollow. It is semi acoustic because the hollow section is not large enough to give the instrument satisfactory volume or tone without amplification. There is some confusion here between semi-acoustic guitars and electric acoustic guitars. It's compounded by the fact that the guitar linked in the question has been mislabelled by the shopping site-they are evidently not specialists in music.
Other guitars are borderline between semi-acoustic and solid body. For example, some Telecaster guitars have chambers built into an otherwise solid body to enrich the sound. This type of instrument can be referred to as a semi-hollow or a chambered body guitar. It has both a sound box and one or more electric pickups. This is not the same as an acoustic-electric guitar, which is an acoustic guitar with the addition of pickups or other means of amplification, added by either the manufacturer or the player.
An archtop guitar is a steel-stringed acoustic or semi-acoustic guitar with a full body and a distinctive arched top, whose sound is particularly popular with jazz players. Typically, an archtop guitar has: 1  6 strings. 2  An arched top and back, not flat. 3  Moveable adjustable bridge. 1 Full hollowbody semi-acoustic instruments, such as the Gibson ES-175; these have a full-size sound box, but are still intended to be played through an amplifier. 2  Fully acoustic instruments with either a pressed laminate wood or hand carved top.
It is commonly referred to as a semi-hollow body guitar, because of the smaller, less open body. Rickenbacker also began making semi-acoustic guitars in 1958. When the company changed ownership in 1954, they hired German guitar crafter, Roger Rossmiesl. It has both a sound box and one or more electric pickups. This is not the same as an acoustic-electric guitar, which is an acoustic guitar with the addition of pickups or other means of amplification, added by either the manufacturer or the player.