The glycemic index for 120 g of mango is 60, which qualifies the fruit as moderate on the glycemic index scale. However, because green mangoes have a high water content, the amount of carbohydrate by weight makes the glycemicload score a 9. A green mango is a low-glycemic-load food. Green mangoes have a glycemic index of 60. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Common types of green mangoes available in the United States include the Kent and Keitt varieties.
Because the nutritional values across mango varieties is similar, green mangoes have a glycemic index and glycemic load value comparable to red, yellow and orange mangoes. In the U.S., green mangoes are generally available from January to March and from mid-May to mid-October. Green mangoes have a glycemic index of 60. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Common types of green mangoes available in the United States include the Kent and Keitt varieties.
1/2 cup of sliced mango contains about 13 grams effective carbohydrate, 4 grams of fiber and 135 calories. The Mango's Glycemic index ranges from 41 to 60 and is different for different varieties of Mango. 
For eating guidelines, see Low Glycemic Index Food Pyramid See also: Glycemic Index of Mango More Facts About Blood Glucose and Insulin Hormones from the pancreas, called insulin and glucagon help to regulate blood glucose levels. Glycemic Load Explained While the glycemic index classifies foods according to how fast 50g of carbs in them raises our blood glucose levels, Glycemic Load indicates how fast a standard portion of a particular food (like Mango) raises blood glucose, and thus gives an indication of glycemic and insulin response.
Glycemic Index Explained The glycemic index is a measurement of the type or quality of carbs in a particular food, and how fast 50 grams of this carbohydrate raises blood glucose levels, (and consequent insulin secretion and effects produced by the pancreas) as it is digested. 
This is the definitive table for both the glycemic index and the glycemic load. I am able to reproduce it here courtesy of the author, Professor Jennie Brand-Miller of the University of Sydney. It is based on a table in different format but no more foods published December 2008 in Diabetes Care. GI of 55 is low; GL of 10 is low. This table includes the glycemic index and glycemic load of more than 2,480 individual food items. Not all of them, however, are available in the United States. They represent a true international effort of testing around the world.
Mango Glycemic Values. Foods with a glycemic load of 10 or less are classified as low-glycemic-load foods. A score of 11 to 19 constitutes a medium glycemic load, while a score of 20 or higher is considered high. Green mangoes have a glycemic index of 60. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Common types of green mangoes available in the United States include the Kent and Keitt varieties.
Glycemic Index. The glycemic index runs from 0 to 100, and it indicates how fast a carbohydrate food spikes blood sugar levels when consumed. Foods ranked from 0 to 55 are considered low, foods from 56 to 70 are moderate, and foods from 71 to 100 are high. Mangoes rank at 51, which makes them low on the glycemic index. A 165-gram portion of mangoes contains 3 grams of fiber. The recommended daily intake of fiber for men up to 50 years old is 38 grams. Men over 51 should get at least 30 grams. Women up to 50 should get 25 grams, and women over 51 should consume 21 grams per day.