Kurdish (Kurdi / kurdí / کوردی’к). Oeрди öрди kurdish is a member Of The western iranian Branch-Of indo. European languages approximately 26 million People speak Kurdish, In, Iraq, Turkey, Iran, Syria, Lebanon, Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan azerbaijan Kazakstan. and afghanistan Approximately 26 million people speak Kurdish in Iraq, Turkey, Iran, Syria, Lebanon, Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, Kazakstan and Afghanistan.
No. Most Kurds speak Kurdish, but only Iraqi and Syrian Kurds may speak Arabic (many, especially in the countryside do not speak Arabic). Kurds in Turkey, Iran, Azerbaijan, an … d Israel all do not speak Arabic. 2 people found this useful. 
The Kurdish language. Kurdish, the most widely spoken language in the Kurdistan Region, is in the Indo-European family of languages. The Kurdistan Region’s official languages for government purposes are Kurdish and Arabic. The two most widely spoken dialects of Kurdish are Sorani and Kurmanji. Kurdish, the most widely spoken language in the Kurdistan Region, is in the Indo-European family of languages. The Kurdistan Region’s official languages for government purposes are Kurdish and Arabic
The Kurdish People * 15 million to 20 million Kurds live in a mountainous area straddling the borders of Armenia, Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey. About 8 million live in southeastern Turkey. * The Kurds are a non-Arabic people who speak a language related to Persian. Most adhere to the Sunni Muslim faith. Turkey * 1920: After World War I, when the Ottoman Empire is carved up, the Kurds are promised independence by the Treaty of Sevres.
A largely Sunni Muslim people with their own language and culture, most Kurds live in the generally contiguous areas of Turkey, Iraq, Iran, Armenia and Syria  a mountainous region of southwest Asia generally known as Kurdistan (Land of the Kurds). About 8 million live in southeastern Turkey. * The Kurds are a non-Arabic people who speak a language related to Persian. Most adhere to the Sunni Muslim faith. Turkey * 1920: After World War I, when the Ottoman Empire is carved up, the Kurds are promised independence by the Treaty of Sevres.
Kurdish is a macrolanguage that consists of a continuum of closely related languages spoken over a large territory that encompasses Turkey, Kurdistan, Iran, Syria, Iraq, Iran, Armenia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan with a large diaspora spread all over Europe and the United States. 1 Central Kurdish (Kurdi, Sorani) is spoken by 3.5 million people in Iraq and by 3.2 million in Iran. 2  It is also spoken in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Turkmenistan (Ethnologue).
Kurdish is a member of the Western Iranian branch of Indo-European languages. Approximately 26 million people speak Kurdish in Iraq, Turkey, Iran, Syria, Lebanon, Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, Kazakstan and Afghanistan. Kurdish began to appear in writing in a version of the Persian alphabet during the 7th century AD
Kurdish (کوردی, Kurdi) kurdî is a continuum Of Northwestern iranian languages spoken by The kurds In Western. asia 1 Northern Kurdish (Kurmanji) is the largest dialect group, spoken by an estimated 15 to 20 million Kurds in Turkey, Syria, northern Iraq and northwestern Iran.
Kurdish (کوردی, Kurdi) kurdî is a continuum Of Northwestern iranian languages spoken by The kurds In Western. Asia kurdish forms three dialect groups known As Northern (Kurdish), Kurmanji Central (Kurdish), sorani And Southern (Kurdish). pehlewani 1 Northern Kurdish (Kurmanji) is the largest dialect group, spoken by an estimated 15 to 20 million Kurds in Turkey, Syria, northern Iraq and northwestern Iran.