SERRAPEPTASE Side Effects & Safety. Serrapeptase seems to be safe for adults when taken by mouth, short-term (up to 4 weeks). The long-term safety of serrapeptase is not known. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of serrapeptase during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. 
Serratiopeptidase (Serratia E-15 protease, also known as serralysin, serrapeptase, serratiapeptase, serratia peptidase, serratio peptidase, or serrapeptidase) is a proteolytic enzyme (protease) produced by enterobacterium Serratia sp. E-15. 
Today Serrapeptase is used all over Europe and Asia in clinical settings. It has the ability to break down non-living tissue in the body. Serrapeptase is perhaps one of the world’s most exciting enzymes being studied in regard to its wide variety of clinical applications. Currently, especially in Europe and Asia, it is clinically used for many, many negative health condition
In a double-blind study, Serrapeptase was found to reduce breast pain, breast swelling and induration in 85.7% of the patients taking the supplement. This is related to the fact that the enzyme possesses fibrinolytic, proteolytic and anti-edemic properties. It has the ability to break down non-living tissue in the body. Serrapeptase is perhaps one of the world’s most exciting enzymes being studied in regard to its wide variety of clinical applications.
See Studies and Technical Information. Serrapeptase – (Wikipedia calls it many other names: Serratiopeptidase, Serratia E-15 protease, also known as serralysin, serratiapeptase, serratia peptidase, serratio peptidase, or serrapeptidase) is a proteolytic enzyme (protease) produced by enterobacterium Serratia sp. In the U.S., serrapeptase is classified as a dietary supplement. Serrapeptase.info is the authority on serrapeptase and here is what it does. Serrapeptase digests inflammations, scars (non-living tissue), blood clots, cysts, and arterial plaque and inflammation in all forms.
Serrapeptase is a naturally occurring enzyme that was originally isolated from silk worm larvae. The enzyme is produced by bacteria in the gut of silk worm, and is responsible for helping the silk worm digest the mulberry leaf (its natural food) and the cocoon when it emerges as the moth. It is produced by a bacterium living in the gut called Serratia E15, hence it’s name. Serrapeptase has a number of known actions in the body, including anti-inflammatory and it’s ability to break up non-living material.
Serrapeptase (also known as serratiopeptidase and serralysin) is a powerful nutritional and the principal anti-inflammatory protease (enzyme) in its class, ranking higher (for its healing properties) than other proteolytic enzymes like nattokinase and lumbrokinase, to name just two. Serrapeptase has fibrinolytic actions, which means it breaks down fibrin in the blood. Fibrin is a protein that when acting normally, aids normal blood flow and clotting. When it is not normal, the actions result in hypercoagulation (dangerous thickening of the blood) and the forming non cancerous tumors.
Serrapeptase is a proteolytic enzyme (breaks down proteins) that is naturally occurring in the gut of silk worm. It is produced by a bacterium living in the gut called Serratia E15, hence it’s name. Serrapeptase has a number of known actions in the body, including anti-inflammatory and it’s ability to break up non-living material.
Peptizyme® SP is a proteolytic enzyme variously called serrapeptase, serrapeptidase, serratiopeptidase and serratia peptidase. It is isolated from the microorganism Serratia, which is naturally present in the intestine of silkworms. This enzyme enables the emerging moth to dissolve its fibrous cocoon. Like other proteases, serrapeptase has potent anti-inflammatory activity as well as several other beneficial properties. However, probably the most important aspect of serrapeptase is its fibrinolytic activity. It is this fibrinolytic activity that is of particular interest to clinicians and nutritionists.
Serrapeptase or Serratiopeptidase, an enzyme isolated from a microorganism in silkworm, is widely used in clinical practice in Japan. Until more is known about the long term benefit and side effects, we recommend limiting your daily dose to 20,000 units. Comment and review Serrapeptase has some clinical potential, however much more research is needed before we determine what clinical role this enzyme has in medicine. In the meantime, only use it under medical supervision until more studies determine the full spectrum of side effects and benefits.