The primary difference between transcription and DNA replication is that only a single strand of mRNA is produced during transcription. During DNA replication both strands need to be copied and DNA polymerase needs to work on both strands at the same time. Because DNA polymerase can only add new bases onto the free 3’ end of a molecule the two strands cannot be synthesized in the same way. The leading strand is synthesized as a continuous chain.
From DNA Replication at ThinkQuest. In general, DNA is replicated by uncoiling of the helix, strand separation by breaking of the hydrogen bonds between the complementary strands, and synthesis of two new strands by complementary base pairing. Replication begins at a specific site in the DNA called the origin of replication. Transcription is the process through which a DNA sequence is enzymaticaly copied by an RNA polymerase to produce a complementary RNA. Or, in other words, the transfer of genetic information from DNA into RNA.
The stretch of DNA that is transcribed into an RNA molecule is called transcription unit. Transcription has some proofreading mechanisms, but they are fewer and less effective than the controls for DNA; therefore, transcription has a lower copying fidelity than DNA replication. But to answer your question to the point, only one strand of DNA is copied during transcription for practical reasons. The one strand that is copied will result to a duplicate copy of the other strand that WAS NOT copied.
How does transcription differ from DNA synthesis? The primary difference between transcription and DNA replication is that only a single strand of mRNA is produced during transcription. During DNA replication both strands need to be copied and DNA polymerase needs to work on both strands at the same time. Because DNA polymerase can only add new bases onto the free 3’ end of a molecule the two strands cannot be synthesized in the same way. 
How does transcription differ from DNA synthesis? The primary difference between transcription and DNA replication is that only a single strand of mRNA is produced during transcription. During DNA replication both strands need to be copied and DNA polymerase needs to work on both strands at the same time. Because DNA polymerase can only add new bases onto the free 3’ end of a molecule the two strands cannot be synthesized in the same way. The leading strand is synthesized as a continuous chain.
Only one of the two DNA strands serve as a template for transcription. The antisense strand of DNA is read by RNA polymerase from the 3' end to the 5' end during transcription (3' → 5'). The complementary RNA is created in the opposite direction, in the 5' → 3' direction, matching the sequence of the sense strand with the exception of switching uracil for thymine.
Transcription of RNA differs from DNA synthesis in that only one strand of DNA, the template strand, is used to make mRNA. http://ghs.gresham.k12.or.us/science/ps/... Transcription: production of mRNA copy of the DNA gene. Gene: Section of DNA within a chromosome that codes for the synthesis of one protein. But to answer your question to the point, only one strand of DNA is copied during transcription for practical reasons. The one strand that is copied will result to a duplicate copy of the other strand that WAS NOT copied.
As in DNA replication, transcription proceeds in the 5' → 3' direction (i.e. the old polymer is read in the 3' → 5' direction and the new, complementary fragments are generated in the 5' → 3' direction). Transcription is divided into 3 stages: initiation, elongation and termination. But to answer your question to the point, only one strand of DNA is copied during transcription for practical reasons. The one strand that is copied will result to a duplicate copy of the other strand that WAS NOT copied.
Transcription is the process by which DNA is copied (transcribed) to mRNA, which carries the information needed for protein synthesis. Transcription takes place in two broad steps. First, pre-messenger RNA is formed, with the involvement of RNA polymerase enzymes. 