The bantu originated in West Africa.In other words southeast Nigeria. The Bantu are groups of negroid peoples of different tribes living in Equatorial and southern Africa. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Brain Anatomy: Location and Function of the Medulla The medulla oblongata is the lowermost section of the brain.
By one estimate, there are 513 languages in the Bantu grouping, 681 languages in Bantoid, and 1,514 in Niger-Congo.[1] Bantu languages are spoken basically east and south of the present day nation of Nigeria; i.e., in the regions commonly known as central Africa, east Africa, and southern Africa. A common characteristic of Bantu languages is that they use a stem form such as-ntu or-tu for 'person', and the plural prefix for people in many languages is ba-, together giving ba-ntu people.
According to Wikipedia [ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bantu_peoples ], their migration point started from the areas around Eastern Nigeria and Western Cameroun (see below). Today, their descendants are found in Central Africa, Eastern Africa and Southern Africa in millions. 
The Bantu expansion. The Bantu are thought to have originated from the the area of Nigeria/Cameroon, and started their expansion East and South about 5,000 years ago (3,000 BC). They reached the equatorial rain forest 3500 years ago, entering what is now Uganda, 3000 years ago
The proto-Bantu people originated in what is now south east Nigeria/northern Cameroon and slowly began migrating into central/southern/east Africa around 4000 years ago. The Bantu are of West African descent and typically belong to E2 haplogroups, also common among West African populations. Bantu, therefore means people. The Bantu have migrated and multiplied all over Africa. The presence of the word Ntu or ndu in reference to a person is given as clue, in a modern language, that they are Bantu.
Moreover there are many groups of Bantu speakers from Tanzania, Mozambique, Congo, Zambia, Malawi, South Africa, who testify a southerly migration from Egypt. There are even groups of people from West Africa who migrated from Egypt into their present day location. Below is an account which questions present day ideas about the origins of the Bantu people. In his book on the 'Restatement Of Bantu Origin and Meru History' the Kenyan scholar Alfred M M'Imanyara provides the evidence for a southerly migration from Egypt
Bantu peoples divided into zones according to the Guthrie classification of Bantu languages. Bantu peoples is used as a general label for the 300–600 ethnic groups in Africa who speak Bantu languages. They inhabit a geographical area stretching east and southward from Central Africa across the African Great Lakes region down to Southern Africa. Individual Bantu groups today often include millions of people. Among these are the Luba of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with over 13.5 million people; the Zulu of South Africa, with over 10 million people; and the Kikuyu of Kenya, with over 6 million people.
This Bantu expansion first introduced Bantu peoples to central, southern, and southeastern Africa, regions they had previously been absent from. Individual Bantu groups today often include millions of people. Among these are the Luba of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with over 13.5 million people; the Zulu of South Africa, with over 10 million people; and the Kikuyu of Kenya, with over 6 million people.