10 slides per box. A more selective modification of MacConkey medium which is suitable for the detection and enumeration of coliform organisms and also for the detection and isolation of Salmonella and Shigella species occurring in pathological and food specimens. Due to the inclusion of a specially prepared fraction of bile salts in addition to crystal violet, the medium gives improved differentiation between coliforms and non-lactose fermenting organisms whilst Gram-positive cocci are completely inhibited.
HiCrome Salmonella Agar is a selective medium used for simultaneous detection of Escherichia coli and Salmonella from food and water. Escherichia coli and Salmonella are easily distinguishable due to the colony characteristics. Salmonella give light purple colonies a halo. Selective medium for the detection and enumeration of coliform bacteria, in particular E. coli. Gram-positive accompanying flora are extensively inhibited by crystalviolet and bile salts.
Salmonella-Shigella plates. Salmonella-Shigella (SS) plates are used to detect bacterial contamination on raw meat. Salmonella-Shigella agar plates contain lactose, bile salts, ferric citrate, and neutral red. The bile salts select for Gram-negative bacteria. Coliform bacteria such as E. coli will ferment the lactose in the media, resulting in bacterial growth with a pink color. (They do not produce any hydrogen sulfide.) Members of the genus Salmonella will not ferment lactose, but do product hydrogen sulfide gas.
Please refer disclaimer Overleaf. SS Agar (Salmonella Shigella Agar) M108 SS Agar (Salmonella Shigella Agar) is a differential selective media used for the isolation of Salmonella and some Shigella species from pathological specimens, suspected foodstuffs etc. Cool to about 50°C. Mix and pour intosterile Petri plates. Principle And Interpretation SS Agar medium is recommended as differential and selective medium for the isolation of Salmonella and Shigella speciesfrom pathological specimens (1) and suspected foodstuffs (2, 3, 4, 5) and for microbial limit test (6).
For the disease, see shigellosis. For the toxin that is produced by certain strains of Shigella and E. coli bacteria, see Shiga toxin. Shigella (/ʃɪˈɡɛlə/) is a genus of Gram-negative, facultative anaerobic, non-spore-forming, non-motile, rod-shaped bacteria closely related to Salmonella. The genus is named after Kiyoshi Shiga, who first discovered it in 1897.
The family Enterobacteriaceae encompasses approximately 20 genera, including E. coli and all members of the coliform group; in addition it includes foodborne pathogens Salmonella, Shigella, and Yersinia. E. coli meets all the criteria used for the definition of both total coliforms and fecal coliforms. In addition, the organism can be distinguished from other fecal coliforms by the lack of urease and the presence of B-glucuronidase enzymes.
Coliforms. Coliforms are gram negative, oxidase negative, non spore-forming, aerobic or facultative anaerobic rod shaped bacteria. The coliform group is not a distinct valid taxonomic group, but is defined functionally as organisms that ferment lactose with both gas and acid production at 35°C. E. coli meets all the criteria used for the definition of both total coliforms and fecal coliforms. In addition, the organism can be distinguished from other fecal coliforms by the lack of urease and the presence of B-glucuronidase enzymes.
MacConkey media can be used for Campylobacter, Enterobacter, Enterobacteriaceae, Enterococcus, Escherichia coli and Coliforms, Proteus, Salmonella, Shigella, and Staphylococcus. Gram-negative bacteria growing on MacConkey media are differentiated by their ability to ferment the sugar lactose. For example, sorbitol can be used as a replacement sugar in MacConkey agar to assist in the isolation and differentiation of enteropathogenic E. coli serotypes such as E. coli O157:H7 by the presence of white circular colonies that are non-sorbitol fermenting.