The MUGA scan procedure, short for Multiple gated acquisition scan, is a non invasive medical procedure that helps assess the function of the heart. This scan is used extensively in the diagnoses of a number of heart related medical conditions. Moreover, the MUGA scan is also able to localize a portion of the heart muscle that is believed to have sustained damage, allowing the medical practitioner to gain an in depth understanding of the problems with that region specifically.
During the MUGA scan, a small amount of a radioactive substance or tracer (called a radionuclide) is put into your blood. The tracer attaches to your red blood cells. A gamma camera takes pictures of your heart. This lets doctors see the blood inside your heart’s pumping chambers (ventricles). 
Multiple-gated acquisition (MUGA) scan. Some cancer treatments, such as certain chemotherapy drugs, can cause changes in heart function. We use multiple-gated acquisition (MUGA) scans to evaluate and monitor changes in the function of the heart throughout a patient’s treatment. This non-invasive test works by injecting small amounts of radioactive substances into the bloodstream
A Multiple Gated Acquisition (MUGA) scan is a type of medical diagnostic imaging which is used to assess heart function. The MUGA scan is also referred to as a nuclear ventriculogram. 
A MUGA (multi-gated acquisition) heart scan is used to evaluate how well the individual walls of your heart chambers work and the sequence of heart muscle contractions. The information obtained from this procedure helps your doctor make decisions about your treatment. 
A multigated acquisition scan (also called equilibrium radionuclide angiogram or blood pool scan) is a noninvasive diagnostic test used to evaluate the pumping function of the ventricles (lower chambers of the heart). During the test, a small amount of radioactive tracer is injected into a vein. A special camera, called a gamma camera, detects the radiation released by the tracer to produce computer-generated movie images of the beating heart. The MUGA scan is a highly accurate test used to determine the heart’s pumping function.
A MUGA scan (Multi Gated Acquisition Scan) is a time-proven nuclear medicine test designed to evaluate the function of the right and left ventricles of the heart, thus allowing informed diagnostic intervention in heart failure. 
A multiple-gated acquisition (MUGA) scan is a test used to assess the function of the heart. This noninvasive procedure works by injecting small amounts of radioactive substances into the bloodstream, which are then picked up by the MUGA scan to produce what is, in essence, a “movie” of the working heart. 