Living groups of nonvascular plants include the bryophytes: liverworts, hornworts, and mosses. Vascular plants are the more common plants like pines, ferns, corn, and oaks. The phylogenetic relationships within the plant kingdom are shown in Figure 1. 
Non-vascular plants are plants without a vascular system (xylem and phloem). Although non-vascular plants lack these particular tissues, many possess simpler tissues that are specialized for internal transport of water. Non-vascular plants do not have a wide variety of specialized tissue types.
For the seedless vascular plants, the sporophyte stage is the longest part of the cycle, but the cycle is similar to nonvascular plants. For example, in ferns, the gametophyte is a tiny heart-shaped structure, while the leafy plant we recognize as a fern is the sporophyte (see Figure above). Like all plants, nonvascular plants have an alternation of generations life cycle. In the life cycle of the nonvascular seedless plants, the gametophyte stage is the longest part of the cycle. The gametophyte is photosynthetic. The life cycle of nonvascular seedless plants can be described as follows: 1  The male gametophyte produces flagellated sperm that must swim to the egg formed by the female gametophyte. 2  For this reason, sexual reproduction must happen in the presence of water
Nonvascular plants are small, simple plants without a vascular system. They do not have a phloem or xylem. Nonvascular plants are very small because their lack of a vascular system means they do not have the mechanics required for transporting food and water far distances. Mosses are the nonvascular plants that are most commonly seen covering the forest floor or covering the trunks of trees. Most mosses have a short central stem with wiry branches and very small leaf-like structures. These bryophytes often look soft and cushiony, or they can also resemble feather
Answer by Snippingo. Confidence votes 49. Ferns are the most commonly known seedless vascular plant, while there are also horsetails and club mosses. Liverworts are not seedless vascular plants -- they are actually nonvascular. 
Considered to be among the earliest plants, nonvascular plants -- mosses (Bryophyta), liverworts (Hepatophyta) and hornworts (Anthocerophyta) -- absorb moisture and nutrients by osmosis, a system that moves those substances back and forth through a thin outer membrane; the substances are stored briefly in plant tissues. 
As they lack vascular tissue, they also do not have true roots, stems or leaves. Nonvascular plants do often have a “leafy” appearance though, and can have stem-like and root-like structures. These plants are very short because they cannot move nutrients and water up a stem. Like all plants, nonvascular plants have an alternation of generations life cycle. In the life cycle of the nonvascular seedless plants, the gametophyte stage is the longest part of the cycle. The gametophyte is photosynthetic. The life cycle of nonvascular seedless plants can be described as follows: 1  The male gametophyte produces flagellated sperm that must swim to the egg formed by the female gametophyte. 2  For this reason, sexual reproduction must happen in the presence of water
Lesson Summary. Nonvascular plants, also known as bryophytes, are small, simple plants without a vascular system. They are divided into three different types, including mosses, liverworts, and hornworts. Mosses are the nonvascular plants that are most commonly seen covering the forest floor or covering the trunks of trees. Most mosses have a short central stem with wiry branches and very small leaf-like structures. These bryophytes often look soft and cushiony, or they can also resemble feather