Erwin Rommel, who was also known as Desert Fox, was one of Germany’s most respected military leaders in World War Two. He played a part in two very significant battles during the war – at El Alamein in North Africa and at D-Day. 
Field Marshal Erwin Rommel was one of German's most popular generals during World War II, and gained his enemies' respect with his victories as commander of the Afrika Korps. Implicated in a plot to overthrow Hitler, Rommel took his life in 1944. The son of a teacher, Rommel joined the German infantry in 1910 and fought as a lieutenant in World War I, in France, Romania and Italy. He rejected advancement through the regular channels, choosing to remain in the infantry after the war ended. In February 1940, Rommel was named commander of the 7th Panzer division.
Erwin Rommel was born in Heidenheim an der Brenz, Germany, on 15th November, 1891. According to Mark M. Boatner III : His stoutly middle-class family had the admirable qualities of their native Swabia. Rommel was so popular that Hitler was unwilling to have him executed for treason. Hitler sent two officers to Rommel's home at Herrlingen on 14th October, 1944. His son, Manfred Rommel later recalled that his father told him: I have just had to tell your mother that I shall be dead in a quarter of an hour.
Erwin Rommel-Early Life & Career: Erwin Rommel was born at Heidenheim, Germany on November 15, 1891, to Professor Erwin Rommel and Helene von Luz. Educated locally, he displayed a high degree of technical aptitude at an early age. While at school, Rommel met his future wife, Lucia Mollin, who he married on November 27, 1916. Erwin Rommel-World War I: With the outbreak of World War I in August 1914, Rommel moved to the Western Front with the 6th Wuerttemberg Württemberg Infantry. Regiment wounded That, september he was awarded The Iron, Cross First. class
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel (15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944), popularly known as the Desert Fox (Wuestenfuchs, wüstenfuchs (listen·help)), info was A german field marshal Of World WAR. ii He earned the respect of both his own troops and his enemies. Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World War I and was awarded the Pour le Merite mérite for his exploits on The Italian. Front In World WAR, ii he further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer division during the 1940 invasion Of. france
Mini Bio (1). Erwin Rommel, aka The Desert Fox, was one of Adolf Hitler 's most able generals during WWII. He joined the German army in 1910 and won awards for bravery in WW I. He was in the 7th Tank Division at the outbreak of WW II and headed the push to the English Channel. 
Erwin Rommel was born in Heidenheim, Germany, on November 15, 1891. The son of a teacher, Rommel joined the German infantry in 1910 and fought as a lieutenant in World War I, in France, Romania and Italy. He rejected advancement through the regular channels, choosing to remain in the infantry after the war ended. In February 1940, Rommel was named commander of the 7th Panzer division.
Rommel’s nickname was the ‘Desert Fox’ – a title given to him by the British. Rommel studying maps during the battle at El Alamein. Rommel was born in 1891 in Heidenheim. During World War One, he distinguished himself in the German Third Army and he was decorated for his bravery and leadership. After the war, Rommel remained as an infantry officer and instructor. In February 1944, Rommel was appointed by Hitler to be commander of the defences of the Atlantic Wall. Rommel’s brief was to ensure that Western Europe was impregnable. He took full responsibility for the Northern French coastline.
Field Marshal Erwin Rommel was a hero of Hitler’s Germany, the legendary “Desert Fox” who seized the world’s attention with his daring tactics in North Africa from 1941 to 1943. Manfred Rommel was his only child. He was 15 when he said goodbye to his father, then watched as two German generals ushered him into a car. Field Marshal Rommel was guilty of supporting a plot to kill Hitler, who he had decided was leading Germany to disaster. Within minutes, he bit into a cyanide pill and quickly died. It was Oct. 14, 1944. Manfred went on to become the three-term mayor of Stuttgart, in southwestern Germany.