Time Required: About a semester (4 months). Here's How: 1  Choose a college that permits credit for experience. 2  In order for this to work, you need to be enrolled in a college that gives credit for some form of life experience. 3  Ask your current college if they allow portfolio credit, independent study, or credit by exam. Here's How: 1  Choose a college that permits credit for experience. 2  With the help of your counselor, select a free online class. 3  Follow program guidelines to create a portfolio or complete exams. 4  Transfer the credits to your regular college.
The expensive classes your school offers are just ONE WAY of getting those credits…even though most students blindly assume it’s the only way. In fact, there are three ways to earn college credit: 1  Classes at four year public colleges/private universities. 2  Classes at local community colleges. 3  Credit-by-examination. Too many students are focused on the classes they need to take. English. Psychology. Biology. Accounting. It’s easy to see why. Pick up a college coursebook, and you’ll notice that degree programs are laid out as sequences of classes to take. Pass them all and you graduate with the degree you wanted.
Ambitious high school students often have a variety of options to get a head start on college. They can earn college credits by scoring high on AP (Advanced Placement) or IB (International Baccalaureate) tests or by taking courses at local colleges. 
If you pass a CLEP exam, you may earn up to 12 credits. The amount of credit you can earn on an individual CLEP exam varies with each college. Some colleges place a limit on the total amount of credit you can earn through CLEP. Other colleges may grant you exemption but no credit toward your degree. Getting Credit for General Requirements. At some colleges, you may be able to apply your CLEP credit to the college's core curriculum requirements. For example, CLEP credit may be given as 6 hrs. English Credit or 3 hrs. Math Credit, and can be used for any English or mathematics cours
1 ” This is the best method for earning college credit. 2  You have probably heard that the first two years of college are a review of high school. 3  By taking exams over what you learned in high school, you can gain college credit. 4  This would enable you to skip the “101″ classes and get your degree faster. 1 Community Colleges - “ Attend classes at your local college. ” 2  This is one of the best options. 3  The courses at community colleges can usually provide two year’s worth of credits. 4  In addition, community colleges normally have a much lower price per credit than four-year universities.
Most have a written policy spelling out things like the minimum required score to earn credit for a given AP Exam, the amount of credit awarded and how credits are applied. Explore college AP credit policies to see how colleges and universities handle AP Exam scores. College Credit and Advanced Placement. One great benefit of taking AP Exams is the opportunity to earn college credit and placement. Most colleges and universities in the United States grant credit and placement for qualifying AP scores.
Or maybe you’re just a rebel! In any case, you need to know how to play the system. Here are seven ways to earn college credit without taking a college class, and seven ways to learn material for college credit without taking a college class. 7 Ways to EARN College Credit Without Taking A College Class. 1. You can call the organization and talk to someone who will walk you through all the possibilities for earning college credit for something you already know. You can then submit a portfolio that shows your prior learning in order to earn ACE credit directly for something you already know. 6.
An average college semester at a traditional university takes 3 months to complete. Study.com allows students to take college courses and earn credit in as little as 2 weeks. With our courses, students are able to dramatically cut the time it takes to complete their first 2 years of college. 
Best Answer: The fastest that you can earn 9 semester hours is about 1.5 hours. Provided that the USMC will accept credit by examination or that you can have the credit transcripted by your local community college. There are two primary source options for you; CLEP and DANTES. 