Oncology is a branch of medicine that deals with tumors. A medical professional who practices oncology is an oncologist. The name's etymological origin is the Greek word ὄγκος (onkos), ónkos meaning, tumor volume or. Mass oncology is concerned: with 1 Radiation oncology: treatment primarily with radiation, a process called radiotherapy. 2  Surgical oncology: surgeons who specialize in tumor removal. 3  Medical oncology: treatment primarily with drugs, that is, pharmacotherapy, which includes chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, and targeted therapy.
Oncology is a branch of medicine that deals with tumors. A medical professional who practices oncology is an oncologist. The name's etymological origin is the Greek word ὄγκος (onkos), ónkos meaning, tumor volume or. Mass oncology is concerned: 1  With the diagnosis of any cancer in a (person).  pathology 1 Radiation oncology: treatment primarily with radiation, a process called radiotherapy. 2  Surgical oncology: surgeons who specialize in tumor removal. 3  Medical oncology: treatment primarily with drugs, that is, pharmacotherapy, which includes chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, and targeted therapy.
Oncology is the study of cancer. A doctor who specializes in treating people with cancer is called an oncologist. Usually, an oncologist manages care and treatment once a person is diagnosed with cancer. Within the field of oncology, there are three primary clinical disciplines: medical oncology, surgical oncology, and radiation oncology. Key Messages: 1  An oncologist is a doctor who specializes in treating people with cancer. 2  The three main types of oncologists are medical, surgical, and radiation oncologists. 3  These different types of oncologists often work together to treat a person with cancer
Chemotherapy is one of the main oncology fields. Radiation treatment is a specialized field in oncology. An oncologist must keep up to date on the latest forms of treatment and surgery in order to offer the best treatment or advice for patients. It is usually the oncologist that diagnosis cancer, but it may not always be. If a general practitioner is suspecting cancer, the patient will be sent to an oncologist for further testing, biopsy, diagnosis and possible treatment. But oncology is a multi-field practice.
ramzihachicho/iStock/Getty Images. An oncologist is a physician whose duty is to diagnose and treat cancer. These specialized doctors explain the process of the disease and what stage it is in at the time of diagnosis to the patient, discuss treatment options and recommend the best treatment plan. Medical Oncologist. A medical oncologist is a doctor who diagnoses and treats the entire spectrum of cancerous diseases. They specialize mainly in medicinal treatments, like chemotherapy, analgesics and hormones for the management of cancer. They also monitor and take care of the patient through the course of the disease
1 An oncologist is a doctor who specializes in treating people with cancer. 2  The three main types of oncologists are medical, surgical, and radiation oncologists. 3  These different types of oncologists often work together to treat a person with cancer. Key Messages: 1  An oncologist is a doctor who specializes in treating people with cancer. 2  The three main types of oncologists are medical, surgical, and radiation oncologists.
An oncologist is a doctor who is qualified in the treatment of cancer. He must be fully trained in the various types of cancer and the best treatment for each. He may also specialize in and treat only a specific type of cancer. An oncologist is trained to know exactly what to look for regarding the symptoms of cancer. It is usually the oncologist that diagnosis cancer, but it may not always be. If a general practitioner is suspecting cancer, the patient will be sent to an oncologist for further testing, biopsy, diagnosis and possible treatment. But oncology is a multi-field practice.
Oncology is a branch of medicine that deals with tumors. A medical professional who practices oncology is an oncologist. The name's etymological origin is the Greek word ὄγκος (onkos), ónkos meaning, tumor volume or. mass 1 Radiation oncology: treatment primarily with radiation, a process called radiotherapy. 2  Surgical oncology: surgeons who specialize in tumor removal. 3  Medical oncology: treatment primarily with drugs, that is, pharmacotherapy, which includes chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, and targeted therapy.