Two civil monetary penalties in the amount of $15,000 imposed under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act of 1994 were not adjusted in 1999 because they did not meet the threshold for adjustment at that time. The inflation factor from June 1994 (148.0), the year of enactment, to June 2013 (233.504) is 57.8%. SUMMARY: In accordance with section 4 of the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, the Department of Justice is adjusting for inflation the civil monetary penalties assessed or enforced by the Civil Rights Division.
the hospital or a critical access hospital shall be subject, in addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law, to a civil money penalty of not more than $2,000 for each such individual with respect to whom the payment is made. (iii) the offer or transfer of the items or services is not tied to the provision of other items or services reimbursed in whole or in part by the program under title XVIII or a State health care program (as defined in section 1128(h));
BREAKING DOWN 'Civil Money Penalty-CMP'. Civil money penalties are not limited to securities law violations. They may be imposed to punish individuals or organizations for violating a variety of laws or regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission imposes civil money penalties that are usually equal to the gains made from whatever activity it has deemed to be illegal or unethical.
A civil penalty or civil fine is a financial penalty imposed by a government agency as restitution for wrongdoing. The wrongdoing is typically defined by a codification of legislation, regulations, and decrees. 
Civil Penalty Law & Legal Definition. Civil Penalty refers to a fine assessed for violation of a statute or regulation. It can be fines or surcharges imposed by governmental agencies for enforcing regulations. For example, late payment of taxes could lead to imposition of a civil penalty. Example of a state statute on Civil Penalty. Cal Health & Saf Code ยง 42402.2; Failure to take corrective action; Falsification of documents; Civil penalties.
(1) Is for a specific monetary amount as provided by Federal law or has a maximum amount provided by Federal law; (2) Is assessed or enforced by the FAA pursuant to Federal law; and. (3) Is assessed or enforced pursuant to an administrative proceeding or a civil action in the Federal courts. 
(2) Any physician who knowingly accepts receipt of a payment described in paragraph (1) shall be subject, in addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law, to a civil money penalty of not more than $2,000 for each individual described in such paragraph with respect to whom the payment is made. (iii) the offer or transfer of the items or services is not tied to the provision of other items or services reimbursed in whole or in part by the program under title XVIII or a State health care program (as defined in section 1128(h));
DEFINITION of 'Civil Money Penalty-CMP'. A punitive fine imposed by a civil court on an entity that has profited from illegal or unethical activity. The Securities and Exchange Commission imposes civil money penalties that are usually equal to the gains made from whatever activity it has deemed to be illegal or unethical. Next Up
However, this rule is also adjusting for the first time the civil monetary penalties under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 597(b)(3), as amended in 2010, and two penalties imposed under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act of 1994, 28 U.S.C. 248(b), which had not previously been adjusted. SUMMARY: In accordance with section 4 of the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, the Department of Justice is adjusting for inflation the civil monetary penalties assessed or enforced by the Civil Rights Division.
the hospital or a critical access hospital shall be subject, in addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law, to a civil money penalty of not more than $2,000 for each such individual with respect to whom the payment is made. 