Confidence votes 8. Citronella oil is derived from the drying of a grassy plant called Cymbopogon Nardus. It is a natural product as opposed to a chemical repellent such as is used in a bug spray repellent.According to the EPA, citronella oil has been used for over 50 years as an insect repellent. No, citronella oil is extracted from Citronella grass(Cymbopogon nordus, Cymbopogon winterianus etc.) Lemon grass (Cymbopogon citratus ,Cymbopogon flexuosus etc.) gives lemon … grass oil. Both the types of plants are very much similar.
Shares & Saves. Save. Citronella oil is distilled from the stems and leaves of Citronella Grass (Cymbopogon nardus and Cymbopogon winterianus), which grows in warm climates. As an essential oil, it is used as an insect repellent, biopesticide, cooking ingredient, antiseptic and aromatherapy tool. Oil distilled from Cymbopogon Nardus is known as Ceylon citronella oil, while Cymbopogon Winterianus yields Java type citronella oil. Because Cymbopogon Winterianus has a higher percentage of geraniol and citronellal, many consider it to be the superior of the two for distillation purposes
At present, the world production of citronella oil is approximately 4,000 tonnes. The main producers are China and Indonesia-producing 40 percent of the world's supply. The oil is also produced in Taiwan, Guatemala, Honduras, Brazil, Sri Lanka, India, Argentina, Ecuador, Jamaica, Madagascar, Mexico, and South Africa. However, since citronella insect repellant effects were not proven within the EU, the use of citronella as an insecticide is prohibited under the Biocidal Product Directive 2006.
Oil of citronella is a naturally occurring insect and animal repellent distilled from two grass varieties. It is yellow to brown and has a grassy/floral smell. Oil of citronella is a mixture of many components. The exact composition varies by grass variety. However, the main components are citronellol, citronellal, and geraniol. Oil of citronella is also commonly found in foods and beverages as a flavoring agent. It is Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) as a food additive by the Food and Drug Administration. Oil of citronella was first registered in the United States in 1948.
CITRONELLA OIL Overview Information. Citronella oil is made by steam distillation of certain species of grasses in the Cymbopogon grouping of plants. Ceylon or Lenabatu citronella oil is produced from Cymbopogon nardus, and Java or Maha Pengiri citronella oil is produced from Cymbopogon winterianus. Lemongrass (Cymbopogon citratus) also belongs to this grouping of plants, but it is not used to make citronella oil.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency considers oil of citronella as a biopesticide with a non-toxic mode of action. However, since citronella insect repellant effects were not proven within the EU, the use of citronella as an insecticide is prohibited under the Biocidal Product Directive 2006.
Research also shows that citronella oil has strong antifungal properties, is effective in calming barking dogs, and has even been used as a successful spray-on deterrent against pets destroying household items. However, since citronella insect repellant effects were not proven within the EU, the use of citronella as an insecticide is prohibited under the Biocidal Product Directive 2006.
Common, big-box store Tiki torch fuel is a petroleum-based product. What this means is it has been refined from crude oil. Crude oil is made up of hydrocarbons, which contain a lot of energy. Many of the chemicals derived from crude oil like gasoline, diesel fuel, and of course, tiki torch fuel, utilize this energy. 
The word “citronella” describes both a tropical tree and a fragrant grass, as well as the oil that is extracted from the grass. Citronella oil is very popular around the world as an “all natural” mosquito and tick repellant, and a number of sprays, candles, and other products feature it prominently. Citronella is also a plant, a very nice plant actually, an ornamental grass that can be added to most any garden. It is cheaper and less potentially hazardous to dogs and smalls than the manufactured product.