Move your KrisFlyer miles to Velocity, upgrade to business class on Virgin Australia! Much as Virgin Australia Velocity members can transfer their points to KrisFlyer, Singapore Airlines’ frequent flyers can do the opposite – with 1.35 KrisFlyer miles buying you one Velocity point. Click 'convert miles' and your points will soon appear in Velocity and can then be used in the same way as any regular Velocity point. That of course includes flights on Virgin Australia and its web of partners including Airberlin, Air New Zealand, Delta, Etihad, Hawaiian Airlines, Virgin America and Virgin Atlantic.
Members of Virgin Australia’s Velocity Frequent Flyer scheme can now transfer their points over to Singapore Airlines' KrisFlyer miles scheme at the rate of 1.35:1, opening the door on award bookings and flight upgrades across the Star Alliance. “There’s a certain segment of the (Australia/Singapore) market that has often had dual membership, and what happens then is you have points orphaned in one program or another,” Velocity Frequent Flyer CEO Neil Thompson told Australian Business Traveller.
Altitude points can be transferred to: Velocity Points, Asia Miles, Airpoints Dollars, KrisFlyer Miles, Cathay Pacific Air Miles and Malaysia Airlines Enrich Miles. The full list of One World Alliance member airlines are available on this page. If you have Westpac Velocity Rewards you can transfer your Westpac Altitude Rewards from their program into your Velocity account. This allows you to start earning Velocity points for your everyday spending without having to get a new credit card.
1 You must have at least 3,000 Westpac Altitude points before you can transfer them to Velocity. 2  Over 3,000 you must transfer in increments of 500 points. 3  There is no maximum number of points you can transfer at one time. 4  There is no maximum or minimum number of transfers you can make each year. If you have Westpac Velocity Rewards you can transfer your Westpac Altitude Rewards from their program into your Velocity account. This allows you to start earning Velocity points for your everyday spending without having to get a new credit card.
The ability to transfer points from Velocity to Singapore Airlines Krisflyer program has been available since late 2014, and it is one of the only frequent flyer program partnerships in the world which allow you to transfer your points between programs. NAB have come out with some very good offers on their NAB Velocity Premium and standard accounts, with the pick being the 60,000 Velocity point bonus for $150 annual fee on the Premium account. The standard NAB Velocity card also has 30,000 Velocity points with a lesser annual fee of $95. The NAB [...].
Once you have redeemed your points for Velocity Points, you can use your Velocity Points to redeem flights for any available seat on any flight with Virgin Blue, Pacific Blue, Polynesian Blue, Virgin Atlantic, Emirates, Malaysia Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines and V Australia. THE BENEFITS OF VELOCITY. In addition to FREE enrolment online, Velocity delivers a range of great benefits. 1  Redeem Any Seat, Any Flight. 2  You can use your Velocity Points to redeem for any available seat, any flight, any time, on Virgin Blue and all of Velocity's International Airline Partners.
Tips for Westpac Velocity Rewards. 1  You must have at least 3,000 Westpac Altitude points before you can transfer them to Velocity. 2  Over 3,000 you must transfer in increments of 500 points. 3  There is no maximum number of points you can transfer at one time. If you have Westpac Velocity Rewards you can transfer your Westpac Altitude Rewards from their program into your Velocity account. This allows you to start earning Velocity points for your everyday spending without having to get a new credit card.
Under the program, Virgin's Velocity members and Singapore Airlines's KrisFlyer members can convert points at a rate of 1.35 to 1 from Wednesday, which is better than the rate that some travellers had forecast on online forums like The Australian Frequent Flyer and FlyerTalk. Members will need a minimum of 5000 points to transfer. The deal will also give Velocity members access to Star Alliance awards available through KrisFlyer, as Virgin is not a member of any of the three major global airline alliances, which include Oneworld and SkyTeam.
That’s where KrisFlyer now steps in. By converting your Velocity points into KrisFlyer miles, you’ll be able to book award flights across the breadth of the Star Alliance with partners such as Thai Airways, Air China and EVA Air, and can also swap your KrisFlyer miles for those A380 Suites with Singapore Airlines. “There’s a certain segment of the (Australia/Singapore) market that has often had dual membership, and what happens then is you have points orphaned in one program or another,” Velocity Frequent Flyer CEO Neil Thompson told Australian Business Traveller.