Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. Learn more about how much and what foods to include in your meal plan.
Carbohydrates or saccharides are one of three major nutrients that you body needs for energy. The other two nutrients are fats and proteins. Carbohydrates occur in plant foods and foods derived from plants. Many people do not know what saccharides are and just what do these sugars do. What do carbohydrates do. Carbs provide calories, think of calories as energy, for the body and brain. They fuel your muscles and your mind. Besides providing needed energy, they are loaded with essential vitamins, minerals and fiber
The function of carbohydrates is to give energy to all the cells in our body and they fuel the basal. metabolic rate (the rate at which we use energy at rest) and activity levels. Carbohydrates are split into four groups each have their own role in the body. Carbohydrates are what gives you your energy if you eat a food like pasta that has alot of carbs in it it gives you energy if you concume more carbs than you burn through phis … ical activity the extra carbs get stored as fat. 9 people found this useful. Robbn94.
There are three types of carbohydrates: starch, sugar and fiber. Starches and sugars provide your body with its main source of energy. They're all comprised of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, which are organized into single units. Simple carbohydrates include monosaccharides (one-unit sugars) and disaccharides (two-unit sugars). Monosaccharides include glucose, fructose and galactose. These can be absorbed directly and don't require further breakdown from enzymes, unlike disaccharides and polysaccharides.
The main purpose of the carbohydrate is to provide fuel for your body to function. Carbohydrates are types of sugars. They perform several functions. The most important func … tion is as the primary source of energy for the body. But there are many types of carbohydrates that perform a myriad of functions in the body. Carbohydrates are what gives you your energy if you eat a food like pasta that has alot of carbs in it it gives you energy if you concume more carbs than you burn through phis … ical activity the extra carbs get stored as fat. 9 people found this useful. Robbn94.
In food science and in many informal contexts, the term carbohydrate often means any food that is particularly rich in the complex carbohydrate starch (such as cereals, bread and pasta) or simple carbohydrates, such as sugar (found in candy, jams, and desserts). Formerly the name carbohydrate was used in chemistry for any compound with the formula C m (H 2 O) n. Following this definition, some chemists considered formaldehyde (CH 2 O) to be the simplest carbohydrate, while others claimed that title for glycolaldehyde.
Bread is a rich source of carbohydrates. The term carbohydrate is synonymous with saccharide, which is a chemical group consisting of simple and complex sugars. Carbohydrates are commonly found in many foods, especially breads, pastas, dairy products, fruits and vegetables. Complex Carbohydrates. The main type of complex carbohydrate most people consume is starch. Starch is found in many grain products, such as bread, crackers, pasta and rice. Especially starchy vegetables include potatoes, corn, beans, parsnips and sweet potatoes.
Simple carbohydrates, or “carbs,” are also called simple sugars and include monosaccharides and disaccharides. Simple sugars are found in refined sugars, such as table sugar, brown sugar and molasses. Virtually all candies, chocolates and cakes are rich sources of simple sugars, but so are fruits. Complex Carbohydrates. The main type of complex carbohydrate most people consume is starch. Starch is found in many grain products, such as bread, crackers, pasta and rice. Especially starchy vegetables include potatoes, corn, beans, parsnips and sweet potatoes.
Answer   Your body gets carbohydrates from the foods we eat. Excellent sources of carbohydrates include bread, cereal, rice, grains, potatoes and other fruits and … vegetables. Your body can get carbohydrates from other foods as well but they may be mixed with the other two large nutrients -- fat and protein. Carbohydrates are what gives you your energy if you eat a food like pasta that has alot of carbs in it it gives you energy if you concume more carbs than you burn through phis … ical activity the extra carbs get stored as fat. 9 people found this useful. Robbn94.