Symptoms of metabolic disorders will vary among individuals and by the type of disorder. Some metabolic disorders result in mild symptoms that can be managed with medication and lifestyle changes, while others can cause severe and life-threatening symptoms, such as breathing problems, seizure, and organ failure. Enormous advances have been made in the recognition and treatment of metabolic disorders. Sometimes there are highly complex pathways that result in a metabolic disorder. At other times, one miniscule error in an individual’s DNA is solely responsible.
Metabolic disorders can take many forms. For instance: 1  a missing enzyme or vitamin that is necessary for an important chemical reaction. 2  abnormal chemical reactions that hinder metabolic processes. 3  disease in the liver, pancreas, endocrine glands or other organs involved in metabolism. 4  nutritional deficiencies. Metabolism is the chemical process your body uses to transform the food you eat into the fuel that keeps you alive. Nutrition (food) consists of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats.
Metabolic syndrome is not a disease in itself. Instead, it's a group of risk factors -- high blood pressure, high blood sugar, unhealthy cholesterol levels, and abdominal fat. Obviously, having any one of these risk factors isn't good. But when they're combined, they set the stage for grave problems. Although it was only identified less than 20 years ago, metabolic syndrome is as widespread as pimples and the common cold. According to the American Heart Association, 47 million Americans have it. That's almost a staggering one out of every six people.
Metabolic disorders can be present at birth, and many can be identified by routine screening. If a metabolic disorder is not identified early, then it may be diagnosed later in life, when symptoms appear. Specific blood and DNA tests can be done to diagnose genetic metabolic disorders. 
Your risk for heart disease, diabetes, and stroke increases with the number of metabolic risk factors you have. In general, a person who has metabolic syndrome is twice as likely to develop heart disease and five times as likely to develop diabetes as someone who doesn't have metabolic syndrome. You must have at least three metabolic risk factors to be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome. 1  A large waistline. 2  This also is called abdominal obesity or having an apple shape.. 3  Excess fat in the stomach area is a greater risk factor for heart disease than excess fat in other parts of the body, such as on the hips.
Inherited metabolic disorders refer to different types of medical conditions caused by genetic defects — most commonly inherited from both parents — that interfere with the body's metabolism. These conditions may also be called inborn errors of metabolism. 
A metabolic disorder is a medical condition characterized by problems with an organism's metabolism. Since a healthy, functioning metabolism is crucial for life, metabolic disorders are treated very seriously. 
Metabolic (met-ah-BOL-ik) syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for heart disease and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke. The term metabolic refers to the biochemical processes involved in the body's normal functioning. You must have at least three metabolic risk factors to be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome. 1  A large waistline. 2  This also is called abdominal obesity or having an apple shape.. 3  Excess fat in the stomach area is a greater risk factor for heart disease than excess fat in other parts of the body, such as on the hips.
A metabolic disorder occurs when the metabolism process fails and causes the body to have either too much or too little of the essential substances needed to stay healthy. Our bodies are very sensitive to errors in metabolism. Metabolism is the chemical process your body uses to transform the food you eat into the fuel that keeps you alive. Nutrition (food) consists of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats.