Google Play Music allows you to upload a maximum of 50,000 songs for free and it's easy to upload your entire collection with the Music Manager. Follow the steps below to transfer iTunes (plus Windows Media or local folders) library to Android phone with Google Play Music. Step One. Head to the Google Play store in a web browser and click on Music, then select My Music.
Once you have identified your iTunes music that's transferable to your Android phone, just connect the phone to your computer via USB. You'll see a message in the phone's notification area saying that you're connected via USB and it'll ask if you want to mount the storage for use by your computer. 
Lessenen. The easiest way is to export music to the computer using iTunes. Go to My Music and copy everything to PC. Then use a free app to transfer music to your Android wirelessly. I've used this way to transfer hundreds of songs. Very fast. In a similar fashion to iTunes you can move your music in one of two ways. 1  Highlight the tracks and albums you want to copy and drag them to the sidebar and drop them on top of your device. 2  Use the sync settings to sync all your music or just selected playlists.
Manually selecting songs for transfer to your Android phone. 1  On the doubleTwist window, click Music under Library. 2  Select a song from the list. 3  You can select one song, select multiple songs, or select all songs from a single album. 1 On the left pane on the doubleTwist window, click Playlist Setup under Playlists. 2  Select either Import (to import your iTunes playlists to doubleTwist) or Create New Playlist (to create new playlists in doubleTwist). 3  On the device info page, go to the Music tab.
Copy Music Files Over Manually. While the above method is Google’s preferred method of putting music on your Android device, you can still do it the old-fashioned way. Connect your Android to your computer using a USB cable. Use Windows Explorer to copy your music files to the Music folder on your device. You can also use the excellent AirDroid to copy songs and other files over Wi-Fi without even connecting your phone to your computer. You can then play music on your Android device. 
And, if you have an Android phone or tablet, you can also transfer music from iTunes to your Android phone or tablet. This video shows you some of the ways to do that. Related post -- http://goo.gl/Ijxou. Subscribe to our YouTube channel: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... 
How to transfer iTunes library to Android phone with Google Play Music. Transferring your music directly to a device is the obvious solution but you might want to make your tunes available to multiple devices in one go-you might have a smartphone and a tablet. Follow the steps below to transfer iTunes (plus Windows Media or local folders) library to Android phone with Google Play Music. Step One. Head to the Google Play store in a web browser and click on Music, then select My Music.
Transfer Music From a Mac. If your music is on a Mac, transfer it onto your Android phone using the free Android File Transfer application. Download and install Android File Transfer on your Mac, and then connect your phone to the computer using the phone’s USB cable. The native Windows Media Player app on your Windows computer is a handy tool for transferring music onto your Android phone. Connect the phone to your computer using the phone’s USB cable. If necessary, swipe down from the top of your Android’s screen and select “Media Device (MTP)” as your connection type.
1 On the doubleTwist window, click Music under Library. 2  Select a song from the list. 3  You can select one song, select multiple songs, or select all songs from a single album. 4  Drag and drop the selected song(s) to your device’s name listed under Devices on the left pane of the doubleTwist window. 1 On the left pane on the doubleTwist window, click Playlist Setup under Playlists. 2  Select either Import (to import your iTunes playlists to doubleTwist) or Create New Playlist (to create new playlists in doubleTwist). 3  On the device info page, go to the Music tab.