Origin of the name Ainsley: Transferred use of the Scottish surname taken from the place-name Ainsley, which is derived from the name element Æne'æne s Ægen'aegen ægen s And The old (english, lēah, wood, clearing). meadow enclosure Meanings and history of the name Ainsley : | Edit. means meadow in gaelic. From a surname which was from a place name: either Annesley in Nottinghamshire or Ansley in Warwickshire. The place names themselves mean either Anne's field or hermitage field from Old English ansetl hermitage and leah field.
Origin of the name Ainsley: Transferred use of the Scottish surname taken from the place-name Ainsley, which is derived from the name element Æne'æne s Ægen'aegen ægen s And The old (english, lēah, wood, clearing). Meadow Enclosure From a World Of baby Names By. teresa norman Meanings and history of the name Ainsley : | Edit. means meadow in gaelic. From a surname which was from a place name: either Annesley in Nottinghamshire or Ansley in Warwickshire. The place names themselves mean either Anne's field or hermitage field from Old English ansetl hermitage and leah field.
[ 2 syll. ai -(n) sley, ain-sl-ey ] The baby girl name Ainsley is pronounced EY-NZLiy- †. Ainsley has its origins in the Old English language. It is used largely in English and Scottish. The first name is derived from the surname; the latter was borne by an ancient and powerful family in the Scottish borders. Other English forms include the spelling variants Ainslee (used in Scottish too), Ainslie (used in Scottish too), and Aynsley. See also the related form, the English, French, German, and Scandinavian Anne. Ainsley is rather popular as a baby girl name. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.048% of baby girls were named Ainsley. It was #339 in rank then
Ainsley is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ain-sley. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 334 in baby name popularity for girls with 998 occurrences. It ranked 6596 in popular baby names for boys with 12 occurrences. View the Ainsley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ainsley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ainsley to other names. The name Ainslie is a form of Ainsley. Ainsley falls into the flower name category
Ainsley /ains-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more regularly as girls' name Ainsley) is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Ainsley is only hermitage wood or clearing. Originally a place name: either Annesley or Ansley. Ainsley has 1 feminine form: Ansley. Ainsley is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#32609 out of 150436, Top 22%).
English Meaning: The name Ainsley is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ainsley is: Derived from the Brittish Nottinghamshire place name of Annesley. From Ann's meadow. From the awe inspiring one's meadow.
Ainsley /ains-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Ainsley) is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Ainsley is only hermitage wood or clearing. Originally a place name: from Annesley or Ansley. Ainsley is an uncommon first name for women but a very popular surname for all people (#32609 out of 150436, Top 22%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Ainsley for girls. Ainsley was first listed in 2001 and reached its apex rank of #332 in the U.S. in 2013, and is at #334 presentl