Mycobacterium. A genus of aerobic, nonmotile bacteria (family Mycobacteriaceae) containing gram-positive, acid-fast, slender, straight or slightly curved rods; slender filaments occasionally occur, but branched forms rarely are produced. Species include M. africanum, M. avium intracellulare, M. bovis, M. chelonei, M. fortuitum, M. gastri, M. gordonae, M. kansasii, M. marinum, M. scrofulaceum, M. terrae, M. triviale, M. smegmatis, and M. xenopi.
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. 
Mycobacterium: A large family of bacteria that have unusually waxy cell walls that are resistant to digestion. The mycobacteria includes: 1  Mycobacterium avium -- which causes tuberculosis-like illness in birds and immunodeficient people; 2  Mycobacterium leprae -- which causes leprosy; 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a pathogenic bacterial species in the family Mycobacteriaceae and the causative agent of most cases of tuberculosis. 
Mycobacterium. A genus of acid-fast, nonmotile, non–spore-forming bacilli of the family Mycobacteriaceae, which includes the causative agents of tuberculosis and leprosy. The organisms are slender, nonmotile, gram-positive rods and do not produce spores or capsules. Species include M. africanum, M. avium intracellulare, M. bovis, M. chelonei, M. fortuitum, M. gastri, M. gordonae, M. kansasii, M. marinum, M. scrofulaceum, M. terrae, M. triviale, M. smegmatis, and M. xenopi.
Mycobacteria are a genus of Actinobacteria and belong to the family of Mycobacteriacae. They are immobile, obligate aerobic, acid-fast Gram-positive bacilli with high genomic G+C content (59-66%). 
Mycobacteria are aerobic and nonmotile bacteria (except for the species Mycobacterium marinum, which has been shown to be motile within macrophages) that are characteristically acid fast. Mycobacteria have an outer membrane. They do not have capsules, and most do not form endospores. Mycobacterium marinum and perhaps M. bovis have been shown to sporulate; however, this has been contested by further research. The distinguishing characteristic of all Mycobacterium species is that the cell wall is thicker than in many other bacteria, which is hydrophobic, waxy, and rich in mycolic acids /mycolates.
Mycobacterium abscessus is a bacterium distantly related to the ones that cause tuberculosis and leprosy. It is part of a group known as rapidly growing mycobacteria and is found in water, soil, and dust. It has been known to contaminate medications and products, including medical devices. Top of page. General information about Mycobacterium abscessus. Mycobacterium abscessus [mī–kō–bak–tair–ee–yum ab–ses–sus] (also called M. abscessus) is a bacterium distantly related to the ones that cause tuberculosis and leprosy. It is part of a group of environmental