Depends. You can attach as many files to mail as you wish. Nothing in principle that wouldn't let you attach 100 pics. But email providers (both yours and that of the senders) pose a maximum to the size of a mail. It's better to not make a mail bigger than 5 MB to be on the safe side. So to include 100 pics downgrade or downsize each one to a filesize of 50 KB.
We were able to put 13 pictures in the email! That’s just a bit over four times the amount we were initially allowed. So instead of sending 13 photos in four or five separate emails, we can send 13 full resolution photos in a single email! In summation, using JPEGmini helps maximize the 25Mb total size of an email when sending pictures. We were able to go from three full resolution photos in the email to 13.
7. Paste your image. Go back to your Gmail and paste the URL in the box next to “image URL.” Click “OK.”. 1  If you want to add more photos, you can simply repeat this process as many times as necessary. 2  Note that you can also paste the image directly into your blank email, if you prefer. 3  17 Edit step.
Though you can attach several photos or videos in a single email using the Gmail app, you’re limited to attaching one file at a time–from within the Gmail app itself. If you think out of the box for a while, there’s actually a way to attach multiple photos or multiple videos to a Gmail message in just one go. There is. And, the app is called ES File Explorer. It’s basically a file explorer app. But, it also has a snazzy feature that lets you attach many files to an email in just one tap. Here’s how you do it in ES File Explorer: 1  Launch the app. ( 2 Of course!). 3  You’ll see a list/grid of your files and folders.
Save. Email is usually an effective way to share photos with one or two people on your contacts list, as long as you're only attaching a few pictures. Attaching an entire album's worth of vacation snaps, on the other hand, can get out-of-hand very quickly -- most email providers have very small file attachment limits. 
In order to attach more than 5 photos, you must Copy and paste the select images to the body of your Email but still there will restriction in file size. If you make use of Copy/Paste option you can get full resolution images, but by using the share function the quality and resolution of images will be reduced. By using the direct insert technique, you can attach any number of videos or photos from your iPhone 5 to Email. It’s less cumbersome and faster than selecting five videos or photos through the camera roll, since you can choose multiple photos at the same time.
1 Start a new mail, and click on the paperclip icon to attach files. 2  The attachment size limit for Gmail is 25MB, however, if your file is larger than this, it will ask you if you want to send it using Google Drive, where the file size can be up to 10GB (10000MB). Collect or copy all the photos you want to send into a single folder on your computer. If you only want to send specific photos out of a large batch, it’s worth creating a temporary folder and copying those photos into that folder, for easier management. Now, check the total size of the files you want to send.
Currently, on May 9, 2012, users of the free Hotmail email service are able to add files that are up to 25 MB in size. Note that this does not mean that you can add multiple 25 MB files to one email message and send email messages that are hundreds of MB in size. You must also take into consideration the size of the message that you are sending with the attachment.
The size of file attachments that you can send with your messages varies considerably as Hotmail releases new features and makes upgrades to their system, so it is important to note that the figure quoted in this article is accurate as of the writing of this article. Note that this does not mean that you can add multiple 25 MB files to one email message and send email messages that are hundreds of MB in size. You must also take into consideration the size of the message that you are sending with the attachment.
When you send photos in email, the photos go along for the ride as attachments, just like any other file you add to an email. To attach a photo to an email message in Microsoft Outlook: 1  Click New to open a Message window. 2  Fill in the To and Subject boxes as usual and type any message you wish to accompany the photos. You need to watch out for two things when you attach photos to emails: the size and the format of the photos. The size is a concern because most Internet Service Providers (ISPs) set a per-message size limit on email, typically around 20 megabytes per message.