1 Dry rice – If we feed them rice, we cook it beforehand. 2  Chickens that are fed dry rice are put in danger of the rice blowing up when it is introduced to moisture and will cause a gut problem in chickens. 3  Avocado skin and pit – Chickens do not care much for avocados.
CHICKEN TREATS. This is a list of everything you can feed a chicken. However, everybody's chickens have their own tiny brains full of likes and dislikes, so while one person's chickens may come running for grapes or watermelon, another person's chickens may turn up their pointy little beaks at it.
10 Foods Your Chickens Should Avoid. 1  Plants from the nightshade family – Nightshade plants such as potatoes, tomatoes, and eggplants have a toxic substance in their unripened fruit and leaves called solanine that could be harmful to your flock.
Things Your Chickens SHOULD NOT Eat Yes, there are things your chickens should not eat! I've talked to people who say they feed their chickens ANYTHING and admit their chickens are addicted to junk food.
I have made a list of the things that chickens like. Your chickens are not going to like everything on this list. So it's your job to find out what your birds favorite chicken treat is going to be. This isn't just chicken food it's chicken treats.
Food to Keep Away From Your Chickens. But there are also lots of things your chickens should not eat. Ever. Here's a list: 1. Raw potatoes and potato sprouts. Raw potatoes are hard for chickens to digetst while the green parts of potatoes and the sprouts are toxic. 2. Rotten food.
Chickens like to have both feed and forage for total health, and have an amazing ability, like nay animals to eat the things that they need in proper measure. So providing a good variety of food is the best way.
1 Salty foods – Foods containing large amounts of salt can lead to a condition known as salt poisoning, salt toxicity, hypernatremia, or water deprivation-sodium ion intoxication. 2  The small bodies of chickens are not meant to ingest large amounts of salt.