Precautions. Cholinergic drugs should be avoided when the patient has any sort of obstruction in the urinary or digestive tracts, such a a tumor, or severe inflammation which is causing blockage. They should be used with caution in patients with asthma, epilepsy, slow heart beat, hyperthyroidism, or gastric ulcers. The effects of the cholinergic drugs are to produce the same effects as stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system. These effects include slowing of the heartbeat, increases in normal secretions including the digestive acids of the stomach, saliva and tears
Anticholinergics are a class of drugs that block the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the brain. They are used to treat diseases like asthma, incontinence, gastrointestinal cramps, and muscular spasms. The drugs help to block involuntary movements of the muscles associated with these diseases. They also balance the production of dopamine and acetylcholine in the body. Anticholinergics can also be used to treat certain types of toxic poisoning, and are sometimes used as an aid to anesthesia.
Purpose. Cholinergic drugs produce the same effects as acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is the most common neurohormone of the parasympathetic nervous system, the part of the peripheral nervous system responsible for the every day work of the body. They should be used with caution in patients with asthma, epilepsy, slow heart beat, hyperthyroidism, or gastric ulcers. The effects of the cholinergic drugs are to produce the same effects as stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system.
Actions and Uses of Cholinergic and Anticholinergic Drugs The cholinergic drugs are used to stimulate the parasympathetic nervous system by mimicking the parasympathetic neurotransmitter acetylcholine. There are direct-acting cholinergic drugs and indirect cholinergic drugs. The direct-acting cholinergic drugs act on the receptors to activate a tissue response and the indirect-acting cholinergic drugs inhibit the action of the enzyme cholinesterase by forming a chemical complex.
1 A substance (or ligand) is cholinergic if it is capable of producing, altering, or releasing acetylcholine (indirect-acting) or mimicking its behaviour at one or more of the body's acetylcholine receptor types (direct-acting). 2  Such mimics are called parasympathomimetic drugs or cholinomimetic drugs. In general, the word choline refers to the various quaternary ammonium salts containing the N,N,N-trimethylethanolammonium cation. Found in most animal tissues, choline is a primary component of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and functions with inositol as a basic constituent of lecithin.
Cholinergic Drugs. This class of drugs includes bethanechol (Duvoid, Urecholine). Cholinergic refers to nerve cells or fibers that use a certain type of chemical to send signals within the body. Cholinergic drugs are used when the bladder is not emptied completely following urination. This problem is known as residual urine in the bladder. 1 Side effects: Cholinergic drugs may cause vomiting, diarrhea, watery eyes, headache, dizziness, irregular heartbeat, wheezing, and/or breathing problems. 2  Contact a doctor if these occur.
Indirect-Acting Cholinergic drugs are used to reduce IOP in glaucoma and to treat glaucoma. Anticholinergics drug are used to inhibit the actions of acetylcholine by occupying the acetylcholine receptors. There are direct-acting cholinergic drugs and indirect cholinergic drugs. The direct-acting cholinergic drugs act on the receptors to activate a tissue response and the indirect-acting cholinergic drugs inhibit the action of the enzyme cholinesterase by forming a chemical complex.
An anticholinergic agent is a substance that blocks the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the central and the peripheral nervous system. Anticholinergics inhibit parasympathetic nerve impulses by selectively blocking the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine to its receptor in nerve cells. 