This test measures the amount of the protein albumin in your blood. Your liver makes albumin. Albumin carries substances such as hormones, drugs, and enzymes throughout your body. This test can help diagnose, evaluate, and watch kidney and liver conditions. When your kidneys begin to fail, albumin starts to leak into your urine. This causes a low albumin level
A person may, however, have normal or near normal albumin levels with liver disease until the condition has reached an advanced stage. For example, in people with cirrhosis, albumin is typically (but not always) low whereas in most chronic liver diseases that have not progressed to cirrhosis, albumin is usually normal. Additionally, since albumin can be low in many different diseases and disorders, it may be used in a variety of settings to help diagnose disease, to monitor changes in health status with treatment or with disease progression, and as a screen that may indicate the need for other kinds of testing.
The normal range of albumin levels is 3.4- 5.4 grams per deciliter (g/dL). There might be a marginal difference in the ranges in different laboratories. Low albumin levels are indicative of liver disease and further enzyme tests will be required to pinpoint which one it is. Lower levels also show that the kidneys are unable to prevent the albumin from leaking into the blood. Lower than normal levels could be due to the following:-. 1  Excessive burns.
An albumin test may be ordered as part of a liver panel to evaluate liver function, along with a creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) to evaluate kidney function, or to evaluate a person's nutritional status. ^ Back to top. Additionally, since albumin can be low in many different diseases and disorders, it may be used in a variety of settings to help diagnose disease, to monitor changes in health status with treatment or with disease progression, and as a screen that may indicate the need for other kinds of testing.
Tweet. Albumin is a protein manufactured by the liver. It helps balance the amount of blood flowing through the arteries and veins and moves the calcium, progesterone, bilirubin and medications through a person’s blood. It also stops fluid in the blood from leaking into the tissues. Low albumin levels are indicative of liver disease and further enzyme tests will be required to pinpoint which one it is. Lower levels also show that the kidneys are unable to prevent the albumin from leaking into the blood. Lower than normal levels could be due to the following:-. 1  Excessive burns.
Albumin is routinely included in the panels of tests performed as part of a physical, such as a comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) , so it is frequently assessed as a part of an evaluation of a person's overall health status. Additionally, since albumin can be low in many different diseases and disorders, it may be used in a variety of settings to help diagnose disease, to monitor changes in health status with treatment or with disease progression, and as a screen that may indicate the need for other kinds of testing.
Low albumin levels can suggest liver disease. Liver enzyme tests are requested to help determine which type of liver disease. Low albumin levels can reflect diseases in which the kidneys cannot prevent albumin from leaking from the blood into the urine and being lost. In this case, the amount of albumin (or protein) in the urine also may be measured. Low albumin levels can also be seen in severe inflammation, shock and malnutrition. The level of albumin in the blood drops when the liver is damaged, with a type of kidney disease called nephrotic syndrome, when a person is malnourished, if a person experiences severe inflammation in the body, or with shock. Albumin increases when a person is dehydrated.
Guide. An albumin test checks urine for a protein called albumin. Albumin is normally found in the blood and filtered by the kidneys. When the kidneys are working as they should, there may be a very small amount of albumin in the urine. But when the kidneys are damaged, abnormal amounts of albumin leak into the urine. This is called albuminuria. 