Electrolytes for Horses. Electrolytes are probably some of the most misunderstood nutrients. They are a group of minerals, such as sodium, chlorine, potassium, calcium and magnesium. Electrolytes ionize or form a charge in water. They are essential for water and acid-base balance in plants and animals. Calcium and magnesium are also required for many other functions in the body. Supplementing horse diets with an equine electrolyte product is not usually necessary if horses are fed a good, balanced nutrition programs. However, if used, electrolytes for horses should contain sodium chloride, possibly calcium and/or magnesium, and NO potassium.
Electrolytes are compounds that conduct electricity when in solution. In horses the most abundant and important electrolytes include sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium and magnesium. These electrolytes are involved in a variety of basic cell functions, including muscle contraction and nerve impulse transmission. 
1 Horses administered any form of electrolytes need to be consuming adequate water. 2  Electrolytes should never be force fed to a dehydrated horse, and any horses supplemented with electrolytes should be monitored for dehydration (skin pinch test, mucous membrane color and hydration, capillary refill). As a follow-up to our recent post on providing adequate water for horses, the following information should be helpful in understanding the use of supplemental electrolytes for horses. There are a wide range of practices and opinions within this topic, so here are some basic guidelines to keep in mind:
Horse sweat contains the electrolytes chloride, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and a few other trace minerals. The two electrolytes lost in the greatest amounts are sodium and chloride, which is salt, so a proper electrolyte should be salt-based to meet the horse's needs. How To Give Your Horse Electrolytes. Methods to administer electrolytes include adding water and oral dosing with a syringe, providing them in water for the horse to drink, and mixing them in a dry or wet form into the horse's feed.
A good recipe for providing electrolytes to the horse is to add two ounces of electrolytes to a cup (6 ounces) of shredded beet pulp in a quart‐sized container or plastic bag. Then add a cup of water to the electrolyte/beet pulp mixture. Commercial horse feeds, hay and pasture also contain electrolytes, but horses involved in performance, trail and show events, especially when travel is involved, need additional electrolytes to maintain good health and performance.
A good recipe for providing electrolytes to the horse is to add 2 to 4 ounces of electrolytes to one cup (8 ounces) of dry shredded beet pulp into a container or plastic bag. How To Give Your Horse Electrolytes. Methods to administer electrolytes include adding water and oral dosing with a syringe, providing them in water for the horse to drink, and mixing them in a dry or wet form into the horse's feed.
Electrolytes for Horses. Electrolytes are essential for horses during heavy work outs. Especially during warm weather. Even in hot trailers horses need to keep hydrated. When a horse sweats it loses salts such as sodium, chloride and potassium. This depletion of a horse's natural electrolyte balance can cause muscle stiffness, tiredness and colic symptoms that can be potentially life threatening.
Horse sweat contains the electrolytes chloride, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and a few other trace minerals. The two electrolytes lost in the greatest amounts are sodium and chloride, which is salt, so a proper electrolyte should be salt‐based to meet the horse’s needs. Commercial horse feeds, hay and pasture also contain electrolytes, but horses involved in performance, trail and show events, especially when travel is involved, need additional electrolytes to maintain good health and performance.
Electrolytes are ionized salts-that means they have a charge and separate out in water. The electrolytes that are most important to your horse are sodium (Na), potassium (K+), and chloride (Cl-). Calcium (Ca+) and magnesium (Mg+) are also electrolytes that may affect your horse's well-being. Electrolytes become important when your horse sweats. Horse sweat contains more Na+, Cl-, and K+ than human sweat. Horses can sweat gallons just standing around in hot, humid weather. Most horse owners have salt blocks available for their horses to help counter that deficiency. If sodium is well-regulated, chloride generally is too. Under normal conditions, that free choice salt block (plain or mineral) may be adequate to keep your horse's electrolytes at good levels.
When looking for an electrolyte for your horse, sodium chloride should be listed first on the ingredient list, followed by potassium chloride as the second ingredient. Electrolytes can be sugar-based instead of salt-based. How To Give Your Horse Electrolytes. Methods to administer electrolytes include adding water and oral dosing with a syringe, providing them in water for the horse to drink, and mixing them in a dry or wet form into the horse's feed.