Network Support Technicians will find that Washington offers an impressive pay rate, one which exceeds the national average by 30 percent. Network Support Technicians can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like New York (+22 percent), Denver (+16 percent), Miami (+15 percent), and Raleigh (+9 percent). That role pays $101K per year on average. When Network Support Technicians are ready for the next step in their careers, they often become IT Network Administrators or Network System Administrators. Those roles pay an additional $7K and $11K, respectively.
The average beginner in this position makes around $36K, but folks who have been around for five to 10 years see a markedly higher median salary of $43K. Network Support Technicians who work for 10 to 20 years in their occupation tend to earn about $47K. That role pays $101K per year on average. When Network Support Technicians are ready for the next step in their careers, they often become IT Network Administrators or Network System Administrators. Those roles pay an additional $7K and $11K, respectively.
A scrub technician can earn as much as $59,000 a year. In the US as  of May 2011, scrub technicians make on average $42,460 per year.  Income varies depending on location an … d experience. Answered. We use a variety of factors to determine how much a network tech makes in our shop. All of these are pretty obvious, the first one seems to be the most sticky for a lot of people. It's no good to have a tech apply for a job that has his MCSE(apparently) and can't explain what the OSI model is.
At a minimum, a Computer/Network Support Technician usually holds a certificate in Networking. They are usually hired by established businesses especially large corporations. They work in an office environment usually near the physical computer or network installation where he interacts with the other support staff. That role pays $101K per year on average. When Network Support Technicians are ready for the next step in their careers, they often become IT Network Administrators or Network System Administrators. Those roles pay an additional $7K and $11K, respectively.
Network technicians typically work indoors and can work for companies in a wide range of fields. The minimum educational qualifications for network technicians usually include an associate's or bachelor's degree and two years of related work experience. Depending on the job offer, network technicians may need a degree in a specific area, such as computer science, engineering or another field. Some companies may also require their technicians to hold a valid driver's license when their job position entails driving a company vehicle to jobs and work sites.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Installation & Maintenance Technician I in the United States is $40,513 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Installation & Maintenance Technician I in the United States are expected to make less than $40,513. 
The average salary for a Network Technician is $43,389 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. $30,640 - $63,616. Depending on the job offer, network technicians may need a degree in a specific area, such as computer science, engineering or another field. Some companies may also require their technicians to hold a valid driver's license when their job position entails driving a company vehicle to jobs and work sites.
How much money does a network technician make? The PayScale Report shows that computer network technicians start off with an annual salary of $26,963 to $40,268 as of April 2010. We use a variety of factors to determine how much a network tech makes in our shop. All of these are pretty obvious, the first one seems to be the most sticky for a lot of people. It's no good to have a tech apply for a job that has his MCSE(apparently) and can't explain what the OSI model is.
Experience and success as a computer network technician may lead to salary increases, career advancement or both. Payscale.com reported in December 2014 that entry-level network support technicians earned a median salary of $37,369. Mid-career technicians earned a median salary of $42,809. Having job experience can also lead you to a promotion as network administrator. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, most computer systems administrators start off in technical support positions (www.bls.com).
1 posts, read. times. Reputation: 28. how much do we make. well to put it into a simple break down for you, a lot depends on where you live, for example, i work for comcast in the north east, very north east, where i make a mid level paygrade, whereas if i worked in cape cod, they are in the highest pay bracket. 