The body mass index (BMI) is a special measurement used to determine whether your weight is healthy for your height. There are five classifications of BMI: Underweight (below 18.5), healthy (18.5-24.9), overweight (25.0-29.9), obese (30.0-39.9), and morbidly obese (more than 40). BMI is calculated from a person's weight and height, regardless of gender. To calculate your BMI, divide your weight in pounds by your height in inches squared. Multiply that total by 703. Or, divide your weight in kilograms by your height in meters squared.
Body mass index (BMI) represents the relationship of height to weight, yielding a single number; the more you weigh in relation to your height, the higher your BMI. Using BMI as the measure, “obese” is defined as a body mass index of 30 or higher, and “overweight as 25-29.9. BMI is calculated from a person's weight and height, regardless of gender. To calculate your BMI, divide your weight in pounds by your height in inches squared. Multiply that total by 703. Or, divide your weight in kilograms by your height in meters squared.
The body mass index (BMI) or Quetelet index is a value derived from the mass (weight) and height of an individual. The BMI is defined as the body mass divided by the square of the body height, and is universally expressed in units of kg/m 2, resulting from mass in kilograms and height in metres. The modern term body mass index (BMI) for the ratio of human body weight to squared height owes its popularity to a paper published in the July 1972 edition of the Journal of Chronic Diseases by Ancel Keys.
Abbreviated BMI. BMI is a person's weight in kilograms (kg) divided by his or her height in meters squared. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) now defines normal weight, overweight, and obesity according to BMI rather than the traditional height/weight charts. Overweight is a BMI of 27.3 or more for women and 27.8 or more for men. 
For adults older than 20 years: 1  A BMI below 18.5 is considered underweight. 2  A BMI between 18.5 and 24.9 is considered a healthy weight. 3  A BMI between 25 and 29.9 is considered overweight. 4  A BMI of 30 and above is considered obese. 5  It may overestimate body fat in athletes and others who have a muscular build. 1 A BMI between 25 and 29.9 is considered overweight. 2  A BMI of 30 and above is considered obese. 3  It may overestimate body fat in athletes and others who have a muscular build. 4  It may underestimate body fat in older persons and others who have lost muscle mass.
BMI stands for body mass index. While BMI does not measure body fat directly, it corresponds pretty closely to direct measures of body fat. Therefore, BMI can be considered an alternative for direct measures of body fat. BMI is determined by a person's height and weight.
BMI Categories. For adults, BMI numbers are grouped into categories that reflect whether someone is underweight, normal weight, overweight or obese. A BMI of less than 18.5 is considered underweight. A BMI of 18.5 to 24.9 is in the normal range. BMI is a ratio of weight and height and is calculated using a formula. To calculate BMI, take an individual's weight in pounds and divide it by the square of her height in inches.
The body mass index is a number that is calculated from an equation that uses height and weight. The number gives an indicator of how fat or thin a person is. A body mass index of less than 18.5 is underweight, between 18.5 and 24.9 is a healthy BMI. BMI is calculated from a person's weight and height, regardless of gender. To calculate your BMI, divide your weight in pounds by your height in inches squared. Multiply that total by 703. Or, divide your weight in kilograms by your height in meters squared.
Body mass index (BMI) is a tool for indicating weight status in adults. It is a measure of weight for height. For adults over 20 years old, BMI falls into one of these categories: Below 18.5 (underweight), 18.5-24.9 (normal), 25.0-29.9 (Overweight) and 30.0 and above (obese). BMI is calculated from a person's weight and height, regardless of gender. To calculate your BMI, divide your weight in pounds by your height in inches squared. Multiply that total by 703. Or, divide your weight in kilograms by your height in meters squared.
Body Mass Index (BMI) is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters. For children and teens, BMI is age-and sex-specific and is often referred to as BMI-for-age. 