Borage as a herb is also used for other purposes, notably for the preparation of seed oil, compared to seed oils of other herbs like the evening primrose, the seed oil of the borage is very rich in polyunsaturated fats and is superior to many other herb derived oils. Borage was also used popularly as a salad herb and vegetable by many Europeans during the Middle Ages and the succeeding centuries. Culinary use of the borage is made nowadays as well, the refreshing flavor of the salad made from young borage leaves and flowers are attested by many well known chefs and culinary experts.
Borage use is not recommended for pregnant women. Although Borage has been used to increase milk production in lactating mothers, it is recommended to consult a pediatrician or a competent medical practitioner before using this herb. Borage has no reported interaction with other pharmaceutical drugs or herbs. Borage is used to treat skin infections and inflammation such as dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, pimples, herpes, nail fungus, etc. A poultice of crushed Borage leaves is also used to relieve insect bites and stings, reduce swelling and bruising and is also helpful for clearing up boils and rashes.
Borage is also used for a hormone problem called adrenal insufficiency, for  blood purification, to increase urine flow, to prevent inflammation of the lungs, as a sedative, and to promote sweating. Borage is also used to increase breast milk production and to treat bronchitis and colds. Borage is applied to the skin for infantile seborrheic dermatitis and is also used in a dressing to soften the skin. In foods, borage is eaten in salads and soups. In manufacturing, borage is used in skin care products. NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory medications used to decrease pain and swelling. Borage seed oil is also used as an anti-inflammatory medication. Sometimes NSAIDs and borage seed oil are used together for rheumatoid arthritis.
Borage is also used as herbal medicine to dispel melancholy. Borage has been used for the relief of rheumatisms, colds, bronchitis, and to increase breast milk production. Borage plant grows to height of about 100 cm. The stems and the leaves of Borage plant are bristly or hairy. Borage is used to treat skin infections and inflammation such as dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, pimples, herpes, nail fungus, etc. A poultice of crushed Borage leaves is also used to relieve insect bites and stings, reduce swelling and bruising and is also helpful for clearing up boils and rashes.
Borage flowers and leaves are used used in salads, tea preparation and in cooking. Borage is rich in essential fatty acids such as gamma-. linolenic acid (GLA) or omega-6 fatty acid that has been studied to promote joint restoration, healthy skin, and boosts immunity. Borage is used to treat skin infections and inflammation such as dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, pimples, herpes, nail fungus, etc. A poultice of crushed Borage leaves is also used to relieve insect bites and stings, reduce swelling and bruising and is also helpful for clearing up boils and rashes.
Borage (/ˈbɒr.ɪdʒ/ , Borago officinalis), also known as a starflower, is an annual herb in the flowering plant family Boraginaceae. It is native to the Mediterranean region and has naturalized in many other locales. Borage is also traditionally used as a garnish in the Pimms Cup cocktail, but is nowadays often replaced by a long sliver of cucumber peel or by mint. It is also one of the key Botanical flavourings in Gilpin's Westmorland Extra Dry Gin.
TINCTURE A herbal tincture prepared from the leaves of the borage is normally as a general tonic following steroid therapy, it is also used to beat back the symptoms of stress, dosage of this tincture can be 10 ml of the remedy, taken thrice every day, the dose is similar for both uses. Borage was also used popularly as a salad herb and vegetable by many Europeans during the Middle Ages and the succeeding centuries. Culinary use of the borage is made nowadays as well, the refreshing flavor of the salad made from young borage leaves and flowers are attested by many well known chefs and culinary experts.
Borage is a plant. Its flowers and leaves, as well as the oil from its seeds are used as medicine. Borage seed oil is used for skin disorders including eczema, seborrheic dermatitis, and neurodermatitis. NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory medications used to decrease pain and swelling. Borage seed oil is also used as an anti-inflammatory medication. Sometimes NSAIDs and borage seed oil are used together for rheumatoid arthritis.
Overview: Borage is an interesting herb, that gets little recognition. It is truly beautiful, with blue, edible flowers and lovely fuzzy leaves. Grow Borage for its beauty and taste. A multi-purpose herb that belongs in any herb garden. 
Borage, also known as bee plant, is one of the chosen culinary herbs employed by grandmothers to prepare popular green sauce, to garnish salads or to pamper children with candied flowers! This ancient garden herb exudes characteristic cucumber-like aroma to the recipes it added to. Borage is one of very popular low calorie culinary herb especially found its use in the Mediterranean countries. 100 g of fresh leaves carry just 21 calories. The herb contains many notable phyto-nutrients, minerals, and vitamins that are essential for optimum health and wellness.