The McCall culdoplasty or a modification of this procedure is another means of supporting the vaginal cuff during transvaginal hysterectomy. 5, 6, 7 This procedure incorporates the uterosacral and cardinal ligaments to the peritoneal surface. If these supporting structures are not frail or attenuated, the pedicles are sutured to the vaginal membrane (Fig. 1). By securing the pedicles to the lateral angles of the vagina, the vault is supported and the lateral angles of the vaginal cuff are readily sutured.
The modified McCall Culdoplasty procedure is a relatively simple procedure that is performed after removal of the uterus and cervix from the apex of the vagina wherein the angles of the vagina are attached to their respective uterosacral ligament and the cul-de-sac is surgically obliterated for support postoperatively. Purpose. The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility of performing prophylactic McCall culdoplasty at the time of total laparoscopic hysterectomy. The investigators will also be measuring pelvic support (using POP-Q) and sexual function before and at different time points (up to 12 months)
McCalls Culdoplasty. Culdoplasty is a procedure that's used with what's called a vault suspension. That involves fixing the vaginal cuff at the top of the vagina to strong structures like pelvic ligaments or some of the fascia in the pelvis. That's part of a vaginal hysterectomy...they gotta attach the vagina to something! The culdoplasty is then used to remove the cul-de-sac, which is a deep pouch in front of the rectum that separates the uterus from the large intestine.
McCall culdoplasty procedure. method of supporting the vaginal cuff during a vaginal hysterectomy by attaching the uterosacral and cardinal ligaments to the peritoneal surface with suture material that, when tied, draws toward the midline, helping to close off the cul-de-sac. Mc·Call cul·do·plas·ty pro·ce·dure. Method of supporting the vaginal cuff during a vaginal hysterectomy by attaching the uterosacral and cardinal ligaments to the peritoneal surface with suture material such that, when tied, it draws toward the midline, helping to close off the cul-de-sac. 1  Facebook.
Preventing vaginal vault prolapse by supporting the vaginal cuff is an essential part of hysterectomy, whether abdominal or vaginal. The incidence of posthysterectomy vaginal prolapse varies from 0.2% to 43%. , Preventing complications is a sine qua non in surgery. If these supporting structures are not frail or attenuated, the pedicles are sutured to the vaginal membrane (Fig. 1). By securing the pedicles to the lateral angles of the vagina, the vault is supported and the lateral angles of the vaginal cuff are readily sutured.
The culdoplasty is a common component of hystectomy. In addition to suspending the vagina appropriately, the culdoplasty prevents a problem (like enterocele) from occuring in the area where the uterus used to live near the large intestine. That's part of a vaginal hysterectomy...they gotta attach the vagina to something! The culdoplasty is then used to remove the cul-de-sac, which is a deep pouch in front of the rectum that separates the uterus from the large intestine.
McCall culdoplasty procedure. Definitions: 1. method of supporting the vaginal cuff during a vaginal hysterectomy by attaching the uterosacral and cardinal ligaments to the peritoneal surface with suture material that, when tied, draws toward the midline, helping to close off the cul-de-sac.
OBJECTIVE: A new surgical technique of creating a prophylactic, reconstructive posterior culdoplasty and vaginal vault suspension during abdominal hysterectomy is described. The procedure restores the pelvic topography and gross and functional anatomy after removal of the uterus. RESULTS: This study has documented a good outcome and effectiveness of the operation as well as good postsurgical patient satisfaction, with no symptomatology or signs of dysfunctional vagina, vaginal prolapse or enterocele formation.