Osteoarthritis (OA), which is also known as osteoarthrosis or degenerative joint disease (DJD), is a progressive disorder of the joints caused by gradual loss of cartilage and resulting in the development of bony spurs and cysts at the margins of the joints. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Its cause is unknown but may include chemical, mechanical, genetic, metabolic, and endocrine factors. Emotional stress often aggravates the condition. The disease usually begins with pain after exercise or use of the joint.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the entire joint involving the cartilage, joint lining, ligaments, and underlying bone. The breakdown of these tissues eventually leads to pain and joint stiffness. The joints most commonly affected are the knees, hips, and those in the hands and spine. 
Noun. 1. osteoarthritis-chronic breakdown of cartilage in the joints; the most common form of arthritis occurring usually after middle age. degenerative arthritis, degenerative joint disease. arthritis-inflammation of a joint or joints. Translations. [ˈɒstɪəʊɑːˈθraɪtɪs] N → osteoartritis f. 
OA is one of the most common causes of disability due to limitations of joint movement, particularly in people over 50. It is estimated that 2% of the United States population under the age of 45 suffers from osteoarthritis; this figure rises to 30% of persons between 45 and 64, and 63-85% in those over 65. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Its cause is unknown but may include chemical, mechanical, genetic, metabolic, and endocrine factors. Emotional stress often aggravates the condition. The disease usually begins with pain after exercise or use of the joint.
Noun. 1. osteoarthritis-chronic breakdown of cartilage in the joints; the most common form of arthritis occurring usually after middle age. degenerative arthritis, degenerative joint disease. arthritis-inflammation of a joint or joints. Translations. [ˈɒstɪəʊɑːˈθraɪtɪs] N → osteoartritis f. 
Inflammation of the synovial membrane of the joint is common late in the disease. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Its cause is unknown but may include chemical, mechanical, genetic, metabolic, and endocrine factors. Emotional stress often aggravates the condition. The disease usually begins with pain after exercise or use of the joint.
Full Definition of OSTEOARTHRITIS. : arthritis marked by degeneration of the cartilage and bone of joints. — os·te·o·ar·thrit·ic \-ˈthri-tik\ adjective. See osteoarthritis defined for English-language learners. See osteoarthritis defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A. Arthritis is a general term that means inflammation of the joints. Osteoarthritis, commonly known as wear and tear arthritis, is the most common type of arthritis. It is associated with a breakdown of cartilage in joints and can occur in almost any joint in the body. It commonly occurs in the weight-bearing joints of the hips, knees, and spine
Osteoarthritis is caused by disintegration of the cartilage that covers the ends of the bones. As the cartilage wears away, the roughened surface of the bone is exposed, and pain and stiffness result. In severe cases the center of the bone wears away and a bony ridge is left around the edges. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Its cause is unknown but may include chemical, mechanical, genetic, metabolic, and endocrine factors. Emotional stress often aggravates the condition. The disease usually begins with pain after exercise or use of the joint.