Miscellaneous Crew | Actress | Writer. American dancer and choreographer Martha Graham was a revolutionary artist of modern dance in the early 20th century. Born in Allegheny, a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in May 1894, her family moved to California when she was 10. She was inspired at that early age to become a dancer when she saw Ruth St. Denis perform her exotic Epytia ...
Early life. Martha Graham was born in a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on May 11, 1894, one of George and Jane Beers Graham's three daughters. Her father was a doctor who treated people with nervous disorders. Born: May 11, 1894 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Died: April 1, 1991 New York, New York. American dancer, choreographer, and teacher. Martha Graham, American dancer, choreographer (one who creates and arranges dance performances), and teacher, is considered one of the major figures of modern dance.
American dancer and choreographer Martha Graham was a revolutionary artist of modern dance in the early 20th century. Born in Allegheny, a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in May 1894, her family moved to California when she was 10. She was inspired at that early age to become a dancer when she saw Ruth St. Denis perform her exotic Epytia modern dance in 1914.
Martha Graham was born in a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on May 11, 1894, one of George and Jane Beers Graham's three daughters. Her father was a doctor who treated people with nervous disorders. Martha Graham (1894-1991), American dancer, choreographer, and teacher, was the world's leading exponent of modern dance. Martha Graham was born in a suburb of Pittsburgh, PA, in May 1894.
Martha Graham Biography. Born: May 11, 1894 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Died: April 1, 1991 New York, New York. American dancer, choreographer, and teacher. Martha Graham, American dancer, choreographer (one who creates and arranges dance performances), and teacher, is considered one of the major figures of modern dance.
Synopsis. Martha Graham was born in Allegheny (now Pittsburgh), Pennsylvania, on May 11, 1894. As a child, she was influenced by her father, a doctor who used physical movement to remedy nervous disorders. Throughout her teens, Graham studied dance in Los Angeles at Denishawn. Early Years and Inspiration. Born in a suburb of Allegheny (now Pittsburgh), Pennsylvania, on May 11, 1894, Martha Graham was influenced early on by her father, George Graham, a doctor who specialized in nervous disorders. Dr. Graham believed that the body could express its inner senses, an idea that intrigued his young daughter