Surfactant is a product which is secreted by the lungs. Its purpose is to reduce the lungs surface tension. Without surfactant the moist surfaces of the lungs would have such … a high surface tension that the smaller alveoli would collapse. 3 people found this useful. Without surfactant, the wet surfaces of the alveoli in your lungs would stick together and your lungs would not be able to expand-so, you would not be able to breath. The alveoli are the tiny sacs in your lungs where oxygen is captured from inhaled air and absorbed into your bloodstream.
Surfactant. Surfactant is a complex substance containing phospholipids and a number of apoproteins. This essential fluid is produced by the Type II alveolar cells, and lines the alveoli and smallest bronchioles. Surfactant reduces surface tension throughout the lung, thereby contributing to its general compliance.
Purpose. Surfactant reduces the surface tension of fluid in the lungs and helps make the small air sacs in the lungs (alveoli) more stable. This keeps them from collapsing when an individual exhales. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.
Author information: (1)Dr. von Hauner Childrens' Hospital, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich, Germany. Pulmonary surfactant is a complex and highly surface active material composed of lipids and proteins which is found in the fluid lining the alveolar surface of the lungs. 
Surfactant reduces surface tension, so that the alveoli in the lungs are able to expand. It is essentially a biological detergent. Surfactant reduces surface tension. Without surfactant, the wet surfaces of the alveoli in your lungs would stick together and your lungs would not be able to expand-so, you would not be able to breath. The alveoli are the tiny sacs in your lungs where oxygen is captured from inhaled air and absorbed into your bloodstream.
2 also called pulmonary surfactant. one of certain lipoproteins that reduce the surface tension of pulmonary fluids, allowing the exchange of gases in the alveoli of the lungs and contributing to the elasticity of pulmonary tissue. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.
Without normal pulmonary surfactant present, the attractive forces of the water will cause the alveoli to collapse. Pulmonary surfactant is a complex substance in the lungs which reduces the surface tension of water and therefore, prevents the collapse of the alveoli. Surfactant also plays a role in defending the lungs from bacteria and viruses. 
Surfactant reduces the surface tension of fluid in the lungs and helps make the small air sacs in the lungs (alveoli) more stable. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.
Surfactant prevents this collapse by reducing the surface tension of the fluids that line the lungs and helping to equalize the pressures between large and small air spaces. Surface tension is a measure of the attraction molecules of a fluid have for each other. For example, if a drop of detergent is added to a drop of water, the detergent reduces the surface tension and the drop of water flattens out. In the lungs, surfactant reduces the surface tension and helps to maximize the surface area available for gas exchange.