House centipedes feed on silverfish, firebrats, carpet beetle larvae, cockroaches, spiders and other small arthropods. If house centipedes are seen frequently, this indicates that some prey arthropod is in abundance, and may signify a greater problem then the presence of the centipedes. 
House centipedes prefer damp, dark areas such as basements. Outside, they live under logs, rocks and damp leaves. While house centipedes eat other pests, such as bedbugs, ants, spiders and cockroaches, their intimidating appearance and painful sting makes them unwelcome guests. House centipedes are an indicator of other bug infestations; if you have centipedes, you also have other pests. 
People also find centipedes under woodpiles, logs, and landscape timbers. Centipedes are predators of insects. They also eat spiders and earthworms. When centipedes move indoors, they hide in closets or in bathrooms. They seek out spiders or flies to eat. 
House centipedes feed on spiders, bed bugs, termites, cockroaches, silverfish, ants, and other household arthropods. They administer venom through modified legs (forcipules) . These are not part of their mandibles, so strictly speaking they sting rather than bite. 
Centipedes are not likely to consume wood. In actuality, arthropods commonly known as wood eating centipedes are millipedes. While millipedes do closely resemble centipedes, millipedes are herbivores and detritivores, subsisting on dead and decaying plant material, including wood or cellulose material. Appearance. Centipedes belong to class of Chilopoda. The name centipede, which means “100 legs,” can be somewhat misleading: centipedes may have anywhere from 15 to 177 pairs of legs. Centipedes are elongated, with flat, segmented bodies that contain a pair of legs per segment.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: House centipedes mainly eat roaches, beetles, termites, silverfish, and ants, but will eat spiders and other centipedes if food is scarce. Centipede's front legs are modified into pinching fangs to inject venom, and will eat just about anything they can overpower with them. House centipedes may even eat baby mice. In a match-up between a large centipede and a large scorpion, the centipede kills and eats the scorpion like popcorn. Not surprising, then, that spiders are no match for large centipedes.
Also because they are all Daddy Longlegs, which, although venomous, are harmless to me. House centipedes are awesome, however. Sure, they eat spiders, but they also eat termites and bedbugs and cockroaches. Moreover, if you have house centipedes and you don't have spiders, you may want to check your house for those more intrusive pests. I generally don't mind bugs, but I agree that house centipedes are gross. It's something about the long hair-like legs-- and they usually move really fast too....shudder. Luckily, whenever one has the misfortune of wandering into my apartment, my cats eat them right away.
They are modified to deliver poison and are called poison claws; they are the centipede’s weapons. House centipedes are nocturnal hunters that roam through our homes at night searching for prey. They eat spiders, flies, silverfish, moths, roaches, termites, bees, and wasps. So many of our enemies are on the centipede’s menu, you would think we would welcome them. 
Prevention methods. It is best to solve any insect problems you may have if you do not want to attract the predator that feeds on them. Among other things, house centipedes eat flies, silverfish, cockroaches, and wood lice. Even though they sometimes kill spiders as well, centipedes are considered useful. 
Centipedes (from Latin prefix centi- , hundred, and pes, pedis, foot) are arthropods belonging to the class Chilopoda of the subphylum Myriapoda. They are elongated metameric creatures with one pair of legs per body segment. Despite the name, centipedes can have a varying number of legs, ranging from 30 to 354. Centipedes always have an odd number of pairs of legs. Therefore, there is no centipede with exactly 100 legs.