Legacy of the Ancient Greeks - (How Ancient Greece influenced modern day culture.). The influence of the Ancient Greeks are still felt by us today. The major impact in our lives today are in the arts, in philosophy, and in science, math, literature and politics. The earliest Greek civilizations thrived nearly 4,000 years ago. The Ancient Greeks lived in Greece and the countries that we now call Bulgaria and Turkey. The Ancient Greece empire spread over Europe as far as France in the East.
Ancient Greece is not just ancient history. The legacy of this classical culture has had a significant influence on culture today, from athletic spectacles such as the Olympics to the storytelling structure of Hollywood films.
Ancient Greek Culture and Civilization. Ancient Greek Culture was the birthplace of Western civilisation about 4000 years ago. Ancient Greece produced many magnificent achievements in areas of government, science, philosophy and the arts that still influence our lives. 1  Democracy. 2  Sciences. 3  Philosophy. 4  Art. 5  Architecture
In ancient times, Greece was the birthplace of Western culture and democracy. Modern democracies owe a debt to Greek beliefs in government by the people, trial by jury, and equality under the law. The culture of Greece has evolved over thousands of years, beginning in Mycenaean Greece, continuing most notably into Classical Greece, through the influence of the Roman Empire and its successor the Byzantine Empire.
The influence of Greek mythology can be found in our science, arts and literature and our language, When Ancient Greece fell to the Roman Empire, Rome adapted its mythologies which still influence us today as they have through history. Greek mythology has influenced our science quite heavily from the very start – including the naming of the planets. The first five planets (not including Earth): Mercury, Mars, Venus and Saturn were all named by the Romans after adaptations of what were originally Greek gods.
Ancient Greek society fell over 2000 years ago but despite this, its mythology still continues to influence our western society. References to Greek mythology can be found all through time and in our western culture. Greek mythology has influenced our science quite heavily from the very start – including the naming of the planets. The first five planets (not including Earth): Mercury, Mars, Venus and Saturn were all named by the Romans after adaptations of what were originally Greek gods.
Difference between Greek and Modern theatres Kimberly Legaspi February 25th, 2013 Word count: 1478 Difference between Greek and Modern Theatres Theatre today as in ancient Greek times is a popular form of entertainment. From the architecture and costumes, to the mask, the art of the theater was a feast for the senses and inspired artists to recreate what was seen on stage on more permanent media... The Art of Greek Theater The theater and all it encompassed played an integral role in the lives of the ancient ...
Each state had its own laws, government and money but they shared the same language and religion. The two most important city states were Athens and Sparta. Legacy of the Ancient Greeks - (How Ancient Greece influenced modern day culture.). The influence of the Ancient Greeks are still felt by us today. The major impact in our lives today are in the arts, in philosophy, and in science, math, literature and politics. 
Of all of the contributions of ancient Greece to modern culture, arguably the greatest is democracy, which is itself a Greek word literally meaning people power.. The democratic tradition in city-states such as Athens embodied the ideals of legal equality, personal freedom and governance by the people. The legacy of this classical culture has had a significant influence on culture today, from athletic spectacles such as the Olympics to the storytelling structure of Hollywood films.