Duration is a measure of a bond price’s sensitivity to a change in interest rates, measured in years. Bonds with longer durations are more sensitive to interest rate changes. If you’re in a bond with a duration of 10 years and rates rise 1%, you’ll see a 10% decline in the bond’s price.
Definition: A non-cancellable indemnity bond, backed by an insurance company, which guarantees that principal and interest will be paid in compliance with the underlying contractual agreement or promissory note.Financial guarantee bonds are used by debt issuers as a way of attracting investors.
Bond. A security representing the debt of the company or government issuing it. When a company or government issues a bond, it borrows money from the bondholders; it then uses the money to invest in its operations.
DEFINITION of 'Financial Guarantee'. An non-cancellable indemnity bond that is backed by an insurer in order to guarantee investors that principal and interest payments will be made. Many insurance companies specialize in financial guarantees and similar products that are used by debt issuers as a way of attracting investors.
In finance, a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the bond issuer to the holders. It is a debt security, under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and, depending on the terms of the bond, is obliged to pay them interest (the coupon) and/or to repay the principal at a later date, termed the maturity date.
1 Face value is the money amount the bond will be worth at its maturity, and is also the reference amount the bond issuer uses when calculating interest payments. 2  Coupon rate is the rate of interest the bond issuer will pay on the face value of the bond, expressed as a percentage.
For example if a bond is issued when prevailing interest rates are 5% at $1,000 par value with a 5% annual coupon, it will generate $50 of cash flows per year to the bondholder. The bondholder would be indifferent to purchasing the bond or saving the same money at the prevailing interest rate.