For many years, veterinarians were taught that cats and dogs had to be a year old to be spayed or neutered. Later, they were taught that six months was appropriate. Today we know that kittens and pups can be spayed or neutered at the age of two months (or two pounds). The American Veterinary Medical Association has endorsed this practice called Early Age Neutering; the animals recover more quickly from surgery when they are young.
Today some vets will spay/neuter at eight weeks of age, while other adhere to the old practice of six months of age. The average age at which pets are spayed or neutered is four months. Adolescent cats and dogs as young as five months can get pregnant. Today we know that kittens and pups can be spayed or neutered at the age of two months (or two pounds). The American Veterinary Medical Association has endorsed this practice called Early Age Neutering; the animals recover more quickly from surgery when they are young.
Through neutering, you can help your dog or cat live a happier, healthier, longer life. Spaying eliminates the constant crying and nervous pacing of a female cat in heat. Spaying a female dog also eliminates the messiness associated with the heat cycle. Neutering of male dogs and cats can prevent certain undesirable sexual behaviors, such as urine marking, humping, male aggression and the urge to roam. Spaying / Neutering. Spaying is a general term used to describe the ovariohysterectomy of a female animal. Neutering is a general term used to describe the castration of a male animal. However, neutering is often used in reference to both genders.
When it’s time to spay your dog. She can be spayed any time after eight weeks of age, and preferably before her first heat for the best health benefits. The first heat cycle occurs somewhere around six months of age, depending on the breed. 
Owning a dog can be a simple task. However, making decisions on what is good and bad for them or in other words building a compatible environment is a difficult job. Again, the contradicting views of pet professionals and veterinarians on the subject of neutering them can only worsen your situation. When a male dog undergoes neutering, the procedure is recognized as castration. It involves total elimination of testes through little surgical incisions that are applied between the scrotum and penis.
Myth: My dog or cat is too old to be spayed or neutered. Truth: Because early spaying or neutering is optimal, and with advanced techniques and safer anesthetic drugs, your pet can be safely spayed or neutered at 8 weeks of age and a weight of 2 pounds. Myth: My pregnant animal can not be safely spayed. Truth: Many dogs and cats are spayed while pregnant to prevent the birth of puppies or kittens. A veterinarian, however, must consider the pregnant dog or cat, as well as the stage of her pregnancy, before deciding whether she can
When to neuter. A male dog can be neutered any time after eight weeks of age. A few years ago, most veterinarians advised waiting until puberty hit at about six months, and some still make that recommendation. Talk to your veterinarian about what’s best for your dog. Neutering sterilizes a male dog so he’s incapable of parenting puppies. Many, many wonderful health and behavioral effects occur because he’s undergone “the big snip.”. It’s a simple surgery, far more so than a spay.
All the medical evidence suggests a dog should be spayed before her first heat. It’s much easier for her then because it’s a much easier surgery at that time. And the problem with letting your dog have a litter is you’ve just instantly contributed to the pet overpopulation problem. It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side
Truth: During a spay or neuter surgery, dogs and cats are fully anesthetized, so they feel no pain. Afterwards, most animals seem to experience some discomfort, but signs of discomfort disappear within a few days, and with pain management medication, pain may not be experienced at all. Myth: My pregnant animal can not be safely spayed. Truth: Many dogs and cats are spayed while pregnant to prevent the birth of puppies or kittens. A veterinarian, however, must consider the pregnant dog or cat, as well as the stage of her pregnancy, before deciding whether she can