Embryonic stem cells are derived from very early embryos called blastocysts; the diameter of a human blastocyst is roughly four times that of a human hair. A human blastocyst next to a human hair. A mouse blastocyst aged 3.5 days; the inner cell mass is coloured green and the trophectoderm is coloured red. 1 An outer layer of cells, or trophectoderm, will form the placenta that supports the embryo as it grows inside the uterus. 2  An inner clump of cells, called the inner cell mass, is a ball of 10–20 cells. 3  These cells are undifferentiated, or unspecialized.
Histology Of Nervous Tissue Neurons Most neurons, or nerve cells, consist of a cell body (soma), many dendrites, and usually a single axon The dendrites conduct impulses from receptors or other neurons to the cell body. 
(2) numerous short processes of the soma, called the dendrites; and, (3) the single long nerve fiber, the axon. These are described in Figure 2.1. The body of a nerve cell (see also (Schad and Ford, 1973)) is similar to that of all other cells. The cell body generally includes the nucleus, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes, and other organelles. All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell.
Types of Neurons (Nerve Cells). The human body is made up of trillions of cells. Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential. (Remember that 1 micron is equal to one thousandth of a millimeter!). Neurons are similar to other cells in the body because: 1  Neurons are surrounded by a cell membrane. 2  Neurons have a nucleus that contains genes. 3  Neurons contain cytoplasm, mitochondria and other organelles.
It is known as a blastocyst and has two parts: 1  An outer layer of cells, or trophectoderm, will form the placenta that supports the embryo as it grows inside the uterus. 2  An inner clump of cells, called the inner cell mass, is a ball of 10–20 cells. 3  These cells are undifferentiated, or unspecialized. 1 An outer layer of cells, or trophectoderm, will form the placenta that supports the embryo as it grows inside the uterus. 2  An inner clump of cells, called the inner cell mass, is a ball of 10–20 cells. 3  These cells are undifferentiated, or unspecialized.
Millions of messengers. Your nervous system contains millions of nerve cells, called neurons. Neurons are highly specialised to transmit messages from one part of your body to another. All neurons have a cell body and one or more fibres. These fibres vary in length from microscopic to over 1 metre. There are two different kinds of nerve fibres: fibres that carry information towards the cell body, called dendrites, and fibres that carry information away from it, called axons.
The central nervous system is composed of millions of nerve and glial cells, together with blood vessels and a little connective tissue. The nerve cells, or neurons, are characterized by many processes and are specialized for reception and transmission of signals. Peripheral nervous system. A nerve is a collection of nerve fibers that is visible to the naked eye. The constituent fibers are bound together by connective tissue. Each fiber is microscopic in size and is surrounded by a sheath formed by a neurilemmal cell (comparable to the glial cells of the central nervous system).
1 An inner clump of cells, called the inner cell mass, is a ball of 10–20 cells. 2  These cells are undifferentiated, or unspecialized. 3  They will multiply and differentiate extensively to make the many types of cells needed to form the entire animal. 1 An outer layer of cells, or trophectoderm, will form the placenta that supports the embryo as it grows inside the uterus. 2  An inner clump of cells, called the inner cell mass, is a ball of 10–20 cells. 3  These cells are undifferentiated, or unspecialized.
In other cells, such as gland cells and ciliated cells, it is believed that the membrane voltage is important to the execution of cell function. The origin of the membrane voltage is the same in nerve cells as in muscle cells. In both cell types, the membrane generates an impulse as a consequence of excitation. This impulse propagates in both cell types in the same manner. What follows is a short introduction to the anatomy and physiology of nerve cells. All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell.