Background. By definition, an exploratory laparotomy is a laparotomy performed with the objective of obtaining information that is not available via clinical diagnostic methods. They usually have a perforated viscus, most commonly the duodenum, stomach, small intestine, cecum, or sigmoid colon. Exploratory laparotomy is done first to determine the exact cause of pneumoperitoneum, followed by the therapeutic procedure.
During a laparotomy, and an incision is made into the patient's abdomen (A). Skin and connective tissue called fascia is divided (B). The lining of the abdominal cavity, the peritoneum, is cut, and any exploratory procedures are undertaken (C). To close the incision, the peritoneum, fascia, and skin are stitched (E). During exploratory laparotomy for cancer, a pelvic washing may be performed; sterile fluid is instilled into the abdominal cavity and washed around the abdominal organs, then withdrawn and analyzed for the presence of abnormal cells. This may indicate that a cancer has begun to spread (metastasize).
Purpose. Exploratory laparotomy is a method of abdominal exploration, a diagnostic tool that allows physicians to examine the abdominal organs. The procedure may be recommended for a patient who has abdominal pain of unknown origin or who has sustained an injury to the abdomen. During exploratory laparotomy for cancer, a pelvic washing may be performed; sterile fluid is instilled into the abdominal cavity and washed around the abdominal organs, then withdrawn and analyzed for the presence of abnormal cells. This may indicate that a cancer has begun to spread (metastasize).
Depending on incision placement, laparotomy may give access to any abdominal organ or space, and is the first step in any major diagnostic or therapeutic surgical procedure of these organs, which include: 1  the digestive tract (the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon). 2  the liver, pancreas, gallbladder, and spleen. The most common incision for laparotomy is the midline incision, a vertical incision which follows the linea alba. 1  The upper midline incision usually extends from the xiphoid process to the umbilicus. 2  A typical lower midline incision is limited by the umbilicus superiorly and by the pubic symphysis inferiorly.
In diagnostic laparotomy (most often referred to as an exploratory laparotomy and abbreviated ex-lap), the nature of the disease is unknown, and laparotomy is deemed the best way to identify the cause. The most common incision for laparotomy is the midline incision, a vertical incision which follows the linea alba. 1  The upper midline incision usually extends from the xiphoid process to the umbilicus. 2  A typical lower midline incision is limited by the umbilicus superiorly and by the pubic symphysis inferiorly.
Background. Exploratory laparoscopy, also termed diagnostic laparoscopy, is a minimally invasive method for the diagnosis of intra-abdominal diseases by direct inspection of intra-abdominal organs. Exploratory laparoscopy also allows tissue biopsy, culture acquisition, and a variety of therapeutic interventions. 
Laparotomy may be performed to determine the cause of a patient's symptoms or to establish the extent of a disease. For example, endometriosis is a disorder in which cells from the inner lining of the uterus grow elsewhere in the body, most commonly on the pelvic and abdominal organs. During exploratory laparotomy for cancer, a pelvic washing may be performed; sterile fluid is instilled into the abdominal cavity and washed around the abdominal organs, then withdrawn and analyzed for the presence of abnormal cells. This may indicate that a cancer has begun to spread (metastasize).
An exploratory laparotomy (ex-lap) is the standard of care in various blunt and penetrating trauma situations in which there may be multiple life-threatening injuries, and in many diagnostic situations in which the operation is undertaken in search of a unifying cause for multiple signs and symptoms of disease. The trauma ex-lap is the most comprehensive ex-lap, usually undertaken after evidence of internal bleeding (a positive FAST, DPL, or other overwhelming evidence for internal hemorrhage). A midline incision is carried down to the linea alba and the fascia is incised.
A laparotomy is a surgical procedure involving a large incision through the abdominal wall to gain access into the abdominal cavity. The most common incision for laparotomy is the midline incision, a vertical incision which follows the linea alba. 1  The upper midline incision usually extends from the xiphoid process to the umbilicus. 2  A typical lower midline incision is limited by the umbilicus superiorly and by the pubic symphysis inferiorly.
Laparotomy vs Laparoscopy. Laparoscopy and laparotomy are two approaches to abdominal surgery. Laparotomy is the older of the two and laparoscopy is a very recent development. Both conditions have their advantages and disadvantages. It is the decision of the surgeon to choose between the two approaches. 