Dopaquel is an alternative to Seroquel, both being a Quetiapine drug. It is used in the treatment of psychosis and bipolar disorder, but also to treat severe depression in con … junction with anti-depressants. 
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Quetiapine is an oral atypical antipsychotic drug used for treating schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Although the mechanism of action of quetiapine is unknown, like other atypical anti-psychotics, it inhibits communication among nerves of the brain. 
Dopaquel® is an international brand name for Quetiapine, which is in a class of medications called atypical antipsychotics. It is used in the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Quetiapine is used to treat the symptoms of psychotic conditions such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (manic depression). Quetiapine may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Dopaquel is an alternative to Seroquel, both being a Quetiapine drug. It is used in the treatment of psychosis and bipolar disorder, but also to treat severe depression in conjunction with anti-depressants. It has a sedative effect in most people and is also used as a sleep-aid (in preference to benzodiazipine) in people with mental health problems who suffer from insomnia as it is not habit forming, like diazipam (branded as Valium, amongst others).
Quetiapine is an antipsychotic medication. It works by changing the actions of chemicals in the brain. Quetiapine is used to treat the symptoms of psychotic conditions such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (manic depression). Quetiapine may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide.
Quetiapine (/kwɨˈtaɪ.əpiːn/ kwi-TY-ə-peen) (developed and marketed as Seroquel by AstraZeneca) is an atypical antipsychotic approved for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and along with an antidepressant to treat major depressive disorder. In those with bipolar disorder, quetiapine is used to treat depressive episodes, acute manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (as either monotherapy or adjunct therapy to lithium, valproate or lamotrigine), and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder (as adjunct therapy to lithium or divalproex).
Uses. This medication is used to treat certain mental/mood conditions (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, sudden episodes of mania or depression associated with bipolar disorder). Quetiapine is known as an anti-psychotic drug (atypical type). There may be a slightly increased risk of serious, possibly fatal side effects (such as stroke, heart failure, fast/ irregular heartbeat, pneumonia) when this medication is used by older adults with dementia. This medication is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related behavior problems
Seroquel is the brand name of the generic drug q uetiapine, a prescription drug used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (formerly called manic-depression). Seroquel changes the levels of neurotransmitters (naturally occurring brain substances) including serotonin and dopamine. Experts don't know whether Seroquel is a safe and effective treatment for schizophrenia in children younger than 13. The safety of the drug for treating bipolar mania in children younger than 10 and bipolar depression in children younger than 18 is also unknown.
Quetiapine is used to treat certain mental/ mood disorders (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, sudden episodes of mania or depression associated with bipolar disorder). Drugs used to treat depression can help prevent suicidal thoughts/attempts and provide other important benefits. There may be a slightly increased risk of serious, possibly fatal side effects (such as stroke, heart failure, fast/ irregular heartbeat, pneumonia) when this medication is used by older adults with dementia. This medication is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related behavior problem