The term internal combustion engine usually refers to an engine in which combustion is intermittent, such as the more familiar four-stroke and two-stroke piston engines, along with variants, such as the six-stroke piston engine and the Wankel rotary engine. The very first internal combustion engines did not compress the mixture. The first part of the piston downstroke drew in a fuel-air mixture, then the inlet valve closed and, in the remainder of the down-stroke, the fuel-air mixture fired.
His efforts were not suc-cessful until 1898, when the first diesel engines were produced. A diesel engine was first usedin a farm tractor in 193l.Internal combustion engines convert the stored energy in fuel to heat, which is thenconverted to mechanical power. The most common internal combustion engines are the pis-ton-type gasoline engine and the diesel engine. A gasoline engine requires a spark to ignite thefuel-air mixture and is different from a diesel engine that relies on compression to generate theheat required to ignite the fuel-air mixture.
internal combustion engine. noun. Tweet. : a type of engine that is used for most vehicles: an engine in which the fuel is burned within engine cylinders. Full Definition of INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE. : a heat engine in which the combustion that generates the heat takes place inside the engine proper instead of in a furnace. See internal combustion engine defined for English-language learners.
Basic principles. The most common internal-combustion engines are the piston-type gasoline engines used in most automobiles. In an engine, the cylinder is housed inside an engine block strong enough to contain the explosions of fuel. Inside the cylinder is a piston that fits the cylinder precisely. The invention and development of the internal-combustion engine in the nineteenth century has had a profound impact on human life. The internal-combustion engine offers a relatively small, lightweight source for the amount of power it produces.
In an internal combustion engine (ICE), the ignition and combustion of the fuel occurs within the engine itself. The engine then partially converts the energy from the combustion to work. The engine consists of a fixed cylinder and a moving piston. 
In an internal combustion engine the expansion of the high-temperature and high-pressure gases produced by combustion apply direct force to some component of the engine. The very first internal combustion engines did not compress the mixture. The first part of the piston downstroke drew in a fuel-air mixture, then the inlet valve closed and, in the remainder of the down-stroke, the fuel-air mixture fired.
The internal combustion engine is a heat engine in which combustion occurs in a confined space called a combustion chamber. Combustion of a fuel creates high temperature / pressure gases, which are permitted to expand. Internal combustion engines can be powered by any fuel that can be combined with an  oxidizer  in the chamber. By way of contrast, an external combustion engine such as a steam engine does work when the combustion process heats a separate working fluid, such as water or steam, which then in turn does work.
The Importance of the Internal Combustion. INTRODUCTION. The internal combustion engine is a rich source. of examples of almost every conceivable type of. heat transfer. There are a wide range of. temperatures and heat fluxes in the various. components of the internal combustion engine. One of the most important inventions of the. mid-to late 1800s, the internal-combustion. engine generated mechanical energy by burning. fuel in a combustion chamber.
Lawnmowers, chainsaws, and electric generators also may use internal-combustion engines. An important device based on the internal-combustion engine is the automobile. In all internal-combustion engines, however, the basic principles remain the same. Fuel is ignited in a cylinder, or chamber. Inside the sealed, hollow cylinder is a piston (a solid cylinder) that is free to move up and down and is attached at the bottom to a crankshaft. The invention and development of the internal-combustion engine in the nineteenth century has had a profound impact on human life. The internal-combustion engine offers a relatively small, lightweight source for the amount of power it produces.
The steam engine was an external combustion engine as the fuel was burnt outside the engine. The first internal combustion engine where fuel is burnt inside the cylinder to force a piston to move was invented in 1856 by the Italians Barsanti and Matteucci. 