Chickenpox (varicella) is a contagious illness that causes an itchy rash and red spots or blisters (pox) all over the body. Chickenpox can cause problems for pregnant women, newborns, teens and adults, and people who have immune system problems that make it hard for the body to fight infection. A person who has chickenpox can spread the virus even before he or she has any symptoms. Chickenpox is most easily spread from 2 to 3 days before the rash appears until all the blisters have crusted over. You are at risk for chickenpox if you have never had the illness and haven't had the chickenpox vaccine.
Chickenpox is caused by the herpes varicella-zoster virus. It is spread by droplets from a sneeze or cough, or by contact with the clothing, bed linens or oozing blisters of an infected person. Chickenpox (varicella), a viral illness characterised by a very itchy red rash, is one of the most common infectious diseases of childhood. It is usually mild in children but there is a risk of serious complications, such as bacterial pneumonia
Chickenpox, also known as varicella, is a highly contagious disease caused by the initial infection with varicella zoster virus (VZV). The disease results in a characteristic skin rash that forms small, itchy blisters, which eventually scab over. The varicella vaccine has resulted in a decrease in the number of cases and complications from the disease. It protects about 70 to 90 percent of people from disease with a greater benefit for severe disease. Routine immunization of children is recommended in many countries.
Prevention. The best way to prevent chickenpox is to get the chickenpox vaccine. Children, adolescents, and adults should have two doses of chickenpox vaccine. Chickenpox vaccine is very safe and effective at preventing the disease. Most people who get the vaccine will not get chickenpox. If a vaccinated person does get chickenpox, it is usually mild—with fewer blisters and mild or no fever. The chickenpox vaccine prevents almost all cases of severe disease. For more information about chickenpox vaccine, see Vaccination.
The chickenpox vaccine is a shot that can protect nearly anyone who receives the vaccine from catching chickenpox. It's also called the varicella vaccine, because chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus. The vaccine is made from a live but weakened, or attenuated, virus. Although the virus in the chickenpox vaccine is generally incapable of causing a disease, it still stimulates a response from the body's immune system. That response is what gives someone who's had a shot for chickenpox immunity or protection from the illness.
Knowledge center. Chickenpox (Chicken Pox) , also known as Varicella, is a very contagious infection caused by the varicella zoster virus. In several parts of the world it is just known as varicella. Patients develop a blister-like rash, which first appears on the face and trunk, and then spreads throughout the body. A person who never had chickenpox or was never vaccinated can catch chickenpox from people with shingles, an infection also caused by the varicella zoster virus. However, you cannot get shingles from somebody with chickenpox.
Chickenpox facts. 1  Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus which also causes shingles. 2  Chickenpox is highly contagious and spreads by contact with someone with chickenpox. 3  Fever, malaise, and a rash (red spots, blisters, and crusted lesions) are all symptoms and signs of chickenpox. 1 Fever, malaise, and a rash (red spots, blisters, and crusted lesions) are all symptoms and signs of chickenpox. 2  Treatment for chickenpox is basically supportive. 3  Although usually self-limited, chickenpox can also cause more serious complications, including pneumonia, encephalitis, and secondary skin infections.
Chickenpox is a highly contagious illness caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV), a type of herpes virus. It is often a mild illness, characterized by an itchy rash on the face, scalp and trunk with pink spots and tiny fluid-filled blisters that dry and become scabs four to five days later. 