Germination Time Frame. Fescue seeds takes approximately 14 to 21 days to germinate. Soil temperature, outdoor temperature, oxygen soil levels and water all affect how quickly the seeds germinate. Cover the seeds lightly with soil when spread and lightly compact the soil to help ensure germination occurs. Fescue grass seeds germinate best when the soil temperature is 50 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit. The daytime air temperature should be between 60 to 7
Cool season grass such as Fescue, will germinate best when the soil temperatures are between 50 and 65 degrees F. These soil temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60 and 75 degrees. The fescue grasses, when planted properly, germinate within 10 to 14 days. Fall is the best time to plant fescue and other cool season grass. Planting in the Fall presents the least risk of planting failure for cool season grass. Seeding rates for tall fescue lawns are between 5-10 pounds seeded at 1000 square feet and between 220-435 pounds seeded per acre. Pasture seeding rates for tall fescue grass are generally around 15-30 pounds per acre.
A soil temperature range of 50 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit, with air temperature of 60 to 75 degrees, is ideal for germination of fescue Fescue grass will take as little as seven days to germinate, but it can take as many as 21 days for maximum germination. Keep the seedbed moist for best results. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Grass seed germination depends on the soil temperature and the grass variety. Most seeds need a soil temp of about 50-55 degrees for a period of 5-7 days to germinate. Some seeds like bluegrass (21 Days) take longer than others like perennial rye (5-7 Days) to germinate at ideal temps. Bug Doc. 
Rapid germination relies on proper soil temperatures in the fall or spring. Fescue seeds prefer a soil temperature range between 50 and 65 degrees Fahrenheit. If you do not have a soil thermometer to verify this range, wait until the air temperature is about 60 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Tall fescue grass (Festuca arundinacea) is a cool-season grass that grows well in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 8.
Water stimulates fescue seeds to break their seed coat and produce a seedling. In general, mist the newly seeded area to keep it moist, but not soggy. Heavy water droplets from a sprinkler or hose often wash seeds away -- a light watering once a day is an effective strategy to germinate fescue within two weeks. Tall fescue grass (Festuca arundinacea) is a cool-season grass that grows well in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 8.
Tall fescue grows at different rates depending on the temperature. If you seed in the spring when the soil is still cold, the grass might take longer to germinate than in the fall -- it germinates best in soil that's between 50 and 65 degrees Fahrenheit. It grows fastest when air temperatures are 60 to 75 degrees. When planted in the fall, tall fescue typically germinates in four to 14 days. Many factors affect the speed of germination, including soil pH, temperature and the watering schedule. Tall fescue grows best in soil with a pH of 5.8 to 6.5, but it can tolerate soil pH levels of 4.7 to 8.5
You can expect the Ryegrass to germinate within 3-10 days, the fescue to germinate within 7-14 days and the Kentucky Bluegrass to germinate within 10-30 days. Scotts® Classic® Sun And Shade Mix® (South), as an example, is a mixture of tall & fine fescues. 
Germination. When planted in the fall, tall fescue typically germinates in four to 14 days. Many factors affect the speed of germination, including soil pH, temperature and the watering schedule. Tall fescue grows best in soil with a pH of 5.8 to 6.5, but it can tolerate soil pH levels of 4.7 to 8.5