Sky has been offering non-satellite based ways to get its shows of late-through Sky Go and Now TV-but this new deal shouldn't be seen as a signifier that they are about to ditch the dish. As with most communal systems the IRS (integrated reception system) network will still be used. BSkyB has agreed a deal that will allow Sky TV services to be delivered to new-built homes in the UK through fibre-optic cable.
Sky provides television and broadband internet services and fixed line telephone services to consumers and businesses in the United Kingdom. It is the UK's largest pay-TV broadcaster with 11 million customers as of 2015. It was the UK's most popular digital TV service until it was overtaken by Freeview in April 2007. The United Kingdom operations also changed the company name from British Sky Broadcasting Limited to Sky UK Limited, still trading as Sky. Sky UK Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sky plc.
Not only is Now TV the best way to get Sky TV channels without a satellite dish, it’s also an attractive option for Sky Sports and Sky Movies. Join BT TV and you can watch Sky Movies and Sky Sports without a satellite dish. But just joining BT TV isn’t enough; you also need BT Infinity, a fibre broadband service.
Getting the big Sky TV entertainment channels without a satellite dish. Sky’s most popular entertainment channels are available without a satellite dish. But a couple of catches apply: you need a broadband connection, and you can’t get them from Sky itself. Join BT TV and you can watch Sky Movies and Sky Sports without a satellite dish. But just joining BT TV isn’t enough; you also need BT Infinity, a fibre broadband service.
Join Now TV and you can watch 14 of Sky’s top entertainment channels. You need to sign up for an Entertainment Pass to get these channels. Passes are available on one-month, three-month, or six-month subscriptions and prices start at £6.99 per month. Join BT TV and you can watch Sky Movies and Sky Sports without a satellite dish. But just joining BT TV isn’t enough; you also need BT Infinity, a fibre broadband service.
Sky has signed a deal with a cable company to dish up Sky television -- without a dish. Game of Thrones appears on Sky Atlantic in the UK HBO. Sky will be piped into newly-built homes via GTC's new-build fibre optic networks. 
Sign up to Sky Fibre as an existing Sky TV customer for this offer here. And here are the prices for Sky Broadband with and without the basic Sky TV service; the Original Bundle usually costs £20 a month-and remember to add on the cost of Sky line rental. If you have Sky TV with a phone line, unplug your Sky adapter/line from the BT socket and put your phone line which is connected to your router in and watch your Internet speed shoot up. I have BT internet but changed my Sky box to Sky+ and my internet speed went down to 1mb-2mb.
Sky have six broadband options: Lite, Unlimited, Fibre, Fibre Unlimited, Fibre Unlimited Pro, and Connect. Each relies on taking Sky line rental, which from December 1st 2015 will cost £17.40 a month. Connect is the broadband option for those people who don't live within Sky's broadband network area. If you have Sky TV with a phone line, unplug your Sky adapter/line from the BT socket and put your phone line which is connected to your router in and watch your Internet speed shoot up. I have BT internet but changed my Sky box to Sky+ and my internet speed went down to 1mb-2mb.
One free/discounted box per household. Sky+HD box up to £199 if you are not eligible for discounted price (Sky TV subscription required). A Sky+HD box has all the features of Sky+ and can store an average of 60 hours of HD or 185 hours of standard definition programmes. Choice of reward: Choose from a free LG 32” TV, Samsung GALAXY Tab 4, £100 Amazon.co.uk Gift Certificate or a £100 M&S or Tesco voucher for new Sky customers joining Sky TV online before 15 October 2015.
GTC's broadband offering is up to 300Mbps as well, which will definitely entice those looking for a speedy web setup. This does mean that Sky's own talk and broadband services aren't part of this deal. You have to use GTC's broadband and TV package. Speaking about the team up, Brendan Hegarty, Sky's Head of Homes and Independent Retail, said: This relationship with GTC will give owners of new homes across the UK a simple way to get great TV from Sky alongside GTC's superfast broadband and home phone services. BSkyB has agreed a deal that will allow Sky TV services to be delivered to new-built homes in the UK through fibre-optic cable.