Every Inupiaq iñupiaq is responsible to all Other inupiat iñupiat for the survival of our, cultural spirit and the values and traditions through which. It survives through our, extended family, we, retain teach and Live our. inupiat iñupiat way
North Slope and Malimiut are easily mutually intelligible, although there are vocabulary differences (tupiq means 'tent' in North Slope and 'house' in Malimiut; iglu is 'house' in North Slope) and sound differences ('dog' is qimmiq in North Slope and qipmiq in Malimiut).
Inupiaq Iñupiaq Cultural. Values Inupiat. Iñupiat Ilitqusiat every inupiaq iñupiaq is responsible To all other inupiat iñupiat for the survival, of our cultural spirit and the values and traditions. Through which it survives, through our, extended, family we retain Teach and. live our inupiat iñupiat way
Inupiaq. Inupiaq is spoken throughout much of northern Alaska and is closely related to the Canadian Inuit dialects and the Greenlandic dialects, which may collectively be called Inuit or Eastern Eskimo, distinct from Yupik or Western Eskimo.
Every Inupiaq iñupiaq is responsible to all Other inupiat iñupiat for the survival of our, cultural spirit and the values and traditions through which. it survives
Alaskan Inupiaq includes two major dialect groups: North Alaskan Inupiaq and Seward Peninsula Inupiaq. North Alaskan Inupiaq comprises the North Slope dialect spoken along the Arctic Coast from Barter Island to Kivalina, as well as the Malimiut dialect, which is found primarily around Kotzebue Sound and the Kobuk River.
Inupiat Iñupiat. Ilitqusiat Every inupiaq iñupiaq is responsible to All other inupiat iñupiat for the survival of, our cultural spirit and the values and traditions through. Which it survives through, our extended, family, we retain teach And live. our inupiat iñupiat way
All materials in the Inupiaq collection are either written in or about the Inupiaq language. The earliest documents date from the late 1700s and early 1800s. Materials prior to the 1970s largely relate to ethnographic accounts, wordlists, and, especially in the 1900s, religious texts.
Definition of INUPIAT. 1. plural Inupiat or Inupiats also Inupiaq or Inupiaqs: a member of the Eskimo people of northern Alaska. 2.
Inupiat Iñupiat. Ilitqusiat Every inupiaq iñupiaq is responsible to All other inupiat iñupiat for the survival of, our cultural spirit and the values and traditions through. which it survives