Erik – to be an idiot means that you know better and do it anyway – ignorant of the fact – is a better description of your knowledge in that instance. I did not know what [sic] stood for at all – so this actually has help expand my knowledge base. (remembering Ockham’s Razor). Sic is a Latin word meaning “thus”, “so”, “as such”, or “in such a manner”. It is used when writing quoted material to indicate that an incorrect or unusual spelling, phrase, punctuation or meaning in the quote has been reproduced verbatim from the original and is not a transcription error.
Ag-109 is used for the production of Ag-110m which is used as a gamma reference source. Ag-109 can also be used for the production of In-110 (a replacement for the more commonly used In-111) and for the production of Cd-109, an 88 keV gamma reference source. Silver has no biological role. Silver is found sometimes as the free metal as well as in ores such as argentite (silver sulphide, Ag 2 S). There are deposits in Australia, Canada, Chile, Germany, Mexico, Norway, Sardinia, and the USA.
Sic in square brackets is an editing term used with quotations or excerpts. It means “that’s really how it appears in the original.”. It is used to point out a grammatical error, misspelling, misstatement of fact, or, as above, the unconventional spelling of a name. (remembering Ockham’s Razor). Sic is a Latin word meaning “thus”, “so”, “as such”, or “in such a manner”. It is used when writing quoted material to indicate that an incorrect or unusual spelling, phrase, punctuation or meaning in the quote has been reproduced verbatim from the original and is not a transcription error.
BGMC is the AG missions program for kids that instills a heart of compassion to reach the lost through praying, giving, and going. 
The two isotopes of Silver, Ag-107 and Ag-109 are used and have been proposed as precursor for the production of a number of radioisotopes. Ag-107 has been proposed for the (cyclotron) production of Pd-103, although the most common route for Pd-103 is via Rh-103 or Pd-104. Silver has no biological role. Silver is found sometimes as the free metal as well as in ores such as argentite (silver sulphide, Ag 2 S). There are deposits in Australia, Canada, Chile, Germany, Mexico, Norway, Sardinia, and the USA.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: AG stands for AktienGesellschaft. That means it is a shareholder company. This step (selling shares) is usually done to get capital into the company, for instance for an enlargement or funding of new projects. A GmbH is a Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter Beschränkter, haftung meaning a company that will only stand for (debts in case of the failure of the) company upto a certain amount of money that has been sat up by the founding fathers at founding the company and is written down in the register of the. state
GmbH companies are incorporated and, as such, are legal entities unto themselves. These companies must have a minimum of two partners and may be, but do not have to be, owned by a public company. German companies that are publicly traded are designated as such by the letters 'AG' after the company name. 'AG' is an abbreviation for the German word Aktiengesellschaft, which literally translates to 'corporation' in English. The laws of a country determine which types of companies are legally recognized within the country's borders. By Investopedia Staff AAA |. A: In Germany, there are two types of companies: publicly traded and privately held. The acronym 'GmbH', which is written after the name of the company, designates a company as private in Germany. The letters stand for Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter Beschränkter haftung, which translated, literally means 'a company with limited'. liability
Silver around us. Silver has no biological role. Silver is found sometimes as the free metal as well as in ores such as argentite (silver sulphide, Ag 2 S). There are deposits in Australia, Canada, Chile, Germany, Mexico, Norway, Sardinia, and the USA.