A vegan diet is one that consists of only plant-derived foods. Vegans don’t use or consume any animals or animal products including flesh (land or sea animals), milk, eggs, or honey. Eating vegan doesn't require breaking the bank or moving to a big city. 
The above answers the question what does a vegan diet consist of. But vegans should be aware that a strict vegetarian diet eliminates sources of vitamin B-12 and the dairy products which are a rich source of much needed calcium for the body. What Does a Vegan Diet Consist Of. Following a vegetarian or vegan diet is one good way of meeting all the nutritional needs of the body and staying healthy. A vegan diet may be chosen for a number of reasons.
A healthy vegetarian diet is high in plenty of nutrient-dense foods, such as fruits, vegetables, healthy fats and whole grains, and often low in saturated fat, cholesterol and sodium. However, nutritional deficiencies might still occur, and supplementation will be necessary. A vegan does not eat meat, poultry, fish, eggs or dairy products.
Veganism is a type of vegetarian diet that excludes meat, eggs, dairy products and all other animal-derived ingredients. Many vegans also do not eat foods that are processed using animal products, such as refined white sugar and some wines. Vegan refers to either a person who follows this way of eating, or to the diet itself.
Lacto Vegetarian: does not eat eggs, but does eat dairy products. Ovo Vegetarian: does not eat any animal or dairy products, but does eat eggs. Pescatarian: omits all animal flesh from diet with the exception of fish. Macrobiotic: consumes only unprocessed vegan foods and avoids refined sugars and oils.
Vegetarians do not eat meat, fish, or poultry. Vegans, in addition to being vegetarian, do not use other animal products and by-products such as eggs, dairy products, honey, leather, fur, silk, wool, cosmetics, and soaps derived from animal products. 
Vegetarian diets fall into three main categories based on the types of food eaten. A vegan does not eat meat, poultry, fish, eggs or dairy products. A lacto-vegetarian diet does not include meat, poultry, fish or eggs. However, lacto-vegetarians will eat dairy products, such as milk, cheese and yogurt. A lacto-ovo vegetarian diet only excludes meat, fish and poultry, while eggs and dairy products are allowed
4 2 1 1 2 1. A vegan diet consists of plant-based foods only. In other words, vegans do not consume any meat or dairy products. A vegan diet is formed on the basis of a food pyramid different from that of a conventional meat-based diet. Ovo Vegetarian: does not eat any animal or dairy products, but does eat eggs. Pescatarian: omits all animal flesh from diet with the exception of fish. Macrobiotic: consumes only unprocessed vegan foods and avoids refined sugars and oils.