Ethnocentrism often entails the belief that one's own race or ethnic group is the most important and/or that some or all aspects of its culture are superior to those of other groups. 20 people found this useful. . IncaBlue. Ethnocentrism is the judgement of another culture based on the standards of one's own ethnicity. It limits people because they might not communicate with others based on their … stereotypes. This prevents people from interacting with each other.
Noun. 1. ethnocentrism-belief in the superiority of one's own ethnic group. partisanship, partiality-an inclination to favor one group or view or opinion over alternatives. Translations
Lesson Summary. Ethnocentrism is the belief that your own cultural or ethnic group is superior to other culture or ethnic groups. When ethnic groups teach their children to hate other groups and either avoid or kill their members, then they've crossed the ethnocentric line. Ethnocentrism is the belief that your own cultural or ethnic group is superior to other cultural or ethnic groups. We tell our children to be the best students and athletes they can be. We adults want to belong to the best clubs and have the best jobs, homes, and cars possible.
Introduction. Ethnocentrism is a term applied to the cultural or ethnic bias—whether conscious or unconscious—in which an individual views the world from the perspective of his or her own group, establishing the in-group as archetypal and rating all other groups with reference to this ideal. 
Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values and standards of one's own culture. Ethnocentric individuals judge other groups relative to their own ethnic group or culture, especially with concern for language, behavior, customs, and religion. These ethnic distinctions and subdivisions serve to define each ethnicity 's unique cultural identity. Ethnocentrism may be overt or subtle, and while it is considered a natural proclivity of human psychology, it has developed a generally negative connotation.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Definition Ethnocentrism can be understood as the disposition to read the rest of the world, those of different cultural traditions, from inside the conceptual scheme of one's own ethnocultural group. Practitioners of ethnocentrism assume that their own ethnic worldview is the only one from which other customs, practices, and habits can be understood and judged. HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES.. Source(s): http://science.jrank.org/pages/9234/Ethn...
William G. Sumner coined the term ethnocentrism upon observing the tendency for people to differentiate between the in-group and others. He defined it as the technical name for the view of things in which one's own group is the center of everything, and all others are scaled and rated with reference to it.. These ethnic distinctions and subdivisions serve to define each ethnicity 's unique cultural identity. Ethnocentrism may be overt or subtle, and while it is considered a natural proclivity of human psychology, it has developed a generally negative connotation.
Ethnocentrism. Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values and standards of one's own culture. The ethnocentric individual will judge other groups relative to his or her own particular ethnic group or culture, especially with concern to language, behavior, customs, and religion. 
Print Email Save. Ethnocentrism is the view that one’s ethnicity is better than the others. The other cultures are evaluated on the basis of one’s own beliefs relating to customs, behavior, language and religion. The concern with the superiority of one’s race and culture is overriding. 
Ethnocentrism is a commonly used word in circles where ethnicity, inter-ethnic relations, and similar social issues are of concern. The usual definition of the term is thinking one's own group's ways are superior to others or judging other groups as inferior to one's own. 