Nordic. adj. 1. (Peoples) of, relating to, or belonging to a subdivision of the Caucasoid race typified by the tall blond blue-eyed long-headed inhabitants of N Britain, Scandinavia, N Germany, and the Netherlands. [C19: from French nordique, from nord north]. 1. Of, relating to, or characteristic of Scandinavia or its peoples, languages, or cultures. 2. Of or relating to a human physical type exemplified by the tall, narrow-headed, light-skinned, blond-haired peoples of Scandinavia.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mentality (Noun). A mindset; a way of thinking. Before he can succeed, he will have to shed the mentality that he can get by without hard work. 
nordic-resembling peoples of Scandinavia. blond, blonde, light-haired-being or having light colored skin and hair and usually blue or grey eyes; blond Scandinavians; a house full of light-haired children. 1. Of, relating to, or characteristic of Scandinavia or its peoples, languages, or cultures. 2. Of or relating to a human physical type exemplified by the tall, narrow-headed, light-skinned, blond-haired
Mr Tragardh has a useful phrase to describe this mentality: “statist individualism”. Nordic people take this attitude to government with them when they go abroad. In the 19th and early 20th centuries some 1.3m people, a quarter of the Swedish population at the time, emigrated, mostly to the United States. All the Nordic countries have small populations, which means that members of the ruling elites have to get on with each other. Their monarchs lived in relatively modest places and their barons had to strike bargains with independent-minded peasants and seafarers. They embraced liberalism early.
Nordic is not a language--it can refer to the language family also called the North Germanic or Scandinavian languages. Since this group includes Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, I … celandic, and Faroese, it's mostly spoken in the north of Europe. Answered. The Nordic countries are a geographical and cultural region in  Northern Europe and the North Atlantic. Including there autonomous  regions: The Aland Islands, the Faroe Isl … ands, and Greenland.
nordic people come from the Scandinavian group. that are sweden, norway, denmark, finland and western part of ussr. Latvia, Lithuania and estonia. those countries have got highest percent of blonde hair populations. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It can refer to 3 things: 1-Nordic countries: Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Iceland. 2-Nordic also refers to anyone who comes from the countries mentioned above.
The Nordic countries are; Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. (Then of course Åland, åland Faroe islands And greenland Are nordic countries Because Faroe islands And greenland are apart Of denmark Åland aland åland is Apart.). of finland The Nordic countries are a geographical and cultural region in  Northern Europe and the North Atlantic. Including there autonomous  regions: The Aland Islands, the Faroe Isl … ands, and Greenland.
• NORDIC (noun). The noun NORDIC has 1 sense: 1. the northern family of Germanic languages that are spoken in Scandinavia and Iceland. Familiarity information: NORDIC used as a noun is very rare. Norwegian (a Scandinavian language that is spoken in Norway). Swedish (a Scandinavian language that is the official language of Sweden and one of two official languages of Finland). Faeroese; Faroese (a Scandinavian language (closely related to Icelandic) that is spoken on the Faroe Islands). • NORDIC (adjective).
It refers to something related to the Nordic countries of Scandinavia. The universally accepted Scandinavian countries are Denmark, Sweden and Norway, though Iceland, Finland and Greenland can also be included. The Nordic countries are a geographical and cultural region in  Northern Europe and the North Atlantic. Including there autonomous  regions: The Aland Islands, the Faroe Isl … ands, and Greenland.