An ambitious project to manufacture a hundred per cent unit ... Professor El-Melegi, the Vice-president for Community Service and Environment Developm... A Committee of experts from Mansoura University to evaluate ... 16 Research Projects from Mansoura University for Technology and Scientific Research Academy. Looking forward for developing the scientific research system, Mansoura University represented by Prof. Al-sayed Abd El...
The Faculty Strategic Goals. Throughout the four strategic aims that were determined by the faculty to itself, some strategic goals were formulated and who belongs to the faculty of engineering ..... 
Mansoura University Participates in a Workshop in Mutah University in Jordan. Mansoura University represented by Prof. Al-Sayed Abd Al-Khalek; the president of the university participated in a work... 16 Research Projects from Mansoura University for Technology and Scientific Research Academy. Looking forward for developing the scientific research system, Mansoura University represented by Prof. Al-sayed Abd El...
The faculty of veterinary medicine futsal team won the first place for sports medical cup meeting. Registration & joining started in the program of Bachelor of Veterinary Medical Science in health and food safety starting from 2015/2016 academic year. Good news for students who will be admitted to colleges of Veterinary Medicine and also successful students appreciated acceptable in ...
61 training opportunities for Mansoura University students in Arab universities And 51 opportunities for Arab students in Mansoura University. Prof. Hassan Atman; Vice President of Mansoura University for Education and Student Affairs stated that Mansoura Univer... 16 Research Projects from Mansoura University for Technology and Scientific Research Academy. Looking forward for developing the scientific research system, Mansoura University represented by Prof. Al-sayed Abd El...
The mission of the faculty Computers and Information is to provide students with excellent teaching ... More. The vision of the faculty of Computers and Information at Mansoura University aims at providing excellence ... 
Faculty Objectives. Faculty of Science, Mansoura University, aims at achieving a set of goals: plans and programs of study in various basic science keep pace with the international standards, appropriate and feasible and compatible with the college and university message. Read More. 
Mansoura University is one of Egypt's largest universities. Established in 1972, it is located in the city of Mansoura. 