Overview Elavil is a brand name for Amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA.) It is a heterocyclic antidepressant-a class of drugs that inhibits the nerve cells' ability to reuptake norepinephrine and serotonin and brings the levels of these neurotransmitters back up to normal. Elavil is very sedating. 
I have seen bad reviews for this drug, but it is the only drug that helps me for depresson. A: Elavil (amitriptyline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/amitriptyline) belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used by other conditions by the doctor. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/depression/understanding.aspx). Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, and blurred vision.
A: Amitriptyline (Elavil) belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness and blurred vision. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used by other conditions by the doctor. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/depression/understanding.aspx). Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness,
Featured: amitriptyline (Elavil, Endep) Main Article. Amitriptyline (Endep [Elavil-this brand name drug is no longer available in the U.S.])is an antidepressant medication. In patients with depression, abnormal levels of brain chemicals called neurotransmitters may relate to their depression
19. Amitriptyline (Elavil) is the most researched of the prophylactic agents for chronic tension-type headache. It is typically used in doses of 10 to 75 mg, one to two hours before bedtime to minimize grogginess on awakening. 
Other medications can affect the removal of amitriptyline from your body, thereby affecting how amitriptyline works. These drugs include cimetidine, terbinafine, drugs to treat irregular heart rate (such as quinidine/propafenone/flecainide), antidepressants (such as SSRIs including paroxetine/fluoxetine/fluvoxamine). Uses. This medication is used to treat mental/mood problems such as depression. It may help improve mood and feelings of well-being, relieve anxiety and tension, help you sleep better, and increase your energy level. This medication belongs to a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressants.
Amitriptyline is a prescription drug licensed for the treatment of depression. Amitriptyline hydrochloride (Elavil ®) is a prescription medication that is used to treat depression. Effectiveness of Amitriptyline. Studies have shown that amitriptyline is effective for the treatment of depression. It may also be used off-label to help relieve chronic pain and to prevent migraine headaches. It can also help with bedwetting, ADHD, fibromyalgia, and bulimia.
Uses of This Medicine. Amitriptyline is used to treat symptoms of depression. It works on the central nervous system (CNS) to increase levels of certain chemicals in the brain. This medicine is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Elavil sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. (amitriptyline HCI). Suicidality and Antidepressant Drugs. Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders.