The probiotics business unit is part of Danisco's Cultures Division-a global leader in supplying starter cultures, probiotics and enzymes, focusing on taste, texture and health functionalities for the nutrition, health and dairy industries. For more information about HOWARU™ probiotics, visit www.danisco.com. Attune's proprietary chocolate and granola bars combine great-taste with the digestive and immunity benefits of probiotics for everyday wellness-delivering five times the live active cultures found in yogurt. Attune products are refrigerated to ensure maximum freshness and efficacy upon purchase.
Probiotics are microorganisms that are believed to provide health benefits when consumed. The term probiotic is currently used to name ingested microorganisms associated with beneficial effects to humans and animals. The term came into more common use after 1980. 
HOWARU greets South Africa. 01-Sep-2003 2003-09-01T00:00:00Z. In a break with tradition, Danish ingredients firm Danisco is to license the HOWARU probiotics brand directly to a retailer, the upmarket South African chain Woolworths.
HOWARU Super Strains. Life 5 probiotic supplement with bifidus, acidophilus, lactobacillus, rhamnosus and calcium represents the culmination of years of extensive research. The best probiotics always contain HOWARU super strains which are proven to support healthy digestive and immune systems. 
Probiotic Cultures. DuPont is a world leader in probiotic culture development under the HOWARU brand. Lactobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium lactis, Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Lactobacillus casei are available as freeze dried individual strains. The HOWARU range all have clinical evidence of their efficacy
The cultures were placed on the market in July 2002. Danisco has adopted a selective approach to marketing the HOWARU range, working with only a handful of companies, because of the large number of probiotics on the market, and Danisco's reluctance to cut prices in order to gain competitive edge, said O'Regan. 01-Sep-2003 2003-09-01T00:00:00Z. In a break with tradition, Danish ingredients firm Danisco is to license the HOWARU probiotics brand directly to a retailer, the upmarket South African chain Woolworths.
HOWARU Bifido is a Danisco company-trademarked name for the probiotic lactic acid bacteria bacteria Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis HN019. Now if you aren't confused enough, HOWARU Bifido is also the same microbe as B. lactis DR10, Bifidus DR10, and B. lactis HN019 (with the B meaning Bifidobacterium.). 
Probiotic selection guide for dietary supplements and nutritionals HOWARU ® premium probiotics represent Danisco’s range of highly documented, health-enhancing cultures. All single strain options — HOWARU Dophilus, Bifido and Rhamnosus — have been specifically selected for their immune-modulating properties. 
HOWARU is the name of the probiotic cultures we add to our yoghurts to help keep your body in balance. As a regular part of a balanced diet, HOWARU probiotic cultures help the digestive system function the way it should by reducing the growth of harmful bacteria. As well as extending the range to include yoghurts with prebiotic Inulin fibre and a yoghurt with added omega 3 to promote heart health, Woolworths yoghurts contain their exclusive HOWARU probiotic cultures to help stimulate the immune system and assist in lactose digestion.
HOWARU® Premium Probiotics. Probiotic for unique formulations with proven stability. HOWARU® is our trademark for a range of specific premium probiotic strains – health-enhancing bacteria that are widely used in food and beverage products and dietary supplements. While the traditional delivery vehicle for probiotics was fresh dairy products, they are now found in many varieties of food, beverages, dietary supplements and healthcare products. Most probiotics are either lactobacilli or bifidobacteria.