Prawns are low in calories and contain no carbohydrates. Although the cholesterol content of prawns is significant, these shellfish also contain heart-healthy, omega-3 fatty acids.
Omega 3 oils found in prawns assist in blood circulation by lowering blood fats and preventing blood clot formation. This aids blood circulation and researchers believe it reduces the risk of heart attack and stroke.
Vitamin B12 or cobalamin is a nutrient found in animal foods, such as meat, poultry, fish, eggs and dairy. There are very few vegan food sources of this essential nutrient. However, shrimp is one of the better food sources.
Shrimp is a low-calorie food but rich in nutrients, such as vitamins. Shrimp are crustaceans that may be served hot or cold. This nutritious, protein-rich alternative to meat has, when raw, a translucent, firm yet tender, mild tasting flesh.
Prawns are a good source of complete protein, providing your body with all of the building blocks necessary for the production of new proteins. A 3-oz. serving of boiled or steamed prawns contains about 100 calories and more than 22 g of protein, roughly the same amount found in a comparable serving of beef or chicken.
1 Additional information about the amount of these nutrients provided by Shrimp can be found in the Food Rating System Chart. 2  A link that takes you to the In-Depth Nutritional Profile for Shrimp, featuring information over 80 nutrients, can be found under
NUTRITION. According to nutritionist Dr Rosemary Stanton, prawns are an excellent source of protein, a good source of omega 3 fatty acids and a great way to get iron, zinc and vitamin E. They are also low in saturated fats. Prawns are extremely low in fat and calories, yet packed with nutrition.
Prawns provide you with significant amounts of vitamins B-12, B-6 and niacin. These vitamins aid your body in producing energy, manufacturing red blood cells and maintaining normal nerve function. Prawns are rich in iron, a mineral your body requires to produce red blood cells and oxygen-carrying muscle proteins. Other important minerals in prawns include zinc, selenium, copper, magnesium and phosphorus. Zinc and selenium promote healthy functioning of your immune system.