Within the nephron (the functional unit of the kidneys), filtration occurs in the glomerolus. The filtered fluid is called filtrate. Reabsorption of filtrate occurs in a few places within the nephron, however, the majority of reabsorption takes place in the proximal convoluted tube. It is important to mention that additional reabsorption occurs in the Loop of Henle, distal convoluted tube, and the collecting ducts as well. Again, however, MOST reabsorption of filtrate from the glomerolus takes place in the proximal convoluted tube of the nephron.
Within the nephron (the functional unit of the kidneys), filtration occurs in the glomerolus. The filtered fluid is called filtrate. Reabsorption of filtrate occurs in a … few places within the nephron, however, the majority of reabsorption takes place in the proximal convoluted tube.
Reabsorption in a nephron occurs in the Loop of Henle Reabsorption has been addressed to substances which are absorbed back from the nerphrone back in to the blood(capillaries …). On other hand Secretion is the absorption of substances from blood.
Im really confused as to where in the nephron of the kidney each of the three steps of urine formation occur the steps include: 1. glomerular filtration 2. tubular reabsorption 3.tubular secretion does glomerular filtration occur in the renal corpuscle, then the tubular reabsorption occur in the proximal...
Filtration is the mass movement of water and solutes from plasma to the renal tubule that occurs in the renal corpuscle. About 20% of the plasma volume passing through the glomerulus at any given time is filtered. This means that about 180 liters of fluid are filtered by the kidneys every day.
Water reabsorption is a passive process: water is reabsorbed by osmosis. In most of the nephron, water reabsorption is unregulated and coupled to solute reabsorption.
Reabsorption. Reabsorption is the movement of water and solutes from the tubule back into the plasma. Reabsorption of water and specific solutes occurs to varying degrees over the entire length of the renal tubule. Bulk reabsorption, which is not under hormonal control, occurs largely in the proximal tubule.