A network video recorder (NVR) is a software program that records video in a digital format to a disk drive, USB flash drive, SD memory card or other mass storage device. Video on a DVR is encoded and processed at the DVR, while video on an NVR is encoded and processed at the camera, then streamed to the NVR for storage or remote viewing. Hybrid NVR/DVR security systems exist which incorporate functions of both NVR and DVR; these are considered a form of NVR.
NVR, Inc. (NYSE: NVR) is a United States homebuilding and mortgage company. The homebuilding unit sells and constructs new homes under the Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Rymarc Homes, Fox Ridge Homes and Heartland Homes trade names. 
Let’s begin by outlining the name structural. DVR (Digital Video Recorder): An analog and/or IP based recorder is a consumer electronic device or application software that records video in a digital format to a disk drive, USB flash drive, SD memory card or other local or networked mass storage device. Video on a DVR is encoded and processed at the DVR, while video on an NVR is encoded and processed at the camera, then streamed to the NVR for storage or remote viewing. An NVR is a software program that records video in a digital format to a disk drive, USB flash drive, SD memory card or other mass storage device. An NVR contains no dedicated video capture hardware. However, the software is typically run on a dedicated device, usually with an embedded operating system
This is a quick video demonstration of the differences between a DVR and an NVR. In this video you can learn how an NVR is connected to a Router and also the type of cables that it uses. Also you can see the type of cable that a regular DVR uses. To find out more information or to purchase one go here:
A Network Video Recorder, or NVR is an internet protocol (IP) based device that sits on your computer network. Since the NVR sits on your computer network, Network Video Recorders can be accessed and managed remotely via your Local Area Network (LAN) or over the Internet, allowing you greater flexibility. A Digital Video Recorder (DVR) is a device that records video in a digital format to a disk drive. DVRs made specifically for CCTV Security Surveillance System applications record video signals from security cameras.
3. Another difference between a DVR and an NVR is access. To view the video that was recorded, you need to be at the DVR (or burn a disk if you want to view it elsewhere). But with an NVR, due to its very nature of being on a network, you can view it remotely. 4. Finally, paring security cameras with NVR’s is actually more restrictive than doing so with DVR’s.
Organization. NVR, Inc. operates in two business segments: homebuilding and mortgage banking. The homebuilding unit sells and constructs homes under the Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Fox Ridge Homes and Heartland Homes. As a corporate entity, NVR, Inc. provides various support functions for each of its sub-entities. NVR homebuilding operations serve 27 metropolitan areas in fourteen states, including Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida and Tennessee, as well as Washington D.C.