You should receive a breakdown of the service charges with the bill. You have the right to inspect and take copies of the accounts, receipts and other relevant documents. If the freeholder won't let you, they are committing a criminal offence. Service charges are fees that most leaseholders pay to cover their share of the cost of maintaining the building they live in. Service charges usually cover the costs of: 1  repairs to communal areas and the structure of the building, such as roof, windows, pipes, drains.
Check your lease if you are not sure what your service charges cover. Most leases have a section that covers general services not specifically mentioned in the lease. If your lease doesn't have this type of clause, you don't have to pay for anything that isn't specifically included in the lease. The amount you pay in service charges can vary from one year to the next. Service charges are fees that most leaseholders pay to cover their share of the cost of maintaining the building they live in. Service charges usually cover the costs of: 1  repairs to communal areas and the structure of the building, such as roof, windows, pipes, drains.
Scouting serves young men and women in every part of the country through nearly 300 local council service centers. Each council helps chartered organizations in its geographic area to effectively use the Scouting program and to expand the use of the program to other community groups. 
Make a payment for any council service using our secure online system. Always close your browser session after a failed payment attempt if you are not intending to continue and retry immediately. You will need the following information for both phone and internet transactions: 1  Your payment reference number. Available 24/7
Paying your rent and service charges. When you pay your rent and service charges on time you contribute to the continuously improving service for you and your neighbours. Late rent payments mean we have less to spend on repairing and improving your home and the area you live in. By phone. You can pay your rent by credit or debit card by calling our 24-hour automated telephone service on 020 8290 2086. You will need your nine-digit rent payment reference number, which you can find at the top of your rent statement or any rent arrears letters we may have sent you. back to top
Cheque or Money Order. Please send your cheque or money order to any of the addresses above. The cheque or money order should be made payable to Pasir Ris-Punggol Town Council. Please remember to write your full address/ IC number or Service and Conservancy Charges (S&CC) Account Number at the back of the cheque. S&CC is due on the first day of every month and payable without demand from the Town Council. We give our residents a one-month grace period to pay their S&CC. This means that if payment is made within the month, late payment penalty fee will not be imposed.
The local taxation unit is responsible for the collection of your council tax and business rates for Walsall Council. These pages will help to answer some of your questions about our service and provide a number of online services. 
To make a payment online log on to www.camden.gov.uk/pay and under the heading “Residential” select “Leaseholders service charges”. If you wish to you can pay using your personal internet banking. Payment should be made to Camden’s Bank Sort Code 503003 and Account Number 24312835. Register to view your account and make online payments at www.camden.gov.uk/camdenaccount. Please register using your full name as it appears on your service charge account. You will also need your customer number as shown on the front of your invoice.