The meningococcal vaccine protects you from four types of bacteria that cause meningococcal disease. This illness can cause meningitis, an infection of the lining around the brain or spinal cord. It can also cause a blood infection (meningococcal bacteremia), pneumonia, and other problems. 
Yes, there are vaccines that protect against some forms of meningitis and septicaemia, but although these vaccines provide excellent protection, they can't prevent all strains of these diseases. As yet there is no vaccine that can prevent all forms of meningitis and septicaemia. Immunisation has dramatically reduced cases of Hib meningitis, but in countries which have not introduced the vaccine, Hib is still a major cause of serious disease in children. References. 1  JCVI Statement: Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) Disease and Hib Vaccine.
Group B meningococcal bacteria currently cause around 50% of all meningitis and septicaemia in the UK. A new MenB vaccine, called Bexsero®, which is licensed in Europe, has recently been recommended for all babies in the UK. Immunisation has dramatically reduced cases of Hib meningitis, but in countries which have not introduced the vaccine, Hib is still a major cause of serious disease in children. References. 1  JCVI Statement: Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) Disease and Hib Vaccine.
1 The vaccine is not 'live' and cannot cause even a mild form of meningitis or septicaemia. 2  There are no new ingredients in the vaccine. 3  All ingredients of the MenC vaccine have already been given to millions of children over many years as components of other vaccines, without causing any harm. Immunisation has dramatically reduced cases of Hib meningitis, but in countries which have not introduced the vaccine, Hib is still a major cause of serious disease in children. References. 1  JCVI Statement: Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) Disease and Hib Vaccine.
When quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine was first recommended for preteens and teens in 2005, the expectation was that protection would last for 10 years; however, currently available data suggest protection declines in most teens within 5 years. Teens age 16 through 18 years can get the booster dose at any time. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
Meningococcal vaccine refers to any one of a number of vaccines used against Neisseria meningitidis, a bacterium that causes meningitis, meningococcemia, septicemia, and rarely carditis, septic arthritis, or pneumonia. 
1 The meningococcal vaccine has been found to be about 58 percent effective within two to five years after adolescents have gotten the shot and, in 2011, CDC recommended that all 16 year olds get a booster dose of meningococcal vaccine; 1 Invasive meningococcal disease is a bacterial infection that involves inflammation of the meninges of the brain and can lead to a serious blood infection.