In flowering plants, the sporophyte comprises the whole multicellular body except the pollen and embryo sac. Bryophytes (mosses, liverworts and hornworts) have a dominant gametophyte phase on which the adult sporophyte is dependent for nutrition. The embryo sporophyte develops by cell division of the zygote within the female sex organ or archegonium, and in its early development is therefore nurtured by the gametophyte. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half. The resulting meiospores develop into a gametophyte.
Young sporophytes of the common moss Tortula muralis. In mosses, the gametophyte is the dominant generation, while the sporophytes consist of sporangium-bearing stalks growing from the tips of the gametophytes. A sporophyte (/spɔːroʊˌfaɪt/) is the diploid multicellular stage in the life cycle of a plant or alga. The sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as reduction division that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half. The resulting meiospores develop into a gametophyte.
Pine gametophyte (outside) surrounding the embryo (inside). A gametophyte is the haploid multicellular stage in the alternation of generations life cycle of plants and algae. It develops from a spore by mitotic cell division. Spores are the products of meiosis in sporophytes. Gametophytes produce haploid gametes by mitosis. The fusion of male and female gametes produces a diploid zygote, which develops by repeated mitotic cell divisions into a multicellular sporophyte. In bryophytes (mosses, liverworts, and hornworts), the gametophyte represents the longer lived, nutritionally independent and more visible stage of the life cycle.
Gametophyte stage occurs when cells in reproductive organs undergo meiosis and produce haploid cells. Sporophyte stage is the joining of haploid sex cells. These two stages he … lp in the production of a new plant. + 5 others found this useful. 
Life cycle of a Bryophyte (moss). The moss sporophyte depends on the gametophyte and is not a free‐living independent plant. The spores form after meiosis and germinate to develop into male or female gametophytes. Moss sperm are produced from cells in the antheridia of the male gametophyte. The moss eggs are located at the base of the archegonia, on the female gametophyte. Each sperm has two flagella. Sperm swim to the eggs and after fertilization, the zygote develops into the sporophyte.
About the Sporophyte Stage. Ferns in the sporophyte stage have spore-bearing fronds called sporophylls that produce clusters of sporangia on their undersides. These contain cells that become spore mother cells, and each of these splits into meiospores. The sporangia erupt when they mature, shooting dust-like spores into the air
First, all plants undergo an alternation of generations, between a haploid gametophyte stage and a diploid sporophyte stage. In the most primitive plants, like mosses, the gametophyte is dominant (i.e. it's big and green). In higher plants like ferns and fern allies, the sporophyte stage is dominant. Gametophytes produce gametes (sperm and eggs) in a special structure called a gametangium (-ia), while sporophytes produce spores in a special structure called a sporangium (-ia). Second, all plants need to get water to their cells.
Brightfield Digital Image Gallery Fern Sporophyte Fern is a common name for the cryptogamous (spore-producing) plants belonging to the division Filicophyta, also called Filicinophyta or Pterophyta of seedless vascular plants. They are primitive vascular plants with true roots, stems, and complex leaves. The asexual form, or sporophyte form, is represented by the fern plant as it is commonly known and is diploid (2N). Sporophytes can reproduce either by vegetative cloning via their rhizomes or through spore formation via meiosis.