Multigrain Seeded Bread. Sunflower seeds, sesame seeds, and pumpkin seeds are incorporated into the dough of this whole wheat bread and liberally sprinkled onto the crust, giving this bread a well rounded flavor and lots of texture. 
Description. Sesame seeds are tiny, flat oval seeds with a nutty taste and a delicate, almost invisible crunch. They come in a host of different colors, depending upon the variety, including white, yellow, black and red. Sesame seeds are highly valued for their high content of sesame oil, an oil that is very resistant to rancidity
Together, these compounds help stave off harmful free radicals from the human body. Sesame is among the seeds rich in quality vitamins, and minerals. They are very good sources of B-complex vitamins such as niacin, folic acid, thiamin (vitamin B1), pyridoxine (vitamin B6), and riboflavin. 100 g of sesame contains 97 µg of folic acid, about 25% of recommended daily intake.
Sesame has one of the highest oil contents of any seed. With a rich, nutty flavor, it is a common ingredient in cuisines across the world. Like other nuts and foods, it can trigger allergic reactions in some people. The world harvested about 4.8 million metric tonnes of sesame seeds in 2013. Sesame seed is one of the oldest oilseed crops known, domesticated well over 3000 years ago. Sesame has many species, most being wild and native to sub-Saharan Africa.
In addition, sesame seeds contain many health benefiting compounds such as sesamol (3, 4-methylene-dioxyphenol), sesaminol, furyl-methanthiol, guajacol (2-methoxyphenol), phenylethanthiol and furaneol, vinylguacol, and decadienal. Sesamol and sesaminol are phenolic anti-oxidants. Sesame is among the seeds rich in quality vitamins, and minerals. They are very good sources of B-complex vitamins such as niacin, folic acid, thiamin (vitamin B1), pyridoxine (vitamin B6), and riboflavin. 100 g of sesame contains 97 µg of folic acid, about 25% of recommended daily intake.
Calcium, iron, manganese, zinc, magnesium, selenium, and copper are especially concentrated in sesame seeds. Many of these minerals have a vital role in bone mineralization, red blood cell production, enzyme synthesis, hormone production, as well as regulation of cardiac and skeletal muscle activities. Sesame is among the seeds rich in quality vitamins, and minerals. They are very good sources of B-complex vitamins such as niacin, folic acid, thiamin (vitamin B1), pyridoxine (vitamin B6), and riboflavin. 100 g of sesame contains 97 µg of folic acid, about 25% of recommended daily intake.
Sesame seeds add a nutty taste and a delicate, almost invisible, crunch to many Asian dishes. They are also the main ingredients in tahini (sesame seed paste) and the wonderful Middle Eastern sweet call halvah. They are available throughout the year. Sesame seeds may be the oldest condiment known to man. Sesame seeds are tiny, flat oval seeds with a nutty taste and a delicate, almost invisible crunch. They come in a host of different colors, depending upon the variety, including white, yellow, black and red.
Sesame (/ˈsɛsəmiː/ ; Sesamum indicum) is a flowering plant in the genus Sesamum. Numerous wild relatives occur in Africa and a smaller number in India. It is widely naturalized in tropical regions around the world and is cultivated for its edible seeds, which grow in pods. Sesame seed is one of the oldest oilseed crops known, domesticated well over 3000 years ago. Sesame has many species, most being wild and native to sub-Saharan Africa.
Sesame seed is one of the first recorded seasonings. It grows widely in India and Asia. These tiny seeds come in shades of brown, red and black, but the most common color is a pale grayish-ivory. Sesame seeds have a nutty, sweet aroma with a milk-like, buttery taste. Plural: Sesame seeds. Season: available year-round
Hindi Name: Kale Til, Safed Til. These seeds from the sesame plant have a nutty flavor. The husked ones are called white sesame and the un-husked are black. They are widely used in Indian, Chinese, Japanese and Korean cooking. With a crunchy texture and a nutty taste, they are added to many dishes for the extra flavor. Black sesame seeds: The best to make oil from, the black variety also has higher medicinal value and flavor. They also have a nutty taste and are used in several dishes and as crispy garnish. Red sesame seeds: Their iron content gives them the red color, they are very healthy.