Definition. Europe, Middle East and Africa. A designation for the division of a company that operates in the regions of Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. The EMEA division of a company will usually be operated and run separately from the United States division.
Confidence votes 32.4K. The EMEA region is a term used for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. A list of each country situated in the following areas are located in the links below. There are; 58 countries in Europe 56 countries in Africa 14 countries in the Middle East For a grand total of 128 countries in the EMEA. 23 people found this useful. Edit.
Brief Background on EMEA. EMEA is a designation given to a set of countries in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa for business purposes. Most commonly it is used for sales and marketing purposes but it is also used for other aspects of business including production and logistics. Additional Background on the EMEA countries List. The EMEA region consists of more land mass than any of the other business regions (APAC, AMER, or LATAM). The EMEA region also spans 4 continents, Europe, Africa, Asia, and because of Greenland North America as well.
DEFINITION of 'Europe, Middle East and Africa-EMEA'. The region classification for a division of an international company that operates in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The EMEA abbreviation will often be placed alongside the international company's name to denote that its operations are focused on the EMEA. For example, Microsoft EMEA is run by a different CEO than Microsoft USA and its focus is solely on the EMEA region.
The EMEA region is a term used for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. There are; 58 countries in Europe 56 countries in Africa 14 countries in the Middle East For a grand total of 128 countries in the EMEA. 23 people found this useful. Edit.
EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa, marked on a worldmap. EMEA (or EMEIA if India is included), is a shorthand designation meaning Europe, the Middle East and Africa. It is used by institutions, governments as well as in marketing and business. It is particularly common among North American companies. The region is generally accepted to include all European nations, all African Nations, and extends east to Iran, but including Russia. Typically this does not include independent overseas territories of mainland countries in the region, such as French Guyana.
EMEA Country List in Alphabetical Order. The EMEA region consists of more land mass than any of the other business regions (APAC, AMER, or LATAM). The EMEA region also spans 4 continents, Europe, Africa, Asia, and because of Greenland North America as well. Additional Background on the EMEA countries List. The EMEA region consists of more land mass than any of the other business regions (APAC, AMER, or LATAM). The EMEA region also spans 4 continents, Europe, Africa, Asia, and because of Greenland North America as well.