Algae are a diverse group of all photosynthetic organisms that are not plants. Algae are important in marine, freshwater, and some terrestrial ecosystems. Seaweeds are large marine algae. The study of algae is called phycology. Algae may be unicellular, colonial, or multicellular. Some algae, like the diatoms, are microscopically small. Other algae, like kelp, are as big as trees. Some algae, the phytoplankton, drift in the water. Other algae, the epiphitic or benthic algae, grow attached to rocks, docks, plants, and other solid objects.
Using the term 'plants' in its most restrictive fashion, the algae are then photosynthetic organisms excepting the sister group to the Charales (i.e. the land plants). Such a definition allows inclusion of photosynthetic prokaryotes such as the cyanobacteria. The algae are a polyphyletic and paraphyletic group of organisms. They are defined in differing ways, but are usually considered to be the photosynthetic organisms excepting plants.
Some unicellular species of green algae, many golden algae, euglenids, dinoflagellates and other algae have become heterotrophs (also called colorless or apochlorotic algae), sometimes parasitic, relying entirely on external energy sources and have limited or no photosynthetic apparatus. Some species of algae form symbiotic relationships with other organisms. In these symbioses, the algae supply photosynthates (organic substances) to the host organism providing protection to the algal cells.
The green algae (singular: green alga) are a large, informal grouping of algae consisting of the Chlorophyte and Charophyte algae, which are now placed in separate Divisions. The land plants or Embryophytes (higher plants) are thought to have emerged from the Charophytes. There are about 8,000 species of green algae. Many species live most of their lives as single cells, while other species form coenobia (colonies), long filaments, or highly differentiated macroscopic seaweeds. A few other organisms rely on green algae to conduct photosynthesis for them.
Ranging from microscopic, single-celled organisms to large seaweeds, algae are simple plants that form the base of food webs. Sometimes, however, their roles are much more sinister. A small percentage of algal species produce toxins that can kill fish, mammals, and birds, and may cause human illness. 
The brown algae are members of the stramenopiles (or heterokonts), together with organisms such as diatoms and oomycetes. The stramenopiles diverged from other major eukaryotic groups such as the opisthokonts (animals and fungi) and the archaeplastida (which includes land plants) over a billion years ago. The brown algae are an interesting group of organisms from several points of view. They are the dominant organisms in many coastal ecosystems, where they often form large, underwater forests.
Algae: Protists with Chloroplasts. The algae are a polyphyletic and paraphyletic group of organisms. They are defined in differing ways, but are usually considered to be the photosynthetic organisms excepting plants.
Chlorophyll is not the only photosynthetic pigment found in algae and phytoplankton. There are also carotenoids,and phycobilins (biliproteins). These accessory pigments are responsible for other organism colors, such as yellow, red, blue and brown. Despite their ability to conduct photosynthesis for energy, blue-green algae are a type of bacteria. This means that they are single-celled, prokaryotic (simple) organisms. Prokaryotic means that the cyanobacteria do not have a nucleus or other membrane-bound organelles within their cell wall 5.
Algae are in the plant kingdom, but technically they are not plants. A diverse group of organisms, algae survive in even the harshest habitats. From the dry desert, to the Arctic Circle, to boiling springs, these organisms have found a way to extract enough from their environment to live. 
Algae have photosynthetic machinery ultimately derived from cyanobacteria that produce oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesis, unlike other photosynthetic bacteria such as purple and green sulfur bacteria. Some species of algae form symbiotic relationships with other organisms. In these symbioses, the algae supply photosynthates (organic substances) to the host organism providing protection to the algal cells.