Active SMART is industry-leading software for computers that use S.M.A.R.T. technology. It utilizes S.M.A.R.T. to monitor your hard drive health status and disk temperature, predict possible drive fail and prevent data loss. Download the free trial version of Active SMART and check out your hard drive now. Hard disk low level format utilities. S.M.A.R.T. utility. ActiveSMART is the leading S.M.A.R.T. technology utility for hard drives. Use it to see the SMART status of the drive, check health and performance and instantly monitor your disk for possible disk failures.
Smart Technologies introduced the first Smart Board interactive whiteboard in 1991. It was the first interactive whiteboard to provide touch control of computer applications and annotation over standard Microsoft Windows applications. In 2003, Smart developed and later patented DViT (Digital Vision Touch) technology. In 2011, Smart Technologies celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Smart Board interactive whiteboard, which coincided with the installation of the two millionth interactive whiteboard. As of October 2011, Smart employs more than 1,700 people.
There’s a lot of talk these days about ‘smart’ things: smart phones, for example. But it’s not always very clear what ‘smart’ really means. It sometimes seems as though it just means a phone you can use to also surf the web. In reality a smartphone is only barely a phone. Smart glasses build a soundscape of the world. Meanwhile Spanish engineers have equipped a pair of sunglasses with two micro cameras and headphones in a system called EYE 21. The system makes a 3D model of the space the cameras see and represents it with sounds.
In 2011, the Smart Technologies Headquarters in Calgary, Alberta, received Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold standard certification. In 2011, Smart Technologies celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Smart Board interactive whiteboard, which coincided with the installation of the two millionth interactive whiteboard. As of October 2011, Smart employs more than 1,700 people.
S.M.A.R.T. (Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology; often written as SMART) is a monitoring system included in computer hard disk drives (HDDs) and solid-state drives (SSDs) that detects and reports on various indicators of drive reliability, with the intent of enabling the anticipation of hardware failures. When S.M.A.R.T. data indicates a possible imminent drive failure, software running on the host system may notify the user so stored data can be copied to another storage device, preventing data loss, and the failing drive can be replaced.
Simply put – smart technology goes one step further than the average ‘on and off’ mechanics of electronics. Smart Technology has interactive qualities which often grant the user remote control via the internet. A great example of Smart Technology is the Nest thermostat (left). It learns your preferences from usage and is able to react accordingly. Home automation allows lights, entertainment and heating to be controlled through smart phones from any location. Smart TV’s are TV’s which are connected to the internet via wi-fi or broadband and allow the user to access content online. Apps, web browsers and your home file network can be accessed – expanding the capabilities of your TV from one way receiver, to interactive user interface.
Smart Technologies Corporation is a publicly traded company headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Founded in 1987, Smart Technologies is best known as the developer of the Smart Board interactive whiteboard. In 2011, Smart Technologies celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Smart Board interactive whiteboard, which coincided with the installation of the two millionth interactive whiteboard. As of October 2011, Smart employs more than 1,700 people.
1. Smart technology is a way of connecting your home through innovative technology to control and give homeowners an “on-demand access to various systems throughout your home. From video, data, telephone, wireless, security, climate, lighting and other home lifestyle factors that affect you and your family’s daily life. 3. Saving energy and controlling safety in the kitchen: Many homeowners think that smart technology is only for people who want to have a remote control to everything! On the contrary, many smart home technologies actually help keep your family safe while saving you water and energy in the kitchen.
In our ever-changing hi-technology world it seems like everyone is turning to “smart” technology. From the phone and tablet you carry in your pocket to controlling your home’s heating and air conditioning while away on vacation on a tropical beach, smart technology is everywhere. 3. Saving energy and controlling safety in the kitchen: Many homeowners think that smart technology is only for people who want to have a remote control to everything! On the contrary, many smart home technologies actually help keep your family safe while saving you water and energy in the kitchen.