R-group Hydrocarbon Neutral Acid or base where the COOH is understood to be the carboxyl group shown above. There are 20 amino acids which make up the proteins, distinguished by the R-group. The simplest of the amino acids, glycine, has just H as an R-group. Amino acids are the structural elements from which proteins are built. When amino acids bond to each other, it is done in the form of an amide, making a connection which is called a peptide linkag
Two amino acid molecules, such as glycine and alanine shown here, can bond together using the carboxylic acid group of one and the amino group of the other by means of a dehydration reaction to form what is called a dipeptide. The name of this dipeptide is glycylalanine. The-ine ending of the glycine is changed to-yl because it's-OH is lost in the dehydration reaction, making it a glycyl group. The glycyl group is attached to the alanine making
Alanine is one of the 20 most common natural amino acids. It is hydrophobic, with a methyl group side chain, and is the second-smallest of the 20 after glycine. Alanine is a non-essential amino acid that is involved in the metabolism of tryptophan and the vitamin pyridoxine. 
It is now also an amino acid residue rather than an amino acid molecule. So, in the reaction above, glycine and alanine molecules are joined together to make a dipeptide molecule of glycylalanine which contains a glycine residue and an alanine residue. Zwitter Ions. Dipeptide Structure. As drawn, we have a nitrogen atom with three single bonds and, of course, a pair of electrons. The name of this dipeptide is glycylalanine. The-ine ending of the glycine is changed to-yl because it's-OH is lost in the dehydration reaction, making it a glycyl group. The glycyl group is attached to the alanine making
Exactly. Amino acids can join together in a condensation reaction, when the amine group of one molecule reacts with the carboxylic acid group of a second molecule, eliminating a molecule of water. They form a peptide link (-CO-NH-). Two amino acids form a dipeptide; three form a tripeptide and so on. When glycine joins to a different amino acid (R does not equal H), then there are two possible dipeptides. As there are 22 different natural amino acids (20 being common amino acids), there are huge numbers of different products possible when amino acids join together.
Glycine is very evolutionarily stable at certain positions of some proteins (for example, in cytochrome c, myoglobin, and hemoglobin), because mutations that change it to an amino acid with a larger side chain could break the protein's structure. Most proteins contain only small quantities of glycine. It is the simplest of the 20 natural amino acids; its side chain is a hydrogen atom. Because there is a second hydrogen atom at the ± carbon, glycine is not optically active. Since glycine has such a small side chain, it can fit into many places where no other amino acid can.
Symbol: Gly G Molecular Weight: 75.07 Isolectric point (pH) 6.06 Molecular Formula: C2H5NO2. Glycine is a nonpolar amino acid. It is the simplest of the 20 natural amino acids; its side chain is a hydrogen atom. Because there is a second hydrogen atom at the ± carbon, glycine is not optically active. Since glycine has such a small side chain, it can fit into many places where no other amino acid can.
Lots of amino acid molecules → a protein molecule. Glycine is an amino acid. Alanine is also an amino acid. It has a CH3 group instead of a hydrogen atom. There are only about 20 different naturally occurring amino acids. However, each protein molecule [molecule: A molecule is a collection of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds.
Among these are the amino (-NH2) and acid (-COOH) groups. Amino acids, which contain both of these groups, are the building blocks of proteins. Glycine and alanine are examples of amino acids. One amino acid can join with another forming a peptide bond. Thus glycine and alanine can combine by the COOH (carboxyl) group combining with the NH2 (amino) group, to form a combined molecule and H2O. 