Examples of precipitation are: 1  As a weather condition: Water (Hail, Rain, Sleet, Snow) falling from the sky. 2  As a chemical reaction: The formation of an insoluble material when two mixtures containing soluble chemicals are mixed (eg: AgNO3 (aq) + KCl (aq) → AgCl (s) + KNO3 (aq)). A precipitation solution is just like asking what is a precipitate; it is an insoluble solid compound that forms out of the water solution in an aqueous solution.
EXAMPLE 1 – Predicting Precipitation Reactions: Predict whether a precipitate will form when water solutions of silver nitrate, AgNO 3 (aq), and sodium sulfide, Na 2 S(aq), are mixed. If there is a precipitation reaction, write the complete and net ionic equation that describes the reaction. T he following is a typical problem. Predict whether a precipitate will form when water solutions of silver nitrate, AgNO 3 (aq), and sodium sulfide, Na 2 S(aq), are mixed. If there is a precipitation reaction, write the complete and net ionic equation that describes the reaction.
In meteorology, precipitation is any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour that falls under gravity. The main forms of precipitation include drizzle, rain, sleet, snow, graupel and hail. Precipitation occurs when a portion of the atmosphere becomes saturated with water vapour, so that the water condenses and precipitates. Thus, fog and mist are not precipitation but suspensions, because the water vapour does not condense sufficiently to precipitate.
Also the name given to the solid that is formed as a result of a precipitation reaction. Example: Mixing silver nitrate and sodium chloride in water will cause silver chloride to precipitate out of solution as a solid. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index. 
A precipitate is a solid that forms out of solution. A common example is that of the mixing of two clear solutions: (1) silver nitrate (AgNO3) and (2) sodium chloride (NaCl): The reaction is. The precipitate forms because the solid (AgCl) is insoluble in water. That is true for all precipitates-the solids are insoluble in aqueous solutions. A common example is that of the mixing of two clear solutions: (1) silver nitrate (AgNO3) and (2) sodium chloride (NaCl): The reaction is
Lesson 3: Precipitation Reactions. A precipitation reaction is a reaction in which soluble ions in separate solutions are mixed together to form an insoluble compound that settles out of solution as a solid. That insoluble compound is called a precipitate. Solubility Rules for Ionic Compounds. 
Precipitation Reactions A precipitate is a solid that forms out of solution. A common example is that of the mixing of two clear solutions: (1) silver nitrate (AgNO3) and (2) sodium chloride (NaCl): The reaction is The precipitate forms because the solid (AgCl) is insoluble in water.