It’s generally suggested to wait at least four weeks between coloring hair. That’s the minimum interval if you care about your hair but it would actually be better to wait somewhere around six or seven weeks if you’re really scared of doing any damage. If your hair is strong and you use a dye which is not too harsh then you can try to wait a little less than that and everything might still turn out fine. In most cases you can feel if your hair is OK and you can dye it sooner or if it’s damaged and needs to be fixed first.
If your hair is not that strong and prone to damage then you should definitely wait before coloring it again. Split ends and hair breakage are two of the most common and also most disturbing consequences of too frequent coloring. Everytime you dye hair you sort of rip off the outer layer of it and damage the hair shaft. If your hair is strong and you use a dye which is not too harsh then you can try to wait a little less than that and everything might still turn out fine. In most cases you can feel if your hair is OK and you can dye it sooner or if it’s damaged and needs to be fixed first.
I was always told to wait at least 3 days to wash my hair after a coloring. And no chlorine for at least 3 days. Other than that, after 24 hours, it's ok to get damp. Not soaking wet. So, if you want your hair to fully absorb the dye, then it is usually suggested to avoid washing it with a shampoo right away but after rinsing you should definitely apply the conditioner which almost always comes with the color kit.
Don't wash your hair until at least 24 hours after coloring, and if you can, wait at least 48 hours. If you style or swim regularly use a clarify shampoo once a week to get rid of any build up. Add a spoonful of vinegar to a glass of water and rinse through your hair after washing. 
The general rule is to wait four to eight weeks before coloring your hair again but as we just learned it’s not always necessary. If your hair is strong and you use a dye which is not too harsh then you can try to wait a little less than that and everything might still turn out fine. In most cases you can feel if your hair is OK and you can dye it sooner or if it’s damaged and needs to be fixed first.
After you receive your color service wait at least 24 hours before shampooing your hair, 48 hours is even better. Try and limit your washing to 3 times a week, especially if you have a more intense color like, red. 6. May 3, 2015 at 2:02 pm. I just attempted to dye my hair blonde from a darker brown the day before yesterday and it came out a natural looking orange-red. I was wondering how long I need to wait before I dye it again to get the blonde hair I was trying for.
Wonted to no how long do i have to wait to get my hair died again after the first time it didnt wk i came here to empire i think a mth in a half ago. Reply. says: September 28, 2014 at 6:46 am. So I just bleach the under layer of my hair and I am really upset of the results and the top layer is black.. Standard time in between appointments is 4-6 weeks, since your hair grows on average ½” a month. Of course you can stretch this out to 6-8 weeks if you don’t mind the roots.
Coloring Hair Again Q: I want to know how long I need to wait before coloring my hair again. I had it done, and it is the wrong color. 