1 The serous pericardium consists of two layers: a parietal pericardium and a visceral pericardium. 2  The parietal pericardium is fused to the internal surface of the fibrous pericardium and is so closely adherent to it that they are difficult to separate. 1 The pericardium consists of two parts : (1) a strong external layer composed of tough fibrous tissue, called the fibrous pericardium, and (2) an internal double-layered sac composed of a transparent membrane called the serous
In between the parietal and visceral pericardial layers there is a potential space called the pericardial cavity, which contains a supply of lubricating serous fluid known as the pericardial fluid. When the visceral layer comes into contact with heart (not the great vessels) it is known as the epicardium. The serous pericardium, in turn, is divided into two layers, the parietal pericardium, which is fused to and inseparable from the fibrous pericardium, and the visceral pericardium, which is part of the epicardium. Both of these layers function in lubricating the heart to prevent friction during heart activity.
The pericardium is a tough double layered fibroserous sac which covers the heart. The space between the two layers of serous pericardium (see below), the pericardial cavity, is filled with serous fluid which protects the heart from any kind of external jerk or shock. The serous pericardium, in turn, is divided into two layers, the parietal pericardium, which is fused to and inseparable from the fibrous pericardium, and the visceral pericardium, which is part of the epicardium. Both of these layers function in lubricating the heart to prevent friction during heart activity.
serous pericardium. the inner, serous portion of pericardium, consisting of two layers, visceral and parietal; the space between the layers is the pericardial cavity. visceral pericardium. the inner layer of the serous pericardium, which is intimately attached to the heart and roots of the great vessels. parietal pericardium the parietal layer of the serous pericardium, which is in contact with the fibrous pericardium. serous pericardium the inner, serous portion of pericardium, consisting of two layers, visceral and parietal; the space between the layers is the pericardial cavity. visceral pericardium the inner layer of the serous pericardium, which is in contact with the heart and roots of the great vessels. Called also epicardium
serous pericardium the inner, serous portion of pericardium, consisting of two layers, visceral and parietal; the space between the layers is the pericardial cavity. visceral pericardium the inner layer of the serous pericardium, which is in contact with the heart and roots of the great vessels. Called also epicardium. serous pericardium. the inner, serous portion of pericardium, consisting of two layers, visceral and parietal; the space between the layers is the pericardial cavity. visceral pericardium. the inner layer of the serous pericardium, which is intimately attached to the heart and roots of the great vessels.
The serous layer is divided into two sub-layers: the parietal layer, which is immediately inside the fibrous layer, and the visceral layer, which is directly next to the heart. There is about 1.2 ounces (35 ml) of fluid in the space between the visceral and parietal layers, which is called the pericardial cavity. The pericardium is a protective sac around the heart and the roots of the major veins and arteries leading to it. It consists of two primary layers, one of which is broken down into two sub-layers. Its main purpose is to hold and lubricate the heart, and make sure that it doesn't expand too much.
The pericardium (from the Greek περί, around and κάρδιον, heart) is a double-walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels. The pericardial sac has two layers, a serous layer and a fibrous layer. It encloses the pericardial cavity which contains pericardial fluid. The pericardium fixes the heart to the mediastinum, gives protection against infection, and provides the lubrication for the heart. The serous pericardium, in turn, is divided into two layers, the parietal pericardium, which is fused to and inseparable from the fibrous pericardium, and the visceral pericardium, which is part of the epicardium. Both of these layers function in lubricating the heart to prevent friction during heart activity.
1 The potential space between the parietal and visceral layers of the serous pericardium is called the pericardial cavity. 2  It normally contains a thin film of serous fluid that enables the heart to move and beat in a frictionless environment. 1 The pericardium consists of two parts : (1) a strong external layer composed of tough fibrous tissue, called the fibrous pericardium, and (2) an internal double-layered sac composed of a transparent membrane called the serous pericardium.