Generally speaking, you should be able to eat 50-100 grams per day of carbohydrates and lose weight. Maybe 100 on workout days and 50 on non workout days. Keep your carbs around your workout and have protein/fat meals the rest of the day. Hey. Now, i read A LOT about low carb diet. 
There is no simple answer to this question – in fact, the amount of carbs you need to lose fat is likely going to be different than the amount of carbs your coworker, training partner, best friend or whomever, needs to lose fat. In addition, the amount of protein and fat in your diet will also influence the amount of carbs you should be eating per day. Use these are starting points and adjust based on your response: 1  Sedentary individuals with insulin resistance: 50-150 grams per day.
The only way to know for sure the proper amount of carbs you should eat to lose fat is to experiment and find what works best for you. Still, there are some general rules and guidelines that can at least give you a starting point from which to work. In addition, the amount of protein and fat in your diet will also influence the amount of carbs you should be eating per day. Use these are starting points and adjust based on your response: 1  Sedentary individuals with insulin resistance: 50-150 grams per day.
For example, you’d need to eat 22 to 39 grams of fat when consuming a 1,000-calorie diet, 27 to 47 grams when following a 1,200-calorie meal plan, 31 to 54 grams when consuming 1,400 calories and 36 to 62 grams of fat each day when consuming a 1,600-calorie weight loss diet. Fat Recommendations. To calculate the grams of fat you should eat each day to facilitate weight loss while staying healthy, take 20 and 35 percent of your total calorie needs—as recommended by the Institute of Medicine-- and divide by nine, since fat provides nine calories per gram.
A: While eating fewer carbs is essential for optimal weight loss, you don’t need to completely eliminate carbs from your diet. The amount of carbs that you should be eating is based to two things: 1) How much weight you need to lose and 2) Where on your body you need to lose the weight. When people talk about cutting carbs or eating a low-carbohydrate diet, the Atkins Diet or a ketogenic diet approach often come to mind (which conjures up images of bacon, grease, and spoonfuls of peanut butter straight from the jar—not the epitome of good health).
A Weight Watchers® answered. Regardless of whether you're trying to lose weight or not, you should eat between 45%-65% of your daily calories from carbohydrates. It's a common misconception that carbs are the enemy. Diets that restrict any major food group, like carbs, won't result in long-term weight loss success. When talking about carbs I mean starchy breads, cereals, etc. also starchy vegetables like potatoes, rice, and sweets and alcohol. Fruits should be limited to three servings a day and are not part of the 90 grams from other carbs.
Percent of Calories. The number of fat grams you should eat to lose weight depends on your total calorie intake during your weight loss program. According to the Institute of Medicine, consuming between 20 and 35 percent of your total calories from fat is a healthy amount. Fat Recommendations. To calculate the grams of fat you should eat each day to facilitate weight loss while staying healthy, take 20 and 35 percent of your total calorie needs—as recommended by the Institute of Medicine-- and divide by nine, since fat provides nine calories per gram.