The age at which you must begin taking withdrawals from your individual retirement arrangement depends on the type of IRA. The answer differs if you hold the tax-deferred traditional IRA or the tax-free Roth IRA. In both cases, the minimum age from which you can take distributions without penalty is 59 1/2. If someone leaves you an IRA, the rules are more complicated and depend on the decedent's age. If you do take money out, it can be done at any time and in any amount once you pass the age of 59 1/2 and the account has been open at least five years. If you keep working past the age of 70 1/2, you can continue to contribute to your Roth IRA.
Ultimate guide to retirement. If you have a traditional IRA, you must take required minimum distributions starting in the year you turn 70 ½. The amount of the distribution depends on how much you have saved in the account and on your life expectancy, according to tables published by the IRS. 
You do not have to take any money out of a Roth IRA. Once a Roth account is five years old and you are 59 1/2, Roth withdrawals are not taxable, so there is no reason for the IRS to require distributions. If it’s a traditional IRA, you must start withdrawing a required minimum amount each year starting the year you reach age 70 1/2. Required minimum distributions are also mandatory for Simplified Employee Pension IRAs and Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employee IRAs.
You don't ever have to take money out of your account. If you do take money out, it can be done at any time and in any amount once you pass the age of 59 1/2 and the account has been open at least five years. If you keep working past the age of 70 1/2, you can continue to contribute to your Roth IRA.
Ultimate guide to retirement. While you can begin making qualified withdrawals from a traditional IRA at age 59½, you must start taking withdrawals that are known as required minimum distributions starting in the year you turn 70 ½. The amount of the distribution depends on how much you have saved in the account and your life expectancy, according to tables published by the IRS. That's a major difference between a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA. If you own a Roth, you can leave the money in for as long as you want
1 Under a Roth, earnings withdrawals are tax free if you are over 59 ½, and have been in a Roth for more than 5 years. 2  Under a Traditional, all your earnings distributions are considered Ordinary Income for tax purposes both over and under age 59 1/2. 3  Then you need to picture your retirement years. 1 Under all IRA’s, the earnings withdrawals before age 59 ½ are taxed as ordinary income and may get hit with a 10% penalty. 2 
If you do, the required minimum distributions must begin when you reach age 70 1/2. If you choose to remain a beneficiary of the IRA, required minimum distributions start when the deceased would have been 70 1/2. If you inherit an IRA from anyone other than a spouse, you have two options. If it’s a traditional IRA, you must start withdrawing a required minimum amount each year starting the year you reach age 70 1/2. Required minimum distributions are also mandatory for Simplified Employee Pension IRAs and Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employee IRAs.
1 Minimum age you must be to begin taking qualified distributions: 59 and 1/2. 2  Maximum age where you must begin to take qualified distributions: Never! 3  You are not forced to take distributions at age 70 1/2. 4  You can keep the money in your Roth IRA as long as you want. Below I've broken out the three major retirement accounts with both what age you have to be to begin taking distributions, and what age you must begin taking distributions. Traditional IRA: 1 
Traditional IRAs. When you begin making withdrawals on your traditional IRA, the amount is taxed as regular income. These contributions were made with pretax dollars, and taxes were deferred on the earnings over the years. You must begin taking distributions from your traditional IRA by the time you reach 70 1/2. If you do take money out, it can be done at any time and in any amount once you pass the age of 59 1/2 and the account has been open at least five years. If you keep working past the age of 70 1/2, you can continue to contribute to your Roth IRA.