Job Description. Speech pathologists, officially called speech-language pathologists and sometimes called speech therapists, work with people who have a variety of speech-related disorders. These disorders can include the inability to produce certain sounds, speech rhythm and fluency problems, and voice
Speech-language pathologists must be able to listen to and communicate with their patient in order to determine the right course of treatment. Speech-language pathologists (sometimes called speech therapists) assess, diagnose, treat, and help to prevent communication and swallowing disorders in patients.
Speech-language pathology is the study and treatment of human communication and its disorders. Speech-language pathologists work with the full range of human communication and its disorders to: 1  Treat speech, language and swallowing disorders in individuals of all ages from infants to the elderly.
Speech-language pathology is a field of expertise practiced by a clinician known as a Speech-language pathologist (SLP), also called speech and language therapist, or speech therapist, who specializes in the evaluation and treatment of communication disorders and swallowing disorders.
speech pathology (speech-language pathology) a field of the health sciences dealing with the evaluation of speech, language, and voice disorders and the rehabilitation of patients with such disorders not amenable to medical or surgical treatment. See also speech-language pathologist.
About Speech-Language Pathology. Speech-language pathologists (SLPs) work to prevent, assess, diagnose, and treat speech, language, social communication, cognitive-communication, and swallowing disorders in children and adults.
Overview. Speech-language pathology is the study and treatment of human communication and its disorders. Speech-language pathologists work with the full range of human communication and its disorders to: 1  Treat speech, language and swallowing disorders in individuals of all ages from infants to the elderly.