Adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine, (G), and thymine (T) are the four bases in DNA. The order of bases is the sequence of DNA. Two bases bonded together and attached to one of the strands in the DNA double helix. Adenine always pairs with thymine, and guanine always pairs with cytosine. Adenine, Cytosine, Guanine and Thyamine are the four bases which make up (different strands of) DNA. These bases undergo a pairing between them i.e. A & T G & C. by da way there are 3 types of DNAs.
DNA's four bases are adenine (A), guanine (G), thymine (T), and cytosine (C). Adenine and guanine are complementary, as are thymine and cytosine. RNA is practically the same, … except that thymine is replaced with uracil (U) - meaning that when RNA replicates DNA, any thymine needed is replaced with uracil. Uracil is still compatible with cytosine, though.
Apart from adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), thymine (T) and uracil (U), DNA and RNA also contain bases that have been modified after the nucleic acid chain has been formed. In DNA, the most common modified base is 5-methylcytosine (m 5 C). 
The larger bases adenine and guanine are purines which differ in the kinds of atoms that are attached to their double ring. The other bases cytosine, uracil, and thymine are pyrimidines which differ in the atoms attached to their single ring. A set of five nitrogenous bases is used in the construction of nucleotides, which in turn build up the nucleic acids like DNA and RNA.
The four bases that make up RNA are:   * Adenine (A)  * Cytosine (C)  * Guanine (G)  * Uracil (U). Adenine and guanine are complementary, as are thymine and cytosine. RNA is practically the same, … except that thymine is replaced with uracil (U) - meaning that when RNA replicates DNA, any thymine needed is replaced with uracil. Uracil is still compatible with cytosine, though.
RNA has nitrogen bases guanine, cytosine, adenine, and uracil DNA has thymine instead of uracil. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Five Day Trips from Paris The city of Paris is one of France's and Europe's most popular travel destinations. DNA (Deoxy ribo-nucleic acid) is made up of structures known as nucleotides, there are four nucleotides from which all the DNA coding has been written, which are as foll … ow: adenine (a purine) cytosine (a pyrimidine) guanine (a purine) thymine (a pyrimidine).
Nucleic acids Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleic acids found in the nuclei of living cells. They are the vehicles of genetic inheritance. Nucleic acids are condensation polymers of nucleotides. 
The molecular unit from which DNA and RNA are made. In DNA, a nucleotide consists of a 'base' [adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) or thymine (T)] linked to the sugar deoxyribose and a phosphate group. Many nucleotide units joined together via their sugar-phosphate groups make up a DNA molecule. In RNA, the sugar is ribose and the base thymine is replaced by uracil (U). The sequence of a DNA or RNA molecule is usually described as the sequence of its bases, eg AAAAGTTCGTCTAGGTC
Well, other than the fact that RNA is made of ribose while DNA is made of deoxyribose, they also use slightly different nitrogenous bases. While DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine, RNA uses adenine, URACIL, guanine, and cytosine. In DNA, adenine pairs up with thymine (AT).