Postmenopause follows perimenopause and lasts the rest of your life. The average age of a woman having her last period, menopause, is 51. But, some women have their last period in their forties, and some have it later in their fifties. Smoking can lead to early menopause. So can some types of operations. Many women have hot flashes, which can last a few years after menopause. They may be related to changing estrogen levels. A hot flash is a sudden feeling of heat in the upper part or all of your body. Your face and neck become flushed.
Changes usually begin with perimenopause. This can begin several years before your last menstrual period. Changing levels of estrogen and progesterone, which are two female hormones made in your ovaries, might lead to symptoms. Menopause comes next, the end of your menstrual periods. Many women have hot flashes, which can last a few years after menopause. They may be related to changing estrogen levels. A hot flash is a sudden feeling of heat in the upper part or all of your body. Your face and neck become flushed.
Symptoms of menopause can begin anytime between age 45 and 47, a time when the menopause transition, or perimenopause phase, normally takes place, explains Felicia Mendelsohn, MD, a women's health scholar at Columbia University's Center for Menopause, Hormonal Disorders, and Women's Health in New York. 
The average age of menopause is 51 years old. But there is no way to predict when an individual woman will have menopause or begin having symptoms suggestive of menopause. The age at which a woman starts having menstrual periods is also not related to the age of menopause onset. Most women reach menopause between the ages of 45 and 55, but menopause may occur as earlier as ages 30s or 40s, or may not occur until a woman reaches her 60s.
In conclusion, it's difficult to decide in what age does menopause start since it's is varied greatly from woman to woman. Menopause can hit as early as your 30s or as late as your 50s but most of the women can get as far as the average age of menopause (51) . Menopause is not a terrified moment. Instead, menopause can be a constructive experience. Normally, the average ages of menopause is considered to be between 50 and 51 but it can occur at any time between 30 and 60 years of age. The cycle of menopause can either be difficult or easy. For example: let's assume you haven't had a period for 6 months. Suddenly, in the 7th month it appears
Follow us. Most women go through menopause in their late 40s or early 50s, but usually menopause symptoms start during perimenopause, which typically begins 10 years before the menopausal transition. During perimenopause, symptoms start to occur, and their severity is different for every woman. When menopause symptoms start, they can be deceptive; many women may not realize that they are perimenopausal. If menopause symptoms start or you think they have started, then it's a good idea to talk to your doctor to learn more about this stage and how to deal with the sometimes bothersome symptoms.
Perimenopausal symptoms can begin as early as your 30s and last for six years or more. Most women will complete menopause between the ages of 47 and 55, with average age of 51. On occasion, a women can experience perimenopause much earlier. The symptoms can be very subtle and generally don't upset the quality of life, especially in the early years. A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Perimenopausal symptoms usually begin when a woman is in her 40s, though they can begin when she is in her 30s. Perimenopause lasts four years on average, but it can last as little as a few months or up to 8 or 10 years.
The average age of menopause in the United States is 51, but it is considered perfectly normal for a woman to go through it at any time between the ages of 35 and 59, says Lila Schmidt, MD, a reproductive endocrinologist in private practice in San Diego. “Anything above 35 is not premature,” she says. According to the National Institutes of Health, if you start your periods early (before age 12) and go through menopause late (after age 55), you have an increased risk for breast cancer.
Posted on 10/07/2010 | Comments (). Print. The average American woman enters menopause by age 51, but the hormone level shifts that trigger menopause can actually begin years, even decades earlier. Known as perimenopause, this condition can begin as early as age 35, and lasts anywhere from a few months to 10 years. Perimenopause vs. Menopause. The primary factor distinguishing perimenopause from menopause is menstruation. 