Lattice Degeneration. Lattice degeneration refers to thinning of the peripheral retina and is seen in approximately 10% of the population. It is often, but not always, seen in patients with myopia (nearsightedness). The term “lattice degeneration” comes from the white crisscrossing lines which are the classic appearance of lattice lesions
Lattice Degeneration. Lattice degeneration is a common peripheral retinal degeneration, with oval or linear patches of retinal thinning. Lattice degeneration affects about 10% of the population and is bilateral in 30 to 50% of those patients. It may run in families and it is more common in near-sighted eyes. Patients with lattice degeneration are typically asymptomatic, and the lesions are usually an incidental finding of dilated eye exam.
Lattice degeneration. Lattice degeneration is a thinning of the peripheral retina. This condition does not interfere with central vision or cause any symptoms, so it is often undetected unless a patient undergoes a thorough peripheral retinal exam. Lattice degeneration occurs in about 7% to 8% of the general population, and of those affected, about 45% have lattice degeneration in both eyes. This condition is often inherited and is found more commonly in people who are myopic (nearsighted)
Background. Lattice degeneration is a common, atrophic disease of the peripheral retina characterized by oval or linear patches of retinal thinning. The prevalence peaks by the second decade and is believed to be minimally progressive but may be uncommonly complicated by retinal detachment. Next. Lattice degeneration affects approximately 10% of the population and is bilateral in 30-50% of patients who are affected. A variable familial risk may be present on the basis of various autosomal dominant pedigrees.
Lattice degeneration is a disease which affects the retina of the eye, causing the retina to atrophy and become thinner. In the United States, approximately 10% of the population suffers from lattice degeneration. Those who are nearsighted -- a condition also known as myopia -- can see nearby objects but things that are far away appear blurry. Lattice degeneration affects the retina of the eye.
Lattice degeneration is a peripheral retina condition in which the retinal tissue is thinned and the blood vessels are fibrosed in a “lattice-like” appearance. Lattice degeneration lesions, usually localized, appear as round/oval or linear patches in the far peripheral retina. The typical lattice degeneration patient is over 25 years of age and may be myopic (nearsighted). It is typically found in both eyes. It is estimated that 8 to 11 percent of the population has peripheral retinal changes that are categorized as lattice degeneration.
Lattice degeneration, also called “lattice” for short, is a common form of degenerative change seen the peripheral retina that is found in 6-8% of the general population. Approximately 50% of patients with lattice degeneration in one eye will have lattice degeneration in their other eye. Even though retinal detachment is very rare (1 in 10,000), lattice degeneration is a risk factor for retinal detachment and approximately 30% of spontaneous retinal detachments that occur in eyes without previous surgery are associated with lattice degeneration.
Lattice Degeneration. Lattice degeneration is present in about 8% of the general population and occurs in about 40% of eyes with a retinal detachment. It is also known as milkyway-like or galaxy bands, retinal erosion, and vitreous base excavation.