The average salary for daily money manager jobs is $73,000. Average daily money manager salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term daily money manager anywhere in the job listing.
Daily money managers (DMMs) provide personal business assistance to clients who have difficulty in managing their personal monetary affairs. The services meet a continuum of needs, from organizing and keeping track of financial and medical insurance papers, to assisting with check writing and maintaining bank accounts. 
Barbara Green, CPA, had begun a career as a daily money manager in fall 2010 after 25 years in public practice and 5½ years with the U.S. Department of Defense’s Office of Inspector General. She now does financial and other work for people who can’t or won’t do such tasks themselves. WHAT DAILY MONEY MANAGERS DO Jackie Bell, CPA, worked in corporate finance for most of the first 27 years of her career. She started doing DMM in 2005 after hearing about the concept in a radio commercial. She now provides DMM and tax services in the Rochester, N.Y., area
The American Association of Daily Money Managers hopes to lead the emergence of this industry in a positive manner, and we would be happy to answer any additional questions you may have about this field. 174 Crestview Drive. Daily money managers (DMMs) provide personal business assistance to clients who have difficulty in managing their personal monetary affairs. The services meet a continuum of needs, from organizing and keeping track of financial and medical insurance papers, to assisting with check writing and maintaining bank accounts.
How to Start a Daily Money Manager's Business. Money managers work to build wealth for their clients. Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images. A daily money manager is a financial professional who manages the day-to-day financial affairs of a range of clients. Typical services performed by daily money managers include balancing checkbooks, handling bill payments, filing tax forms and other personal financial responsibilities. Starting a daily money manager's business can provide profitable opportunities to serve clients in this growing industry. Step 1. Obtain a degree or equivalent experience in the fields of accounting or personal finance.
Daily money management (DMM) programs help people who cannot handle their own financial affairs. Essentially, a daily money manager acts as a personal financial assistant. According to a survey conducted by the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), the kinds of services that DMMs provide most often are: Although DMMs can be lifesavers, they also come with significant risks. To avoid problems, you should first understand what a daily money manager can and cannot do, how the various DMM programs differ, and how to choose a DMM.
In general, you do need to pay for this service. Daily money managers can cost between $30 to $100 an hour. However, you may be able to get a free consultation to determine if money management is right for you. And in some states, the AARP offers daily money management services to low-income elderly individuals. Click here to find out more about the AARP's program. A daily money manager is an individual experienced in dealing with mundane financial matters that can build up if they aren't taken care of. Money managers can aid seniors with physical limitations like arthritis or who are having difficulty keeping track of their affairs.
The profession of daily money manager (DMM) has been in existence for about 15 years according to The American Association of Daily Money Managers (ADMM). DMMs help their clients to deal with personal financial matters such as: If my client had access to a daily money manager, this and other vital functions could have been accomplished seamlessly. Others who can benefit from the services of a DMM include: 1  People who are constantly on the road for work or pleasure.