The town lies north of Venice, between Eraclea and Cavallino-Treporti. Jesolo gives its name to a lagoon of 22 square kilometres (8.5 sq mi) on the Adriatic Sea between the rivers Sile and Piave. The urbanized area lies on an island of sorts, delimited by the rivers Piave (on the east) and Sile (on the west), and an artificial canal called Cavetta. Jesolo is a famous seaside resort thanks to its abundant holiday facilities and its 15-kilometre (9 mi) beach called Lido di Jesolo. At the height of its touristic life, Jesolo was hosting 6 million tourists per year.
Jesolo is in the Veneto region of Italy. This coastal town is very popular with foreign tourists, especially Germans and Austrians, and also with the Italians and it is one of the longest beaches in Italy, stretching over 13 km. It has a wide range of hotels, shops and attractions next to the beach. The origin of Jesolo dates back at the time of the fall of the Roman Empire, when barbarian tribes such as the Huns invaded Italy from north-east, forcing the population to move towards the swamp area near the sea. Most of the original inhabitants came from the Roman town of Opitergium (today’s Oderzo).
The 2015 City of Jesolo Trophy (Italian: Trofeo Citta Jesolo 2015) was the eighth edition of the City of Jesolo Trophy competition and was held March 25-29, 2015 at the SGA Gymnasium Treviso in Jesolo, Italy Teams from Italy, the USA, Canada, Australia and France competed at the event. Contents. 
Jesolo is divided into two main parts: one is Jesolo Centro (known by locals as Jesolo “Paese”) which is only 3 km from the sea and lies on the banks of the River Sile and the Cavetta canal. Here you can find the City Hall, on the right side of the Sile. The origin of Jesolo dates back at the time of the fall of the Roman Empire, when barbarian tribes such as the Huns invaded Italy from north-east, forcing the population to move towards the swamp area near the sea. Most of the original inhabitants came from the Roman town of Opitergium (today’s Oderzo).
Jesolo (or Iesolo) [ˈjɛːzolo] is a town and comune in the province of Venice, Italy. Jesolo is a famous seaside resort thanks to its abundant holiday facilities and its 15-kilometre (9 mi) beach called Lido di Jesolo. At the height of its touristic life, Jesolo was hosting 6 million tourists per year.
Finding the Best Jesolo Hotels With Venere. Enjoy all of the delights of a leading beach resort and be within a few miles of the beautiful city of Venice by staying in the Italian town of Jesolo with Venere. Jesolo is also famous for its sporting events, so be in the town in March to enjoy world class gymnastic performances at the Jesolo Trophy. The locals are proud of Veneto's great culinary heritage as well.
The city's economy is mostly based on tourism. Jesolo is a famous seaside resort thanks to its abundant holiday facilities and its 15-kilometre (9 mi) beach called Lido di Jesolo. At the height of its touristic life, Jesolo was hosting 6 million tourists per year.
Hotel Jesolo. One city, so many cities. That's Jesolo in Italy, one and many cities at the same time. Built to meet our own needs but also those of our neighbours, which are very different from ours. Jesolo is the word when it comes to having the perfect holiday you want. Whether in a hotel, apartment, villa or bungalow, campsite close to the sea, in a pine tree forest or in the centre of Jesolo Lido, we have the best suited accommodation at a price which will also suit you, all without sacrificing the top quality we are famous for.
Check-in Check-out. Nestled on the beach, this Lido di Jesolo hotel is within 1 mi (2 km) of Piazza Mazzini and Sea Life Jesolo. 