Osmolarity is sensed in the hypothalamus by neurons known as an osmoreceptors, and those neurons, in turn, stimulate secretion from the neurons that produce antidiuretic hormone. When plasma osmolarity is below a certain threshold, the osmoreceptors are not activated and secretio of antidiuretic hormone is suppressed. Effects on the Kidney. The single most important effect of antidiuretic hormone is to conserve body water by reducing the loss of water in urine. A diuretic is an agent that increases the rate of urine formation.
Best Answer: C. stimulates retention of water by the kidneys The single most important effect of antidiuretic hormone is to conserve body water by reducing the loss of water in urine. A diuretic is an agent that increases the rate of urine formation. 
Vasopressin is a peptide hormone that increases water permeability of the kidney's collecting duct and distal convoluted tubule by inducing translocation of aquaporin-CD water channels in the plasma membrane of collecting duct cells. Vasopressin regulates the body's retention of water by acting to increase water reabsorption in the kidney's collecting ducts, the tubules which receive the very dilute urine produced by the functional unit of the kidney, the nephrons.
Antidiuretic hormone binds to receptors on cells in the collecting ducts of the kidney and promotes reabsorption of water back into the circulation. In the absence of antidiuretic hormone, the collecting ducts are virtually impermeable to water, and it flows out as urine. Antidiuretic hormone stimulates water reabsorbtion by stimulating insertion of water channels or aquaporins into the membranes of kidney tubules. A diuretic is an agent that increases the rate of urine formation. Injection of small amounts of antidiuretic hormone into a person or animal results in antidiuresis or decreased formation of urine, and the hormone was named for this effect.
Lesson Summary. ADH is antidiuretic hormone and is also called vasopressin. It's responsible for regulating the amount of water in the blood, and is released from the pituitary gland based on signals from the hypothalamus, which detects the water levels in the blood. 
Best Answer: The single most important effect of antidiuretic hormone is to conserve body water by reducing the loss of water in urine. A diuretic is an agent that increases the rate of urine formation. Injection of small amounts of antidiuretic hormone into a person or animal results in antidiuresis or decreased formation of urine, and the hormone was named for this effect.
Antidiuretic hormone stimulates water reabsorbtion by stimulating insertion of water channels or aquaporins into the membranes of kidney tubules. These channels transport solute-free water through tubular cells and back into blood, leading to a decrease in plasma osmolarity and an increase osmolarity of urine. Effects on the Kidney. The single most important effect of antidiuretic hormone is to conserve body water by reducing the loss of water in urine. A diuretic is an agent that increases the rate of urine formation.
The ADH test measures how much antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is in the blood. ADH is a hormone that helps your kidneys manage the amount of water in your body. The test is seldom used alone, but is often combined with other tests to find out what is causing too much or too little of this hormone to be present in the blood.
Vasopressin, also known as arginine vasopressin (AVP), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), or argipressin, is a neurohypophysial hormone found in most mammals. Its two primary functions are to retain water in the body and to constrict blood vessels. Vasopressin regulates the body's retention of water by acting to increase water reabsorption in the kidney's collecting ducts, the tubules which receive the very dilute urine produced by the functional unit of the kidney, the nephrons.
ADH is also called arginine vasopressin. It is a water-regulating hormone made by the hypothalamus (in the brain), and stored in the posterior pituitary gland. ADH is the chemical that tells the kidneys how much water to conserve. ADH constantly regulates and balances the amount of water in the blood. Higher water concentration increases the volume and pressure of the blood. Osmotic sensors and baroreceptors work in tandem with ADH to maintain water metabolism. ADH is a hormone that helps your kidneys manage the amount of water in your body. The test is seldom used alone, but is often combined with other tests to find out what is causing too much or too little of this hormone to be present