pseudo-. a combining form meaning “false,” “pretended,” “unreal” (pseudoclassic; pseudointellectual), “closely or deceptively resembling” (pseudocarp). (= pretended) → unecht; affection, simplicity → aufgesetzt; pseudo revolutionary/intellectual → Pseudorevolutionaer(pseudorevolutionär) in(m) → /-f(intellektuelle) r. mf = n Pseud. [n] ˈsjuːdəʊ (adj) → fam/fasullo, a/finto. a
pseu•do. a combining form meaning “false,” “pretended,” “unreal,” used in the formation of compound words (pseudoclassic; pseudointellectual): in scientific use, denoting close or deceptive resemblance to the following element (pseudobulb; pseudocarp), and used sometimes in chemical names of isomers (pseudoephedrine). 
Pseudocode is an informal high-level description of the operating principle of a computer program or other algorithm. It uses the structural conventions of a programming language, but is intended for human reading rather than machine reading. 
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Joncey. Confidence votes 57.9K. Pseudo-means not genuine, fake, bogus (incomplete) Note also the colloquial word a pseud, as in John Doe is a pseud. This means that John Doe is not what he claims or pretends to be. 
pseudo-. adjective false, pretended, artificial, fake, phoney or phony (informal), mock, imitation, bogus, sham, counterfeit, spurious, ersatz, not genuine, quasi-What a load of pompous, pseudo-intellectual rubbish! pseudo-. combining form. 1. false, pretending, or unauthentic: pseudo-intellectual. 2. having a close resemblance to: pseudopodium.
pseudo- (psi). Definitions: 1. False (often used about a deceptive resemblance). The definition information for pseudo-is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
1. pseudo - (often used in combination) not genuine but having the appearance of; a pseudo esthete; pseudoclassic. combining form-a bound form used only in compounds; `hemato-' is a combining form in words like `hematology'. (= pretended) → unecht; affection, simplicity → aufgesetzt; pseudo revolutionary/intellectual → Pseudorevolutionaer(pseudorevolutionär) in(m) → /-f(intellektuelle) r. mf = n Pseud. [n] ˈsjuːdəʊ (adj) → fam/fasullo, a/finto. a
Examples of PSEUDO. 1  pseudo. 2  Here at the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum, you have your heads of state, your foreign ministers, your titans of business, your intellectuals (pseudo and real)—but you also have Sharon Stone, Angelina Jolie, and Richard Gere. 
adjective. prefix. The definition of pseudo is someone or something fake, false or pretend. An example of pseudo used as an adjective is the phrase pseudo date, a girl taking her cousin to the prom to pose as her date. Pseudo is defined as similar to, or not real. An example of pseudo used as a prefix is in the word pseudonym which means a false name, often one that is used by a writer to conceal his true identity. 