1 Alcoholic liver disease is a hepatic manifestation of alcohol overconsumption, including fatty liver disease, alcoholic hepatitis, and cirrhosis. 2  Analogous terms such as drug-induced or toxic liver disease are also used to refer to disorders caused by various drugs. 1 Cirrhosis is the formation of fibrous tissue (fibrosis) in the place of liver cells that have died due to a variety of causes, including viral hepatitis, alcohol overconsumption, and other forms of liver toxicity.
Cirrhosis is often considered to be a form of liver disease and may be the only liver-related condition that many people have heard of. In fact, cirrhosis is a condition that results from permanent damage or scarring of the liver. It is the end stage of many different forms of liver disease and is known to cause a number of other health problems, including variceal bleeding, ascites and hepatic encephalopathy.
Classic symptoms of liver disease include: 1  nausea, 2  vomiting, 3  right upper quadrant abdominal pain, and. 4  jaundice (a yellow discoloration of the skin due to elevated bilirubin concentrations in the bloodstream). Liver disease is a broad term that covers all the potential problems that cause the liver to fail to perform its designated functions. Usually, more than 75% or three quarters of liver tissue needs to be affected before a decrease in function occurs.
Signs and symptoms of liver disease include: 1  Skin and eyes that appear yellowish (jaundice). 2  Abdominal pain and swelling. 3  Swelling in the legs and ankles. 4  Itchy skin. 5  Dark urine color. 6  Pale stool color, or bloody or tar-colored stool. 7  Chronic fatigue. 8  Nausea or vomiting. 9  Loss of appetite. 10  Tendency to bruise easily. 
Liver Disease. Although liver disease is stereotypically linked to alcohol or drugs, the truth is that there are over 100 known forms of liver disease caused by a variety of factors and affecting everyone from infants to older adults. In fact, cirrhosis is a condition that results from permanent damage or scarring of the liver. It is the end stage of many different forms of liver disease and is known to cause a number of other health problems, including variceal bleeding, ascites and hepatic encephalopathy.
1 non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, 2  iron overload (hemochromatosis), 3  Symptoms of liver diseases include. 4  weakness and fatigue, 5  weight loss, 6  nausea, 7  vomiting, and. 8  yellow discoloration of the skin (jaundice). 1 Symptoms of liver diseases include. 2  weakness and fatigue, 3  weight loss, 4  nausea, 5  vomiting, and. 6  yellow discoloration of the skin (jaundice). 7  The treatment of a particular liver disease depends on its specific cause.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a term used to describe the accumulation of fat in the liver of people who drink little or no alcohol. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is common and, for most people, causes no signs and symptoms and no complications. But in some people with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the fat that accumulates can cause inflammation and scarring in the liver. 
Liver disease (also called hepatic disease) is a type of damage to or disease of the liver. 1 Cirrhosis is the formation of fibrous tissue (fibrosis) in the place of liver cells that have died due to a variety of causes, including viral hepatitis, alcohol overconsumption, and other forms of liver toxicity.
Liver disease is any disturbance of liver function that causes illness. The liver is responsible for many critical functions within the body and should it become diseased or injured, the loss of those functions can cause significant damage to the body. Liver disease is a broad term that covers all the potential problems that cause the liver to fail to perform its designated functions. Usually, more than 75% or three quarters of liver tissue needs to be affected before a decrease in function occurs.
1 Epstein Barr virus (infectious mononucleosis), 2  non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, 3  iron overload (hemochromatosis), 4  Symptoms of liver diseases include. 5  weakness and fatigue, 6  weight loss, 7  nausea, 8  vomiting, and. 9  yellow discoloration of the skin (jaundice). 1 Symptoms of liver diseases include. 2  weakness and fatigue, 3  weight loss, 4  nausea, 5  vomiting, and. 6  yellow discoloration of the skin (jaundice). 7  The treatment of a particular liver disease depends on its specific cause.