A SIP trunk is a direct connection between your organization and an ITSP. It enables you to extend VoIP telephony beyond your organization’s firewall without the need for an IP-PSTN gateway. A SIP trunk can connect your organization to an ITSP through either an IP-PBX or a Mediation Server. A Mediation Server performs encrypting, decrypting, and data translation between an Office Communications Server deployment on one side and the world beyond on the other.
SecurActive Performance Vision. A trunk is a line or link designed to handle many signal s simultaneously, and that connects major switching centers or node s in a communications system. The transmitted data can be voice (as in the conventional telephone system) data, computer programs, images, video or control signals. Such a port is called a trunk port, in contrast to an access port, which carries traffic only to and from the specific VLAN assigned to it. A trunk port marks frames with special identifying tags (either ISL tags or 802.1Q tags) as they pass between switches, so each frame can be routed to its intended VLAN.
A SIP trunk is a direct connection between your organization and an Internet telephony service provider (ITSP). It enables you to extend voice over IP (VoIP) telephony beyond your organization’s firewall without the need for an IP-PSTN gateway. A SIP trunk can connect your organization to an ITSP through either an IP-PBX or a Mediation Server. A Mediation Server performs encrypting, decrypting, and data translation between an Office Communications Server deployment on one side and the world beyond on the other.
Determining which Type of Connection to Use for your SIP Trunk. A SIP trunk can be deployed over the Internet or over a line that is dedicated to your organization and that may or may not share bandwidth with other IP traffic. A SIP trunk can connect your organization to an ITSP through either an IP-PBX or a Mediation Server. A Mediation Server performs encrypting, decrypting, and data translation between an Office Communications Server deployment on one side and the world beyond on the other.
In two-way radio communications, trunking refers to the ability of transmissions to be served by free channels whose availability is determined by algorithmic protocols. In the context of Ethernet VLANs, Avaya and Cisco use the term Ethernet trunking to mean carrying multiple VLANs through a single network link through the use of a trunking protocol. To allow for multiple VLANs on one link, frames from individual VLANs must be identified.
vs. Avaya Aura. A VoIP trunk gateway is an interface that facilitates the use of plain old telephone service (POTS) equipment, such as conventional phone sets and fax machines, with a voice over IP (VoIP) network. Download this buyer’s guide to discover what to look for in cloud-based UC solutions. Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) trunking is the use of voice over IP (VoIP) to facilitate the connection of a private branch ... See complete definition. VoIP: Glossary. This handy glossary will assist you with terminology related specifically to voice over IP.
In telecommunications, trunking is a method for a system to provide network access to many clients by sharing a set of lines or frequencies instead of providing them individually. This is analogous to the structure of a tree with one trunk and many branches. In the context of Ethernet VLANs, Avaya and Cisco use the term Ethernet trunking to mean carrying multiple VLANs through a single network link through the use of a trunking protocol. To allow for multiple VLANs on one link, frames from individual VLANs must be identified.
A trunk can also be a broadband wireless link. The use and management of trunks in a communications system is known as trunking. It minimizes the number of physical signal paths, and thus the total amount of cable hardware, required to serve a given number of subscribers in a network. Such a port is called a trunk port, in contrast to an access port, which carries traffic only to and from the specific VLAN assigned to it. A trunk port marks frames with special identifying tags (either ISL tags or 802.1Q tags) as they pass between switches, so each frame can be routed to its intended VLAN.