The Burra Burra Mine is located near the center of the Copper (or Ducktown) Basin, a broad valley in the southern Appalachian Mountains near the common borders of Tennessee, North Carolina, and Georgia. In 1899, the Tennessee Copper Company, which had bought most of the mining operations in the Copper Basin, constructed a smelter at Copperhill and began work on the Burra Burra Mine at Ducktown.
Five large mines operated in the Jellico coal field, which stretched from Kentucky into the Tennessee counties of Campbell, Anderson, and Scott. Other important mining areas were in Claiborne, Morgan, Hamilton, and Marion Counties. Fuller's earth is found in Henry, Carroll, Madison, Henderson, Chester, and Hardeman Counties. Mining and processing began in Henry County in the 1930s, and by the 1980s Tennessee fuller's earth ranked fifth in value nationally and eighth among all mineral commodities produced in the state.
During the 1880s there was a fivefold increase in coal production. Five large mines operated in the Jellico coal field, which stretched from Kentucky into the Tennessee counties of Campbell, Anderson, and Scott. Other important mining areas were in Claiborne, Morgan, Hamilton, and Marion Counties. Pit mining along surface outcrops had almost disappeared, largely replaced by underground mining in the Euchee, Rockwood-Cardiff, and Chamberlain areas of central East Tennessee and the La Follette area of northeast Tennessee.
Ducktown, the location of the Burra Burra Mine, is in the center of the Copper Basin near the juncture of Tennessee State Route 68 and U.S. Route 64. In 1899, the Tennessee Copper Company, which had bought most of the mining operations in the Copper Basin, constructed a smelter at Copperhill and began work on the Burra Burra Mine at Ducktown.
By the end of 1853 eleven mines were operating in Tennessee. By 1864 there were fourteen mines. The 1870 U.S. Census ranked Tennessee third nationally in value of copper production. More than 30 mining companies were incorporated between 1852 and 1855 to mine copper at Ducktown. Pit mining along surface outcrops had almost disappeared, largely replaced by underground mining in the Euchee, Rockwood-Cardiff, and Chamberlain areas of central East Tennessee and the La Follette area of northeast
The Campo Morado mine is located in Guerrero State, Mexico. The area comprises 12,000 hectares in six mining concessions that are some 160 kilometers south-southwest of Mexico City. There are four ore bodies that have been delineated as JORC compliant resources (Reforma, El Largo, El Rey and Naranjo). Langlois mine is located in Bay James Territories, in northwest Quebec, québec approximately 50 kilometres north east of the town Of-Lebel-Sur. quevillon quévillon
The Burra Burra Mine is a copper mine located in Ducktown, Tennessee, in the southeastern United States. Named for the famous mine in Australia, the Burra Burra Mine extracted over 15 million tons (14 million metric tons) of copper ore during its 60 years of operation between 1899 and 1959. In 1899, the Tennessee Copper Company, which had bought most of the mining operations in the Copper Basin, constructed a smelter at Copperhill and began work on the Burra Burra Mine at Ducktown.
Photos By Jack Waters. Downtown Ducktown, Tennessee looking down from the Burra Burra Mine site. Ducktown & Copper Hill are located in southeast Tennessee in Polk County, near The GA/NC border. Copper was discovered there in 1843. This discovery would impact the lives of Copper Basin residents for generations. The Ducktown Basin, or Copper Basin, is located in the extreme southeast corner of Polk County, Tennessee. Three veins of copper run through the basin and each attracted several mining companies ready to exploit the resource.