The ozone layer is typically thicker over the poles than over the equator for three reasons. First, there is a lack of sunlight during an arctic winter to break it down. Second, seasonal weather systems and wind patterns in the upper atmosphere push more ozone toward the poles in winter. Most of the earth's ozone is contained in the stratosphere, a layer of the atmosphere 1040 km above the surface of the earth. The amount of ozone in the stratosphere is fairly constant when viewed globally. However, it changes throughout the year and from one place to another.
Ozone Layer Thickness. The thickness of the ozone layer varies from 10 km to 50 km (32,000 to 1164,000 ft). It is located in the stratosphere, one of the upper layers on the Earth’s atmosphere. The thickness however, does fluctuate depending on the area and the season. 
Depth and Thickness Measurements. Generally, depth and thickness of the atmosphere are measured in terms of its lowest layer, the troposphere. The troposphere extends from the Earth’s surface upward to between about 6 and 20 kilometers (4 and 12 miles). The exact extent depends on location. The troposphere is shallowest -- or narrowest -- at the poles, and deepest -- or thickest -- at the equator. At the geographic North and South Poles, the troposphere reaches only 6 kilometers (4 miles) high, while at the equator, it extends nearly 20 kilometers (12 miles) high. In order to understand where and why the atmosphere is deepest and thickest, it helps to have a basic knowledge of what exactly the term “atmosphere” entails. The gravitational pull of the Earth holds a veil of gases in close proximity; these gases are collectively known as the atmosphere.
Earth's atmosphere is about 300 miles (480 kilometers) thick, but most of it is within 10 miles (16 km) the surface. Air pressure decreases with altitude. At sea level, air pressure is about 14.7 pounds per square inch (1 kilogram per square centimeter). 
The earth's atmosphere consists of three main layers that differ in thickness and chemistry. The thickness of the innermost layer, the troposphere, decreases from the equator to the poles. The greatest amounts of ozone occur in the stratosphere. Most of the earth's ozone is contained in the stratosphere, a layer of the atmosphere 1040 km above the surface of the earth. The amount of ozone in the stratosphere is fairly constant when viewed globally. However, it changes throughout the year and from one place to another.
In general, however, the Earth’s atmosphere is deepest and thickest over the equator, although it can also be thought of as thickest anywhere closest to the sea level. In order to understand where and why the atmosphere is deepest and thickest, it helps to have a basic knowledge of what exactly the term “atmosphere” entails. The gravitational pull of the Earth holds a veil of gases in close proximity; these gases are collectively known as the atmosphere.
The troposphere. The troposphere extends from ground level to a height between 5 and 10 miles (8 and 16 kilometers) above Earth. The troposphere is thickest over the equator and thinnest over the poles. 
The ozone layer extends over the entire globe with some variation in altitude and thickness. The remaining ozone, about 10%, is found in the troposphere, which is the lowest region of the atmosphere, between Earth's surface and the stratosphere. Ozone abundance. 
The amount of ozone above a location on the Earth varies naturally with latitude, season, and from day-to-day. Under normal circumstances, the ozone layer is thickest over the poles and thinnest around the equator. 
Near the equator, the troposphere makes up about 18 kilometres of the atmosphere. At the poles, it thins to only 8-kilometres thick. The boundary between the layers, called the tropopause, slopes downward from the equator to the poles like the bottom of a swimming pool. Most of the earth's ozone is contained in the stratosphere, a layer of the atmosphere 1040 km above the surface of the earth. The amount of ozone in the stratosphere is fairly constant when viewed globally. However, it changes throughout the year and from one place to another.