A blister is a collection of clear fluid trapped between or beneath the top layer of skin, the epidermis. Blisters, which are often called “water blisters,” often break open and the fluid inside is released onto the skin. Blisters, also known as vesicles, can occur in all age groups and populations. Blisters can form anywhere on the body, including inside the mouth, nose and genitals. Blisters can occur in isolation or you may develop hundreds of tiny blisters that affect several areas of the body. Blisters can be very tiny and hardly noticeable or quite large, reaching a quarter inch in diameter or larger.
Report Abuse. A blister is a bubble of fluid under the skin. The clear, watery liquid inside a blister is called serum. It leaks in from neighboring tissues as a reaction to injured skin. If the blister remains unopened, serum can provide natural protection for the skin beneath it. Small blisters are called vesicles. Blood if it is a blood blister, pus if it is infected, or serum which is the part of the blood that remains after red blood cells and clotting agents have been removed, is the clear stuff that is usually in blisters.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A blister is a bubble of fluid under the skin. The clear, watery liquid inside a blister is called serum. It leaks in from neighboring tissues as a reaction to injured skin. If the blister remains unopened, serum can provide natural protection for the skin beneath it. Small blisters are called vesicles. Report Abuse. A blister or bulla is a defense mechanism of the human body. When the outer (epidermis) layer of the skin separates from the fibre layer (dermis), a pool of lymph and other bodily fluids collect between these layers while the skin re-grows from underneath.. Lymph is what it is.
Most blisters caused by friction or minor burns do not require a doctor's care. New skin will form underneath the affected area and the fluid is simply absorbed. Do not puncture a blister unless it is large, painful, or likely to be further irritated. The fluid-filled blister keeps the underlying skin clean, which prevents infection and promotes healing. Symptoms. Treatment. 1  Use a sterilized needle or razor blade (to sterilize it, put the point or edge in a flame until it is red hot, or rinse it in alcohol). 2  Wash your hands and the area thoroughly, then make a small hole and gently squeeze out the clear fluid.
Introduction. Blisters are small pockets of fluid that usually form in the upper layers of skin after it's been damaged. Blisters can develop anywhere on the body but are most common on the hands and feet. Fluid collects under the damaged skin, cushioning the tissue underneath. 
A blister is a bubble of skin filled with clear fluid, ranging from pinpoint size to more than an inch in diameter. They are different than pustules, which contain thicker, yellow-white material. Depending on the cause, blistering may be accompanied by pain, redness, or itching. 
For vesiculation in geology, see vesicular texture. A blister is a small pocket of fluid within the upper layers of the skin, typically caused by forceful rubbing (friction), burning, freezing, chemical exposure or infection. Most blisters are filled with a clear fluid called serum or plasma. However, blisters can be filled with blood (known as blood blisters) or with pus (if they become infected). The word blister entered English in the 14th century. It came from the Middle Dutch bluyster, and was a modification of the Old French blostre which meant a leprous nodule—a rise in the skin due to leprosy.