In the first example, you could submit a report for a variety of expenses related to differing. events. But, the purpose should be clear as to what the types of expenses are on the report, who is involved, and the timeframe of the expenses being submitted.
Creating Expense Reports and Spend Authorization Requests 3 related expenses Creating an Expense Report for a Conference Airfare From the Expenses Worklet: 1. Click the Create Expense Report button under the Actions column.
Call the human resources department if you do not fully understand expense report procedures or talk to your supervisor. Step 2. Obtain a copy of the expense report statement or log in to the online version, if your company uses such expense reports.
Generally speaking, this field is what is used to capture the detailed explanation of the business reason behind the expenses that are included on the report. On expense reports that are created using the Business Expenses template, not all expenses on the report may be related to each other.
These are examples of both poor and good purposes for expense reports using the business expense template. In these examples, we are using a generic purpose because there are multiple expenses on the report and they may vary in terms of expense types andtheir relationship to each other.
1) Sign into e-Reimbursement. Click on Create in the e-Reimbursement-Expenses box. A blank Expense Report will appear. To minimize entry and create a duplicate of an existing Expense Report, click on the Quick Start drop-down menu, select An Existing Report and click Go.
If you create expense reports, you know that a Purpose is required on the report and if you create procurement card reports, you know that a Purpose is not required on the report. On both types of reports, additional information is required in the justifi cation.
Workflow example: Route an expense report for review. Your team fills out monthly expense reports that are forms designed with Microsoft Office InfoPath 2007. Your team fills out and stores these forms in a form library on your SharePoint site.
For the recipient, choose the person who must review the expense report. Click OK. You now have a rule where if an expense report is created or changed in the Expense Reports library, and the total expenses for that report are greater than 500 dollars, the correct person is notified to review that report.