This article is about executive agreements between nations in general. For information on executive agreements in US foreign policy, see Foreign policy of the United States#Law. An executive agreement is an agreement between the heads of government of two or more nations that has not been ratified by the legislature as treaties are ratified. Executive agreements are considered politically binding to distinguish them from treaties which are legally binding. An executive agreement is one of three mechanisms by which the United States enters into binding international agreements. They are considered treaties by some authors as the term is used under international law in that they bind both the United States and a foreign sovereign state.
Executive agreements. an agreement between the United States and a foreign government that is less formal than a treaty and is not subject to the constitutional requirement for ratification by two-thirds of the U.S. Senate. 
An agreement made between the executive branch of the US government and a foreign government without ratification by the Senate. 
Executive agreement, also called “international agreement other than treaties” is an international agreement that the US president enters without the Senate’s approval. The President constitutionally enters into these agreements without the advice and consent of the Senate. These agreements are drawn on the sole constitutional authority of the president.
Definition of EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT. : an agreement between the United States and a foreign government made by the executive branch either alone or with Congressional approval and dealing usually with routine matters. ADVERTISEMENT. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about executive agreement. 
An accord made by joint authority of the Congress and the president covering areas of International Law that are not within the ambit of treaties. A congressional-executive agreement comes about in different ways. Congress may authorize the president to conclude a particular agreement already negotiated, as when a multilateral agreement establishes an international organization such as the International Monetary Fund. 
President Obama has entered into a number of executive agreements, including the U.S.-Afghanistan Strategic Partnership Agreement in May 2012 (aka the Enduring Strategic Partnership Agreement between the United States of America and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan). The president of the United States possesses the authority to enter into executive agreements. However, this power does not derive from the U.S. Constitution. The power to enter into a particular executive agreement flows from one of two sources:
INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS WITHOUT SENATE APPROVAL. The capacity of the United States to enter into agreements with other nations is not exhausted in the treaty-making power. The Constitution recognizes a distinction between ''treaties'' and ''agreements'' or ''compacts'' but does not indicate what the difference is. In the 50-year period from 1839 to 1889, a few more executive agreements than treaties were entered into. From 1889 to 1939, almost twice as many executive agreements as treaties were concluded. In the period since 1939, executive agreements have comprised more than 90% of the international agreements
An executive agreement is an agreement entered into between a foreign government and the executive branch of the United States. Although the agreement binds the United States with as much force as a treaty, it is not as formal as a treaty and does not require Senate approval. The president of the United States possesses the authority to enter into executive agreements. However, this power does not derive from the U.S. Constitution. The power to enter into a particular executive agreement flows from one of two sources: