Colby-Jack, or Cojack, is a cheese produced from a mixture of Colby and Monterey Jack cheeses. It is generally sold in a full-moon or a half-moon shape when it is still young and mild in flavor. The cheese has a semi-hard texture. The flavor of Colby-Jack is mild to mellow. Colby-Jack is commonly used on cheese trays, in salads, sandwiches, burritos, casseroles, soups, and sauces. This is a very popular cheese because of its versatile flavor.
Colby cheese is a semi-hard cow's milk cheese native to the United States. But today Colby cheese is made in other regions of the world as well. It is often compared to cheddar cheese, since the two both typically appear orange or creamy yellow. 
Colby cheese is a semi-hard cow's milk cheese native to the United States, although it is made in other regions of the world as well. The cheese is often compared to cheddar cheese, since the two are both typically dyed to appear orange or creamy yellow, although the two cheeses taste very different. 
Joseph F. Steinwand in 1885 developed a new type of cheese at his father's cheese factory near Colby, Wisconsin. The cheese was named after the village, which had been founded three years earlier. While Colby cheese is still available for sale, it is no longer produced in its native Colby, Wisconsin. A festival commemorating the cheese is held every year in mid-July where all local food booths offer free Colby cheese. As with most other cheeses, it takes a little more than a U.S. gallon of milk to produce one pound (just over 8 liters for a kilogram) of cheese. Monterey Jack cheese is produced almost identically to Colby, but Colby is seasoned with annatto which gives it a sweet nutty flavor and its orange color.
Due to U.S. dairy regulations, Colby cheese is made from pasteurised cow’s milk and is available at many grocery stores. The cheese was developed in the 1874 by Joseph Steinwand at his cheese factory near Colby, Wisconsin. While the cheese looks similar Cheddar due to the colour, Colby cheese is softer, has a more open texture and higher moisture content. The flavour is much milder and creamy if compared to Cheddar.
COLBY CHEESE. Colby is similar to Cheddar, but does not undergo the cheddaring process. Considered a semi-hard cheese, Colby is softer, moister, and milder than cheddar because it is produced through a washed-curd process. The washed-curd process means that during the cooking time, the whey is replaced by water; this reduces the curd’s acidity, resulting in Colby’s characteristically mild flavor. 
Best Answer: Colby cheese Country of origin United States Region, town Wisconsin Source of milk cows Pasteurised Texture Semi-hard Aging time None Certification Colby cheese is a cow's milk cheese. It was originally called Colby Cheddar. [6] Colby cheeses are typically sold in half-rounds. Pinconning cheese is a sharp aged relative of Colby cheese. Uses Because it is such a mild cheese, Colby is seldom used in cooking. It is used as a table cheese, for grating and grilling, and in snacks and salads.
Colby Jack or Cojack is a classic American combination of Colby and Monterey Jack cheese. The cheese was invented when Colby and Monterey Jack were blended together before pressing. A semi-soft cheese, it exhibits a unique eye-appealing marbled white and orange exterior that makes it a fun snack to eat on-the-go. The taste of Colby Jack varies from mild and smooth, to lightly sweet, to sharp and tangy.
Colby. Colby cheese, originally called Colby Swiss Cheddar is a semi-hard American cheese prepared from cow’s milk. It is many-a-times compared to cheddar cheese since both are dyed to appear orange, even though they taste radically different. While the cheese looks similar Cheddar due to the colour, Colby cheese is softer, has a more open texture and higher moisture content. The flavour is much milder and creamy if compared to Cheddar.
Colby, a type of cheddar cheese, originates in the United States and is a traditional semi-soft cheese made from cow's milk. The sizes vary, but they are generally block-shaped and free of rind. 