A follicle-stimulating hormone test measures the amount of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in a blood sample. FSH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, FSH helps control the menstrual cycle and the production of eggs by the ovaries. A follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) test may be done to: 1  Help find the cause of infertility. 2  FSH testing is commonly used to help evaluate a: 3  Woman's egg supply (ovarian reserve). 4  Man's low sperm count. 5  Help evaluate menstrual problems, such as irregular or absent menstrual periods (amenorrhea).
In a larger perspective, the whole folliculogenesis from primordial to preovulatory follicle is located in the stage of meiosis I of ootidogenesis in oogenesis. Once a month, one of the ovaries releases a mature egg (ovum), known as an oocyte. A follicle is an anatomical structure in which the primary oocyte develops. The nucleus of such an oocyte is called a germinal vesicle (see picture).
* In a natural cycle, from the antral follicles, one called “dominant” is selected. This follicle differs from the others by its size and rapid growth. Finally will be a mature follicle or De Graaf prepared to “ovulate”. The others atresian, that is they disappear or die as part of a programmed biological process. However, the growth of a follicle does not always mean that contains within a mature egg. As in a semen sample not all spermatozoa have enough quality to fertilize an egg and not all follicles contain mature eggs, or not all eggs have the same quality.
Ovarian follicle is a roughly spheroid cellular aggregation set found in the ovaries. It also secretes hormones that influence stages of the menstrual cycle. Women begin puberty with about 400,000 follicles, each with the potential to release an egg cell (ovum) at ovulation for fertilization. Once a month, one of the ovaries releases a mature egg (ovum), known as an oocyte. A follicle is an anatomical structure in which the primary oocyte develops. The nucleus of such an oocyte is called a germinal vesicle (see picture).
A hair follicle is a part of the skin, which grows a hair by packing old cells together. Also attached to the follicle is a tiny bundle of muscle fiber, called the arrector pili, which is responsible for causing the follicle lissis to become more perpendicular (upright) to the surface of the skin.
Hair follicle: A sac from which a hair grows and into which the sebaceous (oil) glands open. The follicle is lined by cells derived from the epidermal (outside) layer of the skin. Each follicle normally goes through a five-year cycle of growth and rest, with about 90% of the follicles growing hair at any one time, averaging about six inches (15 cm) of growth per year. 
An ovarian follicle is a round cellular structure found in the ovaries that contains an egg, or oocyte, which matures inside the follicle and is eventually released during ovulation. It also secretes hormones that influence stages of the ovarian cycle. The egg itself grows inside the follicle and is eventually released during ovulation. Surrounding the egg is a single layer of cells called granulosa cells, which respond to hormones in the body, producing certain steroids and promoting the growth of the egg.
A hair follicle is a mammalian skin organ that produces hair. Hair production occurs in phases, including growth (anagen), cessation (catagen), and rest (telogen) phases. Stem cells are responsible for hair production. 