Effective January 1, 2011, Medicare started to provide coverage for Annual Wellness Visits. This benefit was included in the Affordable Care Act of 2010. Medicare has come up with two HCPCS codes for these wellness visits for medical billing purposes. The codes are G0438 and G0439. First find out the eligibility for the patient with Medicare; whether this is a Welcome to Medicare Wellness Visit (G0402), Initial Wellness Visit (G0438 – billed subsequent year after billing the welcome visit), or a subsequent Annual wellness Visit.
1 Yearly Wellness visits: If you've had Part B for longer than 12 months, you can get this visit to develop or update a personalized prevention help plan to prevent disease and disability based on your current health and risk factors. Your costs in Original Medicare. You pay nothing for the “Welcome to Medicare” preventive visit or the yearly “Wellness” visit if your doctor or other qualified health care provider accepts assignment. The Part B deductible doesn’t apply
2. What preventive medical visits does Medicare cover? Medicare pays for two wellness visits: a one-time Welcome to Medicare Visit and an Annual Wellness Visit .Within the first 12 months you have Medicare Part B, Medicare covers the one-time Welcome to Medicare Visit. The Annual Wellness Visit can take place every 12 months, and the first visit can be scheduled either 12 months after the Welcome to Medicare Visit or after more than 12 months of your enrollment in Medicare. 8
The Annual Wellness Visit can take place every 12 months, and the first visit can be scheduled either 12 months after the Welcome to Medicare Visit or after more than 12 months of your enrollment in Medicare. 8. Medicare pays for two types of wellness visits: a one-time Welcome to Medicare Visit and an Annual Wellness Visit.
The expansion of Medicare preventive services coverage that took effect on Jan. 1 of this year provides a valuable opportunity for you and your patients to focus on preventive screening and wellness, particularly in the context of an annual wellness visit (AWV), the newest Medicare benefit. 
Annual Wellness visit, including a personalized prevention plan of service (PPPS), subsequent visit. Annual Wellness Visits can be for either new or established patients as the code does not differentiate. The initial AWV, G0438, is performed on patients that have been enrolled with Medicare for more than one year. First find out the eligibility for the patient with Medicare; whether this is a Welcome to Medicare Wellness Visit (G0402), Initial Wellness Visit (G0438 – billed subsequent year after billing the welcome visit), or a subsequent Annual wellness Visit.
If you want more information on the Medicare Annual Wellness Exam, watch our 4-minute Video Primer here. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 added a new benefit for Medicare recipients called an Annual Wellness Visit. Contrary to patient and physician expectations, it is not a physical exam or preventive medicine service, as defined by CPT codes 99381-99397
The Annual Wellness Visits (first and subsequent) are similar to but not the same as the Welcome to Medicare visit. The annual wellness visit is a yearly visit with your primary care doctor to create or update a 5-10 year preventive schedule based on your needs. None of these annual preventive visits is considered a traditional annual head-to-toe physical. © 2014 Medicare Rights Center Hotline: 800.333.4114 www.medicareinteractive.org Outline of the additional services you should expect at each visit: Note: The initial Annual Wellness Visit cannot happen in the same twelve months as the Welcome to Medicare Visit.