School, social or industrial-organizational psychologists typically need master's or specialist degrees. However, clinical, counseling or research psychologists are required to earn doctoral degrees. Graduate students gain valuable research experience through classes, seminars, conferences and lab work. Learn how to become a psychologist. Research the job description and the education and licensing requirements, and find out how to start a career in psychology.
A master's or doctoral degree, and a license, are required for most psychologists.   Education and training. A doctoral degree usually is required for independent pra … ctice as a psychologist. Training to Become a Criminal Psychologist  The first step to becoming a Criminal Psychologist is to complete a 4-year bachelor degree in psychology. That requires keeping y … our grades above a C at all times and completing 120 credit hours of coursework, as well as a 500-hour internship.
Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. Undergraduate Studies. Before you begin formal training in graduate school to become a therapist, you will have to finish a bachelor's degree at a college or university. A major in a field such as psychology or social work can give you the strong background you will need to excel in graduate school.
The training and licensing of clinical psychologists ranges from 4 year undergraduate degree plus a 4 to 6 year doctorate program. Most programs in the U.S. are PhD programs that have a strong focus on research and are typically housed in universities. 
A master's degree is the minimum requirement for most psychologist positions, and jobs in some branches of psychology will require you to have a doctorate degree. Upon completion of a doctorate program in psychology, you will be awarded either a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) or Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. Counseling Psychologist. You must have a master's degree and complete at least 100 hours of experience working directly with patients to become a licensed professional counselor (LPC). You may also have to pass an exam given by the state licensing board.
As with all other psychology careers, becoming a clinical psychologist requires extensive training and education. In order to start a clinical psychology career, individuals will typically need to earn a Bachelor's in psychology or clinical psychology. Additional schooling is also usually necessary after the four year degree. This typically includes earning a Master's degree and Doctoral degree in clinical psychology. To learn more about the available colleges for these programs in your area visit our Find a School Page.
Degree: A master's or doctoral degree, and a license, are required for most psychologists. Education and Training: A doctoral degree usually is required for independent practice as a psychologist. People with a master's degree in psychology may work as industrial-organizational psychologists. They also may work as psychological assistants conducting research under the direct supervision of doctoral-level psychologists. A master's degree in psychology requires at least 2 years of full-time graduate study.
Becoming a psychologist requires significant education, especially at the graduate-level. In addition to theoretical and applied coursework, psychology students must accrue significant work experience. Depending on the program, students may be able to choose a concentration, such as clinical psychology. Source: *U.S. 
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years). But here is a general timeline
A bachelor's degree with a psychology major or substantial psychology coursework is generally required for admission to psychology doctoral programs (some also require a master's degree in psychology). Learn how to become a psychologist. Research the job description and the education and licensing requirements, and find out how to start a career in psychology.