(October 2015). The Wyvern, or Green Dragon. A wyvern (/ˈwaɪvərn/ WEYE-vərn), sometimes spelled wivern, is a legendary winged creature with a dragon 's head and wings; a reptilian body; two legs; and a tail. A sea-dwelling variant, dubbed the sea-wyvern, has a fish tail in place of a barbed dragon's tail. The wyvern is also a fairly popular commercial logo or mascot, especially in Wales and what was once the West Country Kingdom of Wessex, but also farther afield in Herefordshire and Worcestershire, as the rivers Wye and Severn run through Hereford and Worcester respectively.
A wyvern (sometimes “wivern”) is a reptile-like creature which is part of European lores and legendary myths. It has a head that looks similar to a dragon and has wings for flying. Part of its body also resembles a snake, especially on its tail part. Wiverns either have two legs or none of them. The word “wyvern” or “wivern” is a derivative of the word “wyvere” which has Middle English or Saxon roots. This particular animal is said to be closely related to the dragon because of its reptilian look and wings. Many also consider it a dragon type or a dragon subspecies.
• WYVERN (noun). The noun WYVERN has 1 sense: 1. a fire-breathing dragon used in medieval heraldry; had the head of a dragon and the tail of a snake and a body with wings and two legs. Familiarity information: WYVERN used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
Noun. 1. wyvern-a fire-breathing dragon used in medieval heraldry; had the head of a dragon and the tail of a snake and a body with wings and two legs. wivern. dragon, firedrake-a creature of Teutonic mythology; usually represented as breathing fire and having a reptilian body and sometimes wings. 1  Facebook. wyvern. n. 1. (Heraldry) a heraldic beast having a serpent's tail and a dragon's head
An adult wyvern is nearly the size of a full-grown dragon, but where a dragon is saurian and lithe, a wyvern has thicker musculature and a more sinewy bulk. A wyvern’s head is stout and squarish with a split-mandible mouth and protruding fins. These are colorful creatures, garish and fierce. 
A Wyvern is a miniboss that spawns in the sky. Its face slightly resembles that of a dog's, and it has the body of a serpent/dragon with hands and feet. It is the weaker version of the Arch Wyvern (console/mobile only). 
Definition of WYVERN. : a mythical animal usually represented as a 2-legged winged creature resembling a dragon. 
Quinsigamond Community College’s mascot is the Wyvern. The Wyvern is a mythical, winged dragon that was viewed as the ancient protector of Worcestershire, England. As the Wyvern protected Worcestershire, England, QCC protects Worcester, MA
The Wyvern, or Green Dragon. A wyvern (/ˈwaɪvərn/ WEYE-vərn), sometimes spelled wivern, is a legendary winged creature with a dragon 's head and wings; a reptilian body; two legs; and a tail. The wyvern is also a fairly popular commercial logo or mascot, especially in Wales and what was once the West Country Kingdom of Wessex, but also farther afield in Herefordshire and Worcestershire, as the rivers Wye and Severn run through Hereford and Worcester respectively.