The abyssal zone is a subdivision of the benthic zone. The abyssal zone includes the deep-ocean floor, such as abyssal plains. This zone is characterized by extremely high water pressure, consistently low temperature, no sunlight, and sparse life. Food sources at abyssal depths typically come from the surface. The aphotic part of this zone has giant squid and other species that are adapted to life in deep water. Benthos organisms such as giant kelp, sponges, crabs, sea anemones, sea stars, and marine worms that attach to, crawl upon, or burrow into the seafloor occupy parts
The sunlit region near the surface in which photosynthesis can occur is known as the photic zone. The photic zone may be as deep as 200 meters in tropical seas, but just a few meters deep or less in rivers and swamps. “The physical and chemical structure of the ocean provides habitats that marine organisms depend on. Photosynthetic algae, called phytoplankton, live in the photic zone. Zooplankton—tiny free-floating animals—eat phytoplankton. This is the first step in many aquatic food webs. Below the photic zone is the dark. aphotic. zone. , where photosynthesis cannot occur.
This is a relatively thin layer (10–100 m) near the ocean's surface where there is sufficient light for photosynthesis to occur. For practical purposes, the thickness of the photic zone is typically defined by the depth at which light reaches 1% of its surface value. 
Phytoplankton drifting about below the surface of the water still carry out photosynthesis. This process can occur as long as enough light is available for the chlorophyll and other pigments to absorb. In the ocean, light can reach as far as 200m below the surface 25. This region where sunlight can reach is known as the euphotic zone. Phytoplankton and other algae can be found throughout this zone. 
It also varies with seasonal changes in turbidity. Since the photic zone is where almost all of the photosynthesis occurs, the depth of the photic zone is generally proportional to the level of primary production that occurs in that area of the ocean. About 90% of all marine life lives in the photic zone. The bottommost zone, below the euphotic zone, is called the aphotic zone. Most deep ocean waters belong to this zone. The transparency of the water, which determines the depth of the photic zone, is measured simply with a Secchi disk.
In the euphotic zone, phytoplankton use sunlight to produce food and become the basis of most oceanic food webs. Although photosynthesis cannot occur much below 100 meters, there is enough light in the lower photic zone for marine animals to avoid predators, find food, recognize their species, and locate mates. The aphotic part of this zone has giant squid and other species that are adapted to life in deep water. Benthos organisms such as giant kelp, sponges, crabs, sea anemones, sea stars, and marine worms that attach to, crawl upon, or burrow into the seafloor occupy parts of the benthic zone.
The eupohotic zone is the portion of the photic zone near the surface where the sunlight is strong enough for photosynthesis to occur. In the open ocean, this zone can reach a depth of 100 meters, but the zone will be much shallower closer to shore where clarity is typically reduced. In the eupohotic zone, phytoplankton use sunlight to produce food and become the basis of most oceanic food webs. Although photosynthesis cannot occur much below 100 meters, there is enough light in the lower photic zone for marine mammals to avoid predators, find food, recognize other species, and locate mates. Animals in this zone swim or float freely. The photic part of the pelagic zone is home to phytoplankton, zooplankton, and nekton, such as tuna, sea turtles, and dolphins. The aphotic part of this zone has giant squid and other species that have adapted to life in the deep waters.
The zone which extends from the base of the euphotic zone to about 200 metres is sometimes called the disphotic zone. While there is some light, it is insufficient for photosynthesis, or at least insufficient for photosynthesis at a rate greater than respiration. The bottommost zone, below the euphotic zone, is called the aphotic zone. Most deep ocean waters belong to this zone. The transparency of the water, which determines the depth of the photic zone, is measured simply with a Secchi disk.
The euphotic zone is the portion of the photic zone near the surface where light is strong enough for photosynthesis to occur. In the open ocean, this zone can reach a depth of 100 meters, but the zone will be much shallower close to shore where water clarity is typically reduced. The aphotic part of this zone has giant squid and other species that are adapted to life in deep water. Benthos organisms such as giant kelp, sponges, crabs, sea anemones, sea stars, and marine worms that attach to, crawl upon, or burrow into the seafloor occupy parts of the benthic zone.