This is a very common question in consulting interviews. It is called an “estimation question”. See either the chapter in my book Case Interview Secrets http://www.caseinterviewsecrets.com with a similar chapter title or search for articles on that topic at http://www.caseinterview.com/search. So, in this two-section article, I'll first address the key questions interviewers are asking themselves when speaking to candidates. In the second section, I'll outline the key stages within the consulting interview and offer some quick tips to help ensure that you're conveying the right answers to these questions.
Hi, my name is Victor Cheng. I'm a former McKinsey consultant, resume screener, and case interviewer. To discover how I passed 60 out of 61 case interviews and landed 7 consulting job offers, get my free 6 hour case interview training videos and the case secrets email newsletter that I'm famous for. To receive these members-only resources, just register below for free instant access:
A case interview is a kind of job interview that is commonly used in consultancies. It is a specific interview type which is used to assess candidates. Case interviews are well suited to find out about a candidate’s quantitative and qualitative skills that are necessary in consulting. 
Get cash for your consulting case interview questions Email now to learn more! Below you will find links to 3 of the most common types of management consulting case interview question. Each case question is taken directly from very own 'Ace The Case' guide (2015 edtion).
“Case Interview Frameworks” is one of the most searched phrases in consulting prep. Indeed, it’s one of the core concepts in case interviews that every candidate should understand really well. Simply put, case interview frameworks are like standard templates, used to structure and break down common business problems.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A case interview is a job interview in which the applicant is given a question, situation, problem or challenge and asked to resolve the situation. The case is often a business situation or a business case that the interviewer has worked on in real life. A case interview can also be conducted as a group exercise. Here several candidates are given some briefing materials on a business problem and asked to discuss and agree upon a solution.
When improving your consulting interview performance, it can help to get back to the fundamentals. Legendary basketball coach John Wooden was famous for telling his players in during their first practice, Gentleman, this is a basketball.. So, in this two-section article, I'll first address the key questions interviewers are asking themselves when speaking to candidates. In the second section, I'll outline the key stages within the consulting interview and offer some quick tips to help ensure that you're conveying the right answers to these questions.
In tackling consulting interviews (which I'll refer to interchangeably as  case interviews  the more common term), it's quite possible to experience a sort of mental overload associated with case interview frameworks, tips, and feedback coming from a dozen different sources. So, in this two-section article, I'll first address the key questions interviewers are asking themselves when speaking to candidates. In the second section, I'll outline the key stages within the consulting interview and offer some quick tips to help ensure that you're conveying the right answers to these questions.
A case interview is a unique type of job interview technique used predominantly by management consulting firms (and increasngly investment banks and tech companies) to better screen candidates, by assessing their analytical skills in a pressured real-time environment. Some consulting firms will even take your hand written notes after the interview has concluded to help them further assess and discuss the performance of each candidate with their colleagues. After some light conversation and “getting to know you” type questions, the interviewer will pose the case question.