Of all the snakes on this list, the ball python sits right at the edge of a good beginner snake. It has more specific care requirements than the others. In addition to its care requirements, the ball python often stops eating, or going “off feed” for whatever reason at any time of the year. We often get questions about what is an ideal beginner-friendly snake for those new to the hobby. Beginner meaning fairly easy to care for with not a lot of requirements other than good husbandry and attention to detail. Of all the reptiles available in the hobby, snakes seem to be the most popular. Go to any reptile show, and the majority of the animals available are of the legless kind
Snakes to Avoid. Beginners should avoid large constricting snakes, venomous snakes, and snakes with more difficult care requirements, including such snakes as: 1  Boa constrictors / red-tailed boas (not as large as some constricting snakes, but still a handful, especially for beginners). 2  Burmese pythons. 3  Tree boas or pythons
If you are new to pet snakes, find out what you should consider before deciding on a pet snake, and what species are the best snakes for beginners. Choosing a Snake as a Pet-First Things First. 1  When choosing a snake, you are making a long term commitment-many can be expected to live longer than 20 years. Beginners should avoid large constricting snakes, venomous snakes, and snakes with more difficult care requirements, including such snakes as: 1  Boa constrictors / red-tailed boas (not as large as some constricting snakes, but still a handful, especially for beginners).
you said you don't like pythons cause they get huge no they don't & if you live in australia you have native pythons that stay small like the spotted python & others. if you cant feed live that is not a bad thing prekill or frozen thut is best way to feed a snake thats how i do it. Not every python gets to be freakin huge. OK i don't think Australia has the same laws with snakes as we do here in the states. I think you can only own native species. So what you can get i think is a children s python.
While there is an appeal to the boas and pythons, for a beginner, I would recommend a kingsnake, milk snake or a member of the corn/rat snake group and not a boa or python, which grow much larger. 
i want to keep a snake as a pet but i don't want a snake that grows really big, but i want a snake that likes to be handled. i don't really mind how huge is the tank. i'll do all the research after i have decided on a snake but i can find one. i don't like the pythons they grow to huge and i have... Not every python gets to be freakin huge. OK i don't think Australia has the same laws with snakes as we do here in the states. I think you can only own native species. So what you can get i think is a children s python.
IMHO, a seven foot snake is not big as far as snakes go. If you can find someone in your area with a Carpet or a Spotted, ask if you can handle it for a while and see how you like it. If it's too big for what you and your family are comfortable with, go for a Children's. Not every python gets to be freakin huge. OK i don't think Australia has the same laws with snakes as we do here in the states. I think you can only own native species. So what you can get i think is a children s python.
You can start these snakes in a 20-gallon long enclosure and move up to 30 gallons as adults, with four foot long enclosures the optimum size for adult gopher snakes. For substrate, about two to three inches of aspen wood bedding is ideal as this allows the snake to burrow. We often get questions about what is an ideal beginner-friendly snake for those new to the hobby. Beginner meaning fairly easy to care for with not a lot of requirements other than good husbandry and attention to detail. Of all the reptiles available in the hobby, snakes seem to be the most popular. Go to any reptile show, and the majority of the animals available are of the legless kind
With the interpreter, documentation is never far from the student as he’s programming. There are also good IDEs for Python. IDLE is a cross-platform IDE for Python that is written in Python using Tkinter. PythonWin is a Windows-specific IDE. Emacs users will be happy to know that there is a very good Python mode for Emacs. Absolutely! If you want to learn programming yourself, check out the. over at the Python Wiki. If you want to discuss Python’s use in education, then you may be interested in joining the edu-sig mailing list. The rest of this article provides some advise for teachers.