The humming bird eggs will be white and less than half an inch long, about the size of a small jelly bean or pea. The female hummingbird will incubate the eggs usually for 16 to 18 days (hummingbird eggs gestation period) or up to three weeks if the weather happens to be cooler. She tries to maintain a temperature around 96 degrees. Hummingbird Eggs. The female hummingbird will usually lay 2 eggs in the hummingbird nest, sometimes only 1. The hummingbird eggs will be laid on 2 different days, but will usually hatch on the same day because the female will not start incubating the the eggs until the second egg is laid.
Up to Top of Page. Incubation lasts about 14-16 days--perhaps as long as 21 days in cool weather--during which time the female Ruby-throated Hummingbird is on the nest for about 50-55 minutes out of each hour. When the chicks hatch, they are about 2cm long, altricial (naked), and with very short bills. 
So in general, the gestation period of hummingbird eggs is between two and three weeks, depending on the circumstances which are happening at the time. A hummingbird eggs will be white in color and only about the size of a pea or jelly bean. Since it is quite difficult to locate a hummingbird’s nest and therefore most of us may never see one for ourselves, I thought I would share with you some information about the hummingbird’s eggs and the length of their gestation period. In most cases, a female hummingbird will lay two eggs.
How long does a mother hummingbird sit on the eggs? How long will it be until they leave the nest after they hatch? - Brian A Dear Brian,It takes about 13-22 days for the eggs to hatch. (It takes longer for some species than for others.) The young birds leave the nest in 19-29 days. (This also depends on the species.) Larry & Terrie.
(hummingbird eggs gestation period). The female hummingbird will incubate the eggs usually for 16 to 18 days (hummingbird eggs gestation period) or up to three weeks if the weather happens to be cooler. She tries to maintain a temperature around 96 degrees. Hummingbird Eggs. The female hummingbird will usually lay 2 eggs in the hummingbird nest, sometimes only 1. The hummingbird eggs will be laid on 2 different days, but will usually hatch on the same day because the female will not start incubating the the eggs until the second egg is laid.
The answer is because the female hummingbird will not start incubating the eggs until both of them have been laid. The incubation period for hummingbird last usually between 16-18 days, but it can last as long as three weeks if the weather at the time is cooler then usual. The female hummingbird tries to maintain the temperature of the nest at about 96 degrees. Since it is quite difficult to locate a hummingbird’s nest and therefore most of us may never see one for ourselves, I thought I would share with you some information about the hummingbird’s eggs and the length of their gestation period. In most cases, a female hummingbird will lay two eggs.
The incubation period  for bluebird eggs is 12-14 days, but incubation may not start until  a week after the first egg is laid, in which case the period can  extend to 19 days. The incubation for humming birds last about 14 to 16 days. It can  go as long as 21 days in cooler temperatures. Hummingbirds are on  there nest 50 to 55 minutes every hour.
1 In the Ruby-throated Hummingbird, incubation--which is done only by the female--usually lasts 16-18 days, sometimes longer during cool weather. 2  She typically lays one egg, skips a day, and then lays a second; incubation does not start until both eggs are laid. The best way to find a hummer nest is to wait for the female to lead you to it. This may not work, however, since the nest can be up to 1.5km or more from a good feeding area. Among Ruby-throated Hummingbirds, nests may be in hardwoods or evergreens from about one to 20 meters (three to 60 feet) from the ground.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The hummingbird's gestation period, or the length of time for the egg to hatch, ranges from two to three weeks (about 13-22 days), depending on a variety of conditions. The incubation for humming birds last about 14 to 16 days. It can  go as long as 21 days in cooler temperatures. Hummingbirds are on  there nest 50 to 55 minutes every hour.