Every business is impacted by events and a poor response to those events could, in extreme cases, result in the loss of the business. Learn what contingency planning is, why we do it, and the process for implementing it at your company. A good contingency plan should include any event that might disrupt operations. Here are some specific areas to include in the plan: 1  Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires and earthquakes. 2  Crises, such as threatening employees or customers, on-the-job injuries, and worksite accidents.
Part of the Business terms glossary: A contingency plan is a course of action designed to help an organization respond effectively to a significant future event or situation that may or may not happen. A contingency plan is sometimes referred to as Plan B, because it can be also used as an alternative for action if expected results fail to materialize. Contingency planning is a component of business continuity, disaster recovery and risk management. The seven-steps outlined for an IT contingency plan in the NIST 800-34 Rev. 1 publication are: 1. Develop the contingency planning policy statement.
Lesson Summary. Let's review. Contingency planning is the process of developing responses in advance for various situations that might impact business. To protect the business as much as possible, it's very important to have a contingency plan in place in order to mitigate any issues that may arise. A good contingency plan should include any event that might disrupt operations. Here are some specific areas to include in the plan: 1  Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires and earthquakes. 2  Crises, such as threatening employees or customers, on-the-job injuries, and worksite accidents.
The purpose of a contingency plan is for a business to have a specific set of instructions in place if certain events that may interrupt normal business operations occur. 
Contingency planning. Contingency planning aims to prepare an organization to respond well to an emergency and its potential humanitarian impact. 
Contingency planning is developing responses in advance for various situations that might impact business. Although negative events probably come to mind first, a good contingency plan should also address positive events that might disrupt operations-such as a very large order. A good contingency plan should include any event that might disrupt operations. Here are some specific areas to include in the plan: 1  Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires and earthquakes. 2  Crises, such as threatening employees or customers, on-the-job injuries, and worksite accidents.
A contingency plan is an outline of procedures to follow in case of a major event, such as a server crash or building fire. A contingency plan is a written way of saying, that should a problem arise, you have thought of ways to prevent the loss of vital information or reduce the impact to your business. Many quality driven organizations and companies have contingency plans not only for individual systems, but for whole departments
For the play of this title, see The Contingency Plan. A contingency plan is a plan devised for an outcome other than in the usual (expected) plan. It is often used for risk management when an exceptional risk that, though unlikely, would have catastrophic consequences. Contingency plans are often devised by governments or businesses. 
Contingency plans protect a company from unforeseen threats. business 2 image by Nathalie P from Fotolia.com. A contingency is an unexpected event or situation that affects the financial health, professional image, or market share of a company. It is usually a negative event, but can also be an unexpected windfall such as a huge order