Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. We just got three estimates for a concrete block retaining wall using 8 x 8 x 18 blocks. One was $24 per square one was $27 per square foot and the last one was $51 per square foot not including the labor to dig the footing. Tomorrow we will go and check some of the walls they have built to make our decision. I am hoping at least for the $27. So get at least three estimates and go from there.
Retaining Wall Costs. The cost of a retaining wall depends on the material chosen, the overall height of the wall and the length of the wall. Wood retaining walls start at $15 per square foot, while concrete retaining walls start at $20 per square foot.
A natural stone wall will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot based on the type of stone chosen. A concrete block wall costs $6.10 to $7.60 per linear foot. Homeowners will also need to pay for any other materials needed, including steel bars, sand to keep the stones from rubbing against each other and mortar. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot. Hollow bricks feature a unique design with a durable shell and a hollow space in the center of each brick. Traditional brick walls cost around $14.10 per square foot.
Estimating. Estimatingwith STANDARD ICFs. Block Size: 48 long, 16 high and 11 1/4 wide. 1 yard of concrete fills 10.5 straight forms 1 yard fills 13.5 corner forms How to find the number of forms needed: 1) Multiply the height of the wall (in feet), by the length of the wall (in feet). 2) Subtract the area, in sq. ft, of all window and door openings. 
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall ranges between $8.59 - $11.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
Concrete construction unit cost for installation of concrete foundation walls or retaining walls. This cost covers the cost per square foot of a wall of any thickness. Use it along with the cost per yard. One square foot of horizontal wall area. We figure one skilled hour for every 8 square feet of wall area, plus one unskilled hour for every 16 square feet of wall area. This covers installation and removal of wall forms, reinforcing and wall ties, plus final finishing of the concrete surfaces. 
For Ralston, $39 per square foot is the average cost he charges for a wall under 4 feet tall. For walls below 4 feet, he says his prices are often competitive with finished block. A block wall has to be stuccoed or finished with veneer, while a concrete wall does not need an added finish. The total cost to have a concrete retaining wall installed will be a combination of material and labor prices. For a basic wall you can expect to pay between $30 and $40 per square foot.
Retaining Wall Cost. Poured retaining walls with elaborate curves require complex formwork and will drive up cost for a wall. The total cost to have a concrete retaining wall installed will be a combination of material and labor prices. For a basic wall you can expect to pay between $30 and $40 per square foot. If you add a decorative finish, curves, steps, lighting or other upgrades, the cost will rise
This Concrete Block Wall estimator will provide you with up to date pricing for your area. Simply enter your zip code and the square footage, next click update and you will see a breakdown on what it should cost to have Concrete Block Wall installed onto your home. Example: a 10 x 10 area = 100 square feet. 