It's a sudden jolt. Now, most of the time when a defibrillator shock occurs in an appropriate session, whether it's an external shock through an AED or an internal shock through an implantable cardioverter defibrillator or ICD, if the patient is already unconscious, they won't ever feel or remember the shock.
The defibrillator shock is the strongest treatment. Many people say it feels like being kicked in the chest. It usually comes suddenly and lasts less than a second. Although you may feel upset for a short time after a defibrillator shock, it is good to know that the ICD probably saved your life. Pacing a slow heart rate uses very little energy.
An implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD, or implantable cardioverter defibrillator) is an internal shocking device that provides immediate therapy to a life-threatening arrhythmia (heart beating too quickly) via a jolt of electricity.
At times, an appropriate shock from an ICD and certainly inappropriate shock from an ICD will occur when the patient is indeed awake and at that point, it would be uncomfortable -- not terribly painful, but uncomfortable. Comments.
Embed Code: If the device needs to give your heart a shock, because it senses life-threatening abnormal beats, it may feel like being thumped or kicked in the chest. It usually comes suddenly and lasts for a brief time.
The shock from an ICD hurts briefly. It's been described as feeling like a punch in the chest. But the shock is a sign that the ICD is doing its job to keep your heart beating. You won't feel any pain if the ICD uses electrical pulses to fix a heart rate that is too fast or too slow.
An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator system (often called an ICD) includes a pulse generator and one or more leads that are put into (surgically implanted in) your body. The pulse generator, which constantly watches your heart beat, is like a small computer. It runs on a battery.
The defibrillator shock is the strongest treatment. Many people say it feels like being kicked in the chest. It usually comes suddenly and lasts only a second. Some people are upset for a short time after a defibrillator shock, but other people feel reassured that the ICD is treating their heart rhythm problem.