When puppies are born, they have no teeth because milk is the only food they need. The deciduous teeth will grow from the age of 3 to 8 weeks old, in the order of incisors, canine/ fangs and premolars. Yorkie puppies have no molar teeth. The permanent or adult grow when the Yorkie puppies are 4 to 8 months old. By around 8 months old, those teeth should fully develop. The permanent or adult teeth will grow in the order of incisors, canine/fangs, premolars and molars.
Like humans, dogs have two sets of teeth in their lives. The 28 baby teeth erupt through the gums between the third and sixth weeks of age. Puppies do not have to grind much food, so they do not have molars. Puppy teeth begin to shed and be replaced by permanent adult teeth at about four months of age. Although there is some variation in breeds, most adult dogs have 42 teeth, with the molars coming last, at about six or seven month
Adult teeth start to form at 4 months of age.. Puppies are born without teeth and get their puppy teeth between the 6 and 8th week of life and grow 28 teeth (called deciduous or baby teeth). The first teeth to emerge are the incisors at 2 to 3 weeks followed by the canines and the premolars. Puppies do not have molars. 
Newborn Teeth. Puppies are initially born without teeth. They do not receive their first puppy teeth until they reach the age of between six and eight weeks old. They grow a total of 28 teeth, which are known as baby teeth or deciduous teeth. Between the ages of six and seven months, the adult molars will come in. Finally, by seven to eight months, the full set of adult teeth should have come in.ConsiderationsBy the time a puppy is eight months old, it should have a full set of a total of 42 teeth, but some breeds have more or fewer.
Almost without exception, puppies are born without teeth. Deciduous teeth, or milk teeth begin to appear at about three weeks of age. By six to eight weeks of age, the puppy will have a full set of 28 baby teeth. At about eight weeks of age, the puppy’s permanent teeth begin pushing out the milk teeth. The roots of the baby teeth are absorbed by the body, and in most cases, milk teeth simply fall out. Permanent teeth replace the milk teeth tooth for tooth, but in addition add four premolars and ten molars
In puppies, the entire teething process is relatively rapid. Teething begins in puppies at about 3½ to 4 months of age, when the primary incisors begin to be replaced by permanent incisors. By the time the average puppy reaches 6-7 months of age, all 42 adult teeth will have erupted.
At the age of four months, the adult molars and adult canines are beginning to come in. Between the ages of six and seven months, the adult molars will come in. Finally, by seven to eight months, the full set of adult teeth should have come in.ConsiderationsBy the time a puppy is eight months old, it should have a full set of a total of 42 teeth, but some breeds have more or fewer.
Puppies start to get their puppy teeth at the age of 3 to 4 weeks. They will start with 28 puppy teeth. These teeth will be replaced with their 42 permanent adult teeth at about the age of four months. Dogs have four different types of teeth: The permanent or adult grow when the Yorkie puppies are 4 to 8 months old. By around 8 months old, those teeth should fully develop. The permanent or adult teeth will grow in the order of incisors, canine/fangs, premolars and molars.
Most pups will have 42 permanent teeth in place by about seven months of age. When the deciduous teeth don't fall out on time, the puppy may appear to have a double set of teeth. Retained baby teeth should be extracted by your veterinarian so that permanent teeth will have room to grow. At about eight weeks of age, the puppy’s permanent teeth begin pushing out the milk teeth. The roots of the baby teeth are absorbed by the body, and in most cases, milk teeth simply fall out. Permanent teeth replace the milk teeth tooth for tooth, but in addition add four premolars and ten molars