Best Answer: grenadine is non alcoholic cherry juice and is used to color and sweeten drinks..... it USED TO be made from pomegranate, but is now made from cherries....... you can use the juice from the marchino cherries, basically the same thing, only thinner..... 20 yrs as a bar manager. It's used to make non-alcoholic drinks like a Shirley Temple (mixed with a lemon-lime drink like Sprite, 7-Up or Sierra Mist) and in alcoholic cocktails like a Tequila Sunrise. Grenadine itself is not alcoholic, and a lot of the stuff doesn't include fruit juice anymore. Source(s): Bartending knowledge.
The name grenadine originated from the French word grenade which means pomegranate, with pomme meaning apple and granate derived from the Italian word for seeds. Grenadine was originally prepared from pomegranate juice, sugar, and water. Grenadine is also a popular ingredient in some non-alcoholic drinks, such as the Roy Rogers, pink lemonade and Shirley Temple cocktails, or simply by mixing the syrup with cold water in a glass or jug, sometimes with ice.
[ Photograph: Liam Boylan ]. Grenadine is a pomegranate syrup—or that's what it's supposed to be. If you've ever seen a pomegranate, you know that it's not an easy fruit to juice. So somewhere along the way, grenadine makers strayed away from using real pomegranate juice and instead used corn syrup and red dye #40. 
A glass and bottle of commercially available grenadine. Grenadine is a commonly used, non-alcoholic bar syrup, characterized by a flavor that is both tart and sweet, and by a deep red color. It is popular as an ingredient in cocktails, both for its flavor and to give a reddish/pink tint to mixed drinks. Grenadine is also a popular ingredient in some non-alcoholic drinks, such as the Roy Rogers, pink lemonade and Shirley Temple cocktails, or simply by mixing the syrup with cold water in a glass or jug, sometimes with ice.
Grenadine is a sweet, red syrup made from the juice of pomegranates. There's no alcohol in it unless someone actually adds it. It's the red stuff used to make a non-alcoholic drink called a Shirley Temple. It's used to make non-alcoholic drinks like a Shirley Temple (mixed with a lemon-lime drink like Sprite, 7-Up or Sierra Mist) and in alcoholic cocktails like a Tequila Sunrise. Grenadine itself is not alcoholic, and a lot of the stuff doesn't include fruit juice anymore. Source(s): Bartending knowledge.
Grenadine syrup. Grenadine is a strong red syrup made from red currants and pomegranates. It is a useful ingredient for many cocktails-acting as both a colouring and sweetener. Grenadine is available in bottles-Rose's Grenadine being one of the better and most popular choices among cocktail lovers. view recipes with grenadine syrup. 
Grenadine is a commonly used, non-alcoholic bar syrup, characterized by a flavor that is both tart and sweet, and by a deep red color. Grenadine is also a popular ingredient in some non-alcoholic drinks, such as the Roy Rogers, pink lemonade and Shirley Temple cocktails, or simply by mixing the syrup with cold water in a glass or jug, sometimes with ice.
Grenadine (also spelled grenadin) is a sweet syrup. It's used to make non-alcoholic drinks like a Shirley Temple (mixed with a lemon-lime drink like Sprite, 7-Up or Sierra Mist) and in alcoholic cocktails like a Tequila Sunrise. Grenadine itself is not alcoholic, and a lot of the stuff doesn't include fruit juice anymore. Source(s): Bartending knowledge.
Total Time: Active Time: Makes: 1 1/2 cups. Authentic grenadine syrup is made from pomegranate juice sweetened with sugar and flavored with a few drops of lemon juice and orange-flower water (as opposed to corn syrup and red dye). Once you taste the real deal in, say, a Mary Pickford, you’ll never go back to the Shirley Temple cocktail mixer of your youth. 