Because Roundup is nonselective, avoid spraying on windy days; overspray may kill your desirable garden plants. Also avoid spraying when rain is in the forecast; if it rains within six hours you may have to reapply the Roundup to kill the weeds. Roundup is a nonselective weed killer, usually applied to the foliage of weeds and other unwanted plants. To ensure success, spray the weeds' leaves until they're completely wet, but not dripping.
Time of Day. Controlling weeds with Roundup is best between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Even if the temperature is right, do not apply Roundup if rain is expected for one or two hours. Do not apply Roundup at otherwise optimal temperatures if the wind is blowing. Wind can blow Roundup onto your good plants. The air should be calm. Roundup is a systemic herbicide. That means it must be absorbed by the leaves. It moves down the plant and into the roots. This takes time. In about seven to 10 days plants sprayed with Roundup will begin turn yellow, after which they will die.
Roundup Transorb® HC or Roundup WeatherMAX® herbicides should be applied at 0.67 L/ac for pre-harvest applications. Using 10 gallons of water per acre is recommended for dense crop canopies and for weeds that are hidden by the crop, such as dandelions. Post Harvest: If forecasted daytime temperatures are a minimum of 8-10°C, start spraying in the morning provided there has not been a killing frost and the dew or snowmelt is not causing the herbicide to run off the plant.
Schedule spraying for moderate temperature. The effectiveness of Roundup decreases with very low or high temperatures. Choose a day for application with mild temperatures in the 65 to 75 degree F range. Applying herbicide on hot days causes quick evaporation of the weed killer from plant leaves. 
Cool weather and frost also reduce the ability of Roundup to kill weeds. Likewise, the effectiveness of Roundup declines at temperatures above 85 degrees Fahrenheit. The best temperature to apply Roundup is between 60 degrees and 85 degrees. Roundup is a systemic herbicide. That means it must be absorbed by the leaves. It moves down the plant and into the roots. This takes time. In about seven to 10 days plants sprayed with Roundup will begin turn yellow, after which they will die.
Ideal Weather. The recommended temperature for spraying Roundup for the quickest results is between 70 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit on a clear day. You may see results on annual grasses within to two to four days and seven or more days for perennial grasses when you apply the herbicide within these temperature ranges. Apply Roundup to healthy grass for the best control. Roundup is a nonselective herbicide produced by Monsanto Company. When properly mixed with water it can kill many varieties of plants, including grasses. Weather is one of the factors that can determine the efficacy of Roundup.
Roundup is effective on grasses and broadleaf weeds. Donning your armor of long sleeves and pants, safety glasses and plastic gloves, you're ready to do battle with the never-ending weeds in your garden. Wielding your sprayer filled with Roundup (glyphosate), you briskly step outside into the chilly morning air. While you may wonder if it's too cold to spray those weeds, according to the manufacturer the ideal temperature for applying Roundup is between 53 and 77 degrees Fahrenheit. Roundup is a nonselective weed killer, usually applied to the foliage of weeds and other unwanted plants. To ensure success, spray the weeds' leaves until they're completely wet, but not dripping.