Although they are lively right away, just-hatched killdeer are like new fawns, a bit tottery and clumsy on their overly-long legs. It's worth keeping an eye out for killdeer over the next couple of months, on the chance of glimpsing the endearing infants. Precocial birds stay in the egg twice as long as altricial birds, so they have more time to develop. A one-day-old killdeer chick is actually two weeks older than a one-day-old robin nestling. Although adult robins and killdeer are the same size, a killdeer's egg is twice as big as a robin'
Both parents incubate the eggs. Young killdeer hatch from their eggs in about a month. They can run as soon as their wings are dry, and will continue to run after their parents for about a month, until they can fly. Sometimes the female starts a new nest while the male guards the first chicks. Killdeer usually keep the same mates every year.
The Wildlife Center of Texas has great success at hatching killdeer from eggs. Killdeer nest on the ground or on flat roofs. Four camouflaged colored eggs are laid and are incubated until they hatch 24 days later. Both parents tend the young until they can fly in approximately 25 days. 
Either the male or female is always at the nest protecting the eggs. Fluctuations of extreme heat or cold will damage the eggs and they will not hatch. Incubation is 3 to 4 weeks. The young work for 18 to 36 hours to escape the confines of the shell once they are fully formed. With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow proces
Newly-hatched killdeer can't fly, and they need their killdeer parents for protection and guidance, but they are a lot closer to independence than most baby birds. It takes 24 to 28 days of incubating for the chicks to hatch. Killdeer are tolerant of humans. I once observed a pair nesting in the parking lot of some public tennis courts. The female chose to lay her eggs about four inches away from the curb of the main walk. The mother bird is quite protective of her eggs. :) We found the first egg a week ago and today she had her fourth. I was just wondering how long it will take for the baby birds... show more We have a Killdeer nest in my backyard. I have been taking my 4 year old twins outside each day to check to see if they have hatched. The mother bird is quite protective of her eggs. :) We found the first egg a week ago and today she had her fourth. I was just wondering how long it will take for the baby birds to hatch
Killdeer egg hatching on a gravel bar in the Cache Creek Wilderness, Lake County, CA. We pulled out of the river and just happened to see this. After it hatched, we went back to our boats and let the mother bird tend to the new chick. 