The usual intent is to increase precipitation (rain or snow), but hail and fog suppression are also widely practiced in airports. The most common chemicals used for cloud seeding include silver iodide and dry ice (frozen carbon dioxide). The expansion of liquid propane into a gas has also been used and can produce ice crystals at warmer temperatures than silver iodide. Static cloud seeding involves spreading a chemical like silver iodide into clouds. The silver iodide provides a crystal around which moisture can condense. The moisture is already present in the clouds, but silver iodide essentially makes rain clouds more effective at dispensing their water.
'Cloud seeding' is the attempt to change the amount or type of precipitation that falls out of clouds or the structure of clouds by using certain chemicals dispersed by various means. The most common chemicals used but not limited to for cloud seeding include silver iodide and dry ice (frozen carbon dioxide). These chemicals may be dispersed by aircraft or by dispersion devices located on the ground. In our opinion cloud seeding is a voiloation of our rights. There should be no weather modification at all. The air, clouds or the atomosphere does not belong to any one country, government or for profit agency. Also, there has been no long term study as to the health effects to humans, animals and the enviorment.
(10) Some industries have learned this all too well. Obviously the cloud-after-cloud, year-after-year use of cloud seeding could lead to an insidious, cumulative effect. Especially when the same area is repeatedly seeded. If the toxicity manifests in pollution and illnesses, the effects may not be reversible. If the public is to allow the spreading of this toxic material on an experimental basis, monitoring should be required and published to protect the public health and private lands. The cloud seeding program is designed with the use of public money over private land without voter approval or landowners permission.
The most common chemicals used for cloud seeding include silver iodide, potassium iodide and dry ice (solid carbon dioxide). Liquid propane, which expands into a gas, has also been used. This can produce ice crystals at higher temperatures than silver iodide. Cloud seeding has been shown to be effective in altering cloud structure and size and in converting supercooled liquid water to ice particles. The amount of precipitation due to seeding is difficult to quantify. A key challenge is in discerning how much precipitation would have occurred had clouds not been seeded.
However, much of the literature substantiates that not only does cloud seeding fail to achieve the desired effect, it also yields harmful consequences. Some of these consequences include rain suppression, flooding, tornadoes, and silver iodide toxicity. (1,2,3). The harm of rain suppression is obvious to everyone. If the public is to allow the spreading of this toxic material on an experimental basis, monitoring should be required and published to protect the public health and private lands. The cloud seeding program is designed with the use of public money over private land without voter approval or landowners permission.
This image explaining cloud seeding shows the chemical either silver iodide or dry ice being dumped onto the cloud, which then becomes a rain shower. The process shown in the upper-right is what is happening in the cloud and the process of condensation to the introduced chemicals. Cloud seeding has been shown to be effective in altering cloud structure and size and in converting supercooled liquid water to ice particles. The amount of precipitation due to seeding is difficult to quantify. A key challenge is in discerning how much precipitation would have occurred had clouds not been seeded.
The hope is with cloud seeding is that chemicals provide a nucleus for moisture in the cloud to form around, which they hope will cause the precipitation to increase from the clouds or cause the clouds to become less dense. It is debated whether cloud seeding increases the amount of precipitation from a cloud. In our opinion cloud seeding is a voiloation of our rights. There should be no weather modification at all. The air, clouds or the atomosphere does not belong to any one country, government or for profit agency. Also, there has been no long term study as to the health effects to humans, animals and the enviorment.
According to Wikipedia, cloud seeding is; A form of w eather modification, is the attempt to change the amount or type of precipitation that falls from clouds, by dispersing substances into the air that serve as cloud condensation or ice nuclei, which alter the microphysical processes within the cloud. Static cloud seeding involves spreading a chemical like silver iodide into clouds. The silver iodide provides a crystal around which moisture can condense. The moisture is already present in the clouds, but silver iodide essentially makes rain clouds more effective at dispensing their water.
Cloud seeding chemicals may be dispersed by aircraft or by dispersion devices located on the ground (generators or canisters fired from anti-aircraft guns or rockets). For release by aircraft, silver iodide flares are ignited and dispersed as an aircraft flies through the inflow of a cloud. Cloud seeding has been shown to be effective in altering cloud structure and size and in converting supercooled liquid water to ice particles. The amount of precipitation due to seeding is difficult to quantify. A key challenge is in discerning how much precipitation would have occurred had clouds not been seeded.