The countries in Europe with French as an official language are France, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Switzerland. Of these, France is the only one with French as the only official … language. Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
Each country has a different official language. There is no specific language of the continent Europe. Here are the languages that each country in Europe speaks: Albania: Albanian (official), Greek, Vlach, Romani, Slavic directs. Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
Xatufan Tuesday, June 22, 2004, 02:30 GMT. I am not European, but English CAN'T be the official language! In Europe, English is spoken only in the UK, and the UK isn't more important than Spain, Italy or even Finland (sorry, I'm talking about EU). So many people found the answer for this problem in 1951: Interlingua. 
French is an official language in all three of the cities that are political centres of the Union: Brussels (Belgium), Strasbourg (France) and Luxembourg city (Luxembourg). Basque, Catalan, and Galician are among regional languages that are not official working languages of the EU. The number of member states exceeds the number of official languages, as several national languages are shared by two or more countries in the EU. Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, and Swedish are all official languages at the national level in multiple countries (see table above).
1 Greek is the official language of Greece and Cyprus, and there are Greek-speaking enclaves in Albania, Bulgaria, Italy, the Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Georgia, Ukraine, Lebanon, Egypt, Israel, Jordan and Turkey, and in Greek communities around the world. The Indo-European language family descended from Proto-Indo-European, believed to have been spoken thousands of years ago. Indo-European languages are spoken throughout Europe, but particularly dominate Western Europe.
To be an official language of the European Union, the language must be both an official and a working language within a member state. For example, French is the official language in France, which is a member state of the European Union, and thus it is also an official language of the EU. By contrast, there are many minority languages spoken by groups in countries throughout the EU. While these minority languages are important to those groups, they are not official and working languages of the governments of those countries; thus, they are not official languages
In the European Union, language policy is the responsibility of member states and EU does not have a common language policy; European Union institutions play a supporting role in this field, based on the principle of  subsidiarity , they promote a European dimension in the member states' language policies. The number of member states exceeds the number of official languages, as several national languages are shared by two or more countries in the EU. Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, and Swedish are all official languages at the national level in multiple countries (see table above).
Europe is a continent with about 50 individual countries. They would have their own languages, so there is no official language of Europe. Ireland is one of those countries an … d it has 2 official languages, which are the Irish language, commonly referred to as Gaelic, and English. Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
German is the official language, and the language spoken by 90%+ of the population in Germany and Austria. German is an official language, and spoken by about 60% of the pop … ulation in Switzerland. German is also a local minority language in parts of Belgium and Italy (the Suedtirol). südtirol Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
The languages of the European Union are languages used by people within the member states of the European Union. They include the twenty-four official languages of the European Union along with a range of others. The number of member states exceeds the number of official languages, as several national languages are shared by two or more countries in the EU. Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, and Swedish are all official languages at the national level in multiple countries (see table above).