Marble Arch to Bond Street. This is the less frenetic third of Oxford Street, with the glamorous Selfridges providing a shoppers’ paradise of must-see labels, pop up shops and chic refreshment areas, and slightly quieter flagship branches for high street brands like River Island. Whether you're a seasoned London shopper or about to embark on your first trip to Oxford Street, plan your shopping itinerary with our downloadable map. It highlights the three key stretches of the street, travel information and shops including Selfridges, Topshop, H&M, Primark and Forever 21.
The Zagat 2014 London Restaurants Survey has rated us London’s Most Popular Restaurant Group, as well as one of the Best-Buy Indian Restaurants, Best-Buy Child-Friendly Restaurants & Best for Group Birthdays. Masala Zone Selfridges is in the popular 4th Floor Garden Cafe Café Food. court 
On the Central line it is between Bond Street and Tottenham Court Road, on the Bakerloo line it is between Regent's Park and Piccadilly Circus, and on the Victoria line it is between Green Park and Warren Street. The station is in Travelcard Zone 1. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Oxford Circus is a London Underground station serving Oxford Circus at the junction of Regent Street and Oxford Street, with entrances on all four corners of the intersection. The station is an interchange between the Bakerloo, Central and Victoria lines
Despite all this, there are some unique selling points to the Oxford Street ‘flagship’- it is one of the few places you’ll now find good value tween brand Tammy-a saviour for fashion starved twelve year olds desperate for something on trend in their size. Whether you're a seasoned London shopper or about to embark on your first trip to Oxford Street, plan your shopping itinerary with our downloadable map. It highlights the three key stretches of the street, travel information and shops including Selfridges, Topshop, H&M, Primark and Forever 21.
For most tickets, travel through Zone 1 is more expensive than journeys of similar length not crossing this zone. The zone contains all the central London districts, most of the major tourist attractions, the major rail terminals, the City of London, and the West End.
Bike Zone is Oxford’s busy City Centre student and commuter bike shop, recently re-located into some characterful workshop buildings on St Michaels Street (just off Cornmarket Street). 
Map of Zone 1 with streets shown. London is split into six approximately concentric zones. The boundary of Zone 1 corresponds roughly with the Underground's Circle line covering the West End, the Holborn district, Kensington, Paddington and the City of London. The zone contains all the central London districts, most of the major tourist attractions, the major rail terminals, the City of London, and the West End.
Like it or not, Oxford Street is the main artery of London shopping. It’s not the place to head for independent shopping, as only massive brands can afford the rents attached to Oxford Street premises, but it is unrivalled in its offering of cheap high street shopping and jumbo department stores. Whether you're a seasoned London shopper or about to embark on your first trip to Oxford Street, plan your shopping itinerary with our downloadable map. It highlights the three key stretches of the street, travel information and shops including Selfridges, Topshop, H&M, Primark and Forever 21.
Oxford Street map. Whether you're a seasoned London shopper or about to embark on your first trip to Oxford Street, plan your shopping itinerary with our downloadable map. It highlights the three key stretches of the street, travel information and shops including Selfridges, Topshop, H&M, Primark and Forever 21.