During June the weather in South France is perhaps the best you will find anywhere else in Europe. The average temperature in South of France during February is 15oC and there are on average around 9 days during February when it rains. The tourists have returned to Northern France and back home to Europe and you have the space to enjoy the weather. The average temperature in South of France during September is 22oC and there are on average around only 6 days during September
Averages for Paris in December. Weather overview. December is one of the coldest months in Paris, France, when the weather is cold, wet and there is a small chance of snow. During this month, the average temperature begins at 5.5°C on December 1 st and drops down to 4°C by December 31 st. If you’re determined to go for a dip during your holiday, you’re best off sticking to the indoor swimming pools. The average daily humidity for Paris in December is 86%, made up of highs up to 96% and lows of 75%. In December, Paris enjoys an average of three hours of sunshine each day – that’s the same as in November
Averages for Nice in December. Weather lowdown. December is the start of winter in Nice, France, but the climate is still very pleasant for this time of year. Days are still long and are, more often than not, filled with sunshine, though there is a crisp chill in the air.
This report describes the typical weather at the Paris Le Bourget Airport (Paris, France) weather station over the course of an average December. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Paris has a mild humid temperate climate with warm summers and no dry season. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by croplands (68%), built-up areas (18%), forests (7%), and grasslands (7%).
Average temperatures for December at cities throughout France are listed below in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum monthly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. Southwestern France. The weather data below are for cities in the regions of Aquitaine and Midi-Pyrenees. Pyrénées this portion Of france ranges from The atlantic coast to The pyrenees mountains Along'france s southern. border
Chamonix and Tignes’ high elevations and year-round glaciers also make for fantastic ski conditions in December. Average Temperatures: Paris: Average high temperature of 45 degrees Fahrenheit/7 degrees Celsius. Averge low is 36 F/2 C. The city will see about 1-2 days of snow in the month. Nice: Average high temperature of 53 degrees Fahrenheit/12 degrees Celsius. 
Average temperatures for November at cities throughout France are listed below in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum monthly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. You can jump to a separate table for each corner of the country: Southeast, Southwest, Northeast and Northwest, plus Central France.
The weather in South of France is some of the most extreme in France. The climate in South of France is the hottest in France, with average summer temperatures above 30oC (80oF). The weather in South France is predominantly Mediteranean, with long hot dry summers, rainy winters, and moderate springs and autumns. The tourists have returned to Northern France and back home to Europe and you have the space to enjoy the weather. The average temperature in South of France during September is 22oC and there are on average around only 6 days during September when it rains.