Automated Clearing House (ACH) is an electronic network for financial transactions in the United States. ACH processes large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches. ACH credit transfers include direct deposit, payroll and vendor payments. ACH is a computer-based clearing and settlement facility established to process the exchange of electronic transactions between participating depository institutions. Rules and regulations that govern the ACH network are established by NACHA and the Federal Reserve.
DEFINITION of 'Automated Clearing House-ACH'. An electronic funds-transfer system run by the National Automated Clearing House Association. This payment system deals with payroll, direct deposit, tax refunds, consumer bills, tax payments and many more payment services.
Automated Clearing House (also referred to as ACH) is the network that processes electronic financial transactions in the United States. This contains large volumes of credit and debit transactions in batches from a variety of different types of organizations and businesses. 
ACH, or Automated Clearing House, is an electronic network that processes credit and debit transactions. These includes transactions in both the public and private sector. ACH facilitates the electronic transfer of funds, in the form of payments and deposits, from the account of one party to the other. Direct Deposit. A direct deposit occurs when an employer or other payer electronically deposits funds into a bank account using the ACH system. The deposit is for a specific sum of money. This is known as a credit to the account, as opposed to a debit, which is a removal of funds from the account.
ACH Payments. Handle your business payables efficiently with Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments services from Chase. It’s a secure, fast and convenient way to pay your vendors, schedule cash disbursements and even pay individuals through Direct Deposit. 1  Add payees one at a time or upload a list of payees. 
An ACH is an electronic fund transfer made between banks and credit unions across what is called the Automated Clearing House network. ACH is used for all kinds of fund transfer transactions, including direct deposit of paychecks and monthly debits for routine payments. Merchants often enable consumers to pay bills via ACH by providing an account number and bank routing number.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. An Automated Clearing House (ACH) deposit is an electronic transfer of funds using the Automated Clearing House. The Automated Clearing House is a secure network in the United States through which banks and other financial institutions can transmit electronic transactions. An ACH deposit means that funds are electronically deposited into an account. This means there is no need for a person to write a check and no one has to visit a bank to complete the transaction. To understand how an ACH deposit works, it may help to consider an example.
The Payflow ACH (Automated Clearing House) Payment Service enables you to electronically collect payments from your customers for either single-entry or recurring payments by directly debiting your customer's checking or saving accounts. On the Internet, ACH is primarily used for person-to-person (P2P), business-to-customer (B2C), and business-to-business (B2B) payments. Following are the benefits of ACH Payments. Provide your customers with an alternative to credit cards and checks.