Dental cavities are permanently damaged areas that often develop into holes in the enamel, or hard outer surface, of your teeth. Cavities are also known as tooth decay or caries. Anyone with teeth can get a cavity, but they are most common in small children and young adults.
Cavities, also referred to as tooth decay or caries, are holes in the teeth. Cavities are the second-most common health disorder in the United States, according to the National Institutes of Health (the first is the common cold) and a very common disorder worldwide.
1 The acids in plaque remove minerals in your tooth's hard, outer enamel. 2  This erosion causes tiny openings or holes in the enamel — the first stage of cavities. 3  Once areas of enamel are worn away, the bacteria and acid can reach the next layer of your teeth, called dentin.
1 This erosion causes tiny openings or holes in the enamel — the first stage of cavities. 2  Once areas of enamel are worn away, the bacteria and acid can reach the next layer of your teeth, called dentin. 3  This layer is softer than enamel and less resistant to acid.
If it is not removed, tooth decay will begin. The acids in plaque damage the enamel covering your teeth, and create holes in the tooth (cavities). Cavities usually do not hurt, unless they grow very large and affect nerves or cause a tooth fracture. An untreated cavity can lead to a tooth abscess.
Tooth decay is a common disorder, second only to the common cold. It usually occurs in children and young adults, but can affect any person. Tooth decay is a common cause of tooth loss in younger people. Bacteria are normally found in your mouth.
Once the decay breaks through the enamel to cause a cavity, the damage is permanent. A dentist must clean out the decay and fill the cavity. Left untreated, the decay will get worse. It can destroy a tooth all the way through the enamel, through the inside dentin layer and down to the pulp or nerve of the tooth.
Cavities are what you get from tooth decay -- damage to the tooth. Tooth decay can affect both the outer coating of a tooth (called enamel) and the inner layer (called dentin).
Causes. Cavities are caused by tooth decay — a process that occurs over time. Here's how tooth decay develops: 1  Plaque forms. 2  Your mouth naturally contains many types of bacteria. 3  Some thrive on food and drinks that contain certain forms of sugar.