Some think of a vinegaroon as a spider because it looks like it has eight legs, but the front two legs are used like their tail is used because of the creature’s poor eyesight. Where the bite occurs is from the pinching mouth parts, which aren’t fangs, and this can be painful.
Thelyphonida is made up of the vinegaroon's [also commonly know as the whip scorpion because of their whip like tail, and pincers in the front that resemble their relative, the scorpion.] They are not poisonous animals, so while a bite might pinch a bit, it is not deadly.
It is a myth that if you are bitten by a vinegaroon everything will taste like vinegar. Vingaroons get their name from their unusual defense mechanism when they are disturbed. Vinegaroons have glands around the end of their abdomen that can spray a combination of acetic acid and octanoic acid.
A vinagarroon is an arachnid. Vinegaroon's are not spiders. They are related to spiders and belong to the class Arachnida, but have their own order called: Thelyphonida. (Spiders are in the order Aranaeae).
Getting a vinegaroon bite might not be the most pleasant experience you ever have in life, but you don’t have to worry. Their bites are not poisonous. You would actually experience more discomfort by being sprayed in the eyes with their self-defense spray then you would with a bite.
. . actually, a vinegaroon isn´t something you eat, it´s an arachnid! Vinegaroons are also called “whip scorpions” because of their whip-like tail. Unlike scorpions, the vinegaroon doesn´t sting; it just shoots acid at you that smells like vinegar, hence the name vinegaroon.
It’s often said that the darker a place is, the more the vinegaroon is going to like it. If you were out in the desert in the SW United States and happened to put a body part somewhere that was dark and hidden and felt pain, then there is the possibility that you experienced a vinegaroon bite.
The vinegaroon is nocturnal and has poor vision. The whiplike tail is used as a sensory organ, as is the first pair of legs, which is not used for walking. Although its tail in unable to sting, this creature can spray an acidic mist from a scent gland at the base of the tail when disturbed.