1 dilation and curettage (D&C) – a procedure that scrapes tissue from the endometrium for biopsy. 2  D&C may be done if: 3  The result of the endometrial biopsy is inconclusive or indicates endometrial hyperplasia. 4  The sample from the endometrial biopsy was too small to make a definitive diagnosis. 1 This procedure is as accurate in detecting endometrial cancer as more invasive tests. 2  dilation and curettage (D&C) – a procedure that scrapes tissue from the endometrium for biopsy. 3  D&C may be done if: 4
An endometrial biopsy is a procedure done to take a small tissue sample from the lining of the uterus, called the endometrium. The tissue is then examined under a microscope for abnormal cells, or the effects of hormones on the endometrium. Click Image to Enlarge. An endometrial biopsy may also be used to check the effects of hormone therapy or to check for abnormal cells or cancer. Endometrial cancer is the most common cancer of the female reproductive organs.
Guide. An endometrial biopsy is a way for your doctor to take a small sample of the lining of the uterus (endometrium). The sample is looked at under a microscope for abnormal cells. An endometrial biopsy helps your doctor find problems in the endometrium. There are several ways to do an endometrial biopsy. Your doctor may use: 1  A soft device shaped like a straw (pipette) to suction a small sample of lining from the uterus. 2  This method is fast and may cause some cramping. 3  An electronic suction device (Vabra aspiration). 4  This method can be uncomfortable.
An endometrial biopsy is done to: 1  Check for cancer of the uterus. 2  Find the cause of heavy, prolonged, or irregular uterine bleeding. 3  See whether the lining of the uterus (endometrium) is going through the normal menstrual cycle changes. There are several ways to do an endometrial biopsy. Your doctor may use: 1  A soft device shaped like a straw (pipette) to suction a small sample of lining from the uterus. 2  This method is fast and may cause some cramping. 3  An electronic suction device (Vabra aspiration). 4  This method can be uncomfortable.
You may need an endometrial biopsy if you have abnormal menstrual bleeding, bleeding after menopause, or absence of uterine bleeding. Biopsy results may show cell changes related to hormone levels, or the presence of abnormal tissues, such as fibroids or polyps, which can lead to abnormal bleeding. An endometrial biopsy may also be used to check the effects of hormone therapy or to check for abnormal cells or cancer. Endometrial cancer is the most common cancer of the female reproductive organs.
The endometrium can indicate cell changes in response to hormone levels, as well as, any abnormal tissue such as fibroids. Taking a small sample, called a biopsy, of endometrial tissue can help diagnose certain medical conditions. It can also be used to check for uterine infections. An endometrial biopsy is a short procedure, typically only taking about 10 minutes. It can be performed in the doctor’s office without the use of anesthesia.
Endometrial biopsy is useful in the work-up of abnormal uterine bleeding, cancer screening, endometrial dating and infertility evaluation. Contraindications to the procedure include pregnancy, acute pelvic inflammatory disease, and acute cervical or vaginal infections. The technique is fairly easy to learn and may be performed without assistance. The biopsy is obtained through the use of an endometrial suction catheter that is inserted through the cervix into the uterine cavity. Twirling the catheter while moving it in and out of the uterine cavity enhances uptake of uterine tissue, which is aspirated into the catheter and removed