Garuda Pancasila, Coat of Arms of the Republic of Indonesia. Republic of Indonesia, or Indonesia in short, is an archipelago country located in South East Asia. To the north, it is bordered by Malaysia, Sultanate of Brunei, Republic of Singapore, and Republic of the Philippines. 
Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of i … slands often called Nusantara in Indonesian. 3 people found this useful. Indonesia is not physically part of any continent. It is an archipelago (a group of islands) between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Geographically, it is included in … the region of southeastern Asia
Indonesia is an archipelagic island country in Southeast Asia, lying between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. It is in a strategic location astride or along major sea lanes from Indian Ocean to Pacific Ocean. Indonesia has no territory in mainland Asia, but the closest mainland country is Malaysia, who has claims on the mainland, the Malay Peninsula.
Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of i … slands often called Nusantara in Indonesian. + 33 others found this useful. Indonesia is not physically part of any continent. It is an archipelago (a group of islands) between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Geographically, it is included in … the region of southeastern Asia
No. There are only seven continents and they are North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Antarctica, and Australia. Indonesia is NOT a continent but part of Asia. Indonesia is not physically part of any continent. It is an archipelago (a group of islands) between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Geographically, it is included in … the region of southeastern
Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of i … slands often called Nusantara in Indonesian. No. There are only seven continents and they are North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Antarctica, and Australia. Indonesia is NOT a continent but part of Asia. 16 people found this useful.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of islands often called Nusantara in Indonesian. No. There are only seven continents and they are North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Antarctica, and Australia. Indonesia is NOT a continent but part of Asia. 16 people found this useful.
Indonesia is a country with a large population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Indonesia include Brunei, Singapore, Christmas Island and Malaysia. Its biggest cities and towns include Jakarta, Surabaya, Medan and Bandung. 