Allotments will never disburse on the 15th of the month. Example: If you start an allotment for $400, the system will take $200 from your mid-month pay and hold it until the other $200 is taken out of your end-of-month pay. The total $400 will disburse to the designated account on the 1st of the following month.
Hide Post. They don't hold your pay for 60 days. Some times the reason why it take so long to get your final paycheck its becuase of the work load in the finance office. Right now we are in a stage where a lot of Soldiers are getting out and that means that the work load gets heavy.
I am medically retired from the Army. I have been on leave and PTDY. (leave from 5/2-5/7, PTDY 5/7-5/27) My effective retirement date is 5/27. I just found out that i am being audited and that supposedly there is a no pay due for the EOM pay b/c of the audit.
The time it takes to receive final payment varies, based on when the Marine's 11060 is received by Disbursing. All final settlement pay will be issued by EFT. Marines are instructed during their pre-separations brief to keep their current direct deposit bank account open for a minimum of 6 months after separation.
The time it takes to receive final payment varies, based on when the Marine’s 11060 is received by Disbursing. All final settlement pay will be issued by EFT. Marines are instructed during their pre-separations brief to keep their current direct deposit bank account open for a minimum of 6 months after separation.
The recruitment process takes as long as you want it to, typically for the Army it will vary based on the person, on average it takes about 7-14 days from the initial. If you … have medical issues, testing issues, law violations or are dragging your feet it will take longer.
I got back within a month…. shouldn’t take long…. I got off Aug 2011, and I got it about 15 days later :). partyrock (3870) “Great Answer” (1) Flag as… ¶. You will probably get your final pay at the end of December. I am guessing you just missed the lead time needed to cut your check in November.
Your local PSD will do the AUDIT. Normally it takes 8 days to finish. Mine took 9 days. Now if your local PSD does not finish the audit within 20 days DFAS then takes over and does it.