According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the mean annual wage for elementary school teachers in 2014 was $56,830, with the top 10 percent of earners making $83,910 and the bottom ten percent earning $36,040. 1 This would be necessary for those who have a bachelor's degree, but not the necessary number of education credits. 2  These programs typically take a year, and allow college graduates to gain elementary school classroom experience while combining education theory with practice. 3  Become a student-teacher.
The length of time it takes to become a teacher can vary, but there are some commonalities. For example, all states require at least a bachelor of arts or a bachelor of science degree. Most education requirements have increased over time and standards are set by the individual states. 
1 All states require elementary school teachers to have at least a bachelor's degree, with a certain number of education credits. 2  Many future teachers get a degree in elementary education, and some states also require that you major in a content area, such as math or science. 1 This would be necessary for those who have a bachelor's degree, but not the necessary number of education credits. 2  These programs typically take a year, and allow college graduates to gain elementary school classroom experience while combining education theory with practice. 3  Become a student-teacher.
The most basic college degree to become a school teacher is called a Bachelor Degree. It usually takes 4 years to complete a Bachelor's Degree in Education. My sister completed a Bachelor's Degree in Physical Education at Florida State University in about 4 years in 1968. you need at least four years of college to become a elementary teacher   and if you want to become a junior high teacher or a high school teacher   you need eight … years of college or a higher degree in education.
To become an elementary school teacher, you have to complete a 4-year bachelor's degree program at an accredited college. During that time, you will complete several weeks of student teaching. you need at least four years of college to become a elementary teacher   and if you want to become a junior high teacher or a high school teacher   you need eight … years of college or a higher degree in education.
2. Pass a Subject Area Examination in elementary education if in the U.S. If you want to teach a specific subject to elementary school students, such as Art or a foreign language, you may also take a different Subject Area Examination for that subject. 1 Spend at least 30 semester hours learning necessary educational content for Florida elementary school teachers. 2  Examples are learning the methods and content for teaching writing, science and math to elementary school students.
Elem. teachers take a multiple subject curriculum test, basic competency tests in English and math, and cultural tests. (ESL/SAID) If you want to teach a secondary subject, such as science, you need to take a single-subject test instead of a mult. subject test. A BA takes 4 years. However, you will take a little bit of everything about elementary ed. Even with the degree you must pass the teacher's exam (praxis) to get your teaching license. Typically, that takes four years, but if you go year round, you could finish earlier.
1 Earn a bachelor's degree. 2  All states require elementary school teachers to have at least a bachelor's degree, with a certain number of education credits. 3  Many future teachers get a degree in elementary education, and some states also require that you major in a content area, such as math or science. 1 This would be necessary for those who have a bachelor's degree, but not the necessary number of education credits. 2  These programs typically take a year, and allow college graduates to gain elementary school classroom experience while combining education theory with practice. 3  Become a student-teacher.
It's also a career with solid growth potential. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, elementary school teachers should see about 12 percent career growth nationwide for the decade between 2012 and 2022, which is slightly faster than the average for all U.S. occupations. While this number can vary state-by-state and also depending on the years of experience, the national mean annual wage for elementary teachers in 2013 was $56,320, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics The five states with the highest mean annual wage in 2013 were: 1  Rhode Island: $73,040.
In all states, elementary school teachers who teach in public schools must have a minimum of a bachelor's degree in elementary education and might be required to have majored in a specific content area, such as English or math. Learn how to become an elementary school teacher. Research the job description and the education and licensing requirements, and find out how to start a career in the elementary education field.