Near ovulation, however, this changes a bit. Your LH levels will surge just before you ovulate. For most women, the LH surge will come somewhere between 12 and 48 hours before she actually starts to ovulate. The average time from the start of the LH surge until ovulation is somewhere around 36 hours. 
You can also begin testing for pregnancy as early as 7-10 days past your ovulation date with an Early Detection Pregnancy Test. If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle. The journey then begins all over again. The second half of the cycle is called the luteal phase and is from the day of ovulation until the next period begins. The luteal phase has a more precise timeline and usually is only 12-16 days from the day of ovulation. This ultimately means that the day of ovulation will determine how long your cycle is
These peak fertile days are the day prior to ovulation and the day that ovulation takes place. 2. Studies show that a surge in LH levels occurs 24-36 hours prior to ovulation, 2 and that this LH surge is an accurate and reliable marker of impending ovulation. The Clearblue Ovulation Test is a traditional ovulation test which is an accurate method to identify the LH surge day and improve a woman's chances of conceiving. This content is provided for general information purposes only. Always read package insert of product before use.
Many couples rely on ovulation predictor kits, or OPKs, to identify when the woman is most fertile. OPKs can detect a surge in the production of luteinizing hormone (LH), which occurs roughly 36 hours before ovulation. 
Get yours free today! Most people will ovulate 12-48 hours after the LH surge is detected, most common is 36 hours after the actual surge. One should get a bit more notice, 24-48 hours, by ovulation testing in the afternoon. It's best to have intercourse the day of the LH surge and the two days after. Also consider insurance sex for one more day in case you ovulate late.
1 The so–called LH surge causes the release of the egg from the ovary and you‘re ovulating. 2  Ovulation normally occurs 24 to 36 hours after the LH surge, which is why LH is a good predictor for peak fertility. 1 These high estrogen levels trigger a sudden increase in another hormone called LH (Luteinizing Hormone). 2  The so–called LH surge causes the release of the egg from the ovary and you‘re ovulating. 3
LH surge to ovulate: Ovulation happens approximately 36 hours after the LH surge. Serum estrogen levels reach a peak about 24 hours before this occurs and come down dramatically afterwards. In most women. .We know from in vitro fertilization ovulation occurs somewhere between 36 to 48 hours after the lh surge. It is best to have relations with your partner the day of your lh surge and the next day. We know that it is best if sperm are there before ovulation.
A luteinizing hormone (LH) is then released, referred to as your LH surge. The LH surge causes the egg to burst through the ovary wall within 24-36 hours and begin its journey down the fallopian tube for fertilization. Ovulation Predictor Kits (OPKs) work by detecting this LH surge. The second half of the cycle is called the luteal phase and is from the day of ovulation until the next period begins. The luteal phase has a more precise timeline and usually is only 12-16 days from the day of ovulation. This ultimately means that the day of ovulation will determine how long your cycle is
OPK detects LH Surge, which in most cases occurs 12-36 hours BEFORE ovulation....if you got your OPK at 8.45 am yesterday morning, you could expect to ovulate anywhere between yesterday evening to tonight! 