The IUCN's Red List of Threatened Species categorizes giant pandas as endangered. This is an improvement. In the 1980s, giant pandas were listed as rare by the IUCN. As of 2008, when the most recent assessment was made, there was little doubt that there were less than 2,500 mature giant pandas in the wild. Giant pandas are bears that are native to China, where they are considered a national treasure. Even with this exalted status, giant pandas are endangered: only about 1,600 live in the wild, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). About 100 live in zoos around the wor
Ailuropoda melanoleuca. As China’s unofficial mascot and the symbol of the World Wildlife Fund, the giant panda is one of the most beloved animals in the world. It is also one of the more endangered species in the world, with only about 1000-2000 living in the wild. Due to the fact that pandas reproduce so infrequently, it is very difficult for their population to recover from such a low point. Giant pandas are currently classified on IUCN’s Red List as an endangered species. One the main reasons that pandas have become endangered is habitat destruction. As the population in China continues to grow, pandas’ habitat gets taken over by development, pushing them into smaller and less livable areas
Let us discover why are pandas endangered. With its cuddly appearance and peaceful nature, pandas are one of the world’s beloved animals. A decade ago, giant pandas were plentiful all throughout Asia specifically in China. 
The giant panda is listed as endangered in the World Conservation Union's (IUCN's) Red List of Threatened Species. There are about 1,600 left in the wild. More than 300 pandas live in zoos and breeding centers around the world, mostly in China. Geographic Distribution: Giant pandas live in a few mountain ranges in central China, in Sichuan, Shaanxi, and Gansu provinces. They once lived in lowland areas, but farming, forest clearing, and other development now restrict giant pandas to the mountains.
The giant panda is a conservation reliant endangered species. A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country. As of December 2014, 49 giant pandas live in captivity outside China, living in 18 zoos in 13 different countries. 
Answer by Hannah Kirby. Confidence votes 15. Giant Pandas are endangered due to poaching and deforestation. Also, they are becoming endangered because there is a shortage of bamboo, and their habitat has become fragmented, making breeding difficult, and travel between bamboo forests almost impossible. They are also listed on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, … Endangered Species List as endangered. Finally, the Giant Panda is protected by CITES, Appendix I and III. For more details, please see sites listed below.
They only live in the forests of China. The Giant Pandas' favorite food is bamboo. Sometimes they also eat small animals and insects, as well as fruits. Giant Pandas are part of the bear family. When awake, they are almost always eating bamboo. Find out more about the Giant Panda! Farms and houses are being built, and the forests are in trouble. In China, the Giant Pandas' home, the number of people is growing. Homes and farms are being built here and there in the forests, and the places where they live are being split apart. Now they live in small groups in many small forests, and it's very hard for male pandas to find mates