Split and merge into it. Answer by Helloover. Confidence votes 30. The plantain (pronounced [plaentɪn] plæntɪn [or][plaentɛɪn]) plæntɛɪn 1 is a species of The genus musa and is generally used, for cooking in contrast to, the soft (sweet banana which is sometimes called the). dessert banana
In a large (12-inch) saute pan, heat oil to 325 degrees F. Peel plantains and slice crosswise into 1-inch pieces. Carefully add plantains to oil and fry until golden yellow in color, about 1 to 1 1/2 minutes per side. (The oil should come halfway up the side of the plantain). With a spider or slotted spoon, remove the plantains from the pan and place them on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper, standing them on their end
Mofongo is generally made from fried green plantains (although fried yuca or breadfruit are possible) which is mashed together with broth, garlic, olive oil, and pork cracklings or bits of bacon. Mofongo is a fried plantain-based dish from the island of Puerto Rico. Similar dishes known as fufu de platano plátano In cuban cuisine And mangu mangú In The. Dominican republic both are made by boiling plantain and then. mashing them
In the southern United States, particularly in Texas, Louisiana and Florida, plantains are most often grilled. In Nigeria, plantain is eaten boiled, fried or roasted; roasted plantain, called boli is usually eaten with palm oil or groundnut. Tostones (also known as banana peze in Haiti, tachinos or chatinos in Cuba, platanos verdes fritos or fritos verdes in the Dominican Republic and patacones in Nicaragua, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Panama, Peru and Venezuela) are twice-fried plantain patties, often served as a side, appetizer, or snack.
1 A Simple, Fried Plantain Treat Plantains look very much like bananas and even come from the banana family, but plantains do not taste the same as a banana. 
Today, plantain is popular and eaten boiled or baked or fried or mashed in many parts of the world today like Florida, Spain, Mexico, Portugal, Japan, Malaysia, Egypt, Nigeria, Ghana, Brazil, to mention but a few places. What a history of its world tour! Now let’s leave the issue of the history of plantain alone. Plantain and banana trade along with yam and other food crops became a very important factor in the wealth, prosperity and rapid expansion of the Bantu Kingdom of central and southern Africa around 1500 AD.
Plantains can be used for cooking at any stage of ripeness, and ripe plantain can be eaten raw. As the plantain ripens, it becomes sweeter and its colour changes from green to yellow to black, just like bananas. Tostones (also known as banana peze in Haiti, tachinos or chatinos in Cuba, platanos verdes fritos or fritos verdes in the Dominican Republic and patacones in Nicaragua, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Panama, Peru and Venezuela) are twice-fried plantain patties, often served as a side, appetizer, or snack.
Plantain is popular in West Africa, especially Cameroon, Benin, Bénin ghana And; nigeria when ripe plantain is, fried it is generally called (dodo – dough). Dough the ripe plantain is usually sliced diagonally for a large oval, shape then fried in oil to a golden brown. color Tostones (also known as banana peze in Haiti, tachinos or chatinos in Cuba, platanos verdes fritos or fritos verdes in the Dominican Republic and patacones in Nicaragua, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Panama, Peru and Venezuela) are twice-fried plantain patties, often served as a side, appetizer, or snack.
Roasted plantain sellers in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. Fried plantain is a dish cooked wherever plantains grow, from Central America through West Africa to East Africa, and in many parts of Southeast Asia such as Indonesia, where fried snacks (called gorengan) are widely popular. It is called alloco in Cote côte'D ivoire and dodo In. nigeria 
A plantain, or cooking plantain, (/ˈplaentɨn/ , ˈPLæNTɨN /us/ , PLAENˈTEɪN /plænˈteɪn/) uk ˈplɑːntɨn is one of the less sweet (cultivated) varieties cultivars of The genus musa whose fruit is also known as. the banana Tostones (also known as banana peze in Haiti, tachinos or chatinos in Cuba, platanos verdes fritos or fritos verdes in the Dominican Republic and patacones in Nicaragua, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Panama, Peru and Venezuela) are twice-fried plantain patties, often served as a side, appetizer, or snack.