Historically, the most common material for the tubes of a bicycle frame has been steel. Steel frames can be made of varying grades of steel, from very inexpensive carbon steel to more costly and higher quality chromium molybdenum steel alloys. Frame size was traditionally measured along the seat tube from the center of the bottom bracket to the center of the top tube. Typical medium sizes are 54 or 56 cm (approximately 21.2 or 22 inches) for a European men's racing bicycle or 46 cm (about 18.5 inches) for a men's mountain bicycle.
While it's true that a steel bike can be very heavy, I've also shown that an aluminum bicycle can be very heavy as well. What it boils down to is cost. A cheap bike is heavy no matter what it's made of. Steel bicycle frames can be as light as a $4,000 carbon fiber frame, and lighter than a $4,000 ti frame. Steel technology has evolved just like carbon, aluminum and ti has.
Alloy. Specialized Allez – one of the best selling alloy bike on the market. Alloy is bicycle business shorthand for aluminium alloy. An alloy is a solid solution made of metal, and another element – the metal in this case being aluminium. A high proportion of bikes are made of aluminium alloy – it’s an easy material to manipulate into an efficient shape, and it’s the cheapest way to make a relatively light bike. At the very core of every bicycle, there is a frame. The material that frame is made out of has a dramatic effect on the way it rides, its durability, and cost. Every frame tells a story, so we’ve delved into some of the rationale, motivations, and infatuations behind bicycle builders decisions….
Four popular bicycle frame materials are steel, aluminum, titanium and carbon fiber. Beryllium, Metal Matrix Composites and other materials have so far demonstrated limited practicality in bicycle frames. Mysterious and seemingly miraculous beryllium is one-third the weight of aluminum and six times as stiff as steel. This is another reason to look for metal frame parts (such as dropouts) that are made of titanium rather than aluminum if you are shopping for a carbon fiber bike. Discontinuity of materials can create stress-risers where the carbon fiber meets the other material. The stress-risers can lead to failure.
The Velocipede, made with wooden wheels and an iron frame and tires, won the nickname of the boneshaker.. The 1860s proved to be an important decade for bicycle improvements with the inventions of ball-bearing hubs, metal-spoked wheels, solid rubber tires, and a lever-operated, four-speed gearshift. Around 1866 an unusual version of the Velocipede was created in England by James Stanley. During the 1890s bicycles became very popular, and the basic elements of the modern bicycle were already in place. In the first half of the 20th century, stronger steel alloys allowed thinner frame tubing which made the bicycles lighter and faster. Derailleur gears were also developed, allowing smoother riding.
The Safety had equally sized wheels made of solid rubber, a chain-driven rear wheel, and diamond-shaped frame. Other important developments in the 1800s included the use of John Boyd Dunlop's pneumatic tires, which had air-filled inner tubes that provided shock absorption. During the 1890s bicycles became very popular, and the basic elements of the modern bicycle were already in place. In the first half of the 20th century, stronger steel alloys allowed thinner frame tubing which made the bicycles lighter and faster. Derailleur gears were also developed, allowing smoother riding.
Bicycle Frames are made from a number of metals and carbon composites. some materials as follows: 1. Steel Frame Bicycles Strong, Stiff and comfortable, Alluminium Frames Light, Stiff and comfortable, Titaninium Bike Frames strong very light and comfortable, carbon framesets ultra light, stiff and comfortable. The cheapest metal used is would be a high tensile carbon steel. Better steel bicycles are made of chromoly steel, which is an alloy of steel with chromium and molybdenum. This alloy makes the steel stronger and harder than cheaper steels. Steel frames can also have butted tubes.
Titanium. Titanium is the ideal metal for recumbent bicycle frame construction. A recumbent frame made of titanium can be slightly lighter than steel yet provide even more strength, resiliency and fatigue life than steel. This is another reason to look for metal frame parts (such as dropouts) that are made of titanium rather than aluminum if you are shopping for a carbon fiber bike. Discontinuity of materials can create stress-risers where the carbon fiber meets the other material. The stress-risers can lead to failure.
The rider is suspended on a metal frame between two wheels of equal size. A chain drive mechanism connects the pedals to the rear wheel. The stability and comfort of the design was superior to the high-wheelers, and so earned the safety its name. Click on the image to view a QuickTime clip (3.1 megabytes). 
And there are carbon fiber bikes too. Different metals are used for different bicycle frames. The cheapest metal used is would be a high tensile carbon steel. Better steel bicycles are made of chromoly steel, which is an alloy of steel with chromium and molybdenum. This alloy makes the steel stronger and harder than cheaper steels. Steel frames can also have butted tubes.