Find Ayad meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Ayad name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Ayad.
Urdu Wire brings an assorted collection of Muslim names for both boys and girls with their literal meaning placed in front. Urdu wire helps muslim users to get acquainted with the meanings of their names as well as pick up new names for new born Muslim child.
List of Farsi baby names, Farsi baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Farsi names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Farsi baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Ayad in Farsi origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details.
Meaning of Ayad. Ayad, is an indirect Quranic name. Pronounced as (U)ltimate + (YA)r(D), it is the plural of Ayd (hands, power, blessings), which itself is the plural of Yad (hand, blessing). It means a person’s power and ability to do things, and also the good things and blessings that one has gained due to their own work.
(Quran 51:47). Ayad, is an indirect Quranic name. Pronounced as (U)ltimate + (YA)r(D), it is the plural of Ayd (hands, power, blessings), which itself is the plural of Yad (hand, blessing). It means a person’s power and ability to do things, and also the good things and blessings that one has gained due to their own work.
Meaning of Ayyad. Ayyad is an indirect Quranic name for boys that means “able strengthener”, a person who is powerful and adds strength to others. It is derived from the Y-D-Y root which is mentioned in many places in the Quran, such as 38:17: Bear with their words patiently.
A Muslim child where ever born, and a person embracing Islam, used to be called in a new name, probably in Arabic. Names of prophets, names combined with Asmaul Husna (Names of God), names from history, and the traditional or modern names are being used in this regard.