A purge valve is the part of the vehicle Evaporative Emission Control (EVAP). system. The EVAP system prevents fuel vapors in the fuel tank from escaping into the atmosphere. The purge valve precisely controls the amount of fuel vapor that is purged from the charcoal canister. In modern cars, the purge valve is an electrically-operated solenoid, that is controlled by the engine computer. When the engine is off, the purge valve is closed.
As you may expect, things can go wrong with the EVAP system, too. If the canister fails to purge or does so under the wrong conditions, it can hamper the performance and emissions of your vehicle. When this happens, you may find that the entire system needs to be replaced. The computer tells the valves when to purge the canister of vapors. This typically happens when the car is in motion, rather than at idle. It's just one example of some of the behind-the-scenes technology that you'll likely never see or feel.
The evaporative emission (EVAP) control system limits the fuel vapors from escaping into the atmosphere. The EVAP transfers the fuel vapors from the sealed fuel tank to an activated carbon storage device, the EVAP canister. The EVAP canister stores the vapors until the engine is able to use the extra fuel vapor. When the engine is able to use the extra fuel vapor, the intake air flow purges the fuel vapor from the carbon element and then the normal combustion process consumes the fuel vapor. EVAP Vent Valve. The evaporative canister vent valve not only allows the fresh outside air to the EVAP canister during the purge modes, but also allows the diagnostic to pull a vacuum on the fuel tank by closing the vent valve.
The EVAP CVCV is located on the EVAP canister (underneath the vehicle near the left rear tire) and is used to seal the canister vent. It has one hose connection and one two-wire electrical connector. The solenoid in the EVAP CVCV responds to signals from the ECM. The canister contains charcoal granules which adsorb gasoline vapor and store them temporarily until the engine intake manifold vacuum draws them off. A malfunction of the EVAP system is unlikely to cause the high fuel consumption you report. However, it may be a useful clue pointing to a fuel leak.
DTC 0309. Diagnostic Trouble Code 0309 points to a problem with the EVAP Canister Vent Control Valve. EVAP = EVAPorative emissions control system. This is the system which seeks to minimize air pollution which results from evaporation (as opposed to incomplete combustion) of gasoline. The canister contains charcoal granules which adsorb gasoline vapor and store them temporarily until the engine intake manifold vacuum draws them off. A malfunction of the EVAP system is unlikely to cause the high fuel consumption you report. However, it may be a useful clue pointing to a fuel leak.
The EVAP system consists of a charcoal-filled canister and the lines connecting the canister to the fuel tank, ported vacuum and intake manifold vacuum. The canister contains charcoal granules which adsorb gasoline vapor and store them temporarily until the engine intake manifold vacuum draws them off. A malfunction of the EVAP system is unlikely to cause the high fuel consumption you report. However, it may be a useful clue pointing to a fuel leak.
A typical system consists of a small canister full of charcoal, valves, hoses, vents in the fuel lines and a sealed fuel tank cap. When fuel evaporates inside the gas tank, the excess vapors are transferred to the charcoal canister. The computer tells the valves when to purge the canister of vapors. This typically happens when the car is in motion, rather than at idle. It's just one example of some of the behind-the-scenes technology that you'll likely never see or feel.
An evaporative canister is part of the evaporative system that is within the emission system. Answer by Bclear. Confidence votes 2.0K. An evaporative canister is part of the evaporative system that is within the emission system. Hydrocarbons are a form of pollution that gasoline releases as it evaporates or after is is burned. While fuel is stored inside the tank, fumes build up and are retained inside this canister
EVAP Canister Purge Valve. When energized, the evaporative canister purge valve allows the fuel vapor to flow from the EVAP canister to the engine. The normally closed valve is pulse width modulated by the PCM in order to precisely control the vapor flow. EVAP Vent Valve. The evaporative canister vent valve not only allows the fresh outside air to the EVAP canister during the purge modes, but also allows the diagnostic to pull a vacuum on the fuel tank by closing the vent valve.