You can be as old as you want but you have to be at least 16 or older to workout at a gym like the world gym in Fayette and peachtree city. 4 people found this useful. Most states and cities require you to be at least 14 to get a work permit and to have a job. Kids are allowed to work in family businesses and farms. And even then the t … ypes of jobs and hours are restricted. You will have to check the laws for your state
Foot Locker is a leading global athletic footwear and apparel retailer. Its stores offer the latest in athletic-inspired performance products, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker offers products for a wide variety of activities including basketball, running, and training. Bring completed Foot Locker Stores Application Form. to your nearest store or search for a job and apply online by visiting each career page as listed below. For a complete information you may visit Foot Locker Career Page. 1  Foot Locker. 2  Footaction. 3  Lady Foot Locker. 4  Kids
Best Answer: you can work at footaction but you need your mom or dad to tell them its all good or work at wallmart pushing carts. 1 You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 2  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 3  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 4  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
There is an option to attach your resume when you fill out the Footaction job application online. As with any job, it is a good strategy to call a couple days after the interview. Not only does this express interest in the position and a desire to work, but it will help reestablish a connection with the interviewer. Sales leads that have been promoted from sales associates will make more money than a newly hired sales lead. The average wage for a sales lead is also around $9/hr. Assistant store managers make, in the ballpark of, $25,000 to $30,000 a year.
Age Requirement. Generally you must be at least 18 years old to work at Foot Locker. If you are under 18, you may be asked to provide a work permit prior to starting. This may also vary according to each state labor law. Bring completed Foot Locker Stores Application Form. to your nearest store or search for a job and apply online by visiting each career page as listed below. For a complete information you may visit Foot Locker Career Page. 1  Foot Locker. 2  Footaction. 3  Lady Foot Locker. 4  Kids
How old do you have to be to work in old folks home? you have to be at least 10 if you are a girl and 14 if you are a boy. Most states and cities require you to be at least 14 to get a work permit and to have a job. Kids are allowed to work in family businesses and farms. And even then the t … ypes of jobs and hours are restricted. You will have to check the laws for your state
1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 2  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 3  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 4
How old do you have to be to work at footaction? because im about to be 15 and wanna work there in houston texas where north line mall was. 1 You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 2  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 3  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 4  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
Answer     if you have a workers permit you can work at some places at 15 and 1/2   i think mc donalds will hire you at 15     but mostly you must be … sixteen to work. 68 people found this useful. usually 18. Most states and cities require you to be at least 14 to get a work permit and to have a job. Kids are allowed to work in family businesses and farms. And even then the t … ypes of jobs and hours are restricted. You will have to check the laws for your state