Beans and other legumes: Cooking tips. This guide describes common types of beans and legumes, tips for preparing them, and ways to add more legumes to your meals and snacks. Legumes — a class of vegetables that includes beans, peas and lentils — are among the most versatile and nutritious foods available. Legumes are typically low in fat, contain no cholesterol, and are high in folate, potassium, iron and magnesium. They also contain beneficial fats and soluble and insoluble fiber. 
A legume (/ˈlɛɡjuːm/ or /ˌləˈɡjuːm/) is a plant in the family Fabaceae (or Leguminosae), or the fruit or seed of such a plant. Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules.
Beans and Vegetables Legumes. Beans and vegetable legumes shown in Table 9 (Crop Group 6) include several dry and succulent beans and peas, such as Southern peas and green/snap beans, as well as lima and mung beans. They are grown predominately in the High Plains and Rolling Plains. Vegetable Legumes. Dry beans* . Dry beans are a low-input crop with little or no fertilizer and few crop protection chemicals. Consists of beans that ripen prior to harvest and are sold dry, such as black-eyed peas, cowpeas, pintos (yields 3,000 pounds per acre), and kidney beans. Black-eyes yield 1,500 to 2,000 pounds.
Well-known legumes include alfalfa, clover, peas, beans, lentils, lupins, mesquite, carob, soybeans, peanuts and tamarind. A legume fruit is a simple dry fruit that develops from a simple carpel and usually dehisces (opens along a seam) on two sides. A common name for this type of fruit is a pod, although the term pod is also applied to a few other fruit types, such as that of vanilla (a capsule) and of radish (a silique). Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules.
Legume Vegetables & Fruits. Legume Family (Fabaceae) Scarlet runner bean (Phaseolus coccineus), a valuable bean native to Central America. Unlike other species of Phaseolus, the flowers are bright red and even the seed coats are tinged with pinkish-red. There are literally hundreds of varieties of these two species of legumes, including beans and peas with many different sizes, colors, shapes and growth habits. They represent a major component of the world's vegetables. Fresh green pods of the fava or broad bean (Faba vulgaris)
Legumes are the seeds of the plant and are eaten in their immature form as green peas and beans, and the mature form as dried peas, beans, lentils and chickpeas. Vegetables can be broken up into different groups, with each group providing their own unique nutrients. The main sub-groups for vegetables are: Green vegetables (including some salad vegetables), beetroot, cauliflower, asparagus, dried peas, beans and lentils are a good source of folate. Cruciferous vegetables (such as broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, brussels sprouts and bok choy) are believed to have compounds which provide protection against some cancers.