Five-shelf bookcases range in height from 72 inches to 77 inches. The width will range from 31 inches to 37 inches, and the depth will be the standard of 12 to 13 inches. Taller five-shelf bookcases are often found in European stores, such as Ikea. Specialty bookcases, made for paperbacks, are also available that have a small, paperback-appropriate depth of about 5 inches.
Economy. If you're building the bookcase yourself, select a length that allows you to build the shelves economically, with a minimum of wasted materials. For example, most boards come in lengths of 6, 8, 10 or 12 feet long. It makes sense then to make a bookcase that is either one of these lengths or half these lengths so you can get two pieces out of one board. To make a 4-foot long bookshelf, you could get two shelves from one 8-foot long board.
Height: Common heights range from 74 to 88 inches for full height bookshelves. The top can be flat (or with a slight ridge) to allow display items to securely be placed on top of the unit. Short bookcases are often 30 inches (the height of a desk) to 42 inches, but can be any size desired. One commercial line offers heights of 22 1/2, 40 1/2, 52 1/4, 64, 76 1/4, and 88. Another catalog offers 30, 40 and 48. Each bookcase is 24 inches wide and 80 inches tall. The units are 16 inches deep to go better with the deep center entertainment unit. Solid walnut raised panel doors cover the lower section, which extends to 30 inches above the floor. The shelves in this unit are adjustable.
For most shelves made from 3/4 inch stock, a practical span is 30 to 36 inches. 3. Shelf depth is determined by the size of the items to be stored, generally within the range of 6 to 24 inches. Shelf depth for a general purpose bookshelf is usually 10 to 12 inches.
In terms of durability, a bookcase that is 4 feet long is ideal. The shelves of longer bookcases might become bent over time from the weight of the books. If you opt for a longer bookshelf, select one that has a supporting beam in the middle of the furniture. For example, most boards come in lengths of 6, 8, 10 or 12 feet long. It makes sense then to make a bookcase that is either one of these lengths or half these lengths so you can get two pieces out of one board. To make a 4-foot long bookshelf, you could get two shelves from one 8-foot long board.
Tool Free Bookcase. Most of the tool free bookcases have sizes of around fifty nine inches by eighteen inches. With this standard size, it is able to give you a lot of space for storage that you would probably be happy to have for your books and other things. 
Ceiling height is 8'. Design is pretty simplistic no frills, wide moldings, etc. What's the ideal average width a bookshelf should be, made out of 3/4 cherry plywood that is 12 deep with perhaps a 1 - 1 1/4 rail attached to the front and probably fastened through the plywood on the back of the bookcase somehow. Books are average size and the shelves will be pretty full, not much display space. 
The standard height of a four-shelf bookcase is 54 inches. Standard narrow four-shelf bookcases will have a width of 24 inches, and a wide four-shelf bookcase will have a width of 45 inches. The depth may range from 12 inches to 14 5/8 inches. The width will range from 31 inches to 37 inches, and the depth will be the standard of 12 to 13 inches. Taller five-shelf bookcases are often found in European stores, such as Ikea. Specialty bookcases, made for paperbacks, are also available that have a small, paperback-appropriate depth of about 5 inches.
If you're designing a cabinet or a bookcase, what's the greatest length (span) a shelf can be without an objectionable sag? There are four factors to consider: 1) how the load is distributed, 2) the expected load, 3) the shelf material, 4) the method of reinforcement. 
For ease of shelf access, bookcases are generally no higher than 84 inches. Small bookcases are usually 30 to 42 inches high. The highest shelf in a bookcase should be as. high as an average-sized person can comfortably reach about 72 to 78 inches. 3. Shelf depth is determined by the size of the items to be stored, generally within the range of 6 to 24 inches. Shelf depth for a general purpose bookshelf is usually 10 to 12 inches.