Quite simply, take the distance in light years and that is your answer. Alpha Centauri is 4.3 light years away, so that is how long its light will take to reach us, 4.3 year … s. The closest star to us, our sun is 8.3 light minutes away. This is about 93 million miles. But the light will only take... you guessed it, 8.3 minutes to reach Earth
Best Answer: The closest other star to Earth is Proxima Centauri, at 4.2 light years away-which means that it takes light 4.2 years to get here. Light travels at a speed of 3.0 x 10^8 m/s, and the distance it can travel in a year is called a light year. The distance is measured in light years. Light from our Sun (Sol) takes about 8 minutes to reach us. The distance from us to Sol is quite great, and it takes minutes. Imagine how far the light would get in a year, and you've got light years. Several light years away lies the nearest star to us, other than Sol
Q-Star. The short answer is that it takes sunlight an average of 8 minutes and 20 seconds to travel from the Sun to the Earth.……..Here's the math. We orbit the Sun at a distance of about 150 million km. Light moves at 300,000 kilometers/second. Divide these and you get 500 seconds, or 8 minutes and 20 seconds. vacuum-mechanics. The short answer is that it takes sunlight an average of 8 minutes and 20 seconds to travel from the Sun to the Earth.……..Here's the math. We orbit the Sun at a distance of about 150 million km. Light moves at 300,000 kilometers/second. Divide these and you get 500 seconds, or 8 minutes and 20 seconds.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. It depends on the distance between the earth and the star, the sun's light takes only 8 minutes to reach us, but other stars are much further away and take years at least for their light to reach us. superpsychicman · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. the distance between stellar objects is measured in light years which is the distance light travels through vacumn in a year. So if a star is four light years away it would take 4 years for the light to reach earth.
The short answer is that it takes sunlight an average of 8 minutes and 20 seconds to travel from the Sun to the Earth.……..Here's the math. We orbit the Sun at a distance of about 150 million km. Light moves at 300,000 kilometers/second. vacuum-mechanics. The short answer is that it takes sunlight an average of 8 minutes and 20 seconds to travel from the Sun to the Earth.……..Here's the math. We orbit the Sun at a distance of about 150 million km. Light moves at 300,000 kilometers/second. Divide these and you get 500 seconds, or 8 minutes and 20 seconds.
In our Solar System, we see light from our sun reflected off the planets. In more distant galaxies, light from many millions of stars takes a long time to reach the Earth. It takes light 4 years to reach the Earth from Sirius, a near neighbouring star. Using the Hubble telescope, we can see the light from the Eagle Nebula, which takes 7,000 years to reach the Earth.
Report Abuse. All stars are different in distance and the closest is 4 light years away, that means if you pointed a red laser light at it, it would take 4 years for that light to reach that star, if the sun died suddenly it would take 8 minutes for us to realize this since the sun is 8 light minutes away from us. Report Abuse. That depends on how far away the star is. The closest star is Alpha Centauri, which is about 4.37 light years away. So it takes 4 years and 3 months for light to reach us from Alpha Centauri.
Report Abuse. That depends. Distance from the earth to stars is measured in light years. It takes a ray of light (light travels at 186,200 miles per second) one year to reach the earth. So a star that is 10 million light years away...it takes 10 million years to reach earth. That is why you'll hear astronomers say that when we are looking at stars, we are looking back into the past. Report Abuse. That depends on how far away the star is. The closest star is Alpha Centauri, which is about 4.37 light years away. So it takes 4 years and 3 months for light to reach us from Alpha Centauri.