If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
Uploaded on Sep 7, 2010. Here is a neat and easy project on how to make a chicken egg incubator. Doesn't take long to make. The eggs will hatch in 21 days. I give you all the guidelines for successfully incubating the chickens including what to do and how to make the incubator. About My Channel: I have hundreds of videos covering all kinds of creative projects.
While chicken eggs take 21 days, for example, geese can take between 30 and 35 days and need a higher humidity level. Goslings are also more likely to hatch if the eggs are sprayed with water every day between days 6 and about 25, whereas chicken eggs need to be kept in humid conditions, but dry. 
Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began. Fertility and Candling. Natural fertility is rarely 100% - it may vary from 55% to 95% with season, condition and type of birds. You might be safe to expect that 50% to 75% of the fertile eggs will hatch, though 90%-100% hatches can and does happen. With shipped eggs the hatch rate is approximately 50% overall.
Chicken eggs have an incubation period of about 21 days and can be hatched using either a specialized incubator under carefully monitored conditions, or using a broody hen. Use these tips for hatching chicken eggs using both methods. 1 Temperature: Chicken eggs should be incubated at a temperature between 99 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit (99.5 is often considered to be ideal). 2  Avoid temperatures outside the 97–103 °F (36–39 °C). 3  range. 4  If the temperature remains beyond either extreme for several days, hatchability may be severely reduced.
It takes 21 days on average for an egg to hatch once incubation begins. Before placing the eggs inside, turn on the heat source and measure the temperature and humidity over a 24-hour period, making adjustments as necessary to create the optimal environment. Temperature: The eggs need to be kept at 99.5 degrees at all times; just one degree higher or lower for a few hours can terminate the embryo. Humidity: 40 to 50 percent humidity must be maintained for the first 18 days; 65 to 75 percent humidity is needed for the final days before hatching.
Chicken eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Chicken eggs incubate for 21 days. Your countdown for days starts when you put your eggs in your incubator. It does not start when the hen lays her eggs. Duck eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Mallard and domestic duck eggs (including Ancona) incubate for 28 days.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. 7. Turn the eggs at least three times daily.
Turning. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position. Fertility and Candling. Natural fertility is rarely 100% - it may vary from 55% to 95% with season, condition and type of birds. You might be safe to expect that 50% to 75% of the fertile eggs will hatch, though 90%-100% hatches can and does happen. With shipped eggs the hatch rate is approximately 50% overall.