The earliest form of English is called Old English or Anglo-Saxon (c. 550–1066 CE). Old English developed from a set of North Sea Germanic dialects originally spoken along the coasts of Frisia, Lower Saxony, Jutland, and Southern Sweden by Germanic tribes known as the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes. As of 2010 359 million people spoke English as their first language. English is probably the third largest language by number of native speakers, after Mandarin and Spanish. However, when combining native and non-native speakers it is probably the most commonly spoken language in the world.
It is believed to have evolved into modern. English in the 17th {1650s} century. Historically, English originated from several dialects, now called Old English, which were brought to Great Britain by Anglo-Saxon settlers beginning in the 5th century. The language was heavily influenced by the Old. Norse language of Viking invaders. The English language was first spoken by the English people and after a while Australians started to speak English as well as the USA and many other countries speak English. E … nglish is the medium of communication with one another. It is the 3rd most common spoken language in the world.
April 16, 2011 by: Dictionary.com 251 Comments. The origin of spoken language has stumped linguistics dating as far back as the Twenty-sixth dynasty in Egypt and the first recorded language experiment conducted by a Pharaoh named Psammetichus I. Atkinson hints that if African populations began their dispersal from Africa to Asia and Europe 60,000 years ago, perhaps the spoken language had to exist around that time and, as Atkinson hints at, may have been the catalyst for their dispersion and subsequent migration.
The foundation of the English language was first built when the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes came to England. The Old Saxon language was the most spoken in England until the Vikings from mainly Norway and Denmark invaded Britain. This lead to many Scandinavian words entering the English Language. And when some Vikings settled in Normandy, they began to adopt French as their main language, eventually replacing Danish. And when they conquered England in 1066, they brought over and introduced around 30,000 French words to the ever growing English Language. The French addition to the English Language was the true start of Modern English.
Early Modern English began in the late 15th century with the introduction of the printing press to London and the King James Bible as well as the Great Vowel Shift. Through the worldwide influence of the British Empire, modern English spread around the world from the 17th to mid-20th centuries. As of 2010 359 million people spoke English as their first language. English is probably the third largest language by number of native speakers, after Mandarin and Spanish. However, when combining native and non-native speakers it is probably the most commonly spoken language in the world.
Cambridge University considers the English language to begin when Anglo Saxon (the West Germanic language which came to Britain in the f … ifth century with the Angles and Saxons) began to lose its case endings and absorb large amounts of Norman French and Norse vocabulary-sometime in the Eleventh century. The English language was first spoken by the English people and after a while Australians started to speak English as well as the USA and many other countries speak English. E … nglish is the medium of communication with one another. It is the 3rd most common spoken language in the world.
How did the English Language Begin. 10 Mar, 2011 how did 0. English is the third most spoken language the world over. Approximately 400 million people speak it as a first language and over 1.4 billion people speak English as a second language. It is the official language in 53 countries worldwide. It is not an easy task to identify when English was first spoken. English as a language belongs to the Indo-European family. This family also includes Spanish, Hindi, Portuguese, Bengali, Russian, German, Marathi, French, Italian, Punjabi, and Urdu.
English has developed over the course of more than 1,400 years. The earliest forms of English, a set of Anglo-Frisian dialects brought to Great Britain by Anglo-Saxon settlers in the fifth century, are called Old English. As of 2010 359 million people spoke English as their first language. English is probably the third largest language by number of native speakers, after Mandarin and Spanish. However, when combining native and non-native speakers it is probably the most commonly spoken language in the world.
By the seventh century, the Germanic language of the Anglo-Saxons became dominant in Britain, replacing the languages of Roman Britain (43–409 CE): Common Brittonic, a Celtic language, and Latin, brought to Britain by the Roman occupation. As of 2010 359 million people spoke English as their first language. English is probably the third largest language by number of native speakers, after Mandarin and Spanish. However, when combining native and non-native speakers it is probably the most commonly spoken language in the world.