A gout diet may help decrease uric acid levels in the blood. While a gout diet is not a cure, it may lower the risk of recurring painful gout attacks and slow the progression of joint damage. Medication also is needed to manage pain and to lower levels of uric acid. Definition. Gout, a painful form of arthritis, occurs when high levels of uric acid in the blood cause crystals to form and accumulate around a joint. Uric acid is produced when the body breaks down a chemical called purine. Purine occurs naturally in your body, but it's also found in certain foods
Purine compounds, whether produced in the body or from eating high-purine foods, can raise uric acid levels. Excess uric acid can produce uric acid crystals, which then build up in soft tissues and joints, causing the painful symptoms of gout. 
Foods to avoid if you have gout. by Anne Harding. Gout is an extremely painful inflammation of the joints caused by a buildup of needle-sharp uric-acid crystals. The big toe is the most common target, but gout can attack the feet, ankles, knees, and hands as well. An attack or “flare” can last for days or months. Men and obese people are at greater risk.
When you have gout, you have higher than normal levels of uric acid in your body. When too much uric acid builds up around a joint, uric crystal forms, causing a painful gout flare. All sorts of things -- from certain foods and drinks to stress and medicines -- can cause your uric acid levels to go up. 1 Eating just one of these foods or several of them together, can cause a gout flare. 2  Purines are found in all foods that have protein. 3  Alcohol -- Beer and liquor can raise the uric acid level in the blood and many bring on
Foods that Cause Gout. Gout is a type of arthritis characterized by joint inflammation and pain, arising due to an excess of uric acid in blood and synovial fluid. Unhealthy lifestyle coupled with purine-rich diet is one of the causative factors for g
Moderate levels of purine in your diet may not affect gout, but high levels will. Fish with high levels of purine include herring, sardines, carp, cod, haddock, salmon, trout, tuna, and anchovies. Eating small amounts of these foods should not produce an acute attack, however a diet high in purine rich fish can. Next ». The prevention of gout attacks lies in diet. There are a number of foods that can trigger a gout attack. Recent studies have found that many of the vegetables we believe cause gout attacks in fact can decrease the risk. These foods include beans, peas, and leafy greens.
1 Foods -- Foods that are high in a substance called purines can raise the uric acid level in your blood. 2  This includes organ meats like liver; seafood like sardines, anchovies, mussels, and salmon; and even some vegetables such as spinach. 1 Eating just one of these foods or several of them together, can cause a gout flare. 2  Purines are found in all foods that have protein. 3  Alcohol -- Beer and liquor can raise the uric acid level in the blood and many bring on
Certain types of food that are high in naturally occurring chemicals called purines are considered to be foods that cause gout. Among the foods that carry the highest risk of causing gout are some types of seafood, such as herring, mussels and sardines, as well as yeast and organ meats such as liver and kidneys. The kidneys normally break down purines into uric acid and then eliminate the acid from the body. People who have gout or who are at risk of getting gout are encouraged to avoid many types of foods that are high in purines. Anyone who has gout or who is at risk for gout should see a medical professional for advice.