How Long on your report. For derogatory accounts added to your credit file since December 29, 1997, the length of time on your credit report will be 7 years and 180 days. This is according to the Consumer Credit Reporting Reform Act of 1996 which amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act. Actually, it will be 7 years and 180 days. For derogatory accounts added to your credit file since December 29, 1997, the length of time on your credit report will be 7 years and 180 days.
Luckily, there are set time frames for how long negative information remains on a credit report. In general, negative information more than seven years old from the date of last activity (ten years for bankruptcies) must be removed from your file. I understand that the “Date of Last Activity” determines when an item will come off of a credit report. I have 6 potentially negative accounts on my report and they all have a Date of Last Activity of “N/A”. How do I fix this to show a date and how long should I expect an N/A to stay on my report.
Gil, great question. In general, negative items will be removed from your credit report 7 years after the date of last activity—though it depends on the item. Here’s more information on how long late payments stay on your credit report. I understand that the “Date of Last Activity” determines when an item will come off of a credit report. I have 6 potentially negative accounts on my report and they all have a Date of Last Activity of “N/A”. How do I fix this to show a date and how long should I expect an N/A to stay on my report.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
These negative items are dragging your credit score down and you want to know how long these are going to be listed on your report. It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Derogatory items fall off your credit report 7-1/2 years from the date of first deficiency. This is per the FCRA and nothing re-sets the clock. If the items are not removed, send a dispute to the credit bureaus that the item is beyond the reporting period
Step 3. Wait patiently for derogatory credit marks to be removed from your credit report if your creditor will not agree to remove them. In most cases, a creditor can only report negative information for seven years. Bankruptcies and judgments may remain with you for 10 years, however. With time and effort, you can have derogatory marks removed from your credit report and enjoy an increase in your credit score. The steps you'll have to take won't be easy, and in some cases, you will need to exercise your powers of persuasion.