Test the soil surrounding your snap pea plant if you didn't do it at the time of planting. The ideal pH is between 6.0 and 7.0. Soil tests kits are available at most garden centers, as well as your local county extension office. Soil can often be amended easily with organic compost.
Water the snap peas as often as it takes to keep the soil moist. Snap peas do not thrive in dry soil. During rain-free periods, stick your finger 2 inches into the soil every other day or so. If the soil feels dry, then you need to water it.
Step 2. Plant your peas 1 to 1-1/2 inches deep and 1 inch a part in a row. Plant two to four weeks before the last frost of spring. If your soil temperature is 5 degrees F or more, your peas will germinate and grow in seven to nine days.
1 To get the best head start, turn over your pea planting beds in the fall, add manure to the soil, and mulch well. 2  As with other legumes, pea roots will fix nitrogen in the soil, making it available for other plants. 3  Peas will appreciate a good sprinkling of wood ashes to the soil before planting.
Step 2. Prepare a shallow row for the peas, no more than 1 1/2 to 2 inches deep. If you will be planting more than one row, allow 1 1/2 to 2 feet between rows. If you are planting a vine or climbing variety of sugar snap peas, then your row needs to be next to a fence or trellis to offer support for growing vines. The bush variety does not require support. Lay pea seeds in the rows spacing 2 inches apart. Cover the seeds with dirt so the planting depth is 1 1/2 inches. Water the rows with the shower setting on your garden hose or with a shower nozzle on a watering can. Place mulch around the plants as soon as seedlings begin to appear.
You will plant your snap peas planting seeds one to one and a half inches deep and one inch apart. Make sure to put 18 to 24 inches between pairs of plants or rows. Early on when growing sugar snap peas, you want to be sure to cultivate and hoe shallowly so you do not injure the plants. Advertisement.
Till the soil with a hoe or rototiller. Sugar snap peas don't mind cool temperatures as long as the soil is at least 45 degrees F. Prepare a shallow row for the peas, no more than 1 1/2 to 2 inches deep. If you will be planting more than one row, allow 1 1/2 to 2 feet between rows.