Diclofenac sodium is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that helps relieve pain, stiffness, and swelling caused by several types of arthritis, including osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Diclofenac sodium (Voltaren 速 , Voltaren 速 -XR) belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It is used to reduce pain, inflammation, swelling, and stiffness caused by several types of arthritis.
Uses. Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat mild-to-moderate pain, and helps to relieve symptoms of arthritis (eg, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis), such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. 
Your search for diclofenac oral returned 2 results. DICLOFENAC SODIUM ENTERIC-COATED TABLET-ORAL. DICLOFENAC SODIUM SUSTAINED-ACTION TABLET-ORAL. The medication you searched for has more than one listing. Multiple listings, which are compiled by generic name indicate a drug is available in more than one dose or in different forms, such as tablets, liquid or injection.
Arthrotec (diclofenac and misoprostol) 50-mg tablets. Diclofenac is also available in topical forms for the treatment of conditions such as osteoarthritis, actinic keratosis, and acute pain caused by minor strains, sprains, and contusions (bruises). Diclofenac (INN; see trade names below) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) taken or applied to reduce inflammation and as an analgesic reducing pain in certain conditions. It is supplied as or contained in medications under a variety of trade names.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Voltaren速 (diclofenac sodium enteric-coated tablets) is a benzene-acetic acid derivative. Voltaren (diclofenac sodium) is available as delayed-release (enteric-coated) tablets of 75 mg (light pink) for oral administration. Voltaren速. (diclofenac sodium) Enteric-Coated Tablets of 75 mg. CARDIOVASCULAR RISK. 1  NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. 2  This risk may increase with duration of use.
Diclofenac sodium is an NSAID that is used to treat inflammation and pain, mostly those associated with arthritis. 1  Indications and Usage. 2  Diclofenac sodium Dosage. 3  Diclofenac sodium Side Effects. 4  Interactions. 
Save. Diclofenac sodium is a non steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that relieves pain, inflammation and fever. It is commonly prescribed to treat pain, swelling and stiffness associated with osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. Doctors also prescribe diclofenac to treat headaches, muscle aches, dental pain and sports injuries.