Cholesterol and triglycerides are both lipids, but have very different shapes. Cholesterol is made up of connected rings of carbon atoms and also is called a “sterol”. Triglycerides are chains of carbons called “fatty acids”, attached at one end to a carbon backbone.
Lipids = cholesterol and triglyceride-are insoluble in plasma and are transported in lipoproteins. Functions = energy utilization, steroid hormone production, bile acid production, lipid deposition. Lipoprotein consists of esterified and unesterified cholesterol, triglycerides, phospholipids and apo
Tests: cholesterol and triglycerides (lipids). The lipid profile is a group of tests that are often ordered together to determine risk of coronary heart disease such as heart attack or atherosclerosis.
A lipid panel is a blood test that measures lipids-fats and fatty substances used as a source of energy by your body. Lipids include cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) , and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) . This panel measures: 1  Total cholesterol level.
Cholesterol and triglyceride tests are blood tests that measure the total amount of fatty substances (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the blood. Cholesterol travels through the blood attached to a protein. This cholesterol-protein package is called a lipoprotein. Lipoprotein analysis (lipoprotein profile or lipid profile) measures blood levels of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides.
Foods that contain a “bad fat” called saturated fat can cause an increase in cholesterol. Saturated fat is a solid at room temperature. It is naturally found in animal-based foods such as cheese, milk, butter, and steak. Some plant-based foods such as palm oil and coconut oil contain saturated fats.
Lipids are a group of fats and fat-like substances that are important constituents of cells and sources of energy. A lipid profile measures the level of specific lipids in the blood. Two important lipids, cholesterol and triglycerides, are transported in the blood by lipoprotein particles. Each particle contains a combination of protein, cholesterol, triglyceride, and phospholipid molecules.