Answers. crumble999 answered: With fertilizer (a good one) it takes about 1 day and a half to grow into an adult, without fetilizer it takes about 3 days. Make sure not to use the deathfish as a fetilizer as it will kill it. 6 years ago 0 1. 
Note: Before you start trying to grow a 6-week plant, consider that it will produce just a few grams of smokable harvest. With a 4 week vegetative stage, the time from seed to harvest averages 3-3.5 months, but the yields can increase from a few grams to double-digit ounces. So a more fair answer might be to say that... The average grow takes 3-4 months. This includes the time needed to grow your cannabis plant from seedling to harvest plus an additional 2 weeks which is needed to quick-cure your cannabis buds after harvest.
Important Milestones in the Marijuana Plant's Life. Depending on how you set up your grow, it can take anywhere from 2 months to 6 months or more to grow a marijuana plant from a seedling to the point where the plant is ready to harvest. Some methods, such as growing hydroponically indoors, give your flexibility to get a harvested plant in as little as 2-3 months. Growing outdoors generally takes longer than growing indoors and is more dependent on when you plant your seeds and how long your growing season is.
How long does a plant take to grow? Depends on entirely on the type of plant; annuals will go from seed  to flower in anything between 8 and 12 weeks.    Pernnial plants can literally take a lifetime bef … ore they flower -  some up to 80 years from the time they germinate. Cherry tomatoes typically take 30 to 45 days from flower to fruit, while large slicing tomatoes take 40 to 60 days. Tomatoes grow best at temperatures between 55 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit. For temperatures much outside this range, the plant growth will slow down and the flowers will not set any fruit.
From Day 1 of your marijuana plant's life to a Smokable Harvest, you're looking at 8.5 weeks - 7+ Months. Many factors will affect the total time, but the average grow takes 3-4 months. Some methods, such as growing hydroponically indoors, give your flexibility to get a harvested plant in as little as 2-3 months. Growing outdoors generally takes longer than growing indoors and is more dependent on when you plant your seeds and how long your growing season is.
Larger trees will take several seasons, and often several years, to grow to full size. A tree that is considered fast growing will be 25 feet tall after 10 years. The average rate of growth for trees varies largely depending upon the conditions, care and type of tree. Adding coffee grounds to the soil helps improve pH for fruits. When the plant reaches 6 inches, usually after a few months, pick off the new growth in the center of the plant to help it grow and flower more quickly.
It is ready for harvest in 50 to 70 days from planting, depending on how you plan to use them. Before cucumbers can produce fruit, the plants grow both male and female flowers on the same plant. So the more you harvest, the more cucumber you can expect to grow in one season. Harvest cucumbers based on use. Harvest pickling cucumbers when they reach 1 to 6 inches long, slicing cucumbers at 6 to 10 inches long and cucumber for regular dills at 3 to 4 inches long. 1  Dig This.
It depends on the tomato variety and the growing conditions. Tomato plants take about six weeks to grow from seed to transplant size (6 to 8 inches tall) in the nursery. Then, … depending on the variety and weather, it can take another 60 to 90 days to produce the first ripe tomato. Cherry tomatoes typically take 30 to 45 days from flower to fruit, while large slicing tomatoes take 40 to 60 days. Tomatoes grow best at temperatures between 55 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit. For temperatures much outside this range, the plant growth will slow down and the flowers will not set any fruit.