Planning & Advice. How deep (or tall) a raised bed should be depends on the rooting depth requirements of the plants you wish to grow, and whether the ground below the planter is made of healthy soil. Shallow rooted plants such as lettuces, greens, annual herbs and most flowers can be grown in planters 11 to 16.5 inches tall, though even these plants may grow larger if given more soil. Taller planters also provide easier access and reduce the need for bending over.
For example, say you are growing onions on 4-inch by 4-inch spacings in an 8-inch-deep planter. Each onion requires 16 square inches of soil surface (4 x 4), and 128 cubic inches of soil (16 x 8). If you want to grow 20 onions, you will need 128 x 20 = 2,560 cubic inches of soil. Container soil is often sold in bags labeled in quarts or cubic feet. Nevertheless, vegetable plants concentrate their root systems in the top 1 to 3 feet of soil, and most crops can make adequate growth in only 12 inches of specially prepared soil.
Planter Depth. If possible, grow all your vegetables in planters that are 12 inches deep. This will be generous for smaller crops and adequate for larger crops, and deeper planters will require less attention to irrigation. Nevertheless, vegetable plants concentrate their root systems in the top 1 to 3 feet of soil, and most crops can make adequate growth in only 12 inches of specially prepared soil.
Choose plants according to how much sun or shade they’ll get each day. Most vegetables need at least 6 hours every day. Leafy vegetables, such as lettuce, onions, carrots and beets will do okay in partial shade. But plants that bear fruit such as tomatoes, eggplant, squash, peppers need full sun (at least 6 hours). 2. 
For most plants, a 6-to 8-inch-deep planter box is sufficient. The depth may vary for some vegetables, however. Turnips, cucumbers, broccoli, beets, lettuce and green onions can all grow well in a planter box at that depth, but other vegetables, like cabbage, need a deeper depth of at least 10 inches. Vegetables like tomatoes, carrots and peppers require a deeper container of at least 12 inches. To make sure any vegetable root balls have adequate growing space, leave 2 inches of space on the roots' sides and 6 inches on the bottom. Large bulbs require a planting depth of 8 inches, which means the planter box should allow for the 6 inches needed at the bottom, as discussed earlier, making the depth at least 14 inches. Most smaller bulbs are planted at 3 to 4 inches deep, so they would do fine in planter box with an 8-inch depth
Free Shipping. How deep (or tall) a raised bed should be depends on the rooting depth requirements of the plants you wish to grow, and whether the ground below the planter is made of healthy soil. Shallow rooted plants such as lettuces, greens, annual herbs and most flowers can be grown in planters 11 to 16.5 inches tall, though even these plants may grow larger if given more soil. Taller planters also provide easier access and reduce the need for bending over.
However, growing vegetables is a different situation. Vegetable plants need more room to root and grow. Seeds that are sown shallow (up to 1 inch deep) should have 12 to 15 inches of soil to grow into. Seeds that are sown deeper than 1 inch should have a minimum of 18 inches of soil beneath them to grow into. If a seed is planted 3 inches into the soil, the total soil thickness should be at least 21 inches. The seed packaging will tell you how deep the seeds need to be sown to be successful. Potatoes require a planting depth of 3 to 6 inches. Corn and cucumbers like the depth of about 1 inch. Basic wooden or plastic planter boxes that are easily and readily found in stores are 6 to 8 inches deep.
All types of vegetables need well-drained soil in which to thrive. Without drainage, the vegetables will get root rot and die. Also, planter boxes should be between 1 gallon and 3 gallons per plant so the vegetable's roots have enough room to grow. Choose a location for your planter boxes that gets full sun, at least 6 to 8 hours of sunlight a day. Fill the planter boxes 2/3 full of potting soil. Dig a hole in the soil deep enough to accommodate the vegetable's root ball. Make sure the crown of the plant is about 1 to 2 inches below the rim of the planter box. Place the vegetables into the holes and fill the planter with potting soil until it is 1/4 inch higher than the crown of the plant