Situated amidst rich flora fauna, Suruli Falls serve as a perfect picnic spot. They lie on the way to Periyar National Park, at a distance of 123 km from Madurai. The falls originate from the Megamalai hills and descend from a height of 150 feet. The dargah also lies close to the cave temple of Kailasanatha. There is another temple near the Suruli Falls called the Suruli Velappar temple, dedicated to Lord Kartikeya. The pilgrims visit the temple with pots of milk on Saturday.
Here is a brief introduction on the picturesque Suruli Falls, situated near Madurai city of Tamil Nadu. The dargah also lies close to the cave temple of Kailasanatha. There is another temple near the Suruli Falls called the Suruli Velappar temple, dedicated to Lord Kartikeya. The pilgrims visit the temple with pots of milk on Saturday.
There are also other 18 caves in and around the Suruli Falls of Tamil Nadu. Then, there is a dargah near the falls, named after a Muslim mystic, Abubacker Masthan who lived around here in 1630s. Being the last resting place of the mystic, the dargah is an important place of worship. The dargah also lies close to the cave temple of Kailasanatha. There is another temple near the Suruli Falls called the Suruli Velappar temple, dedicated to Lord Kartikeya. The pilgrims visit the temple with pots of milk on Saturday.
Suruli falls, is located 56 km (35 mi) from Theni and 10 km (6.2 mi) from Cumbum in the Theni district in Tamil Nadu, India. The falls drop from a height of 150 feet (46 m) gathers into a pool, flows for a short distance and again plummets an additional 40 feet (12 m). Tourism: It is one of the major tourist attractions in the Theni district and draws tourists from different parts of the state, particularly during the southwest monsoon.
During this time, the volume of the water in the falls is astounding. The Kailasanathar Temple Cave is also an added attraction of the place. It is located near Suruli Falls, at a height of 800 meters above the falls and has a spring, which is believed to have water with curative powers. The dargah also lies close to the cave temple of Kailasanatha. There is another temple near the Suruli Falls called the Suruli Velappar temple, dedicated to Lord Kartikeya. The pilgrims visit the temple with pots of milk on Saturday.
9.6644 77.3033. Suruli falls, is located 56 km (35 mi) from Theni and 10 km (6.2 mi) from Cumbum in the Theni district in Tamil Nadu, India. It is a 2 stage Cascading water fall. The Suruli River supplying the falls originates from the Meghamalai mountain range. The falls drop from a height of 150 feet (46 m) gathers into a pool, flows for a short distance and again plummets an additional 40 feet (12 m). Tourism: It is one of the major tourist attractions in the Theni district and draws tourists from different parts of the state, particularly during the southwest monsoon.
It is located near Suruli Falls at a height of 800 meters above the falls and has a spring which is believed to have curative powers. There are about 18 caves in and around Suruli Falls. There is another temple near Suruli Falls called the Suruli Velappar Temple. One can only travel by road to Suruli Falls. The nearest airports are Madurai, Thiruchirapally and Coimbatore. Chennai is the only International Airport in Tamil Nadu. One can reach Dindigul by train and get road transport for about 120 km to reach
Suruli Falls Geographical Location. This panorama is located in Theni District in the state of Tamil Nadu. The falls lies on the way to Periyar National Park, at a distance of 123 km from Madurai. It is located 56 kms from Theni and 10 km from Cumbum. Picture 1 – Suruli falls. One can only travel by road to Suruli Falls. The nearest airports are Madurai, Thiruchirapally and Coimbatore. Chennai is the only International Airport in Tamil Nadu. One can reach Dindigul by train and get road transport for about 120 km to reach
Suruli Falls situated 8 Km from Kambam, 56 km from Theni of Western Ghats. When driving to the falls, you can see glorious views along side of the road. You can see many Grape Gardens and you can purchase fresh grapes there. Don t miss to take the photos of the pure nature green. The Suruli Falls which falls from a height of 150 feet gathers into a pool, flows for a short distance and again plummets to a depth of 40 feet, offering a spectacular sight of nature s raw and wild beauty. The dense forest that surround it provide an awesome backdrop. The main attraction in Mavoothu is the Vellappar Temple. This holy shrine is situated in the Varushanad hill ranges, 20 kms from Andipatti. Nestling among the hills, the temple is a top a peak, surrounded by natural vegetation.
This forest area has only shrubs but there is no source of water here and water will have to be piped over a distance of 30 km (19 mi),. Suruli falls (Tamil: சுருளி அருவி), is located 56 km (35 mi) from Theni and 10 km (6.2 mi) from Cumbum in the Theni District in Tamil Nadu, India. It is a 2 stage Cascading water fall. The Suruli River supplying the falls originates from the Meghamalai mountain range. The falls drop from a height of 150 feet (46 m) gathers into a pool, flows for a short distance and again plummets an additional 40 feet (12 m).