I think the pain is worse at night because of the activity during the day. I do experience pain at night (and throughout the day off & on). It makes it hard to go to sleep at night plus in the middle of the night the pain wakes me up.
Bone pain worse at night (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Bone pain worse at night', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Bone pain (type of symptom). However, note that other causes of the symptom 'Bone pain worse at night' may be possible.
'It is not clear why shingles pain gets worse at night, but it could be to do with levels of neurotransmitters, chemicals that transmit signals from a neuron to target cells, and hormones involved in pain perception, rising at night,' says John Oxford, a professor of virology at Queen Mary College University of London.
When pain occurs at night, and especially in bed, the patient may be hard pressed to find a comfortable position and may not be able to enjoy a restful sleep. The scope of this article centers on nighttime sciatica, including the reasons why it may occur and the possible solutions to resolve it.
Sciatica at night is one of the most common times for back and leg pain to occur. Most patients feel better after sleep and wake up ready to face the world. However, after a long day of activity, it is common for pain to come on strong.
Bone pain worse at night (symptom description): Bone pain worse at night is listed as a type of or related-symptom for symptom Bone pain.
Experiencing Sciatica at Night. Sciatica at night is one of the most common times for back and leg pain to occur. Most patients feel better after sleep and wake up ready to face the world. However, after a long day of activity, it is common for pain to come on strong.
Before we learn why it is you have shoulder pain at night, it’s important to learn which type of shoulder injury it is you are suffering from so we can rule out ‘I just slept in weird position one night and that’s why my shoulder hurts’.
Some people think that their pain is worse at night due to having less distractions, but my distractions are pretty much the same always, so I know that's not a factor for me. I hope you can find a way that works best for you to get the sleep and relief from pain that you need.