After thawing in the refrigerator, ground meat should be used as soon as possible. Once meat has been frozen and thawed, it will deteriorate more rapidly than if it had never been frozen. Whole meat cuts (chops, roasts) will remain useable for another 3-5 days in the refrigerator before cooking. However, once thawed, these bacteria can become active again. Never thaw meat on the counter or let it sit out of the refrigerator for more than two hours. In the summer, reduce this time to 1 hour. Never defrost meat in hot water. There are 3 Safe Ways To Defrost Meat: 1  In the refrigerator. 2  In cold water
You’ll need to change the water every 30 minutes to ensure that it stays sufficiently cold. Using this thawing method, small packages of frozen meat or poultry (about a pound) can defrost in one hour or less. For larger items, you should estimate about 30 minutes of defrosting time per pound of food. Once the food is thawed completely, you’ll need to cook it immediately. If you're defrosting a package of meat, poultry or fish that is in pieces, separate them as the food thaws. If you use the microwave thawing method, you’ll need to cook the food immediately after it’s thawed. Once you’ve cooked the food, you can safely refreeze it if you like.
Meat can be safely thawed in cold, not hot, water. Be sure to thaw meat in a leak-proof package or bag. Submerge the bag in cold water, changing water every 30 minutes so that is stays cold. It is important to keep the meat out of the food spoilage temperature range of 70° to 100°F. However, once thawed, these bacteria can become active again. Never thaw meat on the counter or let it sit out of the refrigerator for more than two hours. In the summer, reduce this time to 1 hour. Never defrost meat in hot water. There are 3 Safe Ways To Defrost Meat: 1  In the refrigerator. 2  In cold water
Poultry, fish and ground meat that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking. Beef, pork, lamb or veal (roasts, steaks or chops) will keep refrigerated for another 3 to 5 days after thawing. If you're defrosting a package of meat, poultry or fish that is in pieces, separate them as the food thaws. If you use the microwave thawing method, you’ll need to cook the food immediately after it’s thawed. Once you’ve cooked the food, you can safely refreeze it if you like.
1 If parts of the beef still seem solid, it is not completely defrosted. 2  If necessary, you can finish up the defrosting process in the microwave. 3  Place the ground beef in a microwave-safe dish and cover it. 4  Microwave on 50 percent power for 20 to 30 seconds at a time until it finishes thawing. If you are in a rush, your best options are to defrost the beef using cold water or a microwave. Here are instructions on how to thaw your bulk ground beef using the refrigerator, cold water,
Defrosting ground beef with refrigeration is best, but it also takes the longest amount of time. If you are in a rush, your best options are to defrost the beef using cold water or a microwave. Here are instructions on how to thaw your bulk ground beef using the refrigerator, cold water, or a microwave.
1 If necessary, you can finish up the defrosting process in the microwave. 2  Place the ground beef in a microwave-safe dish and cover it. 3  Microwave on 50 percent power for 20 to 30 seconds at a time until it finishes thawing. If you are in a rush, your best options are to defrost the beef using cold water or a microwave. Here are instructions on how to thaw your bulk ground beef using the refrigerator, cold water,
The exception to this is food thawed in a refrigerator. Meat can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days; ground beef and poultry for no more than 2 days. Thawed seafood should be cooked within one day. It is best not to re-freeze food that has been thawed. The quality of the food reduces if refrozen. 
How to Thaw Meat in the Refrigerator. You can safely thaw meat or poultry in the refrigerator because your fridge keeps its temperature between 35 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Refrigerator thawing requires some advanced planning, as it may take 24 hours to thaw a pound of ground beef or a package of chicken breasts. It is safe to refreeze foods thawed in the refrigerator without cooking them first. Follow these steps to thaw your poultry or meat: 1  Take the meat out of the freezer. 2  Keep the meat in the package or put in a clean plastic bag. 3  Place the meat in a dish so that when it thaws, the liquids do not drip on other foods.