Starting a Pool Cleaning Business on a Budget. Even if you are on a budget, you can start a pool service service. You can save lots of money running your business from home, since jobs are completed “on premises”. Pool Cleaning Tips: Supplies & Equipment. Equipment needed to start a pool business is minimal. Basic pool cleaning supplies include a skimmer, pool testing kit and chemicals used to treat the swimming pools.
You may envision a small operation with limited pool cleaning services. This type of venture requires tighter controls than larger pool maintenance and supply operations. This book contains the information that you need to plan, start, operate and manage a profitable pool service business. 
Cons of a Pool Cleaning Small Business. (LifeWire) - Overview of this Business. If you want to start a pool cleaning small business, you'll find plenty of opportunities -- meticulous pool maintenance is critical for homeowners, gyms, and apartments and motels. What You Need to Get Started in a Pool Cleaning Small Business. 1  Good physical health. 2  Business cards and flyers to pass out to pool-supply stores and contractors in your area. 3  About $2,000 for basic pool cleaning equipment and chemicals. 4  Reliable transportation to tote all of your pool cleaning gear. 5  Certification. 6  Insurance. 7  Ability to swim.
How much can a pool cleaning business make. The pool service professional can make anywhere from $20 rising to $60 per hour for cleaning and maintaining residential pools. For repairs the amount is generally a lot higher and runs from $100-$300 per hour. The average pool cleaning business after initial year can expect to make anywhere from $45,000-$100,000. This net income can vary slightly depending on average service rates, location and other variable costs. It is vital in the pool cleaning business to keep expenses to a minimum and charging proper rates. Too many start ups judge far too little, and have problems raising prices in the future. You can keep costs low by having a home office, using an answering service and shopping around for chemicals and equipment
You will also need to purchase a truck for transporting materials if you do not already own one. Business start-up publication Entrepreneur reports that start-up costs for a swimming pool cleaning business are about $2,000 as of 2011. Step 2. Contact local health departments and ask about gaining certification to clean public pools. Decide on pay rates to charge your customers for your pool cleaning service. Typical pool service rates range from $40 to $60 per week, depending on the pool's size; larger public pools and condominium facilities may pay even higher rates. You can also make more money by providing additional services.
What You Need to Get Started in a Pool Cleaning Small Business. 1  Good physical health. 2  Efficient pool-cleaning requires energy. 3  Business cards and flyers to pass out to pool-supply stores and contractors in your area. 4  These sources will likely help you land your first customers. What You Need to Get Started in a Pool Cleaning Small Business. 1  Good physical health. 2  Business cards and flyers to pass out to pool-supply stores and contractors in your area. 3  About $2,000 for basic pool cleaning equipment and chemicals. 4  Reliable transportation to tote all of your pool cleaning gear. 5  Certification. 6  Insurance. 7  Ability to swim.
Step 1. Call your county clerk's office and find out what type of license you will need to start your business. In Harris County, Texas, you will need to download the Assumed Name form or pick one up from the county clerk's office located at 201 Caroline St., fourth floor in Houston. Think up a name for your business and design a logo around it. Use your logo on business cards, flyers, car signage and other promotional materials. Step 5. Develop a price sheet and offer discounts for referrals or volume discounts, like buy three weeks, get one free or something similar.
Step 2. Learn as much as you can about cleaning pools. Assuming you have already done some pool cleaning, in the past you will be able to skip this step. If you've never cleaned a pool, find a friend with a pool and ask to do the job voluntarily. Read online, too, about pool volume, water testing, chemicals and other cleaning issues that may come up. Your local pool dealer can be an invaluable resource for any questions or concerns you may have. Think up a name for your business and design a logo around it. Use your logo on business cards, flyers, car signage and other promotional materials. Step 5. Develop a price sheet and offer discounts for referrals or volume discounts, like buy three weeks, get one free or something similar.