While the pancreas produces insulin, insulin is a hormone not a digestive enzyme. The enzymes secreted by the pancreas are proteases, lipase, trypsin and amylase. The digestive juice produced in the pancreas contains enzymes that aid in further digesting proteins, carbohydrates and fats, as described by the University of Montana. Liver The liver, the largest organ in the body according to New York State University, occupies the area under the diaphragm.
In the human digestive system, the main sites of digestion are the oral cavity, the stomach, and the small intestine. Digestive enzymes are secreted by different exocrine glands including: 1  Salivary glands. 2  Secretory cells in the stomach. 3  Secretory cells in the pancreas. 4  Secretory glands in the small intestine. 1 Somatostatin is a hormone produced by the mucosal cells of the duodenum and also the delta cells of the pancreas. 2  Somatostatin has a major inhibitory effect, including on pancreatic juice production.
There are two types of exocrine secretions produced by the pancreas. Acinar cells produce digestive enzymes: amylase, lipase, and peptidases. Pancreatic Secretion. There are two types of exocrine secretions produced by the pancreas. Acinar cells produce digestive enzymes: amylase, lipase, and peptidases. Pancreatic peptidases are produced as inactive zymogens that are only activated after they reach the duodenum (see webpage on Zymogens).
The main enzymes produced by the pancreas are amylase, which is important in the digestion of carbohydrates (foods like bread and potatoes), trypsin which digests protein (from meat, cheese, milk and pulses like beans), and lipase, which digests fat. The pancreas produces chemicals called enzymes which are essential to the digestion of food. These enzymes break down food into very small particles that the body can then absorb. Enzymes are produced in small glands in the pancreas and then flow through the organ into the first part of the bowel.
Epithelial cells in pancreatic ducts are the source of the bicarbonate and water secreted by the pancreas. Bicarbonate is a base and critical to neutralizing the acid coming into the small intestine from the stomach. Pancreatic juice is composed of two secretory products critical to proper digestion: digestive enzymes and bicarbonate. The enzymes are synthesized and secreted from the exocrine acinar cells, whereas bicarbonate is secreted from the epithelial cells lining small pancreatic ducts.
Protease enzymes are secreted by the stomach, pancreas and small intestine and their job is to digest proteins. An example of a protease is pepsin which is secreted in the stomach. 
The Flow. An enzyme is a protein that causes a chemical change. The pancreas contains exocrine glands that produce three main types of digestive enzymes. The enzymes mix with bicarbonate produced by the cells lining the pancreas. These pancreatic juices travel through the pancreatic duct to the common bile duct and then empty into the small intestine. 
1. Proteases Digestion of proteins is initiated by pepsin in the stomach, but the bulk of protein digestion is due to the pancreatic proteases. Several proteases are synthesized in the pancreas and secreted into the lumen of the small intestine. Pancreatic juice is composed of two secretory products critical to proper digestion: digestive enzymes and bicarbonate. The enzymes are synthesized and secreted from the exocrine acinar cells, whereas bicarbonate is secreted from the epithelial cells lining small pancreatic ducts.