Nephrostomy or Percutaneous Nephrostomy is a procedure that involves inserting a tube (Nephrostomy tube) or a catheter through the skin inside the kidney to drain urine. Nephrostomy tube or catheter can be kept patent by inserting a stent inside it. Nephrostomy can be temporary or permanent. Nephrostomy is a kind of 'Interventional Radiology' procedure.
Percutaneous nephrostomy, or nephropyelostomy, is an interventional procedure that is used mainly in the decompression of the renal collecting system. Shown are two types of nephrostomy tubes: the Malecot (top) tube, and the pigtail catheter (bottom). Percutaneous nephrostomy. The needle is positioned in the mid-pole posterior calyx, filled with air. A filter in the inferior vena cava.
Since the publication of the first report describing this procedure in 1955, percutaneous nephrostomy catheter placement has been the primary option for the temporary drainage of an obstructed collecting system. With proper training, technical success is achieved in more than 95% of cases. Shown are two types of nephrostomy tubes: the Malecot (top) tube, and the pigtail catheter (bottom). Percutaneous nephrostomy. The needle is positioned in the mid-pole posterior calyx, filled with air. A filter in the inferior vena cava.
Nephrostomy is usually performed when one of the ureters is blocked and the urine that is produced by the kidney cannot flow forward. As a result the back pressure of accumulated urine can cause damage to the kidney tissue and result in kidney failure. Nephrostomy tube or catheter can be kept patent by inserting a stent inside it. Nephrostomy can be temporary or permanent. Nephrostomy is a kind of 'Interventional Radiology' procedure.
In these cases, percutaneous nephrostomy is an attractive treatment alternative because it allows decompression of the obstructed system, permits specimen collection, and creates a route for antibiotic instillation if needed. This procedure decreases the risk of urosepsis associated with acute surgical intervention. Shown are two types of nephrostomy tubes: the Malecot (top) tube, and the pigtail catheter (bottom). Percutaneous nephrostomy. The needle is positioned in the mid-pole posterior calyx, filled with air. A filter in the inferior vena cava.
Abstract. Reversible ureteral obstruction is not an infrequent complication of gynecologic malignancy or its treatment. In the past, open nephrostomy has been the standard method of management in such patients. 
A. B enefits of Nephrostomy. 1  Nephrostomy is a safe procedure to drain urine from your kidney and can provide you with timely relief from urinary tract obstruction. 2  Failure to perform Nephrostomy on time can result in damage to the renal parenchyma due to back pressure and may lead to renal failure. Nephrostomy tube or catheter can be kept patent by inserting a stent inside it. Nephrostomy can be temporary or permanent. Nephrostomy is a kind of 'Interventional Radiology' procedure.
percutaneous nephrostomy insertion of a catheter through the skin and into the renal pelvis under the guidance of fluorography or ultrasonography; performed for relief of obstruction and to gain access to the upper urinary tract for a variety of procedures, such as dilation of strictures or removal of calculi. 
Definition. Nephrostomy is a procedure in which a catheter (plastic tube) is inserted through the skin and into the kidney to drain it of urine. Urine drains into a bag outside the body. 
Ureteral stenting and nephrostomy help restore urine flow through blocked ureters and return the kidney to normal function. Ureters are long, narrow tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. They can become obstructed – and urine flow blocked – as a result of various conditions. During a nephrostomy, a fluoroscope, or an ultrasound, and a needle are used to place a catheter in the kidney. A catheter is a long, thin plastic tube that is considerably smaller than a pencil lead, or approximately 1/8 inch in diameter.