B. SCREENING VOLUNTEERS. At an initial level, police checks can help to screen those individuals who may not be well suited to work with children by identifying individuals with criminal records involving past abuses or violent crimes. In addition, not all perpetrators of child abuse have a past criminal record, as a number of incidents of child abuse have involved first-time abusers. Nevertheless, police checks are one important step as part of a more comprehensive screening procedure for volunteers and employees who wish to work with children.
1 | DCSI – Screening and police checks for volunteers Screening and police checks for volunteers Choosing the right person for a volunteer role is vital. Many volunteer organisations conduct screening and police checks as part of their recruitment processes. It can also be a requirement under legislation for volunteers working with vulnerable groups, such as children, older people and people with disability.
Police checks for volunteers who work with vulnerable groups such as children, the aged or people with a disability are provided free of charge by South Australia Police to organisations who have a Volunteer Organisation Authorisation Number. Police record checks are also called national police certificates. 
Some volunteer organisations must get a police check for all volunteers as part of their funding arrangements with government departments. You should be told if you need to get a police check when you apply for a volunteering position, as part of the application process or during an interview or information session. You will then need to show your certificate to the volunteer organisation. They may ask to make a copy of the certificate with your consent. The application costs a reduced fee of $15.50 if the volunteering organisation is registered with Victoria Police (and most are). The full fee is currently $33 for a name check and $137 for a name and fingerprint search (typically not required for volunteer roles). Fees are reviewed annually. Check with your volunteer organisation to see if they are registered with Victoria Police for the discounted rate
(8) Individuals who fail to provide the police background check, having been asked to do so, will not be considered for employment or volunteer opportunities. (9) No individual will be placed in employment or volunteer service until the police background check has been received and considered. 
• Exemptions apply to some volunteers and so they are not subject to the same level of scrutiny as other volunteers. • Working with children checks do not screen for all criminal records, they only screen for offences indicating unsuitability for work with children. These offences may vary between states. Cost: $43.35 Processing time: Up to 4 weeks Age requirement: Under 17 years, a police check will be released as a “child police certificate” Further info: http://www.police.qld.gov.au/s ervices/purchase/polcert.htm Working with Children Checks are mandatory for certain volunteers working
Police record checks. Volunteer organisations may ask you to get a criminal or police record check as part of their volunteer screening process. This is to protect volunteers, the people they will be working with and the volunteering organisation. You will then need to show your certificate to the volunteer organisation. They may ask to make a copy of the certificate with your consent. The application costs a reduced fee of $15.50 if the volunteering organisation is registered with Victoria Police (and most are). The full fee is currently $33 for a name check and $137 for a name and fingerprint search (typically not required for volunteer roles). Fees are reviewed annually. Check with your volunteer organisation to see if they are registered with Victoria Police for the discounted rate
Depending on the roles they are performing, volunteers may require either a police check or screening check. A police check is a record of a person’s criminal conviction history. In South Australia, volunteers can apply for a ‘National Police Certificate’, from South Australia Police (SAPOL). Many volunteer organisations conduct screening and police checks as part of their recruitment processes. It can also be a requirement under legislation for volunteers working with vulnerable groups, such as children, older people and people with disability.
However, police checks alone are insufficient for screening potential volunteers and/or employees for a number of reasons. Firstly, information obtained through a police check may not necessarily reflect the most current information or may include clerical errors and omissions. In addition, not all perpetrators of child abuse have a past criminal record, as a number of incidents of child abuse have involved first-time abusers. Nevertheless, police checks are one important step as part of a more comprehensive screening procedure for volunteers and employees who wish to work with children.