Meeting Description. Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are host-defense molecules produced by all living organisms, including bacteria, fungi, plants, invertebrates, and vertebrates. The peptides exhibit potent cytotoxic activity against all microbes, including bacteria, fungi, viruses, and parasites. 
4. Three-Dimensional Structures of Human Antimicrobial Peptides. Three-dimensional structure of human host defense AMPs are helpful to understand the function of AMPs described above. Many short and linear antimicrobial peptides do not have a folded structure free in solution. Three-dimensional structures of human antimicrobial peptides from the α-helical family: (A) and (B) human cathelicidin LL-37 determined by NMR spectroscopy (PDB ID: 2K6O); (C) dermcidin determined by X-ray crystallography (PDB ID, 2YMK); and (...
Classification of Antimicrobial Peptides There are numerous ways for classifying antimicrobial peptides. 1. Based on the biosynthetic machine Natural peptides can be classified as gene coded and non-gene coded (i.e. multiple enzyme systems). 
Human antimicrobial peptides and proteins occupy an important niche in the current research on human host defense and innate immunity [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 279 ]. Except for antimicrobial protein lysozyme, which was found in 1922, most of short cationic peptides were discovered after 1980 (Table 1). Three-dimensional structures of human antimicrobial peptides from the α-helical family: (A) and (B) human cathelicidin LL-37 determined by NMR spectroscopy (PDB ID: 2K6O); (C) dermcidin determined by X-ray crystallography (PDB ID, 2YMK); and (...
Apidaecin-type peptides: biodiversity, structure-function relationships and mode of action. Apidaecins (apidaecin-type peptides) refer to a series of small, proline-rich (Pro-rich), 18- to 20-residue peptides produced by insects. They are the largest group of Pro-rich antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) known to date. 
Various structures of antimicrobial peptides. Antimicrobial peptides, also called host defense peptides are part of the innate immune response found among all classes of life. Fundamental differences exist between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells that may represent targets for antimicrobial peptides. In the competition of bacterial cells and host cells with the antimicrobial peptides, antimicrobial peptides will preferentially interact with the bacterial cell to the mammalian cells, which enables them to kill microorganisms without being significantly toxic to mammalian cells.
Once in a target microbial membrane, the peptide kills target cells through diverse mechanisms. Cathelicidins and defensins are major groups of epidermal AMPs. Decreased levels of these peptides have been noted for patients with atopic dermatitis and Kostmann's syndrome, a congenital neutropenia. 
As the key components of innate immunity, human host defense antimicrobial peptides and proteins (AMPs) play a critical role in warding off invading microbial pathogens. In addition, AMPs can possess other biological functions such as apoptosis, wound healing, and immune modulation. Three-dimensional structures of human antimicrobial peptides from the α-helical family: (A) and (B) human cathelicidin LL-37 determined by NMR spectroscopy (PDB ID: 2K6O); (C) dermcidin determined by X-ray crystallography (PDB ID, 2YMK); and (...
Antimicrobial peptides are classified as either non-ribosomally synthesized peptides or ribosomally synthesized peptides (RAMPs). Non-ribosomally synthesized peptides are found in bacteria and fungi. RAMPs are derived from a diverse range of species, from prokaryotes to humans. Antimicrobial peptides comprise a host’s natural defense against the daily exposure to millions of potential pathogens. These peptides may also possess antiviral, antiparasitic, and antineoplastic activities.
3D Structure of Antimicrobial Peptides 1. Structure annotation The information on the three-dimensional (3D) structure of antimicrobial peptides is annotated in this database from the first version of the APD (Wang & Wang, 2004). It includes methods for structural determination, structural class, structural regions, critical residues, and the type of membrane-mimetic environments. 5. Structural statistics of antimicrobial peptides A list of antimicrobial peptdes with a defined 3D structure can be obtained by searching the APD database. The statistics of a variety of structures is also provided in this database. Go to the Statistic Interface.