The four largest are Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, and Shikoku, which make up about ninety-seven percent of Japan's land area. Japan's population of 126 million is the world's tenth largest. Approximately 9.1 million people live in Tokyo, the capital city of Japan, which is the second largest city proper in the OECD. Located in the Pacific Ocean, it lies to the east of the Sea of Japan, the East China Sea, China, North Korea, South Korea and Russia, stretching from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to the East China Sea and Taiwan in the south.
Confidence votes 8. Large islands- 4 (Hokkaido, Honshu, Kyushu, Shiknhvgftfoku) These are also the four main islands in Japan. Small islands-There are over 3,000 small islands that make up Japan. Yes. Japan consists of the four large islands of Hokkaido, Honshu, Shikoku, Kyushu, and about three thousand smaller islands.
Honshu is the largest island and the Japanese core area which includes Tokyo and Osaka-Kyoto. Honshu is the world's seventh largest island. Shikoku and Kyushu are in the south (Kyushu is in the extreme southwest and Shikoku is to its east). Besides these four islands, Japan includes 2,000 additional smaller islands. 
Japan is an island group (archipelago) of 6,852 islands. There are four many islands in Japan: Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu and Shikoku. Honshu is the main island and the location of cities like Tokyo, Yokohama, Osaka and Kobe. Hokkaido is Japan's second largest island. It is north of Honshu. That's where Sapporo is. Kyushu and Shikoku are close to the south of Honshu.
• Shikoku. Shikoku is the smallest of Japan's main islands with a total area of 7,260 square miles (18,800 sq km). This area is made up of main island as well as the small islets surrounding it. It is located to the south of Honshu and to the east of Kyushu and has a population of 4,414,955 (2005 estimate) (map). The largest city of Shikoku is Matsuyama and the island is divided into four prefectures.
The Japanese archipelago consists of thousands of islands, but the Japan of world maps -- the bow-shaped country in the Pacific curling around the east coast of continental Asia -- is made up of four main islands: Hokkaido, Honshu, Kyushu and Shikoku. 
Japan is made up of over 3,000 islands, many of which are covered with mountains and forests. Japan is located within the Pacific Ring of Fire, meaning it lies along the edge of the Pacific tectonic plate. As a result, Japan has many volcanoes and earthquakes from the movement of the plates. Some of Japan’s active volcanoes are Unzen, Sakura-jima, and Asama. Mount Fuji is also a volcano, though it last erupted in 1707. The earthquakes resulted a tsunami with waves up to 40 meters high (133 feet), which destroyed many cities in Japan. Over 15,000 lives were lost in the Japanese earthquake and tsunami of March 2011.
· just now. Report Abuse. There are four main islands which make up Japan: From the north to the south: Hokkaido, Honshu the main island, Shikoku, and Kyushu. More than 4,000 smaller islands surround these four main islands. Japan is divided into 47 Prefectures. Friend · 9 years ago
Its capital is Tokyo and it has a population of 126,475,664 people (July 2011 estimate). Japan covers an area of 145,914 square miles (377,915 sq km) that is spread out over its more than 6,500 islands. Four main islands make up Japan however and they are where its main population centers are located. This area is made up of main island as well as the small islets surrounding it. It is located to the south of Honshu and to the east of Kyushu and has a population of 4,414,955 (2005 estimate) (map). The largest city of Shikoku is Matsuyama and the island is divided into four prefectures.