So much for technical analysis and prices below $2.50. Silver Will Be The King Precious Metal Performer. As the public and market are lulled back to sleep (presently) on the value of silver, there will come a time in the future when it will be impossible to acquire a single ounce... only at much higher prices.
1 Ian Williams: $165; Silver prices are set to embark on “a sustained bull market” that will see prices rocket…to $165/oz by the end of October 2015. 2  Ron Rosen: $150; I expect the gold price to hit $4,300 in early 2016 and the silver price at over $148 sometime in early 2016. 1 Rob McEwen: $200; S ilver is headed to $200 in the next 4 years [1.e. by 2016 2  ].
The price or value of silver will move up much higher in percentage terms compared to gold in the future due to its affordability to the masses. Technical analysis will be worthless in forecasting this meteoric rise --just as Charles Nenner's technical analysis failed to see the rise in the price of natural gas in 2014. As the public and market are lulled back to sleep (presently) on the value of silver, there will come a time in the future when it will be impossible to acquire a single ounce... only at much higher prices.
At $554 per ounce, the entire gold inventory has a worth of $886.4 billion. At $10.33 per ounce, the entire silver inventory’s worth $3.1 billion. So, the total mass of above-ground gold’s dollar-worth outweighs silver’s by 285 times. Even though silver’s five times rarer. Value of Silver vs. Value of the Dollar: Now, Trade Your Dollars for Actual Gold and Silver. (I’ll give you a hint – it’s a new, simple way to trade your dollars for actual physical silver and gold. It’s a way for you to personally return to the cherished and forgotten gold standard.
Please try again later. http://www.futuremoneytrends.com. FutureMoneyTrends.com believes just as gold went from $35 to $850 per ounce in a decade(1969-1980) and palladium went from $200 to nearly $1,000 in just 3 years(1997-2000), we believe over the next decade silver investors will be rewarded greatly! Category. License. 
However, silver will surprise the markets in the future as overwhelming demand will outstrip supply in a big way. The key factor that will drive up the price (value) of silver much higher than gold in percentage terms, will be its affordability. As the price of gold heads back above $1,500 and silver to $30, an individual can buy a heck of a lot more silver than gold. As the public and market are lulled back to sleep (presently) on the value of silver, there will come a time in the future when it will be impossible to acquire a single ounce... only at much higher prices.
Before this is all over silver will reverse history and trade at a 1-1+ ratio to gold. That means at $2,000 gold we will see $2,000+ per ounce price for silver. That's how much potential price energy is inherent in silver due to 100 years of price manipulation. I'll be conservative here since our price is already above the price of gold and just call it a REASON for silver to stay high. Should the price of gold take off silver will take off with it maintaining a high ratio. 
SILVER: THE OPPORTUNITY OF A LIFETIME Let's start this by looking at the historic value of silver. A day's wage, in silver, for skilled labor about 100 years ago, ranged from being a silver dime, to a silver quarter during the great depression in the 1930's, to as much as a silver dollar. 
In fact, if the argument for a precious metal’s worth takes its power solely based on rarity, then you might think that silver should be worth MORE than gold. And yet, ounce per ounce, gold’s 5.33 times more beloved than her slighted silvery sister. Value of Silver vs. Value of the Dollar: Now, Trade Your Dollars for Actual Gold and Silver. (I’ll give you a hint – it’s a new, simple way to trade your dollars for actual physical silver and gold. It’s a way for you to personally return to the cherished and forgotten gold standard.