No, the Senate and the House of Representatives are both part of the Legislative branch. The Legislative branch creates and passes laws; the Judicial branch, headed by the US … Supreme Court, evaluates challenged laws to ensure they are constitutional. The Judicial Branch consists of the the trial and appellate courts (and their judicial employees) Congress established under its authority in Article III of the US Constitution. These are limited to: While there are many other courts in the federal court system, most are part of the Legislative Branch of government
Where the Executive and Legislative branches are elected by the people, members of the Judicial Branch are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The Supreme Court of the United States. The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the land and the only part of the federal judiciary specifically required by the Constitution. The Constitution does not stipulate the number of Supreme Court Justices; the number is set instead by Congress.
Judicial Branch. The judicial branch of government is made up of the court system. The Supreme Court is the highest court in the land. Article III of the Constitution established this Court and all other Federal courts were created by Congress. 
Lesson Summary. The judicial branch is one of three branches of the federal branch. The judicial branch includes criminal and civil courts and helps interpret the United States Constitution. As we learned, the most important part of the judicial branch is the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court's role is to interpret the Constitution and limit the powers of the other branches of government. The Courts and the Supreme Court. The main body of the judicial branch is the Supreme Court. It is the top court in the United States, and no other court can challenge it. The main job of the Supreme Court is to interpret the
Our federal government has three parts. They are the Executive, (President and about 5,000,000 workers) Legislative (Senate and House of Representatives) and Judicial (Supreme Court and lower Courts). The President of the United States administers the Executive Branch of our government. He enforces the laws that the Legislative Branch (Congress) makes. The Judicial part of our federal government includes the Supreme Court and 9 Justices. They are special judges who interpret laws according to the Constitution. These justices only hear cases that pertain to issues related
The Judicial Branch of the US government consists of the Article III (constitutional) courts in the federal court system. The US Supreme Court is head of the Judicial Branch … , but all Article III courts are part of that branch. The Judicial Branch is usually made up of the Supreme Court (or Constitutional Court) plus several lower courts. The Supreme Court and such Federal Courts as the Congress est … ablishes. The courts of the US, judges, etx. The Supreme Court
Federal Courts Outside the Judicial Branch. Some federal courts and adjudicative bodies are not part of the judicial branch. These courts are served by judges who do not have the Article III protections of service during good behavior or exemption from salary reductions. 
These are limited to: US District Courts (trial) US Court of International Trade (trial) US Court of Appeals Circuit Courts (appellate) Supreme Court of the United States (primarily highest appellate) While there are many other courts in the federal court system, most are part of the Legislative Branch of government. The Judicial Branch is usually made up of the Supreme Court (or Constitutional Court) plus several lower courts. The Supreme Court and such Federal Courts as the Congress est … ablishes. The courts of the US, judges, etx. The Supreme Cour