Pain. Osteoarthritis For symptoms of osteoarthritis, the recommended dosage for regular diclofenac tablets is 50 mg two or three times a day (for Cataflam or Voltaren ®) or 75 mg twice daily (for Voltaren only). As always, do not adjust your dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. Pain The standard recommended oral diclofenac dosage for pain is 50 mg three times daily (for Cataflam ®) or 25 mg four times daily (for Zipsor ®). For the patch form (Flector ®), the recommended dosing is one patch applied to the most painful area every 12 hours
The recommended dosage of Zipsor for the treatment of mild to moderate pain is 25 mg four times a day. There is only one standard dose of Zipsor ™ (diclofenac potassium), regardless of your age or weight. As is always the case, do not adjust your dosage unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so.
Diclofenac is normally taken to relieve pain, swelling, or inflammation caused by injuries and conditions such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, painful menstruation periods, migraines, and ankylosing splondylitis. Diclofenac belongs to group of drugs known as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Diclofenac is the generic name for a prescription drug that’s available under a number of brand names, such as Voltaren, Pennsaid, Solaraze, Zipsor, Cataflam, and Zorvolex.
Zipsor Dosing for Pain. The standard recommended Zipsor dosage for mild to moderate acute (short-term) pain is 25 mg four times daily. As with all NSAIDs, it is recommended that people take Zipsor at the lowest effective dosage for the shortest period of time, to reduce the risk of serious Zipsor side effects. There is only one standard dose of Zipsor ™ (diclofenac potassium), regardless of your age or weight. As is always the case, do not adjust your dosage unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so.
Diclofenac (INN; see trade names below) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) taken or applied to reduce inflammation and as an analgesic reducing pain in certain conditions. It is supplied as or contained in medications under a variety of trade names. Diclofenac as potassium salt can be found throughout the Middle East in 25-mg and 50-mg doses (Cataflam). Solaraze (3% diclofenac sodium gel) is topically applied, twice a day for three months, to manage the skin condition known as actinic or solar keratosis.
USES: Diclofenac is used to relieve pain and swelling (inflammation) from various mild to moderate painful conditions. It is used to treat muscle aches, backaches, dental pain, menstrual cramps, and sports injuries. It also reduces pain, swelling, and joint stiffness caused by arthritis. Reducing these symptoms helps you do more of your normal daily activities.
How to use Zipsor oral. Diclofenac is used to relieve pain and swelling (inflammation) from various mild to moderate painful conditions. It is used to treat muscle aches, backaches, dental pain, menstrual cramps, and sports injuries. It also reduces pain, swelling, and joint stiffness caused by arthritis. Reducing these symptoms helps you do more of your normal daily activities. This medication is known as a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). If you are treating a chronic condition such as arthritis, ask your doctor about non-drug treatments and/or using other medications to treat your pain.