Simmer covered for at least 2 hours. Rump steaks are a tough meat and will require slow cooking (braising). You may wish transfer the ingredients to a crock-pot for this process. When the steaks are fork tender, remove them to a platter in a warm place. Directions. Season the steaks on both sides with salt and pepper. Heat 1/8 cup of the canola oil in a large saute pan over medium-high heat. Dredge the steaks in flour, and shake to remove excess. Sear the steaks on both sides, remove from pan, and set aside on a utility platter.
If you chose not to rub and marinate the steak in advance, you may want to rub it with seasonings like salt, pepper or a pre-mixed rub while you preheat the oven to 450° F (232° C).Before placing the steak in the oven to roast, Searing the meat over High Heat to Brown it is a good idea. Carry Over Cooking will take the Rump Steak the rest of the way. If you have a musical curiosity, as well as a culinary one, you may find Fats Waller’s 1939 song, Rump Steak Serenade (the link goes to YouTube) the perfect musical accompaniment as you roast your own Rump Steak.
1 Put the Roast in the oven and sear for 20 minutes. 2  Then add the water, the chopped onion and reduce the temperature to 275 degrees. 3  Cook for 20 minutes per lb. 4  I like mine rare so that is what you will get if you cook for this period of time. 1 Now Salt and Pepper the rest of the roast. 2  Put the Roast in the oven and sear for 20 minutes. 3  Then add the water, the chopped onion and reduce the temperature to 275 degrees. 4  Cook for 20 minutes per lb. 5
1 How long it takes for meat to get tender in a braise or slow cook method depends on the size of the cut, thickness of the cut, and the amount of collagen in it. 2  Working cuts like chuck, rump, neck, shin, etc have lots of collagen and need a longer slow cook to break it all down. Things to remember: 1  How long it takes for meat to get tender in a braise or slow cook method depends on the size of the cut, thickness of the cut, and the amount of collagen in it.
If you don't have a crock pot you can cook it in a dutch oven in the oven with low heat (300 degrees) which will give more even heat than if you simmer it on the stove top. The lower temperature of using a crock pot or slow oven will insure tender meat. Higher heat is what causes lean cuts of meat to toughen. 
You can also accomplish searing the Steaks with the oven, saving clean-up, by Roasting the Steaks(s) with High Heat, we suggest 450° F (232° C), for 25 minutes uncovered. They should brown nicely at which point you can reduce the heat to 300°F (149° C) and Finish Cook the steaks to Medium or Medium Well. Carry Over Cooking will take the Rump Steak the rest of the way. If you have a musical curiosity, as well as a culinary one, you may find Fats Waller’s 1939 song, Rump Steak Serenade (the link goes to YouTube) the perfect musical accompaniment as you roast your own Rump Steak.
1. Preheat the oven to 220ºC. Rub the cut garlic cloves over the lamb rumps, brush. the lamb with a little oil, sprinkle with thyme leaves and season with salt and pepper. 2. Place the lamb rumps on a rack in a roasting dish. Roast for 15 minutes for rare, 20-25 minutes for medium, or 25-30 minutes for well done.
It's also the perfect type of meat to cook in a crock pot or slow cooker. This article describes three methods of cooking rump roast: braised in the oven, cooked in a slow cooker, and marinated. 1  Prep time (Braised): 15 minutes. 2  Cook time: 90 minutes. 3  Total time: 115 minutes. Place in the oven and roast for 1 1/2 hours, or 30 minutes per pound. 7. Test the roast to make sure it's done. Remove the lid or foil from the pan and insert a meat thermometer into the roast. 1  Rare meat is done when its temperature has reached 125 degrees Fahrenheit(52 degrees Celsius).