Epilobium Parviflorum has an inflammation-inhibiting and healing effect on acute and chronic inflammation of the prostate and can help to reduce the gland to its normal size. It is recommended that all men over the age of 50 take this herb regularly as a preventative and to maintain prostate and bladder health.
Epilobium parviflorum has been used for a long time as a medicinal plant for the treatment of various prostate symptoms, like prostate adenoma and associated disorders. Epilobii herba, willow herb, has not been officially recognized by any of European pharmacopoeias.
Information about the herb Willow Herb. Epilobium parviflorum, also known as Small-flowered Willow Herb is part of the Onagrariacae plant family. There are several species of Willow Herb that can be used medicinally, nine species of which are native to Great Britain.
In one study, both the large-flowered willowherb (Epilobium angustifolium) and small-flowered willowherb E. parviflorum were found to reduce inflammatory prostaglandins in the carrageenin-induced rat paw edema test; in this study, E. angustifolia was found to be 5 times more powerful than E. parviflori.
Epilobium Parviflorum is a herbal treatment for Prostate problems. It helps in Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia. Take Epilobium Parviflorum for enlarged Prostate, this will help in reducing pain and discomfort during Urination. It fights against Prostate infections. It reduces the risk of Urinary tract
Physical Characteristics. Epilobium parviflorum is a PERENNIAL growing to 0.6 m (2ft). It is in flower from Jul to August. The flowers are hermaphrodite (have both male and female organs) and are pollinated by Bees, hoverflies, self.The plant is self-fertile. It is noted for attracting wildlife.
Small-flowered willowherb, Epilobium parviflorum SCHREBER [Fam. Onagraceae], is widespread in Central and Eastern Europe and in disturbed areas of North America. Epilobium species have been used as remedies in folk medicine, particularly in Central Europe, for the treatment of prostate disorders and abnormal growths.