By Heather Rhoades. Ficus trees are a common plant in the home and office, mainly due to the fact that they look like a typical tree with a single trunk and a spreading canopy. But for all of their popularity, ficus plants are finicky. 
This popular ficus is an oriental-looking tree with its narrow leaves and often braided trunk. It is a hybrid bred for growing in pots indoors. It requires very low care and likes indirect light. Many silk ficus trees are mimics of this plant. Ficus trees are a favorite plant of many homeowners as a tree to add to the decor of their home.
The Weeping fig, (Ficus benjamina), also known as the Benjamin's fig, or Ficus tree and often sold in stores as just ficus, is a species of flowering plant in the family Moraceae, native to Asia and Australia. It is the official tree of Bangkok. Ficus benjamina is a tree reaching 30 metres (98 ft) tall in natural conditions, with gracefully drooping branchlets and glossy leaves 6–13 cm (2–5 in), oval with an acuminate tip.
Most ficus bonsai trees can produce aerial roots in their natural habitat, which are often presented in appealing bonsai creations with many aerial root pillars or root over rock styles. To enable aerial root growth in our homes a humidity of nearly 100% must be achieved artificially. Leaf pruning can be used to reduce leaf size, as some ficus bonsai species normally grow large leaves. If a considerable thickening of the trunk is desired, the ficus can be left to grow freely for one or two years.
The hundreds of members of the ficus genus (Ficus spp.) are known for their wide-ranging roots, from the common fig tree (Ficus carica) to the Indian banyan (Ficus benghalensis) to the Ashvattha, the sacred fig of the Hindus with its roots in heaven (Ficus religiousa). 
Ficus trees are a popular houseplant that can be found in many homes. But the attractive and easy to care for ficus trees still have the one frustrating habit of dropping leaves seemingly without reason. Fungus – Ficus trees are also occasionally affected by fungus, which can make the tree drop its leaves. Often, a ficus tree with a fungus will have yellow or brown spots on the leaves. To correct treat this reason for ficus tree leaves falling off, use fungicide (like neem oil) on the tree.
Ficus (/ˈfaɪkəs/ or /ˈfiːkəs/) is a genus of about 850 species of woody trees, shrubs, vines, epiphytes and hemiepiphytes in the family Moraceae. Many fig species are grown for their fruits, though only Ficus carica is cultivated to any extent for this purpose. The fig fruits, important as both food and traditional medicine, contain laxative substances, flavonoids, sugars, vitamins A and C, acids and enzymes.
The genus Ficus consists of more than 800 species, many of which are desirable foliage plants. Most ornamental Ficus are used as interior trees; however, a few are shrublike or grow as vines (Henley and Poole 1989). 
Indoor ficus like the bright light of southern exposures. The Ficus family includes a large number of species including the rubber plant (Ficus elastica), weeping fig (Ficus benjamina) and fiddle-leaf fig (Ficus lyrata). Ficus grown as houseplants are much smaller than their outdoor counterparts, which grow in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 10 through 12. Most ficus grown indoors are woody tree-like plants with single or multi-stemmed trunk
Ficus Plants Guide. The ficus genus of ornamental plants is a range of species which are very popular for growing indoors, whether in a house, conservatory, office, or hotel. They are not hard plants to grow; most people just above beginner level can grow and maintain them very well. The fiddle leaf ficus is a tree type plant with the largest leaves of all from this genus. This species is sensitive to low light and cold temperatures, so a grower must be cautious when growing the lyrata indoors. It grows up to 3 metres tall which makes it a brilliant ornamental plant for rooms with tall ceilings.