Most cells have: 1  A nucleus – controlling the activity of the cell. 2  All cells have these at one point. 3  Cytoplasm – where chemical reactions occur. 4  Inside the cytoplasm are enzymes which speed up these reactions. 5  A cell membrane – to control the passage of substances in and out of the cell. Most cells have: 1  A nucleus – controlling the activity of the cell. 2  Cytoplasm – where chemical reactions occur. 3  A cell membrane – to control the passage of substances in and out of the cell. 4  A Mitochondria which is where the energy is released from.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a structure called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. The cell's chromosomes are also housed within the nucleus
The Cell Nucleus: The cell nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is the command center of a eukaryotic cell and is commonly the most prominent organelle in a cell. Like the cell membrane, the nuclear envelope consists of phospholipids that form a lipid bilayer. The envelope helps to maintain the shape of the nucleus and assists in regulating the flow of molecules into and out of the nucleus through nuclear pores.
Animal and plant cells have a nucleus, cytoplasm, mitochondria, ribosomes and a cell membrane. Plant cells have chloroplasts for photosynthesis, a vacuole and cell wall. Cell membranes allow certain substances into and out of the cell. All cell types have ribosomes for making proteins. Most cells contain DNA but bacterial cells do not have a nucleus as the DNA is simply found in the cytoplasm. To see a larger image, click on the picture. This is a diagram of an animal cell.
Distinguishing Characteristics: The cell nucleus is bound by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. Like the cell membrane, the nuclear envelope consists of phospholipids that form a lipid bilayer. The envelope helps to maintain the shape of the nucleus and assists in regulating the flow of molecules into and out of the nucleus through nuclear pores. Chromosomes are located within the nucleus
Animal cell nucleus is a membrane bound organelle. It is surrounded by double membrane. The nucleus communicates with the surrounding cell cytoplasm through the nuclear pores. The DNA in the nucleus is responsible for the hereditary characteristics and protein synthesis. Plant Cell Nucleus. Plant cell nucleus is a double-membrane bound organelle. It controls the activities of the cell and is known as the master mind or the control center of the cell. The plant cell wall has two layers-the outer membrane and the inner membrane, which encloses a tiny space known as perinuclear space.
All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole
The nucleus, often thought as as the centre of a cell, contains all the genetic. information of a cell (the cells chromosomes), it controls the activities of the cell. Cytoplasm surrounds the nucleus within the cell walls. It is where reactions take place in the cell. The cell membrane controls the movement of chemicals in and out of the cell. The cell wall, which is made up of cellulose, strengthens the cell. Chloroplast contain chlorophyll, and are used in photosynthesis.