My second dilemma was making sure I researched my product, I love Laminex as a company I quite often have used their showroom for my own personal decisions and have taken clients in there to help them with their decisions. I was told the Diamond Gloss was extremely tough and scratch resistant. And no, nothing has been dropped on the bench. The deeper marks are scratches, not chips. Many years ago I had blackwood timber benches and they didn’t scratch like the Diamond Gloss does.
This is a shame to hear, have you contacted Laminex in your area at all, if you feel it has scratched outside of normal usability and warranty information you should definatley ask for the area representative to look at why your diamond gloss is scratching so easily. I was told the Diamond Gloss was extremely tough and scratch resistant. And no, nothing has been dropped on the bench. The deeper marks are scratches, not chips. Many years ago I had blackwood timber benches and they didn’t scratch like the Diamond Gloss does.
Joined: 15 Feb 2009Posts: 150Location: Adelaide. Bronze Member. I've had my kitchen with Diamond Gloss Pure Mineralstone benchtops for a few months now, so thought I should share my review. Whilst it does look awesome it does scratch I already have two scratches (about 1cm long) and in bright sun it is very obvious. 
One of the new products I loved learning about was the Diamond Gloss product that you see in the picture above. If you don’t have the budgets of The Block (think Josh and Jenna’s kitchen) then this product is for you. I was told the Diamond Gloss was extremely tough and scratch resistant. And no, nothing has been dropped on the bench. The deeper marks are scratches, not chips. Many years ago I had blackwood timber benches and they didn’t scratch like the Diamond Gloss does.
^Yep. Your builder is probably familiar with the old laminex gloss range. i've used it before & it's true it does scratch. Just make sure you specify the Diamond Gloss range, which is relatively new. Check it out on the laminex website. I think they talk up its scratch resisitance. Hi there ring09, We recently did a kitchen renovation and I used Persian Stone diamond gloss laminex, we also were told about the scratching possibilities but so far 12 months on not a scratch. I've even cut directly onto the bench with a butter knife and nothing kids and all it still looks wonderful
• 30 colours • SUPERIOR scuff resistance • HIGH GLOSS finish DIAMONDGLOSS ® surfaces. Combining strength and beauty, LAMINEX ® DIAMONDGLOSS ® surfaces is a range of high gloss laminates that are not only visually appealing, but are superior to traditional gloss laminates, due to their high MARk and SCUFF resistance. For an indication of colour or woodgrain in larger sample pieces call 0800 99 99 39. Standard sheet sizes 3595mm x 1395mm, 3595mm x 695mm and 1795mm x 1395mm. Diamond Gloss is not recommended in high wear areas.
I agree 100% was told by sales person that diamond gloss was scratch resistant, moved into our new home 3 months ago and have been very careful and it is covered in sratches and very hard to keep clean, this was our biggest regret in building our new home. I was told the Diamond Gloss was extremely tough and scratch resistant. And no, nothing has been dropped on the bench. The deeper marks are scratches, not chips. Many years ago I had blackwood timber benches and they didn’t scratch like the Diamond Gloss does.
The colours of the photographs depicted in this brochure are as close to the LAMINEX DIAMONDGLOSS surfaces range as photographic lighting and modern printing processes allow. Dark colours and gloss finishes require more care and maintenance than light-coloured and lower-gloss surfaces. The Laminex Group recommends the use of mild household cleaning products for dark colours and gloss finishes, please visit our website, as above, for specific care and cleaning information. For an indication of colour or woodgrain in larger sample pieces call 0800 99 99 39. Standard sheet sizes 3595mm x 1395mm, 3595mm x 695mm and 1795mm x 1395mm. Diamond Gloss is not recommended in high wear areas.