Some body types gain weight easily and are also more susceptible to cellulite. The Body Shaping Diet is designed to stimulate the metabolic rate of each fat cell by providing it with the correct proportions of nutrients, vitamins, minerals, water and hormones. 
His basic theory proposed that there are basically three body types and each body type has a specific personality associated with it. The theories that Sheldon presented has become a central vein running through literature and research with respect to weight loss, exercise, and bodybuilding. In Ayurvedic medicine that evolved from five thousand-year-old Sanskrit teachings, body types and their associated personalities were defined as Vata, Pitta, and Kapha. If we go back to our high school/college days you will probably remember a guy by the name of William H. Sheldon.
These body types aren’t set in stone. In fact, most people have a combination of two body types. These combinations are either ectomorph/mesomorph or mesomorph/endomorph. It is not uncommon to find a pure mesomorph that gains weight like an endomorph for example. Given the information above you should be able to identify your body type. Your body type influences how you respond to diet and training. Understanding your body type; Ectomorph, Endomorph, or mesomorph can help you to strategically plan your strength training and diet regiment.
In fact, most guys have a combination of two body types. These combinations are either ectomorph/mesomorph or mesomorph/endomorph. It is not uncommon to find a pure mesomorph that gains weight like an endomorph for example. So it’s important to be able to identify and understand your body type. Different body types require different training methods and diet plans. So listed below are the 3 male body types: ectomorph, mesomorph and endomorph, along with their characteristics.
Not every body's created equal. Before you start your training and nutrition regimen, it's a good idea to figure out your body type. Knowing which of the three basic body types you're closest to will help you better tailor your diet and exercise plan and set realistic, attainable goals that pave the way to your success.
There are three basic human body types: the endomorph, characterized by a preponderance of body fat; the mesomorph, marked by a well-developed musculature; and the ectomorph, distinguished by a lack of much fat or muscle tissue. Before you start your training and nutrition regimen, it's a good idea to figure out your body type. Knowing which of the three basic body types you're closest to will help you better tailor your diet and exercise plan and set realistic, attainable goals that pave the way to your success.
So, while these different body types are real and they will make certain things easier or harder for those of us who didn’t end up with the body type we wish we had, we can ALL still set up our diet and workout in a way that will allow us to get the body we want. More importantly, these different body types play a role in how easy or hard it is to change how our bodies look. Think about it…. Some people (ectomorphs) seem to eat whatever they want and never gain weight. Some people (endomorphs) seem to get fat no matter how much they workout or how little they eat.
So you want to know what the three body types are and how you can find out which one applies to you. We’ll explain each type and some common attributes that make up each body type. Each body type will also be explained in terms of strengths and weaknesses. 
The Most Accurate Body Shape Guide Available! We developed our body shape guide and body shape calculator based on a study of over 6000 females. The majority of women fall into one of the 8 female body types above. Prior to the study, most females were told they were either an apple or a pear body type. This study revealed that women have a much broader spectrum of body shapes. Once you know what body type you are, you can begin to work with your body shape rather than against it when choosing clothing and swimsuits. As females, our body types often change over time. Whether the change is due to puberty, childbirth, weight loss or weight gain, we are often left at a loss as to how to compliment or even understand our new body shapes. ShopYourShape can be very useful tool when it comes to understanding your new
The Ectomorph Body Type. The Ectomorph is a form of opposite of the Endomorph. Physically, they tend to have: 1  Narrow shoulders and hips. 2  A thin and narrow face, with a high forehead. 3  A thin and narrow chest and abdomen. 4  Very little body fat. 5  Thin legs and arms. In Ayurvedic medicine that evolved from five thousand-year-old Sanskrit teachings, body types and their associated personalities were defined as Vata, Pitta, and Kapha. If we go back to our high school/college days you will probably remember a guy by the name of William H. Sheldon.