The species has been spotted 2,500 miles (4,000 kilometers) up the Amazon River in South America and dwell in Lake Nicaragua, a freshwater lake in Central America. Bull sharks have traveled up the Mississippi River as far north as Illinois and are regularly spotted in India's Ganges. Their ability to tolerate freshwater is rooted in salt retention. Sharks must retain salt inside their bodies. Without it, their cells will rupture and cause bloating and death.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Peekay Than. Confidence votes 12. Yes. alligators usually live in the swampy areas in central and southern Mississippi. But they have been as far North as TN. Maybe Southern Missouri at most. Afterwards it is too cold. Many people have released alligators in the Mississippi river .. Not to mention the ones that are native to the Mississippi bayou's that have found their way to the rive … r..
Answers. Best Answer: They have been found as far up the Mississippi as Arkansas. Here's some info. about it: Alligators and humans have shared marshes, swamps, rivers and lakes of the Gulf Coast and Southeastern United States for many centuries. The original range of the species extended as far north as New Jersey, southward to the South Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, inland to the confluence of the Arkansas River with the Mississippi River and westward to the 100th meridian in Texas (Kellogg 1929, Lauder 1965).
Only three days into the start of Mississippi's alligator hunting season, NBC News reported that Dustin Brockman of Vicksburg and his hunting party nabbed a record-breaking 13-foot, 727-pound gator on Saturday. 
Very old, large male alligators reach an expected maximum size of up to 4.6 m (15 ft) in length, weighing up to 453 kg (999 lb), while females reach a maximum of 3 m (9.8 ft). On rare occasions, a large, old male may grow to an even greater length. The largest alligator scientifically verified in Florida for the period from 1977 to 1993 was reportedly 4.23 m (13.9 ft) and weighed 473 kg (1,043 lb), although another specimen (size estimated from skull) may have measured 4.54 m (14.9 ft). However, American alligators do not normally reach such extreme sizes
It is one of two living species in the genus Alligator within the family Alligatoridae; it is larger than the other extant alligator species, the Chinese alligator. Adult male American alligators measure up to 3.4 to 4.6 m (11 to 15 ft) in length, and can weigh up to 453 kg (999 lb). Females are smaller, measuring around 3 m (9.8 ft). The largest alligator scientifically verified in Florida for the period from 1977 to 1993 was reportedly 4.23 m (13.9 ft) and weighed 473 kg (1,043 lb), although another specimen (size estimated from skull) may have measured 4.54 m (14.9 ft). However, American alligators do not normally reach such extreme sizes
Today, the alligator's range extends east to the Carolinas, west to Texas and north to Arkansas. http://www.tpwd.state.tx.us/huntwild/wil... and the following site gives all the states where they are found: Alabama, Arkansas, North & South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Texas. The original range of the species extended as far north as New Jersey, southward to the South Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, inland to the confluence of the Arkansas River with the Mississippi River and westward to the 100th meridian in Texas (Kellogg 1929, Lauder 1965).
American alligators are most commonly found in the southeastern United States, such as Florida, Louisiana, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, and Texas. Florida and Louisiana have the largest populations of alligators in America, with each inhabited by around 1.5 million alligators. The only other species of alligator, the Alligator sinensis, is found in China and is a much smaller version of the American alligator. The United States is the only country in the world where alligators and crocodiles live side by side.