Best Answer: Shelled Peanuts Shelled peanuts should be stored in airtight containers, ideally in a refrigerator or freezer in order to preserve freshness. They will remain fresh for three to six months. Unshelled Peanuts Peanuts still in their shell need to be stored in a cool, dark place away from moisture. It depends in part as to how they are stored, and what 'state' they are in. For example, raw peanuts should be stored in an airtight container, ideally in the fridge. This will help prevent the oils from causing rancidity, and they should last several months.
Oranges will stay fresh for about 3 weeks to 1 month. If an orange goes from a grove to a warehouse and stays there for a few days to weeks before making it to the shelf, it w … ill steadily degrade in quality.     Never store citrus fruit in plastic bags or film-wrapped trays. 
Unopened and stored in a cool, dry area, Jif peanut butter will last for about two years (refer to the Best If Used By date). After opening, you can keep Jif peanut butter about three months on the pantry shelf. If unopened, Jif To Go ™ peanut butter and Jif Natural peanut butter spread will each last one year (refer to the Best If Used By date).
While our tables list the time frame that nuts are good beyond their printed date, if you can't find any date on your package, you can expect most shelled varieties to last about 2 years. For opened packages, it's best to take a whiff before serving. How long do nuts last? Nuts are a healthy protein snack choice because they are high in unsaturated fats that help lower bad cholesterol (LDL) and raise the good cholesterol (HDL). The shelf life of nuts depends on a variety of factors, such as the best by date, the type of nut and how they are stored.
Dried raw peanuts stored at room temperature and humidity are typically good 1 year and beyond, in my experience.Boiled peanuts stored in the refrigerator below 40 degrees Fahrenheit should be good for about 10 days to 2 weeks. Dave,It depends. How long peanuts stay fresh depends on their kernel moisture content and their storage conditions.Green raw peanuts are fresh dug from the ground and moist. Green peanuts have between 35% to 50% kernel moisture content. They must be stored cold and dry, or else they must be frozen for longer storage
by: Bret. Sirezen,When refrigerated, boiled peanuts stay fresh for about 7 to 10 days. Frozen boiled peanuts are good for at least 6 months, perhaps up to one year. Boiled peanuts must be refrigerated or frozen or they will spoil quickly. Think of them as boiled beans, since peanuts are legumes.Water quality can affect the texture of boiled peanuts if the water is full of minerals, so called hard water.
Boiled Peanuts One of the drawbacks of boiled peanuts is that they have a very short shelf life unless refrigerated or frozen. If you leave them out on the kitchen counter for 3 to 4 days, they become slimy and smelly! Roasted Peanuts Shelf Life: As long as they remain in a vacuum pack, they should be good for one year. Source(s): Chetak. It depends in part as to how they are stored, and what 'state' they are in. For example, raw peanuts should be stored in an airtight container, ideally in the fridge. This will help prevent the oils from causing rancidity, and they should last several months.
Green peanuts may last up to 2 weeks in the refrigerator below 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Frozen green peanuts will still be good for at least 6 months, perhaps up to 1 year.Raw dried peanuts have been carefully dried to 10% moisture. Dave,It depends. How long peanuts stay fresh depends on their kernel moisture content and their storage conditions.Green raw peanuts are fresh dug from the ground and moist. Green peanuts have between 35% to 50% kernel moisture content. They must be stored cold and dry, or else they must be frozen for longer storag