How to claim a short-term advance. You apply for a short-term advance of universal credit through Jobcentre Plus. You can apply at the same time as making in your claim for universal credit or afterwards. To have the most chance of success you must provide as much information as you can about your circumstances and financial need. Key advice. You may be short of money while you wait for universal credit payments to start. A short-term advance of universal credit could help. Find out who qualifies and how to apply.
Can I apply before I reach my birthday? A. You can. Social Security will accept your application for early benefits when you're 61 years 9 months. Regardless of how old you are, the agency generally recommends that you apply three months before you would like the first payment to arrive.
Best Answer: Every bank has their own different policies about how long you have to wait before you can apply with them again. But there are no rules about when you can apply for one somewhere else-you can apply for as many cards with as many banks as often as you want. Whether you SHOULD do that or not is another matter. Every time you apply for a credit card, the query made by the bank shows up on your credit report, and these queries affect your credit score. A large number of queries in a short period of time has a negative impact on your credit.
You cannot apply for benefits yet. The earliest date you can apply is 4 months before you want your benefits to start. We cannot process your application if you file for benefits more than four months in advance. The earliest age at which you can begin receiving your Social Security retirement benefits is 62. You can apply for your benefits 3 months before you turn 62 if you want your payments to start at that age.
The amount of advance you can get depends on the amount of universal credit you are likely to get and how long you expect to wait for payments to start. You usually have to repay the full amount of the advance within three months, but this could be extended to six months in exceptional circumstances. Key advice. You may be short of money while you wait for universal credit payments to start. A short-term advance of universal credit could help. Find out who qualifies and how to apply.
You are encouraged to apply for your nonimmigrant student visa as soon as you have your I-20. To ensure you get an early and timely date you may apply at any time. However, a student visa may be issued no more than 120 days prior to the start date mentioned on your I-20. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You don't say how long ago you applied for the loan. I think the fact that the bank has already denied you a loan will affect your chances of obtaining a smaller loan. It really is best to wait at least six months to a year before you apply again. Use this time to build your credit. I applied for an auto loan for about $10,000, I was denied. But I think I might have a better chance of getting a personal loan at a lower amount, but I'm wondering how long I should wait before I try to apply again. Btw, it's at the same bank.
By Investopedia AAA |. A: Applications for Social Security benefits can only be processed a maximum of four months before benefits are scheduled to begin. Thus, the earliest you can apply is age 61 and 9 months, and you can expect to receive your first payment four months later, the month after your birthday. However, benefit payments come after each full month of eligibility.
What is Advance Pay and how do I request it? If you are a first time student using GI bill benefits or have used the GI Bill before and been out of school for a semester you can request Advance Pay. We accept requests for Advance Pay 60 to 90 days prior to the beginning of the semester. 