Yes, there are mini systems that will be better than Bose, but at the moment, why spend the money on a new system when your Bose system can be fixed under warranty and you like it? Just simple economics. Spend the money and upgrade when you're out of school and you have the space. 
Here’s a video showing a system you can get for the price (which is $3,300 at the time this video was made) of the Bose Lifestyle 535 consisting of small speakers, that I think if you were to hear you’d agree sounds better than the LS535. And here’s a video showing a system that sounds better than both of Bose’s Lifestyle systems, but costs less. I also demonstrate how Bose’s cube/bass module combination works is a bad design in this video:
The ZonePlayer is also a little more complicated than the Bose. There’s software to install, and if the room you want music in doesn’t happen to be the one where your wireless router lives, you’ll also need a $99 device called a ZoneBridge that connects to the router and spreads the signal throughout your home. The basic SoundLink system consists of the speaker and a small transmitter -- Bose calls it a key -- that plugs into a USB port of the computer where you store your music or access Internet radio. There’s no software to install: All you do is change a setting on your computer.
Report Abuse. Bose is the famous name that makes mediocre stuff that is just better than walmart junk. So don't get into the name game. Go to a real Audio store, check out what sounds good to you. Best Answer: Onkyo has been coming out with lots of box systems (new ones almost every week.) These look decent, include BluRay players and have lots of spare connections for HD cable, TV, Game systems, etc. Bose-is not BluRay compatible.
Never did like Bose, they are overprice. To have a good system buy a Pioneer Elite receiver (Best Buy VSX-01) or an Onkyo (Fry's TX-SR606) with separate speakers fron JBL (CS6100) or Klipsch (Synergy Quintet III & 10 sub-10). What is your budget for the full system. Listen to Klipsch at Best Buy and JBL at Fry's. Best Answer: Onkyo has been coming out with lots of box systems (new ones almost every week.) These look decent, include BluRay players and have lots of spare connections for HD cable, TV, Game systems, etc. Bose-is not BluRay compatible.
Personally, I can't stand the sound of Bose. The lows are muddy and boomy, the midrange is non-existent, and the highs are hissy. With the quality of most mid priced receivers on the market today, the difference in sound is the speakers. You can drive top quality speakers with a mediocre amp and get good sound. Best Answer: Onkyo has been coming out with lots of box systems (new ones almost every week.) These look decent, include BluRay players and have lots of spare connections for HD cable, TV, Game systems, etc. Bose-is not BluRay compatible.
Please try again later. --------UPDATE-------------------------- ­­--------------------------------------- ­-­-------------------------------------- ­--­------. Bose has come out with the Lifestyle 535 Series III, which is $3,300 ($200 more than the system discussed in this video). And here’s a video showing a system that sounds better than both of Bose’s Lifestyle systems, but costs less. I also demonstrate how Bose’s cube/bass module combination works is a bad design in this video:
In fact, I think the Millenia CT sounds better than Bose's Lifestyle V35 (Bose's $3,300 surround sound system) and its Jewel Cubes ran in stereo (2 speaker) mode. But anyway, this video shows the Paradigm Shift Millenia CT system, which is almost identical to the Bose Cinemate system, and I think if you were to hear the two, you'd agree the Millenia CT system sounds better than the Bose CineMate GS II.
As mentioned in the other posts, Bose and B&O are both consumer brands. What is better is a matter of personal preference. Like wine (a good one is a wine that. ), a great pair of speakers is a set of speakers that sound good to you. 