Developmental psychology is the scientific study of how and why human beings change over the course of their life. Developmental psychology employs many of the research methods used in other areas of psychology. However, infants and children cannot be tested in the same ways as adults, so different methods are often used to study their development.
Key Figures & Theories. Child Psychology, often referred to as Child Development, examines the psychological aspects that occur during childhood (from birth to puberty). An incredible number of changes occur during childhood, especially during infancy, which lasts from birth to age two. The stages of Erikson's psychosocial development are as follows... 1  Trust vs. Mistrust (this is the stage and the conflict) occurs from birth to 1 year. 2  To resolve this conflict, the child must develop a sense of security. 3  Autonomy vs. Shame and Doubt occurs from age 1 - 2.
Child development is the period of physical, cognitive and social growth that begins at birth and continues through early adulthood. This lesson discusses the theories, stages and major milestones of child development and ends with a quiz to test what you have learned. Lesson Summary. Child development is a process of maturation that includes infancy, early childhood, middle childhood and adolescence. There are many theories in the field of child development, including those of Freud, Erikson and Vygotsky. Infancy begins at birth and lasts until age two.
Developmental psychology examines the influences of nature and nurture on the process of human development, and processes of change in context and across time. Developmental psychology employs many of the research methods used in other areas of psychology. However, infants and children cannot be tested in the same ways as adults, so different methods are often used to study their development.
Clinical child psychology is a specialty in professional psychology that develops and applies scientific knowledge to the delivery of psychological services to infants, toddlers, children and adolescents within their social context. The specialty of clinical child psychology involves the study, assessment and treatment of a wide range of interrelated biological, psychological and social problems experienced by children and adolescents.
Developmental psychology involves a range of fields, such as, educational psychology, child psychopathology, forensic developmental psychology, child development, cognitive psychology, ecological psychology, and cultural psychology. Developmental psychology employs many of the research methods used in other areas of psychology. However, infants and children cannot be tested in the same ways as adults, so different methods are often used to study their development.
Medical Definition of CHILD PSYCHOLOGY. : the study of the psychological characteristics of infants and children and the application of general psychological principles to infancy and childhood. What made you want to look up child psychology?
Developmental Psychologists study the physical, mental, and social changes that occur during the lifecycle. Thus, child psychologists focus on these changes that occur from birth to adolescence. Click here for a more in-depth definition of Developmental Psychology. The stages of Erikson's psychosocial development are as follows... 1  Trust vs. Mistrust (this is the stage and the conflict) occurs from birth to 1 year. 2  To resolve this conflict, the child must develop a sense of security. 3  Autonomy vs. Shame and Doubt occurs from age 1 - 2.
Child development refers to the biological, psychological and emotional changes that occur in human beings between birth and the end of adolescence, as the individual progresses from dependency to increasing autonomy. It is a continuous process with a predictable sequence yet having a unique course for every child. Some age-related development periods and examples of defined intervals are: newborn (ages 0–4 weeks); infant (ages 4 weeks – 1 year); toddler (ages 1–3 years); preschooler (ages 4–6 years); school-aged child (ages 6–13 years); adolescent (ages 13–19).
Child Psychology, often referred to as Child Development, examines the psychological aspects that occur during childhood (from birth to puberty). The stages of Erikson's psychosocial development are as follows... 1  Trust vs. Mistrust (this is the stage and the conflict) occurs from birth to 1 year. 2  To resolve this conflict, the child must develop a sense of security. 3  Autonomy vs. Shame and Doubt occurs from age 1 - 2.