Italy is located on the south of Europe and it borders with the following states-Switzerland, France, Austria and Slovenia. Italy can be easily recognized on the world map as a country having a big boot shape. You can see on the map below where Tuscany is in Italy. Location of Tuscany in Italy. Tuscany is just one of the most beautiful and interesting regions of Italy, and it is located on the Italian north-western coast. Tuscany has a shape of somewhat triangle and includes 10 provinces. All of Tuscany provinces have their own charm and open a door to a little new world to discover. Tuscany Provinces.
The Colosseum is in Rome, Italy. It is located in the central-western part of the Italian Peninsula with a latitude of 42 degrees (North) and longitude of 13 degrees (East). The Leonardo da Vinci Airport is quite a ways from the Colosseum at nearly 22 km away. 
Rome is a city of 2,730,000 people located in the southern European country of Italy. Rome is the capital of Italy and is situated in the center of the country not too far from the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. Rome covers 1285 km² of land and has a population density of 2130 people per square kilometer. 
Italy is the boot-shaped country in Western Europe which is bordered by France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia. Italy is located on the north central Mediterranean Sea, mostly between the Ligurian, Tyrrhenian, and Adriatic Seas. --- Italy is located in Southern Europe on the Italian Peninsula. It includes the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea, Sicily and Sardinia.
Italy is a country located on the Italian Peninsula on in Southern Europe. Italy shares its northern, Alpine boundary with France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia. To the ea … st and the west, it is bordered by the Adriatic Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea respectively. --- Italy is located in Southern Europe on the Italian Peninsula. It includes the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea, Sicily and Sardinia.
Italy is a peninsula surrounded by Adriatic Sea in the east, Ionian Sea in the southeast, Tyrrhenian Sea in the southwest and its southern boundary extending into the Mediterranean Sea. It shares its northern land boundary with France, Slovenia, Switzerland and Austria. Italy possess many islands including Sicily and Sardinia within its territory. Italy is located at a meeting point of African and Eurasian plate, in fact, island of Sicily is located northeast of Tunisia in Africa. Italy covers a total area of 301,340 sq. km. and is the seventy second largest country of the world. Italy is situated between 42° 50' N latitudes and 12° 50' E longitudes. Italy’s capital city Rome has been the home of Roman Empire and Christianity in the past. The smallest country of the world The Vatican City is located within the boundaries of Rome.
Florence is located on the north-east of Tuscany. See on the Florence map below the exact location of Florence, Italy or head to Florence map link to view more maps. For more information about Tuscany location you may also like to visit our maps page. Tuscany is just one of the most beautiful and interesting regions of Italy, and it is located on the Italian north-western coast. Tuscany has a shape of somewhat triangle and includes 10 provinces. All of Tuscany provinces have their own charm and open a door to a little new world to discover. Tuscany Provinces.
Rome is the capital of Italy and of the Lazio region. With 2.9 million residents in 1,285 km 2 (496.1 sq mi), it is also the country's largest and most populated comune and fourth-most populous city in the European Union by population within city limits. In 1871 Rome became the capital of the Kingdom of Italy, and in 1946 that of the Italian Republic. Rome has the status of a global city. Rome ranked in 2014 as the 14th-most-visited city in the world, 3rd most visited in the European Union, and the most popular tourist attraction in Italy.
Italy is a country with a large population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Italy include San Marino, Croatia, Monaco and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its biggest cities and towns include Rome, Milan, Naples and Turin. 