Say it. Just once, maybe twice. It is hard to say the words without a smile immediately parting from your lips. Go ahead...try it.
Fans of the show “Survivor” might recall the word bula from the “Survivor: Fiji” season. When the members of the tribes Moto and Ravu were merged into one group in episode nine, the new tribe took the name Bula, Bula, adding, perhaps, the concept of “unity” as another hue of meaning to the word bula. TAG Chairman Damend Gounder said in 2007 that the organization had conducted several trainings throughout Nadi, Suva, the Coral Coast, as well as the Yasawas and Mamanucas islands to help spread the spirit of bula.
The term Bula matari (roughly translated as Breaker of Bones, or Breaker of Rocks) appears on Henry Morgan Stanley's headstone as a reference to his African expedition … leadership style. Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses). 34 people found this useful.
[ 2 syll. bu-la, bul-a ] The baby girl name Bula is pronounced as BY UW LAH †. Bula is used predominantly in the English language and its origin is Hebrew. Bula is a variant spelling of the name Beulah (English). Bula is unusual as a baby name for girls. Its usage peaked modestly in 1909 with 0.005% of baby girls being given the name Bula. It ranked at #966 then
Bula Spirit. The “Bula Spirit” intention is to promote a high level of customer service in Fiji. TAG and the Government of Fiji see this as an important initiative to help promote tourism during a time when the nation’s reputation risks being tarnished by the effects of a recent military coup and an economic crisis. TAG Chairman Damend Gounder said in 2007 that the organization had conducted several trainings throughout Nadi, Suva, the Coral Coast, as well as the Yasawas and Mamanucas islands to help spread the spirit of bula.
Bula Fiji. Bula, like the Italian prego or the Hawaiian aloha, is a word in the Fijian language that is now imbued with a variety of meanings, each of which depend on the given the situation. TAG Chairman Damend Gounder said in 2007 that the organization had conducted several trainings throughout Nadi, Suva, the Coral Coast, as well as the Yasawas and Mamanucas islands to help spread the spirit of bula.
– Fiji Bitter is very very good. – Bula is the only word you’ll ever need (along with Fiji Bitter). Bula is the national greeting that seems to mean: hello, how are you, it’s a sunny day, take your time, have a good day, hope you and your extended family are well, play nicely. But sometimes it also can mean: goodbye, buy me a drink, I’m bored, I’m hungry or I’ve run out of conversation. It’s a nice all-purpose, well-meaning word that you can just roll out on any occasion. But there is another side to Bula, the side that occasionally crosses over to the dark side. There are a few more variations. Bula Bula – a double Bula – well when you’re on a good thing, why not stick to it? There’s Vinaka Vinaka, which means you can be my Facebook friend and then my favourite, Bula Vinaka Bula, which means – well by that stage who really cares? It’s probably time for lunch and a nanny nap.
The term Bula matari (roughly translated as Breaker of Bones, or Breaker of Rocks) appears on Henry Morgan Stanley's headstone as a reference to his African expedition … leadership style.   It can be intrepreted that he was a brutal or harsh man. 