These millipedes can grow to as long as 15 inches, can be nearly 4 inches thick and have 253 legs. (For people who love them, these characteristics are described as cute.) These millipedes can live as long as 10 years, and despite their goosebump-inducing appearance, they are harmless. Related topics: MNN lists. 
They are most active at night and usually hide during the day in cracks and other moist locations. Millipedes are harmless; they do not feed upon building structures or furnishings and they can not bite or sting. Millipedes can not reproduce indoors. All millipedes found inside wandered in by mistake. Controls for millipedes are aimed at keeping millipedes outdoors or reducing their numbers at the source. They feed on damp and decaying vegetable matter and are beneficial as recyclers of organic matter. However, they become a pest when they migrate into buildings as accidental invaders. Millipedes are usually found in the garage, basement or lowest level although they may wander into other parts of the house.
Millipedes are often ignored as small, harmless, insignificant critters. It's a mistake to ignore them, however. There are some fascinating millipedes out there. Besides some of the more colorful animals, there is an entire genus in California that is bioluminescent. Not all millipedes are harmless, either. A few species can produce noxious secretions.
Millipedes are harmless; they do not feed upon building structures or furnishings and they cannot bite or sting. They feed on damp and decaying vegetable matter and are beneficial as recyclers of organic matter. However, they become a pest when they migrate into buildings. Millipedes are usually found in the garage, basement or lowest level although they may wander into other parts of the house.
Also most millipedes are nocturnal. They are generally speaking harmless but most species have a series of metathoracic glands which produce a repellent substance which they can exude when they feel threatened. In some larger species this fluid can be corrosive and cause blistering of the skin in large doses. Millipedes are generally considered to be harmless but they can be pests in some circumstances. In Europe sugar beet is the main crop to suffer from millipedes. In Africa Spirostreptids can be damaging to cotton and groundnuts.
email this page to a friend. Centipedes and millipedes are not insects because they have more than six legs, but they are closely related invertebrates. When outdoors, these invertebrates are innocuous organisms, but they may be considered pests when they share living space with us. Millipedes are usually restricted to moist places where they feed on organic matter. In the fall, they may become a nuisance because they migrate away from feeding areas and invade homes. Because they crawl along the ground, they are usually found in lower floors and basements.
Millipedes. Millipedes live outdoors in damp areas such as under leaves, needles and dead plant debris, or in cracks and crevices. They feed on damp and decaying vegetable matter and are beneficial as recyclers of organic matter. However, they become a pest when they migrate into buildings. Millipedes are usually found in the garage, basement or lowest level although they may wander into other parts of the house.
They provide the mites with a home and food, and the mites keep the millipede’s exoskeleton clean by eating debris off of it. These mites are harmless to people. • There are over 1000 species of millipedes worldwide. • One way to distinguish a millipede from a centipede is by the number of legs and segments. Centipedes have 1 pair of legs per segment and legs emerge from the sides of each segment. 
Millipedes are generally considered to be harmless, boring invertebrates. Actually, a number of species are capable of producing noxious secretions (usually containing benzoquinones) which can create superficial burns on human skin and can cause damage to the eyes. There are some fascinating millipedes out there. Besides some of the more colorful animals, there is an entire genus in California that is bioluminescent. Not all millipedes are harmless, either. A few species can produce noxious secretions.
Some eat fungi or suck plant fluids, and a small minority are predatory. Millipedes are generally harmless to humans, although some can become household or garden pests, especially in greenhouses where they can cause severe damage to emergent seedlings. 