Moringa Oleifera, commonly known as Moringa is the most nutritious tree found on the earth. Moringa is considered as the power house of Nutrients because the Moringa leaves contain more than 90 nutrients and 46 antioxidants. Moringa tree grows in tropical conditions and this tree is native to Indian and Africa. Moringa tree thrives in dry conditions with very little amount of water.
Malunggay is the Filipino name for Moringa oleifera the English names of which include drumstick tree and horseradish tree. The drought-resistant tree grows in tropical and semiarid areas. It is cultivated for food in South Asia, Southeast Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America, Fiji, Guam and Palau.
Moringa Oleifera, dubbed The Miracle Tree, is world-renowned for its nutritional content, weight loss support and array of incredible health benefits. Numerous clinical studies have demonstrated its effectiveness in improving metabolism, promoting energy, supporting the immune system and enhancing alertness.
Moringa oleifera tree has been considered as one of the most nutritious plants ever discovered with most of its benefits concentrated in its small green leaves. As is evident from its name, moringa powder is made from the freshly harvested leaves of the moringa oleifera tree.
Moringa Oleifera is commonly know all over the world by a variety of names: Moringa, Malunggay, Shevaga, The Drumstick Tree, The Horseradish Tree and a few classics such as “Mothers Best Friend,” “The Tree of Life” and “Natures Medicine Cabinet.” Moringa happens to be the only genus in the family Moringaceae.
Moringa Leaves are the most nutritious part of the Moringa tree and are widely used in salads, curries and chutneys in India. Nowadays Moringa is getting popular world wide as a nutrition supplements because of its very high contents of vitamins and minerals.
Moringa is a plant that is native to the sub-Himalayan areas of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. It is also grown in the tropics. The leaves, bark, flowers, fruit, seeds, and root are used to make medicine.