Mars was the Roman war god; his shield and spear form the planets symbol. He was also a god of agriculture before becoming associated with Ares. Whereas Ares often received a bad name because war implied explicit violence, Mars represented securing peace of a nation through war. Like a badge of blood in the sky, the Red Planet has long stood for the gods of war. Mars' symbol is seen below. It seems natural that the Greeks named the fourth planet after Ares, since it shines with a red color, resembling blood, which is appropriate for the god of War.
The symbol of Mars is represented by a circle with an arrow  emerging from it, pointing ut and to the right. It is inspired from  the god Mars or Ares in ancient mythology. 1 person found this useful. Edit. The symbol for Mars is a circle with an arrow pointing out of it  upwards. This symbol represents the spear and shield of the Roman  god Mars
Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun and the second smallest planet in the Solar System. Named after the Roman god of war, it is often described as the Red Planet, as the iron oxide prevalent on its surface gives it a reddish appearance. Mars is named after the Roman god of war. In different cultures, Mars represents masculinity and youth. Its symbol, a circle with an arrow pointing out to the upper right, represents a shield and spear. It is also used as a symbol for the male gender. 
The symbols are: 1: two threes and one zero (30) 2: a clock (SECONDS: because the lines are in opposed direction of the seconds in the clock) 3: TO (for the two white lines … between the other black lines) 4: MARS (because the symbol are the planet mars, with his two moons, Fobos and Deimos. If so, it stands for 30 seconds to mars. The first symbol, represents two … intertwined 3's, meaning 30. The next symbol, showing a circle with the bent lines sticking out, resembles a clock, the two lines representing the minute hand and the hour hand, meaning seconds.
Mars is associated with the Greek God Ares and known as the God of War. In astrology, Mars influences all things masculine, and filtered through its particular sign reveals how anything is pursued, from a potential sexual partner to a career. 
Arms of Karlskoga in Sweden. The Mars symbol (♂) is a depiction of a circle with an arrow emerging from it, pointing at an angle to the upper right. In old manuscripts, it is usually interpreted as the shield and spear from the war god Mars / Ares. 
The symbol of Mars is represented by a circle with an arrow emerging from it, pointing ut and to the right. If so, it stands for 30 seconds to mars. The first symbol, represents two … intertwined 3's, meaning 30. The next symbol, showing a circle with the bent lines sticking out, resembles a clock, the two lines representing the minute hand and the hour hand, meaning seconds.
Credit: NASA/ESA/A. Simon (Goddard Space Flight Center). Uranus: The sign for Uranus is a combination of two other signs – Mars’ sign and the symbol of the Sun – because the planet is connected to these two in mythology. Uranus represented heaven in Roman mythology, and this ancient civilization believed that the Sun’s light and Mars’ power ruled the heavens. 
Every planet has a symbol that represents it. Some have been in use for thousands of years. The symbol for Mars represents the shield and spear of Mars, the Roman god of war. It is also the male/masculine symbol and the symbol for iron. The same symbol is used for the planet in the pseudo-science of astrology. Now that you know the symbol for Mars, you might be interested in some facts about the planet itself. If you came here looking for astrological references, please search ”junk science” in Google and you will find what you need. The symbol for Mars is probably the least significant fact about the planet, but it is still a crucial piece of information to have. Hopefully, this article inspires you to find out more about the Red Planet.