The temporal lobe is one of the four sections, or lobes, that make up the cerebral cortex of the brain. Located on the lower regions of both the left and right sides of the cortex, the temporal lobe is essential in processing sensory stimuli received from both the eyes and ears. It assists in coordinating speech and spatial navigation and contains the brain structures responsible for long-term memory. The temporal lobe contains a section of the brain known as the primary auditory cortex. This region of the cortex is responsible for receiving and interpreting the information transmitted to it by auditory receptors.
As with most regions of the brain, the temporal lobe is also divided into right brain-left brain functions. The right temporal lobe controls the left side of the body, and the left temporal lobe controls the right side of the body, according to Merck. Damage. According to Merck, damage to either side of the temporal lobe can lead to specific symptoms. If the right temporal lobe is damaged in some way, your perceptions of sounds and shapes are impaired. If the left temporal lobe is damaged, your perceptions of language and memory of words are impaired
This allows us to interpret sound. The temporal lobe stores most of our memories and is involved in aspects of language, including our ability to use language and understand what we hear. Like the frontal lobes, the temporal lobe is involved in regulating certain aspects of personality. Deep inside the temporal lobe are the structures of the hypothalamus and limbic system. The hypothalamus is involved in instinctual behaviours such as aggression, sexual arousal, appetite, thirst and temperature control. The limbic system is in control of emotional reactions. 
The temporal lobe is one of the four major lobes of the cerebral cortex in the brain of mammals. The temporal lobe is involved in primary auditory perception, such as hearing, and holds the primary auditory cortex. The primary auditory cortex receives sensory information from the ears and secondary areas process the information into meaningful units such as speech and words.
The temporal lobe is located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain. The temporal lobe is involved in processing sensory input into derived meanings for the appropriate retention of visual memories, language comprehension, and emotion association. The temporal lobe is involved in primary auditory perception, such as hearing, and holds the primary auditory cortex. The primary auditory cortex receives sensory information from the ears and secondary areas process the information into meaningful units such as speech and words.
The temporal lobe controls how you hear, like the clucking of a chicken or the stomping of a deer. The parietal lobe processes what you touch whatever you can squeeze or grab or clutch. The frontal lobe helps you think and memorize so you can process what you need right before your eyes. 
The left temporal lobe holds the primary auditory cortex, which is important for the processing of semantics in both speech and vision in humans. Wernicke's area, which spans the region between temporal and parietal lobes, plays a key role (in tandem with Broca's area in the frontal lobe) in speech comprehension. The temporal lobe is involved in primary auditory perception, such as hearing, and holds the primary auditory cortex. The primary auditory cortex receives sensory information from the ears and secondary areas process the information into meaningful units such as speech and words.
Speech. The temporal lobe located on the left side of the cerebral cortex is essential for speech. This left temporal lobe contains Wernicke's area, a portion of the brain that is largely responsible for controlling the mental processing needed for speech, including comprehension and verbal memory. The temporal lobe contains a section of the brain known as the primary auditory cortex. This region of the cortex is responsible for receiving and interpreting the information transmitted to it by auditory receptors.
The temporal lobes, located below and to the side of each frontal lobe on the right and left sides of the brain, contain essential areas for memory but also play a major role in language and emotions. They help people understand words, speak, read, write, and connect words with their meanings. Frontotemporal disorders affect the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain. They can begin in the frontal lobe, the temporal lobe, or both. Initially, frontotemporal disorders leave other brain regions untouched, including those that control short-term memory.