Typically speaking, sofrito is an aromatic seasoning sauce of herbs and spices used throughout the Caribbean, Latin America, and Spain used to flavor thousands of dishes from beans to meat. Ingredients include sweet bell peppers, onions, garlic, annatto, oregano, vinegar, tomato paste or sauce, and cilantro. The vinegar gives it a tang and the annatto is for flavor and color. More ». Cuban Sofrito.
Simply put, sofrito is a fragrant blend of herbs and spices used throughout the Caribbean, especially Puerto Rico, Cuba and the Dominican Republic. (Andrews, 2006). Today's Spanish sofrito contains tomatoes, peppers, onions, garlic, paprika, and olive oil. Caribbean Variations: Technically speaking, sofrito isn’t even a recipe or dish; it’s a method of cooking.
Goya Recaito, a unique cilantro-based seasoning. Goya saut s cilantro, green pepper, onion and garlic in olive oil to create this rich, thick base that enhances the flavor of your beans, rice, soups and stews. Sofrito. This aromatic cooking base combines the bold flavors of tomato, onion, green peppers, cilantro and garlic, saving you valuable prep time in the kitchen. A heaping spoonful of Sofrito added to soups and stews is a classic first-step ingredient to authentic Latino cooking.
You can use your homemade Puerto Rican sofrito as a seasoning for stews, beans, and yellow rice, along with other ingredients. Puerto Rican sofrito is traditionally also made with recao (also called culantro) and aji ají, peppers but both are pretty hard to find unless you go to Special latin. markets 
What is a Sofrito? An essential seasoning in Cuban, Dominican Republican, Mexican, Puerto Rican and Spanish cuisines, sofrito is an aromatic blend of herbs and spices used to flavor beans, fish, meats, rice and stews. It is typically the base from which the rest of the recipe is built. Cuban sofrito is mild and made with onion, garlic, aji dulce and ham. It is not uncommon to also add these to ingredients to various sofritos (depending on the dish) – bay leaf, cilantro, cumin, tomato sauce and to bean dishes chorizo or salted pork.
Sazon Seasoning. Sazon is a type of seasoned salt found in Spanish and Mexican markets. The seasoning is used on meats, fish, poultry and even to flavor soups and stews. One popular brand is by Goya Foods. Typical ingredients include, cilantro, achiote, garlic, salt. On food network today Sunny Anderson used a Sazon seasoning in a stuffed pepper recipe. can't find out what that is or where I could find it. it seems to be a Mexican seasoning maybe as the recipe is spicy.
Sazon means seasoning in Spanish; salt, ground black pepper, granulated garlic or garlic powder, dried ground coriander seed (I doubt whether you can find dried culantro, unless you get some and dry it yourself,) cumin, oregano and annatto seeds, ground. The achiote (annatto) is what makes the sazon reddish. In your post below, the last link claims that sazon is a shortcut to making the classic sofrito, which is not true. The recipe given at that link is sofrito, not sazon, as far as a Puerto Rican would be concerned. Sazon is a dry seasoning mix, sofrito, a wet mix of vegetables and herbs for use as a seasoning base.
In Spanish cuisine, sofrito consists of garlic, onion, paprika, peppers, and tomatoes cooked in olive oil. This is known as refogado or sometimes as estrugido in Portuguese-speaking nations, where only onions and olive oil are often essential, garlic and bay laurel leaves being the other most common ingredients. Chorizo (sausage), tocino (salt pork) and ham are added for specific recipes, such as beans. In Dominican cuisine, sofrito is also called sazon, sazón and is a liquid mixture containing, vinegar water and sometimes tomato. Juice a sofrito or sazon sazón is used, for, rice, stews beans and. other dishes
Recaito. Goya Recaito, a unique cilantro-based seasoning. Goya saut s cilantro, green pepper, onion and garlic in olive oil to create this rich, thick base that enhances the flavor of your beans, rice, soups and stews. Click for Recipe. Sofrito. This aromatic cooking base combines the bold flavors of tomato, onion, green peppers, cilantro and garlic, saving you valuable prep time in the kitchen. A heaping spoonful of Sofrito added to soups and stews is a classic first-step ingredient to authentic Latino cooking.