OTA Collagen Biomaterial is intended for use in dental surgical procedures as a resorbable material for placement in the area of dental implants, bone defects or ridge reconstruction. OTA Collagen Biomaterial is an off-white, biocompatible, resorbable membrane matrix engineered from highly purified type I collagen derived from bovine Achilles tendon. When moistened with saline or blood, the porous material is flexible and conforms to the contours of the defect site.
i just had a tooth extraction and a Resorbable Collagen Plug was put in place of the missing tooth. 
Home » Prevent dry socket. Prevention of Dry Socket Picture: Dr James Heilman, Wikipedia Creative Commons license. A very unfortunate result of a tooth extraction is a dry socket (alveolar osteitis). This occurs in 2-5% of all extractions and results in great pain for the patient. Dry socket is more prevalent with extractions of molars or premolars. After the extraction blod normally clots in the socket and forms a protective barrier for bone and nerve ends. In some cases this can be washed away and leave the vital areas exposed for food, liquids and other foreign matter in the oral cavity.
Collagen plugs. Collagen is a component of connective tissue. The dentist places a sponge like material made of specially processed bovine collagen into the socket and sutures it in place. A collagen plug is a good deal less expensive than a bone graft, and the procedure for placing it is easier.
3. Collagen Plugs. Collagen is a component of connective tissue. The collagen used in dental procedures is derived from bovine Achilles tendon. Collagen is a connective tissue protein which forms fibers. It is the elastic material underlying your skin that makes it tough and rubbery. A collagen plug is a good deal less expensive than a bone graft, and the procedure for placing it is easier. This procedure may preserve between 50% and 70% of the original bone height. Unfortunately, it is a much less predictable method of socket preservation than bone grafting.
After an extraction, the dentist places a collagen plug into the socket and sutures it in place. The sutures are removed in a week. A collagen plug is a good deal less expensive than a bone graft, and the procedure for placing it is easier. This procedure may preserve between 50% and 70% of the original bone height. Unfortunately, it is a much less predictable method of socket preservation than bone grafting.
The overhead cost of grafting materials and related products is high (see cost estimates below). The average cost for enough grafting material for one socket (about ½ cc) is around $100. Some grafting materials require a membrane to avoid soft tissue ingrowth into the socket for another $100. However, this cost can be reduced by using some satisfactory grafting materials (examples below), and by using a low-cost collagen plug for about $10, thus avoiding the membrane. Sutures are another few dollars. The cost of the extraction and graft is somewhat formidable to many patients. When the cost of grafting ($493) is added to the average fee of $147 for a routine extraction, many patients are not convinced of the value of the procedure for $640. 
Description. The Collaplug collagen wound dressings is a soft, white, pliable, nonfriable sponge used in dental surgery. Because of the coherent sponge structure, application of the dressings to the wound is easily controlled. 
Resolved Question: I had a bovine graft and collagen plug put in an upper molar after an extraction. The bovine and plug fell out several days later, so the dentist put more bovine and once again stitched another plug in yesterday. It seems extremely important that the bovine stay in place since the dentist perforated my sinus cavity while trying to remove the tooth (before putting in the collagen & bovine). I need some sort of protective layer to protect my sinus.
• Extractions creating large defects. Using a RCP Resorbable Collagen Plug from Humanus Dental, in the extraction socket direcly at the extraction time can radically minimize the risk for a dry socket since this forms a protective lid during the so important healing period. Dry socket is more prevalent with extractions of molars or premolars. After the extraction blod normally clots in the socket and forms a protective barrier for bone and nerve ends. In some cases this can be washed away and leave the vital areas exposed for food, liquids and other foreign matter in the oral cavity.