2 Working with the eggs one at a time, crack the egg into a small bowl or cup. Place the bowl close to the surface of the hot water and gently slip the egg into the water. If you want, use a spoon to push some of the egg whites closer to their yolks, to help them hold together. One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl. The very thin egg whites will drain out through the sieve
Method 3 of 5: Using a silicon egg poacher cup. 1. If you have access to a good kitchen store, consider purchasing a small silicon egg poacher cup or a set of silicon egg poachers (a set often comes with a pan with a clear lid). This is a fairly inexpensive option and they're very easy to use. Remove the poached egg with a slotted spoon. Work quickly to transfer each egg onto the plate, letting excess water drip back into the pan. Larousse Gastronomique advises to refresh the egg in cold water and then drain on a cloth.
1 Remove the egg: Use a slotted spoon to remove the egg from the water. 2  Pat the egg dry: This is optional as well, but I like to pat the egg dry lightly with a paper towel. 3  Season and eat! 4  Place the poached egg on a salad, piece of toast, or a plate and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let me show you how I poach an egg; there's really nothing to it. Pin it. The big difference between an easy poached egg and a slightly more difficult one is your tolerance for imperfection. I admit it's tough to get the perfectly round, satiny smooth poached eggs you see adorning restaurant dishes.
1. Select a suitable pan for poaching. The pan must be shallow and wide, as the trick to poaching well, without an egg poacher is to gently slip the egg into a wide, shallow pan filled with simmering water. The pan should be able to take about 1.5 liters (2 3/4 pints) of water, or 10cm (4) depth of water. Remove the poached egg with a slotted spoon. Work quickly to transfer each egg onto the plate, letting excess water drip back into the pan. Larousse Gastronomique advises to refresh the egg in cold water and then drain on a cloth.
The poacher is actually coddling the eggs, not truly poaching them, but if what you want is an egg with a cooked white and runny yolk, this is an easy way to do it. To use an egg poaching pan, remove the cups from the pan that you intend to use. Fill the pan with only 1/2-inch of water and bring it to a low boil. One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl. The very thin egg whites will drain out through the sieve
It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Step 1: Bring the water to simmering Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan. This greasing step is optional but helps keep the whites from sticking to the sides of the pan. You can also poach eggs in other hot liquids, such as broth, milk, wine, or tomato juice. Break one cold egg into a small dish. Carefully slide the egg into the simmering water, holding the lip of the dish as close to the water as possible. Take care not to break the yolk.
Preparation. 1  To poach a pasteurized egg, first fill a deep saucepan or large saute sauté pan about-half full of water and set over high. 2  Heat add some, salt for, flavor and white vinegar or lemon – juice this helps to keep the white of the egg from. 3  Spreading, next crack a pasteurized egg into a small custard.  cup 1 Use a spoon to gently gather the white around the yolk, then cook for 3 minutes. 2  To test for doneness, lift the egg from the water using a slotted spoon and gently jiggle the spoon to make sure the white is solid. 3  Carefully return the egg to the poaching water if you prefer a less runny yolk.
Poaching an egg in boiling water is never as simple as it seems. Timing the poaching of the egg in a large amount of water is often difficult, as is pooling the egg white. Everyday cooks may want to look into buying an egg poacher. Egg poachers come in a variety of styles, including stove top pans, electric poachers and microwave poachers. 
4 Gently lift the poached eggs out of the pan with a slotted spoon and place on a plate to serve. To help the eggs keep from spreading too much some people have good results by placing a mason jar ring in the pan. Put a mason jar ring in the bottom of the pan and fill the pan with water to just above the mason jar ring. One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl. The very thin egg whites will drain out through the sieve