Brick rated “effloresced may not exhibit efflorescence in service; brick rated not effloresced may exhibit efflorescence in service. Migration of salts from other sources may also cause brick to effloresce. Construction practices that reduce the potential for contamination of brick are discussed later. Such salts found in backing materials may contribute to efflorescence on the face of the brickwork if sufficient water is present to dissolve the salts and there is direct con-tact between the brick and backing or a pathway for the solution to reach the masonry surface.
Efflorescence is a crystaline deposit on surfaces of masonry, stucco or concrete. It is whitish in appear­ance, and is sometimes referred to as whiskers. Efflorescence has been a problem for many years, and is a topic of much controversy. The problem of efflorescence, or the deposit of water-soluble salts on the surfaces of masonry, stucco or concrete, is an old one, and one that has been studied and reported on as early as 1877.
Efflorescence is a crystalline deposit of water-soluble salts (usually white) on the surface of masonry. All masonry materials are susceptible to efflorescence. In a chemical analysis, water-soluble salts consisting of only a few tenths of one percent is sufficient to cause efflorescence on a masonry surface. The amount and character of salts of the deposits can vary widely, depending the nature of the soluble materials and the atmospheric conditions.
The alkali sulfates in the wall are dissolved by water into a solution which then moves through the natural pores in the masonry. The solution migrates to the surface of the wall where the water evaporates, depositing the salts on the wall and generating the white powdery scum we know as efflorescence. Figure 1. We know that efflorescence is a fine, white, powdery deposit of water-soluble salts left on the surface of masonry as the water evaporates. These efflorescent salt deposits tend to appear at the worst times, usually about a month after the building is constructed, and sometimes as long as a year after completion.
Causes of Efflorescence on Concrete, Cement, Brick, Masonry. Water passes through the pores of all concrete, stucco, brick, and masonry products which is the inevitable cause of these unruly white patches, more technically known as efflorescence. Preventing Efflorescence on Concrete, Cement, Brick, Masonry. 1  It is impossible to remove salts or eliminate water penetration. 2  Only thing to do is limit these things. 3  Prevent efflorescence on concrete is to remove the moisture that causes it.
Efflorescence: Cause and Control 1 ef-jlo-res-cence (ef' le res 'ens), 1. a change on the surface to a powdery substance upon exposure to air, as a crystalline substance through loss of water. 2. to become incrusted or covered with crystals of salt or the like through evaporation or chemical change. We know that efflorescence is a fine, white, powdery deposit of water-soluble salts left on the surface of masonry as the water evaporates. These efflorescent salt deposits tend to appear at the worst times, usually about a month after the building is constructed, and sometimes as long as a year after completion.
Efflorescence is a powdery deposit of salts which forms on the surface of bricks and mortar. It is usually white but efflorescence may be yellow, green or brown. Water allowed to enter uncovered cavity walls during construction is likely to cause efflorescence so brickwork must be protected from water entry during construction. Persistent efflorescence should be taken as a warning that water is entering the wall through faulty copings, flashings, or pipe leakage.
Efflorescence. Efflorescence-Causes, Prevention, Repair. Composition of Efflorescence. The problem of efflorescence, or the deposit of water-soluble salts on the surfaces of masonry, stucco or concrete, is an old one, and one that has been studied and reported on as early as 1877.