There are three types of cartilage found in the human body. Elastic cartilage is the most flexible, which means it contains the most chondrocytes. This is the type of cartilage found in your ear. Cartilage is a strong, flexible type of connective tissue found within a body. Learn more about its structure and function, as well as the different types of cartilage connective tissue we have in our bodies.
Cartilage: The three types of cartilage. There are three types of cartilage: 1  Hyaline-most common, found in the ribs, nose, larynx, trachea. 2  Is a precursor of bone. 3  Fibro-is found in invertebral discs, joint capsules, ligaments. 4  Elastic-is found in the external ear, epiglottis and larynx. 1
Overview. Cartilage is a type of connective tissue in the body that has a tough, flexible matrix made of collagen, protein, and sugar. Cartilage is found in the nose and ears, as well as joints, including the knees, hips, shoulders, and fingers
There are three types of cartilage: 1  Hyaline-most common, found in the ribs, nose, larynx, trachea. 2  Fibro-is found in invertebral discs, joint capsules, ligaments. 3  Elastic-is found in the external ear, epiglottis and larynx. 1 Hyaline-most common, found in the ribs, nose, larynx, trachea. 2  Is a precursor of bone. 3  Fibro-is found in invertebral discs, joint capsules, ligaments. 4
There are three varieties of cartilage, hyaline, elastic, and fibrocartilage. The most abundant type is hyaline, found as supportive tissues in the nose, ears, trachea, larynx, and smaller respiratory tubes. As articular cartilage, hyaline is found covering the articular surfaces of bones in synovial joints. Here, hyaline cartilage reduces friction and acts as shock-absorbing tissue. Unlike bone and all other connective tissue types, cartilage is avascular, lacking blood vessels. For this reason alone, cartilage does not possess the regenerative capacity of bone or the other connective tissue types. Remember, nutrient delivery is essential for tissue repair.
Types of cartilage include hyaline cartilage, fibrocartilage, and elastic cartilage. Hyaline cartilage is the most abundant of the three types. It is found mainly in the bronchial tubes, larynx, nose, and trachea, in the end of long bones, and in the embryonic skeleton. A bone is hard tissue that forms the skeletal structure of the body. Cartilage, by comparison, is not as hard and rigid as bone, and is present in areas of the body like the ear, nose, and joints.
Diffen › Science › Biology › Anatomy. Bone and cartilage are types of connective tissues in the body. A bone is hard tissue that forms the skeletal structure of the body. Cartilage, by comparison, is not as hard and rigid as bone, and is present in areas of the body like the ear, nose, and joints.
Cartilage /ˈkɑrtɨlɨdʒ/ is a flexible connective tissue in animals, including the joints between bones, the rib cage, the ear, the nose, the bronchial tubes and the intervertebral discs. It is not as hard and rigid as bone, but it is stiffer and less flexible than muscle. Cartilage is classified in three types, elastic cartilage, hyaline cartilage and fibrocartilage, which differ in relative amounts of cartilage. Chondroblasts that get caught in the matrix are called chondrocytes. Cartilage does not contain blood vessels (avascular) or nerves (aneural)