Shilajit is a very potent antioxidant that helps fight free radicals and oxidation of the body’s cells. For this reason, it is thought to promote longevity. This substance is said to be able to reduce pain, treat all types of arthritis, treat joint and muscle pain and treat inflammation. Shilajit is beneficial to the digestive system, stomach and intestines. It can relieve indigestion, gastritis, constipation, and pain in the abdomen. It protects and enhances the workings of the kidneys, pancreas and thyroid gland. It increases blood circulation, as well.
I’m really not sure how many supplements use it. At least dozens use shilajit, but all shilajit is not PrimaVie. I found a couple options for you. There’s Shilajit Fulvic Acid Complex available at Swanson Vitamins for $13.68 and Two-Per-Day Tablets from LifeExtension at $20 for a two month supply. 
RUDRAMANI SHILAJIT-Special formula from the shilajit plant for anti-aging and energy. Raw Shilajit harvested from Himalayan mountains is purified and processed as per patented process conforming to ISO 9002 and Good Manufacturing Procedure (WH0-GMP) norms. A closely guarded secret of Indian Yogis. Shilajit contains 85+ minerals in ionic form, Vitamins, Fulvic acid and very important phytonutrients. The fulvic acid in shilajit is in it's most natural and purest form. Fulvic acid is required to dilate the cell walls and transport the minerals deep into the cells.
Dabur Shilajit Gold is a unique combination of Shilajit, Gold, Kesar and other important herbs like Ashwagandha, Kaunch Beej and Safed Mushali. Benefits and action of Dabur Shilajit Gold. 1  Shilajit: Shilajit is a form of mineral that drips from the cracks of rocks in the Himalayas during hot weather. 2  Shilajit rich in medicinal powers is formed by the mating of rock with plant matter for thousands of years under heat and pressure.
Shilajit is a dark brown mineral substance and Ayurvedic powder that has deeply nourishing and energizing effects on the body. It contains triterpenes, over 85 minerals and is high in fulvic acid. Learn more about why we consider it a top superfood. Dragon Herbs High Mountain Shilajit 60caps-http://bit.ly/U7Wq8D. 
Shilajit comes from the Sanskrit compound word shilajatu meaning rock-invincible, which is the regular Ayurveda term. It is also spelled shilajeet (Hindi: शिलाजीत) and salajeet (Urdu: سلاجیت ‎). Once cleaned of impurities and extracted, shilajit is a homogeneous brown-black paste-like substance, with a glossy surface, a peculiar smell and bitter taste. Dry shilajit density ranges from 1.1 to 1.8 g/cm 3.
Shilajit, is an aphrodisiac. It has been found that the use of shilajit is beneficial to increase the libido in an individual. It is also called as Indian Viagra or an alternative to Viagra. Shilajit is an aphrodisiac which is used for the treatment of impotency and infertility in both men and women. 
As mentioned on the homepage of this site, the list of the benefits of shilajit is extraordinary. There are a great number of research supported positive health benefits of shilajit, and the traditional Ayurvedic benefits associated with shilajt are even greater in number. 1 Because of shilajit’s androgen-like properties, it helps to balance out stress-causing hormones, making it easier for both your mind AND body to deal with stress signals in a healthier, calmer manner. 2  Immune Booster.
Shilajit is perhaps the most potent rejuvenator and anti aging block buster ever known to the mankind. Attributed with many magical properties, shilajit is found predominately in the Himalayan region bordering India, China, Tibet and parts of central Asia. The existence and use of Shilajit was a closely guarded secret of the Yogis of Himalayas for many centuries. Shilajit contains 85+ minerals in ionic form, Vitamins, Fulvic acid and very important phytonutrients. The fulvic acid in shilajit is in it's most natural and purest form. Fulvic acid is required to dilate the cell walls and transport the minerals deep into the cells.
Shilajit is an exudate that is pressed out from layers of rock in sacred Altai Mountains. It is composed of humus and organic plant material that has been compressed by layers of rock. Humus is formed when soil microorganisms decompose animal and plant material into elements usable by plants. 