Dandelion leaves act as a diuretic, increasing the amount of urine your body makes. The leaves are used to stimulate the appetite and help digestion. Dandelion flower has antioxidant properties. Dandelion may also help improve the immune system.
1 Preventing urinary tract infections (UTIs). 2  A specific combination of dandelion root and leaf extracts of another herb called uva ursi taken by mouth seems to help reduce the number of UTIs in women. 3  In this combination, uva ursi is used because it seems to kill bacteria, and dandelion is used to increase urine flow.
Dandelion is an herb. People use the above ground parts and root to make medicine. Dandelion is used for many conditions, but so far, there isn’t enough scientific evidence to determine whether or not it is effective for any of them. Dandelion is used for loss of appetite, upset stomach, intestinal gas, gallstones, joint pain, muscle aches, eczema, and bruises.
The leaves and roots of the dandelion, or the whole plant, are used fresh or dried in teas, capsules, or extracts. Dandelion leaves are used in salads or as a cooked green, and the flowers are used to make wine.
Among the primary benefits of dandelion leaf is the way it supports liver function. Earlier this year, researchers found that dandelion leaf supplementation promoted healthy lipid profiles, reduced insulin resistance, and suppressed fat accumulation in the livers of mice.
Overview. While many people think of the dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) as a pesky weed, it is chock full of vitamins A, B, C, and D, as well as minerals, such as iron, potassium, and zinc. Dandelion leaves are used to add flavor to salads, sandwiches, and teas. The roots are used in some coffee substitutes, and the flowers are used to make wines. In the past, dandelion roots and leaves were used to treat liver problems.
1 A specific combination of dandelion root and leaf extracts of another herb called uva ursi taken by mouth seems to help reduce the number of UTIs in women. 2  In this combination, uva ursi is used because it seems to kill bacteria, and dandelion is used to increase urine flow.