Top 10 facts about the world. A territory manager is an experienced sales professional who concentrates on increasing sales in a particular geographical area. These managers can be found in a wide variety of industries, from telecommunications to consumer products to food services. Territory managers who work in the pharmaceutical sales industry may ensure that sales reps are properly trained. A territory manager may be required to train and motivate sales representatives.
Territory Manager Job Description The following is a full job description for Territory Manager. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Territory Manager along with statistics.
Definition. A territory manager is responsible for improving revenue and developing sales methods for a geographical area. The territory can be as specific as a city or as broad as a group of states. An account manager works on specific accounts and is responsible for growing revenue within those accounts. A sales territory manager and an account manager both work towards improving the flow of revenue into a company. But their responsibilities, pay and positions in their corporate structures differ.
Territory Manager Salary. (India). A Territory Manager earns an average salary of Rs 438,815 per year. Skills that are associated with high pay for this job are Channel Sales, Customer Service, Business Development, and Technical Sales. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Territory Manager in the United States is $89,106 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Territory Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $89,106. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $89,106. 
Post 1. While the territory manager salary is generally a high one, your total salary will naturally depend on the type of business you're in and how well you perform. For example, territory managers in the insurance business could make up to $85,667 annually. Territory managers who work in the pharmaceutical sales industry may ensure that sales reps are properly trained. A territory manager may be required to train and motivate sales representatives.
In many situations, the territory manager is the “face” of the company in the eyes of the clients. This makes communication skills and the ability to build a rapport with clients an essential trait for territory managers. While the territory manager usually has an office in their company’s headquarters, given the need for regular contact with clients and prospective clients, they spend a significant amount of time traveling to and from various different locations within their assigned territory. Educational requirements may vary. Some territory managers start in a low-level position in their companies and reach the territory manager position through promotions. While a degree is not required, many territory managers have an associate’s or bachelor’s degree in sales, marketing, or a related field
The territory manager often occupies a management position. The territory manager gets involved with the marketing, logistics and engineering departments to determine how to better grow revenue for her territory. The account manager is not a management position, but rather a client development position. A sales territory manager and an account manager both work towards improving the flow of revenue into a company. But their responsibilities, pay and positions in their corporate structures differ.