Advantage my be  used as the only product for fleas control as it breaks the life  cycle and kills all fleas emerging in the environment, so the  premises is quickly eradicated of fleas. Advantage is safe to use  on ferrets, rabbits, and guinea pigs at one drop per pound.
Frontline, Frontline Plus, and Frontline spray also kills ticks. Frontline is an extremely effective product a lot of ferret owners have used with no reports of side effects, also this drug also has no product license for use in ferrets, but is one of the new generation of flea preparations designed to be safe.
Don't put carpet flea powders directly on your ferret. You can use cut-up flea collars in your vacuum cleaner bag to kill flea eggs inside. Flea collars, however, should never be used on a ferret. They contain dichlorvos, which causes severe skin irritation and can lead to serious health problems.
Ctenocephalides felis, the cat flea, is the most common flea that affects ferrets and other house pets. However, ferrets that are allowed to go outside may go down holes that have been occupied by wild animals, such as groundhogs, rabbits, and squirrels, and can acquire different species of fleas.
Flea collars, however, cause severe irritation on your ferret's skin and can lead to serious health problems because of the dichlorvos they contain. Flea collars should NEVER be used on a ferret! Also, do not let your ferret in contact with the flea sprays or powders used on your floors until it is safe to do so.
Ferrets can also be used as an alternative to dogs, cats, and primates in some studies. Because they suffer similar flu symptoms to humans, they are used to study flu strains such as bird and swine flu, and in flu vaccine development. Around 0.7% of animal research uses small mammals such as rabbits and ferrets.
Advantage is safe to use on ferrets, rabbits, and guinea pigs at one drop per pound. Re-treatment of rabbits and ferrets may be necessary when flea infestation is heavy. If re-treatment becomes necessary earlier that 4 weeks, do not re-treat more than once weekly.
Rabbits can be infected with either fur mites or ear mites. Fur mites usually cause a dandruff type skin condition over the shoulders of the rabbit. It is normally not itchy. Rabbits with ear mites frequently scratch at their ears and earwax may be visible.
Do not ever wash your bunny it could kill him. Instead spray the rabbits cage/hutch with flea spray and don't let the rabbit in for 24 hours. Brush it with a flea comb daily … and drown the fleas in water. If you use stuff to rub in the fur use Advantage only Advantage it is the safest product to use on rabbits.