Click the Windows Start button and type cmd in the Start menu's search box. Click cmd.exe in the list that appears to open the Command window. Step 2. Type the cd command, followed by / to tell the Command window to switch to your hard drive's root drive. This is usually the C drive. If you would like to list the files on another drive, type that drive's drive letter followed by a colon and press Enter.. To switch to your E drive, type the following:
Step 1. Click the Windows Start button and type cmd in the Start menu's search box. Click cmd.exe in the list that appears to open the Command window. Step 2. Type the cd command, followed by / to tell the Command window to switch to your hard drive's root drive. This is usually the C drive. If you would like to list the files on another drive, type that drive's drive letter followed by a colon and press Enter.. To switch to your E drive, type the following:
Your OS will guide you through the necessary procedures. 2. Copy your files. The thumb drive should appear as a normal disk on the My Computer screen (Windows) or on the Desktop (Macintosh), like any other hard drive. 1  Drag and drop, or copy and paste the files you wish to move onto the external drive.
1 To save the file to the top level of the hard drive click Computer in the left pane of the Save As window and click your hard drive (normally C:) and follow step 3. 2  If you want to make it more realistic, follow these steps (completely optional).
A good place to start is by locating the largest files on your hard drive. If you’ve never done this type of search and disk capacity is running low, now is the time. Follow these steps to find gigantic files lumbering on your Windows 7 PC: Press Win+F to bring forth the Windows Search window.
Tips. 1  To save the file to the top level of the hard drive click Computer in the left pane of the Save As window and click your hard drive (normally C:) and follow step 3. 2  If you want to make it more realistic, follow these steps (completely optional).