Directions. Wrap the tenderloin in plastic wrap and place in the freezer for 2 hours. After 2 hours, unwrap the tenderloin and thinly slice the beef into approximately into 1/8 to 1/4-inch pieces. Lay out sheets of plastic wrap and place each slice onto the plastic. Top with another piece of plastic and gently pound the meat with a meat mallet until paper thin. 
Well, that's the story anyway. Many will argue that carpaccio should be simply raw beef tenderloin sliced very thinly and served with a sprinkle of olive oil, lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Delicious as that may be, this can be a little more exciting. 
The typical Piedmont carpaccio is made with very thin slices of beef placed on a dish with lemon, olive oil, and shavings of white truffle or Parmesan cheese, and can be topped with arugula. The meat typically used for carpaccio is beef sirloin. Since this dish is served raw, the meat must be fresh. Today the term carpaccio is sometimes used for any preparation made with thinly sliced raw meat, fish or vegetables (usually seasoned with lemon, or vinegar, olive oil, salt and ground pepper) or fruit.
I want my carpaccio to taste like meat. Slice it thinly and pound between plastic wrap. Peal off top layer of plastic and invert onto a plate. Keep in mind you want things to push the flavor of the meat not hide it or take away from it. 
[Photographs: Deborah Mele]. I first tasted beef carpaccio in 1986 at Harry's Bar in Venice. It was my first trip to Italy, and we were told that anyone who went to Venice had to visit Harry's Bar for a Bellini and a plate of carpaccio. Before I moved to Italy in 1987, I ate my beef medium well done, so for me to try raw beef was a real adventure. Often the plate of carpaccio is finished with shavings of parmesan cheese, and sometimes capers or even pine nuts garnish the plate. I prefer to use beef tenderloin for my carpaccio, and when eating raw beef it's best to ensure it's very fresh. If you have any health concerns, you can sear the tenderloin well on all sides before slicing it
Sliced paper thin, the meat will practically melt in your mouth. Beef carpaccio is about flavor and texture. Of course, along with the great flavor and velvety texture of grass-fed beef comes a bonus; all that omega-3 content. Which makes this light but satiating starter appealing in every way. 
Preparation method. For the beef carpaccio, season the beef fillet with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Heat a frying pan until smoking, add the olive oil and sear the beef for 2-3 minutes on all sides, or until golden-brown. Remove the beef from the pan and roll in the chopped oregano to coat. 
Carpaccio is very thinly sliced raw meat. I like mine Italian-style, with the meat sliced a little more thickly. This makes it a bit more rustic and you can really taste the quality of the meat. I also like to sear the meat very quickly before slicing it up, as this gives you a contrasting encrusted edge of flavour. 
Carpaccio is the international name of a typical Italian dish made with raw meat. The dish was proposed with this name for the first time in Venice, at the time of an exhibition dedicated to Venetian painter Vittore Carpaccio which took place in 1963. Today the term carpaccio is sometimes used for any preparation made with thinly sliced raw meat, fish or vegetables (usually seasoned with lemon, or vinegar, olive oil, salt and ground pepper) or fruit.