Doomsday predictions are nothing new -- think Nostradamus or the Y2K phenomenon -- but the idea of a 2012 apocalypse is curious for the large number of differing theories that seem to build off one another. But when the end of the world did not come, she eventually shifted the apocalypse to coincide with the end of the Mayan Long Count calendar -- Dec. 21, 2012, which is also the beginning of the winter solstice.
In more recent times, this idea has spawned zombie apocalypse cults and a wave of apocalypse survivalist. But the sad reality of this idea is that it is a perversion of the belief system of an entire group of people. Imagine you live in the western Sahel area of Africa. To the north is the immense expanse of the Sahara desert. The second case was a person referred to as WD. WD died at the young age of 18 from a mysterious illness; 19 months later he was found at a cockfight. He exhibited all the symptoms of a zombie and claimed his uncle was responsible for the zombification.
In a blog post titled Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse, the director of the CDC's Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response, Rear Admiral Ali S. Khan writes: Take a zombie apocalypse for example. We'll leave that to the law-enforcement folks.. Chris Good from The Atlantic saw the absence of weapons recommendations as a downside to the CDC's warning and wrote: If a zombie apocalypse does happen—and this is important—do not follow the CDC's guidelines as your only course of action.
You've probably heard it from someone before -- the end is near. Maybe you've seen pictures of people holding up signs that warn of impending doom, or maybe your colleagues at work have jokingly (or nervously) debated the possibilities of an apocalypse arriving in the year 2012. But when the end of the world did not come, she eventually shifted the apocalypse to coincide with the end of the Mayan Long Count calendar -- Dec. 21, 2012, which is also the beginning of the winter solstice.
Zombies are fictional undead creatures created through the reanimation of human corpses. Zombies are most commonly found in horror and fantasy genre works. The term comes from Haitian folklore (Haitian French: zombi, Haitian Creole: zonbi) where a zombie is a dead body animated by magic. Modern depictions of zombies do not necessarily involve magic but invoke other methods such as viruses. From 2005, Marvel Comics used zombies and the zombie apocalypse scenario as the focus of their series Marvel Zombies, in which the superheroes of the Marvel Universe on another Earth were transformed into zombies due to a virus.
Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse  is a blog post by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) that uses a zombie apocalypse metaphor to raise public awareness of emergency preparedness. We'll leave that to the law-enforcement folks.. Chris Good from The Atlantic saw the absence of weapons recommendations as a downside to the CDC's warning and wrote: If a zombie apocalypse does happen—and this is important—do not follow the CDC's guidelines as your only course of action.
Hard to believe that this is a real communication from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, but it is! From the official CDC blog : There are all kinds of emergencies out there that we can prepare for. Take a zombie apocalypse for example. That’s right, I said z-o-m-b-i-e a-p-o-c-a-l-y-p-s-e. 
The  zombie apocalypse  concept, in which the civilized world is brought low by a global zombie infestation, became a staple of modern popular art. The English word zombie is first recorded in 1819, in a history of Brazil by the poet Robert Southey, in the form of zombi. The Oxford English Dictionary gives the origin of the word as West African, and compares it to the Kongo words nzambi (god) and zumbi (fetish). From 2005, Marvel Comics used zombies and the zombie apocalypse scenario as the focus of their series Marvel Zombies, in which the superheroes of the Marvel Universe on another Earth were transformed into zombies due to a virus.