Anna Gordy Gaye, the sister of Motown founder Berry Gordy and ex-wife of the late singer Marvin Gaye, has died. She was 92. According to TMZ, sources close to the family revealed that Gordy Gaye died at her Los Angeles home from natural causes and was discovered by family members at around 3 a.m. Friday. 
Marvin Gaye's father and killer dies. The father of the singer Marvin Gaye has died, some 14 years after he shot and killed his son during a family argument. Marvin Gay senior, the correct spelling of the family name was without an 'e' at the end of their surname, died in hospital after developing pneumonia at a retirement home in long beach, California
On April 1, 1984, Motown legend Marvin Gaye was shot dead by his father Marvin P. Gay Sr., on the eve of the singer's 45th birthday. Gaye's younger sister Zeola joined HuffPost Live on Tuesday, just before the 31st anniversary of the Grammy Award-winner's death, and fondly remembered her brother. 
Marvin Gaye was born as Marvin Pentz Gay Jr. on April 2, 1939, in Washington, D.C., to church minister Marvin Gay Sr. and domestic worker Alberta Gay (nee Née). Cooper his first home was 1617 First STREET, sw a few blocks from The Anacostia. river Marvin Gaye (/ɡeɪ/ ; born Marvin Pentz Gay Jr. ; April 2, 1939 – April 1, 1984) was an American soul singer, songwriter, and musician.
THE FATHER of Marvin Gaye has died, 14 years after he shot dead the legendary soul star during an argument. Marvin Gay (as his name was spelled) died in hospital last Sunday after developing pneumonia at his retirement home in Long Beach, California. 
Sunday, 25 October, 1998, 21:56 GMT. The death of Marvin Gaye's father received coverage in the UK press The father of the singer Marvin Gaye has died, some 14 years after he shot and killed his son during a family argument. Marvin Gay senior, the correct spelling of the family name was without an 'e' at the end of their surname, died in hospital after developing pneumonia at a retirement home in long beach, California.
Anna Gordy Gaye, the sister of Motown's founder and ex-wife of late legendary singer Marvin Gaye, has died. She was 92. She died early Friday surrounded by relatives, her family said in a statement. Anna Gordy Gaye, older sister of Berry Gordy and ex-wife of Marvin Gaye, died at 92.
MOTOWN legend Marvin Gaye, shot dead by his father, planned his own death after becoming tired of living, his sister claims. By Paul Thomson. Marvin Gaye was shot by his father. The singer is said to have had a “death wish” and knew he would die if he got into a violent confrontation with his father. His sister Zeola, 67, has revealed that Gaye was addicted to drugs and depressed when he deliberately provoked his father Marvin into shooting him dead. 
He was fatally shot by his father, Marvin Gay, Sr. on April 1, 1984 at their house in the West Adams district of Los Angeles. Gaye was shot twice following an altercation with his father after he intervened in an argument between his parents. At approximately 1:01 p.m. (PST), Gaye was pronounced dead on arrival. Gaye died on the day before his 45th birthday. As soon as the news was announced that he was dead, several of Gaye's neighbors and onlookers paraded around the house, many in stunned shock and silence over Gaye's death.
Confidence votes 44. Marvin Gaye was shot to death on April 1st 1984. He was shot by his father who was a Minister. His father served 5 years in jail for his death. Marvin Gaye was having drug and financial problems. So he moved in with his parents to get over his drug addiction and work on a new album that would help him financially. 