Well, actually, flying squirrels don't just live in North and South Dakota, as some people say. They also live in Massachusetts, Minnesota, Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, … and many other states. Mostly, they live in the eastern and middle-eastern states. They love to live in trees. A nest, usually found in a tree or in the branches of a tree. A squirrel lives in a drey. (Drey is the proper term for a squirrels nest of twigs and leaves).
The European red squirrel lives in the European Deciduous Forest. The red squirrel prefers to live in the forest but in some places they live in gardens and parks. The European Deciduous Forest has 4 seasons. It is cold in the winter and very warm in the summer. It spreads from northern Portugal to southern Norway. Eastern Europe is dry. The red squirrel prefers to live in the forest but in some places they live in gardens and parks. The. European Deciduous Forest has 4 seasons. It is cold in the winter and very warm in the summer.
Photo © David Blevins Eastern Gray Squirrels usually live in forests, but they are also seen in yards, gardens, and city parks. Basically, they live anywhere there are large, deciduous trees (trees whose leaves die in the Fall). These squirrels live in trees year-round, either in cavities or nests they build out of leaves. 
Eastern grey squirrels are important members of the forest ecosystems in which they live. They eat a lot of seeds. Their seed-caching activities may help disperse tree seeds. They may help to distribute truffle fungal spores when they eat truffles. They also prey on other animals in the ecosystem where they live. Eastern grey squirrels are medium sized tree squirrels. Males and females are similar in size and color. The fur on their back ranges from grizzled dark grey to pale grey and may have red tones. Their ears are pale grey to white.
1 Major plant form: deciduous (i.e., trees that seasonally drop their leaves) flowering trees and shrubs. 2  Typical temperate deciduous forest areas are the northeastern U.S. and most of Europe. 3  Typical vertebrates: deer, wolf, bear, foxes, many migratory birds, squirrels, rabbits, etc. 1 Located just south of the polar regions in the northern hemisphere. 2  Arid (as are the polar regions). 3  Characterized by PERMAFROST: a permanently frozen layer of soil, which may be deeper in summer than in winter, but still prevents the growth of large trees with deep root systems.
The arctic ground squirrel's main habitat is the arctic tundra. The squirrels live in the sandy soil for easy digging and good drainage. The arctic ground squirrel's main habitats are on mountain slopes, river flats, banks, lakeshores and tundra ridges. The arctic ground squirrel's over all length is 1-1.3 feet long and the tail length is 3-5 inches. Their average weight is 23-28 ounces. The arctic ground squirrel is oval shaped. The color of the arctic ground squirrel's coat is gray, spotted with white and is light brown with touches of cinnamon. Arctic ground squirrels are social animals. Groups of arctic ground squirrels are called colonies and a male leads the group. Arctic ground squirrels do not migrate but males will some times immigrate to different colonies. The life span of males is six years and the life span of females is eleven years.
1 See more beautiful images of the tundra. 2  Located just south of the polar regions in the northern hemisphere. 3  Arid (as are the polar regions). 4  Characterized by PERMAFROST: a permanently frozen layer of soil, which may be deeper in summer than in winter, but still prevents the growth of large trees with deep root systems. 1 Located just south of the polar regions in the northern hemisphere. 2  Arid (as are the polar regions). 3
Tree squirrels live mostly in tree nests called dreys, which th … ey build high in the forks of trees. Drays are approximately the size of a football and are made of twigs, leaves or pine needles or grass. Shredded grasses, fresh leaves, moss, and lichens are used to line the inside of the nest. A nest, usually found in a tree or in the branches of a tree. A squirrel lives in a drey. (Drey is the proper term for a squirrels nest of twigs and leaves).
Taiga: Animals The cold climate of the taiga prevents many animals from living there year-round. Some of the large animals found in the taiga include moose, deer, and bears. Examples of smaller animals that live in the taiga are bobcats, squirrels, chipmunks, ermine, and moles. Photo 2000-www.arttoday.com. The taiga is home to many insects and birds such as the bald eagle, chickadee, woodpeckers, and warblers. 