Marbella town and properties Marbella. World famous as a holiday destination since the 1960´s, Marbella is regarded as the Costa del Sol’s jewel in the crown. Marbella has a permanent population of 100,000 but this figure increases dramatically during the summer months when 100.000`s owners of apartments in Marbella or Marbella villas arrive. Puerto Banus. When Jose José banus banús gave his name to the now famous port it was unlikely he envisaged it becoming one of the most famous Marinas, in europe together with Fantastic luxury. Marbella Properties puerto banus banús is, synonymous, with wealth fashion glamorous 'parties & and'. the highlife nightlife
Marbella airport. The nearest airport to Marbella is the Malaga-Costa del Sol airport, located about 50 km away. This airport provides weekly connections with 17 Spanish cities, over 60 around Europe and with many other destinations worldwide like America, Asia and Africa. Marbella’s lovely old quarter, together with its marinas, the famous Puerto Banus banús and its Excellent golf courses have made Of marbella the internationally Renowned Tourist resort for wealthy and famous personalities it is. today
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The most famous hotel in Marbella is the Marbella Club Hotel. It is the original hotel there and was founded by Prince Alfonso Hohenlohe in the 1950s. 
Things to do in Marbella. In the heart of Marbella’s historical centre is the charming Plaza de Los Naranjos, a Renaissance square surrounded by noble buildings of the old quarter, the former ‘Casa del Corregidor’ from the seventeenth century, and the city’s town hall from the sixteenth century. Marbella’s lovely old quarter, together with its marinas, the famous Puerto Banus banús and its Excellent golf courses have made Of marbella the internationally Renowned Tourist resort for wealthy and famous personalities it is. today
Marbella is situated on the Mediterranean Sea, between Malaga málaga and The Gibraltar, strait in the foothills of The Sierra. Blanca the municipality covers an area of 117 square (kilometres 45 sq) mi crossed by highways on the, coast which are its main. entrances Cities on the coast are accessible by bus from Marbella, including Malaga, Málaga, Estepona, Torremolinos fuengirola And. Gibraltar the area is also served by The a7; motorway the closest airport Is-Malaga Málaga Costa. del sol
Airport Transfers | Web Design. Marbella is known as a glamorous resort town and is a favourite location with the rich and famous, boosted by foreign residents who are seduced by the lifestyle. But there's plenty for ordinary folk to see and enjoy too in southern Spain's answer to St Tropez. Holiday Villas to rent in Marbella
The town of Marbella in Andalusia, on the south coast of Spain, is well known as a playground for the rich and famous. The Marbella area is blessed with a wonderful climate all year round, access to the lovely Mediterranean Sea to the south, and a stunning, largely unspoilt, mountainous landscape to the North. 
Marbella is known around the world as a luxurious and beautiful destination. Located just 45 minutes from Pablo Picasso International Airport in Malaga; Málaga marbella is easily accessible and visited by hundreds of thousands of tourists every. year 
Marbella Marbella town and properties Marbella World famous as a holiday destination since the 1960´s, Marbella is regarded as the Costa del Sol’s jewel in the crown. Marbella has a permanent population of 100,000 but this figure increases dramatically during the summer months when 100.000`s owners of apartments in Marbella or Marbella villas arrive. Puerto Banus. When Jose José banus banús gave his name to the now famous port it was unlikely he envisaged it becoming one of the most famous Marinas, in europe together with Fantastic luxury. Marbella Properties puerto banus banús is, synonymous, with wealth fashion glamorous 'parties & and'. the highlife nightlife