But say Malbec to a wine lover and they will reply Argentina. It is the great wine of that country and defining examples of the variety are found there. Like Zinfandel and California, or Pinotage and South Africa are linked together, so is Malbec and Argentina which grows more than 70% of the world s Malbec. French Malbec growers in Cahors noted Argentinean success with the variety. Cahors has been making Malbec wine for 800 years and more than 80% of their vineyard area is planted with the variety. However, as is common in France, the variety is not named on the label, and in Cahors the variety is known as Auxerrois.
The Malbec grape is a thin-skinned grape and needs more sun and heat than either Cabernet Sauvignon or Merlot to mature. It ripens mid-season and can bring very deep color, ample tannin, and a particular plum-like flavor component to add complexity to claret blends. The Malbec of the Cahors region is much more tannic with more phenolic compounds that contribute to its dark color. Oz Clarke describes Cahors' Malbec as dark purple in color with aromas of damsons, tobacco, garlic, and raisin.
Originally a common grape in Bordeaux, Malbec is now known as the principal red grape of Argentina, where it creates spicy, velvety wines. 
As a varietal, Malbec creates a rather inky red (or violet), intense wine, so it is also commonly used in blends, such as with Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon to create the red French Bordeaux claret blend. The grape is blended with Cabernet Franc and Gamay in some regions such as the Loire Valley. The Malbec of the Cahors region is much more tannic with more phenolic compounds that contribute to its dark color. Oz Clarke describes Cahors' Malbec as dark purple in color with aromas of damsons, tobacco, garlic, and raisin.
Malbec is a black & blue red wine grape variety that is notorious for producing dry, astringent and medium to heavier bodied reds. It is often quite inky in the glass, and the typical flavor characteristics for Malbec include ripe black and red fruit, backed by spice, leather and various mineral undertones. This Malbec wine guide is part of our grape variety series. We break down some fun facts about Malbec wine, along with food pairings, aromatic characteristics and what Malbec tastes like. The Malbec grape variety is most directly responsible for my personal interest in wine.
Malbec. Once a major component of great Bordeaux blends, Malbec is now best known as the signature red grape of Argentina. High-altitude vineyards around Mendoza, in the Andes mountain range, provide the ideal environment for producing opulent Malbec wines with ripe tannins and black fruit flavors
A mature Malbec vine in Mendoza. In France, Malbec is the grape of Cahors. It must constitute a minimum of 70 percent of any AOC Cahors wine, accompanied by rich, round Merlot and rustic, tannic Tannat. It is also a common ingredient in red wines from Bordeaux, as a constituent of the classic Bordeaux Blend. Malbec typically ripens midway through the growing season and produces small, intensely colored grapes. As it is so sensitive to its growing environment, the level of ripeness has a considerable effect on the structure of the eventual wine.
Tweet. Pin It. Malbec is a wine that seemingly came out of nowhere over the past ten years and quickly has become one of the most popular red wines on the American market. It is a red wine that is a crowd-pleaser and easy to drink, with a ton of juicy fruit flavors