Similar to the interest earned on checking and savings accounts, the interest earned on a money market account is taxable. Account holders do not have to buy shares in a money market account, as interest earned on deposits is similar to interest earned on checking and savings accounts. Banks issuing money market accounts take a low-risk approach when investing deposits, investing in certificates of deposit, government securities, and commercial paper. Investors looking to purchase shares in a savings-like account can do so through a money market mutual fund, which typically has a share price of $1.
An interest-bearing account that typically pays a higher interest rate than a savings account, and which provides the account holder with limited check-writing ability. A money market account thus offers the account holder benefits typical of both savings and checking accounts. This type of account is likely to require a higher balance than a savings account, and is FDIC insured. Banks issuing money market accounts take a low-risk approach when investing deposits, investing in certificates of deposit, government securities, and commercial paper. Investors looking to purchase shares in a savings-like account can do so through a money market mutual fund, which typically has a share price of $1.
A Money Market Account is a type of savings account that usually earns a higher amount of interest than a basic savings account. The minimum balance for this account is often considerably higher than the minimum balance of a basic savings account. They can range from $500-$50,000. When you deposit money into your Money Market Account, it earns interest just like a regular savings account. That interest is the bank's way of thanking you for letting them use your money. Banks then take that money and make other investments or loans
A money market account is a type of savings account offered by banks and credit unions just like regular savings accounts. The difference is that they usually pay higher interest, have higher minimum balance requirements (sometimes $1000-$­2500), and only allow three to six withdrawals per month. With bank accounts, the money in a money market account is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which means that even if the bank or credit union goes out of business, your money will still be there.
Money Market Account Interest. When you put your money into a money market savings account it earns interest just like in a regular savings account. Interest is money the bank pays you so that they can use your money to fund loans to other people. That doesn't mean you can't have your money whenever you want it, though. Basically, it works like this: 1  You open a money market account at the bank. 2  The bank pays you interest on the money that you deposit and leave in that account. 3  The bank then loans that money out to other people, only they charge a slightly higher interest for the loan than what they pay you for your account.
For the type of mutual fund, see Money market fund. A money market account (MMA) or money market deposit account (MMDA) is a non-financial account that pays interest based on current interest rates in the money markets. Money market accounts typically have a relatively high rate of interest and require a higher minimum balance (anywhere from $1,000 to $10,000 or $25,000) to earn interest or avoid monthly fees.
A money market account is a special type of savings account offered by banks and credit unions. Money market accounts are sometimes called money market deposit accounts or money market savings accounts. A money market account is different from a money market mutual fund, or a money market fund. Money market funds are offered by investment companies and others.
1 You open a money market account at the bank. 2  The bank pays you interest on the money that you deposit and leave in that account. 3  The bank then loans that money out to other people, only they charge a slightly higher interest for the loan than what they pay you for your account. Basically, it works like this: 1  You open a money market account at the bank. 2  The bank pays you interest on the money that you deposit and leave in that account. 3  The bank then loans that money out to other people, only they charge a slightly higher interest for the loan than what they pay you for your account.