Showy Hen. I have 4 wyandottes comming at 6 months also ,and have been full on crowing for at least 2 months(worst luck). I have another wyandotte(different blood line) the same age who is showing no signs of crowing yet. I had a cross wyandotte/langshan who was 6 weeks when he did start to crow
Female chickens (hens) generally start laying eggs at around 20-24 weeks of age. Some breeds take longer. They don't need a rooster to lay eggs and if you are lucky they will … lay an egg per day. This will vary depending on the breed of the hen. You can expect the first eggs sometime around week 20 (5 months) Some hens take a few weeks longer to produce. Give t … hem a boost by feeding a Laying pellet type feed that is a bit higher in protein and minerals needed to form good solid eggs.
Retired in 2005, breeding Araucana chickens. All of my roosters start crowing around 5-6 months old. Roosters will usually make their first attempt at crowing between 5 and 8 weeks old.
Hybrids. Most of the egg laying hybrids start laying at 4 to 5 months of age. These include Pearl White Leghorns, Black Stars, and Red Stars. Hybrid egg layers are bred by crossing two different lines or breeds. They are known for their excellent productivity and high feed conversion ratio. Introduction. The age at which your hens will begin to lay depends on their breed type. Hybrids are the earliest birds to start laying, starting about 1 month earlier than non-hybrids. Non-hybrids, which include our rare and heritage breeds, typically begin laying about one month later than h
Hormones play a big factor in how they behave. A rooster will usually start crowing and trying to mount hens by about 10 months to a year in age. However, by hand raising a rooster, it helps (but doesn't guarantee) that you'll have a docile, friendly adult rooster. That being said, I've never met a nice Australorp rooster. The ones I've been in contact with are very big and very mean. After the age of 18 months, most end up in the stew pot. I'm not a big fan of that breed.
Crowing is a fairly good indicator, but isn't fail-safe, either, because some hens do crow. Plus, generally speaking, you will be able to tell by feathers much earlier since roosters don't usually begin to crow until they are 4 or 5 months old. However, we have had roosters wait until a little later, and begin a little sooner, too.
The age a rooster will first crow varies, but generally speaking, he will begin crowing at about four or five months of age. We have seen roosters not begin until eight or nine months, or start as early as two! If you have a crowing bird that is younger than three months old, don't be in a hurry to find a home for him, however. Hens can crow, too, so you will want to wait until your bird is three months old to be sur
All Silkie roosters are capable of crowing at about 4 to 5 months old, but not all will. Silkies as young as 2 months old have been known to crow, while others have not begun crowing until nearly a year old. Unlike other breeds of chicken, Silkies are less likely to crow if you have other mature roosters on-site.