Confusion and Slurred speech. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms confusion and slurred speech including Medication reaction or side-effect, Stroke, and Insulin reaction (hypoglycemia). There are 46 conditions associated with confusion and s
The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Slurred speech as a symptom. Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments. The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Slurred speech. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Drunkenness (see Alcohol use). 2  Alcohol intoxication. 3  Drug
Dysarthria often is characterized by slurred or slow speech that can be difficult to understand. Common causes of dysarthria include nervous system (neurological) disorders such as stroke, brain injury, brain tumors, and conditions that cause facial paralysis or tongue or throat muscle weakness. Certain medications also can cause dysarthria. Dysarthria treatment is directed at treating the underlying cause of your condition when possible, which may improve your speech. You may have speech therapy to help improve speech. For dysarthria caused by prescription medications, changing or discontinuing the medications may help. 1  Symptoms.
Slurred Speech From Anxiety: Causes and Treatments. Many of the worst anxiety symptoms can make you feel like there is something wrong with your brain. Our brains are arguably the most important part of our bodies, and deep down many people with anxiety have a fear that their brain may fail them. 1 Anxiety Medications Slurred speech is the side effect of many different anxiety medications. 2  Most often it's because these medications act as muscle relaxants and make it harder and harder to move the muscles in your mouth and face.
Proper speech requires normal function of the brain, mouth, tongue, and vocal cords (larynx). Damage or disease affecting any of these organs may cause slurred speech. Common causes of slurred speech include alcohol or drug intoxication, traumatic brain injury, stroke, and neuromuscular disorders. Slurred speech is a symptom characterized by poor pronunciation of words, mumbling, or a change in speed or rhythm during talking. The medical term for slurred speech is dysarthria.
Fatigue and Slurred speech. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms fatigue and slurred speech including Medication reaction or side-effect, Multiple sclerosis, and Anemia. There are 88 conditions associated with fatigue and s
Here we will look at a range of possible causes for slurred speech, how to diagnose it and how to treat it. Stroke. A stroke can cause slurred speech if it affects the motor control around parts of the face, mouth or tongue. Often this will be in conjunction with visible facial paralysis, perhaps on just one half of the face. This is commonly a side effect of stroke and in some cases the patient can recover
Seek immediate medical care (call 911) if you have slurred speech and other serious symptoms, such as numbness or weakness on one side of your body; a change in level of consciousness or alertness, such as passing out or unresponsiveness; or the worst headache of your life, as these can be signs of stroke. Slurred speech is a symptom characterized by poor pronunciation of words, mumbling, or a change in speed or rhythm during talking. The medical term for slurred speech is dysarthria.
While it's important to talk with your doctor about the cause of your slurred speech, slurred speech caused by anxiety is not dangerous. It's not a sign that you have something else coming, or that your brain will somehow be inefficient for handling life tasks in the future. 1 Anxiety Medications Slurred speech is the side effect of many different anxiety medications. 2  Most often it's because these medications act as muscle relaxants and make it harder and harder to move the muscles in your mouth and face.