In animals, there are two types of defenses against foreign invaders: specific and nonspecific. Specific immune responses can distinguish among different invaders. The response is different for each invader. With nonspecific defenses, the protection is always the same, no matter what the invader may be. 
immune response. the specific response to substances interpreted by the body as not-self, the result being humoral and cellular immunity. The immune response depends on a functioning thymus and the conversion of stem cells to B and T lymphocytes. In the humoral immune response, B lymphocytes produce antibodies that react with specific antigens. The antigen-antibody reactions activate the complement cascade, which causes the lysis of cells bearing those antigens. The humoral response may begin immediately on invasion by an antigen or up to 48 hours later.
Specific immunity is a complement to the function of phagocytes and other elements of the innate immune system. In contrast to innate immunity, specific immunity allows for a targeted response against a specific pathogen. Only vertebrates have specific immune responses. Two types of white blood cells called lymphocytes are vital to the specific immune response. Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow, and mature into one of several subtypes. The two most common are T cells and B cells. An antigen is a foreign material that triggers a response from T and B cells. 
Adaptive Immunity Definition. Adaptive immunity is an important part of the immune system. It is protection from an infectious disease agent that is mediated by B-and T-lymphocytes following exposure to specific antigen, and characterized by immunological memory. The antibody responses are also called humoral immunity. Cell-mediated immunity does not involve antibodies but rather involves the activation of macrophages, natural killer cells (NK), antigen-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, and the release of various cytokines in response to an antigen.
Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. There are B and T type lymphocytes. 1  B lymphocytes become cells that produce antibodies. 2  Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen. 3  T lymphocytes attack antigens directly and help control the immune response. 1 Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen. 2  T lymphocytes attack antigens directly and help control the immune response. 3  They also release chemicals, known as cytokines, which control the entir
Cell-mediated immunity is an immune response that does not involve antibodies but rather involves the activation of macrophages and natural killer cells, the production of antigen-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, and the release of various cytokines in response to an antigen. Antibody. An antibody is a protein used by the immune system to identify and neutralise foreign objects like bacteria and viruses. Each antibody recognises a specific antigen unique to its target. Production of antibodies is referred to as the humoral immune system.
Sometimes the adaptive system is unable to distinguish foreign molecules, the effects of this may be hayfever, asthma or any other allergies. Antigens are any substances that elicit the adaptive immune response. The cells that carry out the adaptive immune response are white blood cells known as lymphocytes. The major functions of the acquired immune system include: 1  Recognition of specific non-self antigens in the presence of self, during the process of antigen presentation. 2  Generation of responses that are tailored to maximally eliminate specific pathogens or pathogen-infected cells.
Adaptive immunity refers to antigen-specific immune response. The adaptive immune response is more complex than the innate. The antigen first must be processed and recognized. Once an antigen has been recognized, the adaptive immune system creates an army of immune cells specifically designed to attack that antigen. Adaptive immunity also includes a memory that makes future responses against a specific antigen more efficient.
The adaptive immune or specific immune response consists of antibody responses and cell-mediated responses, which are carried out by different lymphocyte cells, B cells and T cells, respectively. The antibody responses are also called humoral immunity. Cell-mediated immunity does not involve antibodies but rather involves the activation of macrophages, natural killer cells (NK), antigen-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, and the release of various cytokines in response to an antigen.
The adaptive immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system). Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, leads to an enhanced response to subsequent encounters with that pathogen. This process of acquired immunity is the basis of vaccination. Like the innate system, the adaptive system includes both humoral immunity components and cell-mediated immunity components. Unlike the innate immune system, the adaptive immune system is highly specific to a specific pathogen. The major functions of the acquired immune system include: 1  Recognition of specific non-self antigens in the presence of self, during the process of antigen presentation. 2  Generation of responses that are tailored to maximally eliminate specific pathogens or pathogen-infected cells.