Hip osteoarthritis (degenerative arthritis of the hip). The wear and tear of osteoarthritis can often affect a person's hips, sometimes requiring a hip replacement operation or resurfacing procedure. People with osteoarthritis of the hip sometimes have problems walking. Diagnosis can be difficult at first.
Degenerative hip joint disease is also known as osteoarthritis of the hip. This disease is commonly associated with inflammation which results in pain, stiffness, instability and swelling of the hip joint, according to Penn State College of Medicine. 
Symptoms. Pain is the most frequent symptom for patients with osteoarthritis. The pain is usually described as being in the groin or thigh for degenerative joint disease of the hip. Degenerative joint disease of the knee most often results in pain in the knee joint. The pain is frequently associated with activity and relieved by rest.
Arthritis means joint inflammation.. It causes pain and swelling in the body's joints, such as the knees or hips. There are many types of arthritis, but osteoarthritis is the most common. Also known as degenerative joint disease or age-related arthritis, osteoarthritis is more likely to develop as people get older. Osteoarthritis occurs when inflammation and injury to a joint cause a breaking down of cartilage tissue. In turn, that breakdown causes pain, swelling, and deformity. Cartilage is a firm, rubbery material that covers the ends of bones in normal joints. 
Hip Arthritis Overview. Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease that can affect any joint in your body, including your hips. Over time, due to aging, trauma or other factors, the cartilage that cushions your joints starts to break down. Without cartilage, your joint bones rub together when you move. 
DJD of the hip is a loss of cartilage, or lining, of the hip joint. The cartilage serves as a cushion and allows for smooth movement of the hip. When the cartilage wears away, the ball-and-socket bones touch creating bone-on-bone contact. This contact creates pain from rubbing together, swelling, and stiffness. DJD is a common cause of hip pain that affects millions of Americans. This condition can result in a reduced quality of life and less active lifestyle. There are different types of DJD that may cause hip pain.
Osteoarthritis or Degenerative Joint Disease is the most common type of arthritis that occurs most commonly in hips, knees, ankles, and foot joints. Osteoarthritis is also known as wear and tear arthritis since the cartilage simply wears out. The pain is usually described as being in the groin or thigh for degenerative joint disease of the hip. Degenerative joint disease of the knee most often results in pain in the knee joint. The pain is frequently associated with activity and relieved by rest.
Osteoarthritis (OA) also known as degenerative arthritis, degenerative joint disease, or osteoarthrosis, is a type of joint disease that results from breakdown of joint cartilage and underlying bone. (Redirected from Degenerative joint disease). Osteoarthritis (OA) also known as degenerative arthritis, degenerative joint disease, or osteoarthrosis, is a type of joint disease that results from breakdown of joint cartilage and underlying bone. The most common symptoms are joint pain and stiffness.
If you are one of the millions of Americans who suffer from hip pain caused by degenerative joint disease (DJD), there are treatment options available that can enable you to maintain an active lifestyle and quality of life. DJD is a common cause of hip pain that affects millions of Americans. This condition can result in a reduced quality of life and less active lifestyle. There are different types of DJD that may cause hip pain.