Exotic figures in Jules Migonney's Venus mauresque. Exoticism (from 'exotic') is a trend in European art and design, influenced by some ethnic groups or civilizations from the late 19th-century. First stimulated by Eastern trade in the 16th and 17th centuries, interest in non-western art by Europeans became more and more popular following European colonialism. As classicism progressed, Ingres identified a newfound idealism and exoticism in his work. The Grand Odalisque, finished in 1814, was created to arouse the male view. The notion of the exotic figure furthers Ingres’ use of symmetry and line by enabling the eye to cohesively move across the canvas.
Introduction. In much of the extensive literature on the subject, exoticism is considered a form of representation in which peoples, places, and cultural practices are depicted as foreign from the perspective of the composer and/or intended audience. 
The influences of Exoticism can be seen through numerous genres of this period, notably in music, painting, and decorative art. In music, exoticism is a genre in which the rhythms, melodies, or instrumentation are designed to evoke the atmosphere of far-off lands or ancient times. Like orientalist subjects in 19th century painting, exoticism in the decorative arts and interior decoration was associated with fantasies of opulence. Exoticism, by one definition, is the charm of the unfamiliar.. Scholar Alden Jones defines exoticism in art and literature as the representation of one culture for consumption by another. Victor Segalen's important Essay on Exoticism reveals a more complex and further-reaching definition
While exoticism is closely linked to Orientalism, it is not a movement necessarily associated with a particular time period or culture. Exoticism may take the form of primitivism, ethnocentrism, or humanism. As classicism progressed, Ingres identified a newfound idealism and exoticism in his work. The Grand Odalisque, finished in 1814, was created to arouse the male view. The notion of the exotic figure furthers Ingres’ use of symmetry and line by enabling the eye to cohesively move across the canvas.
Exoticism. Exoticism is a trend in art and design, influenced by some ethnic groups or civilizations from the late 19th-century. First stimulated by Eastern trade in the 16th and 17th centuries, interest in non-western art became more and more popular following European colonialism. Like orientalist subjects in 19th century painting, exoticism in the decorative arts and interior decoration was associated with fantasies of opulence. Exoticism, by one definition, is the charm of the unfamiliar.. Scholar Alden Jones defines exoticism in art and literature as the representation of one culture for consumption by another. Victor Segalen's important Essay on Exoticism reveals a more complex and further-reaching definition
Noun. 1. exoticism-the quality of being exotic; he loved the exoticism of Egypt. exoticness, exotism. foreignness, curiousness, strangeness-the quality of being alien or not native; the strangeness of a foreigner. Translations. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Exoticism (from 'exotic') is a trend in art and design, influenced by some ethnic groups or civilizations since the late 19th-century. 
Definition of EXOTICISM. : the quality or state of being exotic. 
Explore posts in the same categories: Uncategorized. In my last blog entry, I used the term “exoticism”. However, I did not fully identify what that means. I would like to here. Exoticism in translation refers to using words or phrases which sound “exotic” in the translated language, because they are of foreign origin. For instance, if I were translating the classic VW advertising text from the early 1990s, I might leave the German term for “the joy of driving” in German: “Fahrvergnuegen”. fahrvergnügen 