Hi Kir, Hummous is both starch and protein because of the beans. If you read a can of beans you will see they contain both carbs and vegetable protein. And the sesame seeds are seeds, containing fat and carbs, and are not nuts, technically. One of my favorite non-candida foods is this middle eastern rotissere chicken served with hummus and pita (I just don't eat the pita). It is extremely healthy and one of the few things I can eat. However, I have not been able to figure out if hummus is a starch or a protein
Hummus is a middle-eastern food composed of chickpeas, or  garbanzo beans, and Tahini, a paste similar in texture to peanut  butter that is made from sesame seeds. Hummus is … typically eaten  with pita or other flat bread.  To make hummus, no cooking is required -- just a food processor.  You can use hummus as a sandwich spread, as a veggie dip or on  crackers . + 25 others found this useful.
Thus, try replacing half the chickpeas in a hummus recipe with tofu to cut some carbs. You can also simply take a smaller amount of traditional hummus or eat it with protein-rich foods instead of the high-carb pita bread wedges and fresh vegetable sticks. Ingredients. Most varieties of hummus tend to be so low in carbohydrates, because their ingredients are primarily plant-based proteins. Ground chickpeas are the main ingredient in hummus, which is supplemented by sesame seed paste, lemon juice, garlic, salt, water and occasionally olive oil or a mixture of mild spices.
From the Starch content in hummus list, click on a link to give a full nutrition breakdown which includes calories, protein, fat and carbs as well as Starch. Each hummus item can be scaled by different amounts to adjust the amounts of Starch so that it is not just, for example, the values in 100g of. The item can be scaled by quantites in g, oz or typical serving sizes.
1 Fat Free Hummus Recipe Hummus is a dip made of chickpeas that was invented in the Middle East. 2  It is very tasty and packed with protein. 3  This makes it very convenient for vegetarians and vegans, an…. 4  Healthy Meals with Hummus Hummus is a very tasty food that is enjoyed by many around the globe. Hummus is … typically eaten  with pita or other flat bread.  To make hummus, no cooking is required -- just a food processor.  You can use hummus as a sandwich spread, as a veggie dip or on  crackers . + 25 others found this useful.
Homemade hummus, in contrast, has closer to 110 calories per 1/4 cup, 3 g protein, 12.5 g carbohydrates, 2.5 g fiber and 5 g fat, of which less than 1 g is saturated. Ingredients. Most varieties of hummus tend to be so low in carbohydrates, because their ingredients are primarily plant-based proteins. Ground chickpeas are the main ingredient in hummus, which is supplemented by sesame seed paste, lemon juice, garlic, salt, water and occasionally olive oil or a mixture of mild spices.
Hummus is high in protein and low in carbs. Photo Credit martiapunts/iStock/Getty Images. Creamy, savory hummus makes a tasty and low-calorie companion to pita bread, fresh vegetables and sandwiches. Ingredients. Most varieties of hummus tend to be so low in carbohydrates, because their ingredients are primarily plant-based proteins. Ground chickpeas are the main ingredient in hummus, which is supplemented by sesame seed paste, lemon juice, garlic, salt, water and occasionally olive oil or a mixture of mild spices.
Welcome to the Starch nutrition section for 0 types of hummus, each of which can be scaled by the amount in g, oz or typical portion sizes. Each hummus item can be scaled by different amounts to adjust the amounts of Starch so that it is not just, for example, the values in 100g of. The item can be scaled by quantites in g, oz or typical serving sizes.