The length of time that nicotine stays in the body and cotinine can be a reliable indicator of nicotine use depends on the amount of tobacco smoked, the number of years smoking tobacco, and the type of nicotine test performed. It can be as short as 2 days, or as long as 3 months. In these blood tests, nicotine is visible usually 1 to 3 days after last use of a nicotine-containing product, such as cigarettes, smokeless tobacco (snuff), and nicotine patches or gum. This may also vary in lieu of the amount of nicotine use, and the individual’s health and age
12-24 hours: Marijuana is detectable in the saliva test only for about 12 to 24 hrs. It can be detected in the urine much longer and up to 90 days in a hair follicle sample. Best wishes. 
Cotinine is detectable in blood for at least several days after exposure to tobacco smoke. Depending on how much you smoke, the level of cotinine in your blood will reflect a nonsmoker level in 7 to 10 days. The nicotine test that offers the longest detection window is a hair follicle nicotine test. These are rarely administered due to their expense, but they do exist. If the nicotine test is a urine test, you should be clean within 2-4 days of your last smoke. For heavy smokers, it might take a week (and possibly longer) for the cotinine traces to leave your urine or remain so small that they are undetectable.
Nicotine Drug Test. In order to know the fact as to how long nicotine stays in your system, you need to remember the duration of smoking and the number of cigarettes smoked per day. Usually nicotine persists in the body for 2-4 days but in some cases it may also last for a few months. However, in the case of passive smoking the nicotine remains in the body for a long time. The presence of nicotine is usually detected in the urine, blood, and hair follicle through medical tests. Effects of Nicotine on the Body. As one smokes or takes a snuff, the nicotine in the substance reaches the bloodstream or the brain within a very short span of 5-7 seconds.
Nicotine is usually detectable in a blood test for 1-3 days after the consumption of a tobacco product.* However, the length of time that nicotine stays in your system may vary based on how much or how often you smoke, and may also be affected by your age and general health. If this is the case, it can take 1-10 days. If you’re wondering how long nicotine stays in your blood, you may also be interested in how long it stays in your urine or saliva since these tests are also used to detect nicotine in the body.
Most of the nicotine will be excreted from the system within twenty minutes after smoking. Nonetheless, it can be detected in the saliva for approximately 24 hours after the last smoke. Its metabolite, cotinine, can be detected for as long as 4 to 7 days depending on the amount of nicotine consumed. For heavy smokers, it may be detected up to seven to fourteen days. You are beginning to see how challenging it is to adequately answer the question of How Long does Nicotine Stay In Your System. The length of time it takes for nicotine and its metabolites to stay detectable in urine depends on the user’s rate of metabolism, height, weight and the how much water is consumed in a day. On average, nicotine can be detected in the urine for as long as three days.
Blood Test. Testing for nicotine shows that nicotine is detectable for 1 to 3 days. It is common to test for cotinine instead of nicotine, as cotinine is detectable in the system for up to 10 days after nicotine has been removed from your system. When smoking only occasionally or you have a limited nicotine intake, the nicotine should be cleared out in 3 to 4 days. If you are a regular smoker, it may take 1-2 weeks; if you are a long time heavy smoker, it may take more than 20 days for a clean urinalysis test.
It can detect much lower levels of nicotine use than the urine test and can give an approximate nicotine consumption level. Cotinine might be detected thru a saliva test for up to 2-4 days after usage. – How long does nicotine stay in your system (hair tests). This is a reliable method to measure long-term nicotine use, but is an expensive method of testing. In some cases like passive smokers or menthol cigarette smokers, nicotine tests thru urine may turn positive for up to 20 days. – How long does nicotine stay in your system (saliva tests). This is the preferred method of testing being the most accurate method.
In a saliva test, which is the most accurate test, nicotine can be detected for more than 10 hours or up to 2-4 days.*. There are ways to effectively clear nicotine from your system, most of which include eating a healthy diet, drinking plenty of water, and getting exercise. If this is the case, it can take 1-10 days. If you’re wondering how long nicotine stays in your blood, you may also be interested in how long it stays in your urine or saliva since these tests are also used to detect nicotine in the body.