Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease where the immune system attacks the lining of some joints. This cause pain and swelling in those joints. The cause of rheumatoid arthritis is not completely understood. We know that it effects women more than men and that it is more common in people that smoke. 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease in which the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks the membranes that line the body’s joints. The result is inflammation and pain in the joints. RA is a chronic disease that can cause periods of intense activity called flare-ups. This may be why some people develop more than one autoimmune disease. The gene that researchers link specifically to RA is an immune system gene named HLA-DR4. This gene is found in about 30 percent of the general population. Among RA patients of European descent, 60 to 70 percent carry this gene.
Genes hold the key to understanding how the immune system becomes activated in people who have psoriasis and/or psoriatic arthritis. When a specific gene is found to be linked to psoriatic disease, researchers work to determine what the gene does under normal conditions. Next they try to determine how the gene is behaving differently in a person with psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis. This is a very difficult and time-consuming process, because researchers believe that more than one gene is responsible for causing psoriatic disease.
Rheumatoid arthritis probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, many of which are unknown. Rheumatoid arthritis is classified as an autoimmune disorder, one of a large group of conditions that occur when the immune system attacks the body's own tissues and organs. In people with rheumatoid arthritis, the immune system triggers abnormal inflammation in the membrane that lines the joints (the synovium). 
Although the term arthritis is applied to a wide variety of disorders, arthritis means inflammation of a joint, whether the result of a disease, an infection, a genetic defect, or some other cause. Understanding Arthritis. Symptoms. Diagnosis and Treatment. Arthritis inflammation causes pain, stiffness, and swelling in the joints and surrounding tissues. Many people mistakenly perceive arthritis as any kind of pain or discomfort associated with body movement, including low back pain, bursitis, tendinitis, and general stiffness or pain in the joints.
It is known that some people are more likely to have psoriasis than others, and this susceptibility may lie in the genes themselves. Scientists have now identified about 25 genetic variants that make a person more likely to develop psoriatic disease. Next they try to determine how the gene is behaving differently in a person with psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis. This is a very difficult and time-consuming process, because researchers believe that more than one gene is responsible for causing
Secondary osteoarthritis is caused by another disease or condition. Conditions that can lead to secondary osteoarthritis include obesity, repeated trauma or surgery to the joint structures, abnormal joints at birth (congenital abnormalities), gout, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, and other hormone disorders. 
The Major Types of Arthritis. Osteoarthritis, or degenerative joint disease, refers to the pain and swelling that can result from the progressive loss of cartilage in the joints. It is the most common form of arthritis, affecting nearly 27 million adults in the United States, particularly older adults. Symptoms. Diagnosis and Treatment. Arthritis inflammation causes pain, stiffness, and swelling in the joints and surrounding tissues. Many people mistakenly perceive arthritis as any kind of pain or discomfort associated with body movement, including low back pain, bursitis, tendinitis, and general stiffness or pain
In rheumatoid arthritis, they mainly attack the cells of the lining of certain joints, which gives rise to pain, swelling, redness and inflammation of joints. It is also observed that the disease is more common in women than in men, and also, smokers are more likely to get affected by it than non-smokers. The studies have shown that a genetic factor does play a role in the occurrence of rheumatoid arthritis. You and your doctor can discuss the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and you then can observe whether any of them are seen in your children. You can also learn more about the disease for its genetic involvement.