The French language (French: francais, français pronounced) frahnseh is A romance language that was first spoken In, France, Belgium, Luxembourg quebec And. Switzerland about 220 million people Speak french as a native or a second. language About 220 million people speak French as a native or a second language. It has also been one of the roots of other languages such as the Haitian Creole language. Like most Romance languages, its nouns have genders that are divided into masculine (masculin) and feminine (feminin) féminin. words
French, as it is spoken today by a vast Francophone population, began to become standardized with Charlemagne’s conquest of the Gauls and Franks in the 16th Century. The history of the modern French language in France emerged with the combination of Latin and Provencal. Provençal keep reading to learn. more The grammar of the French language spoken and written today is in its essentials unchanged from the late 17th century, when official efforts to standardize, stabilize, and clarify French grammatical usage were institutionalized in the French Academy.
France. French, the official language, is the first language of 88% of the population. Most of those who speak minority languages also speak French, as the minority languages are given no legal recognition. 3% of the population speak German dialects, predominantly in the eastern provinces of Alsace-Lorraine and Moselle. 
French is the sole official language in the province of Quebec, being the mother tongue for some 7 million people, or almost 80.1% (2006 Census) of the province. About 95.0% of the people of Quebec speak French as either their first or second language, and for some as their third language. French is a Romance language (meaning that it is descended primarily from Vulgar Latin) that evolved out of the Gallo-Romance dialects spoken in northern France. French replaced Latin as the most important language of diplomacy and international relations (lingua franca) in the 17th century.
The French language (French: francais, français pronounced) frahnseh is A romance language that was first spoken In, France, Belgium, Luxembourg quebec And. switzerland About 220 million people speak French as a native or a second language. It has also been one of the roots of other languages such as the Haitian Creole language. Like most Romance languages, its nouns have genders that are divided into masculine (masculin) and feminine (feminin) féminin. words
The languages of France include the French language and some regional languages. The French language is the only official language of France according to the second article of the French Constitution, and is by far the most widely spoken. At the time of the French revolution in 1789 it is estimated that only half of the population of France could speak any French, and as late as 1871 only a quarter spoke French as their native language.
French is used in Haiti as one of its official languages and as the language of higher education. The popular language spoken in Haiti is a so-called “creole” (a term derived from the Spanish word criolla denoting a person “born in the colonies”). The grammar of the French language spoken and written today is in its essentials unchanged from the late 17th century, when official efforts to standardize, stabilize, and clarify French grammatical usage were institutionalized in the French Academy.
French is a descendant of the Latin language of the Roman Empire, as are languages such as Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, Catalan and Romanian. Its development was also influenced by the native Celtic languages of Roman Gaul and by the Germanic language of the post-Roman Frankish invaders. French Language. French (francais, français [pronounced]) fʁɑ̃sɛ is today spoken around the world by 76 million people as a native, language and by about 280 million people as a second or third, language with significant speakers in 54. countries
French is the official language in 29 countries, most of which are members of la francophonie, the community of French-speaking countries. It is spoken as a first language in France, southern Belgium, western Switzerland, Monaco, certain parts of Canada and by various communities elsewhere. French is a Romance language (meaning that it is descended primarily from Vulgar Latin) that evolved out of the Gallo-Romance dialects spoken in northern France. French replaced Latin as the most important language of diplomacy and international relations (lingua franca) in the 17th century.