1 Reduce heat to medium low or low. 2  Cover the pan with a lid. 3  Cook the potatoes in gently boiling water until tender, about 15 minutes for cubed potatoes and new potatoes and 20 to 25 minutes for quartered potatoes. Boiling Potatoes. 1  Place the potatoes in a large saucepan or pot. 2  Add enough cold water to cover the tops of the potatoes. 3  Add 1/2 to 1 teaspoon salt to the water. 4  Turn the burner on high and bring water to boiling. 5 
1 Cover the pan with a lid. 2  Cook the potatoes in gently boiling water until tender, about 15 minutes for cubed potatoes and new potatoes and 20 to 25 minutes for quartered potatoes. 3  Drain the potatoes in a colander. Boiling Potatoes. 1  Place the potatoes in a large saucepan or pot. 2  Add enough cold water to cover the tops of the potatoes. 3  Add 1/2 to 1 teaspoon salt to the water. 4  Turn the burner on high and bring water to boiling. 5  Reduce heat to medium low or low.
1 Check the potatoes after 5 minutes: Cubed potatoes will cook more quickly than whole potatoes; smaller potatoes will cook more quickly than larger potatoes. 2  Begin checking the potatoes after around 5 minutes of boiling; most potatoes will be done in 10 to 20 minutes. Generally, you boil potatoes when you plan to mash them or toss them into a salad, though boiled potatoes can also make a quick side dish. Boiling also cooks potatoes very evenly all the way through and usually only takes
1 Put your potatoes, peeled or unpeeled, cut or whole, into a cooking pot and completely cover them with cold water. 2  Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 3  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 4  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 1 Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 2  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 3  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 4  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked
Put the potatoes, garlic, bay leaf, and peppercorns in a large saucepan, add cold water to cover by about an inch and season generously with salt,. Bring to a boil, lower the heat, and simmer until potatoes are fork tender, about 5 to 8 minutes depending on their size. 
Put the potatoes in a medium saucepan and cover with cold water by 2 inches. Salt the water generously. Bring to a boil over medium heat and cook the potatoes until tender, about 15 minutes. Drain and put the potatoes in a serving bowl. Drizzle with melted butter and sprinkle with parsley. Toss and serve.
1 Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 2  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 3  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked. 1 Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 2  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 3  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 4
Add cold water to the pan until the potatoes are covered by at least an inch. Add a half teaspoon of salt to the water. Turn the heat on to high, and bring the water to a boil. Reduce the heat to low to maintain a simmer, and cover. Cook for 15 to 20 minutes, or until you can easily poke through them with a fork. 2 While the potatoes are cooking, melt the butter and warm the cream.
A large pot full of potatoes (4-quart size or so), should boil potatoes to a ready-to-eat tenderness in about 25 minutes. You will want to check the potatoes every 5 minutes or so after the first 15 minutes to see if they are fork-tender.. 1 Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 2  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 3  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 4  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked