Pampas grass generally forms in clumps that reach 6 to 10 feet tall and 5 or 6 feet wide. Some varieties are invasive in California, but in most places they’re usually well-behaved. Pampas grass grows best in full sun. Plant it in an area that gets a minimum of 6 hours of sunlight daily. 
How to Grow Pampas Grass. Before growing pampas grass, be sure to put it somewhere in the landscape where it has plenty of room to grow, especially when planting more than one. When mass planting pampas grass, you’ll have to space them about 6 to 8 feet apart. Pampas grass enjoys areas with full sun but will tolerate partial shade. It also tolerates a wide range of soil types but prefers moist, well-draining soil. Another plus side to growing pampas grass is its tolerance of drought, wind, and salt sprays—which is why you commonly see the plant along coastal regions. Advertisement. The grass is hardy in USDA zones 7-11, but in well protected areas, it can also be grown in Zone 6.
PINK FEATHER Pampas Grass Seeds. An incredibly fast growing showy ornamental grass which can grow up to 12 feet or more tall. By its third year it will produce an amazing amount of 2-3 foot creamy pink plumes in late summer and fall. They make superb cut flowers. Easy to grow. An incredibly fast growing showy ornamental grass that can grow to 12 feet or more tall. By its third year it produces an amazing amount of 2-3 foot white plumes that are excellent for cutting for fresh or dried arrangements.
Pink pampas grass is an ornamental grass with an upright, fountain-like appearance. This grass is perennial in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 5 to 11. Pink pampas grass reaches 8 to 10 feet in height and width. The large pink feathery plumes on the female pampas plants can reach 20 feet tall in the summer and fall. Work the soil with a shovel in an area that is partially in the shade. Dig a hole as deep as the pampas grass root ball and place the plant in the soil. Firm the soil around the plant and water well. Plant other pink pampas grass 36 to 60 inches apart.
PINK FEATHER Pampas Grass Seeds Cortaderia selloana. An incredibly fast growing, showy ornamental grass. Grows to 12 feet or more tall. By its third season, produces amazing amounts of 2-3 foot, creamy pink plumes in late summer and fall. WHITE FEATHER Pampas Grass Seeds Cortaderia selloana. Incredibly fast growing, to 12 feet or more tall. By its third year produces amazing quantities of 2-3 foot, white plumes, superb for fresh or dried arrangements. An easy to grow, summer and fall blooming perennial.
8. Transplant the pink pampas grass outdoors when plants reach a height of 3 to 4 inches. Plant the grass in holes twice the diameter of the original container, or 8 inches in diameter, and the same height as the pots. Space each plant 8 feet apart to allow the pink pampas to reach maturity. Select a site with full to partial sunlight. Pink pampas grass seeds require loose, well-drained, moist soil for germination. Plant the seeds indoors four to six weeks before the last killing frost in spring.
3. Dig a hole with a shovel for planting the pampas grass in the late spring. 1  The hole should be around 15 inches (38 cm) deep and about 17 inches (43 cm) wide for planting a gallon container of pampas grass. 2  Place holes at least 6 feet (1.8 m) apart if planting multiple clumps of pampas grass. 3  4 Edit step. 
WHITE FEATHER Pampas Grass Seeds. An incredibly fast growing showy ornamental grass that can grow to 12 feet or more tall. By its third year it produces an amazing amount of 2-3 foot white plumes that are excellent for cutting for fresh or dried arrangements. Easy to grow
Since it can grow 6 to 10 feet tall, each tussock or clump should be given plenty of space between it and other plantings. The leaves are gray or bluish-green with narrowly tapering tips and sharp, serrated edges. Pampas grass can be used as an ornamental plant in a garden or lawn or used as a hedge due to its size. Large, flowering stalks range in color from white, yellow and pink. They grow from the base of the tussock and can reach 12 feet in height. During its lifespan, each plant can produce more than 1 million seeds. Pampas grass is banned in California and Hawaii, where it is listed as an invasive weed. 