Best Answer: Signs and symptoms of strep throat usually appear within five days of being exposed to the bacteria that causes strep throat. However, it may be difficult to know whether a person is infected since some people are carriers – they carry the bacteria, yet never display any symptoms of infection themselves.
Strep throat can be passed from person to person. When a person who has strep throat breathes, coughs, or sneezes, tiny droplets with the strep bacteria go into the air. These droplets can be breathed in by other people. If you come into contact with strep, it will take 2 to 5 days before you start to have symptoms. Your doctor will do a physical exam, ask you about your symptoms and past health, and do a lab test such as a throat culture or rapid strep test. A rapid test gives a result within about 10 minutes. But sometimes the test doesn't show strep even when it is present. A culture takes one or two days but is better at finding all cases of strep. If the rapid strep test is positive and says that you do have strep, there's no need to do the throat culture.
The most common symptoms of strep are sudden, severe throat pain, pain when swallowing, a fever above 101F or 38.3C, swelling in your tonsils and lymph nodes, and a bright red throat with white or yellow spots in the back.
The symptoms of strep generally start to appear within two to five days of exposure to the bacteria. As it's caused by bacteria, strep throat is contagious. On top of that, you just don't have to kissing or sharing dishes with someone infected.
When strep throat symptoms recur in a child, it may indicate an untreated bacterial infection or recurring contact with a carrier (e.g., at home, school, in daycare settings). Take a look at the information below which includes a list of questions to ask your doctor! http://pediatric.health.ivillage.com/ped...
Symptoms of strep throat usually begin within 2 to 5 days after you come in contact with someone who has a strep infection. Strep throat usually goes away in 3 to 7 days with or without antibiotic treatment.