Diffference between Nickel Strike plate and Typical Nickel plating. I am trying to explain the difference between a Nickel Strike plating and a typical Nickel plating. Hi there: Nickel strike: Higher content of chloride, is going to be used for direct plating of steel if cyanide copper is not requested. Content usually: Nickel chloride, HCl. Watt's Nickel: Is going to be used for decorative reasons. The purpose is to activate (I hate that word) or remove the oxide from the substrate and lay down a thin film of very active ready-to-plate nickel. The hydrogen ion helps reduce the tenacious oxides of stainless steel or old nickel electroplate from the surface. Secondly, the strike acts as a sewer.
The same is true for the Watts formulation used for engineering. Strongly acidic nickel strike solutions that are used for preparation of stainless steel, titanium and other metals and alloys that require a severe activation process are sensitive to certain impurities.
Woods Nickel or Chloride Nickel Plating is a pure nickel plate. It is used as a thin coating or strike to provide good adhesion to Stainless Steel or to apply additional plating to a Nickel base. This plate allows subsequent plating of Stainless Steel with a wide variety of metal coatings.
Technology developed to address this problem of short bath life used an alkaline nickel strike after zincating and prior to the regular plating bath. Drawbacks to that approach include extra tanks, process steps, and control over an additional plating bath. Failures have also been seen with nickel-to-nickel bonding. 
S.M. A. The interesting thing about the Wood’s nickel process is that there probably is not a typical processing sequence. If you talk to five platers you probably we will come away with 10 different ways of performing the Wood’s nickel step. Here is one such process sequence: 1. Soak clean. 2. 
Without the strike or zincate you would get poor or little adhesion of the nickel to the aluminum. ADD a Q or A to THIS thread START a NEW THREAD View This Week's HOT TOPICS. Disclaimer: It is not possible to diagnose a finishing problem or the hazards of an operation via these pages. Yes utilizing an electroless nickel strike over zincate prior to electroless nickel eliminates the copper CYANIDE strike and water rinse following. The strike bath generally operates at about 90 degrees F, pH is about 9.5-10.0 if I recall. No problem with adhesion.
Most everybody will tell you that the Wood’s nickel strike is an easy-to-use bath. It is, but it does require some level of maintenance. This is where the problems come in. Such things as concentration of nickel, the ratio of nickel to chloride, temperature and time in the bath all can cause difficulties. CLICK IMAGE TO ENLARGE (+). A typical Wood's Strike bath formulation. Q. Everybody talks about the Wood’s nickel strike prior to plating of materials like stainless steel or other hard to plate substrates. Our plating shop uses Wood’s nickel for such purposes.