Caddyshack director and co-writer Harold Ramis was also a co-writer of the 1978 National Lampoon comedy classic Animal House, along with eventual Caddyshack co-writer and producer Douglas Kenney. Held to only a $3 million budget, their film of frat-house shenanigans went on to gross $141 million at the box office.
Caddyshack was written by Brian Doyle-Murray. In Cinderella Story: My Life in Golf, Bill, his brother, writes The film is the gripping tale of the Murray brothers' first experiments with employment ... [Brian] wrote the events of his and my brother Ed's caddie life in a way that showed he'd paid attention..
The scene in the opening credits where Danny Noonan rides his bicycle across a street with train tracks was filmed at the intersection of Mission Street and Meridian Avenue in South Pasadena, California. The train tracks are still there, but now serve the light rail line running from downtown L.A. to Pasadena.
Caddyshack Filming Locations. Greenskeeper Carl Spackler (Bill Murray) is about to start World War III against a gopher. Pompous Judge Smails (Ted Knight) plays to win, but his nubile niece, Lacey Underall (Cindy Morgan) wants to score her own way. Playboy Ty Webb (Chevy Chase) shoots perfect golf by becoming the ball.
It wasn't during the filming of Caddyshack but during Saturday Night Live. Murray started on Saturday Night Live in the fall of 1977. Chevy Chase had left the show at the end of the 1977 season and his movie Foul Play was due to be released in mid 1978. The fight took place February 18, 1978.
Caddyshack is a 1980 American sports comedy film directed by Harold Ramis and written by Brian Doyle-Murray, Ramis and Douglas Kenney. It stars Michael O'Keefe, Chevy Chase, Rodney Dangerfield, Ted Knight, and Bill Murray.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -- Despite sporadic fall showers and the muggy Florida sun, President Barack Obama hit the greens Saturday with a former NBA star at the ritzy golf club where Caddyshack was filmed.
Thirty-four years after the filming of Caddyshack, the AV Club went to see the country club where it was shot. Although the story was set in the midwest, the location was the Rolling Hills Golf Course near Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.
Caddyshack was filmed on location at the Boca Raton Hotel & Country Club, Boca Raton and The Rolling Hills Golf & Tennis Club, Davie, Florida, USA. The gates to the country club where Danny rides his bike during the opening credits are the gates to Bel Air on Sunset Blvd. in Southern California.