Both orangutan species are considered to be Endangered, with the Sumatran orangutan being Critically Endangered. Human activities have caused severe declines in the populations and ranges of both species. Threats to wild orangutan populations include poaching, habitat destruction, and the illegal pet trade. The two orangutan species are the only extant members of the subfamily Ponginae. This subfamily also included the extinct genera Lufengpithecus, which lived in southern China and Thailand 2–8 mya, and Sivapithecus, which lived India and Pakistan from 12.5 mya until 8.5 mya.
The name orangutan (also written orang-utan, orang utan, orangutang, and ourang-outang) is derived from the Malay and Indonesian words orang meaning person and hutan meaning forest, thus person of the forest. Orang Hutan was originally not used to refer to apes, but to forest-dwelling humans. The two orangutan species are the only extant members of the subfamily Ponginae. This subfamily also included the extinct genera Lufengpithecus, which lived in southern China and Thailand 2–8 mya, and Sivapithecus, which lived India and Pakistan from 12.5 mya until 8.5 mya.
Habitat. Orangutans are found in Indonesia on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo. These apes were once widespread throughout mainland Asia during the Pleistocene (3). Orangutans prefer a habitat that exists along waterways and in lowlands because of their high dependence on fruit. Orangutans are found in Indonesia on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo. These apes were once widespread throughout mainland Asia during the Pleistocene (3)
P. albelii or P. pygmaeus. Orangutans are classified in the domain Eukarya because their cells contain a nucleus and membrane bound organelles, and they are multicellular organisms. In contrast, Prokaryotes are unicellular organisms (such as bacteria) that do not contain a cell nucleus or membrane bound organelles. They belong to the kingdom Animalia because Orangutans are Heterotrophs that ingest food into an internal cavity.
Orangutan Evolution. The similarities between orangutans and humans, and the closeness of our evolutionary history, is often cited as a primary reason for the importance of orangutan conservation initiatives, but what this actually means, and just how closely related we are to Asia’s only great ape, is often confusing. 
As mentioned, Hominidae was originally the name given to the family of humans and their (extinct) close relatives, with the other great apes (that is, the orangutans, gorillas, and chimpanzees) all being placed in a separate family, the Pongidae. Within the taxon Hominidae, a number of extant and known extinct, that is, fossil, genera are grouped with the humans, chimpanzees, and gorillas in the subfamily Homininae; others with orangutans in the subfamily Ponginae (see classification graphic below).
The orangutans (also spelled orang-utan, orangutang, or orang-utang) are the two exclusively Asian species of extant great apes. Native to Indonesia and Malaysia, orangutans are currently found in only the rainforests of Borneo and Sumatra. The two orangutan species are the only extant members of the subfamily Ponginae. This subfamily also included the extinct genera Lufengpithecus, which lived in southern China and Thailand 2–8 mya, and Sivapithecus, which lived India and Pakistan from 12.5 mya until 8.5 mya.
An orangutan is a member of the ape family with reddish brown hair. They live in parts of Borneo and Sumatra. The name orangutan is derived from the Malay word meaning person … of the forest. They very rarely leave the tree tops and feed on fruit and other food sources found in the top of the trees like young birds and small animals making them omnivor. They are part of the primate family. They are one of the great apes which include also chimpanzees, gorillas and humans. some of them are endangered because people are destroy … ing their habitat.
Orangutans are classified in the domain Eukarya because their cells contain a nucleus and membrane bound organelles, and they are multicellular organisms. In contrast, Prokaryotes are unicellular organisms (such as bacteria) that do not contain a cell nucleus or membrane bound organelles. They belong to the kingdom Animalia because Orangutans are Heterotrophs that ingest food into an internal cavity.