Photo Credit EpicStockMedia/iStock/Getty Images. Sore, fatigued and achy muscles are most often caused by exercising too hard, and generally feel better with time. But if you haven't exercised recently, sore muscles could be an indicator of an illness or other health condition. See your doctor if you experience muscle soreness with no apparent cause, or pain lasting more than 3 days.
1 Clenching and Tension The primary way that anxiety causes sore muscles is that it leads to significant muscle tension. 2  During periods of anxiety, your body prepares for fight or flight mode as though you're in a dangerous situation. 3  When doing so, it tenses your muscles for rapid action. 
When most people discuss the upper body, however -- especially the muscles of the upper body -- they are referring to the muscles on the front of the chest, shoulders, upper back, neck and arms. Upper body muscle strains -- partial tearing of upper body muscle fibers -- are another common cause of upper body muscle soreness, especially among athletes. Muscle contusions or bruises, muscle cramps or charley horses, and fibromyalgia can all cause upper body muscle pain, states the MedlinePlus website.
If it's more pain in the muscles you have than pain in your actual joints, you may have fibromyalgia. If it's more so your joints hurting, you notice a change in the colour of your fingers in the cold (turning sort of a purplish colour) , and get rashes or some sort of skin sensitivity to the sun you may have lupus. 
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. It's more often the result of an infection, an illness or a side effect of a medication. Common causes of muscle pain include: 1  Chronic exertional compartment syndrome. 2  Chronic fatigue syndrome.
If your muscle pain is caused by tension or physical activity, take these measures to lower your risk of developing muscle pain in the future: 1  Stretch your muscles before engaging in physical activity and after workouts. 2  Incorporate a warm-up and a cool-down into all of your exercise sessions. Muscle aches are not always harmless, and in some instances, home treatment is not enough. Myalgia can also be a sign that something is seriously wrong in your body. You should see your doctor for: 1  pain that does not go away after a few days of home treatment.
If you’re a nut for that post-exercise throb, here's some good news: according to new review in the Strength and Conditioning Journal, sore muscles are often a sign of muscle damage caused from exercise, and as the body heals that damage, it adds more protein and strengthens the muscles against future wear and tear. 
Upper Body Muscle Pain. Numerous conditions can cause upper body muscle pain. Numerous conditions can cause upper body muscle pain. According to MayoClinic.com, sore, aching muscles are one of the most common health complaints. Upper body muscle strains -- partial tearing of upper body muscle fibers -- are another common cause of upper body muscle soreness, especially among athletes. Muscle contusions or bruises, muscle cramps or charley horses, and fibromyalgia can all cause upper body muscle pain, states the MedlinePlus website.
Guest. I have noticed that my muscles are sore to the touch. When I touch my arm or leg (just my upper leg though) it hurts a bit, like my muscle is sore. It's also that way with my upper back, just right under my neck across my back. I just noticed this today. 
Fibromyalgia is a syndrome characterized by pain throughout the body and sore muscles, joints and other tissues. Fibromyalgia may also cause mental health issues such as anxiety and depression, in addition to headaches and insomnia. This condition typically causes muscle soreness in the back and neck. But if you haven't exercised recently, sore muscles could be an indicator of an illness or other health condition. See your doctor if you experience muscle soreness with no apparent cause, or pain lasting more than 3 days.