Capillaries are tiny blood vessels connecting the small arteries (arterioles) to the small veins (venules). The blood vessels carry oxygen and nutrients to all the individual cells in the body. Capillaries are the blood vessels that lead from the arterioles to the individual cells, and from the cells back to the venules. Capillaries have very thin walls with holes in them, so fluid and small molecules like sugar and waste can move in and out.
Capillaries: Capillaries are the smallest of blood vessels. They serve to distribute oxygenated blood from arteries to the tissues of the body and to feed deoxygenated blood from the tissues back into the veins. 
Capillaries Tiny blood vessels connecting arteries to veins. These  blood vessels carry oxygen and nutrients to individual cells.  Capillaries are the smallest blood vessels … in the body, and have  walls only one or two cells thick. Capillaries are the blood vessels that lead from the arterioles to the individual cells, and from the cells back to the venules. Capillaries have very thin walls with holes in them, so fluid and small molecules like sugar and waste can move in and out.
Capillaries are tiny blood vessels connecting the small arteries  (arterioles) to the small veins (venules). The blood vessels carry  oxygen and nutrients to all the individ … ual cells in the body. When blood cells enter the capillaries, the oxygen and nutrients which are stored in hemoglobin in the blood diffuse into the body. The exhausted blood cells then enter back into larger vessels to join the bloodstream once again. The cycle goes something like this: Many people confuse veins with arteries.
Capillaries are tiny blood vessels which allow only very few blood cells to get through at a time. When blood cells enter the capillaries, the oxygen and nutrients which are stored in hemoglobin in the blood diffuse into the body. The exhausted blood cells then enter back into larger vessels to join the bloodstream once again. The cycle goes something like this: Many people confuse veins with arteries.
Arteries carry blood to the tissues, and veins carry blood back to the heart. In betweenare tiny blood vessels so small that red blood cells can pass through single file, allo … wingthe oxygen to diffuse into the surrounding tissue. These are called capillaries. 1 person found this useful. When blood cells enter the capillaries, the oxygen and nutrients which are stored in hemoglobin in the blood diffuse into the body. The exhausted blood cells then enter back into larger vessels to join the bloodstream once again. The cycle goes something like this: Many people confuse veins with arteries.
Arteries carry blood to the tissues, and veins carry blood back to the heart. In betweenare tiny blood vessels so small that red blood cells can pass through single file, allo … wingthe oxygen to diffuse into the surrounding tissue. These are called capillaries. Capillaries are the blood vessels that lead from the arterioles to the individual cells, and from the cells back to the venules. Capillaries have very thin walls with holes in them, so fluid and small molecules like sugar and waste can move in and out.