Socially-Necessary vs. Medically-Necessary Treatment. Posted: 12/20/2013 5:09 pm EST Updated: 02/19/2014 5:59 am EST. Every day I am asked by many of the parents I meet whether or not their child needs braces. Many of these parents are seeking a simple and straightforward answer of yes or no. 
Medical Necessity. Beyond the screening and preventive health services covered under EPSDT, the Medicaid benefit for children and adolescents, diagnostic and treatment services are also covered to correct or ameliorate a child’s physical or mental condition(s). 
Applying the rules. The best way to stay within the bounds of medical necessity is to think of each element of the history and physical exam as a separate procedure that should be performed only if there is a clear medical reason to do so. Medical decision making and medical necessity. To ensure that the level of care you select matches the intrinsic medical necessity of the encounter, let the key component of medical decision making be your guide.
Medical Necessity Law & Legal Definition. Medical necessity is a legal concept which refers to the health care services or products provided by a physician to a patient. 
Part B covers 2 types of services. 1  Medically necessary services: Services or supplies that are needed to diagnose or treat your medical condition and that meet accepted standards of medical practice. 
Medically necessary, criteria. A. Appropriate for the symptoms and diagnosis or treatment of a condition, illness or injury. B. Provides for the diagnosis or direct care and treatment of the condition, illness or injury. C. In accordance with the standards of good medical practice in the service area. medically necessary. Managed care adjective Referring to a covered service or treatment that is absolutely necessary to protect and enhance the health status of a Pt, and could adversely affect the Pt's condition if omitted, in accordance with accepted standards of medical practice. See Futility.
medically necessary care, n the reasonable and appropriate diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up care (including supplies, appliances, and devices) as determined and prescribed by qualified appropriate health care providers in treating any condition, illness, disease, injury, or birth de-velopmental malformation. 
Services that are not considered medically necessary. Services that aren’t deemed medically necessary are not covered by Original Medicare, Part A and Part B. It’s possible that some of these services may be covered by a Medicare Advantage plan, but that depends on your specific plan benefits. 