Fluid in the filtrate entering the proximal convoluted tubule is reabsorbed into the peritubular capillaries. This is driven by sodium transport from the lumen into the blood by the Na+/K+ ATPase in the basolateral membrane of the epithelial cells. Sodium reabsorption is primarily driven by this P-type ATPase. The proximal tubule as a part of the nephron can be divided into two sections, pars convoluta and pars recta. Differences in cell outlines exist between these segments, and therefore presumably in function too.
The distal convoluted tubule has a different structure and function to that of the proximal convoluted tubule. Cells lining the tubule have numerous mitochondria to produce enough energy (ATP) for active transport to take place. 
Definition of PROXIMAL CONVOLUTED TUBULE. : the convoluted portion of the vertebrate nephron that lies between Bowman's capsule and the loop of Henle and functions especially in the resorption of sugar, sodium and chloride ions, and water from the glomerular filtrate —called also proximal tubule. ADVERTISEMENT.
The proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) is a small tubular structure within the nephron of the kidney. The PCT connects Bowman's capsule with the proximal straight tubule, and it is essential for the reabsorption of water and solutes from filtrate within the nephron. Glomerular filtrate that has not been reabsorbed passes from the proximal convoluted tubule into the proximal straight tubule and into the loop of Henle and the distal convoluted tubule.
This is the most important transport mechanism in the PCT. The proximal tubule is the portion of the duct system of the nephron leading from Bowman's capsule to the loop of Henle. Structure and appearance The most distinctive characteristic of the proximal tubule is its brush border (or striated border). The luminal surface of the epithelial cells of this segment of the nephron is covered with densely packed microvilli forming a border readily visible under the light microscope.
Proximal Convoluted Tube is-Fluid in the filtrate entering the proximal convoluted tubule is reabsorbed into the peritubular capillaries. This is driven by sodium transport from the lumen into the blood by the Na+/K+ ATPase in the basolateral membrane of the epithelial cells. Structure and appearance The most distinctive characteristic of the proximal tubule is its brush border (or striated border). The luminal surface of the epithelial cells of this segment of the nephron is covered with densely packed microvilli forming a border readily visible under the light microscope.
The proximal tubule is the portion of the duct system of the nephron of the kidney which leads from Bowman's capsule to the loop of Henle. The proximal tubule as a part of the nephron can be divided into two sections, pars convoluta and pars recta. Differences in cell outlines exist between these segments, and therefore presumably in function too.
You can remember which part of the loop of Henle is important in the reabsorption of water really easily. Recall that the proximal tubule reabsorbs the majority of water, and the first structure of the loop of Henle to connect to the proximal tubule is the thin descending limb. Ultrafiltrate flows through the first part of the renal tubule, called the proximal convoluted tubule, which is a section of the renal tubule mainly located in the kidney's cortex that is responsible for the reabsorption of the majority of ultrafiltrate.
Each nephron consists of the renal corpuscle, the proximal convoluted tubule, the loop of Henle and the distal convoluted tubule. As blood flows through the capillaries in the renal corpuscle, about 20 percent of the plasma water is secreted into Bowman's capsule. Glomerular filtrate that has not been reabsorbed passes from the proximal convoluted tubule into the proximal straight tubule and into
Proximal Convoluted Tubule (PCT). This is the first part of the renal tubule and it lies in the cortex of the kidney, close to the renal corpusle. Fluid that is filtered from the Bowman’s Capsule enters into the proximal tubule. 