Fructose is a sugar found naturally in fruits, fruit juices, some vegetables and honey. Fructose is also a basic component in table sugar (sucrose), and high-fructose corn syrup is used to sweeten many processed foods and beverages.
The high-fructose fruits you should avoid include apples, cherries, mangoes, watermelon and pears. You can safely have moderate amounts of low-fructose fruits, such as honeydew melon, cantaloupe, bananas, blueberries, strawberries and oranges, if they are well spaced throughout the day.
All other vegetables have a very low fructose content. However, if you are sensitive to fructose, it is possible that you also react to other similar short-chain carbohydrates, such as fructans, polyols and galactans, found in other vegetables, such as cabbage, onions, garlic, broccoli and cauliflower.
Many foods containing fructose are otherwise healthy and nutritious, such as fruits and some vegetables. High-fructose foods include banana, blackberry, cherry, fig, kiwi, mandarin, mango, star fruit, rockmelon, grapefruit, pineapple and raspberries.
1 Most tree fruits contain high levels of fructose. 2  These fruits include bananas, apples, citrus fruits as well as grapes. 3  Pears also have high fructose levels. 4  Pears can be obtained in syrup, canned, bottled or in its natural form.
Fruits. 1  Most tree fruits contain high levels of fructose. 2  These fruits include bananas, apples, citrus fruits as well as grapes. 3  Pears also have high fructose levels. 4  Pears can be obtained in syrup, canned, bottled or in its natural form.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2013. Foods high in fructose and fructans include many fruits, berries, honey, some vegetables and cereal products. In some countries fructose is commonly used as a sweetener in snacks and soft drinks, e.g. in the form of high fructose corn syrup (HFCS).
People who have fructose intolerance should limit high-fructose foods, such as juices, apples, grapes, watermelon, asparagus, peas and zucchini. Some lower fructose foods — such as bananas, blueberries, strawberries, carrots, avocados, green beans and lettuce — may be tolerated in limited quantities with meals.
Avoid sweeteners that are rich in fructose, especially honey, high-fructose corn syrup and agave syrup. If you want to add a sweet touch to your diet, use lower-fructose alternatives, such as maple syrup, brown sugar, granulated sugar, stevia or artificial sweeteners, to keep your intestines happy.