Many milk products are high in phenylalanine. Cheese and milk, in particular, contain over 1,000 mg/serving. Cream and cream cheese, which are higher in fat and lower in protein, contain lesser amounts, but still in excess of 100mg. This includes cod, crab, lobsters, mussels, oysters, tuna, salmon and sardines. Meat, being a high-protein food, is also high in phenylalanine, in many cases containing more phenylalanine per serving than fish. Bacon, beef, turkey, liver, chicken and gelatin all contain over 1 gram of phenylalanine per 3 ounce serving.
Food Sources of Phenylalanine. Protein rich foods like beef, poultry, pork, fish, milk, yogurt, eggs, cheese, soy products, and certain nuts and seeds contain appreciable amounts of phenylalanine. Artificial sweetener aspartame also contains high amount of the amino acid. Top 10 Food Containing Phenylalanine. 1 Cottage Cheese: Dry cottage cheese contains 2300 mg of phenylalanine per cup, and the creamed product contains 1647mg/cup. 2  Roasted Peanuts: Roasted peanuts without skin contain 3500 mg of phenylalanine per cup. 3  Sesame Seeds: Sesame is a phenylalanine rich food (3000 mg/cup), and can be incorporated in many recipes.
Foods that are derived from animals are typically rich in protein. Because phenylalanine is an amino acid, foods that are high in protein often contain significant amounts of phenylalanine. Nuts and Legumes. Nuts and legumes, such as peanuts, are also high in protein. Consequently, foods such as walnuts, peanuts, peanut butter, hazel nuts and Brazil nuts contain relatively high quantities of phenylalanine. The protein found in soy also contains phenylalanine. Phenylalanine can be found in soybean flour, soy flour isolate and tofu. Other legumes -- including black beans, kidney beans and chickpeas -- are all high in protein and boost your phenylalanine intak
Dietary Sources. L-phenylalanine is found in most foods that contain protein such as beef, poultry, pork, fish, milk, yogurt, eggs, cheese, soy products (including soy protein isolate, soybean flour, and tofu), and certain nuts and seeds. The artificial sweetener aspartame is also high in phenylalanine. Phenylalanine is an essential amino acid (a building block for proteins in the body), meaning the body needs it for health but cannot make it. You have to get it from food.
Since our bodies cannot manufacture phenylalanine, we must obtain it in food. Phenylalanine is found in most foods that contain protein and also in the artificial sweetener aspartame. The recommended dosage roughly 1,000 mg for the average adult. Deficiencies are uncommon. This includes cod, crab, lobsters, mussels, oysters, tuna, salmon and sardines. Meat, being a high-protein food, is also high in phenylalanine, in many cases containing more phenylalanine per serving than fish. Bacon, beef, turkey, liver, chicken and gelatin all contain over 1 gram of phenylalanine per 3 ounce serving.
1 A lifetime diet with very limited intake of protein, because foods with protein contain phenylalanine. 2  Taking a PKU formula — a special nutritional supplement — for life to make sure you get enough essential protein (without phenylalanine) and nutrients that are crucial for growth and general health. 
Foods that contain large amounts of phe must be eliminated from a low phe diet. These foods are high protein foods, such as milk, dairy products, meat, fish, chicken, eggs, beans, and nuts. These foods cause high blood phe levels for people with PKU. However, if these foods were the only foods a person consumed, his or her diet would be lacking protein, vitamins, and minerals. That is where the special formula comes in. A special phenylalanine-free formula, such as Phenyl-Free*, contains protein, vitamins, minerals and energy (calories) with no phenylalanine. With formula, a person with PKU gets plenty of protein, without the side effects of the high phe content of most foods