Carbs usually considered good are complex carbs, such as whole grains, fruits, vegetables, beans and legumes. These are not only processed more slowly, but they also contain a bounty of other nutrients. 
Carbohydrates include sugar, starch and fiber. Sugar and starch provide glucose, which is the source of energy the body prefers. It’s also the only form of fuel used by your brain. Complex carbohydrates, such as beans, vegetables and fruits, are healthy carbohydrate sources because they combine starches with fiber. 
Like grains, nuts, seeds and legumes are very high in complex carbohydrates. These foods also contain protein, healthy fats like omega-3 fatty acids, and a range of vitamins and minerals. They’re high in fiber to aid digestion and help maintain a healthy weight. Whole grains are an excellent source of complex carbohydrates and dietary fiber. While all grains contain high levels of complex carbs, whole grains also provide large amounts of fiber. Some grains that contain high levels of complex carbohydrates include: 1  Rice. 2  Corn. 3  Wheat. 4  Barley. 5  Spelt. 6  Oats.
Maltose: glucose and glucose. Again, sucrose is just table sugar, and it occurs naturally in several fruits, grains and vegetables. Lactose is also a natural sugar, and it can be found in milk and other dairy products. Maltose forms naturally when starches break down from complex carbohydrates into simple sugars. 
You can find abundant complex carbohydrates in whole grain breadsand cereals, brown rice, whole wheatpasta, beans, and vegetables. Becausethe sugar in whole fruit is combinedwith fiber and the sugar in milk iscombined with protein, these simplec a r b o h ydrates are also considere dm o re complex in nature. 
Carbohydrates provide fuel for your body in the form of glucose or sugar. There are two types of carbohydrates -- simple and complex. Simple carbohydrates are sugars, such as the ones found in candy, fruits and baked goods. Complex carbohydrates are starches found in beans, nuts, vegetables and whole grains. Two-thirds of Americans are either obese or overweight. We have an epidemic on our hands!
On the other hand, complex carbohydrates are fibrous and starchy and are found in foods like legumes, starchy vegetables, and whole grains. Complex carbs release glucose more slowly into the bloodstream, offering a steadier source of energy to keep blood sugar levels stable and pesky hunger pangs away. 
Sources of complex carbohydrates include include beans, lentils, starchy vegetables and whole grains, such as cereal or whole-wheat or multi-grain bread. Eat whole grains as part of a balanced diet along with other carbohydrates, healthy fats and lean proteins. Whole Grains. All grains are sources of complex carbohydrates, but whole grains are especially healthy sources because they include heart-healthy nutrients such as selenium, potassium and magnesium. At least half of your grains should come from whole grain source
Oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, potatoes, beans, peas and lentils are examples of complex carbs. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice and baked goods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. Starchy Vegetables. Sweet Potato. Wheat. Wheat Berries. Whole-Grain (breads, cereals and flours). Remember, fruits and vegetables are simple carbohydrates that contain fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals, so they are more complex in nature. These are nutrient-dense foods that should be eaten daily.