The agreed definition is the following: “Cancer cachexia is a multifactorial syndrome defined by an ongoing loss of skeletal muscle mass (with or without loss of fat mass) that cannot be fully reversed by conventional nutritional support and leads to progressive functional impairment”. [Fearon, Lancet Oncol 2011].
Oncology A complex, multifactorial syndrome characterized by anorexia and/or unintended loss of appetite, accompanied by generalized host tissue wasting, skeletal muscle atrophy, immune dysfunction, and metabolic derangements. See Cachexia, Malnutrition.
is the complex, multi-symptom syndrome seen in late-stage cancer patients, characterized by anorexia and unintended loss of appetite, progressive and continual weight loss, accompanied by generalized host tissue wasting, skeletal muscle atrophy, immune and metabolic dysfunction, and a greatly diminished quality of life.
Many patients with advanced cancer undergo a wasting syndrome characterized by anorexia, loss of weight, asthenia, and a poor prognosis, referred to as the cancer anorexia/cachexia syndrome. In defining these terms further, anorexia describes loss of appetite and/or an aversion to food.
The European Palliative Care Research Collaborative (EPCRC) defines cancer-related cachexia thus: A multi-factorial syndrome defined by an ongoing loss of skeletal muscle mass (with or without loss of fat mass) that cannot be reversed by conventional nutritional support and leads to progressive functional impairment.
cancer cachexia. A complex, multifactorial syndrome characterised by anorexia and/or unintended loss of appetite, accompanied by generalized host tissue wasting, skeletal muscle atrophy, immune dysfunction, and metabolic derangements.
Definition and diagnosis. Cancer cachexia is defined as a multifactorial syndrome characterised by an ongoing loss of skeletal muscle mass (with or without loss of fat mass) that cannot be fully reversed by conventional nutritional support and leads to progressive functional impairment.