The cerebrum is further subdivided into four different sections that have their own respective functions and are termed as lobes. The names of these lobes are; frontal lobe, occipital lobe, parietal lobe and temporal lobe. Frontal Lobe: The frontal lobe is tasked with the duty of performing functions like expressive language, reasoning, higher level cognition and motor skills. It is positioned at the front portion of the brain. 
The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
Lobes of The Brain and Their Functions. Our brain is made up of the cerebrum, cerebellum, brain stem, and the limbic system. Read about the four lobes of the brain and their function, which determine the way we think, react and associate with our environment. The brain is the most complex organ of the human body. With over an estimated 50 - 100 billion neurons in it, the brain ticks and works in ways that are still a mystery to many neurologists.
Other functions of the temporal lobe include: 1  Since the hippocampus, or part of the brain responsible for transferring short-term memories into long-term memories, is located in the temporal lobe, the temporal lobe helps to form long-term memories and process new information. The occipital lobe, the smallest of the four lobes, is located near the posterior region of the cerebral cortex, near the back of the skull. The occipital lobe is the primary visual processing center of the brain. Here are some other functions of the occipital lobe: 1  Visual-spatial processing.
⇨ Temporal Lobe. There are two temporal lobes, each of which is located on each side of the brain; left and right, at about the level of the ears. The temporal lobes contain the primary auditory cortex, and hence, are responsible for all auditory processing. The brain is the most complex organ of the human body. With over an estimated 50 - 100 billion neurons in it, the brain ticks and works in ways that are still a mystery to many neurologists.
Brain Lobes and their Functions. The brain is divided into four sections, known as lobes (as shown in the image above). The frontal lobe, occipital lobe, parietal lobe, and temporal lobe have different locations and functions that support the responses and actions of the human body. The occipital lobe, the smallest of the four lobes, is located near the posterior region of the cerebral cortex, near the back of the skull. The occipital lobe is the primary visual processing center of the brain. Here are some other functions of the occipital lobe: 1  Visual-spatial processing.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. 
Print. Each side of your brain contains four lobes. The frontal lobe is important for cognitive functions and decision-making. The parietal lobe processes information about temperature, taste, touch and movement, and spatial orientation. The occipital lobe is primarily responsible for vision.
Brain Lobes and Their Functions. ⇨ Frontal Lobe. The frontal lobe is home to our cognitive thinking, and it is this process that determines and shapes an individual's personality. In human beings, the frontal lobe attains maturity when the individual is around the age of 25. The brain is the most complex organ of the human body. With over an estimated 50 - 100 billion neurons in it, the brain ticks and works in ways that are still a mystery to many neurologists.
Of all the parts of the brain, the cerebrum or cortex is the largest part, which is further sub-divided into four lobes; frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. Given below is an overview on the lobes of the brain and their functions. Diagram: Lobes of the Brain. The brain is the most complex organ of the human body. With over an estimated 50 - 100 billion neurons in it, the brain ticks and works in ways that are still a mystery to many neurologists.