Some people get mild cases of only a few days, o … thers get severe cases of a few weeks or more and are hospitalized. On average, the symptoms of the flu generally last 3 - 10 days but the H1N1/09 virus lasts more typically 4 - 7, although a cough and fatigue may persist for up to 2 weeks. Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu s … ymptoms for slightly longer.
According to the CDC, the flu typically lasts anywhere from a few days up to 2 weeks after it has been contracted. The length of the flu may be longer than 14 days for those in high risk categories for the illness. This may include: children under five, pregnant women, people over 50 years of age, and those living in assisted care or nursing homes.
If a cough lasts longer than ten days after the onset of the first symptoms of the flu, it is a good idea to check with your health care provider since secondary bronchitis or pneumonia can occur following a viral flu, and you may need to have some prescription medication to treat a secondary infection. Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu s … ymptoms for slightly longer.
If you're unlucky enough to get the flu, it can feel as if it's lasting forever. But for most otherwise healthy adults, it will be gone in 1 or 2 weeks. Many factors can affect how quickly you recover, including your age and other health conditions. If complications set in, you'll be out of commission even longer. The Usual Time Frame. Symptoms typically begin 1 to 4 days after you've been infected with the flu. According to Flu.gov, you're contagious for about a week, beginning about a day before your symptoms develop. Chills and fever are often the first symptoms to appear, with a fever of 102 to 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39 degrees Celsius) being common
Most otherwise healthy individuals actually have the flu virus infection for approximately one to two weeks but the main symptoms described above last from 3-10 days and most of the symptoms will begin to subside in about one week. To answer to “how long does the flu last?” I offer this information. First, there is a period of incubation from the time you are exposed to the flu virus to the time you start suffering the signs and symptoms and that period is approximately 1-5 days.
All symptoms of the flu are usually gone in 7 to 10 days, except a cough, which might last up to two weeks. If symptoms are extended beyond this time frame, check with your do … ctor to see if you need an examination. Usually a high fever lasts only a few days for a normal bout of the flu without secondary infections, perhaps 3 days at the most, although low grade fevers can accompany flu s … ymptoms for slightly longer.
Although infections from other viruses may have similar symptoms, those due to the influenza virus tend to be worse. Symptoms can begin about 1 to 4 days, or an average of 2 days, after a person is first exposed to the influenza virus. Fever and other symptoms can usually last up to 7 to 10 days, but the cough and weakness may last 1 to 2 weeks longer. If you get sick with influenza, home treatment can help ease symptoms. 
The flu can take anywhere from one to three weeks to present symptoms, and these symptoms usually last anywhere from seven days to two weeks. Find out why the best treatment for the flu is to stay hydrated and to get rest with help from a physician's assistant in this free video on the flu. The flu can last anywhere from seven days to two weeks, depending on the individual. The best treatment for the flu is to stay well-hydrated and get lots of rest. It is a self-limiting viral infection