DANAE was a princess of Argos in the Greek Peloponessos, a daughter of King Akrisios. When her father learned a prophecy that he was destined to be killed by a son of his daughter, he locked Danae away in a subterranean, bronze chamber. 
1. The third king of Argos, was a son of Zeus and Niobe. (Apollod. ii. 1. § 1, &c.) A Scholiast (ad Hom. Il. i. 115) calls him a son of Apis, whom he succeeded in the kingdom of Argos. It is from this Argus that the country afterwards called Argolis and all Peloponnesus derived the name of Argos. (Hygin
Argos. 1 Many-eyed monster, also called Panoptes. He guarded Io Io,in Greek mythology, daughter of Inachus, king ofo Argos. She was loved by Zeus, who, to protect her from Hera's jealousy, changed her into a white heifer. Hera, however, was not deceived; she claimed the heifer and sent Argus to guard it...... 2 Builder of the Argo Argo, in Greek mythology, ship in which Jason and the Argonauts sailed in quest of the Golden Fleece. Most legends say that Argus, son of Phrixus, was the builder, with the help of Athena.
At a strategic location on the fertile plain of Argolis, Argos was a major stronghold during the Mycenaean era. In classical times Argos was a powerful rival of Sparta for dominance over the Peloponnese, but was eventually shunned by other Greek city-states after remaining neutral during the Greco-Persian Wars.
The myths of Argos, a city in the northeast Peloponnese, are probably the most important in all of Greek myth. In these myths we find the stories of the famous heroes Perseus, Bellerophon, and Herakles, and also the Argive origin of the myths of Thebes, Crete, and Mycenae.The story begins with the river god Inachos, from whom all the people of Argos are descended. His son Phoroneus is the first man of the region, its Adam.
Greek Mythology Edit. In Greek mythology, Argus Panoptes is a 100 eyed giant (ἄργος πανόπτης) or Argos was a primordial giant, guardian of Io and son of Alester. He was also called all-seeing and because of that was described as multi-eyed, strong creature, whose eyes would never sleep. 
The son of Ekbasos [son of Argos, son of Zeus and Niobe,] was Agenor, and his son was Argos surnamed Panoptes. This man had eyes all over his body. He was extremely powerful, and killed the bull that raged through Arkadia whose hide he used as a cloak. ARGOS PANOPTES was a hundred-eyed giant who lived in the region of Argolis in the Peloponnese. Once when Zeus was consorting with the Nymph Io, his wife Hera arrived on the scene. The god quickly transformed his lover into a white heifer, but the goddess was not deceived.
Argus Panoptes (or Argos) is a 100-eyed giant in Greek mythology. The epithet Panoptes was applied to the Titan of the Sun, Helios, and was taken up as an epithet by Zeus, Zeus Panoptes. In a way, Walter Burkert observes, the power and order of Argos the city are embodied in Argos the neatherd, lord of the herd and lord of the land, whose name itself is the name of the land ..
Argus (or Argos) was a monster in Greek mythology. He was famous in legend for having many eyes. With his multiple sets of eyes, he could see nearly everything in his vicinity. And indeed, with his keen vision, Argus was regarded as an almost perfect mythological guard creature. 