Muscovy will lay up to 180 eggs a year and hatch about four sets of ducklings if they get lots of high protein feed. Muscovy ducks are great mothers and do a good job raising their young. Muscovy take longer to hatch than other poultry... an egg takes 33 to 35 days to hatch. A chicken, for example, hatches in 21 days. Muscovy meat is one of the healthiest meats on the market today, being 98% or greater fat free
It takes around 28 days for ducks to hatch. However has been known to take up to 35-36 days for certain breeds. some times it takes 40 days i had a duck that had eggs in my … back yard i had a chart list and it was 40 days (sometimes it dose not). It takes a mallard duck 28-30 days for the eggs to hatch. All of the eggs will hatch within 24 hours and they will then head for water. Never to return to the nest. 3 people found this useful.
Mallard duck eggs take 28 days to hatch normally, plus one day for the older eggs in store, say 29 days. When mallard ducks laying eggs how long does it take for them to hatch? incubated for 27-28 days to hatching with 50-60 days to fledging so 50-60 days i guess. At best, this is an ill formed answer, as it is not accurate. Duck eggs hatch dependi … ng on the species of duck. Mallard ducks can hatch as early as 25 days, they do not follow the 28 scenario
Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. Pekin duck eggs are kept in a setter for 25 days and then transferred on the 25th day to a hatcher where they remain until they hatch on the 28th day. Eggs are automatically turned while in the setter (usually hourly). It is not necessary to turn eggs in the hatcher.
If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Duck eggs take 28-30 days to hatch, except for Muscovy eggs, which take 35 days. If you find a wild duck's nest on your property and don't see the mother on the eggs, don't necessarily worry. 
It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken.. When mallard ducks laying eggs how long does it take for them to hatch? incubated for 27-28 days to hatching with 50-60 days to fledging so 50-60 days i guess. At best, this is an ill formed answer, as it is not accurate. Duck eggs hatch dependi … ng on the species of duck. Mallard ducks can hatch as early as 25 days, they do not follow the 28 scenario
It takes 28 days just like any other kind of egg or just like chicken eggs.. Duck eggs are not like chicken eggs. Chicken eggs take approximately 21 days to hatch. Duck egg … s, depending on species, incubator temps, and humidity levels, take between 25 and 35 days to hatch. It takes a mallard duck 28-30 days for the eggs to hatch. All of the eggs will hatch within 24 hours and they will then head for water. Never to return to the nest. 3 people found this useful.