Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) refers to loss of blood flow to the optic nerve (which is the cable that connects the eye to the brain). This condition typically causes sudden vision loss in one eye, without any pain. It is called “ischemic” because that is the word that describes injury due to reduced blood flow. Finally, it is called an “optic neuropathy” because it is an injury to the optic nerve, which disrupts the ability of eye to send information to the brain.
EYE FACTS ischemic optic neuropathy Decreased blood flow to the eye’s optic nerve can cause loss of vision. Ischemic (pronounced iss-KEE-mik) optic neuropathy (ION) is a relatively sudden loss of central vision, side vision, or both due to decreased or interrupted blood flow to the eye’s optic nerve. In order for you to see, the optic nerve carries impulses from the eye to the brain, where they are interpreted as images
Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) is due to impaired circulation of blood to the front of the optic nerve. It is called “non-arteritic” because there is reduced blood flow without true inflammation of the blood vessels (as there is in arteritis). It is called “ischemic” because that is the word that describes injury due to reduced blood flow. Finally, it is called an “optic neuropathy” because it is an injury to the optic nerve, which disrupts the ability of eye to send information to the brain.
Comanagement of anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) with an internist, especially a rheumatologist, is helpful in patients with giant cell arteritis. Control of blood pressure and diabetes, often comorbid conditions, is helpful in the general sense, but it is of little use in the recovery of visual loss. 
Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) is the most common cause of acute optic neuropathy in older age groups. It can be nonarteritic (nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy [NAION]) or arteritic, the latter being associated with giant cell arteritis. Background. Field defects typical of ischemic optic neuropathy were probably first described by Knapp in 1875. Miller and Smith first used the term ischemic optic neuropathy in 1966, and Hayreh later added the term anterior.
Ischemia of the optic nerve results in ischemic optic neuropathy [ 17, 24, 36, 49, 57, 74 ]. Ischemia is a decrease in the blood supply to a tissue in the body which in turn decreases oxygen and nutrition. Without sufficient oxygen and nutrition, nerves cannot function properly and will eventually die. Ischemic optic neuropathy is one of the most common causes of loss of vision in persons past middle age. However, it does occur less commonly, in younger persons. Knowledge about this disease will enable patients and their doctors to work together to understand the disease.
This article is intended to give basic information about ischemic optic neuropathy, which is sometimes called stroke of the optic nerve in lay persons' term. Ischemic optic neuropathy is one of the most common causes of loss of vision in persons past middle age. However, it does occur less commonly, in younger persons. Knowledge about this disease will enable patients and their doctors to work together to understand the disease.
Race. Nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy is most common in whites (95%); it is less common in blacks (2%), Asians (3%), and Hispanics (1%). The arteritic form of the disease is predominantly described among whites of European descent, particularly Scandinavian and German. Background. Field defects typical of ischemic optic neuropathy were probably first described by Knapp in 1875. Miller and Smith first used the term ischemic optic neuropathy in 1966, and Hayreh later added the term anterior.
It is composed of over 1 million neurons. Damage to the optic nerve is called optic neuropathy. Ischemic optic neuropathy (ION) is a sudden loss of central vision and/or side vision because of poor blood flow to the optic nerve (figure 1). There are two main forms of ION, arteritic (aka Temporal arteritis) and nonarteritic (aka NAION).
Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) is a sudden loss of vision due to an interruption of blood flow to the front (anterior) of the optic nerve, also known as the optic nerve head. The optic nerve’s job is to carry visual information from the eye to the brain, which assembles this information into images. 