The first thing to consider when planning when to put the turkey in the oven is the stuffing. A stuffed turkey takes longer to cook than an unstuffed turkey. Assuming you are roasting your turkey in a 325°F oven, plan on 15 to 17 minutes of cooking time for each pound of an unstuffed turkey. Plan on 20 to 22 minutes per pound for a 
From prepping and basting to roasting and carving, get all the tips you need to cook your bird. 1  Heat oven to 350 degrees F. 2  Roast turkey uncovered for 20 minutes per pound. 3  Cook to an internal temperature of 165 degrees measured at the thigh. 4  Let rest 20 minutes before carving. 
The oven-roasting bag keeps the turkey very moist and it speeds up the roasting time. The following cooking times can be used as a guideline for an unstuffed turkey roasted in an oven bag in a 350°F conventional oven. An additional 30 minutes or more may be required for a stuffed turkey. 1 Insert a fork into the thigh or breast of a turkey, if juices are clear the turkey is fully cooked. 2  Do no refreeze thawed poultry. 3  Within 2 hours of the start of your meal, all perishable foods must be refrigerated. 4  If you cook a turkey that comes with a pop-up timer, the cooking process can be almost foolproof.
Check the wing and the thickest part of the breast. You may choose to cook the turkey to higher temperatures. Cooking time will vary. For example, a 20 pound turkey will take 4 1/4 to 5 hours to cook, check the temperature on the thermometer after 4 1/4 hours. 4.
Roast the turkey: The rule of thumb for cooking a turkey is 13 minutes per pound. So our 16-pound turkey was estimated to cook in about 3 1/2 hours. However, some factors like brining the bird, cooking with an empty (un-stuffed) cavity, and leaving the legs un-trussed will contribute to much faster cooking. 1 Prepare the turkey for roasting: Thirty minutes to an hour before roasting, take the turkey out of the fridge. 2  Remove any packaging and the bag of giblets (check in the body cavity and in the neck cavity). 3  Set the turkey breast-side up on the roasting rack and let it sit while the oven preheats.
4-1/2 to 5 hours. 5-1/2 to 6-1/4 hours. Cook the turkey until the skin is a light golden color, and then cover loosely with a foil tent. During the last 45 minutes of baking, remove the foil tent to brown the skin. Basting is not necessary, but will promote even browning. The only true test for doneness is the temperature of the meat, not the color of the skin. 1  The turkey is done when the thigh meat reaches an internal temperature of 165 degrees F.
1 Place sliced lemon, or a whole onion into the cavity of a turkey while roasting, the flavor will create a tasty juice for gravy. 2  If you have chosen to use a roasting bag, open the bag for the final 15 to 20 minutes of roasting to allow the skin of the turkey to crisp. 1 Insert a fork into the thigh or breast of a turkey, if juices are clear the turkey is fully cooked. 2  Do no refreeze thawed poultry. 3  Within 2 hours of the start of your meal, all perishable foods must be refrigerated. 4  If you cook a turkey that comes with a pop-up timer, the cooking process can be almost foolproof.
7 Roast the Turkey. Before you put the turkey in the oven, do a rough calculation of how much overall time it should take to cook the turkey. Usually they say to assume 15 minutes for every pound of meat, but I have found in practice that it's usually less than that, more like 13-14 minutes per pound. You might try deducting 15 minutes of cooking time for every pound of turkey less than 15 lbs. So for a 12 lb turkey, deduct 45 minutes cooking time. I would take half of the time from the middle and half from the end of the cooking.
Be sure to plan ahead — it takes approximately 4-5 days for a 20-pound turkey to fully defrost. 2. For crisper skin, unwrap the turkey the day before roasting and leave it uncovered in the refrigerator overnight. 3. Cooking times will differ depending on whether your bird was purchased fresh or frozen. Plan on 20 minutes per pound in a 350 degree F oven for a defrosted turkey and 10 to 15 minutes per pound for fresh. 4. A turkey will cook more evenly if it is not densely stuffed. 