Shifting. The transmission valve body controls transmission shifting. The transmission valve body contains channels used to direct hydraulic fluid to valves that allow the gears to shift as needed in an automobile. Valves. Valves controlled by the transmission valve body serve a variety of functions. Shift valves, such as the 2-3 shift valve, are responsible for shifting the gear up one level.
Save. The valve body is a part of an automatic transmission that aids in the gear shifting process. But, like any mechanical device, problems may affect the valve body. 1  The Symptoms of a Bad Transmission Solenoid. The transmission valve body is an integral part of this system. Discover the expert in you. home; mom; style; food ... Symptoms...
The transmission valve body is the brain of the transmission. It controls the transmission shifts and directs the appropriate fluids into the appropriate passages to aid in the shifting. A weak transmission pump can cause improper lubrication in a transmission valve body, which could cause metal to metal contact. This can cause unnecessary wear, causing the gears to stick or fail. Unnecessary wear can cause metal debris, which can lead to other problems.
Clutch Packs and Band Servos. The transmission valve body uses the hydraulic fluid to engage a band servo or clutch pack to shift to the necessary gear. A clutch pack consists of discs that are coupled to the side of the engine, and rotate when the engine is running. Valves. Valves controlled by the transmission valve body serve a variety of functions. Shift valves, such as the 2-3 shift valve, are responsible for shifting the gear up one level.
Transmission fluid is directed throughout the valve body by various transmission solenoids– such as the transmission shift solenoid, lockup solenoid, or transmission control solenoid (there’s also a torque converter clutch solenoid) –that either open or close hydraulic valves to regulate fluid flow. The transmission solenoid is responsible for opening or closing valves in the valve body to allow transmission fluid to enter, at which point the fluid can do its thing and pressurize the clutches and bands.
The valve body is the control center of the automatic transmission. It contains a maze of channels and passages that direct hydraulic fluid to the numerous valves which then activate the appropriate clutch pack or band servo to smoothly shift to the appropriate gear for each driving situation. 1 Planetary Gear Sets which are the mechanical systems that provide the various forward gear ratios as well as reverse. 2  The Hydraulic System which uses a special transmission fluid sent under pressure by an Oil Pump through the Valve Body to control the Clutches and the Bands in order to control the planetary gear sets.
Valve Bodies HPAdmin 2015-05-26T19:16:34+00:00. The valve body of the transmission, or control valve, is the central nerve system that tells the transmission what to do, at what time. It contains springs, valves, and many fluid passages that are critical to the proper operation of the transmission. 
The valve body is the control center or brain of the automatic transmission. It contains a maze of channels and passages that direct hydraulic fluid to the various valves which then activate the appropriate clutch pack or band servo to smoothly shift to the appropriate gear for each driving situation. Simply put, the valve body makes all of the shifting decisions for your transmission. Different inputs from various switches and sensors provide the valve body with the necessary information for the transmission to do it’s job properly.
Each of the many valves in the valve body has a specific purpose and is named for that function. For example the 2-3 shift valve activates the 2nd gear to 3rd gear up-shift or the 3-2 shift timing valve which determines when a downshift should occur. 1 Planetary Gear Sets which are the mechanical systems that provide the various forward gear ratios as well as reverse. 2  The Hydraulic System which uses a special transmission fluid sent under pressure by an Oil Pump through the Valve Body to control the Clutches and the Bands in order to control the planetary gear sets.