In order for a court to have jurisdiction, the state must have personal jurisdiction over at least one of the parties to the marriage. Generally, this means that you must get divorced in the state where at least one of the parties lives.
Usually, you may file for a divorce in the county where your spouse lives, in the county where you and your spouse lived at the time of your separation or in the county where you live if your spouse doesn’t live in your state.
Georgia Residency Requirements. Georgia requires that you live in the state for at least six months before you can file for divorce. If you and your spouse relocated to Georgia together, or if you moved there on your own after you separated, one of you must be a resident for six continuous months before you can file.
Where you get a divorce doesn't depend on where you got married. It depends on where you live at the time you file. The state where you file must have jurisdiction over your matter to grant you a divorce, and this is legally achieved if you live there. You can also usually file in the state where your spouse resides.
If your spouse stayed behind in South Carolina, if he still resides there and that was where you lived when you were married, you can also file for divorce in that state. You don’t have to personally live in South Carolina to file for divorce if your spouse has resided there for at least a year.
You can get a divorce in a state different from the one you are married in if you or your spouse is a resident of the other state. Residency varies from state to state but u … sually take 6 months to a year to establish residency for the purpose of getting a divorce in that state.
Step 2. Establish your residency in North Carolina. Either you or your spouse must live in the state for six months before you can file for divorce. If you separate from your spouse while living in Texas, that’s OK, provided you move to North Carolina and reside there for at least six months.
You can get a divorce in a state different from the one you are married in if you or your spouse is a resident of the other state. Residency varies from state to state but u … sually take 6 months to a year to establish residency for the purpose of getting a divorce in that state. + 10 others found this useful.