[edit] Kinds of nutritional supplements. You can roughly break down the different types of supplements down like this: 1  Vitamin supplement: These are used for if you are not getting enough vitamins in your diet, and sometimes includes mineral supplements. 2  Herbal supplements: This can be basically anyone of these, and are in theory derived from some plant. 
Dietary supplements come in a variety of forms: traditional tablets, capsules, and powders, as well as drinks and energy bars. Popular supplements include vitamins D and E; minerals like calcium and iron; herbs such as echinacea and garlic; and specialty products like glucosamine, probiotics, and fish oils. Dietary supplements are products intended to supplement the diet. They are not drugs and, therefore, are not intended to treat, diagnose, mitigate, prevent, or cure diseases. The FDA is the federal agency that oversees both dietary supplements and medicines.
Vitamins are nutrients that your body needs for proper health. You need 13 different types of vitamins for your body to control processes such as digestion, cell division and nerve function. If you are not getting enough of a certain type of vitamin through your diet, you can take it in the form of a dietary supplement. Water-soluble vitamins, such as the different B vitamins and vitamin C, are absorbed into your system and the extra concentrations eliminated through your kidneys. Minerals. Minerals are types of nutrients that are essential to your health. You can get them through your diet and by taking dietary supplements. Your body uses minerals to produce the hormones and enzymes that control your metabolism and as electrolytes to balance body fluids.
The types of claims that can be made on the labels of dietary supplements and drugs differ. Drug manufacturers may claim that their product will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat, or prevent a disease. Such claims may not legally be made for dietary supplements. The label of a dietary supplement or food product may contain one of three types of claims: a health claim, nutrient content claim, or structure/function claim.
Types of Dietary Supplements. Dietary supplements include everything from vitamins and minerals to herbs such as cinnamon and St. John’s wort. Dietary supplements also come in a number of forms including: 1  Tablets. The main types of dietary supplements include: 1  Botanicals (derived from plants and possibly including herbs). 2  Vitamins. 3  Minerals. 4  Fatty Acids. 5  Other Dietary Supplements.
The majority of adults in the United States take one or more dietary supplements either every day or occasionally. Today's dietary supplements include vitamins, minerals, herbals and botanicals, amino acids, enzymes, and many other products. Dietary supplements are products intended to supplement the diet. They are not drugs and, therefore, are not intended to treat, diagnose, mitigate, prevent, or cure diseases. The FDA is the federal agency that oversees both dietary supplements and medicines.
The FDA provides some guidance, but does not regulate these supplements. While there are many kinds of supplements, the general purpose of each dietary supplement is to provide the body with some sort of nutrient or vitamin that it needs but is unable to obtain through everyday foods. Although different than the vitamin and mineral supplements, Herbal supplements are the base of many medicinal practices. Herbal supplements have been used for thousands of years, and with advances in technology, many herbal remedies are now available as a supplement.
Dietary supplement labels may carry certain types of health-related claims. Manufacturers are permitted to say, for example, that a dietary supplement addresses a nutrient deficiency, supports health, or is linked to a particular body function (like immunity or heart health). Dietary supplements are products intended to supplement the diet. They are not drugs and, therefore, are not intended to treat, diagnose, mitigate, prevent, or cure diseases. The FDA is the federal agency that oversees both dietary supplements and medicines.
There are three main types of dietary supplements, including herbal supplements, vitamin and mineral supplements and probiotic supplements. In addition, there are some dietary supplements that are harmful and should be avoided at all times. Although different than the vitamin and mineral supplements, Herbal supplements are the base of many medicinal practices. Herbal supplements have been used for thousands of years, and with advances in technology, many herbal remedies are now available as a supplement.