Everyone treated us very well and the island is unbelievably beautiful.. More hotels near DBV-Dubrovnik Airport. We've negotiated with thousands of hotels to get the very best deals. We call them Secret Deals and they only last for a limited time. You can get these deals for free by subscribing to our newsletters. You can even choose your favourite destinations to receive personalised deals. 
1 Hotel Porto ★★★☆☆ The Hotel Porto is located at the entrance to the city of Zadar. 2  It takes only a 10-minute drive to reach it from the airport – it is the nearest city hotel to the airport. 3  Prices from €35 – Number of rooms: 103 – Check Hotel Porto, Zadar availability. Dubrovnik is the most popular destination in Dalmatia as well as in Croatia.. read more + Dubrovnik Photos + Dubrovnik Travel Guide. Hvar – Central Dalmatian Island, famous for it’s lavender fields as well as Renaissance architecture. Hvar is the Dalmatian island located between Korcula Island and Island of Brac.
Nearest major airport to Dubrovnik Airport: The closest major airport to Dubrovnik Airport is Tivat Airport (TIV / LYTV). This airport is in Tivat, Montenegro and is 51 km from DBV. If you're looking for international flights to TIV, check the airlines that fly to TIV. The nearest major airport in Croatia is Bol Airport (BWK / LDSB). This airport has domestic flights from Brac, Croatia and is about 153 km from DBV. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near DBV, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. You can also browse local airports if you're a pilot.
Dubrovnik Airport (IATA: DBV, ICAO: LDDU), also referred to as Čilipi Airport (. [tʃǐlipi]), is the international airport of Dubrovnik, Croatia. The airport is located approximately 15.5 km (9.5 mi) from Dubrovnik city centre, near Čilipi. It was the third busiest airport in Croatia in 2014 in terms of passenger throughput and has the country`s longest runway
Dubrovnik Airport. Dubrovnik Airport is one of Dubrovnik's most renowned sites. With the lowest hotel rates in town, Agoda.com offers many lodging options a short distance away from Airports. The choice of accommodation near Dubrovnik Airport greatly varies from luxurious hotels to affordable guesthouses. 
Closest Airport to Dubrovnik. The closest airport is Dubrovnik Airport (DBV). Distance from Dubrovnik Airport to Dubrovnik is 17,4 kilometers (10,8 miles). Dubrovnik Airport is located approximately 17,4 kilometers (10,8 miles) southeast of Dubrovnik and about 17,9 kilometers (11,1 miles) south of Trebinje. Dubrovnik Airport IATA code is DBV
Another major airport is Tivat Airport (TIV / LYTV), which has international flights from Tivat, Montenegro and is 72 km from Dubrovnik, Croatia. Mostar Airport (OMO / LQMO) has international flights from Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina and is 143 km from Dubrovnik, Croatia. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Dubrovnik, Croatia, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. You can also browse local airports if you're a pilot. If you're booking an international flight, you probably want the closest major airport, otherwise if you're a pilot you may be looking for a local airport. Use this tool along with the flight distance pages to plan your travel.
Dubrovnik Airport. Dubrovnik Airport is located approximately 17,4 kilometers (10,8 miles) southeast of Dubrovnik and about 17,9 kilometers (11,1 miles) south of Trebinje. Dubrovnik Airport IATA code is DBV
Arriving at Dubrovnik Airport. - Our team are ready on hand if you have any questions or require assistance. By Car. The airport is located 21km (13 miles) to the south east of Dubrovnik. Find a great deal on car rental from the airport with our car rental partner Europcar. 