The noun PROCYON has 2 senses: 1. the brightest star in Canis Minor. 2. the type genus of the family Procyonidae: raccoons. Familiarity information: PROCYON used as a noun is rare. 
It’s hard to think of Procyon – the Little Dog Star – without also thinking of the other Dog Star, Sirius. If you’re looking at the right time of year (or right time of night), you can always find Sirius because it’s the sky’s brightest star. Currently Procyon is designated as an F5IV-V star, where the F5 essentially gives the color or temperature of the star’s surface, and the IV-V means that it is in a transitional phase between the Main Sequence (V) and subdwarf (IV) periods.
Procyon in history and mythology. Procyon is the alpha star of the constellation Canis Minor the Small Dog. In mythology, Canis Minor is the smaller of two of Orion the Hunter’s companion hunting dogs. The constellation Canis Major depicts the Great Dog, highlighted by Sirius, the sky’s brightest star (after the sun). Currently Procyon is designated as an F5IV-V star, where the F5 essentially gives the color or temperature of the star’s surface, and the IV-V means that it is in a transitional phase between the Main Sequence (V) and subdwarf (IV) periods.
The Dog Stars are Sirius in the constellation Canis Major, and Procyon in the constellation Canis Minor. In this photo, Orion is in the upper right. Notice that the three stars of Orion’s Belt point to the brightest star in this photo, Sirius. Currently Procyon is designated as an F5IV-V star, where the F5 essentially gives the color or temperature of the star’s surface, and the IV-V means that it is in a transitional phase between the Main Sequence (V) and subdwarf (IV) periods.
Visibility [edit]. Procyon is the eighth brightest star in the night sky, culminating at midnight on January 14. It forms one of the three vertices of the Winter Triangle asterism, in combination with Sirius and Betelgeuse. The prime period for evening viewing of Procyon is in late winter. At 0.6 M☉ , Procyon B is considerably less massive than Sirius B; however, the peculiarities of degenerate matter ensure that it is larger than its more famous neighbor, with an estimated radius of 8,600 km, versus 5,800 km for Sirius B. The radius agrees with white dwarf models that assume a carbon core.
Procyon is a binary star system with a bright primary component, Procyon A, having an apparent magnitude of 0.34, and a faint companion, Procyon B, at magnitude 10.7. The pair orbit each other with a period of 40.82 years along an elliptical orbit with an eccentricity of 0.407. At 0.6 M☉ , Procyon B is considerably less massive than Sirius B; however, the peculiarities of degenerate matter ensure that it is larger than its more famous neighbor, with an estimated radius of 8,600 km, versus 5,800 km for Sirius B. The radius agrees with white dwarf models that assume a carbon core.
Procyon or Alpha Canis Minoris (Alp CMi) is the brightest naked eye star in the constellation Canis Minor. With an apparent magnitude of 0.4, Procyon is the 8th brightest star in the entire sky (see: 50 Brightest Stars). Its absolute magnitude is 2.68 and its distance is 11.4 light years. The Equinox J2000 equatorial coordinates are RA = 07h 39m 18.1s, Dec = +05° 13' 30. Procyon has a spectral type of F5IV, a surface temperature of 6650° Kelvin and a luminosity 6.9 times the Sun.