1 After you insert a symbol like copyright or trademark, highlight it and then click on Format on the taskbar, select Font, then go to the Font tab and place a check mark in the box next to Superscript. Tips. 1  After you insert a symbol like copyright or trademark, highlight it and then click on Format on the taskbar, select Font, then go to the Font tab and place a check mark in the box next to Superscript. 2  By selecting Superscript, your copyright symbol will be raised slightly above the line of tex
The registered trademark symbol (®) is a symbol that provides notice that the preceding word or symbol is a trademark or service mark that has been registered with a national trademark office. A trademark is a symbol, word, or words legally registered or established by use as representing a company or product. Trademarks not officially registered can instead be marked with the trademark symbol ™, while unregistered service marks are marked with the service mark symbol ℠.
Trademark symbols ™. Trademark (also called trade mark) TM, Registered and Service Mark (or servicemark) signs are meaningful popular computer symbols. You can type trademark and registered symbols right from your keyboard. Continue reading and I'll show you how to do that using different techniques on Windows, Mac and GNU/Linux. Keyboard viewer. You can make frequently used technical non-fancy symbols including trademark, registered and copyright symbols, aswell as accented åccénted letters On mac [Using] option. Key'i ve compiled a list of shortcuts in my article and explained how to open keyboard. viewer
Insert copyright and trademark symbols in Outlook for Windows. You can add a variety of symbols to email messages that you write. Here's how: On the Insert tab, click Symbol. Click a symbol in the immediate list, or click More Symbols, and then click the symbol you want. Copyright and trademark symbols can also be added by using a keyboard shortcut. For example: To insert the copyright symbol, press Ctrl+Alt+C. To insert the trademark symbol, press Ctrl+Alt+T
Insert copyright and trademark symbols. A variety of symbols can be added to an email message that you are composing. To add symbols, on the Insert tab, and then in the Symbols group, click Symbol, and then click the symbol that you want. Copyright and trademark symbols can be added by using a keyboard shortcut. For example: To insert the copyright symbol, press Ctrl+Alt+C. To insert the trademark symbol, press Ctrl+Alt+T. To insert the registered trademark symbol, press Ctrl+Alt+R. There’s even a faster way to enter copyright and trademark symbols. By using the default AutoCorrect feature, type C, T, or R enclosed in parentheses such as (c)
Copyright and registered trademark symbols can not easily be copy pasted into your html webpage so you should use the Copyright or registered trademark html symbol code instead. 
In some countries it is against the law to use the registered trademark symbol for a mark that is not officially registered in any country. Trademarks not officially registered can instead be marked with the trademark symbol ™, while unregistered service marks are marked with the service mark symbol ℠. The proper manner to display these symbols is immediately following the mark, and is commonly in superscript style but is not legally required
In addition to proper application of the various copyright symbols and trademark symbols you will often have to fine-tune them for the best visual appearance. Learn how to type the copyright, trademark, and registered tradmark symbols found in most standard Mac and Windows fonts. Difficulty: Average. Time Required: A few seconds to type or code copyright symbol. Here's How: 1  Create the TM trademark symbols ™ using Option-2 on the Mac. 2  Under Windows, create TM trademark symbols ™ using ALT 0153 (hold down the ALT key and type 0153 on the numeric keypad). 3  Create the circled C copyright symbols © using Option-G on the Mac.
A trademark, trade mark, or trade-mark is a recognizable sign, design, or expression which identifies products or services of a particular source from those of others, although trademarks used to identify services are usually called service marks. 