A lambda expression is an anonymous function that you can use to create delegates or expression tree types. By using lambda expressions, you can write local functions that can be passed as arguments or returned as the value of function calls. You can also supply a lambda expression when the argument type is an, for example in the standard query operators that are defined in System.Linq.Queryable. When you specify an argument, the lambda will be compiled to an expression tree.
It refers to the lambda calculus which is a formal system that just has lambda expressions, which represents a function that takes a function for its sole argument and returns a function. All functions in the lambda calculus are of that type, i.e., λ: λ → λ. As you can see from the snippet of Python, the function adder takes in an argument x, and returns an anonymous function, or lambda, that takes another argument y. That anonymous function allows you to create functions from functions. This is a simple example, but it should convey the power lambdas and closures have.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: Lambda, the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet, is the symbol for wavelength. In optical fiber networking, the word lambda is used to refer to an individual optical wavelength. This was last updated in September 2005. 
Lambda calculus is a conceptually simple universal model of computation (Turing showed in 1937 that Turing machines equaled the lambda calculus in expressiveness). The name derives from the Greek letter lambda (λ) used to denote binding a variable in a function. The letter itself is arbitrary and has no special meaning. Lambda calculus is taught and used in computer science because of its usefulness in showcasing functional thinking and iterative reduction. For example, is a lambda abstraction for the function using the term for. The definition of a function with a lambda abstraction merely sets up the function but does not invoke it. The abstraction binds the variable in the term.
AWS Lambda is a compute service where you can upload your code to AWS Lambda and the service can run the code on your behalf using AWS infrastructure. After you upload your code and create what we call a Lambda function, AWS Lambda takes care of provisioning and managing the servers that you use to run the code. 
A lambda is a type of function, defined inline. Along with a lambda you also usually have some kind of variable type that can hold a reference to a function, lambda or otherwise. For instance, here's a C# piece of code that doesn't use a lambda: As you can see from the snippet of Python, the function adder takes in an argument x, and returns an anonymous function, or lambda, that takes another argument y. That anonymous function allows you to create functions from functions. This is a simple example, but it should convey the power lambdas and closures have.
1 Lambda indicates the wavelength of any wave, especially in physics, electronics engineering, and mathematics. 2  Lambda indicates the radioactivity decay constant in nuclear physics and radioactivity. 3  This constant is very simply related (by a multiplicative constant) to the half-life of any radioactive material. 1 Lambda is occasionally used in graphic design to represent a stylised 'A'. 2  Examples include the Disney movie Atlantis: The Lost Empire, the logo of the band Angels & Airwaves, the logo of the band Dream Theater, the logo of electronics company Samsung, and the logo of the engineering consultancy Atkins.
Lambda (uppercase λ, lowercase λ; Greek: λάμ(β)δα lam(b)da) is the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals lambda has a value of 30. Lambda is related to the Phoenician letter Lamed. Letters in other alphabets that stemmed from lambda include the Latin L and the Cyrillic letter El (л, л). 1 Lambda is occasionally used in graphic design to represent a stylised 'A'. 2  Examples include the Disney movie Atlantis: The Lost Empire, the logo of the band Angels & Airwaves, the logo of the band Dream Theater, the logo of electronics company Samsung, and the logo of the engineering consultancy Atkins.
Definition of LAMBDA. 1. : the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet — see alphabet table. 2. : an uncharged unstable elementary particle that has a mass 2183 times that of an electron and that decays typically into a nucleon and a pion. See lambda defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The word lambda or lambda expressions most often refers to anonymous functions. So in that sense a lambda is a kind of function, but not every function is a lambda (i.e. named functions aren't usually referred to as lambdas). 