The extra pins on a DVI-I connector carry the analog signal which the DVI-D connector does not have. NVIDIA based graphics cards which carry a DVI-I connector are fully compatible with flat panel LCD monitors which typically have DVI-D cables. The DVI-D cable will only read the digital signal from the DVI-I connector on the graphics card and ignore the analog signal. If your NVIDIA based graphics card features two video out connectors (ie VGA + DVI), it does not necessarily mean that it will support dual monitors at the same time. For every graphics card that features a DVI connector, the number of pins and layout of the pins on the DVI connector will vary depending on what type of DVI connector is found on the graphics card. There are currently two prominent types of DVI connectors, DVI-I (Figure 1) and DVI-D (Figure 2).
You can run a VGA monitor from a video card that supports this type of signal. A dual link DVI-D/I cable has two sets of data and can be used to run larger monitors such as the HP LP3065 or Apple 30 display (at 2560x1600). If you have a monitor and card with a DVI-I connector then the monitor can use the analogue or digital signal. No, The analog signal is carried over extra wires that is present in a DVI-I cable that is not in a DVI-D Cable. Click the image below for a larger view. Here is another image comparing the different types of connections with the different pin-outs.
DVI-I has two sets of signals: a digital signal and an analogue one that is in the same format as VGA. There is also a single and dual link variant of DVI-I, but most cables are dual link. Note that this is something different from the DMS59-Dual DVI adaptor cables used with some video cards. A DVI-VGA cable just hooks up the analogue signals. No, The analog signal is carried over extra wires that is present in a DVI-I cable that is not in a DVI-D Cable. Click the image below for a larger view. Here is another image comparing the different types of connections with the different pin-outs.
What is the difference between DVI-I and DVI-D on NVIDIA based graphics cards? Most current NVIDIA based graphics cards feature a Digital Video Interface (DVI) connector for connecting a digital flat panel LCD monitor or projector to the card. For every graphics card that features a DVI connector, the number of pins and layout of the pins on the DVI connector will vary depending on what type of DVI connector is found on the graphics card. There are currently two prominent types of DVI connectors, DVI-I (Figure 1) and DVI-D (Figure 2).
Although a Dual Link DVI connector has more pins, a standard DVI-I connector has the complete pin set to facilitate a digital and an analog connection. This is not the case with DVI-D cables as the four pins that are supposed to carry the analog signals have been removed. 2. DVI-I connectors have all the necessary pins for a single link DVI cable while DVI-D connectors lack the four pins that is supposed to carry the analog signal. 3. The long and flat pin on the DVI-D connector is slightly smaller than that on the DVI-I connector. 4.
1,370. DVI-I is a connector that is compatible with both DVI-A (analog) and DVI-D (digital), which are not compatible. DVI-A is largely a computer format. DVI-I is a connector that is compatible with both DVI-A (analog) and DVI-D (digital), which are not compatible
The short story is that DVI is the predecessor of HDMI, and the main difference is that the HDMI signal carries Audio as well as Video, where as the DVI signal is mute. The Letters A, D and I denotes different technologies. DVI-I is a connector that is compatible with both DVI-A and DVI-D (which are not compatible). DVI-A is largely a computer format. DVI-D is commonly used on all other home electronics. 1  DVI-A = Analog. 2  DVI-D = Digital. 3  DVI-I = Integrated (Both A and D). 4  M1-DA = Integrated (A, D, I and USB)
Summary: 1. DVI-D is a DVI connector that is meant for digital signals only while DVI-I is a connector that allows both digital and analog signals. 2. DVI-I connectors have all the necessary pins for a single link DVI cable while DVI-D connectors lack the four pins that is supposed to carry the analog signal. 3. The long and flat pin on the DVI-D connector is slightly smaller than that on the DVI-I connector. 4.