Personally I adore saran hair and would use it more often if it came in more colors. No, it doesn't curl well at all but if you're going for the sleek, straight look saran is perfect. I find it just as easy to work with as nylon and IMO the colors have a lot of depth and shine. Kanekelon: Kanekelon fibers are shiny, silky, and stiffer than saran or nylon. It is most often used for straight hair. Kanekelon fibers takes to styling moderately to poorly and will crimp or melt under high heat settings; however, it can be worked with on low heat settings.
Saran hair is THE most common type of hair I find in Barbies. I don't own enough Fashion Royalty dolls to say whether or not it's common in them as well, but I find that my new FR2 Ayumi has saran hair. Saran hair is so common because... dun dun dun.. it's really cheap!! 
Dollyhair.com also sells pre-curled saran and nylon, but the pre-curled hair can get a little tangled as you do your reroot, so it's best reserved for experienced rerooters. This is a portal site, so that's it for the info here. I wanted to be able to offer a website with real and true information. 2) Nylon: Nylon is my favorite. It is used primarily by Hasbro (My Little Ponies), and it is also used by Ashton-Drake (Gene), as well as the vast majority of all other toys. Nylon is different from saran in that it does not have a greasy feel. It feels a lot like human hair, and it's a lot stronger than saran.
We received a new shipment of saran hair as of June 2015! Our new colors are golden brown, rusty auburn, mystic pink to peach, mystic lavender to blonde, mystic green to chartreuse, and mystic indigo to blue.. The length on the doll is the AVERAGE length of each plug. If you're going for a slightly layered look, that's where you would trim the hair once it's rooted. If you plan on cutting the hair all one length, plan on cutting it approximately 1/2 inch shorter than the length on doll.
saranhair.com has information about doll hair! saranhair.com is owned by Tina M. of Dollyhair.com, where you can buy all kinds of doll hair! There are many different kinds of doll hair: 2) Nylon: Nylon is my favorite. It is used primarily by Hasbro (My Little Ponies), and it is also used by Ashton-Drake (Gene), as well as the vast majority of all other toys. Nylon is different from saran in that it does not have a greasy feel. It feels a lot like human hair, and it's a lot stronger than saran.
Saran is a very common artificially produced fiber that was very popular for doll hair in the 1950s. Saran is usually rooted directly into the doll's scalp. An individual Saran hair fiber is a bit wiry and strong. When there's a whole headfull of these fibers, they produce a very thick head of doll hair. Saran doll hair is very strong and usually in pretty good condition, even after all of these years. It's very easy to clean using regular warm water and dish soap.
Saran (PVDC) is also used for high-quality doll hair that is valued by collectors for its shine and softness. However, because PVdC has a high specific gravity because of its high chlorine content, saran doll hair offers poor curl retention. When formed into a thin plastic film, the principal advantage of Saran, when compared to other plastics, is its very low permeability to water vapor, flavor and aroma molecules, and oxygen.
I find nylon hair is easier to work with, it's softer than saran and falls nicer. I believe nylon is easier to curl too, but maybe that's just me. Saran just sticks up when rehairing, and will only calm down after having boiling water poured over it. I prefer to use saran for my dolls though, because it seems thicker. Kanekelon: Kanekelon fibers are shiny, silky, and stiffer than saran or nylon. It is most often used for straight hair. Kanekelon fibers takes to styling moderately to poorly and will crimp or melt under high heat settings; however, it can be worked with on low heat settings.
Since its accidental discovery in 1933, Saran has been used for a number of commercial and industrial products. When formed into a thin plastic film, the principal advantage of Saran, when compared to other plastics, is its very low permeability to water vapor, flavor and aroma molecules, and oxygen.