Your intestines job is to absorb electrolytes and water so longer stool remains in there the dryer it gets. When your poop is dry it is hard to pass through the intestines therefor causing you to be stopped up..or constipated. If you are constipated your poop should not be watery at all! When you have diarrhea your body senses something bad inside of you so you have what is called a peristaltic rush where all you food is rushed through your body very quickly so your large intestine don't have time to absorb the water from your poop causing your to have watery poop or diarrhea!
Watery stool (type 7) or mushy stool (type 6) is an indication that the water content in the stool is higher than normal. On average, water should account for approximately 70% of the stool weight, With more fluid stool, the water content to solid matter content is significantly higher than normal. Watery stool is not diarrhea unless it meets with the following criteria 1  : more than 3 bowel movements in a day. On average, water should account for approximately 70% of the stool weight, With more fluid stool, the water content to solid matter content is significantly higher than normal. Watery stool is not diarrhea unless it meets with the following criteria :
What can your poop reveal about your health? The consistency, texture and color of your stool are helpful barometers of your well-being, so make sure to take a peek into the bowl. At least one bowel movement a day is healthy and shouldn’t hurt when it passes through the rectum. Though soft stools can be a signal of good health, frequent soft bowel movements could also be caused by a food intolerance, such as an excess amount of fructose in the diet or lactose intolerance. If this is the cause, you can try removing certain foods and drinks from your diet, and if it persists, see your doctor.
It may be alarming to see green poop in your toilet bowl, but it isn't necessarily a cause for concern. The color of your stools is often a reflection of what you eat. Black stools, for example, can result from eating blueberries or taking medications that contain bismuth subsalicylate, such as Pepto-Bismol. Sometimes, green poop is an indication of a health issue. For example, cancer patients who undergo a donor bone-marrow transplant may develop graft-versus-host disease, which is marked by a number of gastrointestinal symptoms, including watery, green diarrhea, according to the National Cancer Institute.
It is normal for formula-fed babies to produce thicker, bulkier poop than breastfed infants. 1  Diarrhea in infants is extremely watery and may leak past the diaper and onto your baby's back. 2  Solid bowel movements are a sign of constipation. 1. Figure out your stool's baseline color. The ideal poop is medium brown, but some variation can be found among healthy people. 1  Green or yellow stool is usually caused by your bowels moving too fast, as with mild diarrhea. 2  Bile, the main pigment in poop, starts out green and turns brown over time.
1 Eating beetroot, tomatoes, cranberries or red food colourants might make your stool to look red. 2  Green leafy vegetables or green food colourants can colour your stools green. 3  Medicines such as anticoagulants (red or black stools), 4  Loose, watery stools in diarrhoea. 1 Changes in diet (intake of fibre, fluids). 2  Eating beetroot, tomatoes, cranberries or red food colourants might make your stool to look red. 3  Green leafy vegetables or green food colourants can colour your stools green. 4  Medicines such as anticoagulants (red or black stools), 5
Although the color of stool can be affected by different foods and medications, it is typically brownish due to digestion of bile salts, digestive agents made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. A reduction or absence of bile salts can cause the stool to become yellow or pale. Yellow stool is unusual, and may be a symptom of a serious medical condition. Seek immediate medical care (call 911) for severe abdominal pain, stool with blood or pus, high fever (higher than 101 degrees Fahrenheit), significant vomiting, seizures, changes in mental status, or sudden behavior changes.