Quarterly. SA, 2009=100. The GDP Deflator measures the change in prices of final goods and services and it is considered as a key indicator for inflationary pressures, that provides insight into the future direction of monetary policy. . 
This convention shows why the GDP deflator can be thought of as a measure of the average price of all of the goods and services produced in an economy (relative to the base year prices used to calculate real GDP of course). 2 of 4 Show All. 1. Since the GDP deflator is a measure of aggregate prices, economists can calculate a measure of inflation by examining how the level of the GDP deflator changes over time.
Like the consumer price index (CPI), the GDP deflator is a measure of price inflation/deflation with respect to a specific base year; the GDP deflator of the base year itself is equal to 100. Unlike the CPI, the GDP deflator is not based on a fixed basket of goods and services; the basket for the GDP deflator is allowed to change from year to year with people's consumption and investment patterns.
GDP Deflator. Essentially, GDP Deflator is an adjustment for the impact of changes in prices on changes in nominal GDP. GDP Deflator can be considered the most comprehensive measure of inflation since a wide array of goods and services are included in its construction. GDP Deflator is the ratio of the value of aggregate final output at current market prices (Nominal GDP) to its value at the base year prices (Real GDP).
Definition. Gross Domestic Product deflator. A measure of the change in prices of goods newly produced within a country over the course of a specific time period. It is used in economics to account for inflation. When the deflator is used, it allows GDP to be compared to other time periods in constant dollars
An implicit price deflator is the ratio of the current-dollar value of a series, such as gross domestic product (GDP), to its corresponding chained-dollar value, multiplied by 100. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In economics, the GDP deflator (implicit price deflator) is a measure of the level of prices of all new, domestically produced, final goods and services in an economy. GDP stands for gross domestic product, the total value of all final goods and services produced within that economy during a specified period. Unlike the CPI, the GDP deflator is not based on a fixed basket of goods and services; the basket for the GDP deflator is allowed to change from year to year with people's consumption and investment patterns.
DEFINITION of 'GDP Price Deflator'. An economic metric that accounts for inflation by converting output measured at current prices into constant-dollar GDP. The GDP deflator shows how much a change in the base year's GDP relies upon changes in the price level. Also known as the GDP implicit price deflator.. Next Up.