Annualization is the process of spreading certificated employees’ annual salary equally over all pay periods in the fiscal year. Basically, an annualized employee works less than 12 months but their salary is spread over 12 months. Annualization is available only to certificated employees on B, C, D, E and K basis. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Annual salary is what you make in a year: $50,000 would equal $961.54 a week. you would take 50,000 and divide by 52, that tells the weekly salary of an employee. FYI, Salary individuals typically means they make a set amount regardless of hours worked it a week. $1000. a week salary would be $52,000 annual salary. The employee could work 40 hrs, 50 hrs, or even 30 hrs a week and they still make that $1000 week. 
What is the annual salary of a barber? It depends on the amount of money made According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics the estimated mean annual wage for barbers as of May 2008 is, $26,610. This would amoun … t to $12.79 per hour. Evidently, there are other considerations in terms of location, ownership, specialties, etc.
An annualized salary is useful for employees who do not work the full year, such as teachers, and for employees who work part of each year on a salaried basis. Annualization is the process of spreading the payments to the employee out over the entire year, though the salary is only earned for part of the year. When you pay employees, it helps to know what the cost is to you on an annualized, or yearly, basis. This figure is important for figuring your profits and for calculating your taxes. However, the terms annual and annualized have specific meanings in employment law, as do the terms earnings and salary..
The average salary that is achieved by aquaculturists is something to ponder upon. But if you want the answer than I can give it to you. They earn appx. $21.63 an hour and w … ork about 8-10 hours a day 6 days a week. It depends on the amount of money made According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics the estimated mean annual wage for barbers as of May 2008 is, $26,610. This would amoun … t to $12.79 per hour. Evidently, there are other considerations in terms of location, ownership, specialties, etc.
DEFINITION of 'Annualized Income'. An estimate of the amount of money that an individual, business or asset will earn over the course of a year. Annualized income is usually calculated with less than one year's worth of data, so it is only an estimate of how much income will actually be earned for the year. Nonetheless, annualized income figures can be helpful for creating budgets and making estimated income tax payments. Next Up.
Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Annualized Salary is the salary that an employee would have if he/she were to work full-time for an entire standard year. 
The annualized figure gives you an idea of what the employee would earn per year if she worked the same number of hours each week or month for the entire year. Example: if you pay an employee $1,000 for one month, then that figure represents annualized earnings of $12,000 per year. When you pay employees, it helps to know what the cost is to you on an annualized, or yearly, basis. This figure is important for figuring your profits and for calculating your taxes. However, the terms annual and annualized have specific meanings in employment law, as do the terms earnings and salary..
An annual salary is an agreement about the amount of pay for work over a 12 month period. They are often included in employment contracts. An employer and employee can agree that an annual salary covers entitlements like: 1  minimum weekly wages. 2  penalties. 3  overtime. 4  allowances. 5  annual leave loading. 