It really doesn’t take all that long to fall in love. So many people look at such a strong emotion as love in terms of time.
It has to do with the person who is falling in love. Even then, it is a matter of timing and circumstances. Two people may meet each other--and pass by each other, only to meet again later on and fall in love—but beyond that it cannot be explained.
People differ on the definition of love. Some say that you can fall in love in a moment, as in love at first sight. Others say it takes longer. While I’m sure that love at first sight does occur, I doubt that what people fall into at first is actual love (probably a severe lust would be a better description).
People who say that they fell in love at first sight; tell them that it was not love; it was just a casual liking, crush or infatuation. Don’t rush yourself into saying “I Love you” to the person you like. Take time, evaluate things and then decide whether you really love that person or is it just a liking.
It is said that love can happen in a fraction of seconds and sometimes it takes years to fall in love with someone. I personally believe that people who are soft-hearted, kind, shy in nature fall in love more easily. Whereas people who are more into the practical side of life take time to fall in love. Follow us on.
Best Answer: my man is was not in love with me in the first week. It takes time before a boy will ask you to be his gurl He has to see if hes feeling you or not it shouldnt take months but it might takea about two or three weeks. Thats how long i wait.
Yes, somebody actually studied this. The researchers reasoned that in general women have a more realistic view of relationships, and are thus, less likely to get carried away early on. On average, it takes a man about seven months to fall in love, while it takes cautious women a whole eight months.
But most of the time, even then, falling in love is not literally at first sight. Let me report one example of this experience: A man came to a party and immediately noticed a woman at the other end of the room. She was talking animatedly with a group of other young people.