Types of Stones and Equipment Needed: Basalt stones: The stones that are used in hot stone massage are usually basalt, a type of rock that has been smoothed by natural forces in the river or sea and also is rich in iron so that they absorb and retain heat well (Brown). Heater: 
Basalt a mafic extrusive rock, is the most widespread of all igneous rocks, and comprises more than 90% of all volcanic rocks. Because of its relatively low silica content, basalt lava has a comparatively low viscosity, and forms thin flows that can travel long distances. It is also found as intrusive dikes and sills. 
Basalt is one of the most common rock types in the world. Basalt is the rock most typical of large igneous provinces. The largest occurrences of basalt are in the ocean floor that is almost completely made up by basalt. Basalt which erupts under open air (that is, subaerially) forms three distinct types of lava or volcanic deposits: scoria; ash or cinder (breccia); and lava flows. Basalt in the tops of subaerial lava flows and cinder cones will often be highly vesiculated, imparting a lightweight frothy texture to the rock.
Home Basalt. Basalt is a volcanic stone that has been used in architecture for centuries. Basaltina, one of the premium basalts in Stone Source's catalog of materials, has a particularly rich history. It is quarried near Rome and was used by the ancient Romans to build roads and monuments. Examples of its uses in architecture can still be seen still today.
Basalt is used for a wide variety of purposes. It is most commonly crushed for use as an aggregate in construction projects. Crushed basalt is used for road base, concrete aggregate, asphalt pavement aggregate, railroad ballast, filter stone in drain fields and may other purposes. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type.
Geology of Basalt. A volcanic (igneous) stone that has been used in architecture for centuries and is thought to be one of the main components of oceanic crust. The fissures and small holes in the surface are evidence of the earth’s natural gasses flowing through and escaping from the stone. Basaltina, one of the premium basalts in Stone Source's catalog of materials, has a particularly rich history. It is quarried near Rome and was used by the ancient Romans to build roads and monuments. Examples of its uses in architecture can still be seen still today.
By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals. Basalt which erupts under open air (that is, subaerially) forms three distinct types of lava or volcanic deposits: scoria; ash or cinder (breccia); and lava flows. Basalt in the tops of subaerial lava flows and cinder cones will often be highly vesiculated, imparting a lightweight frothy texture to the rock.
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt
/bəˈsɔːlt/ , /ˈbaesɒlt/ , /ˈbæsɒlt/ , ˈbaesɔːlt /ˈbæsɔːlt/) or ˈbeɪsɔːlt is a common (extrusive) igneous volcanic rock formed from the rapid cooling of basaltic lava exposed at or very near the surface of a planet. Or moon flood basalt describes the formation in a series of lava. basalt flows Basalt which erupts under open air (that is, subaerially) forms three distinct types of lava or volcanic deposits: scoria; ash or cinder (breccia); and lava flows. Basalt in the tops of subaerial lava flows and cinder cones will often be highly vesiculated, imparting a lightweight frothy texture to the rock.