Answer key: CELL CITY INTRODUCTION! Floating around in the cytoplasm are small structures called. organelles. . Like the organs in your own body, each one carries out a specific function necessary for the cell to survive. Imagine the cells as a miniature city.
The nucleus is filled with protons and neutrons, usually depicted as spheres. you are thinking of a nucleus in an atom (chemistry). in biology, the rod-shaped structures inside the nucleus is the chromosome, the genetic material of the cell. They are rod shaped bodies that lie at right angles to each other; internally they are made up of fine microtubules. … Centrioles are best known for their role in generating microtubules, and during cell division, the centrioles diret the formation of the mitotic spindle. 2 people found this useful.
The cytoplasm is the most important part of the cell for carrying out life activities. The cytoplasm is protoplasm that surrounds the nucleus. Some of the tiny bodies found in the cytoplasm are quite interesting. Many of the discoveries concerning these tiny bodies or organelles are as new as the electron microscope. Nucleus. A very prominent body within the cell is the nucleus. The nucleus may take on different shapes and positions in the cell, but its purpose is the same. The cell headquarters which acts as a control center and the inheritor of traits associated with reproduction are centered in the nucleus
Nucleus Nucleolus Cytoplasm The control center of the cell and dictates what all of the other organelles do. Stores the DNA in eukaryotes. Dark spherical body found in the nucleus; makes the ribosomes. A jelly-like material that surrounds the cell organelles. 
1 An Overview of the Suprachiasmatic Nucleus The term suprachiasmatic nucleus refers to either one of two pairs of neuron clusters located in the hypothalamus. 2  The suprachiasmatic nuclei are right above the optic chiasm…. 3  Making Sense of Your Apple Shaped Body Dealing with an undesirable physical appearance can be taxing. They are rod shaped bodies that lie at right angles to each other; internally they are made up of fine microtubules. … Centrioles are best known for their role in generating microtubules, and during cell division, the centrioles diret the formation of the mitotic spindle. 2 people found this useful.
The particles are called electrons and they are negatively charged. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  An Overview of the Suprachiasmatic Nucleus The term suprachiasmatic nucleus refers to either one of two pairs of neuron clusters located in the hypothalamus. They are rod shaped bodies that lie at right angles to each other; internally they are made up of fine microtubules. … Centrioles are best known for their role in generating microtubules, and during cell division, the centrioles diret the formation of the mitotic spindle. 2 people
A double-layered membrane, the nuclear envelope, separates the contents of the nucleus from the cellular cytoplasm. The envelope is riddled with holes called nuclear pores that allow specific types and sizes of molecules to pass back and forth between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus.
the nucleus a large and rounded organelle is the control center of the cell in a cell that is not in the process of dividing the nucleus contains loosely coiled material called chromatin when a cell prepares to divide the chromatin becomes more tightly coiled and condenses to form rod shaped bodies called the chromosomes each chromosomes contains hundreds or thousands of genes which are the units of hereditary information that govern the structure and activity