The Declaration of Independence is a form of manifesto. There are artistic manifestos, philosophical manifestos, corporate manifestos, personal manifestos, and political manifestos. A religious manifesto is referred to as “a creed”. 1 Read other manifestos on a similar topic for useful tools and arguments. 2  Famous manifestos include: The Communist Manifesto by Karl Marx, I Have a Dream by Martin Luther King, or John F Kennedy's Man on the Moon.
Often, the document is political in nature, as is the case with the Communist Manifesto, although it can also be employed by artists and other collective groups as a medium of communication. In many instances, a manifesto is highly revolutionary, and is designed to stimulate public dialog. A manifesto is a document that sets forth the principles and goals of an organization.
A manifesto is a public declaration of intentions, usually by an organized group. A gang is a group that acts together, often for illegal purposes. 1 person found this useful. Edit. A manifesto is a paper written to explain what you're all about-and why you believe that way. Or perhaps what your plan or intentions are. If you developed a purpose and direction statement for your life, it would be a manifesto
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. A manifesto is a document that sets forth the principles and goals of an organization. Typically, it is designed to be widely distributed to the public, and it serves as an official declaration
(January 2015). A manifesto is a published verbal declaration of the intentions, motives, or views of the issuer, be it an individual, group, political party or government. It is derived from the Italian word manifesto, itself derived from the Latin manifestum, meaning clear or conspicuous. Its first recorded use in English is from 1620, in Nathaniel Brent 's translation of Paolo Sarpi 's History of the Council of Trent : . To this citation he made answer by a Manifesto  (p. 102)
The Benefits of a Manifesto. What makes a manifesto so valuable is the fact that it is a constant source of inspiration to you, and one that can often be easily read every day. I may completely agree with, say, the Bible, but reading it in its entirety every day would be cumbersome. A Manifesto: Defined. The word manifesto traces its roots to the Latin manifestum, which means clear or conspicuous. A manifesto is defined as a declaration of one’s beliefs, opinions, motives, and intentions. It is simply a document that an organization or person writes that declares what is important to them. A manifesto functions as both a statement of principles and a bold, sometimes rebellious, call to action
ANSWER: The Communist Manifesto is a declaration of the intentions of a communist organization. In the Manifesto you will find a detailed and succinct explanation of the ideas that form the basis of communist and socialist ideologies. Written in 1848, it has survived as an important historical document.