Plants are self-sufficient. They make their own food thru the process of photosynthesis using light energy to make sugars from carbon dioxide (C0 2) and water (H 2 0). The three major functions that are basic to plant growth and development are: Photosynthesis. A primary difference between plants and animals is the plant s ability to manufacture its own food. In photosynthesis carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil react with the sun s energy to form carbohydrates (sugars and starches).
Photosynthesis, Respiration, Transpiration Plants are self-sufficient. They make their own food thru the process of photosynthesis using light energy to make sugars from carbon dioxide (C02) and water (H20). Photosynthesis. A primary difference between plants and animals is the plant s ability to manufacture its own food. In photosynthesis carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil react with the sun s energy to form carbohydrates (sugars and starches).
Photosynthesis vs. the Food Chain. Ultimately, the source of all food on this planet is autotrophs. Plants use light energy to produce food chemicals, and the light energy is thus stored in the bonds of the food molecules. Plants and animals use this stored bond energy as fuel for their cells. If the sun stopped radiating light, first the autotrophic plants would die, followed by all of the heterotrophic animals
Confidence votes 15.0K. Community Manager-Staance. Photosynthesis (photo = light and synthesis = to make) is the process plants use to change carbon dioxide and water into sugar using sunlight. This sugar, glucose, is their food, and the process gives off oxygen. Photosynthesis is the conversion of light energy into chemical energy by living organisms. The raw materials are carbon dioxide and water. The energy source is sunlight, and the end-products include glucose and oxygen. Photosynthetic organisms are also referred to as autotrophs. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things.
Plants are capable of manufacturing food through a process known as photosynthesis. The process involves taking one form of energy -- sunlight -- and changing it to another form of energy -- sugar -- that the plant can use more readily. 
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. 
Plants make food in their leaves. The leaves contain a pigment called chlorophyll, which colors the leaves green. Chlorophyll can make food the plant can use from carbon dioxide, water, nutrients, and energy from sunlight. This process is called photosynthesis. During the process of photosynthesis, plants release oxygen into the air. People and animals need oxygen to breathe