Table sugar is made up of equal amounts of the simple sugars glucose and fructose, which are joined together by chemical bonds. Starches and fiber are made up of many simple sugars joined together chemically. Any carbohydrate that is made up of more than two simple sugars is referred to as a polysaccharide. Fruits, vegetables, grain foods, and many dairy products naturally contain carbohydrates in varying amounts, including sugars, which are a type of carbohydrate that can add taste appeal to a nutritious diet. Carbohydrate Classification. Carbohydrates encompass a broad range of sugars, starches, and fiber.
Carbohydrates are organic compounds that contain single, double, or multiple sugar units. Simple sugars are only one or two sugar units long and are typically sweet tasting whereas complex carbohydrates are thousands of sugar units long and have a starchy taste. For more information about the chemistry of carbs, see Biology Online.
Disaccharides are two simple sugar molecules that are chemically attached. Types of disaccharides include sucrose, lactose and maltose. Composed of glucose and fructose, sucrose is better known as table sugar. Lactose is also referred to as milk sugar and is made up of glucose and galactose. Two glucose molecules make up the disaccharide maltose, which is created through fermentation when making bread or beer.
Starches that have had the bran, hull and fiber removed from the grain during processing. Examples of foods that are refined starches include white flour, white bread, white pasta, white rice and cereals that contain little to no fiber. 
There are three types of carbohydrates: starch, sugar and fiber. Starches and sugars provide your body with its main source of energy. They're all comprised of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, which are organized into single units. Again, sucrose is just table sugar, and it occurs naturally in several fruits, grains and vegetables. Lactose is also a natural sugar, and it can be found in milk and other dairy products. Maltose forms naturally when starches break down from complex carbohydrates into simple sugars.
Sugars and starches are, in fact, not lipids, but rather carbohydrates. Of the four biological macro molecules (carbohydrates/polysaccharides, proteins, nucleic acids, and lip … ids), lipids are hydrophobic (not water soluble), less easily metabolized, and waxy or slippery to the touch. they are examples of organic compounds called carbohydrates... carbohydrates can be complex like polysaccharides..example is starch. or carbohydrates can simple like monosacch … arides or disaccharides...example is sugar.
Maltose: glucose and glucose. Again, sucrose is just table sugar, and it occurs naturally in several fruits, grains and vegetables. Lactose is also a natural sugar, and it can be found in milk and other dairy products. Maltose forms naturally when starches break down from complex carbohydrates into simple sugars.
1 Glucose is produced when carbohydrates are digested or metabolized. 2  Glucose is sometimes referred to as dextrose. 3  Starch is comprised of long chains of glucose. 4  Glucose make up exactly half of the sugar in sucrose and nearly half of the sugar in high fructose corn syrup. Fruits, vegetables, grain foods, and many dairy products naturally contain carbohydrates in varying amounts, including sugars, which are a type of carbohydrate that can add taste appeal to a nutritious diet. Carbohydrate Classification. Carbohydrates encompass a broad range of sugars, starches, and fiber.
The carbohydrates are the compounds which provide energy to living cells. They are compounds of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen with a ratio of two hydrogens for every oxygen atom. The carbohydrates we use as foods have their origin in the photosynthesis of plants. They take the form of sugars, starches, and cellulose. The name carbohydrate means watered carbon or carbon with attached water molecules. Many carbohydrates have empirical formuli which would imply about equal numbers of carbon and water molecules.
Carbohydrates are your body's main source of energy and should provide most of your daily calorie intake. Fruit, grains and milk are sources of carbohydrates, as are table sugar, cake and soda. The type of carbohydrates found in these foods varies and includes starches and sugars. Composed of glucose and fructose, sucrose is better known as table sugar. Lactose is also referred to as milk sugar and is made up of glucose and galactose. Two glucose molecules make up the disaccharide maltose, which is created through fermentation when making bread or beer.