The University of Texas at Dallas utilizes a consolidated tuition rate, which is capped at 15 semester credit hours for all students. The consolidated tuition and fee rates cover all academic program costs; including tuition, mandatory fees, and most of the college and course incidental fees. Students may elect an installment plan to pay tuition and fees for the full term fall, spring, and eleven week summer semesters. The installment payment plan, authorized under Section 54.007, Texas Education Code, allows the student to pay their tuition and fee balance in three equal payments.
View the tuition and fee schedule for guaranteed tuition rates. The UT Dallas Guaranteed Tuition Plan promises to lock your tuition rate and mandatory fees for the four-year period beginning with your registration. Tuition is charged on an hourly rate up to 15 hours for Texas residents.
New tuition rates become effective with the Fall term unless noted. Tuition is based on total number of credit hours taken per academic semester. 1  Fall 2014 - Spring 2015 Undergraduate Tuition and Fees. 2  Fall 2014 - Spring 2015 Graduate Tuition and Fees. 3  Summer 2015 Undergraduate Tuition and Fees. 4  Summer 2015 Graduate Tuition and Fees. 5  Fall 2015 - Spring 2016 Undergraduate Tuition and Fees
Undergraduate Tuition. The University of Texas at Dallas tuition is $10,864 per year for in-state residents. This is 69% more expensive than the national average public four year tuition of $6,429. The cost is $3,696 and 25% cheaper than the average Texas tuition of $14,560 for 4 year colleges. The net out-of-pocket total cost you end up paying or financing though student loans is known as the net price. The reported UT Dallas net price for in-state students $8,064* for the 2013/2014 academic year. This net price includes housing and meal expenses.
Tuition at UT Dallas is on a sliding scale. The more semester credit hours you take a semester, the cheaper the semester credit hours will be (see chart below). Students taking online courses will pay $80 per semester credit hour distance learning fee in addition to regular semester credit hour fees. Payment plans for tuition and short-term loans are available. For more information, please visit UT Dallas Bursar’s Offic
The University of Texas at Dallas utilizes a consolidated tuition rate, which is capped at 15 semester credit hours for all students. The consolidated tuition and fee rates cover all academic program costs; including tuition, mandatory fees, and most of the college and course incidental fees. For residents of Oklahoma, tuition is the Texas resident rate shown plus thirty dollars ($30.00) per semester credit hour. Oklahoma residents must apply for this tuition waiver each semester through the Office of Financial Aid.
Charges per semester credit hour for tuition and mandatory fees at UT Dallas depend on the number of hours for which a student enrolls up to 15. Non-resident students from out of state pay a differential rate per credit hour. The UT Dallas Guaranteed Tuition Plan promises to lock your tuition rate and mandatory fees for the four-year period beginning with your registration. Tuition is charged on an hourly rate up to 15 hours for Texas residents.
Tuition & Fees. The average cost of tuition and fees based on 12 hours per semester enrollment for undergraduate students and nine hours for graduate students (fall or spring), or nine hours of enrollment for undergraduate students and three hours for graduate students (summer). Definitions. The average cost of tuition and fees based on 12 hours per semester enrollment for undergraduate students and nine hours for graduate students (fall or spring), or nine hours of enrollment for undergraduate students and three hours for graduate students (summer).
The charges per semester credit hour for tuition and mandatory fees at UT Dallas depend on the number of semester credit hours for which a student enrolls. Other User Fees for courses and services including, for example, parking, and housing fees, are subject to change. Students may elect an installment plan to pay tuition and fees for the full term fall, spring, and eleven week summer semesters. The installment payment plan, authorized under Section 54.007, Texas Education Code, allows the student to pay their tuition and fee balance in three equal payments.