The standard metered-dose inhaler includes the blue inhaler (e.g. Ventolin) and has been used for several decades. It consists of a small can fitted into a plastic body with a mouthpiece. Each time you press the canister into the boot, one dose of drug is released. You need to press and inhale the medication. Blue inhalers are great short-acting treatments: they can relieve the symptoms of an asthma attack within minutes. They are also commonly used as a long-term treatment, following a specific prescription; e.g. 2-3 doses a day for a certain period of time (at least several months).
This helps to open up the airways and helps to relieve chest tightness, wheezing, and cough so that your child can breathe more easily. It is called a bronchodilator or a reliever medicine. Salbutamol also helps prevent shortness of breath and wheezing during exercise, i.e. exercise-induced asthma. You may hear salbutamol called by its brand names, Ventolin or Airomir. Salbutamol comes in an inhaler, dry powder inhaler (i.e. Diskus), respirator solution, and nebules
1 If you are using other inhalers at the same time, use the salbutamol inhaler first and then wait for a few minutes before using the other inhalers. 2  Salbutamol opens your air passages to allow the other inhalers to work more effectively. 3  Carefully read your asthma action plan from your nurse or doctor. For these reasons, before you start using a salbutamol inhaler it is important that your doctor knows: 1  If you are pregnant, trying for a baby or breast-feeding. 2  This is because it is particularly important that your breathing is well controlled if you are pregnant.
Ventolin is the most commonly used inhaler, taken to quickly relax the airways when an asthma attack begins. Ventolin is a reliever inhaler that works by opening up the airways in your lungs, allowing you to breathe more easily. It quickly stops symptoms of wheezing and breathlessness, but only works for a few hours. For those with mild asthma, Ventolin is usually all that is necessary to ensure an asthma-free lifestyle. A preventer inhaler (usually brown, orange, or purple) protects against asthma triggers, while a reliever inhaler (usually blue) is used to treat your symptoms when they occur. A preventer inhaler is used daily, containing medicines which prevent inflammation in the airways of your lungs.
Best Answer: Inhaler therapy for asthma can be slightly confusing. It is important that you understand what your different inhalers contain, how they work and when to use them. A blue inhaler contains a short-acting reliever of symptoms (most commonly salbutamol). Salbutamol acts on beta-receptors of the bronchial airways of your lungs. These airways constrict during an asthma attack. Now to your purple inhaler. Purple inhalers are combination inhalers. They contain a long-acting reliever (like salmeterol) and a steroid preventer (like fluticasone propionate). The long acting reliever acts on the same receptors that salbutamol acts on, but they bind for much longer.
Salbutamol (INN) or albuterol (USAN) is a short-acting β2-adrenergic receptor agonist used for the relief of bronchospasm in conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It is marketed as Ventolin among other brand names. Salbutamol was the first selective β 2 -receptor agonist to be marketed in 1968. It was first sold by Allen & Hanburys (UK) under the brand name Ventolin, and has been used for the treatment of asthma ever since. It was approved for use in the US by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in May 1982.
Ventolin (salbutamol). Ventolin is the standard blue reliever inhaler used by asthma sufferers. It contains a quick-acting medicine that stops an asthma attack when it occurs. You can order Ventolin inhalers for delivery or collection from our online clinic, without having to see a doctor face to face. A preventer inhaler (usually brown, orange, or purple) protects against asthma triggers, while a reliever inhaler (usually blue) is used to treat your symptoms when they occur. A preventer inhaler is used daily, containing medicines which prevent inflammation in the airways of your lungs.
Asthma inhalers come in various colours and shapes for different uses. Each colour indicates a different type of medication. The famous blue inhaler (Ventolin) for example contains Salbutamol to treat acute asthma symptoms. Blue inhalers are great short-acting treatments: they can relieve the symptoms of an asthma attack within minutes. They are also commonly used as a long-term treatment, following a specific prescription; e.g. 2-3 doses a day for a certain period of time (at least several months).