The name radium comes from a Latin word radius, which means ray. It was named this because the chemists found that photographic effects were similar at light rays.
History and Uses: Radium was discovered by Marie Sklodowska Curie, a Polish chemist, and Pierre Curie, a French chemist, in 1898. Marie Curie obtained radium from pitchblende, a material that contains uranium, after noticing that unrefined pitchblende was more radioactive than the uranium that was separated from it.
Origin of name: from the Latin word  radius  meaning  ray . Radium was discovered in 1898 by Marie and Pierre Curie in pitchblende (or uraninite) from North Bohemia. The element was isolated in 1911 by Mme. Curie and Debierne by the electrolysis of a solution of pure radium chloride, employing a mercury cathode.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The name radium comes from a Latin word radius, which means ray. It was named this because the chemists found that photographic effects were similar at light rays.
1 The element curium is named for the discoverers of radium. 2  Marie Curie also discovered the element polonium while experimenting with pitchblende. 3  Before the dangers of radiation were understood, radium was called the wonder metal because it gave off heat and light.
Radium was discovered in 1898 by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie. They managed to extract 1 mg of radium from ten tonnes of the uranium ore pitchblende (uranium oxide, U 3 O 8), a considerable feat, given the chemically methods of separation available to them.
Radium, in the form of radium chloride, was discovered by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie in 1898. They extracted the radium compound from uraninite and published the discovery at the French Academy of Sciences five days later.
Now, in radium – in the form of radium bromide – they had discovered a further radioactive element whose chemistry was very similar to that of group II metal barium. Metallic radium was first isolated in 1910 by Marie Curie and Andre Debierne by the electrolysis of a solution of pure radium chloride.