The supply of goods and services do not increase at an equal level as the supply of money. High Inflation is a condition in which the prices of goods and services reach an all time high. The prices of goods and services increase rapidly under such a circumstance, faster than the remuneration of people.
Price levels provide a snapshot of prices at a given time, making it possible to review changes in the broad price level over time. As prices rise (inflation), or fall (deflation), consumer demand for goods is also affected, which leads broad production measures like gross domestic product (GDP) higher or lower.
The price level during the high inflation period shoots up very high. But the increase in prices does not assure the increase in the production of goods and services. Instead the demand of goods increase and the supply decrease. The supply of money also increases.
Inflation is defined as a sustained increase in the general level of prices for goods and services. It is measured as an annual percentage increase. As inflation rises, every dollar you own buys a smaller percentage of a good or service. The value of a dollar does not stay constant when there is inflation.
As prices for goods and services that we consume increase, inflation is the result. The inflation rate is used to measure the rate of change in the overall price level of goods and services that we typically consume.
If the amount of money in a country-the money supply-grows faster than production in that country, the average price will rise as a result of the increased demand for goods and services. Inflation can also be caused by higher costs being charged on to the end-user.
The price level is usually examined through a basket of goods approach, in which a collection of consumer-based goods and services are examined in aggregate; changes in the aggregate price over time will push the index measuring the basket of goods higher.
Inflation occurs when the prices of goods and services increase over time. Inflation cannot be measured by an increase in the cost of one product or service, or even several products or services. Rather, inflation is a general increase in the overall price level of the goods and services in the economy.