'You Belong To Me' is also a song published in 1952. The first female to sing it was Sue Thompson. It has also been sung by Patti Page, Jo Stafford and Patsy Cline. Most recently, it was sung on the 'Mona Lisa Smile' soundtrack by Tori Amos and on the 'Planet Terror' soundtrack by Rose McGowan. 
The song has also appeared on many movie soundtracks. A version by Jason Wade was part of the soundtrack to the 2001 animated film Shrek. Rocker Tori Amos also sang the classic for the Julia Roberts film Mona Lisa Smile in 2003. The original version of the song was recorded by Sue Thompson on Mercury's country label. It was soon covered by Patti Page, whose version was issued by Mercury, with I Went to Your Wedding (a bigger Patti Page hit, reaching #1) on the flip side.
Off the 1978 album, Boys in the Trees, this song was co-written by Carly Simon and Michael McDonald (of The Doobie Brothers), who also has recorded the song. Play on youtube. 
You Belong to Me is credited to three writers: Pee Wee King, Chilton Price and Redd Stewart. Price, a songwriting librarian at WAVE Radio Louisville, had written the song in its virtual entirety as Hurry Home to Me envisioning the song as an American woman's plea to a sweetheart serving overseas in World War II. Afforded songwriting credit on the song mostly in exchange for their work in promoting it, King and Stewart did slightly adjust Price's composition musically and lyrically, shifting the focus from a wartime background into a kind of universal song about separated lovers and changing the title to You Belong to Me..
This was written in 1952 by Chilton Price, Redd Stewart and Pee Wee King. Stewart was the lead singer of Pee Wee King's Golden West Cowboys, who were a popular Country act and regulars at the Grand Ole Opry. The original version of the song was recorded by Sue Thompson on Mercury's country label. It was soon covered by Patti Page, whose version was issued by Mercury, with I Went to Your Wedding (a bigger Patti Page hit, reaching #1) on the flip side.
You Belong to Me  is a romantic pop music ballad from the 1950s. The singer reminds his or her beloved love interest, soulmate, or sweetheart that whatever exotic locales and sights he/she experiences, you belong to me no matter what happens. Afforded songwriting credit on the song mostly in exchange for their work in promoting it, King and Stewart did slightly adjust Price's composition musically and lyrically, shifting the focus from a wartime background into a kind of universal song about separated lovers and changing the title to You Belong to Me..
a _lot_ of people sang / recorded this song. Back in the 50's, you had profession song-writers (who weren't singers of note themselves) who wrote a song, and then a lot of singers would pick up the song if they felt it was likely to be a hit. Even a lot of Elvis songs were written by other people. Anyway, You Belong to Me was written by a lady called Chilton Price (though the songwriting credits are shared with King and Stewart). The original version of the song was recorded by Sue Thompson. The first 'Billboard Hit' version was recorded by Patti Page in 1952. The biggest hit version of this song was recorded by Jo Stafford. Since then a lot of famous people have covered it, including Dean Martin, Patsy Cline and Bing Crosby
Simon's version has been featured on the soundtracks to the romantic comedy films Desperately Seeking Susan (1985) and Little Black Book (2004), as well as being featured on many compilation albums of her work. 1 It was recorded in Finnish by Finnish singer Maarit for her 1978 album Siivet saan, retitled Yhteen kuulutaan. 2  Los Hooligans, a traditional ska band from Fresno, California, covered the song on their Mafioso Ska CD released in 2006 with lead vocals sung by Randy Young.
Originally recorded by McDonald's rock group The Doobie Brothers for their seventh studio album, Livin' on the Fault Line (1977), the song was made famous by Simon herself when she recorded it for her seventh studio album, Boys in the Trees (1978). 1 It was recorded in Finnish by Finnish singer Maarit for her 1978 album Siivet saan, retitled Yhteen kuulutaan. 2  Los Hooligans, a traditional ska band from Fresno, California, covered the song on their Mafioso Ska CD released in 2006 with lead vocals sung by Randy Young.
Jo Stafford singing You Belong To Me. Please Rate and Comment! 