Tips. 1  To delete a drop-down box, click the cell containing the box. 2  To delete a drop-down list, select the cell with the list. 3  Click the Data tab of the Microsoft Excel 2007 ribbon. 4  Click the Data Validation button from the Data Tools group.
When you create a drop-down list for a cell, it displays an arrow in that cell. To enter information in that cell, click the arrow, and then click the entry that you want. To create a drop-down list from a range of cells, use the Data Validation command in the Data Tools group on the Data tab.
To add this drop-down list to a sheet, do the following: 1  Create the list in cells A1:A4. 2  Similarly, you can enter the items in a single row, such as A1:D1. 3  Select cell E3. ( 4 You can position the drop-down list in most any cell or even multiple cells.). 5  Choose Validation from the Data menu.
1 To delete a drop-down box, click the cell containing the box. 2  To delete a drop-down list, select the cell with the list. 3  Click the Data tab of the Microsoft Excel 2007 ribbon. 4  Click the Data Validation button from the Data Tools group.
Drop-down List. Drop-down lists in Excel are helpful if you want to be sure that users select an item from a list, instead of typing their own values. 1. On the second sheet, type the items you want to appear in the drop-down list. 2. On the first sheet, select cell B1. 3. On the Data tab, click Data Validation.
Select the cell where you want the drop-down list. On the Data tab, in the Data Tools group, click Data Validation. Issue: The Data Validation command is unavailable. An Excel table may be linked to a SharePoint site You cannot add data validation to an Excel table that is linked to a SharePoint site.
To add this drop-down list to a sheet, do the following: 1  Create the list in cells A1:A4. 2  Select cell E3. 3  Choose Validation from the Data menu. 4  Choose List from the Allow option's drop-down list. 5  Click the Source control and drag to highlight the cells A1:A4. 6  Make sure the In-Cell Dropdown option is checked. 7  Click OK.
In the Data Validation window, on the Settings tab, do the following: 1  In the Allow box, select List. 2  In the Source box, type the items you want to appear in your drop-down menu separated by a comma (with or without spaces). 3  Make sure the In-cell dropdown box is checked.
Create a drop-down list. You can make a worksheet more efficient by providing drop-down lists. Someone using your worksheet clicks an arrow, and then clicks an entry in the list. On a new worksheet, type the entries that you want to appear in your
Create a drop-down list in Excel, so that others can select from a list of options to populate a cell, using a feature called a Data Validation. 1  Select cells in which you want the drop-down list to appear.