Tencel fabric is an amazing eco friendly fabric that represents a milestone in the development of environmentally sustainable textiles. Tencel is a natural, man made fibre which is also referred to as Lyocell. Made with wood pulp from sustainable tree farms, tencel textiles are created though the use of nanotechnology in an award-winning closed-loop process that recovers or decomposes all solvents and emissions. 1 Eco Print Made from the natural cellulose found in wood pulp. 2  The fiber is economical in its use of energy and natural resources, and is fully biodegradable. 3  Colour Rich Tencel was created with color in mind, because of the fibers’ high absorbency. 4  The fabrics can be dyed to high quality standards.
Lyocell is a form of rayon which consists of regenerated cellulose fiber made from dissolving pulp (bleached wood pulp) using dry jet-wet spinning. It was developed beginning in 1972 by a team at the now defunct American Enka fibers facility at Enka, NC. As of 2010, Lyocell is more expensive to produce than cotton or viscose rayon. It is used in many everyday fabrics. Staple fibres are used in clothes such as denim, chino, underwear, casual wear, and towels.
NMMO monohydrate is used as a solvent in the Lyocell process to produce Tencel fiber. 1  Lyocell is considered an eco friendly biodegradable fabric ‘ composed of cellulose precipitated from an organic solution in which no substitution of the hydroxyl groups takes place and no chemical intermediates are formed (Source). 1 Eco Print Made from the natural cellulose found in wood pulp. 2  The fiber is economical in its use of energy and natural resources, and is fully biodegradable. 3  Colour Rich Tencel was created with color in mind, because of the fibers’ high absorbency. 4  The fabrics can be dyed to high quality standards.
The US Federal Trade Commission defines Lyocell as a fiber composed of cellulose precipitated from an organic solution in which no substitution of the hydroxyl groups takes place and no chemical intermediates are formed. It classifies the fiber as a sub-category of rayon. As of 2010, Lyocell is more expensive to produce than cotton or viscose rayon. It is used in many everyday fabrics. Staple fibres are used in clothes such as denim, chino, underwear, casual wear, and towels.
Lyocell is a manmade fiber derived from cellulose, better known in the United States under the brand name Tencel. Though it is related to rayon, another cellulosic fabric, lyocell is created by a solvent spinning technique, and the cellulose undergoes no significant chemical change. 
Lyocell is the generic name for a biodegradable fabric that's made out of treated wood pulp. It's commonly sold under the brand name Tencel®, which is made by Lenzing AG. Known for its versatility, durability, and strength when both wet and dry, this material is used in everything from clothing to cars. 
Advantages of Tencel Fabric. 1  Eco Print Made from the natural cellulose found in wood pulp. 2  The fiber is economical in its use of energy and natural resources, and is fully biodegradable. 3  Colour Rich Tencel was created with color in mind, because of the fibers’ high absorbency. 1 Eco Print Made from the natural cellulose found in wood pulp. 2  The fiber is economical in its use of energy and natural resources, and is fully biodegradable. 3  Colour Rich Tencel was created with color in mind, because of the fibers’ high absorbency. 4  The fabrics can be dyed to high quality standards.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Tencel® is the registered trade name for a type of lyocell, a biodegradable material made from wood pulp cellulose. Fabric sold under the this brand specifically is manufactured by Lenzing AG. To make Tencel® wood chips are mixed with a solvent to produce a wet mixture. This is then pushed through small holes to form threads. These are chemically treated, lubricated, and then combed and cut into usable lengths. The lengths of fiber are then spun into yarn and woven into cloth.
TENCEL® is the lyocell fiber from the house of Lenzing. It is of botanic origin, since it is extracted from the raw material wood. Fiber production itself is extremely ecofriendly, due to the closed loop system. On the day that the fiber TENCEL® was invented, a new chapter was written in the history of fibers. 