Use a medium setting heat on the grill. Let the brats cook for a few minutes on one side. Turn them over and let them cook for a few more minutes. If you have not poached or boiled the brats before grilling them, then you’ll need to grill them for about 25 minutes total. Remove the brats from the grill. Use a pair of tongs to remove the brats and place them on a plate. Do not use the same plate that held the raw bratwurst, so that you don’t risk cross-contamination. Check the internal temperature with a meat thermometer to make sure they are around 160 °F (71 °C).
BOOKS. How to Grill the Perfect Brats. brought to you by BBQ U & Johnsonville Brats. I n backyards across North America, grillers are facing a dilemma of epic proportions: How to perfectly and consistently grill bratwurst-that bold and juicy sausage with unique flavor, loyal enthusiasts and rich grilling tradition. After par-poaching the brats, grill them until brown (about 4-6 minutes on each side) turning with only tongs. Piercing the casing with a fork is a big no-no! Poking a brat will release the juices and result in a dried-out brat. Brats can also be lightly brushed with oil before putting them on the grill.
Use the heat of the grill to poach the bratwurst before putting them directly on the grill. Get a disposable aluminum pan at the grocery store. 1  Put your bratwurst in these, along with some chopped onion, red or green peppers, or other vegetables. 2  You can also put a bed of sauerkraut in the bottom of the aluminum pan. Remove the brats from the grill. Use a pair of tongs to remove the brats and place them on a plate. Do not use the same plate that held the raw bratwurst, so that you don’t risk cross-contamination. Check the internal temperature with a meat thermometer to make sure they are around 160 °F (71 °C).
How you grill a bratwurst has much to do with whether it’s fresh or precooked. To prepare a precooked bratwurst, all you need to do is heat it up and serve. In contrast, you’ll have to follow a specific set of instructions if you plan to grill up a fresh bratwurst. The final thing to do is to grill the bratwurst directly over the grill’s heat until it has turned brown and is cooked through, which usually takes about 10 minutes. You should turn the bratwurst approximately halfway into the grilling time.
1 Bratwurst Sandwiches. 2  Prepare barbecue grill for direct cooking. 3  Pour one can or bottle of beer into a heavy saucepan with ovenproof handle. 4  If the saucepan is not ovenproof, wrap heavy-duty foil around the handle. 5  Set saucepan on one side of preheated grid. 1 Prepare barbecue grill for direct cooking. 2  Pour one can or bottle of beer into a heavy saucepan with ovenproof handle. 3  If the saucepan is not ovenproof, wrap heavy-duty foil around the handle. 4
1 Preheat gas grill to medium-low. ( 2 If charcoal, allow it to burn until white ash has formed on the coals.). 3  Place links on grill and use tongs to turn links often. 4  Grill covered for 15-20 minutes or until cooked through and browned. 1 Cook over medium-high heat until browned, about 5 minutes, turning links often. 2  Reduce heat to medium-low. 3  Carefully add ½ cup water to skillet. 4  Cover and simmer for 12 minutes or until cooked through.
Discard beer. Grill bratwurst, on covered grill, 9 to 10 minutes or until browned and cooked through, turning halfway through grilling time. Hot Tip!If desired, bratwurst may be simmered on the range top instead of on the grill. Bring the beer to a boil over medium-high heat. Carefully add the bratwurst to beer. 1 Prepare barbecue grill for direct cooking. 2  Pour one can or bottle of beer into a heavy saucepan with ovenproof handle. 3  If the saucepan is not ovenproof, wrap heavy-duty foil around the handle. 4  Set saucepan on one side of preheated grid.
Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat an outdoor grill for high heat and lightly oil grate. 2  Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat, cook and stir the sliced onions for 5 to 10 minutes, or until tender and translucent. 3  Add the chopped garlic and cook, stirring, for an additional 2 minutes. 
Grill. 1  Preheat gas grill to medium-low. 2  Place links on grill and use tongs to turn links often. 3  Grill covered for 15-20 minutes or until cooked through and browned. 1 Cook over medium-high heat until browned, about 5 minutes, turning links often. 2  Reduce heat to medium-low. 3  Carefully add ½ cup water to skillet. 4  Cover and simmer for 12 minutes or until cooked through.
Next, allow the beef to simmer on an uncovered grill for approximately 15 minutes over medium coals or medium heat on a gas grill. It’s important to turn the bratwurst over once during this period. After 15 minutes or so, remove the bratwurst from the saucepan. The final thing to do is to grill the bratwurst directly over the grill’s heat until it has turned brown and is cooked through, which usually takes about 10 minutes. You should turn the bratwurst approximately halfway into the grilling time. Print