Lactose intolerance is the inability to digest lactose, the sugar primarily found in milk and dairy products. It is caused by a shortage in the body of lactase, an enzyme produced by the small intestine, which is needed to digest lactose. While lactose intolerance is not dangerous, its symptoms can be distressing. Foods that contain whey, curds, milk by-products, dry milk solids, and nonfat dry milk also contain lactose. Lactose is also present in about 20% of prescription medications, such as birth control pills (oral contraceptives), and about 6% of over-the-counter medications, such as some tablets for stomach acid and gas.
The most common foods that are high in lactose include dairy products such as milk, ice cream, and cheese. Lactose is also added to some foods, such as bread and baked goods, cereals, salad dressings, candies, and snacks. Foods that contain whey, curds, milk by-products, dry milk solids, and nonfat dry milk also contain lactose. Lactose is also present in about 20% of prescription medications, such as birth control pills (oral contraceptives), and about 6% of over-the-counter medications, such as some tablets for stomach acid and gas.
Remember that true allergies to proteins found in milk, casein or whey proteins such as lactalbumin or lactoglobulin, can be very serious. People with such allergies should must usually avoid all milk or dairy products or foods that may contain milk protein, such as nondairy coffee creamers. People with milk allergies should not use Coffee-mate or other nondairy coffee creamers if they contain caseinate, a milk derivative. 1 Butter-Technically people with allergies to milk are allergic to the proteins in milk. 2  Butter is the fat from milk and, at this time, there are no known intolerances to fat in milk. 3  However, most butter has traces of milk protein in it.
Don't get lactose intolerance confused with a milk allergy. They're not the same thing. Lactose intolerance is when you can't digest lactose, the sugar found in dairy products. You'll often get symptoms like stomach pain, gas, and diarrhea. With a milk allergy, the symptoms affect more than just your digestive tract. A. Use this list to check food labels for cow's milk or milk products. Also, ask your doctor if sheep and goat's milk are safe. For most people with a milk allergy, the answer is no -- the proteins in sheep and goat’s milk are similar to those in cow’s milk and also cause a reaction.
Although they say nondairy on the label, it is important for milk allergy sufferers to be aware that they may contain dairy derivatives, which could cause an allergic reaction in some people with dairy allergies. Coffee-mate brand nondairy creamers contain sodium casseinate which is a form of protein from milk. 1 Butter-Technically people with allergies to milk are allergic to the proteins in milk. 2  Butter is the fat from milk and, at this time, there are no known intolerances to fat in milk. 3  However, most butter has traces of milk protein in it.
1 Dairy products are an important source of calcium, protein, and vitamins D and B12. 2  If you or your child has a milk allergy, foods such as broccoli, spinach, and soy products can help fill the void. 3  A registered dietitian can help you develop a well-balanced eating plan. 4  Try dairy substitutes. A. Use this list to check food labels for cow's milk or milk products. Also, ask your doctor if sheep and goat's milk are safe. For most people with a milk allergy, the answer is no -- the proteins in sheep and goat’s milk are similar to those in cow’s milk and also cause a reaction.
Some lactose-reduced milk has extra calcium added. Low-lactose cheeses and yogurt are also good sources of calcium. Non-dairy sources of calcium include dark green leafy vegetables, oysters, tofu, salmon, sardines, shrimp, almonds or calcium-fortified orange juice. Food. Definitions. Casein is a protein that is found in dairy products such as milk, ice cream, cheese and yogurt. It may also be found in ingredients that are derived from milk. You'll need to read labels and look for words and/or ingredients that may indicate the presence of milk proteins.
Milk and dairy foods are excellent sources of calcium but many dairy free foods are also high in calcium – often because it has been added during production. Are soy formula milks suitable for older children and adults? Yes, although they are low in calcium for infants over 12 months so it may be preferable to move onto an off-the-shelf soya milk, which is, calcium enriched to 120mg calcium per 100mls.
Lactose intolerance is when someone has difficulty absorbing and digesting lactose, a type of sugar found in milk. It is a condition that can be associated with coeliac disease. Symptoms of lactose intolerance are similar to that of coeliac disease and include: 1  nausea. 2  bloating. 3  stomach pain and/or cramps. 4  diarrhoea. 