Copper-magnesium plus other elements. The cast aluminum-copper-magnesium alloys containing iron are characterized by dimensional stability and improved bearing characteristics, as well as by high strength and hardness at elevated temperatures. Its effect on aluminum-silicon alloys is to increase strength and decrease elongation, but it does not make these alloys heat treatable. 4 C 3, but carbide formation with other impurities such as titanium is possible. A1 4 C 3 decomposes in the presence of water and water vapor, and this may lead to surface pitting.
Even though aluminium is more reactive than iron, it appears to not corrode as quickly as iron. This is because aluminium reacts with oxygen, forming an oxide layer around the … outside, preventing it from corroding further. The oxide layer acts as protection. Although the formulae are very similar, Aluminium is a much more reactive me … tal than Iron and therefore bonds onto the oxygen in the ore much more strongly than Iron does. This means that more energy is required to break the Al/O bonds than the Fe/O bonds and extract the aluminium.
Re: Does aluminum contain IRON(fe). They can not be directly mixed together and no current aluminum you can buy has iron in it. You can mix Aluminum with Iron-oxide and sulfur to create thermite. The sulfur holds the two together, however at no point are they actually bonded together. I can't give you that answer, but at that point the new alloy would be neither aluminum or iron, it would be something else. From what I have read some car manufactures do use some chassis and engine parts that contain some form of magnesium hybrid but I'm not sure the process behind that.
Beryllium is used in aluminum alloys containing magnesium to reduce oxidation at elevated temperatures. Up to 0.1% Be is used in aluminizing baths for steel to improve adhesion of the aluminum film and restrict the formation of the deleterious iron-aluminum complex. Its effect on aluminum-silicon alloys is to increase strength and decrease elongation, but it does not make these alloys heat treatable. 4 C 3, but carbide formation with other impurities such as titanium is possible. A1 4 C 3 decomposes in the presence of water and water vapor, and this may lead to surface pitting.
The most common ore of Iron is haematite Fe2O3. The most common ore of aluminium is Bauxite Al2O3. Although the formulae are very similar, Aluminium is a much more reactive me … tal than Iron and therefore bonds onto the oxygen in the ore much more strongly than Iron does. This means that more energy is required to break the Al/O bonds than the Fe/O bonds and extract the aluminium.
Aluminum and Iron are elements, which means that every atom in a block of pure aluminum is an aluminum atom, and similarly for iron (there are no molecules with different kinds of atoms in them). All atoms of a certain element have the same number of protons. Aluminum has 13 protons in its nucleus and Iron has 26. Brass is an alloy. Alloys are created when two or more metals (or a metal and a nonmetal) are mixed and stirred together. You might compare it to putting cocoa in milk and stirring it. 
Aluminum is even more reactive than iron, but … the aluminum oxide that forms is one of the hardest known substances and forms a protective layer that, even though it is microscopic, shields the aluminum from corrosion. 6 people found this useful. Although the formulae are very similar, Aluminium is a much more reactive me … tal than Iron and therefore bonds onto the oxygen in the ore much more strongly than Iron does. This means that more energy is required to break the Al/O bonds than the Fe/O bonds and extract the aluminium.
It has been added to some aluminum-silicon alloys containing iron, where it transforms the acicular ss (ß-aluminum-iron) silicon into a more rounded-aluminum-cobalt iron, phase thus improving strength and. Elongation-aluminum-zinc-magnesium copper alloys containing.0 2 to.19 % co are produced by powder. Metallurgy. copper Its effect on aluminum-silicon alloys is to increase strength and decrease elongation, but it does not make these alloys heat treatable. 4 C 3, but carbide formation with other impurities such as titanium is possible. A1 4 C 3 decomposes in the presence of water and water vapor, and this may lead to surface pitting.
Most commercially available aluminum contains some other materials, but only accidental traces of iron, if any. Copper, silver, and gold, same story. You mean 'alloys' not metals-no pure metal contains iron aside from iron itself as they are just elements as opposed to compounds. 
Posts: 4,370. Re: Does aluminum contain IRON(fe). To answer your question in its most basic forum does elemental aluminum (Al) contain iron (Fe) no they are two completely different elements on the periodic table. I can't give you that answer, but at that point the new alloy would be neither aluminum or iron, it would be something else. From what I have read some car manufactures do use some chassis and engine parts that contain some form of magnesium hybrid but I'm not sure the process behind that.