To register, a person must fill out a Voter Registration Application. Voter registrations are maintained by the County Commissioner of Registration. You may register in person at that office, register at your municipal clerk's office, or at any one of the following state offices.
If you have voted in a Primary Election and want to change and become a voter in a different political party, you must file a declaration of intent with the Commissioner of Registration no later than the 50th day prior to the Primary Election date.
by voting in either party s primary you become a member of that party change party affiliation to change your party affiliation you must file a party declaration form with your county commissioner of registration or municipal clerk at least 55 days before a primary election
Voting in New Jersey! Pursuant to the federal  Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA) , if you registered to vote by mail in your county after January 1, 2003, and never voted in a federal election in the county, you were required to provide your county commissioner of registration with identification.
The registrant must complete a Voter Registration Application and/or Party Affiliation Form. Mail or deliver the Voter Registration Application and/or Party Affiliation Form to the County Commissioner of Registration or Superintendent of Elections for your county.
You can print and complete the Political Party Affiliation Declaration Form and mail or deliver to the Commissioner of Registration in your county or you can also file it with your municipal clerk. These cards are also available at your local Commissioner of Registration Office.
A newly registered voter, an unaffiliated voter or a voter who has never voted in a primaryelection, can affiliate with the Democratic or Republican Party on the day of the primary. New JerseyDivisionof Elections www.NJElections.org.
Political Party Declaration Forms. A registered voter currently affiliated with a political party who wishes to change their party affiliation must file a Political Party Affiliation Declaration Form 55 days before a Primary Election.