Anabel has 27 more related forms via Anna, Belle: Ana ▲ , Ania, Anique, Anja, Ann ▼ , Annabeth, Annah, Annalee, Annamarie, Anneke, Annemarie ▼ , Annet, Annica, Annika ▲ , Annmarie ▼ , Anoesj, Anouska, Belinda ▼ , Belisse, Bell ▼ , Bella ▲ , Bellette, Bellina, Belva ▼ , Belvia, Hania and Nani. Charted below is the birth name popularity of Anabel for girls. Anabel was first listed in 1990 and reached its highest rank of #730 in the U.S. in 1991, and is at #910 presently.
Anabel is a very popular first name for women (#1569 out of 4276, Top 37%) but a unique surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Anabel for girls. Anabel was first listed in 1990 and reached its highest rank of #730 in the U.S. in 1991, and is at #910 presently.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Anabel in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Anabel in Nautical Flags page. View the Anabel Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Anabel has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Anabel to other names.
The most fashionable girl names here are Anabelle (#464) , Annabel (#448) , Annabella (#256) , Annabelle (#57) and Bella (#70) , and there is a rebound in birth name usage for Annabel, Annabelle and Bella. Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of the girl name Anabel and related names. Charted below is the birth name popularity of Anabel for girls. Anabel was first listed in 1990 and reached its highest rank of #730 in the U.S. in 1991, and is at #910 presently.
Anabel is used chiefly in the English and Spanish languages. Its origin is Germanic. Anabel is a variant spelling of the name Annabel (English) in the English and Spanish languages as well as a variant of the name Annabella (English, German, and Italian). Anabel is somewhat popular as a baby girl name. At the modest height of its usage in 1991, 0.014% of baby girls were given the name Anabel
Etymology & Historical Origin-Anabel. Anabel is the Spanish form of the Scottish name Annabel. Most people erroneously believe that Anabel is merely the combination of Anna plus Belle, but this is incorrect. Rather, Annabel is a Scottish female name which developed from the old Anglo-Norman girl’s name Amabel. 
Latin Meaning: The name Anabel is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Anabel is: Beautiful. Graceful. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths. 
The name Annabelle is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Annabelle is: Joy. American Meaning: The name Annabelle is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Annabelle is: Joy. English Meaning: The name Annabelle is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Annabelle is: Latin Amabel. Edgar Allan Poe's poem 'Annahel Lee' made the form Annabel popular throughout the English-speaking world in the 19th century. The form Annabelle became popular in the mid-2Oth century. Latin Meaning:
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. View the Anabel Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Anabel has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Anabel to other names.