The implant is a flexible plastic rod about the size of a matchstick that contains a progestin hormone called etonogestrel. Your healthcare provider will insert the implant just under the skin of the inner side of your upper arm. You can use a single IMPLANON implant for up to 3 years. IMPLANON does not contain estrogen.What if I need birth control for more than 3 years?The IMPLANON implant must be removed after 3 years. 
Contraceptive implants are a long-term birth control option for women. A contraceptive implant is a flexible plastic rod about the size of a matchstick that is placed under the skin of the upper arm. It releases a low, steady dose of a progestational hormone to thicken cervical mucus and thin the lining of the uterus (endometrium).
1 Hormonal implants are a type of birth control that can last for 3 years. 2  A tiny tube that releases a form of the hormone progestin is placed under the skin of the upper arm. 3  Hormonal implants do NOT protect against sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Hormonal implants are a type of birth control in the shape of a tiny tube that is placed under the skin of a woman’s upper arm. The implant prevents pregnancy and is effective for 3 years
The birth control implant is a thin, flexible plastic implant about the size of a cardboard matchstick. It is inserted under the skin of the upper arm. It protects against pregnancy for up to three years. The birth control implant is inserted under the skin. Insertion takes only a few minutes. After insertion, be sure to tell any health care provider you may see that you are using the birth control implant. The implant is effective for three years after it is inserted
Hormonal implant. Hormonal implants are a type of birth control in the shape of a tiny tube that is placed under the skin of a woman’s upper arm. The implant prevents pregnancy and is effective for 3 years
You can use a birth control implant for up to 3 years. Then you need to get it replaced. Removing it can take only a few minutes or 20 minutes, depending on how much scar tissue has formed. Your health care provider numbs your skin and makes a tiny cut near the tip of the implant, then pulls it out. Taken correctly, birth control pills are up to 99.9% effective at preventing pregnancy. Get the facts in this article. Birth Control Pill. Each implant is a plastic rod about the size of a matchstick.
Key Facts. 1  Hormonal implants are a type of birth control that can last for 3 years. 2  A tiny tube that releases a form of the hormone progestin is placed under the skin of the upper arm. 3  Hormonal implants do NOT protect against sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Hormonal implants are a type of birth control in the shape of a tiny tube that is placed under the skin of a woman’s upper arm. The implant prevents pregnancy and is effective for 3 years
Etonogestrel contraceptive implant, sold under the brandnames NexplanonT and Implanon, is a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant made by Merck & Co. that is inserted just under the skin of a woman's upper arm and contains etonogestrel. 