Gaucher Disease and Heredity. Gaucher disease is an inherited, genetic disorder. People inherit two copies of every gene—one from each parent. Genes contain information about our genetic makeup, including physical characteristics such as eye color and height. All genes that an individual inherits are organized on 23 pairs of chromosomes. The genes for production of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase are passed from parent to child. In patients with Gaucher disease, two copies of the glucocerebrosidase gene that the individual inherited from his or her parents are both defective; thus, the glucocerebrosidase is unable to function normally.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gaucher's disease or Gaucher disease (/ɡoʊˈʃeɪ/) (GD) is a genetic disorder in which glucocerebroside (a sphingolipid, also known as glucosylceramide) accumulates in cells and certain organs. Gaucher's disease is the most common of the lysosomal storage diseases. It is a form of sphingolipidosis (a subgroup of lysosomal storage diseases), as it involves dysfunctional metabolism of sphingolipids.
Gaucher disease is a rare genetic disorder characterized by the deposition of glucocerebroside in cells of the macrophage-monocyte system. The disorder results from the deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase. All forms of Gaucher disease are panethnic. Type 1 Gaucher disease is the most common lysosomal storage disease and is the most prevalent genetic disorder in individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. Type 3 disease is more common in the Norrbottnian region of Sweden
Mutations in the GBA gene cause Gaucher disease. The GBA gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called beta-glucocerebrosidase. This enzyme breaks down a fatty substance called glucocerebroside into a sugar (glucose) and a simpler fat molecule (ceramide). Types 2 and 3 Gaucher disease are known as neuronopathic forms of the disorder because they are characterized by problems that affect the central nervous system. In addition to the signs and symptoms described above, these conditions can cause abnormal eye movements, seizures, and brain damage.
Race. All forms of Gaucher disease are panethnic. Type 1 Gaucher disease is the most common lysosomal storage disease and is the most prevalent genetic disorder in individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. Type 3 disease is more common in the Norrbottnian region of Sweden
Genetics and Gaucher Disease. Gaucher disease is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by the presence of two mutant alleles coding for the glucocerebrosidase gene on chromosome 1. 
Gaucher disease is the most common of the inherited metabolic disorder known as lipid storage diseases. Lipids are fatty materials that include oils, fatty acids, waxes, and steroids (such as cholesterol and estrogen). Gaucher disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase. Fatty materials can accumulate in the spleen, liver, lungs, bone marrow, and brain.
Gaucher Disease is the most common of the lipid storage diseases. It is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase, which leads to a collection of fatty material in the spleen, liver, kidneys, lungs, brain, and bone marrow. It has three subtypes, with Gaucher Disease Type I being the most prevalent. Enzyme replacement therapy has been developed in recent years and has been highly effective in reversing some symptoms and reducing the severity of others. Type I Gaucher is the most prevalent Jewish genetic disease, with a carrier frequency of about 1 in 15. Screening will detect approximately 95% of cariers.
Some forms of Gaucher's disease may be treated with enzyme replacement therapy. The disease is caused by a recessive mutation in a gene located on chromosome 1 and affects both males and females. About one in 100 people in the United States are carriers of the most common type of Gaucher disease. Gaucher's disease is the most common of the lysosomal storage diseases. It is a form of sphingolipidosis (a subgroup of lysosomal storage diseases), as it involves dysfunctional metabolism of sphingolipids.