Starchy Vegetables and Beans. Beans and starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, yams, green peas, water chestnuts and corn, contain high levels of complex carbohydrates that your body digests into sugars. In addition, starchy vegetables and beans contribute vitamins, minerals and fiber to your diet.
Lowfat milk-based foods such as yogurt are very rich sources of carbohydrate. A six-ounce serving of lowfat blueberry yogurt supplies 26 grams of carbs. Lowfat yogurt is a better choice before and immediately after exercise because it has a higher glycemic index, so the carbs go to work quickly.
1 Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 2  Complex carbohydrates are foods made up of three or more linked sugars like bran, potatoes, brown rice, peas and whole grain cereals. 3  They are broken down and are turned into glucose to be used as a source of energy for cells.
It is healthiest to eat carbohydrates, vitamins, and other nutrients in the most natural form possible -- for example, from fruit instead of table sugar. Complex carbohydrates, often referred to as starchy foods, include: 1  Legumes, such as beans, peas, lentils and peanuts. 2  Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn, green peas, and parsnips. 3  Whole-grain breads and cereals.
Grain Products. Grain products are the leading source of carbohydrates in the American diet. Grains naturally contain high concentrations of starch, which your gastrointestinal system breaks down into sugars. Common grains in the U.S. diet include wheat, oats, rice, barley and cornmeal. Amaranth, buckwheat, triticale, spelt, sorghum, quinoa, millet, farro, bulgur and grano are also sources of dietary carbohydrates.
There are three main types of carbohydrates: 1  Sugar. 2  Sugar is the simplest form of carbohydrates. 3  Sugar occurs naturally in some foods, including fruits, vegetables, milk and milk products. 4  Sugars include fruit sugar (fructose), table sugar (sucrose) and milk sugar (lactose). 5  Starch.