Aa Aa Aa. Transposable elements (TEs), also known as jumping genes , are DNA sequences that move from one location on the genome to another. These elements were first identified more than 50 years ago by geneticist Barbara McClintock of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in New York. One of the roles of terminal inverted repeats is to be recognized by transposase. Figure 3: The structure of a DNA transposon. DNA transposons, also known as class 2 transposable elements, are flanked at both ends by terminal inverted repeats.
A bacterial DNA transposon. A transposable element (TE or transposon) is a DNA sequence that can change its position within the genome, sometimes creating or reversing mutations and altering the cell's genome size. Transposition often results in duplication of the TE. Transposable elements (TEs) represent one of several types of mobile genetic elements. TEs are assigned to one of two classes according to their mechanism of transposition, which can be described as either copy and paste (class I TEs) or cut and paste (class II TEs).
genetic merit. inherited productivity or performance qualities. mobile genetic elements. see transposable genetic elements (below). genetic penetrance. see penetrance.
transposable element. noun. : a segment of genetic material that is capable of changing its location in the genome or that in some bacteria is capable of undergoing transfer between an extrachromosomal plasmid and a chromosome—called also transposable genetic element. Definition of TRANSPOSABLE ELEMENT. : a segment of genetic material that is capable of changing its location in the genome or in some bacteria of undergoing transfer between an extrachromosomal plasmid and a chromosome. ADVERTISEMENT. noun.
McClintock and the Ac/Ds Transposable Elements of Corn Barbara McClintock was the first scientist to predict that transposable elements, mobile pieces of the genetic material (DNA), were present in eukaryotic genomes. She performed her work on corn and specifically followed seed color phenotypes. For corn, the outer layer of cells of the endosperm is the aleurone layer. McClintock discovered transposable elements by analyzing genetic stocks of corn that were phenotypically unstable. In particular, she was analyzing genes that control the color of the aleurone layer of the endosperm.
transposable genetic elements. pieces of DNA varying in length from a few hundred to tens of thousands of base pairs found in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells that move from place to place in the chromosomes of a single cell; some are viruses. mobile genetic elements. see transposable genetic elements (below). genetic penetrance. see
Aa Aa Aa. Transposable elements (TEs), also known as jumping genes  or transposons, are sequences of DNA that move (or jump) from one location in the genome to another. Maize geneticist Barbara McClintock discovered TEs in the 1940s, and for decades thereafter, most scientists dismissed transposons as useless or junk DNA. 
The defining property of transposable elements is their mobility; i.e. they are genetic elements that can move from one position to another in the genome. Beyond the common property of mobility, transposable elements show considerable diversity. The final method of changing the DNA in a genome that we will consider is transposition, which is the movement of DNA from one location to another. Segments of DNA with this ability to move are called transposable elements.