The nitrogenous bases of DNA are adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) and thymine (T). RNA also has the bases A, G and C-but has uracil (U) instead of T. 7 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Diagrams Showing the Process of DNA-to-RNA Transcription DNA is often referred to as the blueprint for life. Answer by Pieman3113. Confidence votes 4. The DNA bases are adenine, guanine, thymine, and cytosine. In RNA, Thymine is replaced by Uracil. Adenine and guanine are known as purines and cytosine and thymine are known as pyrimidines.
RNA is, in fact, the second of the two types of nucleic acids; however, there are a number of structural differences between the two. First let's address the name. Like DNA, RNA is a nucleic acid composed of a sugar, a phosphate group and a nitrogenous base. One difference between DNA and RNA is the sugar. This type of RNA is called ribosomal RNA, or rRNA. Remember that DNA and RNA differ slightly at the nucleotide level. Therefore, the process of transcribing DNA into RNA not only changes the information from a double-stranded into a single-stranded molecule, but also changes all the thymine bases into uracil ones.
Apart from adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), thymine (T) and uracil (U), DNA and RNA also contain bases that have been modified after the nucleic acid chain has been formed. In DNA, the most common modified base is 5-methylcytosine (m 5 C). In RNA, there are many modified bases, including those contained in the nucleosides pseudouridine (ψ), dihydrouridine (D), inosine (I), and 7-methylguanosine (m 7 G).
One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). A fifth pyrimidine base, called uracil (U), usually takes the place of thymine in RNA and differs from thymine by lacking a methyl group on its ring. 
DNA and RNA Bases. In DNA, there are four different bases: adenine (A) and guanine (G) are the larger purines. Cytosine (C) and thymine (T) are the smaller pyrimidines. RNA also contains four different bases. Three of these are the same as in DNA: adenine, guanine, and cytosine. RNA contains uracil (U) instead of thymine (T). 
The DNA bases are adenine, guanine, thymine, and cytosine. In RNA, Thymine is replaced by Uracil. Answer by Pieman3113. Confidence votes 4. The DNA bases are adenine, guanine, thymine, and cytosine. In RNA, Thymine is replaced by Uracil. Adenine and guanine are known as purines and cytosine and thymine are known as pyrimidines.
Because A, G, C, and T appear in the DNA, these molecules are called DNA-bases; A, G, C, and U are called RNA-bases. Uracil and thymine are identical except that uracil lacks the 5' methyl group. Adenine and guanine belong to the double-ringed class of molecules called purines (abbreviated as R). In DNA, the most common modified base is 5-methylcytosine (m 5 C). In RNA, there are many modified bases, including those contained in the nucleosides pseudouridine (ψ), dihydrouridine (D), inosine (I), and 7-methylguanosine (m 7 G).
DNA is present in the nucleus of every cell. The nucleotide bases present in the DNA are adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and thymine (T).The original structure of the DNA molecule is a double helix. DNA is a double stranded structure. 1 It is transcribed from a DNA template.On the mRNA nucleotides are arranged into codons consisting of 3 bases each.Each such codon specifies an amino acid. 2  tRNA-This RNA type is a small chain of about 80 nucleotides. 3  As the name suggests, tRNA transfers specific amino acid molecules to a growing polypeptide chain.
Ribonucleic acid (RNA) is a linear molecule composed of four types of smaller molecules called ribonucleotide bases: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and uracil (U). Each ribonucleotide base consists of a ribose sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. Adjacent ribose nucleotide bases are chemically attached to one another in a chain via chemical bonds called phosphodiester bonds. Unlike DNA, RNA is usually single-stranded.