The best time to prune deciduous trees is late winter or early spring (February, March, and early April) before they begin to leaf out. Some trees, such as maples, bleed heavily when pruned in late winter or early spring. If possible, avoid pruning deciduous trees in the spring as they are leafing out. At this time, the tree's energy reserves are low and the bark slips or tears easily. Another poor time to prune is during leaf drop in the fall.
Evergreen Shrubs. Spring is the recommended time to prune evergreen shrubs to tidy up their appearance, according to the University of Iowa Extension Office. Prune in late March or early April before the flush of new growth appears. Perform a second, light trimming in late June or early July. Pruning at these times is good for shrubs. 
Pruning Flowering Trees to Enhance Flowering. If your purpose for pruning is to enhance flowering: 1  For trees that bloom in spring, prune when their flowers fade. 2  Trees and shrubs that flower in mid-to late summer should be pruned in winter or early spring. Because decay fungi spread their spores profusely in the fall and healing of wounds seems to be slower on fall on cuts, this is a good time to leave your pruning tools in storage. Now that you know when to prune your tree learn the basics of tree pruning.
When Not To Prune: Fall. Because decay fungi spread their spores profusely in the fall and healing of wounds seems to be slower on fall on cuts, this is a good time to leave your pruning tools in storage. Now that you know when to prune your tree learn the basics of tree pruning.
An excellent time to prune oaks is February and March. If possible, avoid pruning deciduous trees in the spring as they are leafing out. At this time, the tree's energy reserves are low and the bark slips or tears easily. Another poor time to prune is during leaf drop in the fall.
1 For trees that bloom in spring, prune when their flowers fade. 2  Trees and shrubs that flower in mid-to late summer should be pruned in winter or early spring. Because decay fungi spread their spores profusely in the fall and healing of wounds seems to be slower on fall on cuts, this is a good time to leave your pruning tools in storage. Now that you know when to prune your tree learn the basics of tree pruning.
Winter Pruning Guide for Trees and Shrubs. Late winter is a good time for pruning in many regions. Here are some tips and a list of common shrubs and trees to prune in late winter or early spring. Pruning deciduous plants in the winter promotes fast regrowth in the spring, as most plants are dormant during the winter. It’s also easier to see the shape of deciduous plants in the winter, since their foliage is gone. 1  Prune on a mild, dry day. 2  When pruning, first prune out dead and diseased branches.
Annual Pruning. The best time to prune most trees and shrubs is during the late fall or early summer, when the plants enter their dormant stage. Trimming during this period of rest protects the trees from using stored energy to form new growth before the spring warmth arrives. 
Safe Timing. The safest time to prune pine trees is during the dormant period in late winter to early spring. This allows pine trees to recover from pruning wounds as warm spring weather hits. 
The worst time to prune trees is late spring and early summer when their leaves are expanding and the tree is putting its energy toward growth. A common myth is that large, mature trees can tolerate more pruning than small trees. In fact, the opposite is true. I am often asked when is the best time and what should be pruned. The ideal time is when the tree is dormant, which is late fall to early spring. Since the tree is not active, the removal of limbs will be less stressful to the plant.