Plating is a surface covering in which a metal is deposited on a conductive surface. Plating has been done for hundreds of years; it is also critical for modern technology. In one method, a solid surface is covered with a metal sheet, and then heat and pressure are applied to fuse them (a version of this is Sheffield plate). Other plating techniques include vapor deposition under vacuum and sputter deposition. Recently, plating often refers to using liquids
In-Line Galvanised Coatings. In-line galvanised coatings are applied during the manufacturing process of the hollow or open section, with the cleaned steel section exiting the mill and passing into the galvanizing bath. This process applies a coating of zinc to the surface that can be controlled in thickness. This coating is usually measured as coating mass in grams per square metre and ranges from a minimum of about 100 g/m 2 upwards, with an average around 175 g/m 2. Accelerated weathering testing of coatings has traditionally been done in salt spray cabinets.
Gold plating is a method of depositing a thin layer of gold on the surface of glass or metal, most often copper or silver. Gold plating is often used in electronics, to provide a corrosion-resistant electrically conductive layer on copper, typically in electrical connectors and printed circuit boards. In one method, a solid surface is covered with a metal sheet, and then heat and pressure are applied to fuse them (a version of this is Sheffield plate). Other plating techniques include vapor deposition under vacuum and sputter deposition. Recently, plating often refers to using liqui
The electrochemical protection provided to steel by zinc coatings is a vital element in the effectiveness of galvanized coatings in protecting steel from corrosion. All pre-galvanized products rely on the cathodic protection provided by zinc to prevent corrosion of exposed steel at cut edges. Webmaster. Hot dip galvanizing is the process of applying a zinc coating to fabricated iron or steel material by immersing the material in a bath consisting primarily of molten zinc.
Powder coating offers a high quality finish in a single coat process and, once it has cooled down after stoving, there is no additional waiting time to handle the component. Polyester powders offer superior protection against UV damage for items to be used outdoors. Powder coating is a process whereby paint, in the form of a dry powder, is sprayed onto a component. A static charge sticks the powder in place and the component is then heated in order to melt and cure the powder.
Galvanizing. Hot dip galvanizing is the process of applying a zinc coating to fabricated iron or steel material by immersing the material in a bath consisting primarily of molten zinc. The simplicity of the galvanizing process is a distinct advantage over other methods of providing corrosion protection. Webmaster. Hot dip galvanizing is the process of applying a zinc coating to fabricated iron or steel material by immersing the material in a bath consisting primarily of molten zinc.
With 80,000 square feet of production space devoted to the protective coating of machined components, assemblies and fabrications, Metal Coatings Corp. is equipped for responsiveness in the application of protective, non-stick, lubricant, chemical resistant and anti-corrosion coatings. 