Elbow Sprains. An elbow sprain is stretching or tearing of the ligaments that support the elbow. Ligaments are strong bands of tissue that connect bones to each other. 
A strain is an injury to a muscle and/or tendons. Tendons are fibrous cords of tissue that attach muscles to the bone. Strains often occur in your foot, leg (typically the hamstring) or back. Similar to sprains, a strain may be a simple stretch in your muscle or tendon, or it may be a partial or complete tear in the muscle-and-tendon combination. Typical symptoms of a strain include pain, muscle spasm, muscle weakness, swelling, inflammation, and cramping. 1 Grade 1 sprain (mild): Slight stretching and some damage to the fibers (fibrils) of the ligament. 2  Grade 2 sprain (moderate): Partial tearing of the ligament. 3  There is abnormal looseness (laxity) in the joint when it is moved in certain ways. 4  Grade 3 sprain (severe): Complete tear
The severity of sprain ranges from a minor injury which resolves in a few days to a major rupture of one or more ligaments requiring surgical fixation and a period of immobilisation. Sprains can occur in any joint but are most common in the ankle and wrist. 
Introduction. Sprains and strains are usually minor injuries that are often occur during sports, exercise, or other physical activity. A sprain is an injury to a ligament, the tissue that links bones together at joints. Sprains happen most often in the ankle, knee, elbow, or wrist. Strains are tears in muscle tissue. They happen most often in the muscles that support the calf, thigh, groin, and shoulder. 
1 A sprain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a ligament that supports a joint. 2  A strain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a muscle or tendon. 3  Sprains and strains may be caused by repetitive activities or by a single event. Muscle sprains and strains facts. 1  A sprain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a ligament that supports a joint. 2  A strain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a muscle or tendon. 3  Sprains and strains may be caused by repetitive activities or by a single event. 4  The diagnosis of a sprain or strain usually can be made after the healthcare 5  ... RICE ...
The ligaments are anchored to bone on each side of the joint. If a ligament is stretched or torn, the injury is called a sprain. The grading system for sprain injury is similar to that of strains. 1  Grade 1 sprains describe fibers of the ligament that are stretched. 2  Grade 2 sprains are injuries where part of the ligament is torn. Muscle sprains and strains facts. 1  A sprain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a ligament that supports a joint. 2  A strain is abnormal stretching or tearing of a muscle or tendon. 3  Sprains and strains may be caused by repetitive activities or by a single event. 4  The diagnosis of a sprain or strain usually can be made after the healthcare 5  ... RICE ...
A sprain is a stretch and/or tear of a ligament, a strong band of connective tissue that connect the end of one bone with another. Ligaments stabilize and support the body's joints. For example, ligaments in the knee connect the thighbone with the shinbone, enabling people to walk and run. 1 Grade 1 sprain (mild): Slight stretching and some damage to the fibers (fibrils) of the ligament. 2  Grade 2 sprain (moderate): Partial tearing of the ligament. 3  There is abnormal looseness (laxity) in the joint when it is moved in certain ways. 4  Grade 3 sprain (severe): Complete tear
The MCL is part of a complex of ligaments and tendons that attach and stabilize the bones of the lower and upper arm where they meet at the elbow. Specifically, the MCL attaches the ulna-which, together with the radius, make up the bones of the lower arm-with the humerus, the bone in the upper arm. The patient must wait 9-12 months for the ligament to be healed into the bone. During this period, he or she participates in a rehabilitation program in which an increasing amount of force is gradually applied to the elbow and the muscles are strengthened.
Ligaments can be stretched by an injury, excess strain on the joint, or through improper stretching techniques that weaken the elbow joint because stretched-out ligaments can cause joint instability. Ligaments can be highly susceptible to injury, and can lead to complications in the function of the joint. 
Hyperextension injury of the elbow is a condition that causes damage to the bones, ligaments, and other structures of the elbows. This damage is caused by bending the elbow backwards and out of its normal motion range. This can cause fractures or dislocation of the elbow. 