If you inherit a Traditional, Rollover, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA from a spouse, you have several options, depending on whether your spouse was under or over age 70½. Most commonly, those who inherit an IRA from a spouse transfer the funds to their own IRA. 
1 Rollover the IRA to an inherited IRA (see this post for more information). 2  In this case, you’re treating the situation as if you’re a non-spouse beneficiary. 3  Rollover the IRA into an existing or new IRA in your own name. As a person who has inherited an IRA from your spouse, you have the following options if you are the sole beneficiary of the IRA: 1  Leave the IRA where it is, and begin taking distributions based upon your own life (see Table I for the factors). 2  This is the default position.
Spouse Beneficiary. If you are the spouse beneficiary of the IRA, the rules allow you to treat the inherited IRA as your own. You can change the name on the IRA to yours, transfer it into one of your existing IRAs or roll the IRA into a different IRA account. As the spouse of the deceased owner of the IRA, you have all the rights of an original IRA owner when you inherit. Rollover vs. Transfer. An IRA can be moved to a new custodian through either a rollover or a transfer. A rollover occurs when you receive the money from an IRA and deposit it into another IRA within 60 days.
1 Rollover the IRA into an existing or new IRA in your own name. 2  This is the special provision that spouses can use that a non-spouse beneficiary can not. (Note: you could also leave the IRA where it is and just begin treating the account as if it was your own – more on this below. 1 This is the default position. 2  Rollover the IRA to an inherited IRA (see this post for more information). 3  In this case, you’re treating the situation as if you’re a non-spouse beneficiary. 4 
1 Rollover the IRA into an existing or new IRA in your own name. 2  This is the special provision that spouses can use that a non-spouse beneficiary can not. (Note: you could also leave the IRA where it is and just begin treating the account as if it was your own – more on this below. ). As a person who has inherited an IRA from your spouse, you have the following options if you are the sole beneficiary of the IRA: 1  Leave the IRA where it is, and begin taking distributions based upon your own life (see Table I for the factors). 2  This is the default position.
To do this, here are the steps to take. Open an Inherited IRA: An inherited IRA is a special type of IRA which is commonly called a Beneficiary Distribution Account IRA, or BDA IRA. When you establish an inherited IRA, it's important that the IRA custodian registers the account properly. The account registration should include: 1  the name of the person who died; 2  an indication that the account is an IRA beneficiary distribution account; 3  the inheritor's name.
My uncle died in July of last year. Answer: No. You cannot rollover or transfer an Inherited IRA to your own IRA, because you are a non-spouse beneficiary. A non-spouse beneficiary is defined as a beneficiary that is not the surviving spouse of the deceased IRA owner.
When you inherit an IRA as a non-spouse beneficiary, the account works much like a typical IRA, with three important exceptions. No 10% Penalty. Distributions from the account are not subject to the 10% penalty, regardless of your age. (This is the same as for a spouse beneficiary.). If the inherited account was a Roth IRA, any withdrawals of earnings taken prior to the point at which the original owner would have satisfied the 5-year rule will be subject to income tax, though not the 10% penalty. (This is also
1 Rollover the IRA to an inherited IRA (see this post for more information). 2  In this case, you’re treating the situation as if you’re a non-spouse beneficiary. 3  Rollover the IRA into an existing or new IRA in your own name. 1 This is the default position. 2  Rollover the IRA to an inherited IRA (see this post for more information). 3  In this case, you’re treating the situation as if you’re a non-spouse beneficiary. 4
If you inherit IRA assets from someone other than your spouse, you generally have two options from which to choose: direct transfer of the IRA to a special type of IRA called an inherited IRA, or take cash distributions as taxable income. When you establish an inherited IRA, it's important that the IRA custodian registers the account properly. The account registration should include: 1  the name of the person who died; 2  an indication that the account is an IRA beneficiary distribution account; 3  the inheritor's name.