You can catch chickenpox from a person with shingles through direct contact with the blisters but you cannot catch shingles (herpes zoster) from someone with chickenpox or with shingles. The incubation period is seven to 21 (usually 10 to 21) days after exposure to the herpes varicella-zoster virus to the development of the symptoms. The disease is most contagious a day or two before the rash appears and until the rash is completely dry and scabbed over, about five to six days after onset of the rash.
Shingles is less contagious than chicken pox and cannot be passed from person to person. However, the varicella zoster virus can be spread from a person with shingles to someone who has never had chicken pox. The unfortunate recipient might develop chicken pox, but not shingles. Caused by the herpes virus, the earliest symptoms of both conditions include headache, fever, a general feeling of malaise, sore throat and swelling of the face. Chicken pox is very common in children, being actually a children's disease. It is very contagious and it is actually nothing but a viral infection.
Chickenpox incubation period. Chickenpox (varicella) is a common, highly contagious, viral infectious disease of childhood. Usually mild, it’s characterised by a very itchy rash that can spread over the whole body. In the UK, it is common and most cases occur during winter and spring. The incubation period is seven to 21 (usually 10 to 21) days after exposure to the herpes varicella-zoster virus to the development of the symptoms. The disease is most contagious a day or two before the rash appears and until the rash is completely dry and scabbed over, about five to six days after onset of the rash.
Chicken pox or varicella is an itchy, red, lumpy rash that is caused by the varicella virus. The Chicken pox virus is highly contagious for those who are not immune to it. Once a person has developed chicken pox the virus that causes the illness never goes away but lies dormant in the dorsal column of the spinal cord. If this virus is reactivated later in life (most commonly decades later) a condition called shingles or herpes zoster can occur.
Most chicken pox is very easy to diagnose. Doctors will enquire about exposure to the virus and the symptoms that were present before the onset of the rash, as many people will experience fever and a feeling of malaise before the visible onset of lesions. Once a person has developed chicken pox the virus that causes the illness never goes away but lies dormant in the dorsal column of the spinal cord. If this virus is reactivated later in life (most commonly decades later) a condition called shingles or herpes zoster can occur.
Chickenpox (varicella) is a contagious illness that causes an itchy rash and red spots or blisters (pox) all over the body. Chickenpox can cause problems for pregnant women, newborns, teens and adults, and people who have immune system problems that make it hard for the body to fight infection. 
Shingles, also known as zoster or herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash caused by the same virus responsible for chicken pox: the varicella zoster virus. Even if you had chicken pox in the past, you can still contract shingles. Caused by the herpes virus, the earliest symptoms of both conditions include headache, fever, a general feeling of malaise, sore throat and swelling of the face. Chicken pox is very common in children, being actually a children's disease. It is very contagious and it is actually nothing but a viral infection.
Chicken Pox. Chicken pox is a very contagious disease. The scientific name for chicken pox is varicella (vair-ih-SELL-a). The early symptoms of chicken pox include: 1  Fever (usually 101 to 103F). 2  Runny nose and cough. 3  Loss of appetite. 4  Tired or sick feeling. People who get chicken pox can be contagious starting a few days before the rash appears. This usually means that you may be contagious from the 10th to the 21st day after you were exposed to chicken pox. A good way to determine whether or not you are contagious is to fill in the information below.