Some angry old man just bashed me in a letter. I grew up in the South all my life and my perspective of things is very different from the guy. Maybe I'm missing something here. Somebody educate me. I love Southern food and arts and crafts, but heritage-wise, I only hear about the bad things. 
Southern Heritage is only regionalism in a sense that it tries to group together states based upon the system of labor exploitation it lost and the stupid war they fought to defend it. It is not shared by all southerners. The battle flag, or any flag, of the confederacy is a symbol of hate, and racism. It should epitomize southern SHAME not heritage. But regardless, There are a million other symbols we can be proud of and can use to celebrate the good parts of southern culture.
The Southern Heritage Classic presented by FedEx is the annual college football game between the Tigers of Jackson State University and the Tigers of Tennessee State University since 1994. Contents. 
The Southern Heritage of the South On June 4, 1914, the Arlington monument was unveiled to a crowd of thousands that included former Confederate and Union soldiers. WE in the south are proud of our southern heritage. Most surprisingly, Obama -- the man who could become America's first African-American president -- is linked by ancestry to have southern confederate heritage to Robert E. Lee, who commanded the armies of the Southern slave-holding states during the American civil war.
Southern Heritage 411. Southern Heritage 411 Inc. is a corporation founded to inform the public about Southern Heritage from the perspective of the hundreds of thousands of black people who love and support the South, its people, its customs, and its history. The President of Southern Heritage 411 is H.K. H.K. Edgerton and Southern Heritage 411 strive to illuminate the truth as it pertains to the relationships and experiences of blacks and whites in the South as they have struggled together to maintain the principles of a limited, democratic and representative government as espoused by America's founding fathers.
Southern heritage is a prism distorted by skin color and has eyes that are not nor ever will be blind to skin 'color. That is impossible in a society that has built privilege, or not, around the color of ones skin. White people made this mess with enslaving black people in the first place. No ifs, and's or buts. The battle flag, or any flag, of the confederacy is a symbol of hate, and racism. It should epitomize southern SHAME not heritage. But regardless, There are a million other symbols we can be proud of and can use to celebrate the good parts of southern culture.
History is certainly part of who we are. But it is long past time to stop romanticizing the past represented by the Confederate flag. My family's heritage is as Southern as it can possibly get. My father's lineage is from Alabama, Kentucky, Louisiana and Tennessee. On my mother's side, our roots in Southwestern Virginia continue into the present
“And, you know, I’m from the South and proud of the South and, you know, proud of this flag.”. The notion that the flag is a symbol of Southern heritage and nothing more is an ahistorical one. From the moment it was designed it was intended to convey the South’s reliance on the institution of slavery. 