Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically ranges from zero to 100 mm annually. 1 Divergent boundaries (Constructive) occur where two plates slide apart from each other. 2  At zones of ocean-to-ocean rifting, divergent boundaries form by seafloor spreading, allowing for the formation of new ocean basin.
Consider a convergent continental-continental boundary (Himalayan collision) and you won't have a deep ocean trench anywhere nearby. A more appropriate answer would be a convergent oceanic-continental plate boundary, IE, a subduction zone. In a transform boundary, the plates usually slide past one another. Studies have shown that trenches are, on average, 2 miles or a bit more beneath the rest of the ocean floor in that area. The deepest trench has been dubbed “Challenger Deep.” It is in the trench of the Mariana Islands mentioned earlier.
Divergent plate boundaries occur at ridges in the open ocean. Convergent boundaries occur when one plate sinks beneath another and actually goes deep enough to reach the second layer of the Earth, the mantle. In a transform boundary, the plates usually slide past one another. Studies have shown that trenches are, on average, 2 miles or a bit more beneath the rest of the ocean floor in that area. The deepest trench has been dubbed “Challenger Deep.” It is in the trench of the Mariana Islands mentioned earlier.
Oceanic crust is formed at an oceanic ridge, while the lithosphere is subducted back into the asthenosphere at trenches. The oceanic trenches are hemispheric-scale long but narrow topographic depressions of the sea floor. They are also the deepest parts of the ocean floor. Oceanic trenches are a distinctive morphological feature of convergent plate boundaries, along which lithospheric plates move towards each other at rates that vary from a few mm to over ten cm per year. The greatest ocean depth to be sounded is in the Challenger Deep of the Mariana Trench, at a depth of 11,034 m (36,201 ft) below sea level. Oceanic lithosphere moves into trenches at a global rate of about 3 km 2 /y
The third type of plate boundary occurs where tectonic plates slide horizontally past each other. This is known as a transform plate boundary. As the plates rub against each other, huge stresses are set up that can cause portions of the rock to break, resulting in earthquakes. Heat within the asthenosphere creates convection currents that cause tectonic plates to move several centimeters per year relative to each other. When two tectonic plates meet, we get a “plate boundary.” There are three major types of plate boundaries.
Plate Boundaries. • Three types of plate boundaries exist. Where plates move away from each other, the boundary is divergent. Where they move toward each other, the boundary is convergent. Where they slide past each other, the boundary is a transform boundary. Convergent boundaries form where two plates collide. These boundaries often form major mountain chains. These boundaries are identified by their high mountains, volcanic island arc chains, and deep earthquakes. An ocean plate converges with a continental plate.
The ocean trenches are narrow topographic depressions in the sea. These trenches form the deepest points in the ocean and are the lowest points on earth. These trenches are formed at a particular place of plate boundary which is known as subduction zone. It happens to form when a plate in ocean hits another ocean plate or it strikes with continental plate. Now when one plate hits another plate or continental plate in the ocean then the denser plate between the two of them sinks in the mantle. The place where this plate sinks will create a deep trench on that spot of ocean.
This map shows the locations of these deep-sea trenches. When two plates come together under the ocean a deep-sea trench is formed. These relatively narrow down-folds in Earth's crust may be twice as deep (almost 12,000 meters) as the regular deep-sea floor (up to 6,000 meters). This is an area of plate movement and earthquake activity from this movement
The location where two plates meet is called a plate boundary. Plate boundaries are commonly associated with geological events such as earthquakes and the creation of topographic features such as mountains, volcanoes, mid-ocean ridges, and oceanic trenches. 1 Divergent boundaries (Constructive) occur where two plates slide apart from each other. 2  At zones of ocean-to-ocean rifting, divergent boundaries form by seafloor spreading, allowing for the formation of new ocean basin.