The Manifesto for Agile Software Development, also known as the Agile Manifesto, was first proclaimed in 2001, six years after Agile Methodology was originally introduced by the preeminent software engineers of the late 80's and early 90's. In agile software development, an information radiator is a (normally large) physical display located prominently in an office, where passers-by can see it. It presents an up-to-date summary of the status of a software project or other product.
In software application development, agile software development (ASD) is a methodology for the creative process that anticipates the need for flexibility and applies a level of pragmatism into the delivery of the finished product. Agile retrospective. An Agile retrospective is a meeting that’s held at the end of an iteration in Agile development. See complete definition. specification by example (SBE). Specification by example (SBE) is a user-driven contextual approach to defining software requirements. This approach encourages ..
Agile development is a phrase used in software development to describe methodologies for incremental software development. - Working software is the primary measure of progress. - The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation. - The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
Agile methodology is an alternative to traditional project management, typically used in software development. It helps teams respond to unpredictability through incremental, iterative work cadences, known as sprints. Agile methodologies are an alternative to waterfall, or traditional sequential development.
Agile is a time boxed, iterative approach to software delivery that builds software incrementally from the start of the project, instead of trying to deliver it all at once near the end. 
Agile software development is a group of software development methods in which solutions evolve through collaboration between self-organizing, cross-functional teams. It promotes adaptive planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, continuous improvement, and encourages rapid and flexible response to change. In agile software development, an information radiator is a (normally large) physical display located prominently in an office, where passers-by can see it. It presents an up-to-date summary of the status of a software project or other product.
The Agile Manifesto. Agile development is used to describe any development process that is aligned with the concepts of the Agile Manifesto. This well-known documentation was developed by leaders in the software industry and is based on experience with what works and what doesn't in software development. - Working software is the primary measure of progress. - The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation. - The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
Scrum is an Agile framework for completing complex projects. Scrum originally was formalized for software development projects, but it works well for any complex, innovative scope of work. The possibilities are endless. The Scrum framework is deceptively simple. Learn About Scrum. 