It is common to get a tummy upset when you have your period. What happens is sometimes the tissue from the uterus can break away and irritate the bowls. You should see a doc because if it is really bad it can cause scaring and reduce your fertility. i'm only 13 and my mom won't let me take any medicine. the past 2 days i've been lying in bed with the worst menstrual cramps, headaches and stomach aches. i also can't eat anything because i can't hold it down-i feel like i have to throw up a couple minutes after i've eaten. oh, and i also have to use the toilet...
It gets better as you get older and may go away if you have children when you are older. However I still get diarrhea with the first 3 days of my period. The horomones released during your period can irritate the bowels, even though this is another system altogether. 1 advil and 2 imodium pills should make you feel better in 1 hour. Drink lots of water. If you have really heavy periods and a lot of pain go see a doctor for something stronger and to get a check-up. i'm only 13 and my mom won't let me take any medicine. the past 2 days i've been lying in bed with the worst menstrual cramps, headaches and stomach aches. i also can't eat anything because i can't hold it down-i feel like i have to throw up a couple minutes after i've eaten. oh, and i also have to use the toilet...
It causes not only your uterus to contract but … also your stomach muscles as well which causes diarrhea. It is so normal with me though that when I all of a sudden have diarrhea accompanied with nausea, I say to myself I'm about to start my period.. Mine usually occurs 1 or 2 days prior to my period starting. The cramps are quite common before, during or after the period. Diarrhea is not common. It is possible to have diarrhea concomitantly with the period, but the diarrhea oftenti … mes is unrelated to the period. 1 person found this useful.
Dear Reader, Not only can women experience cramping, bloating, and feeling lousy during their period — sometimes they have the pleasure of other symptoms like loose stools. While many women experience few or no PMS symptoms, for some, PMS symptoms are enough to make a person wonder why human bodies can be so cruel. There may in fact be a physiological link between menstruation and diarrhea.
You have enough to deal with during your period — making diarrhea and changes in bowel habits just another thing you don't want to put up with. Though diarrhea is caused by the same bodily changes that cause period cramping, many women find it can be managed and prevented with medication. Also avoid caffeine and junk foods as both can cause diarrhea and worsen PMS. Of course, a heating pad, warm water bottle, or warm cloth across your abdominal area can also help relieve the pain brought on by period cramps.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Princesa williams. Confidence votes 207. Yes, it is normal to have diarrhea during your period because I get it sometimes also. I agree with whoever said that, but let me explain why just so that you might feel better. The cramps are quite common before, during or after the period. Diarrhea is not common. It is possible to have diarrhea concomitantly with the period, but the diarrhea oftenti … mes is unrelated to the period. 1 person found this useful.
The exact reasons why diarrhea occurs during your period aren't fully understood, but it is quite common and often tied to menstrual cramps. Believed to be at the root of the cause are prostaglandins, chemicals released during your period that allow the uterus, and thus the intestines, to contract. Also avoid caffeine and junk foods as both can cause diarrhea and worsen PMS. Of course, a heating pad, warm water bottle, or warm cloth across your abdominal area can also help relieve the pain brought on by period cramps.
Diarrhea, as well as other gastrointestinal symptoms such as bloating and nausea, may also occur during the week prior to your period. In this case, the diarrhea may be part of a group of symptoms, usually including mild mood changes, called premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Also avoid caffeine and junk foods as both can cause diarrhea and worsen PMS. Of course, a heating pad, warm water bottle, or warm cloth across your abdominal area can also help relieve the pain brought on by period cramps.