Strained yogurt, Greek yogurt, yogurt cheese, labneh (Arabic: لبنة ‎ labnah), is yogurt which has been strained to remove its whey, resulting in a relatively thick consistency (between that of conventional yogurt and cheese), while preserving yogurt's distinctive, sour taste. Strained yogurt (στραγγιστό γιαούρτι strangisto strangistó giaourti Giaoúrti) in greek is Used in greek food mostly as the base for tzatziki dip and as, a dessert, with honey sour, cherry syrup or spoon sweets often served. on top
With Greek yogurt, the milk and culture combo is then strained with a filter to remove the liquid whey part of milk. The straining process also removes some of the lactose sugars, salt and water. 
When it comes to yogurt, it’s all Greek to – well -- the Greeks. Greek yogurt is the latest diet fad to take over Europe and the United States, with millions of fans across two continents gobbling up the creamy foodstuff that is rich in protein and low in fat. Yet in Greece, many people have never heard of Greek yogurt. 
Yogurt, yoghurt, or yoghourt (/ˈjoʊɡərt/ or /ˈjɒɡət/ ; from Turkish: yoğurt; other spellings listed below) is a food produced by bacterial fermentation of milk. The bacteria used to make yogurt are known as yogurt cultures. Fermentation of lactose by these bacteria produces lactic acid, which acts on milk protein to give yogurt its texture and characteristic tang. Worldwide, cow 's milk, the protein of which is mainly casein, is most commonly used to make yogurt. Milk from water buffalo, goats, ewes, mares, camels, and yaks, however, is also used to produce yogurt in various parts of the world
Cabot of Vermont Greek Yogurt is the best Greek Yogurt in the U.S. market. It has that genuine slight sour taste of good yogurt and the texture is so rich. Try it with muesli in the morning and honey in the afternoon. Greek yogurt is a healthier alternative to the high-calorie feta in Greek salad. In Greece, cooks often marinate lamb chops in creamy Greek yogurt and spices before grilling them. Greek yogurt can prove quite addictive for some people.
Greece is the obvious guess, but the history of where this yogurt originated is unclear. This is because Greek yogurt, or “strained yogurt,” is common in South Asia, the East Mediterranean, the Middle East, the U.S. and Greece. Greek yogurt is created from a centuries-old technique of straining out liquid whey, creating a thick, creamy yogurt without the addition of gums, thickeners or milk fat. This straining method makes Greek yogurt not only denser, but also provides twice the protein, less lactose and fewer carbs than regular yogurt. In the U.S., Greek yogurt has gone from being virtually nonexistent to taking up entire refrigerated sections at almost every grocery store.
Greek yogurt is a type of yogurt that is celebrated for its very thick and creamy texture. The process for making it includes extra steps that result in its thickness. It has about the same creamy texture as sour cream, and provides an excellent substitute. Greek yogurt is a healthier alternative to the high-calorie feta in Greek salad. In Greece, cooks often marinate lamb chops in creamy Greek yogurt and spices before grilling them. Greek yogurt can prove quite addictive for some people.
Traditionally, Greek Yogurt may be made from either ewe’s milk or cow’s milk, though cow’s milk is most commonly found in brands sold in the United States. Its thick and creamy texture, created by straining or boiling away excess liquid, defines it from other types of yogurt. 