Keep in mind that you can no longer cross the Canada-U.S. border using only a driver's licence and birth certificate. Due to changes in U.S. law that took effect June 1, 2009, there are more strict identification requirements for crossing into Canada. 
There is a long, clean view of the massive falls from the Canadian side, which makes the whole of Niagara Falls almost more spectacular when you can see everything all at once. If you’ve come to see the waterfalls and that’s it, this is the place to do it. Make it an all-day event. You can see Niagara Falls for free in both the U.S. and Canada, and you can take the Maid of the Mist (the under-the-falls boat) from both sides as well, but if you want to experience Niagara Falls from as many angles as possible from one country, then visit from the United States side.
It's only a couple of hours at most from Niagara Falls or Niagara on the Lake to Toronto, so you could enjoy a play and then still drive to Toronto, checking into your Toronto hotel before midnight. I would suggest you decide exactly what it is you want to do in Niagara Falls before deciding how many days to spend there. Here is a link that lists the Canadian side attractions: http://www.niagaraparks.com/. Here is a link that lists the US
Our most popular question at Niagara Falls Tourism is information regarding crossing the Canadian and United States border. Visitors to Canada. When you enter Canada, a border services officer may ask to see your passport and a valid visa (if you are arriving from a country from which one is required). 
[Back to top]. Niagara Falls is shared between the United States and Canada. If you want to see the falls from both sides (well worth it), you'll have to abide by the Visa and Passport Requirements for both countries. 
Q: What is the Niagara USA Discovery Pass? A: The Niagara USA Discovery Pass offers up to a 38% discount on all park attractions, as well as additional savings at other nearby attractions. The cost is $38 for adults and $31 for children between the ages of 6 and 12. Click here to learn more. Q: How much does parking cost? A: Parking at Lots #1 and #2 within Niagara Falls State Park is $10 per car. Parking Lot#3 is $8 per car. For more information, visit parking lot locations.
Follow the signs to find parking on the Canadian side of Niagara Falls, and you’ll find yourself driving far, far away. The walk from the parking lot to the falls can be quite long depending on how busy it is. Also, if you park in Canada, expect to pay somewhere around $20.00. Make it an all-day event. You can see Niagara Falls for free in both the U.S. and Canada, and you can take the Maid of the Mist (the under-the-falls boat) from both sides as well, but if you want to experience Niagara Falls from as many angles as possible from one country, then visit from the United States side.
The best way to get around Niagara Falls is on foot. Walking around the area is relatively easy (when there is no snow). Even getting across the United States to Canada border is only a 20-minute walk across the Rainbow Bridge. Attractions are generally close together and within walking distance. The Peoplemover Buses run in a 19-mile loop around all Niagara attractions in Canada. An all-day bus ticket is pretty affordable (a little more than $7 for adults and about $4 for kids). But travelers should note that it ceases operations between the end of October and mid-April.