Courses. Full-time Ph.D. candidates typically take advanced courses during their first 2-3 years of study. The number of course credits required to get a Ph.D. may vary widely, depending on the university's semester or quarter schedule and the doctoral program. The length of time it takes to write and defend a dissertation depends on factors such as the dissertation topic and whether the candidate is a full-or part-time doctoral student. Show me 10 popular schools.
How long does it take to complete the program? Students in the Ph.D. program typically complete the program in 4 to 6 years. Students must take approximately 2 to 2 1/2 years of course work followed by preparing for and passing the qualifying examination, and researching and writing the dissertation. 
Doctor of Education Program Overview. A typical doctorate degree program in education takes approximately three years to finish, although more specialized education degrees, like a Doctor in Science Education, can take as many as seven years to complete. Candidates need to hold master's degrees in education to meet program entrance requirements. General Degree Requirements. Schools often require at least two years of full-time study to complete an Ed.D. program. Some schools require a 3.00 grade point average (GPA), and they will look at transferred credits to ensure students' GPAs meet required levels.
Doctoral Program Lengths. Most doctoral programs take between four and seven years to complete, although schools may allow students up to 11 years to earn a doctorate degree. If you find that you need more time, some schools will grant extensions for extenuating circumstances. 
The amount of time it takes for a PhD student to finish the degree varies widely. Time to degree will depend on the university that the student attends, the field the student is receiving the degree in, the student's previous preparation and coursework and how long it takes the student to complete the dissertation. According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, it takes an average of nine years to finish a humanities PhD. Many academic organizations, administrators and university professors are working to decrease the time it takes to complete the PhD.
It usually takes one to two years to write, but some students end up spending a longer or a shorter amount of time. The amount of time you spend on your dissertation will be an important determining factor in how long it takes to complete the PhD. According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, it takes an average of nine years to finish a humanities PhD. Many academic organizations, administrators and university professors are working to decrease the time
1. A PhD takes twice as long as a bachelor's degree to complete. The average student takes 8.2 years to slog through a PhD program and is 33 years old before earning that top diploma. By that age, most Americans with mere bachelor's degree are well into establishing themselves professionally. 2.
A doctorate degree in education is a terminal degree in many fields, and the length of time it takes to complete depends on several factors. There are several educational paths you can take to earn this degree. View 10 Popular Schools ». General Degree Requirements. Schools often require at least two years of full-time study to complete an Ed.D. program. Some schools require a 3.00 grade point average (GPA), and they will look at transferred credits to ensure students' GPAs meet required levels.