Visit your dentist for an exam. Your dentists will examine your teeth and gums, take x-rays, and assess the extent of your gum disease. She will then have you schedule a deep cleaning and give you instructions on oral hygiene and home care leading up to that appointment. Undergo surgical treatment, if needed. In severe cases, periodontal disease must be addressed with surgery. The most basic surgical option is called flap surgery, in which your dentist or periodontist will make an incision in your gums, lifting them back to clean and remove the tartar underneath.
3. Fill your prescriptions. Your dentist or periodontist may determine that antibiotics are necessary to treat your periodontal disease. After root planing, she may insert antibiotic chips in the gum pockets that will slowly dissolve and release medication to kill bacteria. Undergo surgical treatment, if needed. In severe cases, periodontal disease must be addressed with surgery. The most basic surgical option is called flap surgery, in which your dentist or periodontist will make an incision in your gums, lifting them back to clean and remove the tartar underneath.
Periodontitis. When gingivitis is not treated, it can advance to “periodontitis” (which means “inflammation around the tooth”). In periodontitis, gums pull away from the teeth and form spaces (called “pockets”) that become infected. The body’s immune system fights the bacteria as the plaque spreads and grows below the gum line. 1 Medications. 2  There are hundreds of prescription and over the counter medications that can reduce the flow of saliva, which has a protective effect on the mouth. 3  Without enough saliva, the mouth is vulnerable to infections such as gum disease.
Periodontitis is chronic and occurs when plaque by-products lead to the destruction of the tissues that anchor teeth in the bone. As the disease progresses, pockets form and allow more plaque to collect below the gum line. Tooth roots are exposed and may become at risk for decay and are sensitive to cold and touch. There is no way to accurately predict exactly how long periodontitis will last. Periodontitis is more severe form of gum disuse in which the tissues under the gum line become infected with bacteria, and the gums start pulling away from the teeth.
This form of gum disease does not include any loss of bone and tissue that hold teeth in place. Periodontitis. When gingivitis is not treated, it can advance to periodontitis (which means inflammation around the tooth.) In periodontitis, gums pull away from the teeth and form pockets that are infected. The body's immune system fights the bacteria as the plaque spreads and grows below the gum line. 
If you have advanced periodontitis, your gum tissue may not respond to nonsurgical treatments and good oral hygiene. In that case, periodontitis treatment may require dental surgery, such as: 1  Flap surgery (pocket reduction surgery). 2  In this procedure, your periodontist makes tiny incisions in your gum so that a section of gum tissue can be lifted back, exposing the roots for more effective scaling and root planing. 1 Because periodontitis often causes bone loss, the underlying bone may be recontoured before the gum tissue is sutured back in place. 2  After you heal, it's easier to clean these areas and maintain healthy gum tissue. 3  Soft tissue grafts.
The dentist or hygienist may also: 1  Take an x-ray to see whether there is any bone loss. 2  Refer you to a periodontist. 3  Periodontists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of gum disease and may provide you with treatment options that are not offered by your dentist. 1 Medications. 2  There are hundreds of prescription and over the counter medications that can reduce the flow of saliva, which has a protective effect on the mouth. 3  Without enough saliva, the mouth is vulnerable to infections such as gum disease.
If you have severe gum disease, periodontitis or ANUG, you may need further treatment, such as periodontal surgery. In some cases, it is necessary to remove the affected tooth. Your dentist will be able to tell you about the procedure needed and how it is carried out. In some cases of gum disease, root planing (debridement) may be required. This is a deep clean under the gums that gets rid of bacteria from the roots of your teeth. Before having the treatment, you may need to have a local anaesthetic (painkilling medication) to numb the area.
Periodontal disease is a serious bacterial infection of the gums that, if left untreated, will eventually destroy the gums, ligaments and bones supporting your teeth, leading to tooth loss. Undergo surgical treatment, if needed. In severe cases, periodontal disease must be addressed with surgery. The most basic surgical option is called flap surgery, in which your dentist or periodontist will make an incision in your gums, lifting them back to clean and remove the tartar underneath.
The goal of periodontitis treatment is to thoroughly clean the pockets around teeth and prevent damage to surrounding bone. Treatment may be performed by a periodontist, a dentist or a dental hygienist. You have the best chance for successful treatment when you adopt a daily routine of good oral care. 1 Because periodontitis often causes bone loss, the underlying bone may be recontoured before the gum tissue is sutured back in place. 2  After you heal, it's easier to clean these areas and maintain healthy gum tissue. 3  Soft tissue grafts.