Alprostadil injection is used to treat men who have erectile dysfunction (also called sexual impotence). It belongs to a group of medicines called vasodilators that can increase blood flow by expanding blood vessels. Alprostadil should not be used as a sexual aid by men who do not have erectile dysfunction. If the medicine is not used properly, permanent damage to the penis and loss of the ability to have erections could result.
Alprostadil injection should not be used as a sexual aid by men who do not have erectile dysfunction. If this medicine is not used properly, permanent damage to the penis and loss of the ability to have erections could result. These drugs can increase blood flow by expanding blood vessels. This medicine is identical to a naturally occurring substance found in the body that helps keep the blood vessels open and increases blood flow. Alprostadil helps treat ED by increasing the blood flow to the penis, thus causing an erection.
Alprostadil is also used to improve blood flow in newborn babies with a certain genetic heart condition. This alprostadil medication guide addresses only the adult male use of this medication in erectile disorders. Alprostadil relaxes blood vessels and muscles in the penis. 
Alprostadil is used to treat erectile dysfunction (impotence) and to help diagnose certain causes of this disorder. Alprostadil is also used to improve blood flow in newborn babies with a certain genetic heart condition. 
This increases blood flow into the penis, causing an erection. Alprostadil may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Alprostadil is used to treat erectile dysfunction (impotence) and to help diagnose certain causes of this disorder. Alprostadil is also used to improve blood flow in newborn babies with a certain genetic heart condition. To make sure you can safely use alprostadil, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  a history of blood clots; 2  heart disease, high blood pressure (hypertension); 3  a bleeding or blood-clotting disorder; or. 4  a disease that could be passed in blood (such as hepatitis or HIV).
Alprostadil is a type of medicine that causes blood vessels to expand, increasing blood flow throughout the body. By increasing blood flow to the penis, alprostadil helps facilitate an erection. Alprostadil delivered via a suppository is not as effective as the injection -- it produces an erection in approximately 30%-40% of men with ED. Alprostadil usually begins to work in about five to 20 minutes. Intercourse should be attempted within 10 to 30 minutes after using the medication.
The injectable form of alprostadil is injected into the side of the penis. The transurethral pellet is a very small suppository that is inserted into the opening of the penis (the urethra). Use this medication exactly as it was prescribed for you. To make sure you can safely use alprostadil, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  a history of blood clots; 2  heart disease, high blood pressure (hypertension); 3  a bleeding or blood-clotting disorder; or. 4  a disease that could be passed in blood (such as hepatitis or HIV).
Alprostadil belongs to a group of medicines called vasodilators. These drugs can increase blood flow by expanding blood vessels. This medicine is identical to a naturally occurring substance found in the body that helps keep the blood vessels open and increases blood flow. Alprostadil helps treat ED by increasing the blood flow to the penis, thus causing an erection.
A. Alprostadil is a type of medicine that causes blood vessels to expand, increasing blood flow throughout the body. By increasing blood flow to the penis, alprostadil helps facilitate an erection. Alprostadil can be given either by injection or as a suppository. When given as a suppository, the drug is placed into the opening at the tip of the penis. When injected, a needle and syringe is used to inject the drug directly into the penis. Alprostadil delivered via a suppository is not as effective as the injection -- it produces an erection in approximately 30%-40% of men with ED. Alprostadil usually begins to work in about five to 20 minutes. Intercourse should be attempted within 10 to 30 minutes after using the medication.
Alprostadil injection should not be used as a sexual aid by men who do not have erectile dysfunction. If this medicine is not used properly, permanent damage to the penis and loss of the ability to have erections could result. A new drug called Vitaros allows people to use Alprostadil without injections or needles. This medicine is identical to a naturally occurring substance found in the body that helps keep the blood vessels open and increases blood flow. Alprostadil helps treat ED by increasing the blood flow to the penis, thus causing an erection.