The Earth's Moon is the fifth largest in the whole solar system, and is bigger than the planet Pluto. The Moon has a nearly circular orbit (e=0.05) which is tilted about 5 to the plane of the Earth's orbit. Its average distance from the Earth is 384,400 km. The combination of the Moon's size and its distance from the Earth causes the Moon to appear the same size in the sky as the Sun, which is one reason we can have total solar eclipses.
The 'dark' side of the moon. The moon orbits the Earth once every 27.322 days. It also takes approximately 27 days for the moon to rotate once on its axis. As a result, the moon does not seem to be spinning but appears to observers from Earth to be keeping almost perfectly still. Scientists call this sychronous rotation. The moon travels around the Earth in an elliptical orbit, a slightly stretched-out circle. When the moon is closest to Earth, its rotation is slower than its journey through space, allowing observers to see an additional 8 degrees on the eastern side.
The moon's orbit is inclined about 51/2 degrees relative to the plane of the Earth's orbit. For one thing, this explains why we don't have a lunar eclipse at every Full Mo … on, and a solar eclipse at every New Moon. Since the Moon is travelling with sufficient … velocity, it does not fall into the Earth, but rather orbits around the Earth. The mutual attractive force between the Earth and Moon, due to gravity, keeps the two bodies in a state of mutual revolution.
How much of it we see depends on the moon's position in relation to Earth and the sun. Though a satellite of Earth, the moon, with a diameter of about 2,159 miles (3,475 kilometers), is bigger than Pluto. (Four other moons in our solar system are even bigger.). The moon is a bit more than one-fourth (27 percent) the size of Earth, a much smaller ratio (1:4) than any other planets and their moons. This means the moon has a great effect on the planet and very possibly is what makes life on Earth possible. Moon phases and the moon's orbit are mysteries to many. For example, the moon always shows us the same face. That happens because it takes 27.3 days both to rotate on its axis and to orbit Earth. We see either the full moon, half moon or no moon (new moon) because the moon reflects sunlight.
The Moon orbits Earth in the prograde direction and completes one revolution in approximately 27.322 days (a sidereal month). Earth and the Moon orbit about their barycentre (common center of mass), which lies about 4600 km from Earth's center (about three quarters of the radius of Earth). On average, the Moon is at a distance of about 385000 km from Earth's center, which corresponds to about 60 Earth radii. With a mean orbital velocity of 1.023 km/s, the Moon moves relative to the stars each hour by an amount roughly equal to its angular diameter, or by about 0.5°. The Moon differs from most satellites of other planets in that its orbit is close to the plane of the ecliptic, and not to Earth's equatorial plane. The mean inclination of the lunar orbit to the ecliptic plane is 5.145°. The rotational axis of the Moon is also not perpendicular to its orbital plane, so the lunar equator is not in the plane of its orbit, but is inclined to it by a constant value of 6.688° (this is the obliquity).
The Moon orbits the Earth, and the Earth orbits the Sun, and the Sun orbits the center of the Milky Way, which orbits within the Local Group, which is a part of the Virgo Supercluster. The motions of objects in the cosmos act like a set of Russian nesting dolls, with things orbiting things, which orbit other things. 
Gravitational forces cause the Earth to pull on the Moon, and the Moon to pull on the Earth (Earth is about 81 times as massive). Since the Moon is travelling with sufficient … velocity, it does not fall into the Earth, but rather orbits around the Earth. The mutual attractive force between the Earth and Moon, due to gravity, keeps the two bodies in a state of mutual revolution.
The Moon's orbit about the Earth lies in a plane which is tilted by about 5.15° with respect to the plane of the Earth's orbit about the Sun. (If this tilt was zero, we would have total solar and lunar eclipses every month!) The additional gravity of the Sun creates several complications. This variation is due to the Moon's elliptical orbit. As Kepler's first law implies, all orbits are ellipses, but most planets (and large satellites) have orbits which differ only slightly from circles. In contrast, the Moon's orbit is definitely not a circle.
The Earth and Moon keep in orbit due to a balance between gravity (from the Sun or the Earth) and inertia (due to the Earth's velocity around the Sun or the Moon's velocity ar … ound the Earth). Therefore, the Earth does not smash into the Sun, nor does it fly out to outer space. Since the Moon is travelling with sufficient … velocity, it does not fall into the Earth, but rather orbits around the Earth. The mutual attractive force between the Earth and Moon, due to gravity, keeps the two bodies in a state of mutual revolution.
4.1 Introduction. The Moon revolves around Earth in an elliptical orbit with a mean eccentricity of 0.0549. Thus, the Moon's center-to-center distance from Earth varies with mean values of 363,396 km at perigee to 405,504 km at apogee. It illustrates the Moon's orbit around Earth and Earth's orbit around the Sun. The relative sizes and distances of the Sun, Moon, and Earth as well as the eccentricity of the Moon's orbit are all exaggerated for clarity. The major axis of the Moon's orbit marks the positions of perigee and apogee.