An academic term (or simply term) is a portion of an academic year, the time during which an educational institution holds classes. The schedules adopted vary widely. 1  A trimester system divides the academic year into three terms which can be as short as eight weeks or as long as 16 weeks each. The semester system divides the calendar year into two semesters of 16 to 18 weeks each, plus summer sessions of varying lengths. The two semesters together constitute 32 to 36 weeks of instruction, so that three academic quarters equal two academic semesters.
How long does a semester last in college? A semester divides the school year into two equal parts. This means that if the academic year is 32 weeks, each semester is 16 weeks long. In different countries, in different … colleges and universities, the academic year has no standard, so the length may vary. A community college semester lasts roughly 4.5 months. This will  vary depending on how long each specific college allows for  Christmas break and New Years break.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The length of a semester varies per institution. For most colleges/universities, a typical Fall or Spring semester is between 14 and 16 weeks. Summer terms are shorter and more varied; some courses last 3 or 4 weeks whereas others might last 10 or 12 weeks. Source(s): college instructor.
Semester Length Courses. The training center offers the required classes leading to the Associate in Arts Degree and/or a Certificate of Achievement in the Criminal Justice field. Students in this program have the opportunity to: 1  Earn an AA Degree. 
In some cases quarters vary in length, although the typical quarter lasts 10 or 11 weeks. Meanwhile, in a semester system students typically attend classes for two “semesters” each year, typically a fall semester and a spring semester. Length of these terms can also vary and in many cases a shortened 3-4 week session is held in the month of January, often called “J-Term”. 
There are several different semester lengths that make up a year of college education. The length of your school's semester can determine how many classes you need to take per semester and how long it will take for you to complete your program. Not all schools offer each class every semester; keep this in mind when trying to plan your schedule. A typical college semester can be defined as fifteen weeks long, depending on the school. With a typical fifteen-week-long semester, the academic calendar is divided into three semesters. The fall and spring semesters will both be fifteen weeks long and the third semester, summer, will usually be shorter.
How long does a semester last in college? A semester divides the school year into two equal parts. This means that if the academic year is 32 weeks, each semester is 16 weeks long. In different countries, in different … colleges and universities, the academic year has no standard, so the length may vary. Confidence votes 92.5K. For a college or university that operates on a two semester academic year, a semester is approximately 16 weeks. Fall semester runs from September through December, and Spring semester from January through May.
Shorter Semesters. The length of a college semester is also determined by how many semesters the college has in its academic calendar. Some colleges might have two summer semesters that are very short in length, usually six weeks each. A typical college semester can be defined as fifteen weeks long, depending on the school. With a typical fifteen-week-long semester, the academic calendar is divided into three semesters. The fall and spring semesters will both be fifteen weeks long and the third semester, summer, will usually be shorter.