MAC Address Case Sensitivity. I'm trying to connect Macintosh Power Book with OS X+ and three WinXP machines to internet through my SMC7004VBR router and Surfboard SB4100 modem. The MAC addresses of all four machines have been entered into the firewall set up. (2) does not allow the Macintosh computer whose Ethernet address includes a lower case d access to the WAN, and (3) the Macintosh computer is not listed by WinXP as a Workgroup computer. Special care has been exercised to not confuse the number zero and the letter oh when entering the MAC/Ethernet address.
Hostname doesn't matter where DHCP is concerned (in DD-WRT anyway). I personally only ever enter MAC addresses in uppercase as that's 'the way they are' and have no issues with multi-boot machines/different hostnames with the same MAC address. The MAC-address is binary. What you see is just a representation for your eyes to read. Yes, Windows uses uppercase and dashes between their hexadecimal representation and Linux uses colons and lowercase. The communication is still binary.
A media access control address (MAC address), also called physical address, is a unique identifier assigned to network interfaces for communications on the physical network segment. MAC addresses are used as a network address for most IEEE 802 network technologies, including Ethernet and WiFi. Logically, MAC addresses are used in the media access control protocol sublayer of the OSI reference model. MAC addresses are most often assigned by the manufacturer of a network interface controller (NIC) and are stored in its hardware, such as the card's read-only memory or some other firmware mechanism.
In reply to: Case Sensitivity. One post here states that USER names CAN BE case-sensitive, and a later post states that DOMAIN names CAN BE case-sensitive. The standard quoted below indicates that the former is true. When creating a new email address, use only lower case characters to rule out any confusion
If you need a case-sensitive file system for some special purpose, you can use another partition, or create a disk image file, with a case-sensitive format. You can use upper and lower case in the short name when you create the account, and it will give your home folder a name with the matching upper and lower case. When you format a disk you can choose a case-sensitive file system, but it is not recommended for the main OSX partition because some applications will fail (different parts of the application mistakenly use different case when referring to the same file).
The MAC address is used by the Media Access Control sublayer of the Data-Link Layer (DLC) of telecommunication protocol s. There is a different MAC sublayer for each physical device type. The other sublayer level in the DLC layer is the Logical Link Control sublayer. This was first published in September 2005. 
Can't vouch for how Gentoo as haven't/won't use it but all other distro's i've used work fine with Static DHCP, i even use Solaris (for x86) fine under Static DHCP. Of course Linux is case sensitive but ifconfig displaying the MAC address in lowercase will just be a 'display' thing, ie the way it's displayed on screen. The MAC-address is binary. What you see is just a representation for your eyes to read. Yes, Windows uses uppercase and dashes between their hexadecimal representation and Linux uses colons and lowercase. The communication is still binary.
The Macintosh machine can access internet when the MAC access control firewall feature is disabled. The eithernet address of the Macintosh computer includes lower case letters. Those lower case letters are automatically changed to upper case when I seek to apply the new MAC address to the SMC firewall settings. I suspect my problem is due to the SMC7004VBR not recognizing the lower case characters in the MAC address. (2) does not allow the Macintosh computer whose Ethernet address includes a lower case d access to the WAN, and (3) the Macintosh computer is not listed by WinXP as a Workgroup computer. Special care has been exercised to not confuse the number zero and the letter oh when entering the MAC/Ethernet address.
The answer to the question whether email addresses are case sensitive—whether it matters if you type ReCipiENt@eXaMPle.cOm or RECIPIENT@EXAMPLE.COM or recipient@example.com—has to do with these elements of an email address. The domain name part of an email address is case insensitive (i.e. case does not matter). The local mailbox part, however, is case sensitive. The email address ReCipiENt@eXaMPle.cOm is indeed different from recipient@example.com (but it the same as ReCipiENt@example.com)