Brussels Airport has two departure halls. The main hall is used by all airlines, with the exception of Jetairfly and Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium. Those two airlines operate from a smaller departure hall next to departure hall 1 as of 30 March 2010. It is located partially in Zaventem, partially in the Diegem area of Machelen, and partially in Steenokkerzeel, in the Flemish Region of Belgium. It is home to around 260 companies, together directly employing 20,000 people and serves as the home base for Brussels Airlines,
One day later, Ryanair announced the opening of a second Belgian base at Brussels Airport, giving a boost to low-cost traffic at Brussels Airport. Ryanair announced on 27 November 10 new routes from Brussels Airport, although Brussels-South Charleroi Airport will remain the low-cost carrier's primary Belgian base. It is located partially in Zaventem, partially in the Diegem area of Machelen, and partially in Steenokkerzeel, in the Flemish Region of Belgium. It is home to around 260 companies, together directly employing 20,000 people and serves as the home base for Brussels Airlines, Jetairfly and Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium.
Pier A is the newest pier on Brussels Airport and was opened on 15 May 2002. This pier was destined to support flights from and to the Schengen countries (A-gates). However, since 15 October 2008 all Brussels Airlines flights to African destinations are also handled at this pier. It is located partially in Zaventem, partially in the Diegem area of Machelen, and partially in Steenokkerzeel, in the Flemish Region of Belgium. It is home to around 260 companies, together directly employing 20,000 people and serves as the home base for Brussels Airlines, Jetairfly and Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium.
The Brussels City Shuttle line runs direct from the airport to Brussels city center every 30 minutes, starting at 3:30AM. Additional shuttle lines travel to Lille, Bruges, Ghent, Luxembourg and Metz. The airport drop-off location is in front of terminal Entrance 1. This special ticket includes the train ride to Charleroi-South station and the ride on TEC bus A to the airport. Tickets can also be purchased at the airport terminal, in vending machines located outside of Door 2. Flibco.com shuttle buses offer an easy and convenient way to travel to Brussels and nearby cities.
Brussels South Charleroi Airport (IATA code CRL) is located 60km south of the central train station. Several budget airlines, including Ryanair and Wizzair operate service from this airport to cities such as Barcelona, Belgrade, Budapest, Dublin, Edinburgh, Manchester, Rome, Sofia, Vilnius and Warsaw. 1 With your Thalys ticket you can also take a local train to or from Central-Centraal, Nord-Noord, Schuman and Luxembourg/Luxemburg stations. 2  edit. 3  Fyra, [2]. 4  A Fyra from Amsterdam (2h01, via Schiphol Airport, Rotterdam, Antwerp), connects to Brussels Midi/Zuid.
Brussels Airport (IATA: BRU, ICAO: EBBR) (also called Brussel-Nationaal / Bruxelles-National (Brussels-National) or Brussel-Zaventem) is an international airport 6 NM (11 km; 6.9 mi) northeast of Brussels, the capital of Belgium. It is located partially in Zaventem, partially in the Diegem area of Machelen, and partially in Steenokkerzeel, in the Flemish Region of Belgium. It is home to around 260 companies, together directly employing 20,000 people and serves as the home base for Brussels Airlines, Jetairfly and Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium.
Rail: Airport City Express trains go to Brussels' three main stations: Brussels Central, Brussels North and Brussels Midi (journey time: 16-25 minutes, fare €7.80). The high-speed Diabolo service connects Brussels Airport to Antwerp in a little over 30 minutes, while direct trains are also available to Ghent, De Panne, Leuven, Landen, Quievrain/Quiévrain, Quevy quévy Paris. and cologne
Brussels Airport is Belgium’s busiest and is strategically placed for access to the country’s capital, NATO headquarters and European Union buildings. The high-speed Diabolo service connects Brussels Airport to Antwerp in a little over 30 minutes, while direct trains are also available to Ghent, De Panne, Leuven, Landen, Quievrain/Quiévrain, Quevy quévy Paris. and cologne
Javascript is currently disabled in your browser. Arrivals& Departures Timetable Budgetflightsout ofBrussels Airport To & fromBrussels Airport Parking at the airport Worldwidebudget flights &city trips Informationon air trafficto & fromBrussels Airport Shops,bars &restaurants Baggage&TravelInfo. 
The high-speed Diabolo service connects Brussels Airport to Antwerp in a little over 30 minutes, while direct trains are also available to Ghent, De Panne, Leuven, Landen, Quievrain/Quiévrain, Quevy quévy Paris. And cologne further information is Available From (belgian: +railways tel 32 2; 528.2828.www). belgianrail be The high-speed Diabolo service connects Brussels Airport to Antwerp in a little over 30 minutes, while direct trains are also available to Ghent, De Panne, Leuven, Landen, Quievrain/Quiévrain, Quevy quévy Paris. and cologne