The GLA gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called alpha-galactosidase A. This enzyme is active in lysosomes, which are structures that act as recycling centers within cells. Lysosomes use digestive enzymes to process worn-out cell components and recycle usable parts.
Alpha galactosidase is an enzyme that has several different functions. It is used by intestinal microorganisms to degrade the sugars in the complex carbohydrates found in vegetables and grains. This process often leads to the production of gases that can cause bloating and flatulence.
Alpha-Galactosidase. Tweet. Alpha-galactosidase is an enzyme, which is derived from the fungus Aspergillus niger. It’s a homodimeric glycoprotein and it hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties (in chemistry moiety is defined as a functional group on a molecule) from glycolipids and glycoproteins.
It hydrolyzes molecules from glycolipids and glycoproteins found in complex sugars. On a cellular level, alpha-galactosidase causes an important reaction in the cellular lysosome, an organelle inside our cells that is crucial in the breakdown of multiple types of biomolecules.
Alpha-galactosidase is an important enzyme that assists in the digestion of fat and complex sugars. Starchy foods and fats are more difficult for the body to break down during digestion than other nutrients.
Alpha-galactosidase is additionally a digestive enzyme with several other functions. Utilized by microorganisms within the intestines, it degrades sugars and turns them into carbohydrates that are found in grains and vegetables. The process leads to gas production, bloating as well as flatulence.
The alpha-galactosidase enzyme can help digest sugars and fats. When it’s missing, complex sugars and fats can easily build up within the gut, and afterwards throughout the body. When there’s not enough alpha-galactosidase in the system, fat that is weakly digested can accumulate in the heart’s chambers and muscles.
The product VeganZyme™ contains a 100% vegan form of Alpha Galactosidase produced by the natural fermentation process of Aspergillis Niger. It comes from all vegetarian, non-GMO sources, is kosher certified, gluten free, made in the USA, contains no animal product and is completely suitable for vegetarians and vegans.