1 This usually is the smallest unit of distribution or use and is the package which is in direct contact with the contents. 2  Secondary packaging is outside the primary packaging, perhaps used to group primary packages together. 3  Tertiary packaging is used for bulk handling, warehouse storage and transport shipping. 1 Information transmission – Packages and labels communicate how to use, transport, recycle, or dispose of the package or product. 2  With pharmaceuticals, food, medical, and chemical products, some types of information are required by governments. 3  Some packages and labels also are used for track and trace purposes.
We went to the source to find out more, asking GS1 US for an update on the status of traceability for food packaging. Responding to our inquiry in this Q&A is Angela Fernandez, vice president of retail grocery and foodservice, GS1 US. GS1 US has devoted several work streams in foodservice and retail grocery industries to enhancing traceability procedures based on GS1 Standards – the most visible being the Produce Traceability Initiative (PTI).
GDSN Data Quality Framework. GS1, along with AIM, CGF, ECR Europe, FMI, and GMA have developed a best practice framework for global data quality and a recommendation for the GDSN: 1  A data quality management system to help improve the quality of data as published in the network. 1 A data quality management system to help improve the quality of data as published in the network. 2  An assessment procedure to validate the existence and effectiveness of key data management business processes. 3  This assessment may lead to a compliance statement.
2. The packaging industry is the world’s third largest industry sector, next only to food and petrochemical industries. It is also among the top five industries in almost all countries, with its annual growth rate of 3-5%, which is a range even higher than the GDP’s growth rate in almost all countries.3. The state of the packaging industry (based on selected country samples) is presented in Table 2, highlighting regional differences on the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT) as derived from their respective food industry’s status and development.
Packaging is the technology of enclosing or protecting products for distribution, storage, sale, and use. Packaging also refers to the process of design, evaluation, and production of packages. Packaging can be described as a coordinated system of preparing goods for transport, warehousing, logistics, sale, and end use. Packaging contains, protects, preserves, transports, informs, and sells. 1 Information transmission – Packages and labels communicate how to use, transport, recycle, or dispose of the package or product. 2  With pharmaceuticals, food, medical, and chemical products, some types of information are required by governments. 3  Some packages and labels also are used for track and trace purposes.
Email. Filed Under: While track-and-trace has made inroads into pharmaceuticals (see GS1 weighs in on current track-and-trace developments), there remains somewhere around the next bend the use of traceability to help improve safety in the supply chain for packaged foods. GS1 US has devoted several work streams in foodservice and retail grocery industries to enhancing traceability procedures based on GS1 Standards – the most visible being the Produce Traceability Initiative (PTI).
Crown Holdings discusses four plant closures in Q3 2015 results. Crown Holdings announced the closure of two North American food can plants, in Baltimore, Maryland and Chatham, Ontario, in Q3 2015 and as part of the company’s restructure it is closing two European food facilities. 
CEO Miguel Lopera shares GS1 standards for sustainable farming with the United Nations. Governments, farmers and businesses collaborate to develop economic, social and environmentally sustainable agriculture. We empower organisations to grow efficiently, sustainably and safely — helping transform the way we work and live.
Sustainability. Consumers, retailers and increasingly regulators demand that companies produce reliable information about the sustainability of their products and services. Product packaging and the provenance of raw materials are particularly sensitive issues. GS1 provides a common set of standards to share sustainability information widely, whatever your role in the supply chain. 
GDSN Major Release 3, setting the foundation for the future of commerce. The new GDSN Major Release 3 will enable sharing of richer and more accurate product information for today's data-hungry consumers. We empower organisations to grow efficiently, sustainably and safely — helping transform the way we work and live.