Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of coax from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.
coax 1. v. coaxed, coax·ing, coax·es. v. tr. 1. To persuade or try to persuade by pleading or flattery; cajole. 2. To obtain by persistent persuasion: coaxed the secret out of the child. 3. Obsolete To caress; fondle. 4. 
Verb [edit]. coax ‎(third-person singular simple present coaxes, present participle coaxing, simple past and past participle coaxed). ( 1 obsolete) To fondle, kid, pet, tease. 2  To wheedle, persuade (a person, organisation, animal etc.) gradually or by use of flattery to do something. She was so mad she wouldn't speak to me for quite a spell, but at last I coaxed her into going up to Miss Emmeline's room and fetching down a tintype of the missing Deacon man. 1  12 July 2012, Sam Adams, AV Club Ice Age: Continental Drift.
verb. request silence, action, or inaction for money. 1  approach. 2  buy. 3  buy back. 4  buy off. 5  coax. 6  corrupt. 7  do business. 8  entice. 9  fix. 10  get at. 11  get to. 12  grease palm. 13  influence. 14  instigate. 15  lubricate. 16  lure. 17  make a deal. 18  oil palm. 19  pay off. 20  pervert. 21  reward. 22  seduce. 23  soap. 24  square. 25  suborn. 26  sugar. 27  sweeten the pot. 28  take care of. 29  tamper. 30  tempt. 31  tip. 
'coax' in Other Languages. 1  British English: coax If you coax someone into doing something, you gently try to persuade them to do it. 2  VERBAfter lunch, she watched, listened, and coaxed him into talking about himself. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: persuadir com meiguice. 4  Chinese: 劝诱 劝勸诱誘. 1 = persuade, cajole, talk into, wheedle, sweet-talk (informal), prevail upon, inveigle, soft-soap (informal), twist (someone's) arm, flatter, entice, beguile, allure • After lunch she
coax. To allure is to draw as with a lure by some charm or some prospect of pleasure or advantage. We may attract others to a certain thing without intent; as, the good unconsciously attract others to virtue. We may allure either to that which is evil or to that which is good and noble, by purpose and endeavor, as in the familiar line,  Allured to brighter worlds, and led the way,. Deserted Village, l. 170. Lure is rather more akin to the physical nature. It is the word we would use of drawing on an animal. Coax expresses the attraction of the person, not of the thing. A man may be coaxed to that which is by no means alluring. Win may be used in either a bad or a good sense, in which latter it surpasses the highest sense of allure, because it succeeds in that which allure attempts; as, He that winneth souls is wise, Prov. xi, 30. Synonyms: allure, attract, cajole, captivate, decoy, draw, entice, inveigle, lure, seduce, tempt, win.
We may attract others to a certain thing without intent; as, the good unconsciously attract others to virtue. We may allure either to that which is evil or to that which is good and noble, by purpose and endeavor, as in the familiar line,  Allured to brighter worlds, and led the way,. Deserted Village, l. 170. Lure is rather more akin to the physical nature. It is the word we would use of drawing on an animal. Coax expresses the attraction of the person, not of the thing. A man may be coaxed to that which is by no means alluring
1 British English: coax If you coax someone into doing something, you gently try to persuade them to do it. 2  VERBAfter lunch, she watched, listened, and coaxed him into talking about himself. 1 = persuade, cajole, talk into, wheedle, sweet-talk (informal), prevail upon, inveigle, soft-soap (informal), twist (someone's) arm, flatter, entice, beguile, allure • After lunch she
: to influence or persuade (a person or animal) to do something by talking in a gentle and friendly way. : to get (something) by talking in a gentle and friendly way. : to cause (something) to do something by making a careful and continual effort. 
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.