Tapioca comes from the cassava root. Tapioca starch is a thickening agent often used in pie fillings, puddings, soups and sauces. It helps bind the ingredient together so the final product isn't syrupy or watery. Tapioca also provides a sheen to the cooked food, which gives cherry pie filling or a chocolate pudding its glossy appearance.
Leave a Comment. I just received an e-mail asking me about using tapioca starch to thicken soups and desserts. Tapioca, manioc, or cassava starch is a fine white powder produced from the cassava root, which is grown in Central and South America, Florida, the Caribbean Islands, and temperate climates around the world.
Tapioca flour is an extremely smooth flour, which makes for a great thickener in sauces, pies and soups since it never discolors and contains no discernible taste or smell. It can also be used to replace corn starch (use 2 Tbsp tapioca flour for each 1 Tbsp corn starch). Tapioca flour is an alternative to traditional wheat flours and has a variety of uses in baking. The flour is made from the starch extracted from the South American cassava plant.
Tapioca comes from the cassava plant. Photo Credit graphicnoi/iStock/Getty Images. Tapioca starch is made from the root of the cassava plant. Although it can be used as a flour for baking, its mainly used as a thickener. Tapioca is widely used in Asian cuisine, especially in Thai recipes. In India, tapioca starch is sometimes boiled and flavored with spices to eat as a side dish. Wide Cooking Uses. Tapioca starch works well in a number of recipes, making it an appropriate choice for baking pies, making flat breads and creating snacks such as chips and wafers. Because tapioca starch is also a thickener, many cooks use it to thicken soups, puddings and gravies.
Various Applications. TAPIOCA STARCH Starches are basically carbohydrates, known as polysaccharides, i.e., multiple molecules of sugar. For commercial use, they are derived from a variety of cereals like rice, wheat, sorghum, corn and tubers like potato, tapioca, sweet potato, etc. - Manufacturing of tapioca pearl (sago seeds) for dessert dishes. Tapioca starch is a thickener and stabilizer in fruit pies, soups, puddings, breads, sauces, soy and meat products. It can withstand long cooking times without breaking down.
Details. Tapioca flour, also known as tapioca starch, is a starchy white flour that has a slight sweet flavor to it. Tapioca flour is an alternative to traditional wheat flours and has a variety of uses in baking. The flour is made from the starch extracted from the South American cassava plant.
List of Ingredients Tapioca. Tapioca is produced from the starch of the cassava plant. Officially known as Tapioca starch, it differs from Cassava flour in that the Cassava flour is ground from the root itself. Tapioca flour plays an obvious roll in thickening products like pudding, starches and gravy. It plays a more subtle role in baked products like muffins, biscuits, and other baked goods.
4.8 out of 5 stars. Also known as tapioca starch, tapioca flour is a gluten-free baking ingredient and an ideal thickening agent. Use tapioca for thickening a wide variety of baked goods, sauces, and desserts. 
Instant tapioca and tapioca starch are the best choices for thickening. To substitute for wheat flour in a sauce or pie recipe use 1 tablespoon instant tapioca or 1 1/2 teaspoons tapioca starch for each tablespoon wheat flour in the original recipe. Tapioca, manioc, or cassava starch is a fine white powder produced from the cassava root, which is grown in Central and South America, Florida, the Caribbean Islands, and temperate climates around the world.