there is no hemolyzed (which means break-up) blood on a urine strip. when the square for hemoglobin turns from yellow to green, that means that there's blood in the urine. Report Abuse. there is no hemolyzed (which means break-up) blood on a urine strip. when the square for hemoglobin turns from yellow to green, that means that there's blood in the urine. ctb · 10 years ago.
Short explanation: If there is some kind of hemolytic process going on in the body, free hemoglobin may be released into the urine. On the other hand, RBC's in the urine usually indicates some sort of renal failure. 
In medicine, hematuria, or haematuria, is the presence of red blood cells (erythrocytes) in the urine. It may be idiopathic and/or benign, or it can be a sign that there is a kidney stone or a tumor in the urinary tract (kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, prostate, and urethra), ranging from trivial to lethal. 
I do not know how affects urine strip test results. there is no hemolyzed (which means break-up) blood on a urine strip. when the square for hemoglobin turns from yellow to green, that means that there's blood in the urine. hemolyzed means that the red blood cells have popped....when this happens, it can cause the testing to not come out accurately. Some say Nephrologic vs Urologic causes of blood in the urine. the strip is really a screening tool though and either way blood shows up-a follow up evaluation is needed. Haemolysis is the breaking down of red blood cells.
Definition. Seeing blood in your urine can cause anxiety. While in many instances there are benign causes, blood in urine (hematuria) can also indicate a serious disorder. Blood that you can see is called gross hematuria. Urinary blood that's visible only under a microscope is known as microscopic hematuria and is found when your doctor tests your urine. Either way, it's important to determine the reason for the bleeding
Expert: Dr. Das, MD replied 5 years ago. Hello, Hemolyzed blood means that the RBc's have broken down in the urine and cannot be visualized clearly. The commonest causes are kidney stones, infections and tumors in which bleeding is minimal and occurs only from time to time. 
Hemolyzed blood is suggestive of renal sources of blood, while non-hemolyzed suggests urinary tract bleeding. Some say Nephrologic vs Urologic causes of blood in the urine. the strip is really a screening tool though and either way blood shows up-a follow up evaluation is needed. Source(s): MD. Report Abuse. there is no hemolyzed (which means break-up) blood on a urine strip. when the square for hemoglobin turns from yellow to green, that means that there's blood in the urine. ctb · 10 years ago.
BLOOD—Non-Hemolyzed, consider kidney glomerular or urinary tract infection, hypertension, (in female double check for current menstrual cycle.) Hemolyzed, consider oxidative stress, allergy, liver inflammation. Lack of integrity or urinary tract epithelium from low vitamin A, C, bioflavenoids, calcium. In the presence of a positive reading for ASCORBIC ACID (which may increase in the urine from Vitamin C intake, fruit juice or antibiotics), lower level BLOOD readings may occur leading to false negative results.
2. See below: Blood in the urine can indicate an infection but can mean other things as well what it does mean is there is a site in the urinary tract that is bleeding and that means you need to see a physician to find out the cause. ...Read more. Dr. Peter Kurzweil. Urinary tract pathol: You have blood in the urine with/ without any pain, you need to see your doctor asap, you will need blood and urine test, a cat scan of your kidneys to find
Hemolyzed blood is suggestive of renal sources of blood, while non-hemolyzed suggests urinary tract bleeding. Some say Nephrologic vs Urologic causes of blood in the urine. the strip is really a screening tool though and either way blood shows up-a follow up evaluation is needed. Haemolysis is the breaking down of red blood cells.