MOLECULES OF LIFE. 90% of the human body is composed of just four elements. They are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. . These elements combine to larger units called molecules. There are two types of molecules in our bodies; organic and inorganic. INORGANIC MOLECULES are not made of carbon atoms. 
You can tell if a molecule is polar based on the bonds (i.e. ionic bonds = always polar whereas covalent bonds are only polar when there is an equal distribution of electrons) Examples of nonpolar molecules include hydrocarbons (fats: i.e. oils), which do not dissolve in water. Hope this helps! And good luck :). 
The nature of life on Earth is amazingly complex and diverse. Yet, all life on Earth is composed of the same types of molecules. For instance, all living organisms utilize the same information containing molecules, DNA, to pass on genetic information from generation to generation. We mostly hear about cholesterol as a bad molecule, one that clogs our arteries and shortens the lives of humans. However, cholesterol is an important molecule for life. Cholesterol is one of three main types of lipids often found in cellular membranes.
It has 2 polar O-H bonds, and is polar. The O is slightly negative and the two H's are slightly positive. Water molecules interact among themselves because the partially negative O of one water molecule interacts with the partially positive H of another water molecule. Molecules have covalent bonds, not ionic bonds. Covalent bonds can be either non-polar or polar. A non-polar covalent bond forms between two atoms with the same or very similar electronegativities (the electronegativity of an element is a measure of how strongly it attracts electrons in bonds).
Immunoprecipitation (IP) is the technique of precipitating a protein antigen out of solution using an antibody that specifically binds to that particular protein. Co-IP works by selecting an antibody that targets a known protein that is believed to be a member of a larger complex of proteins. By targeting this known member with an antibody it may become possible to pull the entire protein complex out of solution and thereby identify unknown members of the complex.
A taste receptor is a type of receptor which facilitates the sensation of taste. When food or other substances enter the mouth, molecules interact with saliva and are bound to taste receptors in the oral cavity and other locations. Molecules which give a sensation of taste are considered sapid. Object A is a taste bud, object B is one taste cell of the taste bud, and object C is the neuron attached to the taste cell. I. Part I shows the reception of a molecule. 1. Sugar, the first messenger, binds to a protein receptor on the cell membrane. II. Part II shows the transduction of the relay molecules