At this point a  president has been impeached.. A trial is then conducted by the  Senate.    Only two Presidents in US History have been  impeached by the House of Representatives.   -- President Andrew Johnson was impeached in 1868  for violating the Tenure of Office Act. Only 2 Presidents have been impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton; however, in both cases the Senate fell short of the necessary 2/3 needed to remove them from of … fice. Note: Richard Nixon was never impeached. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution.
The trial is then held by the Senate. Neither Johnson or Clinton were convicted, so both remained in office. Other federal officials besides the President can be impeached by the House and tried by the Senate. The fact that only two US presidents have been impeached lends a good deal of gravity to impeachment. Only 2 Presidents have been impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton; however, in both cases the Senate fell short of the necessary 2/3 needed to remove them from of … fice. Note: Richard Nixon was never impeached. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution.
-- President Bill Clinton was impeached in 1998 on  obstruction of justice charges.   Both men were acquitted by the Senate.   (Richard Nixon resigned in 1974 rather than face  impeachment charges which the House was preparing against him. )   2 presidents, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton. Only 2 Presidents have been impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton; however, in both cases the Senate fell short of the necessary 2/3 needed to remove them from of … fice. Note: Richard Nixon was never impeached. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution.
Outside of the 15 federal judges impeached by the House, two Presidents (Andrew Johnson in 1868 and William Jefferson (Bill) Clinton in 1998), a cabinet secretary (William Belknap in 1876), and a U.S. Senator (William Blount of North Carolina in 1797) have also been impeached. “The President, Vice President and all Civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.”. — U.S. Constitution, Article II, section 4.
The White House. Clinton, the nation's 42nd president, was impeached by the House of Representatives on December 19, 1998, for allegedly misleading a grand jury about his extramarital affair with Lewinsky in the White House, and then persuading others to lie about it, too. Though Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton are the only two presidents to have been impeached, two others came very close to being charged with crimes. Related: 5 Members of Congress Who Want to Impeach Obama.
President will face Senate trial on perjury, obstruction of justice charges. WASHINGTON (AllPolitics, December 19) -- A deeply divided House of Representatives impeached President Bill Clinton Saturday on charges of lying under oath to a federal grand jury and obstructing justice in the Monica Lewinsky affair. The two allegations of high crimes and misdemeanors next go to the Senate for trial. 
The only two presidents to have been impeached by the House are Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton. Both of the trials resulted in the president in question remaining in office, although Andrew Johnson remained in office by only one vote. The only presidents to ever be in peach by the House of  Representatives are Andrew Johnson and William Jefferson Clinton.  Andrew Johnson in 1868 and Bill Clinton in 1998. Edit.
There have been two presidents who have been impeached. In 1868, Andrew Johnson was impeached by th … e House for violating certain statutes related to government processes; in 1998, Bill Clinton was impeached for perjury and obstruction of justice. Only 2 Presidents have been impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton; however, in both cases the Senate fell short of the necessary 2/3 needed to remove them from of … fice. Note: Richard Nixon was never impeached. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution.
The House Committee of Impeachment Managers in the Senate Chamber, Washington, D.C. “The President, Vice President and all Civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.”. — U.S. Constitution, Article II, section 4. The Constitution gives the House of Representatives the sole power to impeach an official, and it makes the Senate the sole court for impeachment trials
U.S. WASHINGTON, Dec. 19— William Jefferson Clinton was impeached on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice today by a divided House of Representatives, which recommended virtually along party lines that the Senate remove the nation's 42d President from office. 