1 Add water to pan. 2  In a small bowl, combine the honey, brown sugar, cloves and mustard; pour over ham. 3  Bake, uncovered, at 325° for 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until a meat thermometer reads 140°, basting with pan juices often. 4  Add additional water to the pan if necessary. 1 deep. 2  Place on a rack in a well-greased foil-lined roasting pan. 3  Add water to pan. 4  In a small bowl, combine the honey, brown sugar, cloves and mustard; pour over ham. 5
How to Bake a Fully-Cooked Semi-Boneless Ham. A baked ham on a plate with vegetables. Photo Credit Igor Dutina/iStock/Getty Images. A semi-boneless ham gives you the best of both worlds: the shank bone is removed for ease of carving, but the leg bone remains to give the ham more flavor. Nutritionally speaking, a 3 oz. serving of cooked ham contains roughly 140 calories, 10 g of fat and almost 800 mg of sodium
1 In a small bowl, combine the honey, brown sugar, cloves and mustard; pour over ham. 2  Bake, uncovered, at 325° for 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until a meat thermometer reads 140°, basting with pan juices often. 3  Add additional water to the pan if necessary. 4  Yield: 10 servings. 1 deep. 2  Place on a rack in a well-greased foil-lined roasting pan. 3  Add water to pan. 4  In a small bowl, combine the honey, brown sugar, cloves and mustard; pour over ham. 5
1 Open package Remove all wrapping If desired, score ham 1/4 inch-with sharp knife and insert cloves or your favorite spice Place ham in baking dish and lightly cover with foil Preheat oven 325 Degrees Bake at 325 Degrees 10-15 minutes per pound Remove foil last half-hour to glaze or garnish. 
1 Place on a rack in a well-greased foil-lined roasting pan. 2  Add water to pan. 3  In a small bowl, combine the honey, brown sugar, cloves and mustard; pour over ham. 4  Bake, uncovered, at 325° for 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until a meat thermometer reads 140°, basting with pan juices often. 1 deep. 2  Place on a rack in a well-greased foil-lined roasting pan. 3  Add water to pan. 4  In a small bowl, combine the honey, brown sugar, cloves and mustard; pour over ham. 5
1 Remove outer wrapper before cooking. 2  Place ham in ½ - 1 inch of water or liquid on bottom of baking pan and cover with lid or completely seal with foil. 3  Bake approximately 15 minutes per pound or to an internal temperature of 140°F. Roast. 1  Preheat oven to 325°F. 2  Remove outer wrapper before cooking. 3  Place ham in ½ - 1 inch of water or liquid on bottom of baking pan and cover with lid or completely seal with foil. 4
Place boneless ham on rack in shallow pan. 1. Bake ham uncovered in preheated oven for the allotted amount of time or until meat thermometer inserted in the middle of the meat registers 140 degrees F. Remove ham from the oven and cover loosely with foil and let set for 10 to 15 minutes before carving. Slice and serve. Refrigerate leftovers
Step 2: Baking the ham. Place the ham on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. Insert an oven-safe thermometer into the center of the ham (it should not touch the bone of a bone-in ham). Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven until ham registers desired temperature (140°F for cooked ham). Boneless hams are simple to slice. Spiral-cut: Fully cooked bone-in or boneless ham that is presliced for easier serving and often comes with a glaze packet. Water or brine added: Fully cooked ham injected with brine or with water added.
Step 4. Put the ham in the oven and cook for 15 to 18 minutes per pound for a whole ham, 18 to 24 minutes for a half ham, or until the internal temperature of the ham reaches 140 F. Brush the ham with the glaze several times during the last hour of cooking. You Might Also Like. A semi-boneless ham gives you the best of both worlds: the shank bone is removed for ease of carving, but the leg bone remains to give the ham more flavor.