Almost all costs involved in eyelid surgery —whether for upper eyelid surgery, lower eyelid surgery or both—are dependent on how long the procedure is likely to take. You can expect treatment costs to fall within the following ranges: 1  Cost of upper eyelid blepharoplasty – $2,500 – 4,500 (AUD). 
The average cost of eyelid surgery is $2,874, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Blepharoplasty costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon's cost for eyelid surgery may vary based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, as well as geographic office location. Many plastic surgeons offer patient financing plans to help cover blepharoplasty costs, so be sure to ask. Eyelid surgery cost may include: 1  Surgeon’s fee.
1 Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. 2  This includes the anesthesia fee, facility fee and surgeon's fee. Additional costs: 1  In eyelid surgery, the doctor will make an incision in the crease of the upper eyelid, then remove excess skin, tissue and fat. 2  Then, the surgeon will make another cut just below the lashes of the lower eyelid, and will remove excess fat and tissue or redistribute fat to smooth out the eye area.
In comparison to more major forms of cosmetic surgery, blepharoplasty can be done for a relatively low cost. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
The cost of eyelid surgery (blepharoplasty) varies based on several factors, including the expertise of the surgeon, extent of the procedure and whether it's done as a standalone surgery or in combination with other procedures, such as a brow lift or injectables. The total cost can range from $2,000 to $5,000 or higher. Why the big range? Among other variables, the extent of the surgery plays a major role in determining cost. For example, upper and lower lid blepharoplasty costs about twice as much as lower lid blepharoplasty alone.
Your surgeon will assess your brow position as well as the extent of excess skin, skin laxity and fat deposits to determine the technique that will give you the best results. Eyelid surgery can cost between $1,500 and $7,000 depending on whether you are having upper lids, lower lids, or both eyelids done. 
Eyelid Surgery Fees. When a patient pays for blepharoplasty, the cost is actually a combination of various fees, the most substantial of which is the surgeon’s fee. According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, in 2004 the average surgeon’s fee for blepharoplasty was $2,523. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
On average, lower eyelid surgery cost is about $2,400, while the price of upper eyelid surgery is usually around $2,100. The cost of laser eyelid surgery is typically higher than that of conventional blepharoplasty and can be anywhere between $3,000 and $5,000. 1  RELATED: Find a qualified plastic surgeon in your area. On average, eyelid surgery will cost around $4,000, though some doctors may charge as low as $2,000 and others as much as $7,000. The different types of eyelid surgery carry various price tags as well.
Eyelid Surgery Cost. 1  Eyelid surgery, also known as blepharoplasty or an eyelid tuck, usually costs between $4,000 and $5,500 for the upper and lower eyelids. Additional costs: 1  In eyelid surgery, the doctor will make an incision in the crease of the upper eyelid, then remove excess skin, tissue and fat. 2  Then, the surgeon will make another cut just below the lashes of the lower eyelid, and will remove excess fat and tissue or redistribute fat to smooth out the eye area.
The total cost for upper and lower blepharoplasty is about $4,000. For the lower lids, the total cost is around $2,500, and upper lid blepharoplasty costs about the same as the lower lid surgery. Eyelid surgery costs tend to be higher in urban areas — like New York City or Dallas — where overhead is more expensive and where surgeons are in greater demand. The cost varies based on whether you are having your lower lids, your upper lids or both sets of eyelids rejuvenated. For example, Asian double eyelid surgery cost reflects the unique technique and experience required for this specialized cosmetic procedure.