Carbon monoxide detectors sound an alarm when they sense a certain amount of carbon monoxide in the air over time. Different types of alarms are triggered by different types of sensors. 1  Biomimetic sensor: A gel changes color when it absorbs carbon monoxide, and this color change triggers the alarm. This sneaky, toxic gas finds its way into your home through a wide range of seemingly harmless sources. Even in small doses carbon monoxide can be harmful and may even cause permanent damage if not caught quickly, and heavy exposure can be lethal in the worst cases.
Do you know what your Smoke Alarm and Carbon Monoxide Alarm sound like? What is the difference? What should you do if either of them activate? 
Carbon monoxide is an odorless, colorless, and tasteless gas that is near impossible to identify without a proper detector. It is caused by fuels not burning completely, including wood, gasoline, coal, propane, natural gas, gasoline, and heating oil. This sneaky, toxic gas finds its way into your home through a wide range of seemingly harmless sources. Even in small doses carbon monoxide can be harmful and may even cause permanent damage if not caught quickly, and heavy exposure can be lethal in the worst cases.
When carbon monoxide passes through the lungs, it enters the red blood cells and binds to hemoglobin in the same place as oxygen. This forms carboxyhemoglobin, which interferes with the transportation and gas exchange of oxygen in the red blood cells. This sneaky, toxic gas finds its way into your home through a wide range of seemingly harmless sources. Even in small doses carbon monoxide can be harmful and may even cause permanent damage if not caught quickly, and heavy exposure can be lethal in the worst cases.
1 The CO alarm has detected carbon monoxide in the building at a dangerous level. 2  The alarm may sound if there is a sudden surge of high concentrations of CO or it may sound if lower levels of CO have been present for a longer period. Here are some causes of Carbon Monoxide Detector alarms sounding: 1  The CO alarm has detected carbon monoxide in the building at a dangerous level. 2  The alarm may sound if there is a sudden surge of high concentrations of CO or it may sound if lower levels of CO have been present for a longer period.
Difficult to detect and treat once the damage is done, carbon monoxide is known as the silent killer. This sneaky, toxic gas finds its way into your home through a wide range of seemingly harmless sources. Even in small doses carbon monoxide can be harmful and may even cause permanent damage if not caught quickly, and heavy exposure can be lethal in the worst cases.
1 Beeping or chirping from a CO carbon monoxide detector alarm, a sound that is not continuous but sounds every few minutes, may indicate a dead or dying battery-replace the battery; if the alarm is in doubtful condition replace it. Here are some causes of Carbon Monoxide Detector alarms sounding: 1  The CO alarm has detected carbon monoxide in the building at a dangerous level. 2  The alarm may sound if there is a sudden surge of high concentrations of CO or it may sound if lower levels of CO have been present for a longer period.
The response time and response-level of a carbon monoxide detector used as a building safety alarm varies by model. But in general, at 400 ppm of CO a Carbon monoxide detector will respond in minutes and at 30 ppm or below the CO detector is designed not to respond for 30 days. Here are some causes of Carbon Monoxide Detector alarms sounding: 1  The CO alarm has detected carbon monoxide in the building at a dangerous level. 2  The alarm may sound if there is a sudden surge of high concentrations of CO or it may sound if lower levels of CO have been present for a longer period.
In most homes and buildings there are a number of sources of carbon monoxide. Always pay attention to a carbon monoxide alarm beeping and always treat the sound of any carbon monoxide alarm seriously-your life and your health could depend on it. Return to Carbon monoxide detectors or top of Carbon monoxide detector beeping. Always treat it seriously when you hear a carbon monoxide detector beeping. The beeping or chirping sound is usually quite noticable but nowehere near as loud as when an actual alarm is activated. Detectors may beep for different reasons but it is always a sign that the detector needs attention. 