Fraser Island is a heritage-listed island located along the southern coast of Queensland, Australia, approximately 200 kilometres (120 mi) north of Brisbane. It is a locality within the Fraser Coast Region. Its length is about 120 kilometres (75 mi) and its width is approximately 24 kilometres (15 mi). It was inscribed as a World Heritage site in 1992. The island is considered to be the largest sand island in the world at 1840 km 2. The 120 kilometres (75 mi) beach runs along most of the east coast of Fraser Island. It is used as a landing strip for planes and an informal highway for vehicles (highway rules state that vehicles must give way to aircraft if they are oncoming).
Fraser Island Map Hema. Fraser Island is one of the most diverse 4WD destinations in Australia, with beaches, rainforests, perched lakes, sand blows and more fitting into the world’s largest sand island. The map for the island is at a detailed scale of 1:130,000 and extends out to Maryborough. Included with the map are hybrid satellite and map overlay insets of Waddy Point, Orchid Beach, Cathedral Beach, Happy Valley, Kingfisher Bay, Eurong and Second Valley. On the reverse is a wealth of information for enjoying Fraser Island, including touring information on each distinct region, things to do, island access, permit information, accommodation, useful contacts and helpful insights for sand driving as well as information on dingoes.
Hema's 4WD Maps app has the best maps for the 4X4 tourer. – Pat Callinan, Pat Callinan's 4X4 Adventures. “4WD Maps is an invaluable off-road navigation tool.” – Simon Christie, 4wd TV. Explore Australia without mobile coverage using 105 Hema maps for uncomplicated and reliable 4WD navigation Australia-wide. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To buy and download 4WD Maps | Hema Australia Offline and Offroad GPS Navigation with 4x4 Touring Maps by Hema Maps, get iTunes now.
Caution: Moon Point to Towoi Creek—soft boggy sand and deep creek crossings; potentially dangerous.Marine stingers are present in the ocean, especially in the summer months. Swimming is not recommended. Indian Head WARNING Look and listen for aircraft landing and taking off along the eastern beach. Fraser Island Recreation Area map Great Sandy National Park © State of Queensland. Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service, Department of National Parks, Recreation, Sport and Racing. Running or jogging can trigger a negative dingo interaction.• Camp in fenced areas when possible.• Lock up food stores and iceboxes (even on a boat).• Never store food or food containers in tents.• Secure all rubbish, fish and bait. Follow dingo safety advice provided with permits and on signs throughout the island.
tell a friend about this product. Fraser Island is one of the most diverse 4WD destinations in Australia, with beaches, rainforests, perched lakes, sand blows and more fitting into the world’s largest sand island. The map for the island is at a detailed scale of 1:130,000 and extends out to Maryborough. Included with the map are hybrid satellite and map overlay insets of Waddy Point, Orchid Beach, Cathedral Beach, Happy Valley, Kingfisher Bay, Eurong and Second Valley. On the reverse is a wealth of information for enjoying Fraser Island, including touring information on each distinct region, things to do, island access, permit information, accommodation, useful contacts and helpful insights for sand driving as well as information on dingoes.
Fraser Island is home to a small number of mammal species, as well as a diverse range of birds, reptiles and amphibians, including the occasional saltwater crocodile. The island is part of the Fraser Coast Region and protected in the Great Sandy National Park. The 120 kilometres (75 mi) beach runs along most of the east coast of Fraser Island. It is used as a landing strip for planes and an informal highway for vehicles (highway rules state that vehicles must give way to aircraft if they are oncoming).
Recreational 4WD & Bush Camper Hire. We specialise in 4WD Bush Campers in various sizes & combinations as Ground Tent & Roof Top Tent Set ups. Our Bush Campers are furnished with Camping Equipment Packages suitable for number of people travelling. Go to Fleet Quote or Book More Info. Australian 4WD Hire is an independently owned and operated company, offering great personal service and competitive rates. With a national wide network of agencies we become a supplier of choice in the provision of light commercial vehicle rental supply including onsite maintenance for the Mining, Civil Construction and Tourism Industries.
iTunes is the world's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To buy and download 4WD Maps | Hema Australia Offline and Offroad GPS Navigation with 4x4 Touring Maps by Hema Maps, get iTunes now.