Types of immunizations Immunization can occur in one of two forms. Active immunization involves stimulating the immune system to produce antibodies to fight a disease. This is the form of immunization used in creating vaccines. Passive immunization involves providing an antibody to the patient. It provides only temporary protection against disease. Diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine (DTaP). Protects against diphtheria (serious throat infection), tetanus (severe nerve disease) and pertussis (respiratory illness sometimes known as “whooping cough”). DTaP is provided in a series of five injections from ages 2 months to 6 years.
Types of vaccines. The way in which the body responds to a vaccine depends on the type of vaccine being administered. There are several different types of vaccine available and with new technology there will be further additions. In order to produce an immune response, live attenuated vaccines must replicate (grow) in the vaccinated person. A relatively small dose of virus or bacteria is given, which replicates in the body and creates enough virus/bacteria to stimulate an immune response.
For example: 1  Some travelers to less-developed countries get the vaccine to prevent typhoid fever. 2  There are live and killed forms of this vaccine. 3  Rabies is a viral infection that is 100 percent fatal once it has progressed. 4  The disease is simply too dangerous to give, even in a weakened state. If scientists can make a killed vaccine that is effective, that is what they will do. It's all about trial and error.. Most viral diseases, he says, require live-attenuated vaccines, but the vast majority of bacterial illnesses are prevented with inactivated vaccines. There are some exceptions to this rule, though.
The smallpox vaccine used cowpox, a poxvirus that was similar enough to smallpox to protect against it but usually didn’t cause serious illness. Rabies was the first virus attenuated in a lab to create a vaccine for humans. Vaccines are made using several different processes. Human papillomavirus (HPV). Live, attenuated vaccines currently recommended as part of the U.S. Childhood Immunization Schedule include those against measles, mumps, and rubella (via the combined MMR vaccine), varicella (chickenpox), and influenza (in the nasal spray version of the seasonal flu vaccine).
Vaccines have contributed to a significant reduction in many childhood infectious diseases, such as diphtheria, measles, and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). Some infectious diseases, such as polio and smallpox, have been eliminated in the United States due to effective vaccines. Vaccines work by preparing the body’s immune system for future attacks by a certain disease, caused by either viruses or bacteria. Vaccines contain weakened bacteria or viruses, or parts of bacteria or viruses, and mimic these disease-causing agents (which are called antigens).
A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular disease. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing micro-organism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins or one of its surface proteins. The rate of side effects depends on the vaccine in question. Some common side effects include: fever, pain around the injection site, and muscle aches. Additionally, some individuals may be allergic to ingredients in the vaccine.
In addition to live, attenuated vaccines, the immunization schedule includes vaccines of every other major type—see the table above for a breakdown of the vaccine types on the recommended childhood schedule. The different vaccine types each require different development techniques. Human papillomavirus (HPV). Live, attenuated vaccines currently recommended as part of the U.S. Childhood Immunization Schedule include those against measles, mumps, and rubella (via the combined MMR vaccine), varicella (chickenpox), and influenza (in the nasal spray version of the seasonal flu vaccine).
Killed or Inactivated Vaccines. One alternative to attenuated vaccines is a killed or inactivated vaccine. Vaccines of this type are created by inactivating a pathogen, typically using heat or chemicals such as formaldehyde or formalin. Human papillomavirus (HPV). Live, attenuated vaccines currently recommended as part of the U.S. Childhood Immunization Schedule include those against measles, mumps, and rubella (via the combined MMR vaccine), varicella (chickenpox), and influenza (in the nasal spray version of the seasonal flu vaccine).
Classification of vaccines​. There are two basic types of vaccines: live attenuated and inactivated. The characteristics of live and inactivated vaccines are different, and these characteristics determine how the vaccine is used. Live attenuated vaccines are produced by modifying a disease-producing (“wild”) virus or bacteria in a laboratory. In order to produce an immune response, live attenuated vaccines must replicate (grow) in the vaccinated person. A relatively small dose of virus or bacteria is given, which replicates in the body and creates enough virus/bacteria to stimulate an immune response.
(Dr. Jenner called this process vaccination after the Latin word for cow, vacca.). Today there are several types of vaccines. Some, such as the oral polio vaccine (OPV), are live, attenuated vaccines which means the virus has been weakened so that it stimulates antibody production, but does not cause the disease. 