The real answer is the centrosome is an area in the cell where microtubules are produced. Microtubules carry out a variety of functions, ranging from transportation to structural support. During cell division, the centrosome divides, and both parts move to opposite sides of the cell. A centrosome is where microtubules are organised in a cell and can  be thought of as the centre of a spiders web with all the threads  coming out from it. It provide support … for the microtubules and is  responsible for their breakdown and construction.
Centrioles are built from a cylindrical array of 9 microtubules, each of which has attached to it 2 partial microtubules. The photo (courtesy of E. deHarven) is an electron micrograph showing a cross section of a centriole with its array of nine triplets of microtubules. 1 It is duplicated during S phase of the cell cycle. 2  Just before mitosis, the two centrosomes move apart until they are on opposite sides of the nucleus. 3  As mitosis proceeds, microtubules grow out from each centrosome with their plus ends growing toward the metaphase plate.
The centrosome is a place inside the cell where microtubles are formed. inside the cell centrosome there are centrioles wich are made up of a ring of nine microtubules. these … centrioles are only found inside animal cells. A centrosome is where microtubules are organised in a cell and can  be thought of as the centre of a spiders web with all the threads  coming out from it. It provide support … for the microtubules and is  responsible for their breakdown and construction.
Centrosome Function. Centrosomes are cell organelles that are exclusive to animal cells and perform a key role in cell division. Read through this article to learn about the various centrosome functions and how the cell organelle is designed to carry them out... These organelles are essentially a part of animal cells because in a plant cell, their function is performed by other cell organelles. They help in regulating the cell cycle and are an integral part of cell division by mitosis.
In cell biology, the centrosome is an organelle that is the main place where cell microtubules get organised. They occur only in animal cells. Also, it regulates the cell division cycle, the stages which lead up to cell division. 
Centrioles are a very important part of centrosomes, which are involved in organizing microtubules in the cytoplasm. The position of the centriole determines the position of the nucleus and plays a crucial role in the spatial arrangement of the cell. 
Role of the centrosome in cell cycle progression. Centrosomes are associated with the nuclear membrane during prophase of the cell cycle. In mitosis the nuclear membrane breaks down and the centrosome nucleated microtubules (parts of the cytoskeleton) can interact with the chromosomes to build the mitotic spindle. The centrosome replicates during the S phase of the cell cycle. During the prophase in the process of cell division called mitosis, the centrosomes migrate to opposite poles of the cell. The mitotic spindle then forms between the two centrosomes. Upon division, each daughter cell receives one centrosome.
In cell biology, the centrosome (Latin centrum 'center' + Greek sōma 'body') is an organelle that serves as the main microtubule organizing center (MTOC) of the animal cell as well as a regulator of cell-cycle progression. The centrosome replicates during the S phase of the cell cycle. During the prophase in the process of cell division called mitosis, the centrosomes migrate to opposite poles of the cell. The mitotic spindle then forms between the two centrosomes. Upon division, each daughter cell receives one centrosome.
Fungi and plants lack centrosomes and therefore use other MTOC structures to organize their microtubules. Although the centrosome has a key role in efficient mitosis in animal cells, it is not essential in certain fly and flatworm species. The centrosome replicates during the S phase of the cell cycle. During the prophase in the process of cell division called mitosis, the centrosomes migrate to opposite poles of the cell. The mitotic spindle then forms between the two centrosomes. Upon division, each daughter cell receives one centrosome.
All animal cells have two small organelles known as centrioles. The centrioles help the cell to divide. Centrioles are seen the process of mitosis and meiosis. The centrioles together are typically located near the nucleus in the centrosome. The centrioles are made of groups of microtubules,these microtubules are arranged in a pattern of 9+3. The pattern of the microtubules for a ring of 9 microtubules known as triplets and the microtubules are arranged at right angles to one another.