King Salmon. Probably the most prized fish in Alaska, Kings are also one of the most difficult to catch. King salmon tend to swim in the deepest part of the river, which is typically right down the center. In places like the Kenai River, this makes it very difficult for shore anglers to catch them. The technique here is pretty much exactly the same as it was for King Salmon. The difference is where these fish swim. These salmon species tend to sit either in clear water or just on the edge of clear water. Clear water occurs when a small stream flows into a murky-colored stream.
King salmon are the largest salmon, requiring special equipment and techniques. Their sheer size makes them a challenge to catch, but it's worth it: They're considered the second best salmon to eat, after reds. 1  Best Lures for Salmon Fishing. 2  How to Fish for Salmon on the Sacramento River. 
With normal sizes ranging between 20 and 30 pounds and true trophy fish weighing in in the 60 pound range coupled with incredible power Chinook salmon are some of the hardest fighting fish you can hope to lay hooks into. When fishing for Chinook salmon on open water, trolling is the most common method of angling. While it is true that you may catch Chinook on any given lure on any given day, presenting them with a lure that looks like what they are feeding on both in size and color will greatly increase the chances they will bite. Quite often salmon will follow a lure for some distance before deciding to truly eat it.
8 photos: How to land a king salmon, the old way. A catch you can eat all week – Chinook is the largest of the salmon species and can grow up to 90 pounds. The author took an hour to haul in this beauty in British Columbia's Inside Passage. 3 of 8. 8 photos: How to land a king salmon, the old way. Family-like crew – Westwind Tugboat Adventures crew: Trevor Kellett (guide), Naomi Panchou (chef), Michael Boskovich (captain), Duncan Browning (guide) and Alana Smit (hostess) take care of up to 12 guests at a time.
You could be fishing in 12 feet of water one day then turn around and use a 20-pound downrigger ball in 350 feet of water the next day! Pinpointing the massive schools of king salmon on their journey to their home rivers pays huge dividends. Because I like to fish where the fish are and that’s where they’ll be biting! Neah Bay is a major intercept point for several different runs of king salmon. Located in the northwestern-most corner of the state, this area puts you in a prime spot to capitalize on both the Canadian and Washington/Oregon runs of salmon.
Salmon eggs are the top choice for bait, although sand shrimp are very popular for chinook salmon. Some anglers like to fish both at the same time. Marabou jigs (Photo 10) can be used instead of bait and can be especially effective on pink salmon, or other salmon when the water is very low and clear. When in doubt, set the hook. Typical drift fishing gear includes an 8 ½ or 9 foot rod rated for 15-30 pound line, and either a bait casting reel or a spinning reel. For larger fish, like chinook salmon, use 20-25 pound line. For smaller fish, like pink salmon, use 10-15 pound line
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There are several ways to catch King salmon. You can catch them with the help of downriggers using a variety of lures, flashers, and plastics like hootchies or fresh bait like anchovy or sardine's. You can mooch for them using artificial or fresh bait. You use a hook on a fish line with bait or a lure. Get the bait down to where the fish is, attract it's attention with a flashing lure and let it bite the bait.