How to Soothe Irritated Facial Skin. Shredded cucumber can make a cooling mask for irritated skin. Red, itchy, flaky and irritated skin is a common complaint, especially among people with sensitive skin. Irritated skin can be caused by any number of factors, including allergies, genetic factors, environmental irritants such as overexposure to sun or wind and poor facial care routines.
Apply an ice pack to numb the area. If you are dealing with a sore vagina, place an ice pack on the area to help lessen the pain you are feeling. The cold temperature of the ice pack will numb the nerve endings in the area, making the soreness more bearable.
The best way to soothe this type of skin irritation is with a cool bath. Use a shampoo made for dogs, but get one that has one of the following ingredients: Oatmeal, lavender, eucalyptus or baking soda. If you cannot find a dog shampoo containing oatmeal, you can use the oatmeal in your cupboard.
The SOOTHE Regimen features 4 full-size products: Gentle Cream Wash 125 mL/4.2 Fl.Oz.; Sensitive Skin Treatment 50 mL/1.7 Fl.Oz.; Moisture Replenishing Cream 50 mL/1.7 Fl.Oz.; and Mineral Sunscreen SPF 30
Natural Ingredients That May Help. In addition to taking extra care with your skin, you can use some natural ingredients to help soothe, moisturize, and protect skin from harsh daily elements. 1  Aloe. 2  Perfect for all skin types, aloe is a calming ingredient that naturally helps tame inflammation.
In addition to taking extra care with your skin, you can use some natural ingredients to help soothe, moisturize, and protect skin from harsh daily elements. 1  Aloe. 2  Feverfew. 3  Oatmeal. 4  Chamomile. 5  Cucumber. 6  White willow bark extract. 7  Calendula. 8  Honey.
July 15, 2003 - There is new hope on the horizon to soothe sore muscles but without the aggravating-and sometimes dangerous -- side effects of anti-inflammatory pills like aspirin or ibuprofen.
Soak your nose with a moist washcloth. If your nose is badly chafed or even bleeding, add warm moisture quickly to relieve the pain. Run a clean washcloth under hot water, then gently press it into the nostrils. Tilt your head back and leave the washcloth in place until it cools back down to room temperature.