That’s like tying 845 adult horses to a car, and have them all start running at the same time. The best part is, it’s in the hands of a guy who can handle all that power. Catch more at WIRED. Hoonigan is a motorsport-lifestyle brand with a penchant for automotive debauchery. The brand was spawned in 2011 by DC Shoes Co-Founder Ken Block and 0-60 Magazine Editor-in-Chief Brian Scotto. The company is dedicated to creating authentic products for the rebellious gear head. 
Presented by the video game Need For Speed Rivals, as well as GoPro and Hoonigan, Need For Speed: Ken Block’s Gymkhana SIX – Ultimate Gymkhana GRID Course is the latest installment in Block’s Gymkhana series of YouTube driving videos. Below you’ll find the official press release from Need For Speed Rivals. 
2. Hoonigan. A person who operates a motor vehicle in an aggressive and unorthodox manner, consisting of, but not limited to, drifting, burn outs, doughnuts as well as acts of automotive aeronautics. One who f@#king hoons. 
The Hoonigan Racing Division (previously known as the Monster World Rally Team) is a motor racing team that competes in the World Rally Championship, Global RallyCross Championship, FIA World Rallycross Championship and Rally America. The team was formed by Ken Block at the beginning of 2010 as a platform for him to compete at world championship level. The team, sponsored by Monster Energy, currently runs one 2011-spec Ford Fiesta RS WRC for Block and co-driver Alex Gelsomino at selected events in the World Rally Championship.
Login | Sign Up. He not only started Hoonigan, he defines it. Known best for his antics behind the wheel, Block entered the world of motorsport in 2005 looking to achieve his personal dream of racing in rally—and achieve, he did. From the national level to the World Rally Championship, Block has now done it all in rally. But what makes this Hoonigan stand out from the rest of the pack is his flat-out, usually sideways, bat-shit driving style.
In particular, it is used to refer to one who drives a car or boat in a manner which is anti-social by the standards of contemporary society, i.e. too fast, too noisily or too dangerously. In New Zealand, the term  boy racer  is also widely used. 
The Story of Hoonigan. Ken Block not only started Hoonigan, he defines it. Known best for his antics behind the wheel, Block entered the world of motorsport in 2005 looking to achieve his personal dream of racing in rally—and achieve, he did. From the national level to the World Rally Championship, Block has now done it all in rally.
A lot of people have been asking exactly what Hoonigan is all about, and what exactly does it mean to hoon. So, why don't you tell us what it means to you. Best answer wins an AWESOME Hoonigan prize pack. Richard Lichdean To HOON or be a HOONIGAN you must take your right foot and make connection with the furthest pedal to your right in your chosen vehicle or HOON-MOBIL and push it firmly to the floor! What you do next is up to you but do it fast iratic.