Jump to: Cost of nursing homes | What skilled nursing facilities do | What intermediate care facilities do | What convalescent homes do | Nursing home regulations and requirements | How to find a nursing home. At $3,000 to $10,000 a month, nursing homes are expensive, there's no doubt about that.
­The thinking goes that in order to make money, the for-profit homes make cuts that affect the quality of care, such as reducing the number of nursing staff or skimping on the meals.
You can use your personal money and savings to pay for nursing home care. Some insurance companies let you use your life insurance policy to pay for long-term care.
The current annual rents for the Facilities are approximately $10.3 million. The Facilities, which contain 2,634 licensed nursing center beds and 220 licensed hospital beds, generated pretax losses of approximately $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
For every 100 elderly patients in a nursing home in a given year, 35 will die and another 37 will be admitted to a hospital where they may die, recover or return. The average stay for elderly patients who die in a nursing home is just shy of 2 years.
Many for-profit nursing homes will tell us in depositions and discovery in a case, that they don’t make that much money. Well – that may be true, but someone is making money.
Medicare will pay for 20 days of a skilled nursing care facility at full cost and the difference between $114 per day and the actual cost for another 80 days. Private Medicare supplement insurance usually pays the 80 day deductible of $114 per day, if a person carries this insurance and the right policy form.
Nursing homes provide a cost-effective way to enable patients with injuries, acute illnesses or postoperative care needs to recover in an environment outside a hospital. When these patients are admitted from a hospital, Medicare will cover the cost.
New graduate nurses in California make between $40 to $46 per hour, depending on geographic location. The highest starting salaries in California are around $83,000 per year. And in some areas, sign on bonuses are being advertised at up to $10,000. The more education and experience you have, the more money you can earn.