Ownership by minority individuals means the business is at least 51% owned by such individuals or, in the case of a publicly-owned business, at least 51% of the stock is owned by one or more such individuals i.e. the management and daily operations are controlled by those minority group members. 
1 Minority businesses must be at least 51% minority-owned operated and controlled. 2  For the purposes of NMSDC’s program, a minority group member is an individual who is at least 25% Asian, Black, Hispanic or Native American. 3  Minority eligibility is established via a combination of screenings, interviews and site visits. 1 Ownership, in the case of a publicly-owned business, means that at least 51% of the stock is owned by one or more minority group members. 2  Must be a profit enterprise and physically located in the U. S. or its trust territories. 3  Management and daily operations must be exercised by the minority ownership member(s).
MWBE Enterprises was established in 1998 is to assist Women-owned businesses and Minority-owned businesses in successfully achieving either Women's Business Enterprise certification (WBE), Minority Business Enterprises certification (MBE), Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) certification, 8a and or SDB designation. 
Many states and cities also have minority-owned business programs, which are often referred to as Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) programs. Maryland, for instance, has a legally mandated program that requires 25 percent of all government contracts to be filled by minority-owned businesses. The Small Business Administration's 8(a) Business Development Program helps minority-owned companies win contracts in the public sector. In order to comply with the Small Business Act, certain government agencies need to complete their federal contracts with 8(a) participants.
A Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) is an American term which is defined as a business which is at least 51% owned, operated and controlled on a daily basis by one or more (in combination) American citizens of the following ethnic minority and/or gender (e.g. woman-owned) and/or military veteran classifications: 
Note: Non-For-Profit companies DO NOT qualify for any certifications. Ownership by minority individuals means the business is at least 51% owned by such individuals or, in the case of a publicly-owned business, at least 51% of the stock is owned by one or more such individuals. Further, the management and daily operations are controlled by those minority group members. The business must be a for-profit enterprise which physically resides in the United States or one of it territories. Identified Minority groups are generally defined as having an ethnic background consisting of Asian, Black, Hispanic, East Asian Indian and/or Native American.
Criteria for Certification: 1  United States citizens. 2  Minority businesses must be at least 51% minority-owned operated and controlled. 3  For the purposes of NMSDC’s program, a minority group member is an individual who is at least 25% Asian, Black, Hispanic or Native American. 1 Ownership, in the case of a publicly-owned business, means that at least 51% of the stock is owned by one or more minority group members. 2  Must be a profit enterprise and physically located in the U. S. or its trust territories. 3  Management and daily operations must be exercised by the minority ownership member(s).
1 United States citizens. 2  Minority businesses must be at least 51% minority-owned operated and controlled. 3  For the purposes of NMSDC’s program, a minority group member is an individual who is at least 25% Asian, Black, Hispanic or Native American. 1 Ownership, in the case of a publicly-owned business, means that at least 51% of the stock is owned by one or more minority group members. 2  Must be a profit enterprise and physically located in the U. S. or its trust territories. 3  Management and daily operations must be exercised by the minority ownership member(s).
A minority-owned business is defined as being owned, capitalized, operated and controlled by a member of an identified minority group. The business must be a for-profit enterprise which physically resides in the United States or one of it territories. Identified Minority groups are generally defined as having an ethnic background consisting of Asian, Black, Hispanic, East Asian Indian and/or Native American.
'It really is in the state's best interest to use all of our small businesses, including our minority-and woman-owned firms,' Jenkins says. Who is eligible: For most programs, at least 51 percent of a business needs to be owned by a member of a minority group in order to qualify for certification. The Small Business Administration's 8(a) Business Development Program helps minority-owned companies win contracts in the public sector. In order to comply with the Small Business Act, certain government agencies need to complete their federal contracts with 8(a) participants.