Every company has a constitution in the form of articles (or, for older companies, memorandum and articles). A company must have both directors and members. (Members are shareholders unless the company is limited by guarantee). The key feature of a limited company is that it offers limited liability to its members. The company (as a separate legal entity) is liable for its debts and the members and directors are not personally liable (unless they have acted wrongly in some way).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In a limited company, the liability of members or subscribers of the company is limited to what they have invested or guaranteed to the company. Limited companies may be limited by shares or by guarantee. The former may be further divided into public companies and private companies. Who may become a member of a private limited company is restricted by law and by the company's rules. Main article: Private company limited by shares. Has shareholders with limited liability and its shares may not be offered to the general public. Shareholders of private companies limited by shares are often bound to offer the shares to their fellow shareholders prior to selling them to a third party.
DEFINITION of 'Ltd. An abbreviation of limited, Ltd. is a suffix that follows the name of a company, indicating that it's a private limited company-a kind of incorporation available under British and Irish, and some Commonwealth countries laws. In a limited company, the shareholders' liability is limited to the capital they'd originally invested. If such company becomes insolvent, the shareholders personal assets remain protected. Shares in a private limited company are not offered to the general public (distinguishing it from a public limited company-plc.).
In many countries a limited company business entity is a corporation in which the shareholders' financial liability is limited by shares.. It is often regarded as an attractive option for business owners-and is especially popular among those who own smaller companies. Typically, a Pvt Ltd must have at least two shareholders, and the maximum number of share holders is also limited (usually to around 50 individuals). One major benefit to this private business structure is that the company's disclosure requirements are less stringent than those for a public company.
Ltd. is the abbreviation for limited. The term is designed to advise that the shareholders or owners of this type of enterprise is limited. Specifically, the shareholders or owners have limited responsibility for the debts and obligations of the business enterprise, according to InvestorWords.com. Geography. The abbreviation ltd. associated with a business enterprise is commonly used in different European countries as well as in Canada, according to InvestorWords.com. Ltd. is also used from time to time with companies in the United States.
Ltd. Ltd. is short for limited, or a limited company. This structure is used mostly in European countries and Canada. In a limited company, directors and shareholders have limited liability for the company's debt, as long as the business operates within the law.
Limited company. A business structure used in Europe and Canada, in which shareholder responsibility for company debt is limited, usually to the amount he/she has invested in the company. In some cases, the liability of shareholders is limited to specific pre-determined amounts (which are stated in a memorandum). Abbreviated Ltd or plc
A Limited Company is a business structure where members or shareholders have their liability limited to the contributions which they have made or invested in the company. Forming a Limited company has many advantages for owners and is easy to incorporate. The Limited Company limited by shares is the most commonly registered Ltd Company. Presently in the United Kingdom there are 3 types of Limited Companies being offered: 1  Private Limited Companies (Ltd). 2  Companies limited by guarantee (Ltd). 3  Public limited Companies (PLC).