Driving theory test: how it works and how to pass. To pass the driving theory test, you will need to pass the multiple choice question section and hazard perception test in one go. For the multiple-choice section, you will be required to answer fifty questions in 57 minutes. You will receive your score at the end of your test with (if you pass) a certificate. • Best first cars for young drivers. If you have a Safe Road User Award, an ‘abridged’ theory test can be taken. This costs less at £19 and requires the candidate to pass 30 out of 35 questions correctly.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You have 57 minutes to complete the test and to pass you must have 43 correct answers out of the 50 asked. So the pass mark is 86% so anything less then you will fail. http://www.direct.gov.uk/en/Motoring/Lea... You also heve to get 44 out of 75 in the hazard perception test and if you fail that or the questions then you fail the whole thing. Timbo is here · 6 years ago.
The pass mark for the new theory test, will be 43 correct answers out of 50. This pass mark will be kept under review to ensure that those who are well prepared and have a good knowledge of the subject will pass, and those who have not will fail. Try our Mock Questions. 
Best Answer: You have 57 minutes to complete the test and to pass you must have 43 correct answers out of the 50 asked. So the pass mark is 86% so anything less then you will fail. You also heve to get 44 out of 75 in the hazard perception test and if you fail that or the questions then you fail the whole thing. Timbo is here · 6 years ago.
You need to get a minimum of 43 out of 50 on the multiple choice and 44 out of 75 on the hazard perception test to pass. Top tip: Practise answering under pressure by asking friends and family to quiz you, bearing in mind that in the real test you’ll have 57 minutes to answer the 50 questions. The good news is that the DSA (Driving Standards Agency) has produced a Theory Test Handbook which is packed full of useful tips and example questions. Make sure you get your hands on a copy and take some time to revise.
10 tips on how to pass your theory test. As if preparing for the practical driving test wasn’t pressure enough, you’ll also need to pass the theory test before you can get your full driving licence. To help you achieve top marks, we’ve got 10 top tips for success. The good news is that the DSA (Driving Standards Agency) has produced a Theory Test Handbook which is packed full of useful tips and example questions. Make sure you get your hands on a copy and take some time to revise.
To pass the combined CD theory test, you have 140 minutes to correctly answer 104 out of 140 questions. To pass a TMT or a BMT module theory test you have 45 minutes to answer 30 out of 40 questions correctly. If you pass a category C or D theory test on or after 30 September 2014, there is an option to sit a TMT or BMT module test to obtain the other category (D or C as appropriate) provided this is done within 2 years of the first test.
Before you buy make sure you have the most up-to-date book available! You can also practice online at www.theory-tests.co.uk/home/. The test will last 57 minutes, and you need to get 43 of the 50 questions right to pass. You will be given some practise questions before you get started – use these to get used to the touch screen system and help you relax.
If you do not pass your practical driving test within two years of passing your theory, you will have to retake the theory test again. Driving theory test fees stand at £25 for a standard car theory test but as of October 2015, it will be reduced to £23. You will receive your score at the end of your test with (if you pass) a certificate. • Best first cars for young drivers. If you have a Safe Road User Award, an ‘abridged’ theory test can be taken. This costs less at £19 and requires the candidate to pass 30 out of 35 questions correctly.
Most people will have to take and pass the theory test before applying for the practical driving test. However, there are a few exceptions If you hold a foreign licence, you may be able to simply exchange it to a UK licence. You would need to check with the Driver Vehicle Licencing Agency (tel:0870 240 0009). 