Confidence votes 5.4K. It is the change of rate of momentum. Impulse is the integral of force over time, it is measured in Newton-seconds. For instance a force of one Newton applied over one second will change the momentum, a force of two Newton's applied over half of a second will have a similar effect
Impulse-Momentum Theorem. Impulse is the change in momentum of an object, and is a vector quantity: j = δ p. Momentum is the product of the mass and the velocity of an object, and is a vector quantity: p = m v. Since in daily life we do not notice an object's mass change just because its velocity changes, change in momentum is given by: δ p = mΔ v.
The product of average force and the time it is exerted is called the impulse of force. From Newton's second law. the impulse of force can be extracted and found to be equal to the change in momentum of an object provided the mass is constant: 
In classical mechanics, impulse (symbolized by J or Imp) is the integral of a force, F, over the time interval, t, for which it acts. Since force is a vector quantity, impulse is also a vector in the same direction. Impulse applied to an object produces an equivalent vector change in its linear momentum, also in the same direction. The term impulse is also used to refer to a fast-acting force or impact. This type of impulse is often idealized so that the change in momentum produced by the force happens with no change in time.
1 is a vector quantity (since force is a vector and time is a scalar). 2  uses the SI unit newton second [N s]. 3  impulse-momentum theorem. 4  The impulse-momentum theorem states that the change in momentum of an object equals the impulse applied to it. 1 is a vector quantity (since velocity is a vector and mass is a scalar). 2  uses the SI unit kilogram meter per second [kg m/s]. 3  impulse 4  …. is a quantity that describes the effect of a net force acting on an object (a kind of moving force).
Definition: Impulse is defined as a force multiplied by the amount of time it acts over. In calculus terms, the impulse can be calculated as the integral of force with respect to time. Alternately, impulse can be calculated as the difference in momentum between two given instances. 
The impulse experienced by the object equals the change in momentum of the object. In equation form, F • t = m • δ v. In a collision, objects experience an impulse; the impulse causes and is equal to the change in momentum. Consider a football halfback running down the football field and encountering a collision with a defensive back.
The SI unit of impulse is the newton second (N·s), and the dimensionally equivalent unit of momentum is the kilogram meter per second (kg·m/s). The corresponding English engineering units are the pound-second (lbf·s) and the slug-foot per second (slug·ft/s). The term impulse is also used to refer to a fast-acting force or impact. This type of impulse is often idealized so that the change in momentum produced by the force happens with no change in time.
If the force changes during the time interval, F is the average net force over that time interval. The impulse caused by a force during a specific time interval is equal to the body’s change of momentum during that time interval: impulse, effectively, is a measure of change in momentum. The unit of impulse is the same as the unit of momentum, kg · m/s. Example. 
050 - Impulse. In this video Paul Andersen defines impulse as the product of the force applied and the time over which the force is applied. The impulse of an object is equivalent to the change in momentum of the object. Several problems related to impulse, force, and change in momentum are included.