A computer reservation system is used for the reservations of a particular airline and interfaces with a global distribution system (GDS) which supports travel agencies and other distribution channels in making reservations for most major airlines in a single system. An airline reservation system (ARS) is part of the so-called passenger service systems (PSS), which are applications supporting the direct contact with the passenger. ARS eventually evolved into the computer reservations system (CRS).
(a). : Under FIFO, the cost of goods sold is based upon the cost of material bought earliest in the period, while the cost of inventory is based upon the cost of material bought later in the year. This results in inventory being valued close to current replacement cost. 
Costing formula. The same formula used to determine the cost of inventory does not need to be applied to all inventories that have a similar nature and use to the entity. The same formula used to determine the cost of inventory must be applied to all inventories that have a similar nature and use to the entity. 
IFRS does not all the use of the LIFO method at all. The IRS allows the use of LIFO, but if you use it for any subsidiary, you must also use it for all parts of the reporting entity. Record keeping. There are usually fewer inventory layers to track in a FIFO system, since the oldest layers are continually used up. This reduces record keeping. There are usually more inventory layers to track in a LIFO system, since the oldest layers can potentially remain in the system for years.
The average cost method assigns inventory costs by calculating a moving average of all inventory purchase costs. This method can be ideal for companies that sell non-perishable inventory in a non-sequential manner, such as video game retailers. Inventory can take a variety of forms. logging equipment 3 image by Jim Parkin from Fotolia.com. Small business accountants can use one of four distinct inventory costing methods to account for the cost of goods sold.
29. Passive Bookings ‐ These are listed in the Travel Service Provider's CRS/GDS system under passive segment status codes. Passive segments do not decrement United's inventory and are only to be used to ticket reservations booked directly with United. 30. 
An airline’s inventory contains all flights with their available seats. The inventory of an airline is generally divided into service classes (e.g. first, business or economy class) and up to 26 booking classes, for which different prices and booking conditions apply. An airline reservation system (ARS) is part of the so-called passenger service systems (PSS), which are applications supporting the direct contact with the passenger. ARS eventually evolved into the computer reservations system (CRS).
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, primarily using the retail method. The last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, utilizing internal inflation indices, was used to determine cost for $6,148, $5,990 and $5,883 of inventory as of year end 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. Solution • Here students review the retail method. Kmart calculates the mark-up on all merchandise, perhaps a number of mark-up rates for different categories. As inventory is counted, the retail price of each item is recorded. The company uses the mark-up rate(s) to convert the retail price into cost for each item.
FIFO vs. LIFO Accounting. FIFO and LIFO are cost layering methods used to value the cost of goods sold and ending inventory. FIFO is a contraction of the term first in, first out, and means that the goods first added to inventory are assumed to be the first goods removed from inventory for sale. Record keeping. There are usually fewer inventory layers to track in a FIFO system, since the oldest layers are continually used up. This reduces record keeping. There are usually more inventory layers to track in a LIFO system, since the oldest layers can potentially remain in the system for years.