SNAKE-To see a snake or be bitten by one in your dream, signifies hidden fears and worries that are threatening you. Your dream may be alerting you to something in your waki … ng life that you are not aware of or that has not yet surfaced.
So to have dreams about snakes can actually represent fears or concerns that you may have in some part of your waking life. So any situation in your life where you may feel fearful, anxious, tense, sense potential danger, or a sense of mistrust in your life, then you may see snakes in dreams.
To see a snake or be bitten by one in your dream signifies hidden fears and worries that are threatening you. Your dream may be alerting you to something in your waking life that you are not aware of or that has not yet surfaced.
Snakes symbolize many different things in different contexts, and snake symbols can be contradictory. Sometimes a snake represents regeneration, eternal life and the practice of medicine. At other times it can suggest betrayal, lying or suspicious behavior.
Adder To see an adder in your dream symbolizes a sly or cunning person. This person cannot be trusted. It may also represent something or someone who has slipped out of your hands. The dream may also be a pun on something that you need to add to your life.
SNAKE-To see a snake or be bitten by one in your dream, signifies hidden fears and worries that are threatening you. Your dream may be alerting you to something in your waki … ng life that you are not aware of or that has not yet surfaced.
To see a snake or be bitten by one in your dream signifies hidden fears and worries that are threatening you. Your dream may be alerting you to something in your waking life that you are not aware of or that has not yet surfaced. The snake may also be seen as phallic and thus symbolize dangerous and forbidden sexuality.
-Snake: Snake: To see an adder in your dream symbolizes a sly or cunning person. This person cannot be trusted. To see a baby snake in your dream means that you are underestimating some threat in your waking life. -Shark: To see a shark in your dream indicates feelings of anger, hostility, and fierceness. You are undergoing a long and difficult emotional period and may be an emotional threat to yourself or to others.