These include barium swallow, barium meal, barium follow-through, and barium enema. The barium swallow, barium meal, and barium follow-through are together also called an upper gastrointestinal series (or study), whereas the barium enema is called a lower gastrointestinal series (or study).
Barium swallow: A test that involves filling the esophagus, stomach, and small intestines with a barium solution in preparation for an X-ray, to define the anatomy of the upper digestive tract. Also known as upper gastrointestinal series. 
A barium swallow is a radiographic (X-ray) examination of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract, specifically the pharynx (back of mouth and throat) and the esophagus (a hollow tube of muscle extending from below the tongue to the stomach). X-rays are made by using external radiation to produce images of the body, its organs, and other internal structures for diagnostic purposes. X-rays pass through body tissues onto specially-treated plates (similar to camera film) and a negative type picture is made. Fluoroscopy is often used during a barium swallow. Fluoroscopy is a study of moving body structures — similar to an X-ray movie.. A continuous X-ray beam is passed through the body part being examined, and is transmitted to a TV-like monitor so that the body part and its motion can be seen in detail
An upper gastrointestinal (GI) series (barium swallow), is a radiological test that is used to visualize the structures of the upper digestive system-the esophagus, stomach and duodenum. 
Barium swallow is a dedicated test of the pharynx, oesophagus, and proximal stomach, and may be performed as a single or double contrast study. 
A barium swallow may be performed separately or as part of an upper gastrointestinal (UGI) series, which evaluates the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum (first part of the small intestine). X-rays use invisible electromagnetic energy beams to produce images of internal tissues, bones, and organs on film. Fluoroscopy is often used during a barium swallow. Fluoroscopy is a study of moving body structures — similar to an X-ray movie.. A continuous X-ray beam is passed through the body part being examined, and is transmitted to a TV-like monitor so that the body part and its motion can be seen in detail.
A barium swallow is a test that may be used to determine the cause of painful swallowing, difficulty with swallowing, abdominal pain, bloodstained vomit, or unexplained weight loss. These problems can be detected with a barium swallow: 1  Narrowing or irritation of the esophagus (for example, Schatski's ring). 2  Disorders of swallowing (dysphagia-difficulty swallowing), spasms of the esophagus or pharynx. 3  Hiatal hernia (an internal defect that causes the stomach to slide partially into the chest).
A barium swallow is a radiographic (X-ray) examination of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract, specifically the pharynx (back of mouth and throat) and the esophagus (a hollow tube of muscle extending from below the tongue to the stomach). Fluoroscopy is often used during a barium swallow. Fluoroscopy is a study of moving body structures — similar to an X-ray movie.. A continuous X-ray beam is passed through the body part being examined, and is transmitted to a TV-like monitor so that the body part and its motion can be seen in detail.
Barium swallow is a type of upper GI series; the endoscopy x-ray happens the same way, but is limited to the pharynx and esophagus. Barium swallow is not designed to detect issues with a patient’s stomach and small intestine. The procedure involves drinking a barium contrast solution and using a special kind of x-ray referred to as fluoroscopy is used to capture moving images of the patient’s upper GI tract. During the procedure, patients will need to ingest a thick, white and chalky barium solution.