Hyperlink. A hyperlink is a word, phrase, or image that you can click on to jump to a new document or a new section within the current document. Hyperlinks are found in nearly all Web pages, allowing users to click their way from page to page. Text hyperlinks are often blue and underlined, but don't have to be. A hyperlink is a word, phrase, or image that you can click on to jump to a new document or a new section within the current document. Hyperlinks are found in nearly all Web pages, allowing users to click their way from page to pag
Linked contact means that you combined two of the same contact, or linked a contact you created with a contact from an account like your email or facebook just as examples. Level 10 (93,905 points). Read here for how to do so & un-link them if you so desire: http://www.imore.com/daily-tip-link-contacts-accounts. 
Definition: A hyperlink, or as it is more commonly called, a link, allows the viewer to quickly access another screen on the computer by simply clicking on a text entry or a graphic object. Hyperlinks in a presentation software such as PowerPoint or Open Office Impress can link to 1  -. another slide in the presentation. 
For example. the URL of this page is: http://www.helpwithpcs.com/jargon/url.htm. Common URLs on the Internet consist of several basic parts: URI SCHEME|DOMAIN NAME|RESOURCE. These parts are separated by special characters (separators). 
In computing, a hyperlink is a reference to data that the reader can directly follow either by clicking or by hovering. A hyperlink points to a whole document or to a specific element within a document. Hypertext is text with hyperlinks. 
Hyperlink. Alternatively referred to as a link, a hyperlink is an icon, graphic, or text in a document that links to another file or object. The World Wide Web is comprised of hyperlinks linking trillions of pages and files to one another. For example, click here for Computer Hope is a hyperlink to the main page of Computer Hope. Note: It is also possible to create a link to a different portion of the same page, these hyperlinks are referred to as an bookmark.
How popular is Link? Link is an uncommonly occurring given name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#1534 out of 150436, Top 1%). 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: hyperlink (Noun). Some text or a graphic in an electronic document that can be activated to display another document or trigger an action. Tap the hyperlink to go to the next page. hyperlink (Noun). An address, URL, or program that defines a hyperlink's function. 