If after conducting an acidity test of your wine, you discover that your wine lacks the correct amount of acid, the simplest solution would be to add an appropriate amount of acid blend to your must prior to fermentation. But we can't do that unless we know our desired acid levels. Recommended Acidity Levels. Before we jump into our discussion of how to measure acidity in wine, it's paramount to first understand why acid levels are important to the winemaker. Acidity provides the crisp, slightly tart taste of wine on your palate. Too little acid, and your wine tastes flabby and non-committal. Too much acid, and your taste buds scream for relief
As mentioned before, there is an optimum pH for fermentation as well. Prior to fermentation, pH is measured either by titration or more conveniently with a pH meter, and if it is too high, tartaric acid is added. This process is especially important in wines made from highly acidic grapes because lactic acid is a weaker acid than malic acid. (Bacteria decarboxylate malic acid, thus removing the acidic carboxyl group), so it mellows the wine's taste.
Having the correct level of acidity will also significantly aid the fermentation process and help to inhibit the growth of unwanted micro-organisms during and after the fermentation. Having the proper acidity level in the finished wine will also help to keep the negative effects of oxidation to a minimum. Finished wines that are too low in acid can eventually take on a slight raisin or caramel flavor, and in more extreme cases the wine can turn slightly brown or orange in color as well. Acidity is a major component to producing a stable wine with an agreeable balance and overall character. Without controlling acidity the result can be a wine that either tastes too sharp at one extreme, or flat and lifeless at the other.
The best practice is to make your pH adjustments to the wine must before fermentation begins. Actually we want to get everything in line before we unleash the yeast to do their work. This means adjusting not only the pH but also sugar content, titratable acidity, and tannins. There are a handful of ways to adjust the pH, here are the most widely used methods: 1  malolactic fermentation (deacidifies wine). 2  blending similar finished wines with different acid levels (can be used to raise or lower pH). In essence it affects nearly every aspect of your wine. The pH affect flavor, aroma, color, tartrate precipitation, carbon dioxide absorption, malolactic fermentation, stability, ageablity, and fermentation rate. These are just a handful of the more noticeable affects. It can also affect the many chemical reactions that take place in a wine during and after fermentation
During fermentation, yeasts transform sugars present in the juice into ethanol and carbon dioxide (as a by-product). In winemaking, the temperature and speed of fermentation are important considerations as well as the levels of oxygen present in the must at the start of the fermentation. The absence of oxygen in this anaerobic process allows the acetaldehyde to be eventually converted, by reduction, to ethanol. During the conversion of acetaldehyde, a small amount is converted, by oxidation, to acetic acid which, in excess, can contribute to the wine fault known as volatile acidity (vinegar taint). After the yeast has exhausted its life cycle, they fall to the bottom of the fermentation tank as sediment known as lees
Before fermentation a portion of the juice is treated wherein all the acid is removed and then added back to the rest of the juice. Do not use this procedure on wine, as the portion treated will have a pH close to 8.0 and the wine will oxidize irrespective of its SO2 content. 
Starting your juice out with the proper level of acidity is essential. Acidity is a major component to producing a stable wine with an agreeable balance and overall character. Without controlling acidity the result can be a wine that either tastes too sharp at one extreme, or flat and lifeless at the other.