Again, their statements are not evidence. Stage 4 - Judge’s Instructions to the jury as to the law. The judge will indicate the issues the jury should decide and explain the process of deliberation. In a case tried before a jury, the jury must decide what happened on the basis of the evidence presented. Once the judge has given these instructions, the case is. to the jury. Any jury alternates who have been sitting on the case will be excused at this time. The jury will retire to the jury room to begin its deliberation. Please note that this is the first opportunity for jurors to speak about the facts of the case.
Factsheet – What happens at a Crown Court trial – An introduction. Please note that in the Crown Court, you can be represented by either a solicitor advocate or by a barrister. Remember, this is your choice. 
At the beginning of the trial, the court holds a preliminary hearing with the defendant. During this hearing, the jury is not present. Instead, the judge lets the defendant know what she is being accused of and what her rights are in regard to a trial. If the defendant does not have an attorney and cannot afford one, the judge can appoint one for her. Whether the trial is in front of a judge alone or a jury is involved, the verdict is given after the closing statements. Once the statements are completed, the judge or the jury dismiss to deliberate whether the defendant is guilty or not.
1 In a criminal trial, the trier of fact (which can be either the judge or a jury) decides whether the defendant committed the crime. 2  The standard used in criminal cases is beyond a reasonable doubt - that is, there is no reasonable doubt in the judge or jurors' minds that the defendant committed the crime. Trial. 1 
Pretrial. Most of the progress of a federal case happens in what is called the pretrial phase, and will include actions that must occur before the start of the trial. Strict rules and policies dictate what happens at the pretrial stage of both types of cases. 1 If settlement cannot be reached, the case moves toward trial. 2  To prepare for trial, both sides will conduct discovery. 3  During discovery, both parties gather all the information and evidence they will present in court. 4  Both sides can take depositions of witnesses.
In civil cases, if the jury (or judge) decides in favor of the plaintiff, the judge usually orders the defendant to pay the plaintiff money (damages) or to take some specific action that will restore the plaintiff's rights. If the defendant wins the case, however, there is nothing more the trial court needs to do. If the court of appeals decides that the trial judge incorrectly interpreted the law, as in our example, then it will reverse the district court's decision. In other words, the court of appeals will say that the district judge made a mistake in interpreting the law, and thus the defendants are not guilty after all.
Bench Trial. A bench trial in criminal court can only occur when the prosecution and the defense agree. In a bench trial, there is no jury because the judge is the fact finder. The judge hears opening statements, the presentation of evidence and closing arguments, and then decides whether a crime has been committed and whether the client is criminally responsible as charged. The jury, not the judge, is the fact finder. During jury selection the judge, prosecutor and defense attorney question prospective jurors and then select the jury. The trial begins when the jury is sworn. Although every trial is different, there are specific elements that make up the proceeding
Verdict. Whether the trial is in front of a judge alone or a jury is involved, the verdict is given after the closing statements. Once the statements are completed, the judge or the jury dismiss to deliberate whether the defendant is guilty or not.
Trial. A trial is the fact-finding phase of a case and is held to determine the guilt or innocence of the defendant. It is the prosecution s burden to prove the client s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The jury, not the judge, is the fact finder. During jury selection the judge, prosecutor and defense attorney question prospective jurors and then select the jury. The trial begins when the jury is sworn. Although every trial is different, there are specific elements that make up the proceeding