A set of neoprene seat covers for your CJ, YJ, TJ or Wrangler will have the inside of your Jeep looking new again while protecting the investment you made. We are pleased to offer you a line of neoprene seat covers from Coverking, a vendor we selected for quality, value and outstanding customer service. There is a full 1 year warranty and we've had very good luck with workmanship. We apologize for the delay. We are pleased to offer you a line of neoprene seat covers from Coverking, a vendor we selected for quality, value and outstanding customer service. There is a full 1 year warranty and we've had very good luck with workmanship.
Coverking Neoprene car seat covers are genuine CR-Grade, the finest pure neoprene available, a high tech material that is used in scuba diving & surfing wetsuits, and has a waterproof rubber lining and a nice cushion feel. Superior cushioning, colorfastness, and breathability is far superior to the imitation neoprene materials available. Coverking Custom Neoprene Car Seat Covers offer the best fit and style. Coverking uses genuine CR-grade neoprene with foam backing over the entire seat cover, not just the front.
When you think Neoprene, you might think wetsuit material. Many Neoprene seat covers are made from the same material inside wetsuits, but we use an automotive grade material called Neo-Supreme. This material is high-wearing, highly water resistant, and UV protected. Also very similar to Neoprene car seat covers, we have a quite the selection in colors. We offer 9 colors that will suit all different tastes and personalities! If you are trying to go for a more subtle, classic look, our most popular color combination is Neo-Supreme Black with Charcoal inserts.
How good are neoprene seat covers. Im thinking of purchasing neoprene seat covers (Wet Okole). My wife says neoprene will smell (like rubber, and forever). Folks on other threads and forums say they are hot, they fade easily (the black turns purplish), and they absorb sweat and smell worse over time.
Be sure to check out the Coverking Neoprene Seat Covers as well. Made to order, these seat covers boast precision-CAD patterns that make for a snug fit that rivals the factory original. Plus, the treated neoprene fabric resists UV damage, stains, mildew and rot. What’s more, they install easily with no tools required. Search for neoprene seat covers reviews for your specific vehicle by typing Wet Okole seat covers Toyota 4Runner or neoprene seat covers Toyota Camry in the search bar. We make it easy for you to get all the information you need to make an informed buying decision. 1  2012 ford focus seat covers.
Neoprene Jeep Wrangler Seat Covers are the finest in upgrades for your Wrangler. The neoprene material holds up well, is water resistant and looks great. Each set is custom made for your particular Jeep Wrangler model and year for a truly custom fit. We apologize for the delay. We are pleased to offer you a line of neoprene seat covers from Coverking, a vendor we selected for quality, value and outstanding customer service. There is a full 1 year warranty and we've had very good luck with workmanship.
Neoprene pet proof seat covers. Our neoprene pet proof seat covers have nylon bonded to both sides for easier installation, better fit and ultimate protection. They are made with separate covers for head rests and arm rests. We use only the best quality CR 100% neoprene on our custom car seat covers. 
The Top Neoprene Seat Covers. When it comes to choosing your new neoprene seat covers, you’ll want to choose from the brand names you can trust. While there are many imitators, brands like CalTrend, Coverking, Wet Okole and Saddleman have made a name for themselves in the seat covers industry. Search for neoprene seat covers reviews for your specific vehicle by typing Wet Okole seat covers Toyota 4Runner or neoprene seat covers Toyota Camry in the search bar. We make it easy for you to get all the information you need to make an informed buying decision. 1  2012 ford focus seat covers.
Coverking CR Grade Neoprene Custom Seat Covers fit your seats just like a wetsuit. They're fully custom-cut and stitched to your exact vehicle to ensure a perfect, super-tight fit and a hassle-free installation. They're the perfect car seat cover if you live a more active lifestyle. Coverking takes great pride in their manufacturing process. Your Coverking CR Grade Neoprene Seat Covers are custom made-to-order by skilled Americans in America-no sweatshop labor or inhumane working conditions here. Their state-of-the-art facility ensures the highest quality products with the best fit in the industry.