NONNATIVE INVASIVE TREE SQUIRRELS The Eastern gray squirrel and Eastern fox squirrel are nonnative invasive species of concern in the state. While their effects on Oregon’s ecosystems are not fully understood, there is enough evidence to consider them a threat to native squirrel populations. Douglas squirrel American red squirrel Northern flying squirrel. Eastern gray squirrelEastern gray squirrel The Eastern gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) was first introduced to Oregon in 1918 on Salem’s Capitol grounds, before the dangers of invasive species were well understood.
Sciurus carolinensis, common name eastern gray squirrel or grey squirrel depending on region, is a tree squirrel in the genus Sciurus. It is native to eastern North America, but has since been introduced to European regions. A prolific and adaptable species, the eastern gray squirrel has been introduced to, and thrives in, several regions of the western United States, where in a few areas it competes with the shyer western gray squirrel (Sciurus griseus).
Labels: black squirrels, grey squirrels, invasive species, invasive species uUK, invasive squirrel species, red squirrels, squirrel, UK squirrels. UK Invasive Species – War of the Grey and Black Squirrels. Grey and black squirrels are actually the same species, but a genetic mutation caused an excess of melanin to be produced in some squirrels that caused the black pigmentation of the fur.
Share on Facebook. The Eastern Gray Squirrel, native to the USA, but considered an invasive species in Western Europe, is driving out the native European Red Squirrel. A prolific and adaptable species, the gray squirrel has been introduced to, and thrives, in several regions of the western United States
By Laura Fitzpatrick Tuesday, Feb. 02, 2010. You wouldn't guess to look at it, but the deceptively adorable gray squirrel could be the most loathed animal in Britain. Grays, which are native to North America, carry deadly squirrel pox, to which they are immune but native red squirrels are vulnerable. 
The Eastern grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) may be cute and fuzzy to on-lookers, especially in the popular tourist areas of Stanley Park in Vancouver, but it is an invasive mammal in British Columbia that is ranked by the Invasive Species Specialist Group (ISSG) as one of the Top 100 Invasive Species in the world. Eastern grey squirrels are identifiable by their dark to pale grey backs that may be brushed with cinnamon on hips, feet, and head. Ears are buff to grey to white, and its tail is white to pale grey. Prevention and persistence are key to management of the Eastern grey squirrel.
View slideshow of invasive species. Gray squirrel may look cute and harmless with their twitchy noses, piercing peepers and oh-so-bushy tails. But an international team of scientists recently named the furry beasties one of Europe's 100 worst environmental offenders. 
Threat(s): In Europe, Sciurus carolinensis is considered extremely destructive to native trees and the only native squirrel species, Sciurus vulgaris. The Grey Squirrel has made it to the Invasive Species Specialist Group of the World Conservation Union s list of 100 of the World s Worst Invasive Alien Species. 
These Eastern grey squirrels are considered an invasive species in Europe because of their presence contributing to the displacement of the red squirrels. The invasion of the grey squirrel in the United Kingdom can be classified as a Disease Mediated Invasion (DMI). They eat large seeds, flowers, buds, fruits, fungi, some insects, and occasionally bird eggs. The Eastern Grey Squirrel was introduced to Continental Europe in 1948, and has quickly taken advantage of Europe’s food sources, habitats, and lack of predators for grey