1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not.
up vote 8 down vote favorite. In order to survive, prokaryotes such as bacteria need to produce energy from food such as glucose. In eukaryotic cells, respiration is performed by mitochondria, but prokaryotic cells do not have membrane-enclosed organelles. 
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. 
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division. 
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival. In prokaryotes, the DNA (chromosome) is in contact with the cellular cytoplasm and is not in a housed membrane-bound nucleus. In eukaryotes, however, the DNA takes the form of compact chromosomes separated from the rest of the cell by a nuclear membrane (also called a nuclear envelope).
The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA
have a cell nucleus or any membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria. That is, neither the DNA of prokaryotic cells nor any of the sites of metabolic activity within a prokaryotic cell are collected together in a discrete membrane-enclosed area. 
A prokaryote is a single-celled organism that lacks a membrane-bound nucleus (karyon), mitochondria, or any other membrane-bound organelle. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria.
Mitochondria are membrane-bound organelles found in eukaryotic  cells but not in prokaryotic cells. Biochemical processes, such as  respiration and energy production, occur … in the mitochondria. Answered. 
In Cell Biology (cytology). -Mitochondria are organelles within eukaryotic cells-Mitochondria themselves are not cells, but are believed to have once been a cell themselves because they have a double … membrane and their own genetic material...DNA-Plant and animal cells are eukaryotic. 1 person found this useful. Answered. 