Free Dental Insurance Quotes! Average Dental Costs How to find the average cost of dental insurance-Estimates for procedures are below. If you are employed, there is a high possibility that dental insurance is provided to you by your employer.
Dental out-of-pocket expenses constituted more than one-quarter (27%) of overall health care out-of-pocket costs. The overall average amount of out-of-pocket health care costs per household for medical, prescription, and dental care was $3,231. The average for dental out-of-pocket costs was $873. Dental out-of-pocket costs exceeded the average amount of prescription out-of-pocket costs ($700). Seven percent of respondents had debt resulting from obtaining dental services.
Meanwhile, paying out of your own pocket for two exams and cleanings and a set of X-rays in 2011 would have cost about $370, on average, according to the American Dental Association.
Factoring in the estimated cost of premiums for those with dental insurance, the average amount spent on dental care was similar for those with ($978) and without ($1,007) dental insurance.
The cost of dental care has consistently risen by nearly twice the average rate of inflation over the past half-century. In addition to rising dental costs, the number of consumers with access to dental insurance decreased 5.7% from 2009 to 2010 alone, leaving only about 45% of Americans with dental insurance.
Without dental insurance, the national average costs of common preventive services are as follows, according to the American Dental Association [1] : 1  Periodic examination by a general dentist – $44.10. 2  Prophylaxis (cleaning) – $61.14 (child), $82.08 (adult). 3  Topical fluoride application – $31.70 (child), $32.59 (adult).
Everyone needs dental care at some point. However, not everyone wants to pay for insurance coverage. Chances are you’ve thought about costs tied to proper treatment. If you’re considering covering dental costs out-of-pocket on a per-treatment basis, knowing common procedure costs is important.