Introduction [edit]. Probably the oldest sensory system in the nature, the olfactory system concerns the sense of smell. The olfactory system is physiologically strongly related to the gustatory system, so that the two are often examined together. Complex flavors require both taste and smell sensation to be recognized. 
Olfactory-auditory sensory integration in the olfactory tubercle. Bar graphs of average stimulus evoked responses across 17 units in response to tone (left), odor (middle, see methods for odor) and simultaneous tone and odor presentations (right column). Thus, both accessory and main olfactory systems converge in the olfactory tubercle—presenting this structure as a ‘mixed’ olfactory cortex (Martinez-Marcos, 2009). These anatomical points highlight the likely role of the tubercle in the processing of odors.
The organization of projections from the olfactory bulb to the piriform cortex and olfactory tubercle in the rat. Scott JW, McBride RL, Schneider SP. Following most of these injections, HRP-labeled axons could be traced in discrete fascicles through the fiber layer of the cortex or tubercle. These observations indicate that axons innervating the piriform cortex do not emit many long collaterals after they leave the lateral olfactory tract.
Mitral cells send their axons to a number of brain areas, including the anterior olfactory nucleus, piriform cortex, the medial amygdala, the entorhinal cortex, and the olfactory tubercle. The piriform cortex is probably the area most closely associated with identifying the odor. The olfactory nerve, similar to the optic nerve, is not part of the peripheral nervous system but is defined as a part of the brain. This nerve terminates in the olfactory bulb, which also belongs to the central nervous system.
The role of the olfactory tubercle in odor information processing. The role of the olfactory tubercle in olfactory coding has received relatively little attention. This may be due to historical patterns of research interest in the olfactory bulb and piriform cortex leading future researchers to follow in suit. Thus, both accessory and main olfactory systems converge in the olfactory tubercle—presenting this structure as a ‘mixed’ olfactory cortex (Martinez-Marcos, 2009). These anatomical points highlight the likely role of the tubercle in the processing of odors.
Medical Definition of OLFACTORY TUBERCLE. : a small area of gray matter behind the olfactory trigone that is noted for being innervated by dopaminergic neurons from the ventral tegmental area. What made you want to look up olfactory tubercle?
(February 2011). The olfactory system is the sensory system used for olfaction, or the sense of smell. Most mammals and reptiles have two distinct parts to their olfactory system: a main olfactory system and an accessory olfactory system. The olfactory nerve, similar to the optic nerve, is not part of the peripheral nervous system but is defined as a part of the brain. This nerve terminates in the olfactory bulb, which also belongs to the central nervous system.
Since its designation in 1896 as a putative olfactory structure, the olfactory tubercle has received little attention in terms of elucidating its role in the processing and perception of odors. Instead, research on the olfactory tubercle has mostly focused on its relationship with the reward system. Thus, both accessory and main olfactory systems converge in the olfactory tubercle—presenting this structure as a ‘mixed’ olfactory cortex (Martinez-Marcos, 2009). These anatomical points highlight the likely role of the tubercle in the processing of odors.
Olfactory neurons transduce receptor activation into electrical signals in neurons. The signals travel along the olfactory nerve. The olfactory nerve, similar to the optic nerve, is not part of the peripheral nervous system but is defined as a part of the brain. This nerve terminates in the olfactory bulb, which also belongs to the central nervous system.
Overview. The olfactory nerve is the shortest cranial nerve and is the nerve which transmits special sensory information, allowing us to have a sense of smell. It is one of two nerves that do not join with the brainstem, the other being the optic nerve. The nerve consists of two processes: 1  Peripheral olfactory processes (receptors) in the olfactory mucosa. 2  Central processes that return the information to the brain.