Meaning: The German name Johanna means-From the Hebrew, meaning God is gracious.. Well-known people with this name include romance novelist Johanna Lindsey, and Heidi author Johanna Spyri. Rating: Variants: 
The name Johanna is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Johanna is: American Meaning: The name Johanna is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Johanna is: Hebrew Meaning: The name Johanna is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Johanna is: Gift from God. Swedish Meaning: The name Johanna is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Johanna is: Gracious. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Joanna is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Joanna is: Gift from God. American Meaning: The name Joanna is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Joanna is: Gift from God. French Meaning: The name Joanna is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Joanna is: God's gift.
The name Joanna is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Joanna is: Feminine of John. Latin Meaning: The name Joanna is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Joanna is: God is gracious. The name Joanna is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Joanna is: Gift from God. French Meaning: The name Joanna is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Joanna is: God's gift.
Johanna is a feminine name, a variant form of Joanna that originated in Latin in the Middle Ages, including an-h- by analogy with the Latin masculine name Johannes. The original Greek form Iōanna lacks a medial /h/ because in Greek /h/ could only occur initially. 
Johanna /jo-han-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced yoh-HAHN-ah, joh-HAHN-ah. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Johanna is God is gracious. Feminine of John; variant of Joanna. See also Joan. Kreatif forms: Jahanna, Johanca, Johanja. 
Origin of the name Johanna: Middle Latin feminine form of Joannes (God is gracious). The name is derived from the Greek Iōannes, a derivative of the Hebrew Yehanan, a short form of Yehohanan, which is from yehōhānān (Yahweh is gracious). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
In German, the name Johanna means-god is gracious. Other origins for the name Johanna include-German, Hebrew.The name Johanna is most often used as a girl name or female name. German Name Meaning-god is gracious. German name. In German, the name Johanna means-god is gracious. Other origins for the name Johanna include-German, Hebrew.The name Johanna is most often used as a girl name or female name. German Name Meaning-god is gracious. Origin-Germany.
Origin of the name Joanna: Middle Latin feminine form of Joannes (God is gracious). The name is derived from the Greek Iōannes, a derivative of the Hebrew Yehanan, a short form of Yehohanan, which is from yehōhānān (Yahweh is gracious).