Favus is a superficial dermatophyte infection usually caused by T schoenleinii and characterized by scutula. In most patients, favus is a severe form of tinea capitis; however, it may occur, although rarely, as onychomycosis, tinea barbae, or tinea corporis.
Favus is a fungal infection which affects the scalp. It is usually caused by Trichophyton schoenleinii and is a chronic condition which may result in hair loss and scarring. The majority of cases of favus are found in developing countries where poverty results in poor living conditions and malnutrition.
a fungal infection of the scalp, skin, or nails, more common in children than adults. It is caused by Trichophyton fungi. Favus is characterized by thick yellow crusts with suppuration, a honeycomb appearance, a distinct mousy odor, permanent scars, and alopecia.
favus. an infectious skin disease of humans and many animals, esp. fowl, caused by an imperfect fungus (esp. Trichophyton schoenleinii) and characterized by itching and the formation of yellow crusts usually about the hair follicles, esp. on the head.
Favus or tinea favosa is in most cases a severe form of tinea capitis. It is caused by the dermatophyte fungus Trichophyton schoenleinii and results in a honeycomb destruction of the hair shaft. Although rare, it may sometimes occur as onychomycosis, tinea barbae, or tinea corporis.
The Condition. Favus is a chronic skin condition that afflicts poultry and mammals, including humans. It is normally caused by the dermatophytic fungus Trichophyton megninii. The fungi Microsporum gypseum and T. simii have also been identified with some cases of favus.
Background. Favus, also termed tinea favosa, is a chronic inflammatory dermatophytic infection usually caused by Trichophyton schoenleinii. Rarely, favus is caused by Trichophyton violaceum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes var quinckeanum, or Microsporum gypseum.
Definition of FAVUS. : any of several contagious skin diseases caused by ascomycetous fungi (as Trichophyton schoenleinii) and occurring in humans and many domestic animals.