About Ecuador. Ecuador is situated along the north west coast of South America, and it borders the countries of Peru and Columbia. Ecuador’s capital is Quito which is less than 15 miles from the equator. The Galapagos Islands are considered a province of Ecuador. Ecuador is divided into 24 provinces. Its three largest cities are Guayaquil, Quito, and Cuenca. The national currency is the US dollar. With the Andes Mountains and the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador is one of the top tourist destinations in South America.
After Guayaquil, Quito is the second most populous city of Ecuador. By virtue of situated at the elevation of 2,800 meters, Quito is the second highest capital city of the world (the first one is La Paz-Bolivia). Interestingly, Quito and Krakow have been declared as the first World Cultural Heritage Sites by UNESCO in the year 1978. Quito is the second most significant city that contributes to the national GDP after Guayaquil. It has also the second highest per capita income after Cuenca. But Quito has the highest level of tax collection in Ecuador
Quito (. [ˈkito]), formally San Francisco de Quito, is the capital city of Ecuador, and at an elevation of 2,850 metres (9,350 ft) above sea level, it is the highest official capital city in the world. Parque Bicentenario is the second largest urban park in Quito (surpassed only by the Parque Metropolitano), located in the site of the Old Mariscal Sucre International Airport. It was inaugurated on April 27, 2013. This park has 200 acres (81 ha), and it's located at 2,800 m (9,186 ft), above mean sea level.
The central square of Quito is located about 25 kilometres (16 mi) south of the equator; the city itself extends to within about 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) of zero latitude. Parque Bicentenario is the second largest urban park in Quito (surpassed only by the Parque Metropolitano), located in the site of the Old Mariscal Sucre International Airport. It was inaugurated on April 27, 2013. This park has 200 acres (81 ha), and it's located at 2,800 m (9,186 ft), above mean sea level.
Quito’s Altitude, Climate, and Weather. Quito’s altitude, at 2820 M (9252 feet), Quito is almost twice as high as Denver, Colorado. Though because it sits only 25 kilometres from the Equator, Quito does not suffer through long winters like the Mile High City. On the contrary, Ecuador’s capital enjoys mild days and cool nights almost year-round
Quito is located in the northern highlands of Ecuador in the Guayllabamba river basin. The city is built on a long plateau lying on the east flanks of the Pichincha volcano. The valley of Guayllabamba River where Quito lies is flanked by volcanoes, some of them snow-capped, and visible from the city on a clear day. Parque Bicentenario is the second largest urban park in Quito (surpassed only by the Parque Metropolitano), located in the site of the Old Mariscal Sucre International Airport. It was inaugurated on April 27, 2013. This park has 200 acres (81 ha), and it's located at 2,800 m (9,186 ft), above mean sea level.
Location of Quito on a map. Quito is a city found in Pichincha, Ecuador. It is located -0.23 latitude and -78.52 longitude and it is situated at elevation 2854 meters above sea level. Quito has a population of 1,399,814 making it the biggest city in Pichincha. It operates on the ECT time zone.
Quito is also home to the newest international airport in Latin America: Quito’s Mariscal Sucre Airport (UIO) about an hour to the east of the city. Hotels and Lodging in Quito. There are myriad Quito hotels and hostels of all types and price levels. Quito’s altitude, at 2820 M (9252 feet), Quito is almost twice as high as Denver, Colorado. Though because it sits only 25 kilometres from the Equator, Quito does not suffer through long winters like the Mile High City.
Ecuador’s main international airports are located in the cities of Quito (Mariscal Sucre Airport-UIO), Guayaquil (Simon Simón Bolivar-BOLíVAR) , airport Gye (And Manta Eloy-ALFARO). Airport mec In, the galapagos the main airport is located on the Island. of baltra Ecuador is divided into 24 provinces. Its three largest cities are Guayaquil, Quito, and Cuenca. The national currency is the US dollar. With the Andes Mountains and the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador is one of the top tourist destinations in South America.
Quito, Ecuador’s Travel Epicenter Quito is the perfect place to begin exploring Ecuador with, as it’s very centrally located, there are numerous outdoor activities within an hour or two, and it is here where most tours are organized to all corners of the country. Quito’s altitude, at 2820 M (9252 feet), Quito is almost twice as high as Denver, Colorado. Though because it sits only 25 kilometres from the Equator, Quito does not suffer through long winters like the Mile High City.