Because of the lean meat that cod has, it is best to cook it with moist heat. Probably one of the most common ways of cooking cod is either breaded or battered and fried. But with such a mild flavor, cod is an excellent fish for such seasonings as dill, basil, tarragon and ginger. The names you will see most common with cod is Scrod Cod, Icelandic Cod and the Lingcod which isn't even a Cod. Scrod Cod is a term used for smaller cod under 2 1/2 pounds. Icelandic cod is for fish caught in Icelandic waters. The cod belongs in the Gadidae family which also includes haddock, pollock, hake and hoki
Cod is the common name for the genus Gadus of demersal fishes, belonging to the family Gadidae. Cod is also used as part of the common name for a number of other fish species, and there are species suggested to belong to genus Gadus that are not called cod (the Alaska pollock). Cod is popular as a food with a mild flavor and a dense, flaky white flesh. Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA). Young Atlantic cod or haddock prepared in strips for cooking is called scrod
Eating fried fish, however, provided no similar protection. Not only is fried fish typically made from lean fish like cod and Pollack that provide fewer omega-3 fatty acids, but in addition, frying results in the production of damaged, free-radical-laden fats in the fish as well as the frying oil. Practical Tip: A typical serving of fish is 4 ounces, so just 3 servings of omega-3-rich fish, such as cod, each week would provide 2 ounces more than the 10 ounces this research indicates confers significant protection against sudden death from a heart attack.
Cod is a popular white fish that is meaty and contains very few bones. It's a versatile fish that can be cooked in a number of ways that include pan-frying, broiling, and poaching. Although cod is high in cholesterol, it is low in saturated fat, high in Omega 3 oil and an excellent source of vitamins and minerals. 
This fish has a light flavor and is used in many popular fish dinners! Fish being essential to many diets. Presented here is general information of Atlantic Cod, its reproduction, habitat, food, fishing season, angling tips, handling and cooking. General information: The Atlantic Cod is native to most of the North Atlantic Ocean.
Cod is popular as a food with a mild flavour and a dense, flaky white flesh. Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA). Young Atlantic cod or haddock prepared in strips for cooking is called scrod. Cod is popular as a food with a mild flavor and a dense, flaky white flesh. Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA).
Cod Fish is sometimes referred to as the Chicken of the Sea, because of it's white flaky meat and mild taste. There is actually 2 species of Cod, Atlantic and Pacific. The names you will see most common with cod is Scrod Cod, Icelandic Cod and the Lingcod which isn't even a Cod. Scrod Cod is a term used for smaller cod under 2 1/2 pounds. Icelandic cod is for fish caught in Icelandic waters. The cod belongs in the Gadidae family which also includes haddock, pollock, hake and hoki
Cod is the common name for fish of the genus Gadus, belonging to the family Gadidae, and this article is confined to the three species that belong to this genus: the Atlantic cod, the Pacific cod and the Greenland cod. Cod are demersal fish found in huge schools confined to temperate waters in the northern hemisphere. Atlantic cod are found in the colder waters and deeper sea regions throughout the Northern Atlantic. The Pacific cod is found in both eastern and western regions of the Pacific