Tramadol (Ultram) is narcotic-like pain reliever. Tizanidine (Zanaflex) is a drug that is used as a muscle relaxant. Some routes of admistration ma … y provide an increased desired effect from the typical oral reccomendation. This may exaggerate known side effects or can produce new ones and is not reccomended.
Zanaflex® (tizanidine hydrochloride) is a central alpha2-adrenergic agonist. Tizanidine HCl is a white to off-white, fine crystalline powder, which is odorless or with a faint characteristic odor. Tizanidine is slightly soluble in water and methanol; solubility in water decreases as the pH increases. Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  feeling light-headed, fainting, slow heart rate; 2  hallucinations, confusion, unusual thoughts or behavior; 3  nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); or.
In some situations, it may endanger your physical safety to be in a state of reduced muscle tone. Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, other muscle relaxers, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepiness caused by Zanaflex. Zanaflex is a short-acting medication that should be taken only for daily activities that require relief from muscle spasticity. Do not take Zanaflex if you are also taking the antidepressant fluvoxamine (Luvox), or the antibiotic ciprofloxacin (Cipro).
Do not take more than three doses (36 mg) of tizanidine in a 24-hour period. Too much of this medication can damage your liver. Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, other muscle relaxers, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepiness caused by tizanidine. Tell your doctor if you need to use any of these other medicines together with tizanidine. Avoid drinking alcohol.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking other products that cause drowsiness including alcohol, antihistamines (such as cetirizine, diphenhydramine), drugs for sleep or anxiety (such as alprazolam, diazepam, zolpidem), other muscle relaxants, and narcotic pain relievers (such as codeine). Be sure to discuss with your doctor how to take this medication to determine the best way to take your dose, especially when changes to your dose are being considered or if your doctor prescribes a different form of tizanidine (such as tablet or capsule).
Zanaflex® tablets are supplied as 4 mg tablets for oral administration. Zanaflex® tablets contain the active ingredient, tizanidine hydrochloride (4.58 mg equivalent to 4 mg tizanidine base), and the inactive ingredients, colloidal silicon dioxide, stearic acid, microcrystalline cellulose and anhydrous lactose. Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  feeling light-headed, fainting, slow heart rate; 2  hallucinations, confusion, unusual thoughts or behavior; 3  nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); or.
Do not take more than three doses (36 mg) of Zanaflex in a 24-hour period. Too much of this medication can damage your liver. Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, other muscle relaxers, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepiness caused by Zanaflex. Zanaflex is a short-acting medication that should be taken only for daily activities that require relief from muscle spasticity. Do not take Zanaflex if you are also taking the antidepressant fluvoxamine (Luvox), or the antibiotic ciprofloxacin (Cipro).
Tizanidine is a short-acting muscle relaxer that's marketed under the brand name Zanaflex. It is used to treat muscle spasms caused by certain conditions such as multiple sclerosis, ALS, or spinal cord injury. It is also prescribed off-label for certain headache disorders, symptoms of fibromyalgia, and as a sleep aid. Tizanidine works by blocking nerve impulses that are sent to your brain. Tizanidine (Zanaflex) Interactions. Do not take tizanidine if you are also taking the antidepressant fluvoxamine (Luvox) or the antibiotic ciprofloxacin (Cipro). Let your doctor know all other medicines you are taking before he prescribes tizanidine.
Zanaflex is a short-acting muscle relaxer. It works by blocking nerve impulses (pain sensations) that are sent to your brain. Zanaflex is used to treat spasticity by temporarily relaxing muscle tone. Zanaflex may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. Zanaflex is a short-acting medication that should be taken only for daily activities that require relief from muscle spasticity. Do not take Zanaflex if you are also taking the antidepressant fluvoxamine (Luvox), or the antibiotic ciprofloxacin (Cipro).
Do not take more than three doses (36 mg) of tizanidine in a 24-hour period. Too much of this medication can damage your liver. Cold or allergy medicine, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, other muscle relaxers, and medicine for seizures, depression or anxiety can add to sleepiness caused by tizanidine. Tell your doctor if you need to use any of these other medicines together with tizanidine. Avoid drinking alcohol.