Boletus pinophilus, commonly known as the pine bolete or pinewood king bolete, is a basidiomycete fungus of the genus Boletus found throughout Europe. For many years, Boletus pinophilus was considered a subspecies or form of the porcini mushroom B. edulis. In 2008, B. pinophilus in western North America were reclassified as a new species, Boletus rex-veris. Boletus pinophilus is edible, and may be preserved and cooked. 
For starters, mushrooms are the reproductive bodies or fruits a fungus. The main body of the fungus is in the form of white, thread-like structures called mycelium. The structures of a typical gilled mushroom consist of a cap, gills and a stalk. Boletus. One of the most common and well-known groups of edible wild mushrooms are the boletes or boletus species (Boletaceae). These mushrooms have fleshy caps, and central stalk, and the reproductive parts underneath the cap are made of tubes. These tubes open up into pores at the bottom.
September's Wild Food of the Month. Porcini or Cep. The king of edible fungi. The King Bolete (Boletus edulis) has a variety of common names because it has become so beloved around the world for it's firm texture and distinctive flavor. It is known as the Cep in France and Porcini in Italy, but here in the states it is simply known as the king... Bolete that is.
As with other strictly mycorrhizal fungi, the Porcini has eluded attempts for cultivation. Porcini mushrooms are an edible wild mushroom whose fruitbody can be described as having a dense, white stipe (stem) that will turn yellow-brown with age. It has a large cap that is pale to rust brown and continues to darken as it matures. At maturity the cap is three to ten inches broad and has a slightly sticky feel. 
Due to their strong nutty flavor, this is an incredibly popular gourmet mushroom. Like so many other good edible mushrooms, porcini are mycorrhizal. This means that the underground vegetative growth of the mushroom, called the mycelia, enters into a symbiotic relationship with the roots of plants. After your mushrooms are cleaned and inspected, simply chop and use in your favorite Italian recipe! A famous way to prepare porcini is grilled or stewed with some thyme or nipitella. However, you can use this versatile gourmet mushroom in a variety of ways:
Porcini (Boletus edulis, the taxonomic name) is a highly regarded edible mushroom. It has a number of English names, including cep (from its Catalan name cep or its French name cepe), cèpe king bolete and penny. Bun a common term in current use is. porcini This mushroom has a higher water content than other edible mushrooms and has a distinct aroma reminiscent of fermented dough. Boletus edulis can be found most commonly in Europe, Asia and North America. The Borgotaro area of Parma in Italy holds an Annual Festival of the Porcini.
Boletus edulis, known as the Cep, Porcino or Penny-bun Bolete, is a most sought-after edible bolete. It is frequently found at the edges of clearings in broad-leaved and coniferous forests. Most boletes, and certainly all of the common ones found in Britain and Ireland, are ectomycorrhizal fungi. 
The genus Leccinum, scaber stalk mushrooms, with white pores and black scales on their white pillarlike stems, and the genus Suillus, slippery jacks, with sticky caps, gray-white to yellow pores, and narrower stems are among the edible boletes. However, those with red pores must be avoided. They are dangerous. If there is a universally popular wild mushroom, it may be Boletus edulis. The French refer to them affectionately as c pes, the Germans glorify them as Steinpilz, and the Italians are wild about their porcini, meaning piglets (pigs compete for them). The Swedish refer to their treasures as stensopp.
1 The name porcini means piglets in Italian. 2  They're also known as the king bolete, cepe (cèpe In), French (steinpilz the stone mushroom In), german and a host of other fun names from all over the. 3  World The latin name Is boletus. 4  Edulis the term porcini mushroom actually refers to a few different.  species After your mushrooms are cleaned and inspected, simply chop and use in your favorite Italian recipe! A famous way to prepare porcini is grilled or stewed with some thyme or nipitella. However, you can use this versatile gourmet mushroom in a variety of ways: