Best Answer: Typically you ovulate miway through your cycle. During a 28 day cycle you should ovulate on day 14. This can vary and be a little early or later. The key concept according to my OB/GYN is that the luteal phase is 14 days long (see below for further information). It about 14 to 19 days from the first day of your period to your ovulation and then from 10 to 15 days to your next period. Not everyone is the same, as you know and not every women ovulates fourteen days from her period or has her period fourteen days from ovulation. Charting would help.
Report Abuse. It about 14 to 19 days from the first day of your period to your ovulation and then from 10 to 15 days to your next period. Not everyone is the same, as you know and not every women ovulates fourteen days from her period or has her period fourteen days from ovulation. Charting would help.
There is not a way to know for certain how long after your period you will ovulate, however. Ovulation does not occur in relation to the previous period, but rather to the next period. You will ovulate 14 days prior to the start of your next menstrual cycle. This means, then, that if you have a 28-day cycle, you will ovulate roughly 14 days after your period, and 14 days prior to the start of your next period. If you have a 31 day cycle, however, you will ovulate roughly 17 days after your period, and, again, 14 days prior to the start of your next period. If you are trying to conceive, you should begin to have intercourse roughly 4-5 days prior to ovulation, as the sperm can live in the body for about 5 days. 
Every women is different and when you ovulate depends on how long your cycle is and if you are regular. But in general, if you have a 28 day cycle you would ovulate on or around day 14. To be safe, most trying to conceive guidelines will use day 10-20 as your fertile window. (Day 1 being the first day of your period). 
Your chances of getting pregnant just after your period depend on how short your menstrual cycle is, and how long your period lasts. One of your ovaries will release an egg (ovulation) about 12 to 14 days before your period starts. The first day of your period, when you start bleeding, is counted as the first day of your cycle. If you have a 28-day cycle, you'll usually ovulate some time between day 12 and day 16 of your cycle. If your cycle is short, 22 days for example, then you could ovulate just days after your period, if your period lasted seven days. The longest that sperm can survive in fertile cervical mucus is
39 Followers. A. By convention, the first day of your period is the first day of your menstrual cycle. Around day 7 several eggs start to develop in your ovaries. However, only one egg will predominate and be release when you ovulate. For the average menstrual cycle, which is 28-32 days ovulation occurs on day 14
The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period. The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window.
During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days. The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window.
The Association estimates that ovulation occurs anywhere between 11-21 days after the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), or 12-16 days from when you expect the next menstrual period to start. Order a Fertility Kit or Monitor. The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window.