Monosaccharides: glucose, fructose, galactose. Three characteristics are used to classify monosaccharides: aldose-monosaccharide in which the carbonyl group is an aldehyde. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Carbohydrates or saccharides are the most abundant class of biomolecules. Carbohydrates are used to store energy, though they serve other important functions as well. This is an overview of carbohydrate chemistry, including a look at the types of carbohydrates, their functions, and carbohydrate classification.
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The characteristics of a carbohydrate includes the fact that it is made up of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. The organic compound is present in the plant and animal kingdom and form one of the main nutrients in a healthy diet. 
Terminology. All carbs are constructed of chains of sugar molecules, which your body converts to glucose for immediate energy, glycogen for stored cell energy, or fat for eventual energy. The sugars found in vegetables, grains, beans and peas are called starches, and those that your body can’t digest are called fiber. The term sugars refers to those found in fruits, milk and milk products, and all sugars added to processed foods -- which creates confusion.
General Characteristics Introduction. Carbohydrates include simple sugar molecules and also complex carbohydrates and they are also called saccharides and as such can be sub-divided into the classes of monosaccharides, disaccharides, and polysaccharides of which you will learn quite a bit as we go through the lesson. 
Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fructose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose.
Simple Sugars. Simple sugars are another characteristic of carbohydrates. Also called monosaccharides, simple sugars include fructose, glucose and galactose. Fructose is often found in fruit, whereas galactose is found in milk. Both are converted to glucose by the liver. Glucose is the body's energy source. Complex Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates also are characterized by the presence of complex carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates are composed of chains of sugar linked together. Amylose is a common sugar found in
Glucose is the most common simple carbohydrate. Photo Credit: Image credit: Steven Berg. Carbohydrates are one of the four major classes of organic compounds in living cells. They are produced during photosynthesis and are the main sources of energy for plants and animals. The term carbohydrate is used when referring to a saccharide or sugar and its derivatives. Carbohydrates can be simple sugars or monosaccharides, double sugars or disaccharides, composed of a few sugars or oligosaccharides, or composed of many sugars or polysaccharides.