A real lightning rod attracts lightning to it. A person is said to be a lightning rod to suggest they attract something to them, most often criticism, controversy, or negative comments. Usually the thing they attract is indicated in the same sentence or nearby in the context.
Lightning Rods. Lightning rods were originally developed by Benjamin Franklin. A lightning rod is very simple -- it's a pointed metal rod attached to the roof of a building. The rod might be an inch (2 cm) in diameter. It connects to a huge piece of copper or aluminum wire that's also an inch or so in diameter. The wire is connected to a conductive grid buried in the ground nearby. The purpose of lightning rods is often misunderstood.
As you can see, the purpose of the lightning rod is not to attract lightning -- it merely provides a safe option for the lightning strike to choose. This may sound a little picky, but it's not if you consider that the lightning rods only become relevant when a strike occurs or immediately after a strike occurs. The rod might be an inch (2 cm) in diameter. It connects to a huge piece of copper or aluminum wire that's also an inch or so in diameter. The wire is connected to a conductive grid buried in the ground nearby. The purpose of lightning rods is often misunderstood.
2. lightning rod-a metallic conductor that is attached to a high point and leads to the ground; protects the building from destruction by lightning. lightning conductor. conductor-a device designed to transmit electricity, heat, etc. 1. A grounded metal rod placed high on a structure to prevent damage by conducting lightning to the ground. 2. One that attracts criticism, often in such a way that criticism is diverted from something else. n.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A lightning rod is a device which is used to divert electricity from lightning into the ground, where it can dissipate harmlessly, rather than damaging structures and trees or injuring animals which happen to be walking around above the ground. 
If lightning hits the structure, it will preferentially strike the rod and be conducted to ground through the wire, instead of passing through the structure, where it could start a fire or cause electrocution. Lightning rods are also called finials, air terminals or strike termination devices. In a lightning protection system, a lightning rod is a single component of the system. The lightning rod requires a connection to earth to perform its protective function. Lightning rods come in many different forms, including hollow, solid, pointed, rounded, flat strips or even bristle brush-like. 
Lightning is the phenomenon which accompanies the discharge of atmospheric charges from cloud to cloud or from cloud to earth. As lightning seeks the path of least resistance, it naturally tends to follow the shortest course between cloud and earth such as buildings or towering projections. 
Franklin suggested that a lightning rod protects a building by one of two methods. First, the rod serves to prevent a charged cloud from releasing a bolt of lightning. And second, the lightning rod serves to safely divert the lightning to the ground in event that the cloud does discharge its lightning via a bolt. Tall buildings, farmhouses and other structures susceptible to lightning strikes are often equipped with lightning rods. The attachment of a grounded lightning rod to a building is a protective measure that is taken to protect the building in the event of a lightning strike.
lightning rod. noun. Tweet. : a metal rod that is placed on a building and connected with the ground below to protect the building from being damaged by lightning. : someone or something that attracts criticism or gets blamed when things go wrong. Full Definition of LIGHTNING ROD. 1. : a grounded metallic rod set up on a structure (as a building) to protect it from lightning. 2. : one that serves to divert attack from another. 3. See lightning rod defined for English-language learners.
A lightning rod (or lightning protector) is a metal strip or rod, usually of copper or similar conductive material, used as part of lightning safety to protect tall or isolated structures (such as the roof of a building or the mast of a vessel) from lightning damage. Its formal name is lightning finial or air terminal. Quite simply, actually. The rod is made of a type of metal that is a very good conductor. Lightning will be attracted to the rod, which is the path of least resistance. From t … here, the electricity passes down the rod, which is stuck in the ground, where the electricity is displaced.