The National Susan B. Anthony Museum & House shares the story of Susan B. Anthony’s lifelong struggle to gain voting rights for women and equal rights for all. The National Susan B. Anthony Museum & House was the home of the legendary American civil rights leader during the 40 most politically active years of her life, and the site of her famous arrest for voting in 1872.
Susan Brownel Anthony was born February 15, 1820, to Daniel Anthony and Lucy (Reed) Anthony in Adams, Massachusetts, the second of eight children. The Anthony family was Quaker—her great-grandfathers on her father’s side were first settlers and founders of the Friends Meeting in Adams. Susan B. Anthony summary: Susan B. Anthony was one of the driving forces of the women’s suffrage movement, a staunch equal rights advocate, and social activist.
Biography of Susan B. Anthony. Susan B. Anthony was born February 15, 1820 in Adams, Massachusetts. She was brought up in a Quaker family with long activist traditions. Early in her life she developed a sense of justice and moral zeal. After teaching for fifteen years, she became active in temperance
Born: February 15, 1820 Adams, Massachusetts Died: March 13, 1906 Rochester, New York. American women's rights activist, abolitionist, and women's suffrage leader. Susan B. Anthony was an early leader of the American women's suffrage (right to vote) movement and a pioneer in the struggle to gain equality for women. As an active abolitionist, or opponent of slavery, she campaigned for the freedom of slaves
Susan Brownell Anthony was born on February 15, 1820, to Daniel Anthony and Lucy Read in Adams, Massachusetts, the second oldest of seven children. Her family shared a passion for social reform. Her brothers Daniel and Merritt moved to Kansas to support the anti-slavery movement there. Susan Brownell Anthony (February 15, 1820 – March 13, 1906) was an American social reformer and feminist who played a pivotal role in the women's suffrage movement. Born into a Quaker family committed to social equality, she collected anti-slavery petitions at the age of 17
Introduction. Susan B. Anthony was an American civil rights leader who was instrumental in the quest to grant woman the right to vote (suffrage). Susan Brownell Anthony was born the daughter of Quaker parents. The family soon moved to New York State where Susan received her education at a school her father ran. 
Early influences. Susan Brownwell Anthony was born on February 15, 1820, in Adams, Massachusetts. She was the second of seven children born to Daniel and Lucy Read Anthony. Her father, the owner of a cotton mill, was a religious man who taught his children to show their love for God by working to help other people. Susan B. Anthony was an early leader of the American women's suffrage (right to vote) movement and a pioneer in the struggle to gain equality for women.
About Susan B Anthony. Susan Brownell Anthony is best known for promoting women's rights and starting up the women's suffrage in the United States. She was born in west Grove, Massachusetts, on February 15, 1820, and devoted most her life to anti-slavery and women's rights, including the right to vote. 
We had received a postcard from a realtor: “Susan B. Anthony’s birthplace is for sale!” I knew immediately whom to call: Carol Crossed. Carol Crossed lives in Rochester, New York, where Susan B. Anthony lived and died before her most cherished dream of women’s suffrage was realized.