Location and Function of the Occipital Lobe. The occipital lobe is located in the posterior, or back, region of the cerebrum, superior to, or above, the cerebellum. It's protected by cranial bones, with the primary protective bone being the occipital bone. Instructor: John Williams. The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain and is responsible for multiple bodily functions. The occipital lobe of the cerebrum is a major structural region. This article discusses the location and function of this key region of the cerebrum.
Cerebellum. The cerebellum is located behind the top part of the brain stem (where the spinal cord meets the brain) and is made of two hemispheres (halves). The cerebellum receives information from the sensory systems, the spinal cord, and other parts of the brain and then regulates motor movements. The cerebellum coordinates voluntary movements such as posture, balance, coordination, and speech, resulting in smooth and balanced muscular activity. 
Located at the base of the brain is the brain stem, a stalk-like structure that connects the brain to the spinal cord. The brain stem takes care of basic and involuntary functions such as breathing, blinking and bowel regulation. The back of the frontal lobe also controls movement of the opposite side of the body. Damage to the frontal system (that is, damage to the frontal lobes directly or to the connections to the frontal lobe) may cause changes in behaviour, attention, emotions and also weakness to
• The cerebellum is at the base and the back of the brain. The cerebellum is responsible for coordination and balance. The brain is also divided into several lobes: • The frontal lobes are responsible for problem solving and judgment and motor function. 
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
The frontal lobe, located at the front of the brain, is one of the four major lobes of the cerebral cortex in the mammalian brain. The frontal lobe is located at the front of each cerebral hemisphere and positioned in front of the parietal lobe and above and in front of the temporal lobe. This personality change is characteristic of damage to the frontal lobe and was exemplified in the case of Phineas Gage. The frontal lobe is the same part of the brain that is responsible for executive functions such as planning for the future, judgment, decision-making skills, attention span, and inhibition.
The frontal lobes are considered our emotional control center and home to our personality. There is no other part of the brain where lesions can cause such a wide variety of symptoms (Kolb & Wishaw, 1990). The frontal lobes are involved in motor function, problem solving, spontaneity, memory, language, initiation, judgement, impulse control, and social and sexual behavior.
Functions of the Temporal Lobe. The lobes of the brain are responsible for specific functions of the body. This is also true of the temporal lobe and its parts. Definition of the Temporal Lobe. The brain is divided into distinctive lobes. The temporal lobe is located behind your ears and extends to both sides of the brain. The temporal lobe is involved in vision, memory, sensory input, language, emotion, and comprehension