If you were fired, your boss must prove why you should not get unemployment. If you quit, you must prove that you had a good reason to quit, and that: 1  You can work now and are looking for a job. 2  Quitting was the only reasonable thing to do. 3  Before you quit, you told (or tried to tell) your boss about the problem. If you left a job, apply for unemployment. Do this as soon as possible. You should apply even if: 1  You quit, were laid off, or fired, 2  You worked as an independent contractor or were paid cash, 3  You do not have any papers to prove you were working, or. 4  Your boss said you are not eligible.
Severance pay is not deducted from unemployment insurance benefits and does not affect your eligibility to receive benefits. The method of payment, such as a lump sum payment or payments paid to you at regular pay period intervals does not change the nature of the payment. However, you must report severance pay at the time you file your unemployment insurance claim. Benefits are paid after a claim has been filed and all eligibility requirements have been met. To be entitled to benefits an individual must be: 1  Out of work due to no fault of their own. 2  Physically able to work.
In order to receive benefits, you must: 1  Be unemployed. 2  You are unemployed if you are not working and are not earning any money. 3  You are partially unemployed if you are working less than full time for your regular employer because of a lack of work and earning less than your weekly benefit amount; and. 1 File your application for benefits. 2  This may be done on the Internet, or through the VEC call center; and, 3  Report all work you do (including temporary, part time and self-employment). 4  Report any money as it is earned (not when it’s paid to you) from any source for any week you file a request
To the best of my knowledge, if the state agrees that this is a constructive discharge situation, you would be eligible for unemployment. Usually constructive discharges are for things like harassment and unsafe work environments. I think not getting paid would qualify as well. 
Unemployment Insurance is temporary income for workers who are unemployed through no fault of their own and who are either looking for new jobs, in approved training, or awaiting recall to employment. The funding for unemployment insurance benefits comes from taxes paid by employers. Workers do not pay any of the costs. To qualify for unemployment benefits, you must have earned sufficient wages during a specified time (monetary eligibility). To collect benefits, you must meet certain legal eligibility requirements. 
If you are unemployed due to a disaster or emergency, you may be eligible for Unemployment Insurance (UI) benefits. When you file your UI claim, you must tell us that you were unemployed as a result of a disaster or emergency. UI claims can be filed online, by telephone, by mail, or by fax. Individuals who are currently unemployed or working part-time can apply for UI benefits (you cannot apply for benefits in anticipation of your last day of work). Use one of the following methods:
1 Be unemployed. 2  You are unemployed if you are not working and are not earning any money. 3  You are partially unemployed if you are working less than full time for your regular employer because of a lack of work and earning less than your weekly benefit amount; and. 4  File your application for benefits. 1 File your application for benefits. 2  This may be done on the Internet, or through the VEC call center; and, 3  Report all work you do (including temporary, part time and self-employment). 4  Report any money as it is earned (not when it’s paid to you) from any source for any week you file a request
If you get a decision that asks you to repay unemployment benefits, you may be able to ask for a waiver.. A waiver is different than an appeal. You can only ask for a waiver if you have lost all appeals or the time for appealing is over. A waiver forgives all or part of the benefits you are asked to repay. Also, if you are overpaid because of some other mistake or you or the Department of Labor made, you may have to repay those benefits. You may also have to pay interest. Or you may qualify for a waiver of repayment so that you do not have to repay.
If you are not filing for benefits at the present time but wish to change your address on our records, you must call one of the initial claim application/assistance numbers and press 3 when the system gives you your choices. 