Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells
Definition. A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen to your body's organs and tissues and transports carbon dioxide from your organs and tissues back to your lungs. If a hemoglobin test reveals that your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, it means you have a low red blood cell count (anemia). Anemia can have many different causes, including vitamin deficiencies, bleeding and chronic disease
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: 1  Weakness or fatigue. 2  Lack of energy. 3  Fainting. 4  Paleness (pallor). 5  Shortness of breath.
hemoglobin (Hb, Hgb) test, a blood test that measures the total amount of hemoglobin in the peripheral blood, which reflects the number of red blood cells in the blood. The test is normally performed as part of a complete blood count. Abnormal results. A low hemoglobin usually indicates the person has anemia. Further tests are done to discover the cause and type of anemia. Dangerously low hemoglobin levels put a person at risk of a heart attack, congestive heart failure, or stroke.
Hemoglobin is made of heme, an iron compound, and globin, a protein. The iron gives blood its red color. Hemoglobin tests make use of this red color. A chemical is added to a sample of blood to make the red blood cells burst. Abnormal results. A low hemoglobin usually indicates the person has anemia. Further tests are done to discover the cause and type of anemia. Dangerously low hemoglobin levels put a person at risk of a heart attack, congestive heart failure, or stroke.
Low hemoglobin with low RBC count and low hematocrit indicates anemia. Some causes include: 1  Excessive loss of blood from, for example, severe trauma or chronic bleeding from sites such as the digestive tract (e.g., ulcers, polyps, colon cancer), the bladder or uterus (in women, heavy menstrual bleeding, for example). The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: 1  Weakness or fatigue. 2  Lack of energy. 3  Fainting. 4  Paleness (pallor). 5  Shortness of breath.
Hemoglobin is a protein inside red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. A hemoglobin test reveals how much hemoglobin is in a person's blood, helping to diagnose and monitor anemia and polycythemia vera. Abnormal results. A low hemoglobin usually indicates the person has anemia. Further tests are done to discover the cause and type of anemia. Dangerously low hemoglobin levels put a person at risk of a heart attack, congestive heart failure, or stroke.
HGB test or Hemoglobin test is a test to determine the levels of hemoglobin circulating in the blood. Hemoglobin is contained in the red blood cells and is important in the transport of oxygen from the lungs to the various tissues of the body. It also helps in maintaining the proper structure and shape of red blood cells. If hemoglobin levels are not normal, it may indicate certain illnesses. Usually hemoglobin tests are part of CBC or complete blood count. This is a generic blood test known to many and this involves measurement of certain blood components like, red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, hematocrit, and hemoglobin. Hemoglobin tests are done to know if a person has anemia or polycythemia. These conditions involve abnormal measurements of hemoglobin in the blood. When a person has anemia, the function of the red blood cells will be hampered leading to various complications.