edit Related species. Some people believe there are two types of mermaid-those with the top half of a woman and the bottom half of a fish, and those with the top half of a fish and the bottom half of a woman. But science has shown the alternate type to be biologically impossible.
A mermaid is a legendary aquatic creature with the upper body of a female human and the tail of a fish. Mermaids appear in the folklore of many cultures worldwide, including the Near East, Europe, Africa and Asia. The first stories appeared in ancient Assyria, in which the goddess Atargatis transformed herself into a mermaid out of shame for accidentally killing her human lover. Thereafter, she took the form of a mermaid — human above the waist, fish below — although the earliest representations of Atargatis showed her as a fish with a human head and arm, similar to the Babylonian god Ea.
:: MERMAID HISTORY :: Mermaids-History of Mermaids Mermaids have long fascinated humans, right from the days of Hans Christian Anderson’s novel, The Little Mermaid, to the children of today that read about Mermaids and Mermen in J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter books. The fascination of humans with these peculiar creatures is not restricted to the West.
In ancient Syrian (~ 1000 BC), there was a goddess who went by the name of Atargatis. She was a fertility goddess whose cult eventually spread to Greece and Rome and was associated with water (especially lakes) and fish. Often depicted in mermaid form, Atargatis is perhaps the “original” mermaid. 
Mermaids have been a popular subject of art and literature in recent centuries, such as in Hans Christian Andersen 's well-known fairy tale . The Little Mermaid  (1836). They have subsequently been depicted in operas, paintings, books, films and comics. Thereafter, she took the form of a mermaid — human above the waist, fish below — although the earliest representations of Atargatis showed her as a fish with a human head and arm, similar to the Babylonian god Ea.
No evidence of aquatic humanoids has ever been found. Statue of a sailor mermaid from Portsmouth, Virginia. Mermaids-those half-human, half-fish sirens of the sea — are legendary sea creatures chronicled in maritime cultures since time immemorial. The ancient Greek epic poet Homer wrote of them in The Odyssey
~ Captain Ahab on Mermaid Wenches. Mermaids are super-cool species that is half-fish, half-woman. Males, which are much rarer, are called mermen. They are commonly seen in the sea or, more and more frequently, in fresh water lakes. Some people believe there are two types of mermaid-those with the top half of a woman and the bottom half of a fish, and those with the top half of a fish and the bottom half of a woman. But science has shown the alternate type to be biologically impossible.
Mermen are mythical male equivalents and counterparts of mermaids – legendary creatures who have the form of a male human from the waist up and are fish-like from the waist down, having scaly fish tails in place of legs. A merboy is a young merman. 
Overview-Beings with the upper body of a human and the lower body of a fish. Caesg-A being with an upper body that resembles a human while the lower body resembles a trout. Encantado-A dolphin-like being with the ability to shape shift into human form. Margygr-A monster with the head and torso of a woman and the tail of a fish. (Icelandic). Melusine-A being that resembles a human except has two fish-like tails instead of legs. (European). Merrow-A fish tailed being with green hair that lives in the waters off the coast of Ireland. (German). Nommos-An intelligent amphibious being from a planet circling the star Sirius. Oceanid-A nymph associated with the oceans and other bodies of saltwater. (Greek). Octomaid-A being with an upper body that resembles a human while the lower body resembles an octopus. River-Witch-A mermaid-like being.