Federal jurors are paid $40 a day. Jurors can receive up to $50 a day after serving 45 days on a grand jury. (Employees of the federal government are paid their regular salary in lieu of this fee.) Jurors also are reimbursed for reasonable transportation expenses and parking fees. While the majority of jury trials last less than a week, jurors can receive up to $50 a day after serving 10 days on a trial
Jurors are paid $10 per day. Checks are usually mailed 30 days after the completion of jury service. Call the Jury Assembly Clerk, (206) 684-5688 with questions about checks or further information. Top of FAQ Page ................ 
§§ 51-247 and 51-247a. Paid leave: Full-time employees: regular wages for the first 5 days of jury duty; after 5 days, state pays up to $50 per day. Additional employee protections: Employee who serves eight hours of jury duty may not be required to work that day. 
6 jury fee for the first three days of service. An out-of-stateemployer who employs a New York resident at an out-of-statelocation is not required to pay the jury fee. Who is the “employer” of a temporary worker provided byan agency? Whoever pays a temporary employee is the employer. JURoR pa(What is the jury fee? The jury fee is $40 per day for all New York State Courts andfor Town and Village courts. Every person who serves as a jurorin the New York State Courts or the Town and Village courts isentitled to be paid at least the $40 fee for each day that theyreport in person for jury service.
What if my employer doesn’t want to pay me for the first three days of service? Your employer has a duty under state law (§ 13-71-126, C.R.S.) to pay regular wages up to $50 per day if you are regularly employed. Employers may pay more than $50 by mutual agreement. Who will pay me for serving as a juror? Your employer has a duty under state law (§ 13-71-126, C.R.S.) to pay regular wages up to $50 per day if you are regularly employed. Employers may pay more than $50 by mutual agreement. If you are self-employed, you must compensate yourself for the first three days
If you ARE selected to serve on a jury for a trial, your service is complete at the conclusion of the trial. The average trial lasts for three to five days. Some of the municipal courts and justice of the peace courts use a pooling system. This means you are on call by the court for a period of time (4 to 8 weeks). If you served on a jury panel for a trial, you are exempt from serving for two years. If it has been more than 18 months (or two years) since your last service, you are required to appear for jury service again, regardless of how many times you have served in the past.
If a juror is late the juror will receive a failure to appear summons to appear for jury duty on a different day in 60  90 days. Jurors should plan to arrive in the garage at least 30 minutes prior to check-in time. If you served on a jury panel for a trial, you are exempt from serving for two years. If it has been more than 18 months (or two years) since your last service, you are required to appear for jury service again, regardless of how many times you have served in the past.
Petit Jury. Federal jurors are paid $40 a day. While the majority of jury trials last less than a week, jurors can receive up to $50 a day after serving 10 days on a trial. (Employees of the federal government are paid their regular salary in lieu of this fee.) Jurors also are reimbursed for reasonable transportation expenses and parking fees.
While the majority of states do not mandate paying employees for jury duty, a few states do. In Connecticut, for instance, full-time workers are entitled to regular pay for the first 5 days of jury duty and after the fifth day, the employee can receive up to $50 per day from the state. In Maine, for example, an employer may not intimidate an employee by threatening to take away health insurance coverage and in North Dakota, an employer cannot layoff, penalize, coerce, or dock the pay of an employee because of jury duty service.