1 What to wear if you are attending the wake, the funeral, and graveside service: to the wake you can wear mostly black with a splash of color. 2  Children can usually wear the same thing, but teens and adults should dress differently for both events. 3  Some color is acceptable, such as tones of blue, but avoid flashy colors. 1 For a very conservative service, some women may opt to wear a simpler, formal hat. 2 
If there is ever a time that a man should wear a suit, a funeral is perhaps that time. A funeral is also not an occasion to wear your shirt open and sans tie; sorry Richard. Nor is it a time to wear your ‘nice jeans,’ your favorite t-shirt or that pink tie your girlfriend got you for Valentines day.
When deciding what to wear to a funeral or memorial service, think about what you might wear to a business meeting, a job interview, or church or synagogue. While black clothing is almost always appropriate, clothing of other colors may also be worn. Men should avoid wearing jeans, short-sleeved shirts, athletic shoes, and baseball caps. Appropriate outfits for men to wear to a funeral include a suit with a tie; pants (not jeans) and a collared, button-down shirt with a tie and a belt; dress shoes or loafers (not sneakers).
The neckline of a funeral dress should be higher than you might usually wear for “special occasions”. Uncovered arms are typically only appropriate at a graveside service in very hot and humid locations. Use a bolero jacket, shawl, scarf, or other accessory to cover up the top of a sleeveless dress if you aren’t sure. One of the trickiest pieces of funeral etiquette to navigate is deciding what to wear to a funeral. You might assume that something in your closet is bound to be suitable, only to discover at the last minute that you’re not sure how to put your outfit together.
1 This means a black dress, skirt, leggings, suit, black shirt, black tie, and black socks and shoes. 2  Check with the party beforehand. 3  In some cases, you may be requested to wear light cheerful colors, to a young person's funeral. 1 For a very conservative service, some women may opt to wear a simpler, formal hat. 2  What to wear if you are attending the wake, the funeral, and graveside service: to the wake you can wear mostly black with a splash of color.
Appropriate outfits for women to wear to a funeral include a skirt suit or pantsuit; a skirt of appropriate length (not a mini skirt) or pants (not jeans) and a top with sleeves, a blouse, or a sweater; flats or pumps (not sneakers). In some regions, religions, and cultures, women may wear hats to funerals. Men should avoid wearing jeans, short-sleeved shirts, athletic shoes, and baseball caps. Appropriate outfits for men to wear to a funeral include a suit with a tie; pants (not jeans) and a collared, button-down shirt with a tie and a belt; dress shoes or loafers (not sneakers).
1 However, there are always exceptions to the rules. 2  A blue suit with a black turtleneck, black dress shirt with long red tie, black dress shirt (no tie; first button unbuttoned), or a black T-shirt (clean, kind of silky) could all be acceptable depending on the family. 1 For a very conservative service, some women may opt to wear a simpler, formal hat. 2  What to wear if you are attending the wake, the funeral, and graveside service: to the wake you can wear mostly black with a splash of color.
If you have a black suit, white shirt, and black tie, funeral etiquette dictates that this is what you should wear. Dark charcoal or navy blue are also appropriate suit colors. Pin stripes or other woven designs in the suit fabric should be subdued. One of the trickiest pieces of funeral etiquette to navigate is deciding what to wear to a funeral. You might assume that something in your closet is bound to be suitable, only to discover at the last minute that you’re not sure how to put your outfit together.
At most funerals, men will generally be most comfortable wearing a suit. A black suit is best, but grey or navy blue are also appropriate. You should also wear a collared white shirt and tie. For Women. Most often women will wear a dress or skirt and blouse to a funeral. However, it's also appropriate to wear a suit. The rules for the suit will be similar to those for men (minus the tie, of course). 