Best Answer: I've worked at several offices-and all dentists are different as to what hours they work. One office I worked Mon Tues Wed from 8:30 til 5, half a day Thurs and all day Friday. Another office was 7-3 two days a week and 2-10 (yup, pm) two days a week. Report Abuse. it depends on the office. my mom works as a dental assistant and she has worked a 5 day schedule at one office, some will have 4 days, sometimes she would have half days... so it depends on the hours the office is open, and what days the dentist will be in. Source(s): my moms a dental asst.
1 Time flexibility. 2  As a professional dental assistant, you can look for part-time work as well as traditional full-time positions. 3  Many dental practices offer work schedules that only require you to be on site during mornings, afternoons or on weekends. 4  Evening hours at dental offices are rare. 1 As a professional dental assistant, you can look for part-time work as well as traditional full-time positions. 2  Many dental practices offer work schedules that only require you to be on site during mornings, afternoons or on weekends. 3  Evening hours at dental offices are rare. 4  Job qualifications
The median annual wage for dental assistants was $34,500 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $23,550, and the top 10 percent earned more than $47,580. Most dental assistants work full time. However, about 1 in 3 assistants worked part time in 2012. Some work evenings or weekends, depending on the hours of operation at the office where they work. 
The median annual wage for dental assistants was $34,500 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $23,550, and the top 10 percent earned more than $47,580. Most dental assistants work full time. However, about 1 in 3 assistants worked part time in 2012. Some work evenings or weekends, depending on the hours of operation at the office where they work. 
Ashley Brown, 23, works as a full-time dental assistant at a dental office in Hanover, Penn., where she also lives. Brown graduated in August 2012 with a certificate in dental assisting from YTI Career Institute's Capital Region campus in Mechanicsburg, Penn. 
The Certified Dental Assistant exam is approximately 4 hours long and consists of 320 test questions. On a scale of 100 to 900 available points, test-takers must pass with a score of 400 or better, which they earn by completing 3 test sections: 1  General chair-side test: 120 questions. If you're in a dental assisting role, whether as a hygienist, assistant, or technician, your duties might vary by practice, or even by state.
Learn where a dental assistant can work, including specialized areas. In a dental assisting role, you'll be responsible for things like maintaining patient records, educating patients on basic dental health and resources, and prepping patients for exams and procedures. If you're in a dental assisting role, whether as a hygienist, assistant, or technician, your duties might vary by practice, or even by state.
Flexible Schedule. Although many dental assistants work full-time in private dental practices, over one-third work part-time. Others divide their schedules among more than one dental office. If you are seeking a long-term career with flexible or part-time hours, dental assisting is for you. 