Conformal coatings are materials applied in thin layers (typically a few mils or a fraction of a mm) onto printed circuits or other electronic substrates. They provide environmental and mechanical protection to significantly extend the life of the components and circuitry. They also minimize dendritic growth and the electromigration of metal between conductors. In addition, the use of conformal coatings protects circuits and components from abrasion and solvents. Stress relief is also provided, as well as protection of the insulation resistance of the circuit board.
Another use of conformal coating is to increase the voltage rating of a dense circuit assembly; an insulating coating can withstand a much stronger electric field than air, particularly at high altitude. The selection of conformal coating material is a crucial factor that needs to be considered carefully and in relation to the application method. The wrong selection can not only affect the long term reliability of the circuit board but can cause massive difficulties with both processing and costs.
What is Conformal Coating. Conformal coating material is applied to electronic circuitry to act as protection against moisture, dust, chemicals, and temperature extremes that, if uncoated (non-protected), could result in damage or failure of the electronics to function. High temperature & waterproof PCB coatings. Our conformal coatings protect your electronic printed circuit boards from moisture and contaminants, preventing short circuits and corrosion of conductors and solder joints. They also minimize dendritic growth and the electro-migration of metal between conductors.
Part of the Electronics glossary: Conformal coating is the process of spraying a dielectric material onto a device component to protect it from moisture, fungus, dust, corrosion, abrasion, and other environmental stresses. Common conformal coatings include silicone, acrylic, urethane, epoxy, and Parylene. Parylene is a unique polymer conformal coating that conforms to virtually any shape including crevices, points, sharp edges, and flat, exposed internal surfaces.
In addition, our 5 conformal coatings protect your circuits and components from abrasion and solvents. Stress-relieving is also provided, as well as protection of the insulation resistance of the circuit board. High temperature & waterproof PCB coatings. Our conformal coatings protect your electronic printed circuit boards from moisture and contaminants, preventing short circuits and corrosion of conductors and solder joints. They also minimize dendritic growth and the electro-migration of metal between conductors.
Conformal coatings for printed circuit boards cure tack free in seconds upon exposure to UV/Visible light to help streamline manufacturing assembly processes. Apply, cure, and ship immediately and eliminate the time-consuming steps of traditional thermal-cure and room temperature-cure conformal coatings. 
Conformal coatings can be used in a wide range of environments to protect printed circuit boards from moisture, salt spray, chemicals and temperature extremes in order to prevent such things as corrosion, mould growth and electrical failures. Electrolube is among the world’s foremost experts in the formulation and application of conformal coatings designed to meet international approvals (including European and American military specifications).
PTFE (PolyTetraFluoroEthylene) (also known as Teflon) is a fluorocarbon-based conformal coating. PTFE coatings can provide a low co-efficient of friction or slipperiness, corrosion and chemical resistance, heat resistance, dielectric stability, and chemical inertness to the circuit assembly. Wikipedia definition: Conformal coating material is applied to electronic circuitry to act as protection against moisture, dust, chemicals, and temperature extremes that, if uncoated (non-protected), could result in damage or failure of the electronics to function.
What is Conformal Coating? Wikipedia definition: • Conformal coating material is applied to electronic circuitry to act as protection against moisture, dust, chemicals, and temperature extremes that, if uncoated (non-protected), could result in damage or failure of the electronics to function. 
Conformal coating material is a thin polymeric film which ‘conforms’ to the contours of a printed circuit board to protect the board's components. The selection of conformal coating material is a crucial factor that needs to be considered carefully and in relation to the application method. The wrong selection can not only affect the long term reliability of the circuit board but can cause massive difficulties with both processing and costs.