Montenegro is located in the Balkans or southeastern Europe along the coast of the Adriatic Sea. Montenegro is a country located in Southeastern Europe. It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea to the south and borders Croatia to the west, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the northwest, Serbia to the northeast, Albania to the southeast. Its capital and largest city is Podgorica.
Montenegro is a small country in south eastern Europe. It shares borders with Albania, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Serbia. The capital city is Podgorica. Other important cities are Nikšić, Budva and Bar. Montenegro is Europe's newest country after Kosovo.
Montenegro is a country located in south-eastern Europe. It is bordered by Croatia on the west, Bosnia and Herzegovina on the north-west, Serbia on the north-east and Albania on the south-east. Print. Montenegro, meaning Black Mountain, is a small country in the Balkan Peninsula.
Montenegro is a country located in South-eastern Europe. It covers a total area of 14,026 km². It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea to the south and borders Croatia to the west, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the north-west, Serbia to the north-east, and Albania to the south-east. Its capital and largest city is Podgorica.
Montenegro is located in the Balkan Peninsula along the Adriatic Sea of the Mediterranean. The coastal region of Montenegro is characterized by coastal plains, rising to the mountainous regions inland.
Montenegro is a south European and a Mediterranean country. It is one of the most southern European states and faces the south part of the Adriatic Sea. About 500km from Rome, 1.500 km from Paris, and Berlin, and about 2.000km west from Moscow, Montenegro lies on the Balkan Peninsula in the very heart of Europe.
Montenegro is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Montenegro include Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia. Its biggest cities and towns include Podgorica, Niksic, Pljevlja and Ulcinj.