Wait Time. When pressure washing, saturate the deck with deck detergent, give it 15 minutes to work, then begin power washing. Follow the operating directions for your power washer. After completing the deck power washing, wait 24 to 36 hours before applying sealer. If the weather is cool or humid, wait 48 to 72 hours. The deck must be thoroughly dry to ensure deep penetration of the sealer
Typically oil based finishes dry to the touch within a few hours and can be walked on in 24-48 hours after curing. Latex finishes typically dry within 2-3 hours and need a full 48 hours to cure. You would be amazed at how quickly oil finishes set. Often passing showers do not effect these finishes after application. 
Can you wash and seal a deck in one day?No. We allow at least 24 hours of dry time (Depending on weather conditions) before stain is applied. How Long Does Stain Last?Depending on your deck's exposure to direct sunlight and precipitation elements, we recommend restaining every 2-3 years. 
How long should a deck stain dry before it rains? The stain is solid, water based, BM brand-it says 48 hours to 'hard dry'. Does it need this long? I really want to stain this weekend, and there's a 10% chance of rain Saturday, but 30% change on Sunday night... While oil base stains take longer to dry than latex, they are less affected by rain that comes too soon than latex stains are. Some of the waterborne stains can be affected by a hard rain 24 hrs later. Sometimes you just have to take a chance and hope for the best.
Depends upon how many coats are applied. Usually, the sealer will take approximately 2 hrs to dry, but 8 hrs to cure. By curing, I mean for the sealer to penetrate the surface and not be diluted by any water/rain. If you can apply it early in the AM, it should be cured by evening. rnwallace07 · 7 years ago.
Only apply Deck & Concrete Restore with no rain for a minimum of 48 hours after the first coat. The second coat can be applied as early as 4 to 6 hours after the first coat, but if the area is still wet do not apply until surface is not tacky to the touch. Allow the area to dry for a minimum of 24 hours before walking on the surface and 3-5 days before placing furniture on the area. Do not apply Deck & Concrete Restore if temperatures are below 50 degrees and above 90 degrees either day or night for 72 hours. 1  25. 
Most deck sealers require at least 24 hours of dry weather to cure. If you plan to apply two coats, you must allow 24 hours of drying time pass before you applying the second coat. When pressure washing, saturate the deck with deck detergent, give it 15 minutes to work, then begin power washing. Follow the operating directions for your power washer. After completing the deck power washing, wait 24 to 36 hours before applying sealer. If the weather is cool or humid, wait 48 to 72 hours. The deck must be thoroughly dry to ensure deep penetration of the sealer
As a general rule, 48 hours is sufficient drying time for a newly washed deck. But this also assumes optimal drying conditions, such as a sun-facing deck. If you are on the shadow side of the home where little to no sunlight reaches, wait at least 72 hours before applying any stain or sealer. Give the deck a visual inspection, as the surface should be completely dry and there should be neither any swelling or puffiness to the wood or softness to the surface
How long does it take for the DECK-O-SEAL to cure? For DECK-O-SEAL Two Part, the material is tack free in four hours and cures in 24 hours at 77ºF. For DECK-O-SEAL ONE STEP, the material is tack free in 24 hours and cures in 5 to 10 days. The DECK-O-SEAL didn’t set – it’s still sticky.