(December 2009). Duplex printing is a feature of computer printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) that allows the automatic printing of a sheet of paper on both sides. Print devices without this capability can only print on a single side of paper, sometimes called single-sided printing or simplex printing. Single-sided printers can still print duplex jobs; however, the user has to manually turn the print job over and re-initialize the printing of the document. In that process, it is important to determine which edge and side the printer prints on.
A duplexer is a device that allows use of the single antenna by both transmitter and receiver. In other words duplexer is a device which couples the transmitter and receiver to the antenna while producing isolation between transmitter and receiver. diplexer vs duplexer-difference between diplexer and duplexer. This page diplexer vs duplexer describes difference between diplexer and duplexer and explain basics of diplexer and duplexer in wireless system.The other difference between terms are also provided here. Diplexer separates two different frequency bands in receive path and combines them in transmit path
Often, on MFPs, this is combined with a reversing automatic document feeder (RADF) to allow for duplex scanning also. Higher volume printers may in essence have two print engines in a single device, and are able to print both sides of the paper in a single pass. Single-sided printers can still print duplex jobs; however, the user has to manually turn the print job over and re-initialize the printing of the document. In that process, it is important to determine which edge and side the printer prints on.
Figure 1: simplified functional block diagram of a radar using a duplexer. Whenever a single antenna is used for both transmitting and receiving, as in a radar system, an electronic switch must be used! Switching systems of this type are called duplexers. 
Detailed Product Description. The MFJ-916B duplexer is a series of inductance coils and capacitors that acts as a band-pass filter. Your MFJ duplexer can be used two different ways. The duplexer combines the output of the HF/VHF transceiver and the output of the UHF transceiver so that both transceivers can be connected to the same antenna. 
Most radio repeater systems include a duplexer. Duplexers can be based on frequency (often a waveguide filter), polarization (such as an orthomode transducer), or timing (as is typical in radar). In the simplest arrangement, the switch consists of a gas-discharge tube between the input terminals of the receiver. When the transmitter is active, the resulting high voltage causes the tube to conduct, shorting together the receiver terminals.
In radar, a transmit-receive (TR) switch alternately connects the transmitter and receiver to a shared antenna. In the simplest arrangement, the switch consists of a gas-discharge tube between the input terminals of the receiver. When the transmitter is active, the resulting high voltage causes the tube to conduct, shorting together the receiver terminals.
Duplex printing is a feature of computer printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) that allows the automatic printing of a sheet of paper on both sides. Single-sided printers can still print duplex jobs; however, the user has to manually turn the print job over and re-initialize the printing of the document. In that process, it is important to determine which edge and side the printer prints on.
A duplexer is an electronic device that allows bi-directional (duplex) communication over a single path. In the simplest arrangement, the switch consists of a gas-discharge tube between the input terminals of the receiver. When the transmitter is active, the resulting high voltage causes the tube to conduct, shorting together the receiver terminals.