Sea urchins or urchins (/ˈɜrtʃɪnz/), archaically called sea hedgehogs, are small, spiny, globular animals that, with their close kin, such as sand dollars, constitute the class Echinoidea of the echinoderm phylum. About 950 species of echinoids inhabit all oceans from the intertidal to 5000 m deep. Sea urchins feed mainly on algae, but can also feed on sea cucumbers and a wide range of invertebrates, such as mussels, polychaetes, sponges, brittle stars, and crinoids.
In reality the mouth-apparatus of the urchin is continuous from one end to the other, but to outward appearance it is not so, but looks like a horn lantern with the panes of horn left out.. As other scientists later studied and wrote about the urchin, the term Aristotle's lantern was used. 
The mouth of the sea urchin (known as the Aristotle's lantern), is found in the middle on the underside of the sea urchin's body and has five tooth-like plates for feeding. The anus of the sea urchin is located on the top of the body. As with other echinoderms, sea urchins do not have a brain and instead rely on their water-vascular system which is like a circulatory system and comprises of water-filled channels that run through the body of the sea urchin. The spines of the sea urchin are used for protection, to move about, and to trap food particles that are floating around in the water. Sea urchins have five paired rows of tiny tube feet which are found amongst the spines.
The purple sea urchins are equipped with a test which is made up of calcium carbonate and then covered with skin which protects the sea urchins internal organs. The calcite which is used to keep the plates of the endoskeleton together is rich in magnesium, therefore allowing the endoskeleton to strengthen. The purple sea urchin lives in kelp forests, and has spikes for mobilization and protection from predators. They need protection from predators: spiny lobsters, sheep-head fish and sea otters. The sea urchins mouth is setup underneath its body in order for it to graze along the kelp forests and algae in which it lives.
Sea urchins belong to the phylum Echinodermata--the same group as sea stars, sand dollars, sea lilies and sea cucumbers. Although difficult to see through all the spines, sea urchins also have a hard outer body like that of its relatives. 
The lower half of a sea urchin's body is referred to as the oral surface, because it contains the mouth, while the upper half is the aboral surface. The internal organs are enclosed in a hard shell or  test  composed of fused plates of calcium carbonate covered by a thin dermis and epidermis. Sea urchins feed mainly on algae, but can also feed on sea cucumbers and a wide range of invertebrates, such as mussels, polychaetes, sponges, brittle stars, and crinoids.
Sea urchin has special type of mouth, called Aristotle's lantern. Mouth is equipped with five sharp teeth that are able to drill a hole in the rock. Sea urchins are omnivores (they eat both plants and animals). Sea weed, algae, plankton and decaying organic matter are usually on the menu of sea urchins. 
Sea urchins have a mouth located in the middle of the body, on the bottom. They move over their food (generally algae), and injest it with a small beak like appendage made up … of five hard teeth and a soft tongue. This structure is known as Aristotle's lantern. 6 people found this useful. 
Figure A shows the aboral (opposite of mouth) view of a sea urchin test (shell). The center of the test shows the anus (very center), the 5 gonopores (5 black dots near the points of the pentagon) and madreporite (single oval in top section of pentagon). Sea urchins are unsegmented and penta-radial as adults. From fertilization to just before metamorphosis, the young sea urchin is bisymetrical (as are humans). At metamorphosis, the sea urchin takes on the characteristic five sided penta-radial design.
The shell, or test, of sea urchins is round and spiny, typically from 3 to 10 cm (1.2 to 3.9 in) across. Common colors include black and dull shades of green, olive, brown, purple, blue, and red. Sea urchins move slowly, and feed on mostly algae. Sea otters, starfish, wolf eels, triggerfish, and other predators hunt and feed on sea urchins. Their roe is a delicacy in many cuisines. Sea urchins feed mainly on algae, but can also feed on sea cucumbers and a wide range of invertebrates, such as mussels, polychaetes, sponges, brittle stars, and crinoids.