The Bordetella vaccine is supposed to last up to six months but, according to Animal Planet, is only effective in about 70 percent of pets. Discuss your pet's immunization plan with your veterinarian to determine the best course of care. Like all vaccines, Bordetella works by exposing your pet to a small dose of nonpathogenic bordetella bacteria either by injection or by nose drops. The intranasal vaccine usually contains a modified live parainfluenza virus and a strain of Bordetella that does not cause disease.
Symptoms can appear between two and 14 days after your pet has been exposed to the bacteria. The typical length of infection can be anywhere from four to 21 days. We tell clients that the best bet is to have their dogs or cats vaccinated two days to two weeks in advance.. Like all vaccines, Bordetella works by exposing your pet to a small dose of nonpathogenic bordetella bacteria either by injection or by nose drops. The intranasal vaccine usually contains a modified live parainfluenza virus and a strain of Bordetella that does not cause disease.
Due to the nature of their environment, dog parks, boarding facilities and veterinary offices are likely sources of kennel cough, which is why boarding facilities require dogs and cats to be up-to-date on their Bordetella vaccine prior to lodging. Vaccination is usually recommended for high risk animals every 6 months. Like all vaccines, Bordetella works by exposing your pet to a small dose of nonpathogenic bordetella bacteria either by injection or by nose drops. The intranasal vaccine usually contains a modified live parainfluenza virus and a strain of Bordetella that does not cause disease.
Note: If you decide to give the vaccine, make sure it is the intranasal form, that is, given as nose drops, not injected. And give the vaccine at least 2 weeks before contact with other dogs, for the sake of both your dog and other dogs. 
Note: If you decide to give the vaccine, make sure it is the intranasal form, that is, given as nose drops, not injected. And give the vaccine at least 2 weeks before contact with other dogs, for the sake of both your dog and other dogs. Don’t take my word for any of this. Also, here’s a good article about kennel cough: http://www.dogs4dogs.com/blog/2012/03/21/bordetella-does-your-dog-really-need-the-kennel-cough-vaccine/ If you need more ammunition, let me know. And remember: there are lots of groomers.
It should not be considered a replacement for the injectable form of the vaccine. This vaccine is available only in combination with the intranasal bordetella and parainfluenza vaccines. Vaccine is given in two doses, 2 to 4 weeks apart, in dogs older than 6 weeks. Annual revaccination is recommended. Vaccine is given in two doses, 2 to 4 weeks apart, in dogs older than 12 weeks of age. Revaccination is recommended annually and/or at the beginning of tick season as determined regionally. Vaccine is given in two doses, 2 to 4 weeks apart, in dogs older than 6 weeks. Annual revaccination is recommended. Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease)
Both the intranasal and injectible forms of the kennel cough vaccine are labeled for 1 year. Some vets/trainers/groomers/boarding facilities want it given every 6 months. Unfortunately, if you want to be allowed in a facility where they require vaccination every 6 months, you will have to comply. 2. Duration of immunity. He states that newer challenge studies on the intranasal vaccine have been shown to protect dogs for 12-13 months while the duration of the injectible is unknown (and likely not long given that it is a killed vaccine).
Scout's symptoms are mild and that often is what they see in dogs that get KC after being vaccinated. And immunity for the last half of the 12 month period is very low so that's why some re-vaccinate every 6 months. I had our other dog into the vet today and we had a long talk about KC, bordetella vaccines, and the other vaccinations. It was really interesting. 11-21-2007, 02:09 PM #8. 
1 For adult dogs or puppies older than 16 weeks, the intranasal vaccine can be given once, and the injectable vaccine should be given twice, two to four weeks apart. 1 Puppies can receive the injectable vaccine starting at 6 to 8 weeks of age, followed by a booster between 10 and 12 weeks of age. 2 