Glycolysis is a method by which glycogen is broken down into glucose, also known as 'sugar' and is converted into energy. Glycolysis occurs in muscle cells during anaerobic exercise without the use of oxygen in order to produce energy quickly, thus producing lactic acid, which causes your muscles to fatigue. Lactic acid is a by-product of glycolysis and forms when your body breaks down glucose for energy when oxygen is low.
Examples of Anaerobic Exercise. Examples of anaerobic exercise include heavy weight training, sprinting (running or cycling) and jumping. Basically any exercise that consists of short exertion, high-intensity movement is an anaerobic exercise. Heavy weight training is an excellent way to build strength and muscle mass.
Physical activity that alternates short bursts of energy with periods of rest. exercise at an intensity exceeding aerobic capacity, which therefore draws a significant fraction of its energy from anaerobic sources. Sprints of any form, jumps and forceful throws are examples.
Aerobic means with oxygen, and anaerobic means without oxygen.. Anaerobic exercise is the type where you get out of breath in just a few moments, like when you lift weights for improving strength, when you sprint, or when you climb a long flight of stairs.
Anaerobic exercise consists of brief intense bursts of physical activity, such as weightlifting and sprints, where oxygen demand surpasses oxygen supply. While aerobic exercise relies on oxygen, anaerobic exercise is fueled by energy stored in your muscles through a process called glycolysis.
anaerobic exercise, any short-duration exercise that is powered primarily by metabolic pathways that do not use oxygen. Such pathways produce lactic acid, resulting in metabolic acidosis. Examples of anaerobic exercise include sprinting and weight lifting.
anaerobic exercise. exercise at high work intensity during which the needs of muscle metabolism for oxygen exceeds the capacity of the circulation to supply it and an oxygen debt is incurred. anaerobic infection. one caused by aerobic organisms.