Mao Zedong, 1957 © Mao was a Chinese communist leader and founder of the People's Republic of China. He was responsible for the disastrous policies of the 'Great Leap Forward' and the 'Cultural Revolution'. Mao was born on 26 December 1893 into a peasant family in Shaoshan, in Hunan province, central China. After training as a teacher, he travelled to Beijing where he worked in the University Library
In 1972, Mao welcomed US president Richard Nixon in Beijing, signalling a policy of opening China, which was furthered under Deng Xiaoping 's rule in China. A controversial figure, Mao is regarded as one of the most important individuals in modern world history. During the early 1960s, Mao became concerned with the nature of post-1959 China. He saw that the revolution and Great Leap Forward had replaced the old elite with a new one. He was concerned that those in power were becoming estranged from the people they were supposed to serve.
The Chinese Civil War (simplified Chinese: 国共内战; traditional Chinese: 國共內戰; pinyin: Guo-Guó Gong) gòng neizhan nèizhàn was a Civil war in china fought between forces Loyal (TO)-the kuomintang kmt led Government of The, republic of china and forces Loyal To the Communist (PARTY). of china cpc The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states, the Republic of China (ROC) in Taiwan and the People's Republic of China (PRC) in mainland China, both officially claiming to be the legitimate government of China.
Mao Zedong was born in 1893 and he died in 19 76. Mao Zedong is considered to be the father of Communist China and along side Sun Yat-sen and Chiang Kai-shek played a fundamental part in China’srecent history. Mao. Mao was born in Chaochan in Hunan province. He came from a peasant family. 
Six years later, the Nationalist Party or Kuomintang under Chiang Kai-shek massacred at least 5,000 communists in Shanghai. This was the start of China's Civil War. That fall, Mao led the Autumn Harvest Uprising in Changsha against the Kuomintang (KMT). The KMT crushed Mao's peasant army, killing 90% of them and forcing the survivors out into the countryside, where they rallied more peasants to their cause.
Introduction. Mao Zedong led communist forces in China through a long revolution beginning in 1927 and ruled the nation’s communist government from its establishment in 1949. Along with Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin, Mao is considered one of the most significant communist figures of the Cold War. 
After Mao Zedong won the Chinese civil war in 1949, his goal became the unification of the five nationalities under the big family, the People's Republic of China, and under a single political system, the Communist Party of China. During the early 1960s, Mao became concerned with the nature of post-1959 China. He saw that the revolution and Great Leap Forward had replaced the old elite with a new one. He was concerned that those in power were becoming estranged from the people they were supposed to serve.
Following the rise of Mao Zedong and the establishment of the People s Republic of China in 1949, the Chinese Communist Party very quickly began instituting revolutionary new reforms in the Soviet style to increase the economic effectiveness of the Chinese people. Having gained control of all of China, Mao Zedong and the CCP established a Soviet style governmental structure that gave all power to the CCP itself, the People s Liberation Army, and the bureaucracy.
With charisma, luck and ruthlessness, Mao rose to be the founding leader of a new Communist nation, the People's Republic of China. This timeline highlights the most important events of his lifetime. Photo of a young Mao Zedong. 
With the communists in firm control of the country after decades of competing with the Nationalist Party, Mao Zedong was elected chairman of the People s Republic of China on September 30, 1949. Historical Significance. With Mao Zedong as the leader of communist China, the country was forever changed. 