The rule of thumb is that, given proper surface preparation, for exterior use you can apply quality latex paints over oil-based, but not the reverse. However, if you have many layers of oil based paint, stick to using oil on oil. For interior use, generally you can use one over the other.
Yes, you can use latex paint over oil-based paint. First, scuff down the surface of the oil paint layer for improved stickability. This has less to do with the initial coat being oil-based than the fact that this is a paint-over-paint project.
In effect, the primer will be sandwiched between the latex paint and the oil top coat. When the primer is thoroughly dry, apply a second coat to further isolate the original surface. You want to ensure that all traces of the old latex paint have been completely covered.
Don’t apply oil-based paint over latex; but you can put latex paint over oil-based, as long as you prepare the surface properly first. Start by finding out if the existing paint is oil or latex by rubbing the surface with denatured alcohol on a rag.
It just won’t stick. But you can paint latex over oil-based paint, if you prepare the surface properly. First of all, take a little bit of sandpaper and just lightly sand it. Then you want to use some trisodium phosphate, or TSP, you can find it in any paint store or home center. Then, after that dries, use a good bonding primer.
If you will be painting latex over oil paint, then use the shellac primer or sealer. Shellac can be painted over with either latex or oil-based paint. So, if you want to use acrylic house paint, don't do the shellac primer. For that, take a normal primer-oil-based, if you can get it. An oil based primer is better for acrylics, but they have become hard to get.
You can always paint latex (water based)over an oil based paint as the latex just dries on the surface. However don't paint an oil based over a latex paint. Oil based paints … need to absorb into the wood or other surfaces or it will just dry and flake off.