A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should have a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. Students should earn a passing score in the Pharmacy college admission test and complete two years of their undergraduate program to enroll in a four year pharmacy program. A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should enroll in a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. College students who want begin a four year pharmacy program need to complete two years of undergraduate course work and pass the Pharmacy college admission test (PCAT).
Read more on salaries and benefits here. The median annual salary for a pharmacist was $119,280, or $57.35 per hour, in 2013. The best-paid 10 percent made $147,350, while the lowest-paid made $89,000. The best-compensated pharmacists are employed by merchandise stores. Average Pharmacist Pay vs. Other Best Jobs. Pharmacists have one of the highest average salaries of any of our Best Health Care Jobs, earning $116,500 in 2013.
2. Get a bachelor's degree. You will need to have a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree from a four-year institution to apply to pharmacy school. It is required that you complete at least two years of pre-pharmacy coursework during this time, including anatomy, biology, calculus, chemistry, physics, and sociology. These programs typically take four years to complete. While in pharmacy school, you will study subjects like pharmacology and medical ethics in a classroom setting, and work in hospitals and pharmacies under the supervision of licensed professionals.
What Pharmacists Do. Pharmacists dispense prescription medications to patients and offer expertise in the safe use of prescriptions. They also may provide advice on how to lead a healthy lifestyle, conduct health and wellness screenings, provide immunizations, and oversee the medications given to patients. Most programs require at least 2 years of undergraduate study, although some require a bachelor’s degree. Most programs also require applicants to take the Pharmacy College Admissions Test (PCAT). Pharm.D. programs usually take 4 years to finish, although some programs offer a 3-year option.
A: If you want to be a pharmacist in U.S. you will need to have a doctorate of pharmacy degree. Students who have completed two years of college education and have passed the Pharmacy college admission test can begin their pharmacy program. This program in pharmacy will take 4-7 years to complete. A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should enroll in a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. College students who want begin a four year pharmacy program need to complete two years of undergraduate course work and pass the Pharmacy college admission test (PCAT).
Salary Outlook. The median annual salary for a pharmacist was $119,280, or $57.35 per hour, in 2013. The best-paid 10 percent made $147,350, while the lowest-paid made $89,000. The best-compensated pharmacists are employed by merchandise stores. Average Pharmacist Pay vs. Other Best Jobs. Pharmacists have one of the highest average salaries of any of our Best Health Care Jobs, earning $116,500 in 2013.
What Pharmacists Do. Pharmacists dispense prescription medications to patients and offer expertise in the safe use of prescriptions. They also may provide advice on how to lead a healthy lifestyle, conduct health and wellness screenings, provide immunizations, and oversee the medications given to patients. Most programs also require applicants to take the Pharmacy College Admissions Test (PCAT). Pharm.D. programs usually take 4 years to finish, although some programs offer a 3-year option. Some schools admit high school graduates into a 6-year program.
On average, Pharmacists in the United States earn six-figure salaries ($108K) annually, making for a very well-paid profession. Overall cash earnings for Pharmacists stretch from $84K on the lower end to $133K near the top, and the heftiest packages can encompass around $10K from bonuses and $10K from profit sharing. Pay by Experience Level for Pharmacist. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Experience and pay tend to be weakly linked for Pharmacists — those with more experience do not necessarily bring in higher earnings. Even the relatively untried can take home bulky six-figure salaries; employees who have worked for fewer than five years report earning $108K on average