Saguaro cactus (Cereus giganteus) is the considered the largest cactus indigenous to the United States, although there have been reports of a few larger cacti of the giant cardon variety in Baja, California, Mexico, and Brazil. Saguaro cactus grow slowly and need partial shade to thrive.
The saguaro cactus is a slow growing plant. It can take 10 years for it to grow 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) tall. Sensitive to cold weather, the cactus takes in most of its water during the summer rainy season and can weigh up to 4,800 pounds (2,177.2 kg) when fully hydrated.
The plant is the saguaro cactus from the Sonoran Desert of Arizona. The saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) is a superstar amongst the cactus family both for its storied existence and size. It can reach as much as 45 feet in height though 20 to 30 feet specimens with foot thick trunks are more common.
The saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) is the largest cactus in the United States. Native to the Sonoran Desert in Arizona, the saguaro cactus can grow 50 feet (15.2 m) tall and live for 200 years. The green plants have waxy skin covered with protective spines.
To purchase a large, mature saguaro cactus, consider having a cactus transported to you. Because saguaros can grow up to 50 feet (15.2 m) tall and weigh more than 4,000 pounds (1,814.4 kg), relocating the plant requires the work of a professional and trained team of cactus brokers and transporters. 1  Plan to spend between $500 to $2,500 for a large saguaro cactus.
Saguaro cactus continue growing until they're about 100 years old, reaching a standard height of 20-30 feet, with a few as large as 40-50 feet. The lifespan of this plant is approximately 200 years.
The saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) is one of the defining plants of the Sonoran Desert. These plants are large, tree-like columnar cacti that develop branches (or arms) as they age, although some never grow arms. These arms generally bend upward and can number over 25.
The saguaro is the largest cactus in the United States. Most of the saguaros roots are only 4-6 inches deep and radiate out as far from the plant as it is tall. There is one deep root, or tap root that extends down into the ground more than 2 feet.