Arthur Conan Doyle’s legendary Victorian detective Sherlock Holmes has been transported to 21st century Brooklyn Heights in a new CBS Thursday night drama, “Elementary,” which premieres September 27 during prime time after its hit detective series “Person of Interest.”. While Holmes supposedly lives in his father’s Brooklyn Heights brownstone, the pilot was filmed in Harlem, with interiors shot at a studio in Long Island City.
CBS announces that the Jonny Lee Miller drama will film on-location in London, moving the production out of New York for the first time. Internationally, the show is No. 1 on U.K.'s Sky Living, Australia's Network Ten, among the top five U.S. series in Germany and Italy, and is a top five show on Canada's Global. In March, CBS rewarded Elementary with an early renewal, along with a slew of other shows.
135 pages on this wiki. The Brownstone is a house located in New York City at 42 Stanford Avenue, Brooklyn, New York, 11209. It is owned by Sherlock Holmes' father, and is home to Sherlock and Joan Watson, although Joan is only living there until she can find another suitable apartment. 1 Although the brownstone is in Brooklyn on the show, the outside of the building is shot in Harlem, New York City, with interiors shot at Silvercup Studios in Queens. 2  The roof is a real rooftop in New York City and is located at the corner of 10th St & 44th Av.
April 2nd Filming Locations In New York, Los Angeles, Louisiana And Other Locations Including “Elementary”, “Blue Bloods”, “True Indigo” And “The Last Exorcism 2”. Posted on 01 April 2012 by David. We always need your tips. The more filming locations tips we have, the more information that we can provide. Don’t forget if you visit the locations, you can always email us your set location pictures. New York Filming Locations. 30 Rock is filming at Silvercup Studios in Long Island City. Elementary is filming near 550 155th Street at Broadway, and also near 435 W. 141st in Manhattan.
Watching that should be as much the story of this show as the mysteries that you see week in and week out about who killed who. Elementary is an American crime drama series that presents a contemporary update of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 's character Sherlock Holmes. The series was created by Robert Doherty and stars Jonny Lee Miller as Sherlock Holmes and Lucy Liu as Dr. Joan Watson. Season 1 premiered on CBS in September 2012; Season 2 began airing in September 2013; and Season 3 began airing in October 2014. The series is set and filmed primarily in New York City. The show follows Holmes, a recovering drug addict and former consultant to Scotland Yard, as he assists the New York City Police Department in solving crimes. 
Elementary, CBS’ modern-take on Sherlock Holmes, is filming in the neighborhood today. The show stars Jonny Lee Miller (Homes), Lucy Liu (Watson), Jon Michael Hill, and Aiden Quinn. 
Lucy Liu stars as Watson. While Holmes supposedly lives in his father’s Brooklyn Heights brownstone, the pilot was filmed in Harlem, with interiors shot at a studio in Long Island City. Setting the show in New York seemed like a natural fit also because of the city’s similarities to Lond
CBS’ Elementary, which earned the coveted post-Super Bowl slot earlier this month, has been shooting in New York City for nearly 9 months but on location photos remain a rarity. 
CBS' Elementary is heading to the U.K. The one-hour drama, toplined by Jonny Lee Miller and Lucy Liu as Sherlock Holmes and Joan Watson, will go across the Atlantic to film in London for the second season premiere, The Hollywood Reporter has learned. Internationally, the show is No. 1 on U.K.'s Sky Living, Australia's Network Ten, among the top five U.S. series in Germany and Italy, and is a top five show on Canada's Global. In March, CBS rewarded Elementary with an early renewal, along with a slew of other shows.