The standard normal distribution is the normal distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one (the green curves in the plots to the right). It is often called the bell curve because the graph of its probability density resembles a bell. The probability density function of the normal distribution with mean and variance (equivalently, standard deviation) is an example of a Gaussian function, (See also exponential function and pi. ). If a random variable has this distribution, we write ~ .
Related questions. 1  IQ test scores are normally distributed with a mean of 100. 2  Horse race time is found to be normally distributed with a mean value of 10 minutes and a standard deviation. 3  Truck tire life is normally distributed with a mean of 60,000 miles and a standard deviation of 4,000 miles. 1 Horse race time is found to be normally distributed with a mean value of 10 minutes and a standard deviation. 2  Truck tire life is normally distributed with a mean of 60,000 miles and a standard deviation of 4,000 miles. 3  What is. 4  To qualify for letter sorting, applicants are given a speed-reading test.
The Intelligence Quotient (IQ) test scores are normally distributed with a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. What is the probability that a person would score 130 or more on the test? 1 Horse race time is found to be normally distributed with a mean value of 10 minutes and a standard deviation. 2  Truck tire life is normally distributed with a mean of 60,000 miles and a standard deviation of 4,000 miles. 3  What is. 4  To qualify for letter sorting, applicants are given a speed-reading test.
In probability theory, the normal (or Gaussian) distribution is a very common continuous probability distribution. Normal distributions are important in statistics and are often used in the natural and social sciences to represent real-valued random variables whose distributions are not known. The notion of normal distribution, being one of the most important distributions in probability theory, has been extended far beyond the standard framework of the univariate (that is one-dimensional) case (Case 1). All these extensions are also called normal or Gaussian laws, so a certain ambiguity in names exists.
An intelligence test for which the scores are normally distributed has a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. Use this info to describe how the scores are distributed. Best Answer: The mean is the average intelligence, i.e. there are as many people with an intelligence above 100 as there are with an intelligence below 100 the standard deviation is a measure of how far the population differs.
If and, the distribution is called the standard normal distribution or the unit normal distribution denoted by and a random variable with that distribution is a standard normal deviate. The notion of normal distribution, being one of the most important distributions in probability theory, has been extended far beyond the standard framework of the univariate (that is one-dimensional) case (Case 1). All these extensions are also called normal or Gaussian laws, so a certain ambiguity in names exists.
If the standard deviation is small then the population doesn't vary much, and if the s.d. is large then the population varies a lot. In a normal distribution 34% of people will have a score within one standard deviation, so that means that 34% of the population have a score between 85 and 100. Likewise 34% of the population have a score between 100 and 115. Source(s): Aaron · 3 years ago. Best Answer: The mean is the average intelligence, i.e. there are as many people with an intelligence above 100 as there are with an intelligence below 100 the standard deviation is a measure of how far the population differs.
1 IQ test scores are normally distributed with a mean of 100. 2  Horse race time is found to be normally distributed with a mean value of 10 minutes and a standard deviation. 3  Truck tire life is normally distributed with a mean of 60,000 miles and a standard deviation of 4,000 miles. 4  What is. 1 Horse race time is found to be normally distributed with a mean value of 10 minutes and a standard deviation. 2  Truck tire life is normally distributed with a mean of 60,000 miles and a standard deviation of 4,000 miles. 3  What is. 4  To qualify for letter sorting, applicants are given a speed-reading test.