Her savvy is to be perfect in everything she does, including making perfect mistakes, which was shown when she explained how Mibs' father and her met. *Abram Poppa Beaumont The father of the family, who was hospitalized after being in a 10-car pile-up car crash. He has no savvy because he married into the family but at the end of the book Mibs says his savvy is not giving up on anything or anyone. He has a tattoo of a mermaid from when he was in the army. Supposedly the males in his family all lose their hair before the age of 30.
sav•vy. 1. Also, sav′vi•ness. practical understanding; shrewdness or intelligence; common sense: political savvy. 2. shrewdly informed; experienced and well-informed; canny. 3. to know; understand. savvy. n (= common sense) → Grips m (inf) , → Koepfchen köpfchen (nt) ; (= inf-know) → How koennen, → Können-nt know; how nt’he hasn t got → much savvy er Hat (keine) → ahnung inf Or (keinen) ; dunst inf show a bit!, of savvy use! → your savvy streng Mal dein koepfchen Köpfchen or (deinen). grips an inf
― Jack Sparrow to Gillette. Savvy is a term used as a synonym for wisdom or understanding. It is derived from the Portugese sabe (knows) and the Latin sapere (to be wise). Savviness relates to practical understanding, shrewdness or intelligence. 
Noun. 1. savvy-the cognitive condition of someone who understands; he has virtually no understanding of social cause and effect. discernment, understanding, apprehension. knowing-a clear and certain mental apprehension. savvy. n (= common sense) → Grips m (inf) , → Koepfchen köpfchen (nt) ; (= inf-know) → How koennen, → Können-nt know; how nt’he hasn t got → much savvy er Hat (keine) → ahnung inf Or (keinen) ; dunst inf show a bit!, of savvy use! → your savvy streng Mal dein koepfchen Köpfchen or (deinen). grips an inf
3. shrewdly informed; experienced and well-informed; canny. Savvy is slang derived from the French word savoir, which means to know. It can be used in many ways, to refer to 'intelligence' or specifically to 'street smarts', as in Don't worry about him, he'll be alright, he is pretty savvy. Means, he knows what is going on, or catches on quickly, kind of idea. When it doesn't refer to intelligence, it usually refers to 'understanding'. a savvy is a power that every person gets on their thirteenth birthday. if your younger than thirteen beware of your savvy. sometimes they can be crazy.
When you are savvy you are in the know. You have an understanding of the how and why of a particular situation. The savvy person is well informed and shrewd. This is why the man or woman of style seeks to gain more knowledge and increase his or her intelligence. 1 Etiquette dictates that you have it together and the savvy person will always know what they need and from where or whom. 2  Take stock of your business needs and reach out to the right people. 3  Get a coach. 4  Even powerful business CEO's need mentors and coaches
Her savvy is to be able to read the mind of people when they have ink on their body, such as tattoos (though when temporary tattoos eventually fade, like Bobbi's, it is harder for Mibs to speak to them). *Fish Beaumont The fourteen-year-old brother of Mibs. He has no savvy because he married into the family but at the end of the book Mibs says his savvy is not giving up on anything or anyone. He has a tattoo of a mermaid from when he was in the army. Supposedly the males in his family all lose their hair before the age of 30.
1 Be in the know. 2  Etiquette dictates that you have it together and the savvy person will always know what they need and from where or whom. 3  Take stock of your business needs and reach out to the right people. 4  Get a coach. 1 Etiquette dictates that you have it together and the savvy person will always know what they need and from where or whom. 2  Take stock of your business needs and reach out to the right people. 3  Get a coach. 4  Even powerful business CEO's need mentors and coaches
The noun SAVVY has 1 sense: 1. the cognitive condition of someone who understands. Familiarity information: SAVVY used as a noun is very rare. • SAVVY (verb). The verb SAVVY has 1 sense: 1. get the meaning of something. Familiarity information: SAVVY used as a verb is very rare.