Enchanting is one of the new functions in Minecraft, released with the third version of the 1.9 pre-release. This is a quick illustrated guide to making an enchanting table and enchanting weapons and armor. How To Make A Minecraft Enchanting Table. You will need: 1  Two Diamonds. 2  Four Pieces of Obsidian. 3  A Book. 
To use an enchanted book, the player must place an item in the first slot in an anvil, and a book in the next. In order to complete the enchantment, the player must have the required amount of experience. Note that using an enchanted book gets significant discounts at the anvil. Natural generation [edit | edit source]. Enchanted books can be found in 2.5% of stronghold altar chests, 72.2% of stronghold library chests, 7.2% of dungeon chests, 5.5% of chest minecarts in abandoned mine shafts, 5.4% of desert and jungle temple chests, and 4.0% of stronghold storeroom chests, all in groups of 1.
Enchanting a Book will create an Enchanted Book with a random enchantment stored in it. Books can absorb any enchantment that the Enchantment Table can bestow, but the book itself will not be able to use the enchantment (ie: Sharpness, Knockback). 
You can enchant with an enchanting table and some bookshelves, but not vice versa. Villagers (the priest mainly) will enchant your item for a fee of some emeralds as said in the Minecraft Combat Book (Since enchanting is not available, priests will not be able to do this in Minecraft PE. They can only do this in the Full Version). To craft the table, you need 2 diamonds, 4 obsidian, and a book:
1 Or trade with a librarian for an enchanted book. 2  Additionally, you can enchant the book yourself, by putting a regular book in an enchantment table with 1 - 3 pieces of lapis lazuli. Enchanted books can be found in many places. They are found in almost any naturally spawning chests, and can be traded for with a librarian villager. When you find an enchanted book, you can use it to enchant an item as long as you have an anvil and enough experience points.
Enchanted Books. Instead of enchanting an item, you can enchant a book instead. This is a way of saving an enchantment for later. The enchantment can later be applied to an item using an Anvil. This is really useful if you really want to make a particular item. Enchanting in Minecraft. Enchanting is a way to make magic armor, weapons or tools. To enchant an item you need to get Experience Levels from doing all sorts of things such as trading, fighting monsters, farming, mining and smelting ore. When you want to enchant your item, you will need to build an Enchantment Table.
Enchantment Table. Enchanting through an Enchantment Table requires a specific number of Experience Levels and Lapis Lazuli in order to be executed. Once the required tool/armor is placed, the player may select from a choice of 3 enchantments, each requiring different amount of levels and lapis lazuli. Enchanting through Anvils requires an enchanted book and the item that is to be enchanted. Once both are added, the Player can choose to enchant the item. Once done, the item will
Combining Enchantments. Once an item is enchanted, it can’t be further enchanted using an Enchanting Table. However, you can combine two enchanted items, or add a second enchantment from an enchanted book, using an Anvil. You can also combine the enchantments from two books together into a new double-enchanted book. Enchanting in Minecraft. Enchanting is a way to make magic armor, weapons or tools. To enchant an item you need to get Experience Levels from doing all sorts of things such as trading, fighting monsters, farming, mining and smelting ore. When you want to enchant your item, you will need to build an Enchantment Table.
Enchanting is an in-game mechanic that was added in Update 0.12.1. It allows the player to enchant (give special abilities to) weapons, tools and armor. Enchanting is possible either by an Enchantment Table, or by an Anvil. Enchanting through Anvils requires an enchanted book and the item that is to be enchanted. Once both are added, the Player can choose to enchant the item. Once done, the item will be enchanted.