This lesson will cover the basic but important structural components and sites of an antibody as well as their function. This includes heavy chains, light chains, variable domains, constant domains, paratopes, and epitopes. This means that when a white blood cell, called a plasma cell, produces an antibody for a specific pathogen, it will alter the variable region such that the antibody will be able to attach to a very specific pathogen, but not another.
Antibody Structure. Antibodies are little glycoprotein molecules that are the major components of the humoral immune system. They aren't just little globs of nothing, however. They are highly specialized structures created to go after very specific invaders in your body. This means that when a white blood cell, called a plasma cell, produces an antibody for a specific pathogen, it will alter the variable region such that the antibody will be able to attach to a very specific pathogen, but not another.
Making monoclonal antibodies. An important advance in the use of antibodies was the recognition that it was possible to produce a monoclonal population of antibodies. This is a procedure that is in many ways analogous to isolating a cDNA from a cDNA library. Anti-idiotype antibodies, which are antibodies against the binding domain of another antibody, can sometimes be used to mimic the structure of the original antigen. Antibody Specificity. perhaps most importantly, it is important to consider the question of antibody specificity and reactivity.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies. So antibodies are one of two classes of immunoglobulins.
Antibodies are a very important part of our blood. They are very important to the immune systems of humans and animals (vertebrates). This post will tell you exactly what antibodies are. Antibodies identify dangerous ‘foreign objects’ in the blood, such as bacterial and viruses. There are many different antibodies and they all have different structures. Each different type of antibody recognizes certain bacteria
Antibodies in Research. Antibodies are proteins made by B cells, part of the body's immune system. The normal function of antibodies is to latch onto foreign substances (antigens) and flag them for destruction, thus helping to fight infection. Antibodies have become one of the most important tools for studying protein function in cells. To see how antibodies are used, consider the challenge of determining where actin is located in a nerve cell.
Antibodies are large proteins produced by vertebrates that play important roles in identifying and eliminating foreign objects. The basic structural unit is composed of two heavy chains and two light chains, as shown in this diagram. Antibodies bind other molecules known as antigens. 
Antibodies are just proteins, but they have a very important function. Antibodies identify dangerous ‘foreign objects’ in the blood, such as bacterial and viruses. There are many different antibodies and they all have different structures. Each different type of antibody recognizes certain bacteria and viruses.
Antibody tests are done to find certain antibodies that attack red blood cells. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system. Normally, antibodies bind to foreign substances, such as bacteria and viruses, and cause them to be destroyed. The following conditions cause antibodies to be made. Two blood tests can check for antibodies that attack red blood cells: the direct Coombs test and the indirect Coombs test. The direct Coombs test is done on a sample of red blood cells from the body. It detects antibodies that are already attached to