Men spend an average of 15 minutes per day on this, while women do roughly half that. [ ALSO: 5 Takeaways From the Latest Census Data ]. Women also spend nearly twice as much time caring for other household members, like children, than men do. ...At the Office, That Is. While men spend more time at work, women by far perform more duties around the house. On an average day, women do three times as much housework as men do and more than twice the amount of food preparation and cleaning. Men do lead women in one area of home improvement: lawn and garden care.
Work time — paid at a job and unpaid at home — is almost equal for American men and women, says a report out today that shows men clocking in at 45.6 hours a week and women at 45.2. And for parents with kids under 18 living at home, the hours are also lopsided. The average hours spent a week at a paying job declined from 42 hours in 1965 to 37 hours in 2011 for fathers, and increased from eight hours to 21 hours for mothers.
Watch retailer Timex surveyed more than 1,000 people on their fitness habits. They found that at least 73 percent of Americans report working out one or more times per week. Twenty-nine percent spend between 30 minutes and an hour working out, whereas 18 percent spend between one and two hours a day exercising. 
Men spend an extra four minutes a day eating and drinking, an extra 10 minutes exercising and eight more minutes mowing the lawn. On an average day 83 percent of women and 65 percent of men spend some time doing household activities. On the days that they work, employed men toil 47 minutes more than employed women. Television accounts for the largest share of Americans' leisure time. How Americans spend their days. SLEEPING accounts for more than a third of the average American's day. According to the Bureau of Labour Statistics' latest time use survey, women get 11 minutes more kip a night than men do, and spend 29 more minutes cooking and clearing up.
Below, a rundown of some of the fascinating differences of how Americans of different genders spend their time. Men Work More Than Women Do. Men work longer hours than women do, and by a long shot: on days that they work, men work just over eight hours per day on average, nearly a full hour longer than women did. However, these figures are not that surprising, given that women are less likely than men to work full-time. ...At the Office, That Is. While men spend more time at work, women by far perform more duties around the house. On an average day, women do three times as much housework as men do and more than twice the amount of food preparation and cleaning. Men do lead women in one area of home improvement: lawn and garden care.
These individuals spent an average of 8.7 hours working or in work-related activities, 7.7 hours sleeping, 2.5 hours doing leisure and sports activities, and 1.3 hours caring for others, including children. The following charts provide a snapshot of how people use their time. 1 Time spent in primary activities and the percent of married mothers and fathers who did the activities on an average day by employment status and age of youngest own household child, average for the combined years 2009-13 (HTML) (PDF) 2007-11 (HTML) (PDF) (XLS) and 2005-09 (HTML) (PDF) (XLS). 2  Table A-7.
But it's not 50-50 in terms of work on the job and at home. Men spend about 10 hours a week more than women in paid work, and women spend about six hours more in household work and an additional three hours more in child care, says the analysis, by the Pew Research Center. And for parents with kids under 18 living at home, the hours are also lopsided. The average hours spent a week at a paying job declined from 42 hours in 1965 to 37 hours in 2011 for fathers, and increased from eight hours to 21 hours for mothers.
In 2011, mothers spent, on average, 21 hours per week on paid work, up from eight hours in 1965. Over the same period, the total amount of time mothers spend in non-paid work has gone down somewhat. For their part, fathers now spend more time engaged in housework and child care than they did half a century ago. 