You may need one, two, three or all quadrants cleaned scaled and planed. Local anesthetic is usually given since the procedure can be painful. Fortunately, the cost of deep cleaning is per quadrant, so you only pay for what you need done. The average costs of deep cleaning is between $100-to-$400 per quadrant. This means that if you are getting all four areas scaled and planed, it can cost you as little as $400 or as much as $1,600
1 The total cost for an appointment with these additional services can be $100-$300 or more, depending on local rates and the number and type of X-rays. 2  For example, CostHelper readers report paying $114-$320 for a complete teeth cleaning appointment, with an average cost of $198. 1 Dental insurance typically covers 100% of the cost of a teeth cleaning once or twice a year as necessary preventive care, but not more often -- and some plans may have a maximum amount they will pay for a cleaning, which can be less than what the dentist charges.
1 At TheWealthyDentist.com, a deep periodontal cleaning costs about $225 per quadrant. 2  Some hygienists include laser in the scaling fee, but charge $120 to patients who need to return for additional laser service. 3  Lissauer Dental in Boynton Beach, Florida, offers deep cleaning services cost in the range of $200 to $400. 1 Due to the latter’s specialization, his deep cleaning service can cost more than a general dentist’s. 2  For example, some dentists charge about $160 for periodontal cleaning, while some periodontists charge $265.
Stop early stages of gum disease with a deep cleaning. sxc.hu. Deep cleaning is actually called scaling and root planing and is done to treat the early stages of gum disease, which are infections in the gums and the bones that hold your teeth in place. If you do not have insurance or if your insurance does not cover this procedure, you will have to pay the fee out of pocket. Local anesthetic is usually given since the procedure can be painful. Fortunately, the cost of deep cleaning is per quadrant, so you only pay for what you need done. The average costs of deep cleaning is between $100-to-$400 per quadrant.
1 On average, the cost is $246 per quadrant. 2  The mouth is divided into four quadrants: upper right, upper left, lower right and lower left. 3  At TheWealthyDentist.com, a deep periodontal cleaning costs about $225 per quadrant. 1 Due to the latter’s specialization, his deep cleaning service can cost more than a general dentist’s. 2  For example, some dentists charge about $160 for periodontal cleaning, while some periodontists charge $265.
Gum disease treatment costs may be as little as $500, or as much as $10,000, depending on the severity of the disease. The cost for a regular dental prophylaxis averages between $30 and $75, while the average cost for periodontal scaling and root planing is between $140 and $210. The Cost of Gum Disease Treatment. The cost of gum disease treatment depends on several factors. For example, additional routine tooth cleaning or scaling and root planing procedures at the gingivitis stage may be required in order to help prevent the onset of gum disease.
1 A standard teeth cleaning by a dental hygienist can cost $75-$200, depending on the dentist's office and local rates. 2  CostHelper readers report paying $80-$175, or an average cost of $127 for just a routine cleaning. 3  Frequently a teeth cleaning appointment will also include dental X-rays and an exam by the dentist. 1 Dental insurance typically covers 100% of the cost of a teeth cleaning once or twice a year as necessary preventive care, but not more often -- and some plans may have a maximum amount they will pay for a cleaning, which can be less than what the dentist charges.
1 According to Brighter.com, which helps people find trusted dentists and the lowest prices on dental care, the deep cleaning method is usually charged by the quadrant and depends on the number of affected teeth. 2  On average, the cost is $246 per quadrant. 1 Due to the latter’s specialization, his deep cleaning service can cost more than a general dentist’s. 2  For example, some dentists charge about $160 for periodontal cleaning, while some periodontists charge $265.
Scaling and Root Planing Costs. A regular dental prophylaxis (professional teeth cleaning) averages between $30 and $75, (check all fees  in general these may be low) while the cost of periodontal scaling and root planing averages between $140 and $210. With periodontal diseases, the sulcus widens, creating a deeper pocket of more than 3 mm, resulting in harmful plaque buildup that cannot be cleaned without professional dental treatment. Scaling and root planing is performed when pockets are greater than 3 mm.
1 Lissauer Dental in Boynton Beach, Florida, offers deep cleaning services cost in the range of $200 to $400. 2  Getting all four quadrants cleaned will cost $800 to $1,600, depending on the periodontist. 1 Due to the latter’s specialization, his deep cleaning service can cost more than a general dentist’s. 2  For example, some dentists charge about $160 for periodontal cleaning, while some periodontists charge $265.