Osteoporosis is a condition characterized by the gradual loss of the normal density of bone. This condition causes bones to become porous, which in turn becomes weak and brittle increasing the risk of fractures. 
Osteoporosis is a bone condition characterized by decreased bone mass and the subsequent deterioration of bone tissue. Often called the silent disease, this progressive condition causes bones to become more porous, thin and brittle, thus more susceptible to fracture. Men, women and in rare cases even children can develop osteoporosis; however, the condition is most prevalent in older adults. An estimated 44% of Americans over age 50 – some 44 million people – have been diagnosed with the condition or identified at increased risk for osteoporosis due to low bone mass.
Osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a condition characterized by weak, brittle bones, which dramatically increases a person’s risk for broken bones—mainly in the hips, wrists and spine. Approximately 52 million Americans have osteoporosis and low bone density (osteopenia). Because it has very few, if any, symptoms, Osteoporosis is considered a “silent disease.” Those who do exhibit symptoms may have noticed a loss of height or severe back pain. In addition, people with bone loss can easily fracture bones from a low-impact fall (from a standing position or less).
1 Osteoporosis is a condition of fragile bone with an increased susceptibility to fracture. 2  Osteoporosis weakens bone and increases risk of bones breaking. 3  Bone mass (bone density) decreases after 35 years of age, and bone loss occurs more rapidly in women after menopause. This disorder of the skeleton weakens the bone and results in frequent fractures (breaks) in the bones. Osteopenia is a condition of bone that is slightly less dense than normal bone but not to the degree of bone in osteoporosis.
Osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome is a rare condition characterized by severe thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) and eye abnormalities that lead to vision loss. In people with this condition, osteoporosis is usually recognized in early childhood. 
Osteopenia is a bone condition characterized by a decreased density of bone, which leads to bone weakening and an increased risk of breaking a bone (fracture). The difference between osteopenia and osteoporosis is that in osteopenia the bone loss is not as severe as in osteoporosis. That means someone with osteopenia is more likely to fracture a bone than someone with a normal bone density but is less likely to fracture a bone than someone with
Osteoporosis Overview. Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by low bone mass and loss of bone tissue that may lead to weak and fragile bones. If you have osteoporosis, you have an increased risk for fractured bones (broken bones), particularly in the hip, spine, and wrist. Osteoporosis is often considered to be a condition that frail elderly women develop. However, the damage from osteoporosis begins much earlier in life.
Osteopenia is defined as a condition of decreased bone density caused by a greater bone resorption than bone creation (see the eMedTV article Bone) . Osteopenia is considered a milder form of bone loss that does not meet the criteria of osteoporosis. 
Osteoporosis facts. 1  Osteoporosis is a condition of fragile bone with an increased susceptibility to fracture. 2  Osteoporosis weakens bone and increases risk of bones breaking. 3  Bone mass (bone density) decreases after 35 years of age, and bone loss occurs more rapidly in women after menopause. This disorder of the skeleton weakens the bone and results in frequent fractures (breaks) in the bones. Osteopenia is a condition of bone that is slightly less dense than normal bone but not to the degree of bone in osteoporosis.
Osteoporosis, or porous bone, is a disease characterized by low bone mass and structural deterioration of bone tissue, leading to bone fragility and an increased risk of fractures of the hip, spine, and wrist. Men as well as women are affected by osteoporosis, a disease that can be prevented and treated. 1 Characterized by an irrational fear of weight gain, this eating disorder increases your risk for osteoporosis. 2  Calcium and vitamin D intake. 3  A lifetime diet low in calcium and vitamin D makes you more prone to bone loss.