The Greeks (Greek: έλληνες) have been identified by many ethnonyms. The most common native ethnonym is Hellen (ἕλλην), pl.  Hellenes  (ἕλληνες); the name Greeks (Latin :  Graeci ) was used by the Ancient Romans and gradually entered the European languages through its use in Latin. The Persians used the name Yaunas (Yunans) after the Ionians, a Greek tribe who occupied some areas on the coasts of western Asia Minor and the term was used later in Hebrew (Yevanim, Hebrew: יוונים ‎), Arabic, and also by the Turks.
The Latin alphabet is derived from the Etruscan and Greek alphabets. Latin was originally spoken in Latium, Italy. Through the power of the Roman Republic, it became the dominant language, initially in Italy and subsequently throughout the Roman Empire. A regular Latin noun belongs to one of five main declensions, a group of nouns with similar inflected forms. The declensions are identified by the genitive singular form of the noun. The first declension, with a predominant ending letter of a, is signified by the genitive singular ending of-ae.
Greek was indeed spoken in a great area, but was replaced (unlike Latin) by other languages such as Arabic, which was closer to the native tongue of the former Greek speakers in those areas. There are still a lot of dialect differences in what is called Greek; there always has been. Note for instance that Modern Greek is diglossic, and comes in two varieties: Demotic and Katharevousa. The Wikipedia article covers the history of Koine and other ancient dialects. – jlawler Nov 26 '14 at 16:58.
Latin (/ˈlaetɨn/ ; ˈlætɨn: latin lingua, [latīna ˈlɪŋɡʷa]) laˈtiːna is a classical language belonging to The italic branch of The-Indo european. Languages The latin alphabet is derived from The etruscan And greek. alphabets A regular Latin noun belongs to one of five main declensions, a group of nouns with similar inflected forms. The declensions are identified by the genitive singular form of the noun. The first declension, with a predominant ending letter of a, is signified by the genitive singular ending of-ae.
Indo-European Languages. The first systematic theory of the relationships between human languages began when Sir William Jones, Oriental Jones, proposed in 1786 that Greek and Latin, the classical languages of Europe, and Sanskrit [Saskr.sãskr, ], ta the classical language Of, india had all descended from a common. source On the other hand, father in Hebrew is, abh, âbh and In arabic, is, ab which hardly seem like any of the -- others they Are semitic. Languages, similarly daughter In (english with its mysterious) gh compares To tochter In, , german thugater Thugátêr, in, greek and Dokhtar. In persian latin uses a. different root
Nevertheless, a large percentage of modern English vocabulary comes from classical Latin and Greek--which accounts for the common misperception that Latin and Greek are somehow earlier versions of English. Today's page will attempt to account for the Latin and Greek elements of English. There is no sense in which you can trace English back to either Latin or Greek; genealogically, these two languages are like very distant great-great aunts or uncle
As the title of this page suggests, English does not descend from either Latin or Greek. There is no sense in which you can trace English back to either Latin or Greek; genealogically, these two languages are like very distant great-great aunts or uncles of English.
Very few people there spoke Latin (see below); Jesus and most Jews of the time and place spoke Aramaic, a language unrelated to Latin or Greek. Yet educated, literate people in Palestine communicated internationally with other educated, literate people in Koine Greek. There is no sense in which you can trace English back to either Latin or Greek; genealogically, these two languages are like very distant great-great aunts or uncles of English.
The basic reason for the many Latin and Greek words in modern English is that in their own time, the classical versions of these languages were, like English today, international languages with a dominant effect on the educational systems and culture of the rest of their world. There is no sense in which you can trace English back to either Latin or Greek; genealogically, these two languages are like very distant great-great aunts or uncles of English.
The main reason that there are not many Greek-deriving languages is political. Greek was spoken mostly in the eastern part of Mediterranean sea, Balkans, Anatolia (now Turkey), now Syria, Jordan, Israel, Egypt etc even in some parts of Italy where there is still a small bilingual community in south Italy. There are still a lot of dialect differences in what is called Greek; there always has been. Note for instance that Modern Greek is diglossic, and comes in two varieties: Demotic and Katharevousa. The Wikipedia article covers the history of Koine and other ancient dialects. – jlawler Nov 26 '14 at 16:58.