Walden University is a fully online institution accredited by the Higher Learning Commission's North Central Association offering programs in a variety of disciplines and degree levels, from undergraduate to doctorate.
Applying. When applying to Walden University, it's important to note the application deadline is rolling. It has an an acceptance rate of 98 percent. For more information about the tests, essays, interviews and admissions process, visit the Applying to College knowledge center.
Walden University offers frequent start dates so that you can begin your program when it’s most convenient for you. For information about start dates for your degree program of interest, complete the information request form and a Walden University enrollment advisor will contact you.
The following information is based off of data for students who were Full Time Undergraduate Degree Seekers. Out of the 8,696 undergraduate students at Walden University, this group of 887 represents about 10%.
The university's mission of creating a positive impact in the lives of others fuels the passion of Walden faculty, graduates, and students and advances the outstanding work they do.
For more information, visit www.WaldenU.edu. Walden University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission and a member of the North Central Association, www.ncahlc.org. Walden focuses on the professional needs of adult learners by offering programs that explore real-world issues, with courses designed by subject matter experts.
For more information about Walden's tuition and expenses, please visit the Walden University page in the Colleges Tuition topic.
Walden University is an open admission policy institution. Open admission colleges typically have few admission thresholds and will admit all applicants so long as certain minimum requirements are met. New admission is often granted continually throughout the year. Please consult Walden University directly to learn the specifics of its open admission policy.