Soil, Sun and Shade. Lilacs do best in full sun and often take up quite a bit of space, so give them plenty of room. A reasonably fertile, well-drained garden loam with a neutral or slightly alkaline pH is ideal, though they'll generally do well anywhere except acidic soils or very heavy clay. Lilacs will drown in standing water.
1 Follow manufacturer's application instructions and reapply every 3 to 5 years. 2  Lilacs prefer a neutral to slightly acidic pH of 5 to 7. 3  If you're planting more than one lilac bush, space the holes you dig 5–15 feet (1.5–4.6 m) apart, depending on what variety you're planting. Some plants, such as Palibin' and Superba lilacs, grow into 5 to 6 - foot bushes. Others, such as Syringa reticulata, become 20 to 30 - foot trees. 1  You can purchase bare-root or container-grown plants from a local nursery or mail order plant supply company.
Lilacs grow best in full sun and well-drained soil. Lilacs grown in partial sun or shade will not flower well. The shrubs may take three to four years to establish themselves in a new site, but once established they can live for centuries. Soil pH (alkalinity or acidity of the soil) may affect the plant’s growth. Lilacs do well in a slightly acid to alkaline soil.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Lilacs are old-fashioned garden shrubs most appreciated for their spectacular fragrant flowers. Many species and countless cultivars offer different sizes -- from 6-foot dwarf shrubs to 30-foot trees -- as well as flower colors, fragrances and bloom times. According to Ron Smith of North Dakota State University Extension, it takes two to three years before a young lilac produces its first blooms. Lilacs do best in full sun and often take up quite a bit of space, so give them plenty of room. A reasonably fertile, well-drained garden loam with a neutral or slightly alkaline pH is ideal, though they'll generally do well anywhere except acidic soils or very heavy clay. Lilacs will drown in standing water.
To prolong their presence in your yard, grow a variety of Lilacs, including, early, mid and late variety bushes. With variety and luck, you will have Lilacs in blooming in your yard for up to six weeks. Weather has a lot to do with how long your blooms last. There are over 1,000 varieties of Lilacs. They come in several colors, with the most popular being the color lilac and purple. White and pink are also popular. They also vary widely in size from the small 4 to 8 foot varieties to types that can grow up to 30 feet.
On average, it takes one week for common purple lilacs to go from first bloom to full bloom, but the timing will vary with the location and the weather. This lilac is a long-lived shrub, often living up to 50 years. Shrub stems can grow from 5 cm – 30 cm (2 – 12 in.) in length, per year. 1 This species of lilac produces suckers – new shoots that sprout from the base of the shrub, or from the roots. 2  Without regular pruning, yearly growth of suckers will make the shrub very dense. 3  Flowers: The flowers grow in clusters 10 cm – 20 cm (4 – 8 in.) long. 4  Flower colour varies from pale purple to medium purple.
Choose lilac bushes to plant. Visit a nursery to pick out a variety of lilac to grow. In addition to color, pay attention to the full-grown height of the plant. Some plants, such as Palibin' and Superba lilacs, grow into 5 to 6 - foot bushes. Others, such as Syringa reticulata, become 20 to 30 - foot trees. 1  You can purchase bare-root or container-grown plants from a local nursery or mail order plant supply company.
Lilacs need at least six hours of sun a day to bloom. Just as a child needs to develop muscles, bones and nerves before he can walk or run, a lilac (Syringa spp.) needs a strong structure of branches and foliage to support the hard work of producing its fragrant panicles of purple or white flowers. Finally, the maturity of individual lilac branches is important. Lilacs bloom on year-old shoots on 2- to 3-year-old branches. Prune them only in the late spring after they flower. This year's new shoots provide next year's blooms. If a branch is cut off at the base, new wood that comes up from the base of the plant must mature before it can send out flowering shoots. 1  Dig Thi