BIOTA's source literally never sees the light of day. Buried beneath rock formations located above Ouray, Colorado at an altitude of 9,010 feet, the underground spring is protected from the elements and human contact. BIOTA is the acronym for: Blame It On The Altitude(r). BIOTA Rocky Mountain Spring water comes from one of the highest natural alpine springs in the world, high above Ouray, Colorado. Everything and anything people do in the mountains often gets 'blamed on the altitude.
The Burgess Shale Formation is a fossiliferous deposit exposed in the Canadian Rockies of British Columbia, Canada. The biota of the Burgess Shale appears to be typical of Middle Cambrian deposits. Although the hard-part bearing organisms make up as little as 14% of the community, these same organisms are found in similar proportions in other Cambrian localities.
Aquaculture Products. Aquaculture projects tend to focus solely on high value carnivorous species, which require high protein in order to grow, often making it inefficient and unsustainable. At Biota we are researching fish that require low protein, and have both market value and an efficient life cycle. Education and Awareness. We open our door to the public on a daily basis to demonstrate our aquaculture, how it is done and why it is important for the conservation of the marine environment. Visitors are able to see our broodstock, holding tanks and the fish we have cultured so far.
The Burgess Shale was discovered by palaeontologist Charles Walcott on 30 August 1909, towards the end of the season's fieldwork. He returned in 1910 with his sons, daughter, and wife, establishing a quarry on the flanks of Fossil Ridge. The significance of soft-bodied preservation, and the range of organisms he recognised as new to science, led him to return to the quarry almost every year until 1924. The biota of the Burgess Shale appears to be typical of Middle Cambrian deposits. Although the hard-part bearing organisms make up as little as 14% of the community, these same organisms are found in similar proportions in other Cambrian localities.
Welcome. Biota Research and Consulting, Inc. (Biota) is an environmental consulting firm specializing in research, assessment, and enhancement of fish and wildlife habitat throughout the Inter-mountain West.
The planned completion date slipped as the Silvertown Quays development struggled to secure funding. In June 2008, Building magazine announced that the aquarium was under review because of the credit crunch, citing the global financial crisis as the reason for the lack of progress on the project. Biota! would have formed one of the main public attractions of the 60-acre (24 ha), £1.5 billion development, along with Silvertown Venture Xtreme, an extreme sports and surf centre.
Biota! was a proposed aquarium in the Silvertown Quays redevelopment, on the site of Millennium Mills adjacent to the Royal Victoria Dock, part of the wider Thames Gateway regeneration project for East London. Biota! would have formed one of the main public attractions of the 60-acre (24 ha), £1.5 billion development, along with Silvertown Venture Xtreme, an extreme sports and surf centre.
Biota is a multi-species fish hatchery located at Airai, Palau. We produce ornamental live fish and invertebrates for the international aquarium industry, as well as some food fish species for local restocking. We also provide services in environmental consulting, commercial diving, public aquariums…. This forward thinking and “no take” foresight of the Palauan people have allowed the Bumpheads to rebound in good numbers. Due to the sustainable numbers of the Bumpheads in Palau, Biota Aquaculture, located and operating in Palau, has been able to collect fertilized egg samples from spawning aggregations.