Emilia has its origins in the Latin language. It is used largely in English, Hungarian, Italian, Finnish, German, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Scandinavian, and Spanish. It is derived from the word aemulus which is of the meaning 'imitating, rivaling'. An old form of the name is Aemilia (Latin). Emilia is popular as a baby girl name, and it is also regarded as trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 1980s. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.063% of baby girls were named Emilia.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Emilia. Emilia is the Italian and Spanish form of Emily, which is derived from the Latin name “Aemilia”, a female version of the Old Roman family name, “Aemilius” (probably from the Latin “aemulus” meaning ‘rival’).
Origin of the name Emilia: Feminine form of Emil, derived from the Latin Aemilius, an old Roman family name probably derived from aemulus (rival, trying to equal or excel, emulating) There are some who thing Emilio is of Germanic origin and derive it from the element amal (work). Facebook Twitter Google+ Email. Feminine form of Emil, derived from the Latin Aemilius, an old Roman family name probably derived from aemulus (rival, trying to equal or excel, emulating) There are some who thing Emilio is of Germanic origin and derive it from the element amal (work).
The name Emilia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Emilia is: Flattering. Latin Meaning: The name Emilia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Emilia is: Industrious; striving. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Emilia is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Emilia is: The Winter's Tale' A lady attending on the Queen. 'The Tragedy of Othello, Moor of Venice' Wife to Iago, and lady-in-waiting to Desdemona.
Emilia /emil-ia/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Emilia is rival; laborious; eager. From the Roman clan name Aemilius. See Amelia. Kreatif forms: Emicia, Emiliaeu, Euemilia. Emilia is a very prominent first name for women (#773 out of 4276, Top 18%) but an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Emilia for girls. Emilia reached its apex position of #164 in the U.S. in 2014. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014)
View the Emilia Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Emilia has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Emilia to other names. Emilia is a variant spelling of Emily. Emily is derived from Aemilia, the Latin feminine form of the Roman family name Aemilius. The name Aemilius was in turn derived from the Latin word aemulus meaning rival. Emilia has the diminutives (nicknames) Emmie, Emmy. 
Emilia, the lovely feminine form of the Roman clan name Aemilius, is rising as an Emily / Amelia alternative, now at Number 164. Its one problem is that it sounds like and is often seen as interchangeable with Amelia, which has a different root and meaning. 
Notes: Emilia is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Emilia is to strive, to excel, or to rival. Emilia originally comes from the name Aemilia. Common variations of the name include Amelia, Emelia, Emily, Amilya, Emiliana, and Amilia. Common nicknames include Emma, Em, Emmy, Mia, Millie, and Mellie. 