The average incubation period for Chlamydia is 1 to 5 days. If you get tested before this time has elapsed, it is recommended that you test again to confirm your results once the incubation period has passed. If you tested negative, get retested frequently if you have unprotected oral sex or come in contact with Herpes 1 fluids like saliva or semen. Genital Herpes (HSV-2/Herpes II). 4-6 Weeks. Even if you tested negative for Genital Herpes, it is advised to retest after 3 months to confirm the initial results.
How long does it take to get STD test results? We get all STD testing results back to you in 24 to 72 hours. How much does STD testing cost? Testing fees are based on laboratory fees that fluctuate regularly also testing fees depend on which test or group of tests you need to have run. For bacterial STDs like Chlamydia and Gonorrhea the window period is approximately 3 days from exposure minimum. For type specific STDs like HIV 1/2, Herpes 1/2, Hepatitis B/C and Syphilis the window period is approximately 2 week
Some HIV tests can get you the results in minutes. Other diseases, like Chlamydia, Herpes, and Syphilis take days to weeks longer … for the result to be available depending on the source of the specimen submitted for testing. Generally, plan on waiting two-three weeks for negative results. How long it takes depends on where you got tested, what tests were done, and the day of the week. For fastest service, find a provider that does a large volume of tests, has an electronic interface with the lab, and provides a patient portal for quick patient viewing of reviewed results. Test Site.
A STD infection may become transmissible because of the delay that often occurs between getting infected and getting the test done. It usually takes about 48 hours to get the results of a STD test. Some tests like the one for syphilis takes about seven to 10 days. HIV test results can be obtained within three days. Chlamydia and gonorrhea test results take about a week. Tests done to check HIV infection can also provide information regarding the presence of some other STDs in the body. A urine and blood sample is usually taken during STD check-up. 
1 Results of chlamydia and gonorrhea swabs will be available in 24-48 hours, although the results may take longer to travel from the lab to the medical office. 2  In the unlikely event that a gonorrhea or chlamydia culture will done, the specimen will need a few days in the lab before results can be reported. How long it takes depends on where you got tested, what tests were done, and the day of the week. For fastest service, find a provider that does a large volume of tests, has an electronic interface with the lab, and provides a patient portal for quick patient viewing of reviewed results. Test Site.
We are a same-day STD testing provider. We can get you in to one of our local testing centers within 15 minutes, just call 1-866-898-2889 for assistance. For bacterial STDs like Chlamydia and Gonorrhea the window period is approximately 3 days from exposure minimum. For type specific STDs like HIV 1/2, Herpes 1/2, Hepatitis B/C and Syphilis the window period is approximately 2 week
The average incubation period for Syphilis is 3 to 6 weeks. If you get tested before this time has elapsed, it is recommended that you test again to confirm your results once the incubation period has passed. If you tested negative, get retested frequently if you have unprotected oral sex or come in contact with Herpes 1 fluids like saliva or semen. Genital Herpes (HSV-2/Herpes II). 4-6 Weeks. Even if you tested negative for Genital Herpes, it is advised to retest after 3 months to confirm the initial results.
HIV tests can take anywhere from 20 minutes to 2 weeks to get results back. However, with HIV, there is a window period (period of time that you may be infected, but not test positive for the antibodies), so you may need to be retested depending on how long ago your possible exposure was. 2 to 3 weeks, its either a uran test, blood test, or a swab taking for your private. and when they test i think they test for every std you can get, hiv is an std so theyll let you know. cali_guy5592000 · 7 years ago.
In summary, these are usually available within two days of the test taken. Hepatitis tests generally take three days to arrive, and herpes cultures come back about four days after the test. HIV results are available to the patient within 25 minutes of taking the test. How long it takes depends on where you got tested, what tests were done, and the day of the week. For fastest service, find a provider that does a large volume of tests, has an electronic interface with the lab, and provides a patient portal for quick patient viewing of reviewed results. Test Site.
Most everything else involves a swab. Your provider will usually contact you within 2 weeks with your results and generally 1 week if you have an abnormal pap smear or you test positive for an STD. You can be contacted by phone or by postal mail-it all depends on the clinic and how they do business