A beadlock or bead lock is a mechanical device that secures the bead of a tire to the wheel of a vehicle. Dodge Military trucks had the first beadlocks, called Combat Wheels; The 'combat wheels' were a divided-rim, that used a bolted-on retaining ring replacing the normal split ring wheels. They were designed for quick and easy tire replacement during combat, hence the name.
Trail Ready HD Series Beadlocks are popular with desert racers and rock crawlers alike because of their strong one piece aluminum shells and multiple beadlock ring options. They come in 15, 17 and 20 sizes and have several wheel and ring finishes available. Made in the USA. Raceline Monster Series Beadlock wheels are designed and built specifically for off-road desert racing and competition rock crawling. They are available in both lightweight cast aluminum and high strength race-spec forged aluminum models in 15 and 17 sizes.
This is the 15 inch rim with the outer bead ring trimmed and the inner beadlock rim installed, welded and ground. Here's a picture of the anti-coning rings (ACRs) installed on the inner rings, ready to be cleaned and painted. One of the rims complete with a fresh coat of Krylon. 
Beadlock wheels are fairly distinctive, as they resemble a standard wheel with a raised steel or polished edge all along the rim which overlaps some of the rubber on the tire. This edge or lip will feature many bolts or rivets. An example of a simple beadlock rim. In both cases, beadlock wheels mechanically lock the tire bead to the rim, taking air pressure out of the equation and helping to ensure that the tire remains firmly in place no matter how wild maneuvers might get out on the trail or the strip.
ADDITION: We neglected to mention some of the other disadvantages to beadlock wheels in this article. Unlike a normal wheel, installing a tire on a beadlock wheel is a time consuming process. Each and every bolt on the beadlock must be carefully tightened in a specific pattern. In both cases, beadlock wheels mechanically lock the tire bead to the rim, taking air pressure out of the equation and helping to ensure that the tire remains firmly in place no matter how wild maneuvers might get out on the trail or the strip.
A standard beadlock is designed to clamp the tire bead between an outer and an inner ring. The inner ring may be welded onto a standard wheel increasing wheel width by anywhere from 1½ to 2 inches or may be formed as part of the wheel when the wheel is made in the factory. Dodge Military trucks had the first beadlocks, called Combat Wheels; The 'combat wheels' were a divided-rim, that used a bolted-on retaining ring replacing the normal split ring wheels. They were designed for quick and easy tire replacement during combat, hence the name.
The 35-bolt beadlock ring is manufactured from ¾-inch billet 6061 T6 aluminum and features a vertical ribbing on the underside to help keep the tire from slipping under extreme conditions. The Enduro is available as a 17-inch machined wheel with a machined-finish beadlock ring in five-, six-and eight-lug applications. For those who go off-road frequently, there is no replacement for a beadlock system or wheel. These products literally clamp the tire bead in place so it simply cannot pop off, no matter how low you air your tires down. Some beadlocks are considered DOT-compliant (street legal) and others are for off-road use only.
However, beadlock wheels are actually a specially designed safety device that is designed to protect drivers from having the bead of their tires separate from their rims while driving. In both cases, beadlock wheels mechanically lock the tire bead to the rim, taking air pressure out of the equation and helping to ensure that the tire remains firmly in place no matter how wild maneuvers might get out on the trail or the strip.
Tires and wheels are designed so that, when the tire is inflated, the tire pressure pushes the bead of the tire against the inside of the wheel rim so that the tire stays on the wheel and the two rotate together. Dodge Military trucks had the first beadlocks, called Combat Wheels; The 'combat wheels' were a divided-rim, that used a bolted-on retaining ring replacing the normal split ring wheels. They were designed for quick and easy tire replacement during combat, hence the name.
Marsh Racing Wheels Steel Beadlocks are custom built to order with your choice of wheel size, width, bolt pattern, backspacing, beadlock ring style, and wheel finish. Heavy duty shells and thick center plates make these the toughest beadlocks on the planet. Made in the USA. Raceline Monster Series Beadlock wheels are designed and built specifically for off-road desert racing and competition rock crawling. They are available in both lightweight cast aluminum and high strength race-spec forged aluminum models in 15 and 17 sizes.