Discover sold house prices with PrimeLocation. Find out what is going on with house prices in your local area by seeing the house price paid for millions of UK homes. We list millions of property transactions dating back to 1995 from all across the UK. Stay informed on local house prices and recent property sales. Register for monthly PrimeLocation newsletter. 
1 properties have been marked as sold within the last 6 months. 2  listings have been recently built or are still in the building process. 3  listings include Short Sale, Foreclosed and Bank Owned properties. 4  property listings are provided by Multiple Listing Services (MLS). About this data: 1  Listing data is updated every 15 minutes. 2  New listings are added to site within the last 2 weeks. 3  Sold listings have been
The list provides three samples of recently sold homes and properties. Please click on the property report to view the sale date and the sale price. Non-registered users have limited users have limited access to the website. We encourage you to create a free basic account. Do a comparables search on your target home that queries recently sold homes in your area. Comparables or simply 'comps' is considered the best tool to estimate home values and is widely used by real estate professionals, including appraisers, lenders and brokers.
Specifically, I was able to pull up the sold date and price of every house that is currently on the market in my area within the last 10 or so years. Unlike zillow, this site does not create a zestimate.. You can extrapolate value, however, by comparing recent sold prices in your area. 
About this data: 1  Property counts are updated every 3 hours. 2  properties have been marked as sold within the last 6 months. 3  listings have been recently built or are still in the building process. 4  listings include Short Sale, Foreclosed and Bank Owned properties. About this data: 1  Listing data is updated every 15 minutes. 2  New listings are added to site within the last 2 weeks. 3  Sold listings have been
2. Click on the “Recently Sold” link at the bottom of the search tool area on the Zillow.com homepage. This takes you to the first page of listings. The page also features many ways to refine your search by geographic area, price range, lot size, square footage and sale date. The database, though, is limited to the last 36 months of home sales. If you cannot find the home’s sale price on Zillow.com, proceed to Step 3. 4. Ask a real estate agent. Real estate agents have quick access to information on all homes that are listed on the MLS. This is a national registry of homes being offered for sale. The registry provides information on the selling price in addition to the original asking price for the home and other details.
1 Property counts are updated every 3 hours. 2  properties have been marked as sold within the last 6 months. 3  listings have been recently built or are still in the building process. 4  listings include Short Sale, Foreclosed and Bank Owned properties. 5  property listings are provided by Multiple Listing Services (MLS). About this data: 1  Listing data is updated every 15 minutes. 2  New listings are added to site within the last 2 weeks. 3  Sold listings have been
If you are looking to sell your property, then knowing the recently sold house prices in your street and the wider area can give you a strong indication of the current state of the local market and how in demand homes in the area are. 
The deed for the home must be recorded when the home is sold. The deeds are filed according to the address of the property, and they are also often searchable by the name of the property owner. In Los Angeles County, you can pay a small fee to receive copies of deed records by mail. 4. Ask a real estate agent. Real estate agents have quick access to information on all homes that are listed on the MLS. This is a national registry of homes being offered for sale. The registry provides information on the selling price in addition to the original asking price for the home and other details.