Rabbit Calicivirus Disease (RCD), also known as Viral Hemorrhagic Disease (VHD) of rabbits, is considered to have first appeared in China in 1984 and is now endemic in much of the world including most of Europe and countries in Asia and Africa. The first reported occurrence of Rabbit Calicivirus Disease in the US was confirmed on April 7, 2000. The disease occurred in a backyard rabbitry of 27 pet rabbits in west central Iowa. The origin of the outbreak is unknown. The value of the rabbit industry in the US is estimated at $25 million a year.
Rabbit calicivirus and vaccination Rabbit calicivirus disease (RCD), also known as haemorrhagic viral disease (RHVD), is a disease that kills rabbits. It was illegally introduced into New Zealand in 1997. Thirty to eighty percent of animals exposed to the virus will develop the disease. Almost 100% of infected animals will die.
Also known as Rabbit Viral Hemorrhagic Disease (RVHD), Rabbit Calicivirus Disease (RCD), Viral Hemorrhagic Fever, or Viral Necrotizing Hepatitis, RHD is a devastating viral disease that will quickly kill 90% or more of your rabbit herd. 
Biosecurity Tasmania uses rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus, also known as rabbit calicivirus, to undertake localised rabbit control where rabbit numbers are causing significant environmental impacts and the use of other control methods by landowners is not suitable. 
Rabbit calicivirus disease is highly infectious in European rabbits (Oryctolagus), but cottontail rabbits and jackrabbits are not susceptible. Humans and other mammals are not affected. The calicivirus is highly contagious and can be transmitted by direct contact with infected rabbits or indirectly by fomites. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rabbit Calicivirus. Rabbit haemorrhagic disease (RHD), also known as rabbit calicivirus disease (RCD) or viral haemorrhagic disease (VHD), is a highly infectious and often fatal disease that affects wild and domestic rabbits of the species Oryctolagus cuniculus. The infectious agent responsible for the disease is rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV), or rabbit calicivirus (RCV), genus Lagovirus of the family Caliciviridae. The virus infects only rabbits, and has been used in some countries to control rabbit population
Rabbit Calicivirus Disease was a new name deliberately given to viral hemorrhagic disease of rabbits (VHD) by Australian scientists to be less emotive. [Refer BRS Report, August 1996, Rabbit Calicivirus Disease Bureau of Resource Sciences, Australia]. 
Calicivirus Disease. Rabbit Calicivirus Disease (RCD), also known as viral hemorrhagic disease (VHD) of rabbits, is thought to have first appeared in China in 1984 and is now present in much of the world. Rabbits of the genus Oryctolagus are susceptible, which includes most show, pet, and laboratory rabbits. The virus is hardy and disease can be transmitted by contact with infected rabbits or their excreta, rabbit products (meat, skins, offal), insects (mechanical transmission), rodents, and contaminated objects, such as cages, feeders, and clothing.