Parelli Natural Horsemanship (also known as Parelli or PNH) is a program of natural horsemanship, created by Pat Parelli. Parelli supporters argue that this criticism is due to the boldness of his demonstrations with some of his own horses, and possibly in part to the fact that he charges a premium price for his materials.
Learn how horse trainer Pat Parelli teaches his horse to respect a request by using Natural horse training methods. For more information on Parelli Natural Horsemanship, please visit the Parelli website at this link: http://ow.ly/2ugmX. 
Parelli Professionals & Star Ratings. Parelli Professionals are talented, dedicated individuals who, after extensive time studying Parelli Natural Horsemanship (PNH) as a student, have been licensed to teach and/or provide horse development training in the field. There are currently two certifications available for Parelli Professionals, as a Licensed Instructor and as a Licensed Horse Development Specialist. A Parelli Professional is a dedicated and educated horseman, trained to teach students in the Parelli Program.
Parelli is A Natural Approach to Horse TrainingYou know you are doing Parelli when...1 You put the relationship first2 You are playing with your horse in 4 savvys3 You seek never ending self improvement. About Parelli. 
Pat & Linda Parelli's natural horsemanship method uses these Seven Games as a foundation for the rest of the program. These games are based on the games that horses play with each other. The first three games, the principle games, focus on establishing trust and acceptance in your horse. For detailed examples of the Seven Games from Pat Parelli himself, go to www.ParelliConnect.com, For the purpose of this article, all Seven Games take place on the ground with your horse On Line.
Natural Horsemanship is a philosophy of working with horses based on the horse’s natural instincts and methods of communication, with the understanding that horses do not learn through fear or pain, but rather from pressure and the release of pressure. 1 Most natural horsemanship practitioners agree that teaching through pain and fear do not result in the type of relationship that benefits both horse and handler. 2  The object is for the horse to be calm and feel safe throughout the training process.
Parelli Through The Years. For more than 30 years, the Parelli Program has helped hundreds of thousands of students and horses around the world. This beautiful video compiles incredible Parelli footage from across the years, illustrating the beauty and grace of the horses and the inspiring power of the Parelli Program
PNH is an acronym for Parelli Natural Horsemanship. PNH was created by a master horseman, Mr. Pat Parelli. Pat Parelli is internationally renowned as one of the world’s most provocative, most talked about, most respected teachers of Natural Horsemanship. His teaching style is magnetic, motivational and effective.
How it began... The Parelli program of natural horsemanship was founded in 1981 by lifelong horseman Pat Parelli. A former rodeo bronc rider, horse trainer and all-around horse lover, Pat created the program based on his keen observation of horse behavior, psychology and communication. For more than 30 years, the Parelli Program has helped hundreds of thousands of students and horses around the world. This beautiful video compiles incredible Parelli footage from across the years, illustrating the beauty and grace of the horses and the inspiring power of the Parelli Program