Cipro is the brand name of a drug called ciprofloxacin that belongs to a class of drugs known as fluoroquinolones. It is used to treat a wide variety of infections including urinary tract infections and some infections that affect the upper respiratory tract. slide 1 of 4. 
How Cipro Works. Cipro is an antibiotic that happens to be effective against anthrax bacteria, as well as many other types of bacteria. For example, it will kill E. coli bacteria. It is helpful in treating bacterial infections that cause everything from bronchitis to gonorrhea. 
Cipro ® (ciprofloxacin) is a prescription antibiotic medication used to treat a variety of infections. It belongs to a group of medications called fluoroquinolones, or quinolones for short. Cipro is available as a tablet, an oral liquid suspension, and an intravenous (IV) solution. 
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. 
CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Cipro ® (ciprofloxacin) is commonly prescribed to treat several types of bacterial infections. It is typically taken twice daily and is available as a tablet, an oral liquid suspension, and an intravenous (IV) solution. 
Ciprofloxacin is used to treat a wide variety of infections, including infections of bones and joints, endocarditis, gastroenteritis, malignant otitis externa, respiratory tract infections, cellulitis, urinary tract infections, prostatitis, anthrax, and chancroid. Common side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and rash. Ciprofloxacin increases the risk of tendon rupture and worsening muscle weakness in people with the neurological disorder myasthenia gravis.
Besifloxacin ophthalmic is used to treat bacterial conjunctivitis (pinkeye; infection of the membrane that covers the ... If the tip does touch another surface, bacteria may get into the eye drops ... Using eye drops that are contaminated with bacteria may cause serious damage to the eye ... The choice of antibiotic depends on the type of bacteria that is believed ... Common names include: Ciprofloxacin (Cipro); Levofloxacin (Levaquin); Gemifloxacin (Factive); Gatifloxacin (Tequin); Moxifloxacin (Avelox). ...
Ciprofloxacin is a prescription antibiotic that belongs to a group of drugs called fluoroquinolones, or just quinolones for short. It is available in several different forms and strengths, and is used to treat a variety of infections. This type of ear infection is sometimes called swimmer's ear.. Ciprofloxacin ophthalmic (eye) ointment is approved to treat bacterial conjunctivitis (commonly called  pink eye ). The ophthalmic drops are used to treat bacterial conjunctivitis and corneal ulcers. Not all ciprofloxacin products are approved to treat all of the infections listed here. Also, ciprofloxacin is used for treating infections only when they are caused by certain types of bacteria. Although this drug is considered a broad spectrum antibiotic, which means it is effective against many different types of bacteria, not all bacteria will respond to it
Answer by Cjonb. Confidence votes 24.6K. Ciprofloxacin, most commonly marketed as Cipro, is a broad spectrum antibiotic (antibacterial), effective against a wide range of both Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria. An antibiotic Big Gun, it's showing its age as newer antibiotics are coming into the limelight. Still, Cipro is reliable and effective. 