Answer   Salary depends on the job in question and how skilled you are at that job. I'd ask around people who have already been hired-check a couple companies-discret … ely, of course, since many companies don't want their employees to discuss their salary range. In this example the d's would mean dollars and the c's would mean cents. The potential employer want their applicants to put down how much the desired salary is in the format … of ddddcc. For example you could fill out this question like so: Desired Salary (ddddcc) $1199.99 per month.
Drop-Down Selection. Do your research before you select a desired salary figure from an online application that gives you limited salary choices in a drop-down box. Check out the salaries for the job you want using the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' occupational and salary information for your geographic area. When Asked What Is Your Desired Salary on a Job Application What Should I Put? Don't pigeon-hole yourself into a salary that's lower than what you deserve.
For example, you could write, Based on my salary research for this position, I selected a figure from the drop-down menu in the application process that reflects the market rate for this geographic area, which appears to be in the $50,000 to $60,000 range. When Asked What Is Your Desired Salary on a Job Application What Should I Put? Don't pigeon-hole yourself into a salary that's lower than what you deserve.
If you as a candidate are NOT asked about your desired salary in the first interview, buyer beware. The last thing I want to do as a recruiter is put a candidate through an interview loop of 5 interviewers and not have any insight into the candidates desired salary. This isn’t just a rookie mistake, it is inconsiderate. Even if the salary is posted in the job ad, I am going to confirm the desired salary so I can look the VP in the eye, look at my notes, and then look the VP in the eye and report that expectations are in line.
If you are asked what salary you are looking for, answer with the range of salary or total compensation that you have been interviewing for…Do not start with, “I want…” or “I am looking for…” Answer with, “I am interviewing for positions in the ____ to ____ range.” Answering in this manner does two things. 
In this case, indicate that you'd like to negotiate a starting salary slightly above midpoint. If you're forced to make a drop-down menu selection, choose a range that encompasses what you believe is the salary range for the job you want. When Asked What Is Your Desired Salary on a Job Application What Should I Put? Don't pigeon-hole yourself into a salary that's lower than what you deserve.
PM Images/ Iconica/ Getty Images. Definition: Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed. Salary is paid, most frequently, in a bi-weekly paycheck to an exempt or professional employee. In most years, an employee's salary is paid in 26 even paychecks over the course of the year. 
Desired salary is the salary that you would like to make if you are hired for the position. Some believe it is best to write open to negotiation because if your desired salary is too high you might not be considered for the position and if it is too low then you had a chance to make more money. In this example the d's would mean dollars and the c's would mean cents. The potential employer want their applicants to put down how much the desired salary is in the format … of ddddcc. For example you could fill out this question like so: Desired Salary (ddddcc) $1199.99 per month.
The job I've applied for requires a significantly higher level of expertise, which is consistent with my skill set and experience. Therefore, my desired salary is in the range of $58,000 to $67,000.. When Asked What Is Your Desired Salary on a Job Application What Should I Put? Don't pigeon-hole yourself into a salary that's lower than what you deserve.