Multi-Family Homes. The VA loan can be used to purchase up to a 4-unit house so long as it is owner occupied. These homes are also known as multi-family dwellings, and can be referred to as 2, 3, or 4 family houses. These homes are typically separated units with each functioning as a separate apartment.
Absolutely. You would need the standard down payment of at least 3.5% down. The rent from the property can be used to help qualify your income. The 3.5% down can be paid by the seller or as a gift from your family..... so you can potentially come to closing with no money out of pocket.
Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. Financing a multifamily home is not much different than financing a single-family property. The guidelines that underwriters follow to qualify a borrower and make a loan decision may vary slightly, but the process is similar to any other single-family mortgage loan.
One type of loan that you can get from the FHA is a 203b loan. This is one of the primary loan programs that is offered by the FHA. With this particular program, you can buy a single-unit residential home. You also can buy properties that have anywhere from one to four units.
Tips. 1  You can obtain an FHA loan for the purchase of a multi-family unit, single-family residence, manufactured home, and/or some health-related facilities. 2  Restrictions vary by location, so ask your FHA-approved lender for additional information.
Yes, I just had a client buy a 3 family in Lynn using an FHA loan. You need to speak to a Mortgage Professional that knows the FHA Guidelines. You can get a free copy of my FHA Loan Requirement Guide here http://massrealestatehunter.gotothiswebpage.com/beverly-real. 0 votes • Thank • Flag • Link • Tue Apr 24, 2012.
In 2008 I used my VA loan to purchase a 3-family home in Massachusetts with 2 out of the 3 units rented out at $1,250 per unit for a total of $2,500 per month that I was collecting in rent. I moved into the 3rd unit and my monthly principle & interest, taxes, and insurance payment to the bank was approximately $2,700.