After surgery, a catheter (thin, flexible tube) is inserted through the penis and into the bladder. It remains in place for about a day to help urine drain while the prostate heals. You can usually leave the hospital after 1 to 2 days and return to normal activities in 1 to 2 weeks. After the surgery, while you are still under anesthesia, a catheter (thin, flexible tube) will be put in your penis to help drain your bladder. The catheter usually stays in place for 1 to 2 weeks while you heal. You will be able to urinate on your own after the catheter is removed. You will probably stay in the hospital for a few days after the surgery, and your activities will be limited for about 3 to 5
Urine Catheter. When you leave the hospital, you will still have the urinary catheter in place. The catheter will remain for approximately six to nine days after the operation. The catheter will be attached to a leg bag that you can hide under your trousers. 
A Johns Hopkins Medicine answered. You can expect to have a urinary catheter (Foley) draining your bladder (which is placed in the operating room under anesthesia) for approximately 1-2 weeks after the surgery. It is not uncommon to have blood-tinged urine for a few days to a week after your surgery. 
Answer: You definitely need a catheter after prostate surgery, especially radical prostatectomy because once the prostate is removed the connection between the bladder and the urethra is made via suture and for it to heal a catheter is left in for urine to drain. 
After the surgery, while you are still under anesthesia, a catheter will be put in your penis to help drain your bladder. The catheter usually stays in place for 1 to 2 weeks while you are healing. You will be able to urinate on your own after the catheter is removed. You will probably stay in the hospital for a few days after the surgery, and your activities will be limited for about 3 to 5 weeks. After the surgery, while you are still under anesthesia, a catheter (thin, flexible tube) will be put in your penis to help drain your bladder. The catheter usually stays in place for 1 to 2 weeks while you heal. You will be able to urinate on your own after the catheter is removed.
1 Patients can generally be discharged from the hospital about 24 hours after surgery. 2  All patients will be discharged from the hospital with a urinary catheter in place. 3  This catheter is known as a Foley catheter and is held in place by a balloon inside the bladder. Activity. 1  Please refrain from driving for 1 week after your surgery. 2  After one week, you can resume driving and most activities. 3  Refrain from vigorous activity (running, golf, exercising, horseback riding, motorcycles, bicycling however, for six weeks after surgery to give yourself time to heal.
Catheter. When you wake up after surgery you will have a urinary catheter. This is a tube inserted through your urethra into your bladder to drain urine. The catheter will be connected to a bag that is taped to your leg. A prostatectomy is major surgery from which your body needs time to recover. Your doctor will discuss the details of your recovery with you. Typically patients stay in the hospital overnight after surgery and then need to recuperate at home for one to two weeks before returning to work.
Activity after robotic prostatectomy. 1  After one week once the catheter is out, you can resume driving and most activities. 2  Refrain from vigorous activity (running, golf, exercising, horseback riding, motorcycles, bicycling) however, for six weeks after surgery to give yourself time to heal. So stay positive, you can get through this. 1  Patients can generally be discharged from the hospital about 24 hours after surgery. 2  All patients will go home from the hospital with a urinary catheter in place. 3  Since you will not be cleared to drive yourself, you will need someone to drive you home.
Men undergoing prostatectomy for prostate cancer face a recovery period that is somewhat different from other surgeries. Unlike other surgeries, a radical prostatectomy requires a patient to wear a urinary catheter for 1-2 weeks after surgery. This catheter is a narrow rubber hose that transports urine from the bladder, through the penis, and out to a bag outside of the body. As you can imagine, this catheter takes some getting used to. For men undergoing open or traditional prostatectomy, the catheter time is usually 10-14 days. In contrast, those men undergoing robotic prostatectomy usually only have to wear a catheter for 5-7 days. This disparity has to do with the different ways the anastomosis is created in the two