Ocean City, Maryland did not become the East Coast’s premier vacation resort by accident. Its breathtaking beach and busy Boardwalk are major factors, but they are far from the only things to do in Ocean City that attract visitors from all over the world. If you’re bringing the whole family to Ocean City, be sure to check out the plethora of free and kids activities, headlined by the free events hosted by the town each week in season (such as movies and concerts on the beach, light shows along the Boardwalk, beach olympics, fireworks, and Sundaes in the Park.
Welcome to the Holiday Inn® Ocean City MD Hotel This hotel is located directly on the beach in Ocean City, Maryland. Lodging here means being close to the ocean as well a more... Ocean City, Maryland offers entertainment for everyone. Whether it's strolling along our world-famous Boardwalk, riding a thrilling roller coaster, hanging out at the bar, or relaxing pool-side, we have the accommodations.
Here are our thoughts on the top 10 things to do in Ocean City, Maryland when your daily beach activities need a different approach. Note that our Top-10 list is not intended to be in any particular order. We all seem to have different interests in things to do while on vacation. The Ocean City Life-Saving Museum is on the Boardwalk at the Inlet takes you back to the old days of life saving in Ocean City by featuring amazing saves and notable guards, but that's not all.
Whether you’re looking to beat the heat or celebrate the summer sun, Maryland has got the attractions for you! Read More. Sail on the Chesapeake Bay, build sandcastles in Ocean City, ride the roller coasters at Six Flags America, and get into a mountain of steamed crabs—that’s just the beginnings of summer in Maryland! 
Ocean City has spas that can help you accomplish this, such as A Perfect Face Day Spa in West Ocean City and the Creative Day Spa on 137th Street, to name two. So go out with the girls to get your hair done and treat yourselves to a pedicure and manicure. Whether it is a little rain shower or days of downpour, there is always something to do in Ocean City that will ensure you have a good time. Here's another tip, these activities are also great in the winter when it is just too cold to go outside, even if the sun is shining.
Discover Castle in the Sand Hotel, a unique beach vacation resort in Ocean City, Maryland. Make The Castle your beach destination, your playground at the beach, a true resort for fun and relaxation. The Castle in the Sand Hotel is one of the only hotels in Ocean City, MD with food and beverage service on the beach. Keep your feet in the sand and a drink in your hand! Coconuts' beach waitresses will serve you lunch and drinks on the beach directly in front of the Castle.
4) Go back in time. Explore Ocean City, Maryland's colorful history at the Life-Saving Station Museum, or take a walking tour of our historic downtown area. 5) Check out Assateague's wild ponies. The famous ponies are just nine miles from Ocean City, along with nature trails, deer, foxes and thousands of birds. 9) Fore! Ocean City is home to some of the most scenic and challenging golf courses in the Mid-Atlantic region. Or if miniature golf is more your speed, you will find a number of fun courses in town. 10) Plan your return trip to Ocean City ASAP. There's so much to do, you'll never fit it all into one visit.
Top 10+ things you should do when you get to OC. 1) Hit the boardwalk. At just under three miles, the Ocean City, Maryland boardwalk is a perfect family bike ride, an invigorating walk or run, or a relaxing tram ride. At night, the boardwalk comes to life with rides, arcades, performers and so much more. 2) Indulge in our culinary delights. 9) Fore! Ocean City is home to some of the most scenic and challenging golf courses in the Mid-Atlantic region. Or if miniature golf is more your speed, you will find a number of fun courses in town. 10) Plan your return trip to Ocean City ASAP. There's so much to do, you'll never fit it all into one visit.
50 Things To Do. Whether you're planning a weekend getaway or a family-fun vacation, here's a list of Top 50 fun things to do in Ocean City, Maryland this summer. You might also be interested in:
If you’re looking for things to do in Ocean City, you’ve come to the right place. Use the links below to narrow your search and learn more about Ocean City amusements, attractions, and other things to do. If you’re bringing the whole family to Ocean City, be sure to check out the plethora of free and kids activities, headlined by the free events hosted by the town each week in season (such as movies and concerts on the beach, light shows along the Boardwalk, beach olympics, fireworks, and Sundaes in the Park.