Infection is defined as a microbial phenomenon characterized by an inflammatory response to the microorganisms or the invasion of normally sterile tissue by those organisms.. Bacteremia is the presence of bacteria within the bloodstream, but this condition does not always lead to SIRS or sepsis. 
Inflammation (Latin, inflammatio) is part of the complex biological response of body tissues to harmful stimuli, such as pathogens, damaged cells, or irritants. Inflammation is a protective response that involves immune cells, blood vessels, and molecular mediators. Inflammation is a generic response, and therefore it is considered as a mechanism of innate immunity, as compared to adaptive immunity, which is specific for each pathogen.
Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues. Inflammation is a generic response, and therefore it is considered as a mechanism of innate immunity, as compared to adaptive immunity, which is specific for each pathogen.
Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is an inflammatory state affecting the whole body, frequently a response of the immune system to infection, but not necessarily so. Although the definition of SIRS refers to it as an inflammatory response, it actually has pro-and anti-inflammatory components.
Inflammatory response: A fundamental type of response by the body to disease and injury, a response characterized by the classical signs of dolor, calor, rubor, and tumor  -- pain, heat (localized warmth), redness, and swelling. Acute inflammation is short-lived, lasting only a few days. If it lasts longer, it is referred to as chronic inflammation. Chronic inflammation may last weeks, months, or beyond. Paradoxically, the inflammatory process itself may cause tissue damage while it is engaged in healing and repair.
Inflammation. Inflammation is the normal response of your body’s immune system to injuries and harmful things that enter your body. Immune cells quickly react to the damaged area to fix the problem. During the process, you may feel symptoms like pain, warmth, swelling and redness. Infection refers to the invasion and multiplication of a pathogen within the body, while inflammation is the body's protective response against infection. Inflammation is a complex process involving various types of immune cells, clotting proteins and signaling molecules, all of which change over time.
Inflammation is a process by which the body's white blood cells and substances they produce protect us from infection with foreign organisms, such as bacteria and viruses. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in the joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include the following: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis.
When inflammation occurs, chemicals from the body's white blood cells are released into the blood or affected tissues to protect your body from foreign substances. This release of chemicals increases the blood flow to the area of injury or infection, and may result in redness and warmth. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in the joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include the following: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis.
There are several major components to the immune response. The nonspecific immune response, or inflammation, is the response of the body's tissues and cells to injury from any source, e.g., trauma, organisms, chemicals, ischemia. As the initial response of the immune system to any threat, it involves vascular, chemical, and white blood cell activities. a tissue reaction to injury or an antigen that may include pain, swelling, itching, redness, heat, and loss of function. The response may involve dilation of blood vessels and consequent leakage of fluid, causing edema; leukocytic exudation; and release of plasma proteases and vasoactive amines such as histamine.
The purpose of inflammation is to eliminate the initial cause of cell injury, clear out necrotic cells and tissues damaged from the original insult and the inflammatory process, and to initiate tissue repair. The classical signs of acute inflammation are pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function. Inflammation is a generic response, and therefore it is considered as a mechanism of innate immunity, as compared to adaptive immunity, which is specific for each pathogen.