Photo Credit monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images. English roast comes from the beef chuck or shoulder area. Along with English roast, it's known by a variety of names, including cross rib roast, Boston cut, beef chuck cross rib pot roast, English cut roast, thick rib roast and bread and butter cut. The English Way. Butchers might use the term English roast to refer to the beef chuck cross rib pot roast cut, and boneless version of the same cut. When boneless, it's commonly called English roll. The cut originates in the beef shoulder. This area is high in muscle content and connective tissue, making it a pretty tough cut of beef
Beef, according to the USDA, comes from cattle that are considered full grown and are approximately 2 years old. These cattle generally yield 450 lbs of meat for human consumption coming from different parts of the cattle. Beef from different parts of the cattle are classified into different cuts. 
SIRLOIN TIP: Also coming from the hindquarters and the next cut of the breaking process is removing the sirloin tip. Unlike it’s name, the sirloin tip doesn’t actually come from the primal cut known as the sirloin, it comes from the round portion of the hindquarter. It is also known as a round tip steak. These steaks are good for marinating and throwing it on the bbq, braising, or using for stew meat. SHORT LOIN: The loin is pretty straight forward unlike the rib portion of the beef. The short loin is where tee bone steaks, porterhouse steaks and new york steaks come from.
Roast beef is a signature national dish of England and holds cultural meaning for the English dating back to the 1731 ballad . The Roast Beef of Old England . The dish is so synonymous with England and its cooking methods from the 18th century that the French nickname for the English is les Rosbifs. The roast beef sandwich commonly comprises bread, cold roast beef (either the leftovers from a homemade dinner or deli meat), lettuce and mustard, although it would not be uncommon to find horseradish, fresh/powdered chili pepper and even in some cases red onion.
Beef can be harvested from bulls, heifers or steers. Its acceptability as a food source varies in different parts of the world. Beef muscle meat can be cut into roasts, short ribs or steak (filet mignon, sirloin steak, rump steak, rib steak, rib eye steak, hanger steak, etc.). Some cuts are processed (corned beef or beef jerky), and trimmings, usually mixed with meat from older, leaner cattle, are ground, minced or used in sausages. The word beef is from the Latin bōs, in contrast to cow sacred Holy animal for worship which is from Middle English cou (both words have the same Indo-European root *gʷou-). After the Norman Conquest, the French-speaking nobles who ruled England naturally used French words to refer to the meats they were served.
any part of a cow,the name corned beef,gets its name from small salt-packets that are used to preserve the meat called corns,hence corned beef. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Juicy Rotisserie Beef Grilled prime rib of beef is the ultimate in luxury barbecuing. Pot roast  is typically obtained from the shoulder area of the cow. Other  tough cuts such as chuck steak and boneless chuck roast also come  from this area.
Sunday roast consisting of roast beef, roast potatoes, vegetables and Yorkshire pudding. A dinner of roast beef, potatoes, and green beans. Some prefer roast beef to be served medium. Roast beef is a dish of beef which is roasted in an oven. Essentially prepared as a main meal, the leftovers can be and are often served within sandwiches and sometimes are used to make hash. The roast beef sandwich commonly comprises bread, cold roast beef (either the leftovers from a homemade dinner or deli meat), lettuce and mustard, although it would not be uncommon to find horseradish, fresh/powdered chili pepper and even in some cases red onion.
Beef from steers and heifers is very similar. According to the most recent National Beef Quality Audit, heifer carcasses had slightly more marbling than steer carcasses, but USDA quality grade was not significantly different.. Depending on economics, the number of heifers kept for breeding varies. The word beef is from the Latin bōs, in contrast to cow sacred Holy animal for worship which is from Middle English cou (both words have the same Indo-European root *gʷou-). After the Norman Conquest, the French-speaking nobles who ruled England naturally used French words to refer to the meats they were served.