1 Hotel Mercure (Hotel Mercure Reims Cathedrale), 31 boulevard Paul Doumer (51 723 Reims), ☎ +33 3 26 84 49 49, [6]. checkin: 3pm; checkout: 11am. 2  Recently refurbished, the 4-star hotel Mercure Reims Cathedrale cathédrale is located in the center of the city near The cathedral and The Convention.  center There are two tram lines in the city. They share a similar route, but the B line goes to the new Champagne-Ardennes TGV station. Trams on this line can be very infrequent. If you're looking to catch a train at Champagne-Ardennes, it's best to book from Reims Central instead of relying on the tram.
Reims is served by two main railway stations: Gare de Reims in the city centre, the hub for regional transport, and the new Gare de Champagne-Ardenne TGV 5 kilometres (3 miles) southwest of the city with high-speed rail connections to Paris, Metz, Nancy and Strasbourg. Many people know Reims for its cathedral, Notre-Dame de Reims, formerly the place of coronation of the kings of France. The cathedral became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1991, along with the former Abbey of Saint-Remi and the Palace of Tau.
1 Hotel Holiday Inn (Hotel Holiday Inn Centre Reims), 46 rue Buirette (51 100 Reims), ☎ +33 3 26 78 99 99, [5]. checkin: 3pm; checkout: 11am. 2  The 4-star hotel Holiday Inn Centre Reims is located in the heart of Reims, near the Place Drouet d’Erlon and the Cathedral. There are two tram lines in the city. They share a similar route, but the B line goes to the new Champagne-Ardennes TGV station. Trams on this line can be very infrequent. If you're looking to catch a train at Champagne-Ardennes, it's best to book from Reims Central instead of relying on the tram.
The map can be zoomed and shifted-as you are used to do with Google Maps-to ensure you can find Reims. You can drag and drop the red marker or just click anywhere else to change the location of Reims. When you are done, confirm your choice by clicking just on the red marker. This is not only a geography quiz about Reims-we have lots of other locations from all around the world. Just try a random location or choose from the menu above any location you search for or you might know.
During World War II the city suffered additional damage. But in Reims, at 2:41 on the morning of 7 May 1945, General Eisenhower and the Allies received the unconditional surrender of the German Wehrmacht. Many people know Reims for its cathedral, Notre-Dame de Reims, formerly the place of coronation of the kings of France. The cathedral became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1991, along with the former Abbey of Saint-Remi and the Palace of Tau.
Stay in the Heart of Reims. Located in the center of the city of Reims, Hotel Azur is just a 5-minute walk from the SNCF train station. It offers rooms with flat-screen satellite TV and free Wi-Fi access. Breakfast is served daily at the Azur and during the summertime, guests can enjoy their meal on the garden patio. Hotel Azur is just half a mile from the Cathedral Notre-Dame de Reims and the Museum of Fine Arts. The hotel is easily accessible by highway A4, which provides access to Paris. We speak your language! Hotel Rooms: 19 This property has been on Booking.com since Sept 24, 2009.
Reims (/ˈriːmz/ ; also spelt Rheims; [ʁɛ̃s]), a city in the Champagne-Ardenne region of France, lies 129 km (80 mi) east-northeast of Paris. Founded by the Gauls, it became a major city during the period of the Roman Empire. Many people know Reims for its cathedral, Notre-Dame de Reims, formerly the place of coronation of the kings of France. The cathedral became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1991, along with the former Abbey of Saint-Remi and the Palace of Tau.
Reims Cathedral, view from north-east. Notre-Dame de Reims (Our Lady of Reims) is the seat of the Archdiocese of Reims, where the kings of France were crowned. The cathedral replaced an older church, destroyed by fire in 1211, that was built on the site of the basilica where Clovis was baptized by Saint Remi, bishop of Reims, in AD 496. That original structure had itself been erected on the site of some Roman baths.
Clovis' Baptism. Clovis, Frankish king was baptised by Remi, bishop of Reims on Chritsmas Day 498 in a baptistery which is today situated where Notre-Dame Cathedral of Reims stands. It is thanks to Clovis’ baptism that Reims became the seat of the coronation of the kings of France. 
The city of Reims is located in the department of Marne of the french region Champagne-Ardenne. The city of Reims is located in the district of Reims. The area code for Reims is 51454 (also known as code INSEE), and the Reims zip code is 51100. The altitude of the city hall of Reims is approximately 83 meters. The Reims surface is 46.90 km ²