The fact is, your baby will not wear new born sizes for long; if your baby weighs 8 lbs or less at birth, you can plan on him wearing new born sizes for 3 to 4 weeks. If your baby is larger than 8 lbs, it will be less. You are far better off returning the new born baby clothes and purchasing the next size up - 0-3 months; depending on how fast your baby grows, you could get 8 to 10 weeks out of this size. In closing, I do have one disclaimer.
It’s a common misconception that newborn babies need to wear hats to stay warm (right after the birth). In fact, there is no need to rely on hats to keep your baby warm, because you will be keeping your baby warm. Hats on newborn babies seem to be the normal thing to do. Depending on where you gave birth, the notion of ‘hatting’ a newly born baby will either seem like a normal part of the post-birth process, or a non-issue.
If your home is chilly, then keep a hat on the newborn. Definitely, when the babe is going to be taken out of the house. 100 years ago, even adults wore sleep caps, because their homes were on the chilly side. A few years ago, I was trying to go to sleep in a chilly bedroom and I couldn’t seem to be quite comfortable. 
The baby’s hat should also be removed when you enter an area that is warm, such as on a bus or going into a shop, even if it means waking baby1. There are some babies that need to wear a hat indoors. These are babies that were born prematurely, of low birth weight or have difficulty maintaining their temperature. Once these babies are of a certain healthier weight or are able to maintain their body temperature, the hat should be removed indoors2. Babies lose excess heat from their heads and whilst it is a good idea to cover baby’s head outside if it is cold or windy, once in the house, the baby’s hat should be removed. The baby’s hat should also be removed when you enter an area that is warm, such as on a bus or going into a shop, even if it means waking baby 1.
Your baby does not need to wear a hat indoors or while he's asleep (Lullaby Trust nd) . Feel your baby's tummy to see if he is getting too hot or too cold and adjust his bedding accordingly. If your baby is too hot, remove one or more blankets as needed. If your baby is cold, add a layer. 
if you are inside and at a stable temp then you can remove the hat-but the baby should always have a hat on while outside...they cant control their body temp and you lost at least 60% of your body heat from your head. nmoonglow88 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. My son was born with a full head of hair and even in the hospital didn't wear a hat (Sept baby). That first winter he would have something to cover his head outdoors, but I've never once put a hat on him inside. I'd just use common sense.
Best Answer: Wow your doctor needs to do his research. He should wear a hat outdoors if it's cold-not at home and certainly not in bed as it's a SIDS risk. Babies use their head to regulate temperature-losing heat from their scalp. if you don't think he needs it, he probably doesn't. Please don't put it on overnight. My son was born with a full head of hair and even in the hospital didn't wear a hat (Sept baby). That first winter he would have something to cover his head outdoors, but I've never once put a hat on him inside. I'd just use common sense.
If the baby is outdoors in cool weather, then yes I'd put a hat on her. Otherwise, don't go nuts over it. My son was born with a full head of hair and even in the hospital didn't wear a hat (Sept baby). That first winter he would have something to cover his head outdoors, but I've never once put a hat on him inside. I'd just use common sense.