Link to discussion of the evidence linking cigarette smoking to lung cancer. Most cancers in the lung are carcinomas-cancers of epithelial cells. The top pair of images shows the normal epithelium of the bronchi. This photomicrograph is greatly enlarged. The next three pairs of images show three successive stages of abnormal changes in the bronchial epithelium commonly found in smokers.
Carcinomas are named based on how the cells look under the microscope. Squamous carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma is the name of a type of lung cancer where the cells resemble the flat cells (called squamous cells) that line the airways. It is a common type of lung cancer in the United States.
The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if ovarian epithelial cancer spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are actually ovarian epithelial cancer cells. The disease is metastatic ovarian epithelial cancer, not lung cancer.
Bronchogenic Carcinoma is the medical term for lung cancer. It is characterized by uncontrolled cell growth in tissues of the lung. If left untreated, the growth could spread beyond the lung in a process called metasis into nearby tissue or other parts of the body.
Epithelial cells may be squamous, cuboidal, or columnar in shape and may be arranged in single or multiple layers. Simple cuboidal epithelium is found in glandular tissue and in the kidney tubules. Simple columnar epithelium lines the stomach and intestines. Pseudostratified columnar epithelium lines portions of the respiratory tract and some of the tubes of the male reproductive tract.
The cartilage and mucous membrane of the primary bronchi are similar to that in the trachea. As the branching continues through the bronchial tree, the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles.
Cancer of the lung is the leading cause of death from cancer in all males and in females between the ages of 15 and 64. Overall, the rate of new cases continues to grow even though the role of cigarette smoke in causing lung cancer is well-established.