We encountered three rare cases of cancer of unknown origin affecting the mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes. Patient 1 was a 63 year-old man. Chest X-ray and CT films revealed an enlarged right hilar lymph node. A right mediastinal and hilar lymphadenectomy was performed.
The mediastinum is divided into three sections: Mediastinal tumors are benign or cancerous growths that form in the area of the chest that separates the lungs. This area, called the mediastinum, is surrounded by the breastbone in front, the spine in back, and the lungs on each side.
Isolated mediastinal and/or hilar lymphadenopathy (IMHL) is a relatively common reason for respiratory physician referral in the UK. The differential diagnosis includes benign granulomatous disorders, for example, tuberculosis (TB) and sarcoidosis, 1 and malignancy, including lymphoma and metastatic carcinoma.
1 Bronchogenic cyst – A benign growth with respiratory origins. 2  Lymphadenopathy mediastinal – An enlargement of the lymph nodes. 3  Pericardial cyst – A benign growth that results from an out-pouching of the pericardium (the heart’s lining).
1 Lymphadenopathy mediastinal – An enlargement of the lymph nodes. 2  Pericardial cyst – A benign growth that results from an out-pouching of the pericardium (the heart’s lining). 3  Thyroid mass mediastinal – Usually a benign growth, such as a goiter. 4  These types of tumors can occasionally be cancerous.
Enlarged hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Kirchner J(1), Kirchner EM, Goltz JP, Obermann A, Kickuth R. Author information: (1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Allgemeines Krankenhaus Hagen, Germany.
Middle mediastinum. 1  Bronchogenic cyst – A benign growth with respiratory origins. 2  Lymphadenopathy mediastinal – An enlargement of the lymph nodes. 3  Pericardial cyst – A benign growth that results from an out-pouching of the pericardium (the heart’s lining).
LYMPHADENOPATHY ON CT. Bilateral symmetric hilar and right paratracheal mediastinal adenopathy, as in this patient, is the most common pattern of lymphadenopathy in sarcoidosis. Computed tomography shows para-aortic and retrocaval lymphadenopathy. CT can demostrate enlarged lymph nodes which are not visible on radiographs. There is an enlarged ...