Recover from a Restore Point. First type system restore into the search box in the Start menu and hit Enter. That opens the System Restore wizard and from here you can choose the recommended restore point,which is the most recent one…Or you can choose a different restore point, which for our situation we need to do. Select the radio button next to Choose a different restore point then click Next.
To create a manual restore point you need to follow these steps: 1  Click on the Start button to open your Start Menu. 2  Click on the Control Panel menu option. 3  Click on the System and Maintenance menu option. 4  Click on the System menu option. 5  Click on System Protection in the left-hand task list. To create a manual restore point you need to follow these steps: 1  Click on the Start button to open your Start Menu. 2  The Start button looks like this: 3  Click on the Control Panel menu option. 4  Click on the System and Maintenance menu option. 5  Click on the System menu option
You can also manually create restore points to record your computer state and settings before you make changes to your computer. This allows you to restore the computer to a previous state, by choosing a restore point on a date or time prior to when you made the change. You can create a restore point when you like the way your computer is functioning or before you make changes on your computer, like installing programs, that might make your computer function differently. Restore operation restore points. Each time you perform a restoration, it is a change made
How Create a Restore Point First I'll go through the Windows 7 procedure and then in Windows 8, but the process is nearly identical in both. Windows 7: 1. Tap the Start button and right-click on Computer and choose Properties. 2. Click on System Protection in the left sidebar of the resulting window. 
I don't want to do a system restore to a point in time. I want to restore it to the factory settings. To reinstall windows using the advanced recovery it states I require a windows installation disc, yet the computer didn't come with one. How do I create a windows installation disc.. How is this disc different from the System Repair Disc.
Try a System Restore to a Date before the problem started: Restore Point: http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/windows-vista/using-windows-vista-system-restore/. Do System Restore in Safe Mode, if unable to do it in Normal Mode. I am trying to restore my computer but the restore point/date only goes back about a week. I need to go back further than the dates provided in the drop down menu. 7 people had this question.
To create a system restore point manually, open Control Panel and type System Restore in search box. Click on Create a restore point. The System Properties box will open. Click on Create. The System Protection box will openand you will be asked to give it a name. I chose the name – TWC here. Click on Create. Alternatively, you may open the Run box, type rstrui.exe and hit Enter to open System Restore. The System Restore will open. Click on Next. Select a Restore Point, to which you want to restore your computer to, and c
Click next on the next screen, and then choose System Restore from the System Recovery dialog. It will take a few seconds to come up, and you will see the same screen that you would see in Windows: Click next, and on the next screen select the drive that your copy of Windows 7 or Vista is installed on. 
To undo a system restore, please go to the Windows 8 Start Screen and type restore point. When the search results appear click on the Settings category. Now click on the option labeled Create a restore point and you will be brought to the System Protection tab of the System Properties control panel. Your previous system restore has now been undone. Manually Creating Restore Points. It is possible to manually create a new restore point when you wish rather than waiting for the daily interval. If you wish to create manual restore point you need to