Immunity to a disease is achieved through the presence of antibodies to that disease in a person’s system. Antibodies are proteins produced by the body to neutralize or destroy toxins or disease-carrying organisms. Antibodies are disease-specific. Passive immunity is provided when a person is given antibodies to a disease rather than producing them through his or her own immune system. A newborn baby acquires passive immunity from its mother through the placenta.
A. Innate immunity B. Naturally acquired active immunity C. Naturally acquired passive immunity D. Artificially acquired active immunity E. Artificially acquired passive immunity explain. Source(s): type immunity results vaccination: https://biturl.im/SQPFW. Gregory · 2 months ago. Thumbs up. A. Innate immunity B. Naturally acquired active immunity C. Naturally acquired passive immunity D. Artificially acquired active immunity E. Artificially acquired passive immunity explain. 1 following.
Vaccine Immunity. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. The immune system of the body functions to protect it against invasion by germs and microbes. When an individual is vaccinated against a disease or an infection, his or her immune system is prepared to fight the infection. This type of immunity against an illness is called naturally acquired immunity. In addition, if the disease is contagious it may also be passed on to family members, friends, or others who come into contact. Vaccines, which provide artificially acquired immunity, are a much safer way to become immune.
The wonders of the immune system. When an agent (vaccine or natural exposure) is introduced into the body antigens are activated. When they activate antibodies are then create … d to lock in on the virus to destroy it. Some vaccines do not offer 100% protection. A vaccine can either be live or killed. A rabies vaccine for example is a killed vaccine. After a virus whether natural or vaccinated is encountered the immune system makes memory cells that remember how to destroy the virus. When the virus is introduced at a later date the memory cells activate and kill off the virus before any symptoms of illness are see
Active immunity is stimulation of the immune system to produce antigen-specific humoral (antibody) and cellular immunity. Unlike passive immunity, which is temporary, active immunity usually lasts for many years, often for a lifetime. One way to acquire active immunity is to have the natural disease. Another way to produce active immunity is by vaccination. Vaccines interact with the immune system and often produce an immune response similar to that produced by the natural infection, but do not subject the recipient to the disease and its potential complications.
Active and Passive Immunity. Naturally acquired active immunity occurs when the person is exposed to a live pathogen, develops the disease, and becomes immune as a result of the primary immune response. Artificially acquired active immunity can be induced by a vaccine, a substance that contains the antigen. A vaccine stimulates a primary response against the antigen without causing symptoms of the disease (see vaccination). Artificially acquired passive immunity is a short-term immunization by the injection of antibodies, such as gamma globulin, that are not produced by the recipient's cells.
Exposure to the disease organism can occur through infection with the actual disease (resulting in natural immunity), or introduction of a killed or weakened form of the disease organism through vaccination (vaccine-induced immunity). Passive immunity is provided when a person is given antibodies to a disease rather than producing them through his or her own immune system. A newborn baby acquires passive immunity from its mother through the placenta.