Edison made Swan a partner and eventually bought out his patent. The idea of the electric light bulb, obviously did not spring up miraculously in Thomas Edison’s head. He knew that it was being worked on and that some patents had already been issued. Humprey Davy, an English chemist, really invented the electric light in 1809. James Watt did not invent the light bulb. Thomas Edison is regarded by most people to have invented it. Electric light was invented in 1806 by Humphrey Davy. Joseph Swan patented a light bulb in a vacuum in 1879.
In addition, Edison did not simply come up with the idea on October 21, 1879. He had been working on his light bulb since 1877. He had been trying to come up with a material that could be used as a filament for the light bulb without burning out too quickly. He tried many different substances. Thomas Edison invented the light bulb in 1879. Edison discovered that a carbon filament in an oxygen-free bulb glowed but did not burn up for 40 hours. Edison eventually produced a bulb that could glow longer. Yojana_Thapa | Student, Grade 10 | TA | (Level 1) Valedictorian.
This is an early sketch from Thomas Edison of his light bulb. Thomas Edison’s serious incandescent light bulb research began in 1878, filing his first patent later that year…”Improvement In Electric Lights” in October 1878. Thomas Edison Lightbulb. Let there be Light! Historians agree that Thomas Edison was not the inventor of the electric light bulb, but he did produce the first commercially viable one.
Thomas Edison and the “first” light bulb. In 1878, Thomas Edison began serious research into developing a practical incandescent lamp and on October 14, 1878, Edison filed his first patent application for Improvement In Electric Lights. A Brief History of the Light Bulb. The electric light, one of the everyday conveniences that most affects our lives, was not “invented” in the traditional sense in 1879 by Thomas Alva Edison, although he could be said to have created the first commercially practical incandescent light.
Electric lights already existed on a streetlight scale when, on this day in 1879, Edison tested the one he’s famous for. Though he didn’t come up with the whole concept, his light bulb was the first that proved practical, and affordable, for home illumination. Welgos / Getty Images Still life of the first electric light bulb, invented by Thomas Alva Edison in 1879 and patented on January 27, 1880.
Thomas Alva Edison (February 11, 1847 – October 18, 1931) was an American inventor and businessman. He developed many devices that greatly influenced life around the world, including the phonograph, the motion picture camera, and the long-lasting, practical electric light bulb. Thomas Edison was born in Milan, Ohio, and grew up in Port Huron, Michigan. He was the seventh and last child of Samuel Ogden Edison, Jr. (1804–1896, born in Marshalltown, Nova Scotia) and Nancy Matthews Elliott (1810–1871, born in Chenango County, New York).
It is misleading to say that Edison invented the light bulb on October 21, 1879 because the light bulb was not his own original idea and because he did not simply come up with it on that day. The idea of the light bulb had been around for a long time before 1879. Thomas Edison invented the light bulb in 1879. Edison discovered that a carbon filament in an oxygen-free bulb glowed but did not burn up for 40 hours. Edison eventually produced a bulb that could glow longer. Yojana_Thapa | Student, Grade 10 | TA | (Level 1) Valedictorian.
Incandescent Bulbs Light the Way. Long before Thomas Edison patented -- first in 1879 and then a year later in 1880 -- and began commercializing his incandescent light bulb, British inventors were demonstrating that electric light was possible with the arc lamp. 
Introduction. In his 84 years, Thomas Edison acquired a record number of 1,093 patents (singly or jointly) and was the driving force behind such innovations as the phonograph, the incandescent light bulb and one of the earliest motion picture cameras. He also created the world’s first industrial research laboratory. Thomas Edison’s Early Life. Thomas Alva Edison was born on February 11, 1847, in Milan, Ohio. He was the seventh and last child born to Samuel Edison Jr. and Nancy Elliott Edison, and would be one of four to survive to adulthood.