The skin 1 is one of the largest organs in the body in surface area and weight. The skin consists of two layers: the epidermis and the dermis. Beneath the dermis lies the hypodermis or subcutaneous fatty tissue. The skin has three main functions: protection, regulation and sensation. Wounding affects all the functions of the skin. The skin is an organ of protection. The primary function of the skin is to act as a barrier. The skin provides protection from: mechanical impacts and pressure, variations in temperature, micro-organisms, radiation and chemicals
Epidermis is characterized by being _______, whereas dermis is distinguished by being _______. A) the innermost layer of the skin; under the epidermis. B) composed largely of connective tissue; composed of stratified squamous epithelial tissue. 
Skin performs the following functions: 1  Protection: an anatomical barrier from pathogens and damage between the internal and external environment in bodily defense; Langerhans cells in the skin are part of the adaptive immune system. The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm thick and the back is 14 mm thick and is the thickest skin in the body. The speed and quality of wound healing in skin is promoted by the reception of estrogen.
3. By covering the whole body surface skin acts as a protective barrier and plays a role in. excretion. immunity. circulation. respiration. 4. Epidermis is characterized by being _______, whereas dermis is distinguished by being _______. the innermost layer of the skin; under the epidermis. composed largely of connective tissue; composed of stratified squamous epithelial tissue
The epidermis is the relatively thin, tough, outer layer of the skin. Most of the cells in the epidermis are keratinocytes. They originate from cells in the deepest layer of the epidermis called the basal layer. Epidermis. The epidermis is the relatively thin, tough, outer layer of the skin. Most of the cells in the epidermis are keratinocytes. They originate from cells in the deepest layer of the epidermis called the basal layer. New keratinocytes slowly migrate up toward the surface of the epidermis.
Answer by Viennasix9. There are 6 primary functions of the Skin: 1:Protection-The Skin forms a protective barrier from the environment, heat, light,infection & injury. 2: Sensation: Nerve endings in the skin provide us with perception of touch, pressure, temperature (hot/cold) vibration and injury. Its main function is protection.   Each of the structures that make up the skin has one or more  functions, which play a vital role in maintaining good health. One  of t … he primary purposes of the skin is to provide a flexible,  protective shield between us and the outside world.
Integumentary System. 2. The outermost layer of the skin is the. 3. All of the following are functions of the skin EXCEPT. 4. The protein that helps protect the skin and underlying tissue is. 5. The cells producing the pigment responsible for skin color are the. 6. All of the following are accessory organs of the skin EXCEPT. 7.
The skin interfaces with the environment and is the first line of defense from external factors. For example, the skin plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss. Its other functions are insulation, temperature regulation, sensation, and the production of vitamin D folates. Severely damaged skin may heal by forming scar tissue. The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm thick and the back is 14 mm thick and is the thickest skin in the body. The speed and quality of wound healing in skin is promoted by the reception of estrogen.
Skin has three layers: 1  The epidermis, the outermost layer of skin, provides a waterproof barrier and creates our skin tone. 2  The dermis, beneath the epidermis, contains tough connective tissue, hair follicles, and sweat glands. 3  The deeper subcutaneous tissue (hypodermis) is made of fat and connective tissue. 
A graphic representation of the interface between skin epithelium and the underlying connective tissue the reticular dermis. The dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which it makes up the cutis) and subcutaneous tissues, that consists of connective tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. 