The organic compound citrulline is an α- amino acid. Its name is derived from citrullus, the Latin word for watermelon, from which it was first isolated in 1914 by Koga & Odake. It was finally identified by Wada in 1930. Citrulline is made from ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate in one of the central reactions in the urea cycle. It is also produced from arginine as a by-product of the reaction catalyzed by NOS family (NOS; EC 1.14.13.39).
In the body, citrulline is produced as a byproduct of the enzymatic production of nitric oxide from the amino acid arginine, catalyzed by nitric oxide synthase. This is an essential reaction in the body because nitric oxide is an important vasodilator required for regulating blood pressure. Citrulline is made from ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate in one of the central reactions in the urea cycle. It is also produced from arginine as a by-product of the reaction catalyzed by NOS family (NOS; EC 1.14.13.39).
L-citrulline is a naturally occurring amino acid. It is found in some foods like watermelons and is also produced naturally by the body. L-citrulline is used for Alzheimer ’s disease, dementia, fatigue, muscle weakness, sickle cell disease, erectile dysfunction, high blood pressure, and diabetes. It is used for heart disease, body building, increasing energy, and for improving athletic performance
L-citrulline is a naturally occurring amino acid found in food, such as watermelons, and also made in the body. Our bodies change L-citrulline into another amino acid called L-arginine and also to nitric oxide. L-citrulline might help increase the supply of ingredients the body needs to making certain proteins. It is found in some foods like watermelons and is also produced naturally by the body. L-citrulline is used for Alzheimer ’s disease, dementia, fatigue, muscle weakness, sickle cell disease, erectile dysfunction, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
Citrulline is a non-essential amino acid, meaning that the body can manufacture it from other nutrients. Within the body, citrulline is converted to the amino acid L-arginine. Some of the proposed uses of citrulline supplements are based on raising levels of arginine. Citrulline also plays a role in a physiological process called “the urea cycle,” in which toxic ammonia is converted to urea.
Citrulline Malate Common Misspelling: Citruline, citriline. Citrulline malate powder, supplement form of the essential amino acid citrulline. This supplement is very popular in the body building and athletic community due to a number of its benefits, which include an ability to help decrease body fat levels [1] . L-Citrulline vs Citrulline Malate Supplements. L-Citrulline is used as a workout supplement to increase performance and blood flow. Malic acid can increase the effectiveness of citrulline supplementation, which is why it's paired with l-
1. citrulline-an amino acid that does not occur in proteins but is an intermediate in the conversion of ornithine to arginine. amino acid, aminoalkanoic acid-organic compounds containing an amino group and a carboxylic acid group; proteins are composed of various proportions of about 20 common amino acids. 
A. Citrulline antibody is an immune protein (antibody) that binds to a non-standard amino acid (citrulline) that is formed by removing amino groups from the natural amino acid, arginine. Citrulline antibodies are measured with a blood test that is analyzed in laboratories. 
In this article. L-citrulline is a substance called a non-essential amino acid. Your kidneys change L-citrulline into another amino acid called L-arginine and a chemical called nitric oxide. These compounds are important to your heart and blood vessel health. They may also boost your immune system. L-citrulline boosts nitric oxide production in the body. Nitric oxide helps your arteries relax and work better, which improves blood flow throughout your body. This can be helpful for treating or preventing many diseases. Evidence suggests the supplement can help lower blood pressure in people with prehypertension.