Some of the terms used to describe these combinations include: 1  Dunalino, yellow dun or palomino dun: a chestnut-based coat with one cream allele and at least one dun allele. 2  Dunskin, buckskin dun, or buttermilk dun: a bay-based coat with one cream allele and at least one dun allele. Horses that have the cream gene in addition to a base coat color that is chestnut will become palomino if they are heterozygous, having one copy of the cream gene, or cremello, if they are homozygous.
I am buying a filly that is being called a dunalino but she looks like a plain old palomino to me. I am fine with her being a palomino or whatever she is. She has gone through quite a few colors so I don't really know. Her sire was a dunskin and dam was a black and white if that makes any difference. 
Absolutely stunning dunalino gelding. Boogie is a 2005 dunalino (palomino dun) QH Gelding, 15.1 hands. Healthy and sound. All AQHA lines, but no papers, has only had two owners. He's Watch Joe Jack/Two Eyed Jack and Page Bull Parker bred. He has the conformation and the breeding to be an excellent working horse. 
This is my new mare, Lena. I am wondering if she is possibly a Dunalino or just a dark palomino because of the dorsal strip. I am going to have her tested here eventually. Lena's sire was sorrel and her dam was palomino Dam's sire was also palomino but out out a cross between red dun x palomino. I do not have photos of her dam or dam's sire unfortunatley. Now Lena has had two foals in the past, one palomino filly and one cremello colt.
Stallions Now has a listing of dunalino stallions at stud, many of which have additional color genes like tobiano, overo, and Appaloosa. To be sure they are dunalino, look for a distinct dorsal stripe. Sooty areas also tend to be larger than the shaded parts on the stallion pictured here. When you take a look at the second picture of Major Hearts Desire, you can see that he has a distinct dorsal stripe. Palominos don’t have dorsal stripes, but duns do. Major Hearts Desire.
Palominos sometimes have darker shading, which is described as “sooty” and may be accompanied by lots of dapples, but it generally originates at the spine and goes down the sides of the horse in a uniform way. Sooty areas also tend to be larger than the shaded parts on the stallion pictured here. When you take a look at the second picture of Major Hearts Desire, you can see that he has a distinct dorsal stripe. Palominos don’t have dorsal stripes, but duns do. Major Hearts Desire.
Now…if Major Hearts Desire had the darker areas on his knees, hocks, and withers only with no dorsal stripe, you’d have to rule out dun. A distinct dorsal stripe is a dead giveaway for the dun gene. Dunalino can also be modified by other genes. Sooty areas also tend to be larger than the shaded parts on the stallion pictured here. When you take a look at the second picture of Major Hearts Desire, you can see that he has a distinct dorsal stripe. Palominos don’t have dorsal stripes, but duns do. Major Hearts Desire.
Trained. A dunalino is a palomino with the dun gene. Dun is a basically a modifier. Even horses that are just called duns are actually bay duns, or bay with a dun gene.
His lovely golden color is the result of the cream modifier, palomino, on chestnut, and the dun gene gives him very faint leg barring (the darker coloring on his legs), a dorsal stripe, and shoulder bars (the shading on his withers). Sooty areas also tend to be larger than the shaded parts on the stallion pictured here. When you take a look at the second picture of Major Hearts Desire, you can see that he has a distinct dorsal stripe. Palominos don’t have dorsal stripes, but duns do. Major Hearts Desire.
This is my mare Shadowplay Sahara Moon-bred by Rabbitzfizz. She is out of a Red Dun mare which is why I am asking. Slaney is a pale Palomino even in her summer coat and in winter with all the hair tends to look more white. Slaney is out of a mare called Alfoxton Amber Moon and her sire is Asils Sahara Snow Storm-Dont know what colour the sire was but I am guessing thats where the cream came from and the dam was a red dun. Here is a pic of Slaney as a foal with her dam. Banner Miniature Horses http://www.bannerminiaturehorses.com/.