Chondritis, or cartilage inflammation, can affect any part of the body where cartilage exists. Some common types include osteochondritis, which affects the joints, and costochondritis, which occurs in the cartilage of the ribs. The condition can cause pain, swelling, and stiffness in the affected area.
In relapsing polychondritis, cartilage becomes inflamed, causing redness, swelling, irritation, discomfort and pain in the affected areas. The inflammation of this disease may cause your windpipe, or trachea, to narrow, resulting in hoarseness, shortness of breath and wheezing.
Cuts to the ear: A cut, or laceration, to the ear can become infected and inflamed. Trauma to the ear: A blow or impact to the ear can lead to inflammation if blood accumulates between the cartilage and perichondrium; trauma is a common cause of cauliflower ear.
Auricular chronditis: Inflammation of ear cartilage. The cartilage of the ear can become inflamed, causing swelling, redness and pain of the outer ear. The cartilage, found in the outer ear, is a springy, supple type known as elastic
Costochondritis (kos-toe-kon-DRY-tis) is an inflammation of the cartilage that connects a rib to the breastbone (sternum). Pain caused by costochondritis might mimic that of a heart attack or other heart conditions.
Costochondritis is inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone (sternum). Costochondritis causes localized chest wall pain and tenderness that can be reproduced by pushing on the involved cartilage in the front of the rib cage.
Relapsing polychondritis is a rare disease that causes inflammation of cartilage throughout the body, especially in the ears, nose, eyes and throat. Symptoms of this disease come and go. The severity of symptoms, and how often they appear, varies quite a bit from person to person.
Inflammation can occur due to pressure, stress or injury to the ear. Inflammation of cartilage is known as chronditis; when the cartilage and its surrounding soft tissues are inflamed it is known as perichronditis. The ear is the most common location for