Kaiden is mainly used in English. It is of Celtic and Arabic origin. Kaiden is a variant form of the English name Caden. Kaiden is also a variant form of the English and Arabic name Kadin. Kaiden is popular as a baby boy name, and it is also regarded as trendy. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of irregular use only
Kaiden is an uncommon first name for men but a somewhat popular surname for all people (#143847 out of 150436, Top 96%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Kaiden for boys. Kaiden entered the list in 2000 and reached its peak rank of #122 in the U.S. in 2013, and is currently at #124. Kaiden /kai-den/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic derivation, and the name Kaiden means companion. Kaiden is a variant form of Kaden (Arabic) with the prefix Kai- .
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kaiden. Kaiden is yet another American spelling variation of the first name Caden which was derived from a Gaelic surname, Mac Cadain (cadáin meaning son Of). cadain cadáin The name Kaiden first appeared on the American popularity charts in the year 2000. This newly made-up variation of the “Caden” class of names shows up about 20 years after the original version (Caden). Kaiden is currently the fifth most popular form of the name.
Meaning of Kaiden. Irish name. In Irish, the name Kaiden means-warrior.The name Kaiden originated as an Irish name. The name Kaiden is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-warrior. Origin-Ireland.
Kaiden is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kai-den. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 124 in baby name popularity for boys with 3247 occurrences. It ranked 2282 in popular baby names for girls with 81 occurrences. View the Kaiden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kaiden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kaiden to other names. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kaiden in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kaiden in Nautical Flags page.
Kaiden Name Meaning. The meaning of Kaiden is “Companion”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kaiden and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Kaiden is fascinating, learn more about it.
You can rustle up an Irish origin for Caden, but this name's popularity is about pure sound. You simply cannot get a more fashionable set of phonemes, and the nickname Cade is a winner too. But an entire classroom of rhyming boys is a real risk here. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kaiden and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kaiden and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Kaiden is fascinating, learn more about it.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kaiden. Kaiden is yet another American spelling variation of the first name Caden which was derived from a Gaelic surname, Mac Cadain (cadáin meaning son Of). Cadain Cadáin the “gaelic” word cadain ‘cadáin’ possibly means battler but the etymology is. up for debate The name Kaiden first appeared on the American popularity charts in the year 2000. This newly made-up variation of the “Caden” class of names shows up about 20 years after the original version (Caden). Kaiden is currently the fifth most popular form of the name.