The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Lukowski families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Lukowski families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
Welcome to the Rutkowski Family page at Surname Finder, a service of Genealogy Today. Our editors have compiled this checklist of genealogical resources, combining links to commercial databases along with user-contributed information and web sites for the Rutkowski surname. Sometimes two people can look at the same handwritten record, and come up with different spellings of the name. Be creative when searching for your Rutkowski ancestors -- we often search for misspellings intentionally to see if we missed any records.
While some countries have limited historical records for last name assignments, you are most likely to only find general guidance on the origin and meaning of the Rutkowski surname. Were you aware that Rutkowski is a common Polish surname? The article  Pursuing Polish  may be helpful for your research. Sometimes two people can look at the same handwritten record, and come up with different spellings of the name. Be creative when searching for your Rutkowski ancestors -- we often search for misspellings intentionally to see if we missed any records.
Click on a place to view Rutkowski immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Rutkowski families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Rutkowski families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
This surname RUTKOWSKI was a Polish habitation name from a village called RUTKI, which was derived from the personal name RUDEK. The name is also spelt RUTOWSKI and RUTKIEWICZ. The bear which is depicted in the arms and crest has generally been regarded with a mixture of fear and amusement, due to its strength and unpredictable temper on the one hand and its clumsy gait on the other. Both these qualities are no doubt reflected in the choice of using the animal in the arms.
Thus a larger proportion of Polish names carried this termination in America and Australia than in Poland. Joseph Richard RUTKOWSKI, born on the 1th June 1954 in New York City, USA is a professional clarinettist. He made his debut at Carnegie Recital Hall, New York. The bear which is depicted in the arms and crest has generally been regarded with a mixture of fear and amusement, due to its strength and unpredictable temper on the one hand and its clumsy gait on the other. Both these qualities are no doubt reflected in the choice of using the animal in the arms.
Rutkowski Early Origins. First found in Prussia, where the name emerged in medieval times as one of the notable families of the region. From the 13th century the surname was identified with the great social and economic evolution which made this territory a landmark contributor to the development of the nation. More. Our PDF Coat of Arms + Extended History product is the whole package all in one. With a full color Coat of Arms along with a very detailed History, full symbolism, bibliography and settlers listed by the centuries. More about the Rutkowski Family Crest..
References. The Rutkowski Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Rutkowski Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. More. Our PDF Coat of Arms + Extended History product is the whole package all in one. With a full color Coat of Arms along with a very detailed History, full symbolism, bibliography and settlers listed by the centuries. More about the Rutkowski Family Crest..