This type of crown is made from zirconia, a very strong material which is compatible with the human body. Zirconia is used in many other medical applications such as artificial joints and is known for its strength and durability. Zirconia is a type of crystal which is long lasting and indestructible. 
Naturally occurring zirconium is composed of five isotopes. 90 Zr, 91 Zr, 92 Zr and 94 Zr are stable. 94 Zr can undergo double beta decay (not observed experimentally) with a half-life of more than 1.10×10 17 years. 96 Zr has a half-life of 2.4×10 19 years, making it the longest-lived radioisotope of zirconium. Twenty-eight artificial isotopes of zirconium have been synthesized, ranging in atomic mass from 78 to 110. 93Zr is the longest-lived artificial isotope, with a half-life of 1.53×10 6 years. 110 Zr, the heaviest isotope of zirconium, is also the shortest-lived, with an estimated half-life of only 30 milliseconds.
Since Kroll's breakthrough, zirconium has become an important element in several industries: steel, iron, and nuclear power. It is used in the steel industry to remove nitrogen and sulfur from iron, thereby enhancing the metallurgical quality of the steel. Raw Materials. Of the two mineral forms in which zirconium occurs, zircon is by far the more important source. Found mainly in igneous rock, zircon also appears in the gravel and sand produced as igneous rock erodes. In this form, it is often mixed with silica, ilmenite, and rutile.
Zirconia (Zirconium Oxide) is a white powdered metal used to create dental frameworks for crowns, bridges and other dental substructures. It replaces gold or stainless steel used in the past, creates the appearance of a whiter more translucent tooth, and is transparent in xrays. 
Zirconium is a chemical element with symbol Zr and atomic number 40. The name of zirconium is taken from the name of the mineral zircon, the most important source of zirconium. The word zircon comes from the Persian word zargun زرگون, meaning gold-colored. It is a lustrous, grey-white, strong transition metal that resembles hafnium and, to a lesser extent, titanium. Twenty-eight artificial isotopes of zirconium have been synthesized, ranging in atomic mass from 78 to 110. 93Zr is the longest-lived artificial isotope, with a half-life of 1.53×10 6 years. 110 Zr, the heaviest isotope of zirconium, is also the shortest-lived, with an estimated half-life of only 30 milliseconds.
Unlike other ceramic materials, zirconium oxide (ZrO 2 –also known as zirconia) is a material with very high resistance to crack propagation. Zirconium oxide ceramics also have very high thermal expansion and are therefore often the material of choice for joining ceramic and steel. 
Posted on March 5, 2012 by admin. Zirconia crowns are made of zirconia or zirconium oxide, and are very tough and durable in nature. Since such crowns have several advantages over traditional metal and porcelain dental implants, many people these days prefer to opt for them. 
Zirconium was discovered by German chemist Martin Heinrich Klaproth, who first isolated an oxide of the mineral zircon in 1789. The first metallic powder was produced in 1824 by a Swedish Chemist, Jons J. Berzelius. Raw Materials. Of the two mineral forms in which zirconium occurs, zircon is by far the more important source. Found mainly in igneous rock, zircon also appears in the gravel and sand produced as igneous rock erodes. In this form, it is often mixed with silica, ilmenite, and rutile.
Zirconium, symbol Zr on the Periodic Table, is a metal most often found in and extracted from the silicate mineral zirconium silicate and the oxide mineral baddeleyite. Raw Materials. Of the two mineral forms in which zirconium occurs, zircon is by far the more important source. Found mainly in igneous rock, zircon also appears in the gravel and sand produced as igneous rock erodes. In this form, it is often mixed with silica, ilmenite, and rutile.