The printer cannot print from the Mac computer because a print job is stuck in the print queue. The stuck print job cannot be deleted or cancelled and prevents further print jobs from printing. The Delete Job button is grayed out and does nothing when clicked. Figure: Example of a print job
In the Printers list, click your HP printer, and then click the Minus button () to delete it. Click the Add button (). Find, and then select the name of your printer from the Printer list, and then click Add to add your printer. Do not select an HP Fax driver. note: If your printer does not display in the list, make sure the printer is connected, turned on, has power, and is ready to print.
HP Printers-Print Jobs Stuck in Print Queue (Windows). This document is for HP printers and computers with Windows. The printer cannot print from a computer because a print job is stuck in the Windows print queue. This stuck print job cannot be cancelled or deleted and prevents further print jobs from printing. Clicking Cancel on the job in the queue, does nothing.
If you are using an HP printer and a windows vista operating system then you are lucky to automaticlly fix the issue with the HP Print Diagnostic Utility Click Here For How to cancel printing or to delete a print job that is stuck in the print queue in Windows XP. Alternatively You can check the below steps.
Right-click the icon for your printer, and click Remove Device. The computer uninstalls the printer software. Restart the computer. Go to HP Support-Software & Drivers to find and download printer software that matches your model of HP printer.
Learn how to delete stuck print jobs on Windows 8. Clearing printer queue through the Control Panel: Right-click the bottom-left corner of the screen and select Run.. Type Control Printers in the text field and click OK..
After disabling the firewall clear the print queue and try printing again. If print jobs continue to get stuck, then the firewall is not part of the problem. If your printer prints, then adjust the firewall setting to allow the Windows print spooler service access to the system.
Restart the computer. When the computer has finished restarting, click the Apple icon (), and then click System Preferences. Click Printers and Scanners, Print & Fax, or Print & Scan to open the Printers list. Click your HP printer in the Printers list, and then click Open Print Queue.