For example, a home in Los Angeles with a roof size of 1,352 square feet that uses 1,954 KWh/month will probably need a 13.53 kwh solar power system. Before factoring in available credits/incentives, the system will cost $94,688. In this example, the post-incentive cost is $9,213. 
The bulk of the price of going solar is now the “soft costs” (installation, permitting, etc.) rather than the solar panel cost. Again referencing the latest US Solar Market Insight report, the average installed cost of a residential solar panel system was $4.72/watt. However, prices vary tremendously by region. “Common residential system prices ranged from less than $3.00/W to just above $7.00/W,” the Solar Energy Industries Association writes. I got a quote for my 2,000 square foot house in the Dallas area and it was $85,000 installed. Financed over 30 years that comes out to $509/month. My electric bill is about $140/month on average. So over 30 years solar would cost over $100,000 more than electricity from the grid (gas, coal, wind).
Our residential solar power systems are custom designed for your home. Getting a solar panel system price estimate is easy: you can start with a quick online quote, talk with one of our friendly consultants or request a free consultation and written proposal. For a 3-bedroom home with a current electricity bill of $200 per month, we might recommend a medium sized 4 kW solar system. Please note solar panel system pricing varies quite a bit based on system size, design and local rebates, so keep reading below to get a custom quote
1 Solar-powered home water heaters cost $1,000-$3,500 (including installation) but have extremely low monthly operating costs and can be used in any climate, according to the US Department of Energy. 2  The cost for a solar heating system can vary widely. 
That translates to about $34,800 for a four-kilowatt system, the average size of a residential installation. To see real average cost data for solar projects installed near you, visit the Find a Contractor page on California Solar Statistics. The cost of a PV system depends on the system size, equipment options (panels and inverters), permitting costs, and labor costs. Prices vary depending on other factors as well, such as whether your home is new, where the system is installed on your premise, the PV manufacturer, and other factors.
Free consultation. Schedule a free consultation with one of our knowledgeable consultants to learn about the price of a solar panel system for your home and how much you can save every month on your electricity bills. The initial call will be about 10 minutes. For a 3-bedroom home with a current electricity bill of $200 per month, we might recommend a medium sized 4 kW solar system. Please note solar panel system pricing varies quite a bit based on system size, design and local rebates, so keep reading below to get a custom quote for your home.
Our annual electrical usage each year is a miserly 4,800 kilowatt-hours, of which 75 percent is produced by the solar-electric array. The average cost across the country for a professionally installed system is about $8 to $9 per watt, with batteries adding an additional 20 to 30 percent to the cost. If you are a handy do-it-yourselfer, you can save around $2 per watt, but your system may be more difficult to certify for incentives. 
1 Be sure the inverter is covered for at least 10 years and the panels are covered for 20 to 25 years. 2  Uses panels made by a manufacturer based in the U.S. That way your warranty will still protect you if the manufacturer goes belly up. 3  Doesn’t outsource installation. 
The goal of this article is to give you an idea of how much a solar panel system will end up costing in your particular situation. In the first part of this article we`ll be going through how much solar panels cost for a typical American single-family home. This metric indicates costs relative to electrical power output. The cost of solar panels have decreased significantly over the last decade and are currently selling for under $0.70/W in industrial quantities. For homeowners, this translates to about $1.5/W.
For example, the total average cost of an installed residential PV system under the California Solar Initiative is $8.70 per Watt (including installation, as of January 2011). The cost of a PV system depends on the system size, equipment options (panels and inverters), permitting costs, and labor costs. Prices vary depending on other factors as well, such as whether your home is new, where the system is installed on your premise, the PV manufacturer, and other factors.