Like all the planets in our solar system, Earth and Mars orbit the sun. But Earth is closer to the sun, and therefore races along its orbit more quickly. Earth makes two trips around the sun in about the same amount of time that Mars takes to make one trip. 
are there any planets known that go opposite to their own orbits which have the same mass of earth hence earth moves clockwise planet x moves counter clockwise. Report Abuse. In our solar system, all the planets go orbit the Sun in the same direction as the sun rotates. And while this is true in almost every system, a planet was recently discovered orbiting another star which does not orbit in the same direction as it's star rotates.
The Counter-Earth is a hypothetical body of the Solar system hypothesized by the pre-Socratic Greek philosopher Philolaus (c. 470 – c. 385 BCE) to support his non-geocentric cosmology, in which all objects in the universe revolve around an unseen Central Fire (distinct from the Sun which also revolves around it). 1 Gor is the name of the Counter-Earth that is the setting for a series of 32 novels by John Norman. 2  The 1969 science-fiction film Doppelgaenger (doppelgänger also known As journey to The Far side of The), sun depicts the discovery and investigation of another planet Sharing'earth s orbit on the opposite side of The.  sun
Retrograde orbit: the satellite (red) orbits in the direction opposite to the rotation of its primary (blue/black). Retrograde motion is motion in the direction opposite to the movement of something else and the contrary of direct or prograde motion. The inclination of a celestial object is the angle between its orbital plane and another reference frame such as the equatorial plane of the object's primary. In the Solar System, inclination of the planets is measured from the ecliptic plane, which is the plane of Earth 's orbit around the Sun.
The terms orbital period, periapsis, and apoapsis were introduced in Chapter 3. , in which the spacecraft moves in the same direction as the planet rotates, or. , going in a direction opposite the planet's rotation. is a term used to describe the locations of various points in an orbit. It is the angular distance of a point in an orbit past the point of periapsis, measured in degrees. For example, a spacecraft might cross a planet's equator at 10° true anomaly. 
In the Solar System, all of the planets and most of the other objects that orbit the Sun, with the exception of many comets, do so in the prograde direction, i.e. the same sense as the rotation of the Sun. The inclination of a celestial object is the angle between its orbital plane and another reference frame such as the equatorial plane of the object's primary. In the Solar System, inclination of the planets is measured from the ecliptic plane, which is the plane of Earth 's orbit around the Sun.
Confidence votes 13.0K. All of the planets orbit the sun in the same direction. The axial rotation of each planet, the spin can vary though. Most spin in an anti-clockwise direction, but Venus and Uranus spin in a clockwise direction when viewed from above
All eight planets in the Solar System orbit the Sun in the direction that the Sun is rotating, which is counterclockwise when viewed from above the Sun's north pole. Six of the planets also rotate about their axis in this same direction. The exceptions—the planets with retrograde rotation—are Venus and Uranus. Venus's axial tilt is 177 degrees, which means it is spinning almost exactly in the opposite direction to its orbit. Uranus has an axial tilt of 97.77 degrees, so its axis of rotation is approximately parallel with the plane of the Solar System. The inclination of a celestial object is the angle between its orbital plane and another reference frame such as the equatorial plane of the object's primary. In the Solar System, inclination of the planets is measured from the ecliptic plane, which is the plane of Earth 's orbit around the Sun.