A scriptorium is commonly a large room set apart in a monastery for the use of the scribes or copyists of the community. When no special room was devoted to this purpose, separate little cells or studies called carrels were usually made in the cloister, each scribe having a window and desk to himself. The rules of the scriptorium varied in different monasteries, but artificial light was forbidden for fear of injury to the manuscripts, and silence was always enforced. As a general rule those of the monks who possessed skill as writers made this their chief, if not their sole active work.
Definition of SCRIPTORIUM. : a copying room for scribes especially in a medieval monastery. See scriptorium defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Bridgeman/Trinity College Cambridge. The commonly accepted idea of a medieval scriptorium is of a low dark room dedicated to the purpose of producing manuscripts, with rows of highly trained scribes hunched over desks in alcoves working in serious silence. 
Noun. 1. scriptorium-a room in a monastery that is set aside for writing or copying manuscripts. monastery-the residence of a religious community. room-an area within a building enclosed by walls and floor and ceiling; the rooms were very small but they had a nice view. Simone Mengis, Schreibende Frauen um 1500: Scriptorium und Bibliothek ... by Winston-Allen, Anne / Medium Aevum. Among his topics are the legacy of Bede, Spanish adoptionism and the Frankish reaction, the Tours. , The Old and New Testaments; cultivating prayer, theology for the laity, and the poet and his friends.
Scriptorium is a Latin word that means place for writing.. It was a place where books were copied and illuminated (painted). A scribe wrote the text for a book, and an artist, called an illuminator, painted the pictures and decoration. Scribes and illuminators made each book by hand.
A scriptorium was a necessary adjunct to a library; wherever there was a library it can ordinarily be assumed that there was a scriptorium. The Benedictine Plan of St. Gall is a sketch of an idealised monastery dating from 819-826, which shows the scriptorium and library attached the northeast corner of the main body of the church; this is not reflected by the evidence of surviving monasteries.
Confidence votes 13. A medieval scriptorium was the room, or building, usually part of a church or monastery where books and documents were copied by hand before the invention of a printing press or movable typeset. Usually an orator would read the book to be copied aloud and multiple writers would copy it. scriptorium is from latin, means a room where writing is done. in ancient times there was no automatized book printing so all books were copied bu hand by monks in scriptorium … s.
Scriptorium, literally a place for writing, is commonly used to refer to a room in medieval European monasteries devoted to the writing, copying and illuminating of manuscripts by monastic scribes. The Benedictine Plan of St. Gall is a sketch of an idealised monastery dating from 819-826, which shows the scriptorium and library attached the northeast corner of the main body of the church; this is not reflected by the evidence of surviving monasteries.