Philosophical aesthetics has not only to speak about art and to produce judgments about art works, but has also to give a definition of what art is. Art is an autonomous entity for philosophy, because art deals with the senses (i. e. the etymology of aesthetics) and art is as such free of any moral or political purpose. Aesthetics is for the artist as Ornithology is for the birds. For some, aesthetics is considered a synonym for the philosophy of art since Hegel, while others insist that there is a significant distinction between these closely related fields.
1. (used with a sing. verb). a. The branch of philosophy that deals with the nature, expression, and perception of beauty, as in the fine arts. b. The study of the psychological responses to beauty and artistic experiences. 2. (used with a sing. or pl. verb). a. A conception of what is artistically valid or beautiful: minimalist aesthetics. b. An artistically beautiful or pleasing appearance: They're looking for quality construction, not aesthetics (Ron Schram). 1. (Philosophy) the branch of philosophy concerned with the study of such concepts as beauty, taste, etc. 2. (Art Terms) the study of the rules and principles of art. [C18: from Greek aisthētikos perceptible by the senses, from aisthesthai to perceive]. (ɛsˈθɛt ɪks). n
Aesthetics may be defined narrowly as the theory of beauty, or more broadly as that together with the philosophy of art. 
or es•thet•ic. 1. pertaining to a sense of beauty or to aesthetics. 2. having a love of beauty. 3. concerned with emotion and sensation as opposed to intellectuality. 4. a theory or idea of what is aesthetically valid. 1. Relating to the philosophy or theories of aesthetics. 2. a. Of or concerning the appreciation of beauty or good taste: aesthetic judgment; the aesthetic appeal of the exhibit. b. Attractive or appealing: the more aesthetic features of the building.
Noun. 1. aesthetics - (art) the branch of philosophy dealing with beauty and taste (emphasizing the evaluative criteria that are applied to art); traditional aesthetics assumed the existence of universal and timeless criteria of artistic value. esthetics. 1. (Philosophy) the branch of philosophy concerned with the study of such concepts as beauty, taste, etc. 2. (Art Terms) the study of the rules and principles of art. [C18: from Greek aisthētikos perceptible by the senses, from aisthesthai to perceive]. (ɛsˈθɛt ɪks). n. (used with a sing.
Viewer interpretations of beauty possess two concepts of value: aesthetics and taste. Aesthetics is the philosophical notion of beauty. Taste is a result of an education process and awareness of elite cultural values learned through exposure to mass culture. Aesthetics is for the artist as Ornithology is for the birds. For some, aesthetics is considered a synonym for the philosophy of art since Hegel, while others insist that there is a significant distinction between these closely related fields.
Aesthetics is the philosophical branch of inquiry concerned with beauty, art and perception. From its philosophic roots in ancient Greece, where thinkers like Socrates and Plato considered the inherent meaning and beauty of things, aesthetics is also used to refer to the critique of art and design. In a contemporary sense, aesthetics can be used to reference a particular style or design. For example, a culture that uses a motif through many areas of design and function can be said to appreciate or adhere to a specific aesthetic.
The word – aesthetics – derives from the ancient Greek word aisthanomai, which means perception by the senses. As such, it is used in modern English as a noun, in the sense that something can appeal to the senses. In a contemporary sense, aesthetics can be used to reference a particular style or design. For example, a culture that uses a motif through many areas of design and function can be said to appreciate or adhere to a specific aesthetic.
Full Definition of AESTHETIC. 1. plural but sing or plural in constr: a branch of philosophy dealing with the nature of beauty, art, and taste and with the creation and appreciation of beauty. 2. 3. See aesthetic defined for English-language learners. 
From the late 17th to the early 20th century Western aesthetics underwent a slow revolution into what is often called modernism. German and British thinkers emphasised beauty as the key component of art and of the aesthetic experience, and saw art as necessarily aiming at absolute beauty. Aesthetics is for the artist as Ornithology is for the birds. For some, aesthetics is considered a synonym for the philosophy of art since Hegel, while others insist that there is a significant distinction between these closely related fields.