SIDE PLANK WITH QUAD STRETCH. This two-in-one move hits your obliques and improves your flexibility. You'll not only work the muscles on the side of your torso, but you'll loosen your hip flexors, a group of muscles on the front of your hips that allow you to bring your legs toward your chest, says Gaddour. Prolonged sitting can make these muscles tight, resulting in injuries like hamstring strains and back pain. But when you're in a side plank, your entire core is stabilized so your back can't easily move. PLANK SINGLE-ARM ROW. If you want to hit your back while you’re holding a plank, try this move. The single-arm row works your upper-back muscles including your lats, traps, rear deltoids, and rhomboids.
If you’re interested in using your own body weight to get fit and functional, but don’t know exactly what muscles does the plank work, this article gives you a refreshing look at one of the best forms of exercise out there! From the Adductor Hallusic of the big toes to the traps, planks almost have no limits. In essence planking is the act of suspending the body above ground somehow and using the muscles (along with leverage) to fight against gravity. SEE ALSO: The Plank Exercise – What You Need to Know.
An intermediate-level Pilates exercise, the side plank on the elbow requires you to support your body weight on your forearm and the side of one foot. Considerable core strength is needed to keep your hips from sinking toward the floor. If you are not quite able to perform a side plank on the elbow with good form, you can modify the exercise to strengthen many of the same muscles. Instead of extending your legs, bend your knees so your forearm and the side of one knee support your body weight.
Secondary Muscles. The side plank also works several other muscles that provide additional stability as you hold the position. These muscles include the gluteus maximus, the quadriceps on the front of your thighs and the hamstrings on the back of your thighs. If you are not quite able to perform a side plank on the elbow with good form, you can modify the exercise to strengthen many of the same muscles. Instead of extending your legs, bend your knees so your forearm and the side of one knee support your body weight.
Stabilizing Muscles. The plank is a full-body exercise, making it valuable in almost any training program. When you perform the plank on your forearms, you activate the trapezius and rhomboids at the upper back. All three deltoid muscles and the rotator cuff at the shoulder work to stabilize your torso. The plank is one of the simplest and most effective abdominal exercises. In its most basic form, you brace yourself at the top of a pushup while contracting your core muscles. You can do multiple variations of the plank to create more challenge and target different parts of the core.
Primary Muscles. The primary muscles the plank works are the erector spinae, the rectus abdomimus and the transverse abdominus. The erector spinae is a large muscle that runs up the length of the back. It surrounds your spine and allows you to straighten your back and rotate side to side. The plank is one of the simplest and most effective abdominal exercises. In its most basic form, you brace yourself at the top of a pushup while contracting your core muscles. You can do multiple variations of the plank to create more challenge and target different parts of the core.
The side plank primarily works muscles in your core. It strengthens abdominal and back muscles, particularly the transversus abdominis, rectus abdominis, obliques and quadratus lumborum. It also targets the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus in the hips, as well as the adductor muscles located in the inner thigh. If you are not quite able to perform a side plank on the elbow with good form, you can modify the exercise to strengthen many of the same muscles. Instead of extending your legs, bend your knees so your forearm and the side of one knee support your body weight.
By Dr. Mercola With exercise, sometimes the simplest of movements result in the greatest gains to your fitness, and this is certainly the case with planks. To do a plank, you hold your body (the trunk portion) off the ground, making sure to hold it in a straight line. To test and strengthen your balance, try a side plank with a leg raise – get into side plank position, then lift your top leg and hold for one count. Lower it and repeat, then switch sides. In addition, planks work all the muscles you need to maintain proper posture, like your back, chest, shoulders, abs, and neck.