How to make Capicola. Ingredients Salting (Day 1). 2-3kg pork neck. 1 kg salt. plastic container. Ingredients Spices and Hanging (Day 2 and beyond). Small Handful Crushed pepper. 1) Salting for 24 hours, turn it over after 12 hours: - 1kg Salt - 2-3kg pork neck-Bag or plastic container to fit the Capicola. Day 2 Prep. 2) Spices.
It's Capicola Time. A few years ago, my brother-in-law's father taught me how to make home-cured capicola. Made from whole pork loins, it's cured briefly with salt, then seasoned and allowed to hang and age for about 60 days. The name coppa is Italian for nape, while capicola comes from capo—head and collo—neck of a pig. The Neapolitan Italian spelling, 'Capocollo', is derived from Latin, caput collum.
It is similar to the more widely known cured ham, Prosciutto, because they are both pork-derived cold-cuts that are used in similar dishes. However, the technical definition of ham is the thigh and buttocks of a pig (or boar) slaughtered for meat, whereas Capicola is solely meat from the shoulder or neck. The name coppa is Italian for nape, while capicola comes from capo—head and collo—neck of a pig. The Neapolitan Italian spelling, 'Capocollo', is derived from Latin, caput collum.
Also known as coppa, capicola, or capocollo, capicollo takes its name from the cut of meat that consists of the upper portion of the pig’s neck (collo) and shoulder.The meat is salted and massaged before being stuffed into a natural beef casing. 1 Once the capicollo is inside the casing, grab the top end of the casing and give it a little yank to make sure that the meat moves all the way down. 2  Then tie the loose end of the beef casing with a double knot making sure there is as little air as possible left inside. 3  Cut off the excess butcher twine and
However, commodity pork, the type of pork that most commercial capicola is made with, will do just fine. Once you’ve got your butt(s), they must be cured in salt brine for 3 days. A salt brine is created by rubbing the butts with coarse, Kosher salt, then placed in a plastic bag or container. I was lucky enough to learn how to create superb capicola from the gastro-mechanic himself, Lou Palma. If you’re the type of foodie to swoon at the sight of aged, cured pork hanging from your rafters, read on and follow these steps precisely. The first step to curing capicola is to obtain pork butts, ideally Berkshire.
This may mean that you toss them around in the brine, or perhaps add more salt if it appears more brine is necessary. It is very important not to exceed three days of brine curing. This would cause the capicola to become much too salty. On the fourth day, rinse the brine from the butts with water and pat dry. I was lucky enough to learn how to create superb capicola from the gastro-mechanic himself, Lou Palma. If you’re the type of foodie to swoon at the sight of aged, cured pork hanging from your rafters, read on and follow these steps precisely. The first step to curing capicola is to obtain pork butts, ideally Berkshire.
Dry for 20 days before using. Transfer the capicola to a dry room with a relative humidity between 65 and 75 percent and a temperature between 70 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit (21 and 24 degrees Celsius). Keep it there for at least 20 days. 1  Once the capicola has finished drying, the process is complete. Smoke the meat for an additional 15 to 20 hours. After the 10 hours pass, close the dampers so that they are only one quarter of the way open, if you have not done so already. Smoke the capicola for another 15 to 20 hours at 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32
Salting. 1  Place the capicollo on a large pan and uniformly cover it with coarse salt. 2  Salt it for one day per kilo of its weight (one to two days for 1.5 kg). 3  After this time, wash off the salt with lukewarm water. 1 Once the capicollo is inside the casing, grab the top end of the casing and give it a little yank to make sure that the meat moves all the way down. 2  Then tie the loose end of the beef casing with a double knot making sure there is as little air as possible left inside. 3  Cut off the excess butcher twine and beef casing.
To age the capicola properly, you need a cold, dry place to hang them. A cold attic is ideal. Tie butcher's string in a loop around the capicola from end to end, and leave plenty of loose string on the top. 
Wooden slats, about 14 inches long (these can be ripped on a table saw from a 1-inch thick pine board). Long plastic wire ties (heavy 12-inch ones are best.). Cotton butcher's twine. For today, all you'll need is the pork loins and the salt, but in a couple of days you'll need the rest. The name coppa is Italian for nape, while capicola comes from capo—head and collo—neck of a pig. The Neapolitan Italian spelling, 'Capocollo', is derived from Latin, caput collum.