1 In pan saute sauté garlic in 1 tablespoon of olive oil until the garlic is lightly. 2  Golden add the drained fava beans and bring to a boil and simmer on. 3  Low then add the, lemon salt and pepper and mix while trying to mash at least half the fava.  beans 1 Then add the lemon, salt and pepper and mix while trying to mash at least half the fava beans. 2  Turn heat off and remove from oven. 3  Place the cooked fava beans in a serving dish. 4  Garnish the beans with parsley, tomato, green onions and the re remaining olive oil.
There are also cities named 'Lebanon' in Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Missouri, New Hampshire, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Virginia, USA. Lebanon is located in the Middle East. It is bordered by both Syria  and Israel. Shiite Islam dominates in Iran.    Lebanon is split evenly (27%-27%) between Shiites and Sunnis  (including Alawites under the term Shiite). The remainder of the  L … ebanese population is Christian, Druze, or religions that are less  than 1% of the Lebanese population.
Al-Maza is Lebanon's primary brewery, which was also, at one time, the Middle East's only beer-producing factory. Lebanon has always been well known in the region for its wines and arak, making it an exception when it comes to lack of alcohol in the region. Middle Eastern cuisine is the cuisine of the various countries and peoples of the Middle East. The cuisine of the region is diverse while having a degree of homogeneity. Some commonly used ingredients include olives and olive oil, pitas, honey, sesame seeds, dates, sumac, chickpeas, mint and parsley
Popular meze dishes in Greece, Cyprus, Iraq, Iran, Turkey, Israel, Lebanon, Palestinian territories, Jordan, Armenia and Syria include: 1  Mutabbal/Babaghanoush – eggplant (aubergine) mashed and mixed with seasonings. 2  Hummus – a dip or spread made from cooked, mashed chickpeas. In Lebanon and Cyprus, meze is often a meal in its own right. There are vegetarian, meat or fish mezes. Groups of dishes arrive at the table about 4 or 5 at a time (usually between five and ten groups).
There are 15 cities in the United States named Lebanon. These are  the states where you will find each city of Lebanon: New Hampshire,  Virginia, Indiana, Missouri, Nebraska … , Wisconsin, Tennessee,  Connecticut, New Jersey, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Philadelphia,  Kentucky, Illinois, and Oregon. Shiite Islam dominates in Iran.    Lebanon is split evenly (27%-27%) between Shiites and Sunnis  (including Alawites under the term Shiite). The remainder of the  L … ebanese population is Christian, Druze, or religions that are less  than 1% of the Lebanese population.
Meze or mezze (/ˈmɛzeɪ/ , also spelled mazzeh or mazze; Arabic: مزة ‎; Persian: مزه ‎‎; Turkish: meze; Greek: μεζές; Bulgarian: мезе) is a selection of small dishes served to accompany alcoholic drinks as a course or as appetizers before the main dish in Iraq, Iran, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Near East and th In Lebanon and Cyprus, meze is often a meal in its own right. There are vegetarian, meat or fish mezes. Groups of dishes arrive at the table about 4 or 5 at a time (usually between five and ten groups).
Lebanese cuisine (Arabic: المطبخ اللبناني ‎, Lebanese kitchen) includes an abundance of starches, whole grain, fruits, vegetables, fresh fish and seafood; animal fats are consumed sparingly. Poultry is eaten more often than red meat. Family cuisine offers also a range of dishes, such as stews or yakhnehs, which can be cooked in many forms depending on the ingredients used and are usually served with meat and rice vermicelli. The Lebanese flat bread is a staple to every Lebanese meal and can be used to replace the usage of the fork. Arak, an anise-flavored liqueur, is the Lebanese national alcoholic drink and is usually served with the traditional convivial Lebanese meals. Another drink is Lebanese wine