91 months ago. I've been editing videos for fun for about 6 years and recently a relative of a friend has asked me to do some professional work for his business and wants to pay me accordingly. The job would be to edit 4 hours of video down into 1 hour. It's to be a promotional piece for his medical practice. Some people are OK with working at Home Depot for $15/ hr. If you're OK with trading your hours for $15 each, then include your charge in the overall rate. The expenses are what they are. If you use an editor like Avid you'll be provided with exactly how much time you spend and what you actually do on the project.
Answer by LowellBrillante. Confidence votes 8. Figure out how much your time is worth, Find out as much you can about the project and try to figure out how long it will take you, then quote the person the price. The faster and better you are, the more you should charge. Such as: The size. If it's the size of your hand, I'll say like $1-$2. As big as two hands, $2-$3. The … size of a binder, $5. Dinner-plate size, $8. And it also depends what flavor. The more expensive it was to buy the ingredients for the pie, the more expensive the pie should be.
That is, you can put a gazillion hours into a project, but if it's only worth $1000.00 to the client, you will likely only make $1000.00. I'll regularly put 25-50% more time into a project than I charge for, simply because I'm experimenting with effects, movement and possibilities. Joined: Fri Mar 30, 2007 12:25 pm. $80 per hour here in Utah.. on general corporate pieces, it becomes $1000 per min for the most part which seems to work really well for me. $40 / hour for contract editing and training through a couple of companies I do regular work for.
5 Comments. We have had many questions on how much to charge for various jobs. When I first got into the biz almost 20 years ago, the standard for industrial video production (training, marketing etc.) was $1000 per finished minute. So a 20 minute piece would be $20,000, including planning, shooting and editing. Nowadays there is no standard.
Hi Doug, it really depends on what kind of editing you are doing. $20 is probably good for simple proofing, but if you are more experienced, you might want to charge $25 to $30 per hour. More in-depth editing, where you are line-editing, and you are dealing with a lot of links, is probably something more int eh $40 to $50 range. However, it just seems like setting rates for editing is much more fraught with difficulty. When you write, it’s easy to say, “This is how much I charge for a blog post. This is how much I charge for creating a press release.
Freelance video editors with several years of experience working as a video editor can charge more based on their careers and knowledge of the industry. Those who have spent time working for a professional editing firm or studio, like a movie or TV studio, can also charge more based on experience. While it is acceptable to use national hourly rates as a basis for determining how much to charge as a freelance video editor, a number of other factors must be considered as well.
What I do is this: I make $500 off the top for shooting, editing, and finishing the wedding. The reception is $100 (unless all a client wants is the reception in which case it's $500). The Love Story is $200. A custom photo slideshow is $50. Some people are OK with working at Home Depot for $15/ hr. If you're OK with trading your hours for $15 each, then include your charge in the overall rate. The expenses are what they are. If you use an editor like Avid you'll be provided with exactly how much time you spend and what you actually do on the project.
When charging by the page, the type of editing matters. According to The Writer’s Market, the average for proofreading is $3 per page, for copy editing $4 per page, and for content editing you can expect to charge around $7.50 per page. I have charged both hourly, and per-page, and don’t really have a preference. However, it just seems like setting rates for editing is much more fraught with difficulty. When you write, it’s easy to say, “This is how much I charge for a blog post. This is how much I charge for creating a press release.
Average Hourly Rate. According to the BLS, the median hourly rate for film and video editors is $24.49, while the mean hourly rate is $29.75 in 2011. The State University website indicates the average salary for film and video editors is $43,590, which equates to about $20.96 an hour. While it is acceptable to use national hourly rates as a basis for determining how much to charge as a freelance video editor, a number of other factors must be considered as well.