Best Answer: Boy I love this topic... Ok here is the thing.... Actually Cyprus is not in the original continental Europe. Imagine the map of Europe. The real Europe ends at the level of Bosphorus in Istanbul. One side of Istanbul is in Europe and the other side is in Asia. Turkey has a very small European lands when compared to her lands in Asia. Cyprus IS on the contintenal shelf of ASIA.In Geography books, the flag of Cyprus would be under the subject of Flags of Asia, not Flags
by Antonios Loizides. Cyprus is a large island located in the eastern Mediterranean Sea, east of Greece, south of Asia Minor, west of the Levant, and north of Egypt. The naming of the island is a matter of dispute amongst historian
After all, Cyprus aligns economically with Europe by using the Euro. (Well, I guess we’ll see if Cyprus stays with the euro currency by tomorrow.) Plus, if you look at where Cyprus plays football (aka soccer), then you would certainly see that it easily falls in the Europe category. 2) Cyprus is part of Asia. This is probably the most perplexing to me since I am Asian. When I think of Asia, I think of the big three: China/Korea/Japan, as well as, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Cambodia, etc. 
Japan is also an island nation and belongs to the continental shelf of ASIA. Cyprus IS on the contintenal shelf of ASIA.In Geography books, the flag of Cyprus would be under the subject of Flags of Asia, not Flags of Europe. Also, many outpost islands of Greece such as Samos, Rhodes, Mytiline, Chios, Kos, and Kalymnos on the contintental shelf of Asia
2. Culturally, Cyprus is in Europe and Asia. The internationally recognised Republic of Cyprus (populated by Greek Cypriots) is European, while the illegally occupied Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (populated by Anatolian Turks and Turkish Cypriots) is Asian. Report Abuse. Although geographically located in Asia (Middle East) Cyprus has more ties to Europe than to Asia being member of the Council of Europe, the European Union, the European Economic Area, the Eurozone, and having signed the Schengen agreement. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geography_o..
Answer by Meatpieboy. Confidence votes 69. Actually Cyprus is a member of the EU, but, it is located to the cross of 3 continents (Europe, Asia, Africa). It is an island country in the Eastern Mediterranean, south of Turkey and west of Syria and Lebanon. Actually it is only in Asian continent.
All of my Encyclopedias-Norwegian and British-claim that Cyprus is in Asia, while Merriam Webster´s Geographical Dictionary places Cyprus on both its European and Asian maps. (!) The world´s most comprehensive atlas-The Times Atlas of the World-places Cyprus in Asia. But it could also be called a transcontinental territory-i.e. part of both Europe and Asia. Geographically this is so. Culturally Cyprus is divided into a Greek part, which is culturally part of Europe, and a Turkish part, which is culturally moe or less part of Asia.
2 votes Vote for this answer. Cyprus is considered part of Europe. More specifically, Cyprus is a EURASIAN island nation in the eastern part of the Mediterranean Sea south of the Anatolian peninsula (Asia Minor) or modern-day Turkey. But it could also be called a transcontinental territory-i.e. part of both Europe and Asia. Geographically this is so. Culturally Cyprus is divided into a Greek part, which is culturally part of Europe, and a Turkish part, which is culturally moe or less part of Asia.
Cyprus is geographically in Western Asia (or the Near East), though politically and culturally it is considered as being in Europe. Historically, Cyprus has always been a bridgehead between Europe and Asia, with interchanging periods of Levantine, Anatolian, and Greek influences. But it could also be called a transcontinental territory-i.e. part of both Europe and Asia. Geographically this is so. Culturally Cyprus is divided into a Greek part, which is culturally part of Europe, and a Turkish part, which is culturally moe or less part of Asia.