From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Pentose Phosphate Pathway. In biochemistry, the pentose phosphate pathway (also called the phosphogluconate pathway and the hexose monophosphate shunt) is a metabolic pathway parallel to glycolysis that generates NADPH and pentoses (5- carbon sugars). For most organisms, the pentose phosphate pathway takes place in the cytosol; in plants, most steps take place in plastids. Similar to glycolysis, the pentose phosphate pathway appears to have a very ancient evolutionary origin.
The pentose phosphate pathway is primarily an anabolic pathway that utilizes the 6 carbons of glucose to generate five carbon sugars and reducing equivalents. However, this pathway does oxidize glucose and under certain conditions can completely oxidize glucose to CO 2 and water. The reactions of the PPP operate exclusively in the cytoplasm. From this perspective it is understandable that fatty acid synthesis (as opposed to oxidation) takes place in the cytoplasm. The pentose phosphate pathway has both an oxidative and a non-oxidative arm. The oxidation steps, utilizing glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) as the substrate, occur at the beginning of the pathway and are the reactions that generate NADPH
Description. The reactions of the oxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway occur in the cytosol and are important for generating NADPH through the oxidative reduction of NADP+. 1 Sinha A, Maitra PK; ''Induction of specific enzymes of the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway by glucono-delta-lactone in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.''; J Gen Microbiol, 1992 PubMed.
Reactions of the Pentose Phosphate Pathway. Reactions of the Pentose Phosphate Pathway: The first three reactions of the PPP are referred to as the oxidative portion and are the reaction that yield NADPH. The non-oxidative reactions result in the rearrangement of the carbon skeletons of numerous carbohydrates. The reactions of the PPP operate exclusively in the cytoplasm. From this perspective it is understandable that fatty acid synthesis (as opposed to oxidation) takes place in the cytoplasm. The pentose phosphate pathway has both an oxidative and a non-oxidative arm. The oxidation steps, utilizing glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) as the substrate, occur at the beginning of the pathway and are the reactions that generate NADPH
Transketolase is an enzyme of both the pentose phosphate pathway in all organisms and the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis. It catalyzes two important reactions, which operate in opposite directions in these two pathways. Moreover, in the Calvin cycle this is the first reaction catalyzed by transketolase, rather than the second. In mammals, transketolase connects the pentose phosphate pathway to glycolysis, feeding excess sugar phosphates into the main carbohydrate metabolic pathways.
In the first reaction of the non-oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, the cofactor thiamine diphosphate accepts a 2-carbon fragment from a 5-carbon ketose (D-xylulose-5-P), then transfers this fragment to a 5-carbon aldose (D-ribose-5-P) to form a 7-carbon ketose (sedoheptulose-7-P). Moreover, in the Calvin cycle this is the first reaction catalyzed by transketolase, rather than the second. In mammals, transketolase connects the pentose phosphate pathway to glycolysis, feeding excess sugar phosphates into the main carbohydrate metabolic pathways.
Because NADPH is an essential cofactor for glutathione-and thioredoxin-dependent enzymes that defend cells against oxidative damage, the oxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway is also important for protecting yeast from oxidative stress (CITS:[8929392])(CITS:[8910528])(CITS:[11557322])(CITS:[16179340]). 1 Sinha A, Maitra PK; ''Induction of specific enzymes of the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway by glucono-delta-lactone in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.''; J Gen Microbiol, 1992 PubMed.
There are two distinct phases in the pathway. The first is the oxidative phase, in which NADPH is generated, and the second is the non-oxidative synthesis of 6-carbon sugars. For most organisms, the pentose phosphate pathway takes place in the cytosol; in plants, most steps take place in plastids. Similar to glycolysis, the pentose phosphate pathway appears to have a very ancient evolutionary origin.
9 pentose phosphate pathway (7). 1  1. Pentose Phosphate PathwayThree main functions:1) Supply the cell with NADPH in order to: a) provide reducing power for biosynthetic reactions. 2  b) serve as a biochemical reductant (e.g., maintain glutathione levels). 3  c) be utilized by the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase system. 1