The Early Years. The construction of the Tower of Pisa began on August 9, 1173. Originally designed to be a bell tower, the tower actually stood upright for over 5 years, but just after the completion of the third floor (1178) it began to lean. The citizens of Italy were shocked as it began to lean ever so slightly. The Leaning Tower is the third oldest building on Pisa's Piazza del Duomo (cathedral square), the Cathedral and Baptistry were first. Utilizing many columns and archs, this tower represents an advanced understanding of weight and load characteristics, showing the Italian architectures' knowledge.
Tower of Pisa leans sideways because it was built on unstable soil. In 1173 construction started on the 180-foot bell tower, which is located in Pisa, a small town in the Italian province of Tuscany. The building began to lean as soon as the first three floors were completed. 
The tower of Pisa has been leaning so long -- nearly 840 years -- that it's natural to assume it will defy gravity forever. But the famous structure has been in danger of collapsing almost since its first brick was laid. It began leaning shortly after construction began in 1173. 
The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a freestanding bell tower located in the city of Pisa in Italy. Like its name suggest, it actually does lean to one side. The tower started to lean during construction because the foundation was built on soft ground that had difficulty supporting the weight. It was built as a freestanding bell tower for the cathedral in Pisa. On the side where the tower is lower because of the lean it stands at 187.27 feet. On the high side of the tower it stands at 186 feet. The tower weighs about 14,500 tons.
The leaning tower of Pisa is part of the Cathedral Square in Pisa, Tuscany, Italy, which is a UNESCO world heritage site. Originally it was built as a bell tower (campanile) for the cathedral. The tower has leaned almost since construction started, due to faulty foundation and weak subsoil. History of the Tower. Construction of the tower (in Italian: Torre pendente di Pisa) started in 1173, when the city of Pisa was prosperous. This makes it the third oldest structure of the Cathedral Square (Piazza del Duomo) in Pisa.
| Filed Under: The World 14 Comments. The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a marble bell tower at Pisa, Italy. Even though the tower has been leaning since it was under construction, it has stood for hundreds of years, despite the fact that it looks as if it might fall any minute. It has continued leaning, a millimeter each year, and now leans 14 feet out of line. Still, the lean does not stop thousands of tourists each year from climbing its 300 winding steps to the bell tower to view Pisa and the surrounding countryside.
Tower of Pisa leans sideways because it was built on unstable soil. In 1173 construction started on the 180-foot bell tower, which is located in Pisa, a small town in the Italian province of Tuscany. The building began to lean as soon as the first three floors were completed. 
The tower was begun over 800 years ago, in 1173, and after the first three of its eight stories were built, the ground started to sink, and the tower began to lean. It has continued leaning, a millimeter each year, and now leans 14 feet out of line. Still, the lean does not stop thousands of tourists each year from climbing its 300 winding steps to the bell tower to view Pisa and the surrounding countryside.
It is situated behind the Cathedral and is the third oldest structure in Pisa's Cathedral Square (Piazza del Duomo) after the Cathedral and the Baptistery. The tower's tilt began during construction, caused by an inadequate foundation on ground too soft on one side to properly support the structure's weight. The height of the tower is 55.86 metres (183.27 feet) from the ground on the low side and 56.67 metres (185.93 feet) on the high side. The width of the walls at the base is 2.44 m (8 ft 0.06 in). Its weight is estimated at 14,500 metric tons (16,000 short tons)