Examples of UNDERSCORE. 1  These failures underscore the difficulty of what we're attempting to do. 2  The President's visit underscores the administration's commitment to free trade. 3  She underscored the most important points. 1
When the underscore is used for emphasis in this fashion, it is usually interpreted as indicating that the enclosed text is. or italicized (as opposed to bold, which is indicated by *asterisks*). The underscore is not the same character as the dash character, although one convention for text news wires is to use an underscore when an em-dash or en-dash is desired, or when other non-standard characters such as bullets would be appropriate.
Familiarity information: UNDERSCORE used as a noun is very rare. • UNDERSCORE (verb). The verb UNDERSCORE has 2 senses: 1. give extra weight to (a communication). 2. draw a line or lines underneath to call attention to. Familiarity information: UNDERSCORE used as a verb is rare. 
An underline, also called an underscore, is a more or less horizontal line immediately below a portion of writing. Single and occasionally double (double-underscore) underlining is used in hand-written or typewritten documents as a way to emphasise key text. 
Underscore and underline. An underscore is different than an underline. If you are trying to underline any letter, number, or other text, the underline feature should be used. The underscore, by contrast, takes the place of another character, like a number, letter, or symbol. How to create an underscore. Creating the _ symbol on a U.S. keyboard. To create an underscore, hold down the Shift key and press the  -  (hyphen) key to the right of the 0 (zero) key on the top row of your keyboard. Creating the _ symbol on a smartphone or tablet
For the JavaScript library, see Underscore.js. The underscore [ _ ] (also called understrike, underbar, or underline) is a character that originally appeared on the typewriter and was primarily used to underline words. or italicized (as opposed to bold, which is indicated by *asterisks*). The underscore is not the same character as the dash character, although one convention for text news wires is to use an underscore when an em-dash or en-dash is desired, or when other non-standard characters such as bullets would be appropriate.
Alternatively referred to as a low line, low dash, and understrike, the underscore (_) is a symbol found on the same keyboard key as the hyphen. The underscore is commonly used as an alternative to the space key when the space is not allowed. How to create an underscore. Creating the _ symbol on a U.S. keyboard. To create an underscore, hold down the Shift key and press the  -  (hyphen) key to the right of the 0 (zero) key on the top row of your keyboard. Creating the _ symbol on a smartphone or tablet
Underscore. The underscore is a character that originally appeared on the typewriter and was primarily used to underline words. To produce an underlined word, the word was typed, the typewriter carriage was moved back to the beginning of the word, and the word was overtyped with the underscore character. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: underscore (Noun). An underline; a line drawn or printed beneath text; the character. underscore (Noun). A piece of background music. underscore (Verb). To underline; to mark a line beneath text. underscore (Verb). To emphasize or draw attention to.