The name Lucille is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lucille is: Light. American Meaning: The name Lucille is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lucille is: Light. French Meaning: The name Lucille is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Lucille is: French Light. Famous Bearer: comedienne Lucille Ball. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth.
[ 2 syll. lu-cil-le, luc-i- lle ] The baby girl name Lucille is pronounced as Luw-S IY-L †. Lucille is used mostly in the English and French languages. Its language of origin is Latin. The name is derived from Lucilla (Latin), a diminutive of Lucia borne by various minor early saints. 
Lucille is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Lu-ci-ille. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 343 in baby name popularity for girls with 966 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Lucille is a form of the name Lucilla. Variants of the name Lucille include Lucile. Lucille falls into the classic name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Lucille Ball, Lucille Clifton.
[ 2 syll. lu-cy, luc-y ] The baby girl name Lucy is pronounced as L UW-Siy- †. Lucy's language of origin is Latin and it is predominantly used in English. The meaning of Lucy is 'bright, born at daybreak'. It is from the word lux which is of the meaning ' light '. The name Lucy is derived via Lucie (Old French), itself a vernacular form of Lucia (Latin). In the medieval period, the Latin name Lucia was sometimes bestowed upon babies born at daybreak.
Lucy is a very prominent first name for females (#208 out of 4276, Top 5%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#9902 out of 150436, Top 7%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Lucy for girls. Lucy /lucy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LOO-see. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Lucy is light. Feminine of Lucius; vernacular form of Lucia. The feast day of Saint Lucy (fourth century), patroness of sight, is called the Festival of Light in Sweden.
Lucy is a very popular first name for women (#208 out of 4276) and also a very popular surname or last name for all people (#9218 out of 88799). The English Lucy surname is taken from the Norman language that was Latin-based and derives from place names in Normandy based on Latin male personal name Lucius. It was transmitted to England after the Norman Conquest in the 11th century (see also De Lucy
Lucy is an English and French feminine given name derived from Latin masculine given name Lucius with the meaning as of light (born at dawn or daylight, maybe also shiny, or of light complexion). Alternative spellings are Luci, Luce, Lucie. The English Lucy surname is taken from the Norman language that was Latin-based and derives from place names in Normandy based on Latin male personal name Lucius. It was transmitted to England after the Norman Conquest in the 11th century (see also De Lucy)
Lucille /lu-cil-le/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced loo-SEEL. It is of French and Latin origin, and the meaning of Lucille is light. Diminutive of Lucy. Lucilla was used by the Romans and revived in the 19th century. Comedienne Lucille Ball. Lucille is a very prominent first name for women (#145 out of 4276, Top 3%) but an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Lucille for girls. Lucille reached its apex rank of #30 in the U.S. during 1910-1919, and is at #343 presently