In layman's terms, Quantum Break is one of those wildly ambitious projects that would be prohibitively expensive were it not funded by a billion dollar corporation determined to get people excited about its upcoming entertainment hardware, in this case Microsoft's Xbox One. Unlike Defiance, Quantum Break is a single-player game, and its television show will come included with it in its entirety — sort of like a complete season box set spliced together with a AAA video game. Lake says Quantum Break is meant to be experienced as a unified creative work.
No, you probably won't want to. Since its reveal alongside the Xbox One's debut in May 2013, developer Remedy Entertainment has described Quantum Break as a curious mixture of traditional gameplay and, well, no gameplay at all. Though Remedy will allow it, the game maker doesn't want anyone skipping the Quantum Break show. So it's giving players more reasons to tune in, in the form of something akin to collectibles.
XBOX’s new video game and feature film ‘Quantum Break’ is now casting several roles in Atlanta, Georgia. Marinella Hume Casting is now casting actors, models, and talent to work on the upcoming XBOX feature film/video game, “Quantum Break” aka ‘Quest’. Read more Xbox New Video Game ‘Quantum Break’ Now Filming in Atlanta. A Quantum Break digital live-action series is also in production. The game will feature digital episodes that interact with the game based on the player’s choices. Marinella Hume Casting is now casting a ton of featured roles on the upcoming feature film
Its creators, Remedy Entertainment, describe Quantum Break as (inhale) a transmedia action-shooter video game and television hybrid that mashes together real world actors and traditional filmmaking with computer graphics and virtual settings in the same fictional universe. Unlike Defiance, Quantum Break is a single-player game, and its television show will come included with it in its entirety — sort of like a complete season box set spliced together with a AAA video game. Lake says Quantum Break is meant to be experienced as a unified creative work.
1 Twitter.  Xbox is now ramping up production for a new video game series, Quantum Break filming in Atlanta, Georgia. Quantum Break is an upcoming third-person shooter action game to be released for the Xbox One. It is being developed by Remedy Entertainment and published by Microsoft Studios. A Quantum Break digital live-action series is also in production.
With Quantum Break, Remedy Games delivers an action-packed, fast paced game in which you bend and... With Quantum Break, Remedy Games delivers an action-packed, fast paced game in which you bend and shape time in order to survive.
Quantum Break is an upcoming third-person shooter action game to be released for the Xbox One. It is being developed by Remedy Entertainment and published by Microsoft Studios. A Quantum Break digital live-action series is also in production. The game will feature digital episodes that interact with the game based on the player's choices. Quantum Break is set at and around Riverport University, a fictional university set in the Northeastern United States, where a time travel experiment has gone wrong.
A revolutionary entertainment experience that blurs the line between television and gaming. With Quantum Break, Remedy Games delivers an action-packed, fast paced game in which you bend and shape time in order to survive. How you play the game shapes a personalized version of the television show
Quantum Break isn't just a game, it's also a television show, starring human beings filmed on real sets. Facial ticks are the stitching that, Lake hopes, will connect players' emotions and experiences with the characters in the meat space with the characters in the virtual space. The mouths matter. Unlike Defiance, Quantum Break is a single-player game, and its television show will come included with it in its entirety — sort of like a complete season box set spliced together with a AAA video game. Lake says Quantum Break is meant to be experienced as a unified creative work.