The GI, or glycemic index, measures how quickly carbohydrates raise your blood sugar levels. If you have diabetes, choosing foods with a low GI level is ideal, as they take longer to digest, and can help you avoid spikes in your blood sugar levels. Some popular brands include versions made by B&G Foods and Malt-O-Meal. The cereal has a medium-high GI at 66, with a glycemic load of 17. But beware: the instant version has a higher GI. Cream of Wheat provides a sizeable portion of iron needed for your day: 11 milligrams.
Here are some of the types of cereals that can be taken by diabetics. Whole grains or unrefined grains contain bran (outer layer that is rich in fiber), endosperm (starchy part that is the source of energy), and germ (nutrient-rich inner part). The process of milling removes the bran and the germ. Advertisement. Diabetes is a medical condition that is characterized by elevated blood sugar levels. It is categorized into type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes occurs due to the body's inability to produce insulin, which is a hormone produced by pancreas.
Breakfast cereals made mostly of bran are a better option for diabetics, since they tend to contain fewer carbohydrates and have a lower glycemic index. Muesli. Muesli and granola-type breakfast cereals are very dense, and only a small portion, or between 1/4 to 1/2 cup, is necessary start your day with enough energy.
Unfortunately, for people with diabetes, many breakfast cereal brands are loaded with simple carbohydrates. Because these break down quickly into glucose, raising your blood sugar levels rapidly, these aren’t ideal for people with diabetes — or anyone who needs to keep track of their blood sugar. Some popular brands include versions made by B&G Foods and Malt-O-Meal. The cereal has a medium-high GI at 66, with a glycemic load of 17. But beware: the instant version has a higher GI. Cream of Wheat provides a sizeable portion of iron needed for your day: 11 milligrams.
If you have diabetes, choose cold cereals that have a lower glycemic index and keep your portions small to prevent spikes in your blood sugar levels. Muesli and granola-type breakfast cereals are very dense, and only a small portion, or between 1/4 to 1/2 cup, is necessary start your day with enough energy. Muesli
There are numerous health benefits of starting the day with a high-fiber breakfast cereal. However, not all types of cereals are good for diabetics. Diabetics should take whole grain or bran cereals with no sugar. The following Buzzle write-up provides information on choosing the best cereals for diabetics. Advertisement. Diabetes is a medical condition that is characterized by elevated blood sugar levels. It is categorized into type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes occurs due to the body's inability to produce insulin, which is a hormone produced by pancreas.
Diabetics need to watch their intake of carbohydrates and sugar, but this doesn't mean that cold cereals are off-limits. You just need to follow a few simple nutrition guidelines and serve your cereal along with the right accompanying foods for a simple, healthy and diabetic-friendly breakfast. Once you choose a cereal, you need to make it into a complete meal by adding other nutritious foods. Top your cereal with 1/2 cup of low-fat milk for protein and a serving of fruit if you haven't already reached your recommended limit for carbohydrates for the meal.
Large oat flakes mixed with milk or yogurt are a healthy cold cereal option for diabetics. Diabetics need to pay close attention to the amount and type of carbohydrates they eat. Cold cereals are an easy and convenient breakfast option if you are on the go, but many types of cereals have a high carbohydrate content, mainly from added sugar or refined flours that can quickly elevate your blood sugar levels. Muesli. Muesli and granola-type breakfast cereals are very dense, and only a small portion, or between 1/4 to 1/2 cup, is necessary start your day with enough energy.
According to the Harvard School of Public Health, a GI of 100 to 70 is high, 69 to 56 is medium, and 55 to 1 is low. If you have diabetes, it’s best to start your day with a low GI load breakfast, as this will set a good base for keeping your blood sugar, insulin, and energy level for the rest of the day. Some popular brands include versions made by B&G Foods and Malt-O-Meal. The cereal has a medium-high GI at 66, with a glycemic load of 17. But beware: the instant version has a higher GI. Cream of Wheat provides a sizeable portion of iron needed for your day: 11 milligrams.