Brown sugar is white sugar mixed with molasses. When you buy brown sugar, it is soft and fluffy. If stored too long or not stored properly, it turns into a rock-hard, solid brick. (Not a good thing!) There are a few things you can do to keep it from drying out. Then dry the disk off. Put the brown sugar in an air-tight container and add the disk to the container. When I added the disk to the container, my brown sugar was pretty hard.
How to soften hardened brown sugar: 1  Place the brown sugar in an airtight container with a piece of fresh bread placed on top. 2  Seal and leave overnight. 3  If it's not soft and fresh by morning, let it sit another day or two. 4  Sprinkle it with a few drops of water, place in a plastic bag, seal, and let sit for a couple days. 1 Make sure to store brown sugar in a sealed, airtight container. 2  A clay disc kept in the container can keep it soft for months (see tip above for clay disc). 3  A small piece of bread works also.
Alternatively, you can store a slice of fresh bread in the brown sugar canister. /the bread will absorb the extra moisture and go completely hard in about two weeks -- add a new slice at that time, throw the old one away, and you'll always have soft brown sugar. 
Their sole purpose is to keep brown sugar from drying out. If you don’t want to buy a terra cotta disk, you can put a slice of bread or a slice of an apple or even a damp paper towel in with the brown sugar to keep it soft. (What is quite amazing is that neither the apple nor the bread gets moldy or rancid. Then dry the disk off. Put the brown sugar in an air-tight container and add the disk to the container. When I added the disk to the container, my brown sugar was pretty hard.
Instructions. Store brown sugar inside a zippered plastic bag and then inside a cannister with an airtight seal. This should prevent it from becoming hard due to the absorption of too much moisture which is usually found in the air alone. Brown sugar is a wonderfully versatile product. Whether it's granulated, light brown or the rich dark brown, there are countless things you can use it for. Brown sugar will keep just about indefinitely if it is stored properly. Read on to discover just how to keep it fresh.
Chelsea, brown sugar gets hard because it has a lot of moisture in it, and then when that moisture evaporates, the sugar clumps together and becomes rock-hard. The easiest way to keep your sugar soft is simply to store it in a container that is airtight, to minimize evaporation. I use one of these Click-Clack containers and it does a great job. I really pack the sugar into a small container to help keep the ration of air to sugar low, too. Also, if you have a container that isn't as airtight, try including one of these terra cotta brown sugar savers; they are great at keeping the sugar softer.
How to Store Brown Sugar. A. To avoid dried-out and hardened brown sugar, store it in a cool area in a covered and airtight container once the box or bag has been opened. One way to soften hard sugar is to place a fresh apple slice, the peel of half a lemon, or a slice of bread in the sugar overnight
Pin it. Chelsea is wondering how to store her brown sugar. She writes: I just saw the question about storing flour, and it made me think my brown sugar always gets hard before I can use it all. I really pack the sugar into a small container to help keep the ration of air to sugar low, too. Also, if you have a container that isn't as airtight, try including one of these terra cotta brown sugar savers; they are great at keeping the sugar softer.
1 Place the brown sugar in an airtight container with a piece of fresh bread placed on top. 2  Seal and leave overnight. 3  If it's not soft and fresh by morning, let it sit another day or two. 4  Sprinkle it with a few drops of water, place in a plastic bag, seal, and let sit for a couple days. 1 Make sure to store brown sugar in a sealed, airtight container. 2  A clay disc kept in the container can keep it soft for months (see tip above for clay disc). 3  A small piece of bread works also.