The limited liability company, or LLC, is a popular business entity type among entrepreneurs and small business owners because of its liability protection and flexibility both in terms of tax treatment and operation. 
Function. The function of a limited liability company is to provide business owners with protection from personal liability for the activities of a business. In this way, a limited liability is like a corporation. For example, if the limited liability company is sued, the party seeking compensation cannot go after the assets of the owners of the business. Features. The owners of a limited liability company are called members. Typically, one of the owners is designated to serve as the managing member, overseeing the day-to-day operations of the enterprise.
However, it is essentially a hybrid entity that combines the characteristics of a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship. While the limited liability feature is similar to that of a corporation, the availability of flow-through taxation to the members of a LLC is a feature of partnerships. A corporate structure whereby the members of the company cannot be held personally liable for the company's debts or liabilities. Limited liability companies (LLC) differ slightly from one country to the next.
A limited liability company combines traditional corporate and partnership characteristics. Members of a limited liability company are given the same advantage of limited liability as shareholders of a corporation, while generally being taxable at the member level, like a partner in a partnership. 
Listed below are some of the characteristics of an LLC: 1  Limited Liability. 2  Members are not personally liable for the debts and liabilities of the LLC; 3  Pass-through taxation. 4  Can elect S status with the IRS; 5  Can be formed by one or more people; and. 6  Normally managed by its members but can be manager managed. The LLC, or Limited Liability Company, can be defined as an unincorporated company that is a cross between a corporation and a partnership.
Limited Liability. A key characteristic of public companies is their limited liability status. Limited liability means that the business's owners -- its shareholders -- aren't responsible over a set amount for their investment in the company. This means that if a public company is sued, the parties bringing the suit bring it against the company, not against its investors or shareholders.
A noncorporate business whose owners actively participate in the organization's management and are protected against personal liability for the organization's debts and obligations. The limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid legal entity that has both the characteristics of a corporation and of a partnership. An LLC provides its owners with corporate-like protection against personal liability. It is, however, usually treated as a noncorporate business organization for tax purposes. 
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. The primary characteristic an LLC shares with a corporation is limited liability, and the primary characteristic it shares with a partnership is the availability of pass-through income taxation. It is often more flexible than a corporation, and it is well-suited for companies with a single owner.
Listed below are some of the characteristics of an LLC: 1  Limited Liability. 2  Limited liability is governed by state law; 3  Members are not personally liable for the debts and liabilities of the LLC; 4  Pass-through taxation. 5  The LLC is treated like a partnership – or, for a one-member LLC, as a sole proprietorship; The LLC, or Limited Liability Company, can be defined as an unincorporated company that is a cross between a corporation and a partnership.
1. The key characteristics of a limited liability company (LLC) are: the tax characteristics of a corporation, plus the liability of shareholders. the tax characteristics of a partnership, plus the liability of partners. the tax characteristics of a corporation, plus the liability of a partnership. These are the characteristics of a limited liability corporation. 2. The LLC is a form of business organization that: was used in ancient Greece and Rome. became popular in the United States in the 1800s, during the industrial revolution. was authorized in the 1930s by the Securities and Exchange Commission.