Certain medications may also lead to a low white blood cell count because they can destroy white blood cells or damage the bone marrow. For example, taking antibiotics may sometimes cause an abnormal drop in neutrophils, a condition known as neutropenia.
A person with cancer can get a low white blood cell count from the cancer or from treatment for the cancer. Cancer may be in the bone marrow, causing fewer neutrophils to be made. The white blood cell count can also go down when cancer is treated with chemotherapy drugs that kill fast growing cells.
Medications or substances causing Low white blood cell count. The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Low white blood cell count as a symptom. This list is incomplete and various other drugs or substances may cause your symptoms (see Low white blood cell count). Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments.
A low WBC count is often linked to problems with the bone marrow and the inability to make enough white blood cells. Autoimmune diseases that attack your white blood cells can also lead to a low WBC count. Several different prescribed drugs, including chemotherapy, are known to decrease WBC production or destroy WBCs. A low WBC count can be serious because it increases your risk of developing a potentially life-threatening infection.
If the white blood cell count is very low, (fewer than 500 neutrophils in a microliter of blood), it is called severe neutropenia. When the neutrophil count gets this low, even the bacteria normally living in a person’s mouth, skin, and gut can cause infections.
Best Answer: As a general rule, antibiotics do not cause a decrease of white blood cells (WBCs). WBCs are one of the main ways the body fights infection. Because your son had a recent illness the WBC count most likely increased during that period in order to fight hi
As a general rule, antibiotics do not cause a decrease of white blood cells (WBCs). WBCs are one of the main ways the body fights infection. Because your son had a recent illness the WBC count most likely increased during that period in order to fight hi