Estrogen Dominance-An Elevated Estradiol to Progesterone Ratio. Estrogen dominance is a term coined by Dr. Lee in his first book on natural progesterone. It describes a condition where a woman can have deficient, normal or excessive estrogen, but has little or no progesterone to balance its effects in the body. 
Estrogen dominance is a term that describes a condition where a woman can have deficient, normal or excessive estrogen, but has little or no progesterone to balance its effects in the body. Even a woman with low estrogen levels can have estrogen dominance symptoms if she doesn't have enough progesterone. Excess estrogen causing estrogen dominance is also received transdermally from all sorts of external sources. These are called Xenoestrogens. These are fat-soluble and non-biodegradable in nature. Estrogen dominance is when your body is subjected to excess estrogen like compounds usually from a source outside the body. Estrogen dominance can be reduced by supplementing with Bioidentical progesterone cream and by reducing your exposure to environmental toxins or xenohormones.
Progesterone is the hormone secreted by the female reproductive system-the ovaries, placenta, and adrenal glands. The term progestin is used to describe progesterone and synthetic steroid hormones with progesterone-like properties, such as the progestogen levonorgestrel. Progesterone is the dominant female hormone for the last half of the menstrual cycle. Estrogen and progesterone work in synchronization with each other as checks and balances to achieve hormonal harmony in both sexes.
Estrogen dominance is a theory about a metabolic state where the level of estrogen outweighs the level of progesterone in the body. This is said to be caused by a decrease in progesterone without a subsequent decrease in estrogen. 
Often when a person is estrogen dominance progesterone levels are low. Supplementing with a bio-identical progesterone product helps to balance the ratio between estrogen and progesterone, thereby assisting in promoting proper hormone balance. 
While estrogen levels will decrease during menopause, the truth is, estrogen levels do not fall appreciably until after a woman’s last period. In fact, far more women suffer from the effects of “estrogen dominance” during the transition—that is, they have too much estrogen relative to progesterone. And some women can suffer from the symptoms of estrogen dominance for 10 to 15 years, beginning as early as age 35. When a woman’s menstrual cycle is normal, estrogen is the dominant hormone for the first two weeks leading up to ovulation. Estrogen is balanced by progesterone during the last two weeks.
If, however, a woman’s body fails to make enough progesterone during the “progesterone phase of the month” (days 14-28) and the estrogens dominate her biology, she will experience some combination of the 150+ symptoms of PMS/PMT/PMDD. This condition has been termed “estrogen dominance”. In some ways they mimic the effects of progesterone in the body, but in other important ways they gravely interfere with natural progesterone and can create and exacerbate hormone related health problems, and be a primary contributor to the condition referred to as Estrogen Dominance: 1  Increased Body Fat.
Tweet Estrogen dominance refers to an excess of estrogen when progesterone levels are inadequate. This condition can occur in women during the reproductive years, but tends to be particularly symptomatic for women during perimenopause and in menopause. Estrogen dominance is worsened by women not ovulating, women being exposed to synthetic estrogens and/or women not metabolizing estrogens correctly. Estrogen dominance is a term coined by John Lee, M.D. in the book What Your Doctor May Not Tell You About Menopaus
Progesterone is released by the rupturing of the egg follicle during ovulation. Testosterone too is secreted in “surges” around the time of ovulation, perhaps as Mother Nature’s way to increase our interest in sex, and again before menses. If there is no pregnancy, you have a period and the whole cycle begins again. Topics covered in this article: 1  Dr. John Lee and the original theory of estrogen dominance. 2  Why “estrogen dominance” is misleading — and a new understanding. 3  Symptoms of estrogen dominance. 4  Effects of xenoestrogens. 5  Phytotherapy — a gentle approach to a complex issue.
High estrogen or estrogen dominance can happen if estrogen levels are too great. These higher levels can occur naturally. Too much estrogen can also be the result of medication. For example, estrogen replacement therapy, a popular treatment during menopause, may cause the hormone to reach problematic levels. 