Protein foods that do not contain iodine include egg whites, fresh meats that have not been cured or processed, wild game and fresh poultry. Vegetable sources of protein that are iodine-free include unsalted nuts and peanut butter, lentils and beans. No fish, seafood or dairy are allowed on an iodine-free diet. 
These foods contain iodine and will boost the thyroid hormone levels in the body. Moreover, these foods stimulate the synthesis of thyroid hormones by supplying adequate amount of iodine to the thyroid. Read on to learn about some of the foods that are high in iodine and meet with daily iodine requirements of the body. 1  The Vegetables, fruits and Legumes are richest sources of iodine. This implies for any form of hypothyroidism, endemic goiter or Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, and the list goes on. Foods high in iodine can ease various thyroid symptoms such as moist hands, depression, irritability, mood swings, and anxiety to some extent.
Top 25 Rich Food Sources of Iodine: It is very important to include high amounts of iodine rich foods in your diet as the body cannot synthesize this mineral. The amount of iodine found in food sources is small. The quantity of iodine depends on environmental factors like use of fertilizers and soil concentration. 
22 Foods Highest in Iodine. Iodine is an essential mineral that’s vital to the proper functioning of the thyroid. The thyroid gland is responsible for managing growth and metabolism. An iodine deficiency can cause symptoms such as fatigue, high cholesterol, lethargy, depression, and swelling of the thyroid gland. Tuna that is canned in oil usually contains more iodine than when it’s canned in water. Three ounces of canned tuna provides 17 micrograms of iodine, or 11% of what the average person must consume per day.
Iodine is a trace element that is naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. Iodine is an essential component of the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Iodine in food and iodized salt is present in several chemical forms including sodium and potassium salts, inorganic iodine (I 2), iodate, and iodide, the reduced form of iodine [ 4 ]. Iodine rarely occurs as the element, but rather as a salt; for this reason, it is referred to as iodide and not iodine.
There are plenty of foods that are naturally high in Iodine. They range from seafood to potatoes, and it’s good to get a balance of different foods so that you’re not relying on one source. You can also find Iodine in supplements that contain kelp, as this is another place where Iodine is naturally found. Tuna that is canned in oil usually contains more iodine than when it’s canned in water. Three ounces of canned tuna provides 17 micrograms of iodine, or 11% of what the average person must consume per day.
Research has shown that a lack of dietary iodine may lead to enlargement of the thyroid gland, lethargy, fatigue, weakness of the immune system, slow metabolism, autism, weight gain and possibly even mental states such as anxiety and depression. The good news is that there are many popular foods with iodine, all of which are easy to incorporate into your daily diet. The Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) for iodine is 150 micrograms daily for everybody over the age of 14. The RDA for children ages 1-8 is 90/mcg every day, ages 9-13 is 120/mcg every day.
Share. The thyroid gland synthesizes thyroid hormones and iodine is an essential trace mineral that is crucial for the thyroid to function properly. Eating foods rich in iodine ensures the thyroid is able to manage metabolism, detoxification, growth and development. The good news is that there are many popular foods with iodine, all of which are easy to incorporate into your daily diet. The Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) for iodine is 150 micrograms daily for everybody over the age of 14. The RDA for children ages 1-8 is 90/mcg every day, ages 9-13 is 120/mcg every day.
Iodine Deficiency. Iodine is an element that is needed for the production of thyroid hormone. The body does not make iodine, so it is an essential part of your diet. Iodine is found in various foods (see Table 1). If you do not have enough iodine in your body, you cannot make enough thyroid hormone. 