This ring is generally referred to as the Kuiper Belt. The Kuiper Belt holds significance for the study of the planetary system on at least two levels. First, it is likely that the Kuiper Belt objects are extremely primitive remnants from the early accretional phases of the solar system. The inner, dense parts of the pre-planetary disk condensed into the major planets, probably within a few millions to tens of millions of years. 
The Kuiper Belt is a vast region of space beyond the orbit of Neptune, extending from about 30 AU to 50 AU (4.5 to 7.5 billion km) from the Sun. There are dwarf planets (Pluto-Charon, Haumea, Makemake) and many other icy bodies within the belt. Jan Oort discovered the Oort Cloud which is much farther out (50000 AU from the sun) than the Kuiper Belt (30-50 AU from the sun). The Kuiper Belt is named after astronomer Gerard Kuiper for his theories on an area in the solar system past Pluto where short-period comets derived from.
The Kuiper Belt (sometimes referred to as the Kuiper-Edgeworth Belt) is an area of the outer solar system that is estimated to stretch across 20 astronomical units (AU) of space. It contains small solar system bodies made mostly of ices. The Kuiper Belt extends from roughly the orbit of Neptune (at 30 AU out to about 55 astronomical units from the Sun. The main body of this belt covers much of this region, ranging from nearly 40 AU to 48 AU.
The Kuiper Belt is a region beyond Neptune in which an assortment of the solar system's refuse from planet-making orbits the sun. This includes ice, dust, and gas, along with much larger objects like asteroids and comets. Jan Oort discovered the Oort Cloud which is much farther out (50000 AU from the sun) than the Kuiper Belt (30-50 AU from the sun). The Kuiper Belt is named after astronomer Gerard Kuiper for his theories on an area in the solar system past Pluto where short-period comets derived from.
While most of the 100,000 plus objects in the Kuiper Belt are composed primarily of ices, Pluto and the small planets in this region are rocky. Pluto is estimated to be 70 percent rock, and Eris, being 27 percent more massive, is likely more rocky and therefore more planet-like. Dr. Mike Brown is a professor of planetary astronomy at Caltech. He’s best known as the man who killed Pluto, thanks to his team’s discovery of Eris and other Kuiper Belt Objects. We asked him to help us explain this unusual region of our solar system.
Beyond the gas giant Neptune lies a region of space filled with icy bodies. Known as the Kuiper Belt, this chilly expanse holds trillions of objects, remnants of the early solar system. Dutch astronomer Jan Oort first proposed in 1950 that some comets might come from the the solar system’s far suburbs. Two more dwarf planets, Haumea and Makemake, were discovered in the Kuiper Belt in 2008. Because of their small size and distant location, Kuiper Belt Objects are a challenge to spot from Earth.
Kuiper Belt. The Kuiper belt is a region between about 30 and 50 AU from the Sun in the plane of the ecliptic. It is believed to be where most of the trans-Neptunian objects are, including Pluto and several other recently discovered dwarf planets. It is also thought to be the origin of many of the solar system's short-period comets.
The Kuiper-Edgeworth Belt is named for the astronomers Gerard Kuiper, who theorized about a disk of material in the outer reaches of the solar system, and Kenneth Edgeworth, who had the idea that the outer solar system contained a number of small bodies, perhaps left over from the formation of the Sun and planets. The Kuiper Belt extends from roughly the orbit of Neptune (at 30 AU out to about 55 astronomical units from the Sun. The main body of this belt covers much of this region, ranging from nearly 40 AU to 48 AU.
The Kuiper Belt is a region beyond Neptune in which an assortment of the solar system's refuse from planet-making orbits the sun. This includes ice, dust, and gas, along with … much larger objects like asteroids and comets. Jan Oort discovered the Oort Cloud which is much farther out (50000 AU from the sun) than the Kuiper Belt (30-50 AU from the sun). The Kuiper Belt is named after astronomer Gerard Kuiper for his theories on an area in the solar system past Pluto where short-period comets derived from.
Pluto is likely the largest and most-massive member of the Kuiper belt and the largest and the second-most-massive known TNO, surpassed only by Eris in the scattered disc. Originally considered a planet, Pluto's status as part of the Kuiper belt caused it to be reclassified as a dwarf planet in 2006. 