ppe  (2.18) The value of  varies between 0 and 1. At the limits when  = 0, the pore pressure has no effect on the behavior of the rock, and when = 1 the pore pressure is 100% effective in counteracting the applied load. = 1 is used to evaluate the failure magnitude, while Eq. (2.18) is used to evaluate the deformation of the porous medium. In liquid-saturated compressible rocks, B = 1.0; when the porous space is partially saturated, be estimated from, )fl/ cm(1 c1B  (2.21) where c m and c fl are the compressibilities of the rock and fluids(water) in the void space, respectively.
Characteristics of compaction drive reservoirs. Compaction drives characteristically exhibit elevated rock compressibilities, often 10 to 50 times greater than normal. Rock compressibility is called pore volume (PV), or pore, compressibility and is expressed in units of PV change per unit PV per unit pressure change. Rock compressibility is a function of pressure. Normal compressibilities range from 3 to 8 × 10 –6 psi –1 at pressures greater than approximately 1,000 psia. In contrast, elevated rock compressibilities can reach as high as 150 × 10 –6 psi –1 or higher at comparable pressures.
This book is a comprehensive treatment of the elastic volumetric response of sandstones to variations in stress. The theory and data presented apply to the deformations that occur, for example, due to withdrawal of fluid from a reservoir, or due to the redistribution of stresses caused by the drilling of a borehole. Part One concerns the effect of stress on deformation and discusses porous rock compressibility coefficients. Elasticity theory is used to derive relationships between the porous rock compressibility coefficients, the porosity, and the mineral grain compressibility.
(2.23) reduces to; epdPdVbbV1cm (2.24) which is defined as the grain or matrix compressibility, c m, the change in volume of individual rock grains, with respect to a change in pressure at constant temperature. Typically matrix compressibility is small and frequently ignored. In liquid-saturated compressible rocks, B = 1.0; when the porous space is partially saturated, be estimated from, )fl/ cm(1 c1B  (2.21) where c m and c fl are the compressibilities of the rock and fluids(water) in the void space, respectively.
For the topological property, see Incompressible surface. In thermodynamics and fluid mechanics, compressibility is a measure of the relative volume change of a fluid or solid as a response to a pressure (or mean stress) change. where V is volume and p is pressure. The inverse of the compressibility is called the bulk modulus, often denoted K (sometimes B). That page also contains some examples for different materials. The compressibility equation relates the isothermal compressibility (and indirectly the pressure) to the structure of the liquid.
Estimate the total reservoir compressibility for a sandstone formation that is characterized by a porosity of 25%. The reservoir is undersaturated (i.e., no initial gas cap is present) and the oil and water saturations are 70 and 30%, respectively. 
Importance  Formation comppy gressibility can have a significant impact on reservoir performance  Subsidence can have significant environmental impact  Typypes  Matrix Compressibility (C m): relative change in volume of solid rock material (grain volume) per unit pressure change (usually C m ≅0). Overburden pressure depends on: depth, structure, consolidation of the formation, gggg yeologic age and history of the rock. Overburden Pressure and Rock Compressibility. Pore pressure and effective overburden pressure: The weight of the overburden simply applies a compressive force to the reservoir.
is the porosity of the material (dimensionless ratio between 0 and 1). is the compressibility of the bulk aquifer material (m 2 N −1 or [LM −1 T 2 ]), and. is the compressibility of water (m 2 N −1 or [LM −1 T 2 ]). The compressibility terms relate a given change in stress to a change in volume (a strain). is the mass of water released from storage ([M]); and. is the decline in hydraulic head ([L]). Volumetric specific storage (or volume specific storage) is the volume of water that an aquifer releases from storage, per volume of aquifer, per unit decline in hydraulic head (Freeze and Cherry, 1979):
Formation Compressibility (c f). The formation compressibility is the change in rock volume per unit volume per unit change in pressure. The formation, even though it is a solid material, is compressible. The formation compressibility is used in the calculation of total compressibility (ct) . It is of the same order of magnitude as the oil compressibility (co) or the water compressibility (cw) , approximately 10 -6 1 / psi. Thus, in the absence of gas saturation (Sg) , the formation compressibility is relatively significant and must not be ignored. 