Rapport. Rapport /raˈpor,raˈpôr-/ (rə): Noun a close and harmonious relationship in which the people or groups concerned understand each'other s feelings or ideas and communicate. well Anyone in the mental health field can tell you that rapport is the foundation of a strong working relationship between a counselor and client. It can be considered the crucial first step in seeing client progress and should be built with care.
Rapport in the Online Counseling Relationship. Rapport may be the single most important aspect of a counseling relationship. It has been found to increase client interest, motivation, and comfort, all which contribute to clinical efficacy. Rapport is found to correlate with therapist clinical experience. Rapport is highest when therapists use few encouraging statements (e.g., “uh huh,” “hmm,” etc.) and many empathetic responses. Rapport is associated with counselor verbosity and with counselors who verbally engage clients.
Rapport. Rapport /raˈpor,raˈpôr-/ (rə): Noun a close and harmonious relationship in which the people or groups concerned understand each'other s feelings or ideas and communicate. Well: synonyms, affinity close, relationship mutual, understanding, bond and (Empathy Oxford Pocket). dictionary Anyone in the mental health field can tell you that rapport is the foundation of a strong working relationship between a counselor and client. It can be considered the crucial first step in seeing client progress and should be built with care.
For other uses, see Rapport (disambiguation) . Rapport is a close and harmonious relationship in which the people or groups concerned understand each other's feelings or ideas and communicate well. 
Establishing Rapport with a Client. To work well with a client we need to establish rapport with him or her. Rapport is important, whatever model of counselling the counsellor is working with. Unless a client feels a sense of rapport, they will be unlikely to be able to work well with the counsellor. Rapport means a sense of having connection with the person. Rapport will be helped and facilitated by how the counsellor manages his or her own feelings towards the client, and how s/he behaves with the c
However, when looking at what facilitates rapport in counseling, of significance are verbal behaviors. Greater amounts of silence (4% to 20%) are found in relationships perceived by clients as having high rapport. Online counseling is always available to help you out. Restating the clients words, with attention to feelings, increases rapport. And highest rapport exists when minimal talk is about the counselors own interpretations. All this, of course, is possible with Counseling. Take help from internet counseling.
Rapport is not only a warm, relaxed relationship between individuals, it is a goal of a therapist with regards to his or her client. Rapport is a major step toward deepening the therapeutic experience and promoting progress toward the goals set out for the client. 
Rapport is found to correlate with therapist clinical experience. Rapport is highest when therapists use few encouraging statements (e.g., uh huh, hmm, etc.) and many empathetic responses. Rapport is associated with counselor verbosity and with counselors who verbally engage clients. Restating the clients words, with attention to feelings, increases rapport. And highest rapport exists when minimal talk is about the counselors own interpretations. All this, of course, is possible with Counseling. Take help from internet counseling.
Rapport may be the single most important aspect of a counseling relationship. It has been found to increase client interest, motivation, and comfort, all which contribute to clinical efficacy. Restating the clients words, with attention to feelings, increases rapport. And highest rapport exists when minimal talk is about the counselors own interpretations. All this, of course, is possible with Counseling. Take help from internet counseling.