Need help. I will be traveling business class on jet airways from Delhi-London reaching London in the evening. I leave next day morning in American airlines flight to dfw. I do not have a uk visa so can't go out of immigration in London so am planning to spend the night inside airport. 
We like the morning Continental/Virgin flight from Newark to London Heathrow. You get in at about 8 pm, go out for dinner, and are soon ready for bed-you are tired since you got up so early in the morning to make your 8 am flight in the states. Option 1) Take a flight from the US overnight and connect somewhere but go directly to your final destination. Option 2) Take a day flight to London, spend a night in a hotel there, then get up early again the next morning to get to another airport and f
We have taken flights from the NY airports and Boston to London., staying overnight at Heathrow and connecting on to Continental Europe in the morning. We never have any jet lag and love these flights. Because they leave the US at 8-8:30 am, you need to get early on departure day and are tired enough to sleep. Option 1) Take a flight from the US overnight and connect somewhere but go directly to your final destination. Option 2) Take a day flight to London, spend a night in a hotel there, then get up early again the next morning to get to another airport and f
Night flights: the present position at Heathrow “night” is defined by government as 11pm – 7am, but the “night quota” only runs from 11.30pm – 6am (it is only during this period that restrictions apply) between 11.30pm and 6am, on an average night, 16 flights are permitted. It says that at night the maximum noise from a passing aircraft should be no more than 60 decibels. That would rule out all night flights at Heathrow. The Government has signed up to the WHO recommendations. It should either adhere to them or explain why it is bypassing them.
· just now. Report Abuse. It depends on the specific airport, but the general answer is no, unless the airport has 24 hour operations, and even then they close the gates, you might be able to find something in the baggage claim area if they have seats (a lot do not). BTW, I do not recommend sleeping outside of the secured area. Best Answer: As the others have said, it depends on the airport. Luckily there is a website just for people like you: http://www.sleepinginairports.net/ You are slightly safer airside but there is still a risk.
McGinnis' trip began with an early morning flight from Atlanta to Newark, where he caught Flight 18, operated jointly by Virgin Atlantic and Continental. He got to London's Gatwick airport at 10 p.m. local time, went to his hotel and turned in for the night. He felt fresh for his meetings the next day. Only nine take off in the morning and get you there in the evening, London time. Of the morning departures, five leave from New York's John F. Kennedy Airport, two from Boston's Logan, and one each from Newark and Chicago's O'Hare. There are no morning departures to any other European cit
Jumping into this thread, we too have a 7 AM flight from Heathrow. Being in texasbookworm's camp regarding early arrivals at an airport, we are splurging on the previous night at the Sofitel at Terminal 5. (I'm not a morning person. For early morning flights we always book a car service www.justairports.com I think they are about the same as 2 tickets on the Heathrow Express and you dont have to worry about schlepping luggage.
Usually when I have a really early flight, I priceline a LHR hotel for the last night and head out there after dinner or a show. You don't lose any usable 'London time' since you'd have to leave so early no matter which mode of travel in the morning. LHR hotels on PL are a major bargain. For early morning flights we always book a car service www.justairports.com I think they are about the same as 2 tickets on the Heathrow Express and you dont have to worry about schlepping luggage.
During the night, when most of the rail and coach links (and the flights!) have stopped operating, one of the few ways you can get to & from Heathrow is by using the N9 night bus service, which operates to & from Aldwych in Central London via Hammersmith. Every 30 minutes direct to London Victoria Coach Station, National Express [8] run a direct coach service from Heathrow Central Bus Station to London Victoria Coach Station every 30 minutes. Journey time is 40 to 50 minutes and fares are available from £4 if bought on the internet.