The Committee on Public Information (CPI), also known as the Creel Committee, organized publicity on behalf of U.S. objectives during World War I. In 1917, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson tapped muckraking journalist George Creel [1] to head the CPI. 
The Committee on Public Information (CPI) was a government agency established in the United States during World War I with the aim of supporting the war effort. It was created by executive order shortly after the United States entered the war in 1917 and was shuttered in 1919 with the cessation of hostilities. While the committee was ostensibly established for the purpose of providing members of the public with information about the war effort, it was in effect a propaganda agency.
Composition: The Committee has 15 Senators: eight from the majority party and seven from the minority. The one-seat majority is dictated by Senate resolution and, unlike most other committees, does not change in proportion with the overall Senate ratio of majority to minority membership. 1 Confirmations: The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Senate for the President’s nominees to serve in intelligence positions requiring the Senate’s confirmation.
Welcome from the the Joint University Council's Public Administration Committee. The Public Administration Committ ee (PAC) is an active academic and practitioner community which seeks to advance knowledge and learning in the area o f public policy, public administration and public management. 
One aspect of the committee's work was censorship of potentially damaging material, and the committee maintained a stranglehold on the kind of material from the war that could be released to the public. The other arm of the Committee on Public Information's work involved generating propaganda materials. While the committee was ostensibly established for the purpose of providing members of the public with information about the war effort, it was in effect a propaganda agency.
This committee’s web pages have now been archived. The Public Administration Select Committee was established by the House of Commons in June 2010 for the duration of the 2010-2015 Parliament. Its remit was to consider matters relating to the quality and standards of administration within the Civil Service. On 3 June 2015 the House of Commons approved changes to Standing Orders to establish a Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee with a remit to examine: a) reports of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman and connected matters.
Select Committees work in both Houses. They check and report on areas ranging from the work of government departments to economic affairs. The results of these inquiries are public and many require a response from the government. The government then usually has 60 days to reply to the committee's recommendations. Some Select Committees have a role that crosses departmental boundaries such as the Public Accounts or Environmental Audit Committees. Depending on the issue under consideration they can look at any or all of the government departments.
The Committee on Public Information was formally disestablished by an act of Congress on June 30, 1919, although the organization's work had been formally completed months before. In no degree was the Committee an agency of censorship, a machinery of concealment or repression. Its emphasis throughout was on the open and the positive. At no point did it seek or exercise authorities under those war laws that limited the freedom of speech and press.
A French caricature of members of the Committee of Public Safety. The Committee of Public Safety (French, Du Comite de Salut Public) has become a powerful symbol of the French Revolution. Formed in April 1793, the Committee was intended to function as a war council and de facto executive cabinet. 