Cladistics is a system of classifying organisms by their evolutionary histories. The organisms are grouped based on whether or not they share a particular characteristic with the group's most recent ancestor. Learn more at 23andme.com. An out-group is the organism in a cladogram that is the starting point and usually does not have any common characteristics with the other organisms in the cladogram.
In biology, cladistics (from ancient Greek κλάδος, klados, branch; originally called phylogenetic systematics) is a taxonomical technique for arranging organisms according to how they branch in the evolutionary tree of life. 
Definition of CLADISTICS. : a system of biological taxonomy that defines taxa uniquely by shared characteristics not found in ancestral groups and uses inferred evolutionary relationships to arrange taxa in a branching hierarchy such that all members of a given taxon have the same ancestors.
A clade in tree form: Progoneata is a clade of millipides including Symphyla, Pauropoda and Diplopoda. Cladistics is the method of classifying organisms into groups called clades. A clade (Greek = branch) is a group of organisms with a common ancestor and all its descendants (and nothing else). Such a clade is monophyletic. 
Robert John Tillyard. The original methods used in cladistic analysis and the school of taxonomy derived from the work of the German entomologist Willi Hennig, who referred to it as phylogenetic systematics (also the title of his 1966 book); the terms cladistics and clade were popularized by other researchers. 
Noun. 1. cladistics-a system of biological taxonomy based on the quantitative analysis of comparative data and used to reconstruct cladograms summarizing the (assumed) phylogenetic relations and evolutionary history of groups of organisms. cladistic analysis
4. Advantages of Cladistics. Cladistics is a method of deriving possible family trees, or cladograms, from a set of specimens. It works by measuring the states that a selected set of characters take in each of the specimens, and finding the trees in which the fewest transitions occur between different states. 
Reconstructing trees: Cladistics. Cladistics is a method of hypothesizing relationships among organisms  in other words, a method of reconstructing evolutionary trees. The basis of a cladistic analysis is data on the characters, or traits, of the organisms in which we are interested