If you are using Manually Manage Music or Videos, disable the option in the Syncing Summary tab. To sync a PDF from your computer to iBooks on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  Select your iOS device. ( 2 Learn how to sync your data with iTunes 3  .). Click the Books tab. 4  Select Sync Books. 5  If iTunes is set to sync only selected books, select the checkbox next to the PDF you want to sync. 6  Click Sync
1 Plug iPad into computer via the USB cable. 2  The software will recognize your iPad and shows the icon of it at the upper right corner. 3  After adding the PDF files into library, you need to click the icon of your iPad, and choose “Books” in the summary panel. 4  Then check “Sync from” and choose the PDF files in the window. 1 After adding the PDF files into library, you need to click the icon of your iPad, and choose “Books” in the summary panel. 2  Then check “Sync from” and choose the PDF files in the window. 3  iTunes will start syncing the PDF files into your iPad. 4  After that, you will find the PDF files in the iBooks app on your iPad
If the iPad users have installed iBooks on their iPad, they are able to buy books in iTunes Store, and then read the books with iBooks app on iPad. The iPad users are also able to transfer PDF files to iPad with iTunes, and the tutorial is as follows. 1  Plug iPad into computer via the USB cable. 2  The software will recognize your iPad and shows the icon of it at the upper right corner. 1 After adding the PDF files into library, you need to click the icon of your iPad, and choose “Books” in the summary panel. 2  Then check “Sync from” and choose the PDF files in the window. 3  iTunes will start syncing the PDF files into your iPad. 4  After that, you will find the PDF files in the iBooks app on your iPad
In your Mac (or PC I guess) drop your PDF files to your iTunes library. Then connect your iPad to your Mac and choose it in iTunes. On the top menu choose Books then Sync Books. Select the PDF you want to sync and then click on sync lower button ... Vuola´ the PDF files are now in your iBook PDF section in you iPad ... Level 1 (0 points). Now I understood this right, this is how to transfer PDF files to your iPad or iPhone from your iMac with Maverick: 1. On your iMac open iBooks and drop your PDF files. 2. Connect your iPad / iPhone to your iMac and open iTunes. 3. Select on iTunes your iPad / iPhone. 4. On the the menu choose Books. 5. Check Sync Books (all or selected as you wish). 6
Level 10 (114,685 points). Other ways of PDFs onto your iPad are via the file sharing section at the bottom of the iPad's apps tab in your computer's iTunes (assuming that your PDF app supports file sharing). Some apps also support transfer via your wifi network from your computer to iPad. 
Add PDF to iTunes. Step 2. Transfer PDF files to iPad Air/Mini via iTunes. Now it’s time to transfer the PDF to iPad through iTunes sync. Connect your iPad Air/mini with your computer through the USB cable. Select your iPad under the “Devices” section in iTunes. Click on the “Books” tab near the top of the screen. You can import the PDF files from computers to iPad Air, iPad mini, iPad 3 and other models. Check out this guide if you want to download a PDF from website to your iPad. Continue reading if you need to add PDF files from your PC / Mac to iPad Air, iPad mini, iPad 3 and other iPhone models. Download PDF Version.
First, open iTunes on your PC and navigate to the Books section. Click on the “PDFs” tab and drag drop any PDF file from your PC to the open iTunes window. Connect the iPad or iPhone and click on the device button once it appears in iTunes. Click the “Books” tab and make sure “Sync books” is checked. Start CopyTrans Apps and connect the iPad or iPhone to your PC. Once the iPad apps populate the left-hand side of the program window, select the PDF reading app. From the right-hand side, click on the “Add documents” button. A new window opens allowing you to browse for the PDF files you want to add to the iPad.
To sync a PDF from your computer to iBooks on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  Select your iOS device. 2  Click the Books tab. 3  Select Sync Books. 4  If iTunes is set to sync only selected books, select the checkbox next to the PDF you want to sync. 5  Click Sync. To sync a PDF from your computer to iBooks on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  Select your iOS device. ( 2 Learn how to sync your data with iTunes 3  .). Click the Books tab. 4