Deer mostly don't like iris, but some will eat them. If you get a young one around, they try everything. They really like bean plants, pepper plants, tulips, fruit trees, and daylilies more than iris. The deer do not like rhizome at all, but they will eat the leaves. Unfortunately they sometimes yank the rhizome out of the ground, eat the leaves and spit the rhizome...wherever! It is usually in one piece with no bites, but I find it laying in a strange bed, nameless and lost.
For instance, anything poisonous, such as Foxgloves, Florida Anise, or Daffodils. Other deer-resistant plants are: Ageratum, Iris, Barberry (they usually won't eat anything with thorns), Buddleia, Mock Orange, Spirea, Lilacs, Dogwood, Magnolia, Boxwood, Holly, Leucothoe, Pieris, and Yucca. See, there are many plants deer won't eat--although when they get truly hungry, they'll taste of anything! 2. I know you also want to grow many plants that deer do like; as gardeners, we don't want to limit ourselves to the few plants deer won't eat. Deer will eat just about anything, when they are truly hungry.
Here is the listing of the plants which the deer do not seem to like well enough to severely damage by eating. However this list must be caveated like others I have seen; deer can't read and when they are hungry, they will eat almost anything. 
Northern-hardy perennials and shrubs that deer usually do not eat. This list of deer-resistant plants includes descriptions and photos. Order the plants right here and make your dream garden a nightmare for deer! Also, control deer damage with 8'-tall black mesh deer fencing and with deer repellents. 
It is the bearded irises deer won't eat and they usually are not planted by seed. I can vouch for deer not eating bearded irises...there are very few plants deer truly won't eat (unless they are starving) but bearded irises are one of them. Now if only I can convince the gophers irises aren't palatable! My local white-tailed deer eat bearded iris foliage anytime their natural browse is not available. They don't tend to bother my beardless irises much, though *something* was nipping off buds this summer. In any event, white tails will definitely graze on bearded irises up here.
1 Daffodils, foxgloves, and poppies are common flowers that have a toxicity that deer avoid. 2  Deer also turn their noses up at fragrant plants with strong scents. 3  Herbs such as sages, ornamental salvias, lavenders, peonies, and bearded irises are just “stinky” to deer. Which plants do deer dislike? 1  Not surpisingly, deer stay away from poisonous plants 2  ! Deer also turn their noses up at fragrant plants with strong scents. 3  Would you want to eat something prickly? 4  Our favorite deer-resistant perennials are bleeding hearts (Dicentra spectabilis).
I usually see lots of deer year round except for this time of year. I have iris planted down in the holler about 75 feet from the salt lick and the corn 9 as many as 6 or 7 deers will be down there eating corn everyday) but they never touch the iris. But then they never eat any of my plants. My local white-tailed deer eat bearded iris foliage anytime their natural browse is not available. They don't tend to bother my beardless irises much, though *something* was nipping off buds this summer. In any event, white tails will definitely graze on bearded irises up here.
We have loads of deer around here & the only time they have ever tried my iris is first thing in the spring, when the irises are just starting leaves & almost the only new green thing in sight. Besides daffodil leaves, which are toxic. As it is just a bite or two here & there, I don't mind that much. The deer do not like rhizome at all, but they will eat the leaves. Unfortunately they sometimes yank the rhizome out of the ground, eat the leaves and spit the rhizome...wherever! It is usually in one piece with no bites, but I find it laying in a strange bed, nameless and lost.
I should not have said that the deer don't eat my yellow iris. They just ate, to the ground, over a hundred yellow iris plants that are along the end of my driveway. The deer do not like rhizome at all, but they will eat the leaves. Unfortunately they sometimes yank the rhizome out of the ground, eat the leaves and spit the rhizome...wherever! It is usually in one piece with no bites, but I find it laying in a strange bed, nameless and lost.
Trapping and relocating deer is costly and often harmful or fatal to deer. If deer are overabundant in your neighborhood, and deer herd reduction or management is not feasible, a good way to prevent deer browsing in landscapes is to plant ornamental plants that deer do not like to eat. 