Keratosis refers to a group of skin disorders that are caused by abnormal growth of keratin, which is a key structural protein found in the skin, hair and nails. It is most commonly found on areas of the skin that are exposed to the sun, such as the face, back of the hands, forearms, scalp, or neck. Symptoms of actinic keratosis include: 1  A dry or rough patch of skin (usually less than one inch in diameter). 2  A flat to slightly raised patch of skin.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Keratosis pilaris (KP) (also follicular keratosis, lichen pilaris, or colloquially chicken skin) is a common, autosomal dominant, genetic follicular condition characterized by the appearance of rough, slightly red, bumps on the skin. Keratosis pilaris results in small bumps on the skin that feel like rough sandpaper. They are skin-colored bumps the size of a grain of sand, many of which are surrounded by a slight pink color in light skinned people and dark spots in dark skinned people.
Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! Seborrheic keratosis: A common skin disorder that is characterized by benign, painless, often wart-like skin lesions that appear to be 'stuck on.' The raised spots are usually yellow or brown. Treatment, if warranted, involves surgical or cryo-surgical removal. Also known as seborrheic warts and verruca. STAY INFORMED. Seborrheic keratosis: A common skin disorder that is characterized by benign, painless, often wart-like skin lesions that appear to be 'stuck on.' The raised spots are usually yellow or brown.
Keratosis Pilaris. Keratosis pilaris is a common skin condition that is often inherited and is characterized by the appearance of rough and small acne-like bumps. These bumps are usually white and most commonly found on the arms, thighs and buttocks. Keratosis pilaris usually affects young children, although it may occur at any age. It is most commonly found on areas of the skin that are exposed to the sun, such as the face, back of the hands, forearms, scalp, or neck. Symptoms of actinic keratosis include: 1  A dry or rough patch of skin (usually less than one inch in diameter). 2  A flat to slightly raised patch of skin.
Keratosis Pilaris (KP) is a very common and completely harmless skin condition. In the population as a whole, keratosis pilaris may affect as many as one person in three. Its name gives some idea of what it is. 
Keratosis (from keratinocyte, the prominent cell type in the epidermis, and-osis, abnormal) is a growth of keratin on the skin or on mucous membranes. More specifically, it can refer to: 1  actinic keratosis (also known as solar keratosis). 2  hydrocarbon keratosis. 3  keratosis pilaris (KP, also known as follicular keratosis). 
any horny growth, such as a wart or callosity. actinic keratosis a sharply outlined wartlike or keratotic growth, which may develop into a cutaneous horn, and may become malignant; it usually occurs in the middle aged or elderly and is due to excessive exposure to the sun. Called also senile or solar keratosis. (See Atlas 3, Part F). keratosis. 1. Growth of the horny layer of the skin; a callus, callosity, or keratoma. 2. Any condition of the skin characterized by the formation of horny growths or excessive development of the horny growth.
An actinic keratosis, also known as a solar keratosis, is a scaly or crusty growth (lesion). It most often appears on the bald scalp, face, ears, lips, backs of the hands and forearms, shoulders, neck or any other areas of the body frequently exposed to the sun. 
Knowledge center. Seborrheic keratosis is a very common harmless, usually pigmented, noncancerous growth on the skin. It usually appears as a pale, black or brown growth on the back, shoulders chest or face, but can appear anywhere on the skin. The plural of keratosis is keratoses. 