The substantia nigra, along with four other nuclei, is part of the basal ganglia. It is the largest nucleus in the midbrain, lying dorsal to the cerebral peduncles. Humans have two substantiae nigrae, one on each side of the midline. The most prominent function of the pars compacta is motor control, though the substantia nigra's role in motor control is indirect; electrical stimulation of the substantia nigra does not result in movement, due to mediation of the striatum in the nigral influence of movement.
The pars reticulata of the substantia nigra is an important processing center in the basal ganglia. The GABAergic neurons in the pars reticulata convey the final processed signals of the basal ganglia to the thalamus and superior colliculus. The most prominent function of the pars compacta is motor control, though the substantia nigra's role in motor control is indirect; electrical stimulation of the substantia nigra does not result in movement, due to mediation of the striatum in the nigral influence of movement.
The dopamine (DA) system of the dorsal striatal pathway projecting from the substantia nigra pars compacta (A9) to the dorsal part of the striatum (motor striatum) functions in the control of speed and dexterity of movement. 
The nigrostriatal pathway, or the nigrostriatal bundle (NSB), is a dopaminergic pathway that connects the substantia nigra with the dorsal striatum. This pathway is also implicated in producing tardive dyskinesia, one of the side-effects of antipsychotic drugs. These medications (in particular the older typical antipsychotics) block D 2 dopamine receptors in multiple pathways in the brain.
It is one of the four major dopamine pathways in the brain, and is particularly involved in the production of movement, as part of a system called the basal ganglia motor loop. Dopamine releasing neurons of this pathway release several other neurotransmitters, including glutamate and GABA. Loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra is one of the main pathological features of Parkinson's disease, leading to a marked reduction in dopamine function in this pathway. This pathway is also implicated in producing tardive dyskinesia, one of the side-effects of antipsychotic drugs. These medications (in particular the older typical antipsychotics) block D 2 dopamine receptors in multiple pathways in the brain.
In contrast to the pyramidal tract, the extrapyramidal tract is an indirect, multisynaptic tract. Components of the extrapyramidal tract include the basal ganglia, the red nucleus, the substantia nigra, the reticular formation and the cerebellum. All of these structures send information to the lower motor neurons. They are unable to leave the central nervous system. The pyramidal tract is a very important upper motor neuron tract. The extrapyramidal tract also consists of upper motor neurons, and is multi synaptic.
Substantia nigra is Latin for black substance, reflecting the fact that parts of the substantia nigra appear darker than neighboring areas due to high levels of neuromelanin in dopaminergic neurons. It was discovered in 1784 by Felix Félix-vicq'D, azyr And Samuel thomas Von soemmerring sömmerring alluded to this structure. in 1791 The most prominent function of the pars compacta is motor control, though the substantia nigra's role in motor control is indirect; electrical stimulation of the substantia nigra does not result in movement, due to mediation of the striatum in the nigral influence of movement.
1 The nigrostriatal system contains about 80% of the brain’s dopamine. 2  This tract projects from cell bodies in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra to terminals that innervate the striatum (caudate and putamen). 3  This pathway is involved in motor planning, dopaminergic neurons stimulate purposeful movement. The four pathways relevant to the pharmacology of antipsychotics in the treatment of schizophrenia are: – The mesolimbic pathway (positive symptoms). – The mesocortical pathway (negative symptoms). – The nigrostriatal pathway (extrapyramidal symptoms and tardive dyskinesia).
The substantia nigra is a small brain region located at the basis of the mesencephalon. It comprises two major sub-regions, the pars compacta (SNc), made up of dopaminergic neurons, and the pars reticulata that comprises GABAergic cells. 
Neurons of the nigrostriatal system originate in the substantia nigra and terminate in the caudate nucleus and putamen, which are both located in the midbrain. The nigrostriatal system plays an important role in the control of movement. Dopamine is an important neurotransmitter found naturally in the brain. Dopamine (and norepinephrine) belongs to a subcategory of monoamines called catecholamines. The chemical structure of dopamine is C 8 H 11 NO 2 as is depicted in the picture above.