The force (F) required to lift the piston, will be the weight of the piston and pump rods (Wp), plus the weight of the column of water having a cross section equal to the piston area and a height equal to the head (H). There is also a dynamic load which is the force needed to accelerate these masses. 
Axial-piston pumps consist of a set of pistons that are fitted within a cylinder block and driven by an angled swash plate powered by the input shaft. As the swash plate rotates, the pistons reciprocate in their respective cylinder block bores to provide the pumping action. Vane-type pumps can handle inlet vacuum up to 6 in.-Hg (152.4 mm-Hg) and piston-type pumps up to 4 in.-Hg (101.6 mm-Hg). Noise and Vibration Vane-type pumps are the quietest and most vibration-free followed by piston-and gear-type pumps in that order.
Analysis on the friction losses of a bent-axis type hydraulic piston pump. 1  Yeh-Sun HongAffiliated withSchool of Aeronautical & Mechanical Engineering, Hankuk Aviation University Email author. , 2  Yoon-Ho DohAffiliated withSchool of Aeronautical & Mechanical Engineering, Hankuk Aviation University. The design of an axial piston pump for electro-hydrostatic transmission systems requires accurate information where and how much the internal friction and flow losses are produced.
In this paper, it is shown that the viscous friction forces on the valve plate and input shaft bearing are the primary source of the friction losses of the bent-axis type pump, while the friction forces and moments on the piston are of little significance. The design of an axial piston pump for electro-hydrostatic transmission systems requires accurate information where and how much the internal friction and flow losses are produced.
Engine efficiency of thermal engines is the relationship between the total energy contained in the fuel, and the amount of energy used to perform useful work. There are two classifications of thermal engines-. The efficiency of engine is defined as ratio of the useful work done to the heat provided. where, is the heat absorbed and is the work done.
An axial piston pump is a positive displacement pump that has a number of pistons in a circular array within a cylinder block. An axial piston pump has a number of pistons (usually an odd number) arranged in a circular array within a housing which is commonly referred to as a cylinder block, rotor or barrel.
Pumping loss  Gas exchange system (air filter, intake, throttle, valves, exhaust pipes, after-treatment device, muffler) Engine fluid flow* (coolant, oil) *Have to be careful to avoid double-counting. The engine coolant and oil flow losses are provided for by the oil and water pump. 
Control losses occur on the discharge side of a centrifugal pump that has been equipped with a backpressure valve to control flow rate. As the liquid flows through the control valve, energy is lost. Next to static head, control losses are frequently the most important factor in calculating the pump’s total dynamic head. A pump can be defined as “a mechanical device that adds energy to a fluid to increase its flow rate and static pressure.” This process can be accomplished with positive displacement pumps or kinetic-energy pumps.
Over the intake stroke, the piston is being acted upon * by the intake manifold pressure (vacuum) minus (even more vacuum) pressure drop across the intake valve/port. On the exhaust stroke it is being acted upon * by the exhaust manifold pressure PLUS pressure drop across the exhaust valve/port. Both of these strokes are thus resisting the motion of the crank, and therefore absorbing power. This power goes toward heating the air that is pumped through the engine. This is pumping loss. Since exhaust manifold pressure (assuming a decent exhaust system) is typically near ambient, pumping loss is mostly a function of intake vacuum. 