Portland cement is the most common type of cement in general use around the world, used as a basic ingredient of concrete, mortar, stucco, and most non-speciality grout. It was developed from other types of hydraulic lime in England in the mid 19th century and usually originates from limestone. Portland cement clinker is a hydraulic material which shall consist of at least two-thirds by mass of calcium silicates (3 CaO·SiO2 and 2 CaO·SiO2), the remainder consisting of aluminium-and iron-containing clinker phases and other compounds.
1.Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) is the most common cement used in the world because of the abundance and low cost to produce it. 2.Portland Pozzolana Cement (PPC) is a variation of OPC which includes a mixture of a pozzuolanic material which can increase the strength of the concrete and reduce the amount of OPC used.
ORDINARY PORTLAND CEMENT (OPC). Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) is the most common cement used in general concrete construction when there is no exposure to sulphates in the soil or groundwater. 
OPC (Ordinary Portland Cement) is the basic form of cement with 95% of it being the clinker and 5% being gypsum which is added as an additive to enhance the setting time of the cement to a workable 30 minutes odd or so. Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) and Portland Pozzolana cement (PPC) differ primarily in their composition ultimately affecting its applicability. PPC commonly has pozzolan material added to cement (either before clinkering or added to ground clinker). Pozzolan commonly used is fly as and is put upto 15%.
10.6k Views. OPC typically means Ordinary Portland Cement. This is standard concrete used for many purposes. PPC mean Pozzolanic Portland Cement. Pozzolans are siliceous material than can be added to concrete mixtures, potentially lower the mix cost without harming the performance characteristics. Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) and Portland Pozzolana cement (PPC) differ primarily in their composition ultimately affecting its applicability. PPC commonly has pozzolan material added to cement (either before clinkering or added to ground clinker). Pozzolan commonly used is fly as and is put upto 15%.
OPC typically means O rdinary P ortland C ement. This is standard concrete used for many purposes. PPC mean P ozzolanic P ortland C ement. Pozzolans are siliceous material than can be added to concrete mixtures, potentially lower the mix cost without harming the performance characteristics. Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) and Portland Pozzolana cement (PPC) differ primarily in their composition ultimately affecting its applicability. PPC commonly has pozzolan material added to cement (either before clinkering or added to ground clinker). Pozzolan commonly used is fly as and is put upto 15%.
Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) [or other cementitious materials] has a property of hydraulic setting, binding and hardening when mixed with water. Some materials undergo hydraulic setting when combined with water in presence of cements, but not by itself. OPC is ordinary Portland cement and PPC is Portland pozolona cement. OPC is obtained by grinding clinker and gypsum whereas PPC is obtained by grinding clinker gypsum and hig … h reactive silica. High reactive silica improves the quality of cement by reducing liberated lime. + 28 others found this useful.
Best Answer: OPC is Ordinary Portland cement. More commonly known as Portland cement. Its the most common type of cement in general use around the world, because it is a basic ingredient of concrete, mortar, stucco and most non-specialty grout. 
Answers. Best Answer: PPC means Precast Prestressed concrete. OPC means Ordinary Portland Cement. Portland cement is the most common type of cement in general usage in many parts of the world, as it is a basic ingredient of concrete, mortar, stucco and most non-specialty grout. Source(s): balu · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.