If the laryngitis is from a viral or bacterial infection, it is possible that the specific virus or bacteria can be contagious. However, if the laryngitis is from laryngeal cancer or overuse of the voice, it is not contagious. 
Laryngitis is when the voice box or vocal cords become inflamed from overuse, irritation, or infection. There are two main types of laryngitis: chronic (long-term) and acute (short-term). The inflammation that causes laryngitis can be tied to a variety of conditions. 
Most cases of laryngitis are temporary and improve after the underlying cause gets better. Causes of acute laryngitis include: 1  Viral infections similar to those that cause a cold. 2  Vocal strain, caused by yelling or overusing your voice. 3  Bacterial infections, such as diphtheria, although this is rare, in large part due to increasing rates of vaccination. 
Acute laryngitis. The most common cause of laryngitis is a viral infection, often similar to those that cause the common cold or flu. Overusing the voice-cheering at an event, for example-can also cause inflammation of the larynx. In very rare instances, acute laryngitis can be caused by diphtheria, a bacterial infection. 1 Acute laryngitis usually lasts for no longer than 2 weeks. 2  Viral infections such as colds are the most common cause of laryngitis. 3  Other causes of laryngitis include vocal strain (yelling or talking a lot) and bacterial infections, such as diphtheria.
1 Other causes of laryngitis include vocal strain (yelling or talking a lot) and bacterial infections, such as diphtheria. 2  Chronic laryngitis is often caused by lifestyle factors, such as the continual exposure to irritants. 1 Acute laryngitis usually lasts for no longer than 2 weeks. 2  Viral infections such as colds are the most common cause of laryngitis. 3  Other causes of laryngitis include vocal strain (yelling or talking a lot) and bacterial infections, such as diphtheria.
Overview. Laryngitis occurs when your voice box (larynx) and vocal cords become swollen and irritated. This fairly common condition often causes hoarseness or loss of voice. A range of issues can cause laryngitis, including long-term smoking, acid reflux, voice overuse, or viral infections such as cold and flu viruses. Your risk increases if you have allergies or pneumonia, or if you regularly come in contact with irritating chemicals
Acute Laryngitis. Acute laryngitis is the most common cause of hoarseness and voice loss that starts suddenly. Most cases of acute laryngitis are caused by a viral infection that leads to swelling of the vocal cords. When the vocal cords swell, they vibrate differently, leading to hoarseness. 
Laryngitis is an inflammation of the larynx. It causes hoarse voice or temporary complete loss of the voice because of irritation to the vocal folds (vocal cords). Dysphonia is the medical term for a vocal disorder, of which laryngitis is one cause. Laryngitis is categorised as acute if it lasts less than three weeks and chronic if it last over three weeks. 
There are two types of laryngitis: acute laryngitis and chronic laryngitis. In acute laryngitis, which is the most common cause of voice loss and hoarseness, you suddenly lose your voice or become hoarse. Acute laryngitis can result from: 1  Viral infection. 2  Viral infections, such as those that cause the common cold, can cause your vocal cords to swell. 3  Bacterial throat infection. 4  Rarely, bacteria can infect the larynx, causing voice changes and difficulty breathing. 5  Voice strain.