5. Cancel. Borage oil is oil from the seed of the borago officinalis plant. It is a good source of gamma linolenic acid, which aids in regulating the inflammatory processes of the body. Add borage oil supplements to a diet to help with inflammatory conditions with tips from a wellness educator and herbal medicine specialist in this free video on alternative medicine.
PRO. 1  Borage oil, consisting of 17-25% gamma-linolenic acid, is an anti-inflammatory, dietary fatty acid found in many plant extracts. 2  Very little gamma-linolenic acid is found in the diet. 3  Borage and evening primrose oils are the most common sources used in studies. 1 Properly used borage oil seems to have an anti-inflammatory effect. 2  This potential is stronger in individuals with high dietary of omega-3 fatty acids prior to treatment with omega-6 gamma linolenic acid. 3  Borage oil is generally regarded as safe.
1 Borage oil, consisting of 17-25% gamma-linolenic acid, is an anti-inflammatory, dietary fatty acid found in many plant extracts. 2  Very little gamma-linolenic acid is found in the diet. 3  Borage and evening primrose oils are the most common sources used in studies. 1 Properly used borage oil seems to have an anti-inflammatory effect. 2  This potential is stronger in individuals with high dietary of omega-3 fatty acids prior to treatment with omega-6 gamma linolenic acid. 3  Borage oil is generally regarded as safe.
Borage Oil Benefits start with the makeup of the borage plant. Borage oil is one of the best sources of gamma linolenic acid, commonly referred to as GLA. GLA is an omega-6 fatty acid that’s converted to prostaglandin E1, a known anti-inflammatory agent. The main uses of borage oil products are on the hair and skin. Borage Oil is one of the few oils that actually penetrates into the skin to help repair the layers of cells deep within. Borage oil is one of the best sources of gamma linolenic acid, commonly referred to as GLA. Herbal medicine advocates recommend GLA for autoimmune disorders, arthritis, eczema, and PMS.
Today, the borage plant is grown and harvested not for its leaves and stems, but rather for the very valuable oil found in its seeds-borage oil. The great value of this oil is that it is the richest known source (24%) of an essential fatty acid called gamma-linolenic acid (GLA). It is here that the importance of borage oil with its rich source of gamma-linolenic acid becomes evident. Used as a dietary supplement or even applied topically, borage oil can circumvent a lazy or impaired D6D enzyme by supplying the body directly with GLA and thus allowing the production of normal levels of PG1.
What evening primrose and borage oils are: Evening primrose (Oenothera biennis), a yellow wildflower, yields an oil that is a popular supplement. Borage oil, a similar product, is derived from the seed of a plant (Borago officinalis) known variously as bee plant or starflower. 
Borage Oil Plant – “Starflower”. Borage, (borago officinalis) is a wildflower commonly called the “starflower”. It is native to the Mediterranean area. The leaves are edible ,but the plant is commercially grown and cultivated for borage seed oil extracted from the seeds. The seed oil is extracted and used as a source of gamma-linolenic acid (GLA). Borage Oil is one of the best sources of GLA. GLA is an essential fatty acid that converts into prostaglandin 1 (PG1), a key molecule for maintaining healthy skin and other healthy balances within our bodies.
Borage Oil Benefits start with the makeup of the borage plant. Borage oil is one of the best sources of gamma linolenic acid, commonly referred to as GLA. GLA is an omega-6 fatty acid that's converted to prostaglandin E1, a known anti-inflammatory … [Continue reading]. Borage Oil is one of the best sources of GLA. GLA is an essential fatty acid that converts into prostaglandin 1 (PG1), a key molecule for maintaining healthy skin and other healthy balances within our bodies.
Borage is a plant. Its flowers and leaves, as well as the oil from its seeds are used as medicine. Borage seed oil is used for skin disorders including eczema, seborrheic dermatitis, and neurodermatitis. NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory medications used to decrease pain and swelling. Borage seed oil is also used as an anti-inflammatory medication. Sometimes NSAIDs and borage seed oil are used together for rheumatoid arthritis.
Borage seed oil is derived from the seeds of the Borago officinalis (borage). Borage seed oil has one of the highest amounts of γ-linolenic acid (GLA) of seed oils — higher than blackcurrant seed oil or evening primrose oil, to which it is considered similar. GLA typically comprises about 24% of the oil. 