Kunzite is the pink to light purple gem variety of the mineral Spodumene. Spodumene is a common mineral, but only in several localities does it occur in transparent gem form. The main gem form of Spodumene is Kunzite, the other is the rarer Hiddenite. Yellow and colorless gem forms of Spodumene also exist, but are not commonly faceted as gemstones.
Kunzite gemstone meaning. Kunzite was discovered at the Pala Chief Mine near San Diego, California and named after gemologist GF Kunz, who first described it after the turn of the twentieth century. Kunzite is an unusual, and rare, stone.
Kunzite Uses and Purposes-Overview. Pink Kunzite is often called the Woman's Stone. It is particularly supportive for a young or first-time mother and for all single mothers, and assists human, as well as animal mothers who may have a hard time caring for their young.
Kunzite ON EBAY. ALL ABOUT. Kunzite is a relatively recent gemstone, having been first discovered in the 20th century. It was first found in the pegmatites of Pala, California, in 1902, and is named after the famous mineralogist George F. Kunz who first identified it.
Kunzite is known to produce gemstones of great size. In fact, it's not uncommon to find fine quality stones weighing 20 carats or more. Kunzite and the entire spodumene group are important industrial sources of lithium, which is used for the making of medicines, ceramics, mobile phones and automotive batteries.
]. Kunzite: Kunzite is a rare and unusual gemstone ranging from nearly colorless to rich electric pink. It is found in California, Brazil and Afghanistan. It is possible to find very large pieces of kunzite (even up to 40 carats). The larger pieces usually exhibit deeper color – compounding their value.
Kunzite. Millions of years ago, deep in the bowels of our Earth, gemstones were created in innumerable variations. We are familiar with most of them, and indeed we have been so in most cases for thousands of years. Yet every now and again a previously unknown variant of a gem comes to light.
Kunzite. Stone Information & Mining. Kunzite is the best-known variety of the mineral spodumene. It's named after famed gemologist George Frederick Kunz, who was the first to identify it as a unique variety of spodumene. It's found in Afghanistan, Brazil, Madagascar, and the US state of California.
For a very large pink gemstone, kunzite is the most affordable option. Note: Buy colored gemstones by size and not by carat weight. Colored stones vary in size-to-weight ratio. Some stones are larger and others are smaller than diamond by weight in comparison.