Dressing and Filleting round fish. Salmon cooking recipes. Learn how to debone whole salmon. How do you know the fish is fresh-it should have a shiny, brilliant appearance, scales firmly in place. Bright shiny eyes, sunken eyes are not a sign of freshness. How to fillet a salmon quickly. This Technique is one of the best to butcher whole salmon. The Knife cut close to the bone of the Salmon fillet. Removing the head of the salmon and the fillet of the salmon.
Answer by Vllad45 (1886). You will need to fillet the fish so that the larger bone is in the middle. Lift this bone and generally most of the smaller bones will lift off with it. Go back with your fillet knife and flick out the small bones. Also, if you boil it long enough, the smallest will be edible. 
I use a 10 inch butcher knife to cut through the bones and a fillet knife to remove the ribs. It is also handy to have a towel nearby to wipe your hand and/or to hold the salmon during some portions of the cutting process. The towel will absorb the fish slime and will give you something to hold the fish firmly with. 
Instructions. Open the can of salmon. Using the lid to hold the salmon in the can, drain the liquid over the sink or over a bowl. Tip the salmon out onto a cutting board or plate. Gently pry apart the center of the fish where the cartilage or spine is located. This will help you to remove it in fewer pieces. 
Report Abuse. It's not necessary to debone any of these fish. They are cooked at such high temperature during the canning that the bones are soft. They are a good source of calcium. I do, however, remove the skin from the canned salmon and most of the bone---by using my fingers to pick them out. You can buy salmon that has the bones and skin removed. It's a bit higher, though. Best Answer: You don't debone it because the bones in canned salmon and anchovies are soft that you can eat them and they are a great source of calcium.
Before cooking a salmon fillet, it’s always a good idea to check it for pin bones. These tiny “floating” bones aren’t attached to the fish’s main skeleton, and they remain hidden in the flesh after the fish is filleted. Some fish mongers remove them for you, but some don’t. Step three: Grasp the end of the bone with fish tweezers or needlenose pliers and pull slowly and steadily on the bone, wiggling it gently until it pulls free. Repeat until the fillet is bone-free.. Choose a tool. Pin bones are slippery, so you need a tool with a good grip to remove them.
To debone your small fish you will need a clean board or surface to work on, a sturdy and sharp knife with a flat edge to cut through the fish and a small pair of tweezers to remove stray bones. 
by JustinDSN in Food & Drink. Avoid the annoying bones in a salmon steak by removing them before cooking. While a fish monger can do this for you, it is simple enough to do yourself. Salmon steaks are cross-cut pieces of the fish with a piece of the spine in the middle and several smaller pin bones. The deboned salmon steak will. TAGS: Debone Salmon Steak. JustinDSN. HOME » Food & Drink. Avoid the annoying bones in a salmon steak by removing them before cooking. While a fish monger can do this for you, it is simple enough to do yourself. Salmon steaks are cross-cut pieces of the fish with a piece of the spine in the middle and several smaller pin bones.