Whether you want to use it as a study tool for your own education or bring it in as an alternative way for students in your classes to learn a subject, it’s simple and free to get started with Khan Academy.
Or they misunderstand what Khan Academy is all about. Putting videos on YouTube is just a small piece of the equation. What Khan Academy enables is a fundamentally different way for students to approach learning.
Based in Topsham, Maine, this middle school is embracing Khan Academy in a pilot set of math classrooms this year. Students will be using the math videos posted at Khan to learn new concepts while also completing problem sets, both in the classroom and at home for practice.
The Ethics of Cheating Khan Academy. As a parent who also happens to be a gamer, I have mixed feelings about anyone who is trying to game an educational opportunity. Earlier this year, my son was flying through his math homework. It turned out that instead of actually working out the problems he was using a calculator.
Learn for free about math, art, computer programming, economics, physics, chemistry, biology, medicine, finance, history, and more. Khan Academy is a nonprofit with the mission of providing a free, world-class education for anyone, anywhere. If you're seeing this message, it means we're having trouble loading external resources for Khan Academy.
Close interstitial. Just so you know, you're about to go to another web site that Bank of America doesn't own or operate. Its owner is responsible for the web site's content, services, and level of security, so be sure to check out the web site's privacy policy and Terms of Use when you get there. I have read and agree to the Terms of Use. Continue Return to Better Money Habits&#8482.
If there’s a model of a school using Khan Academy, it’s this Silicon Valley-adjacent school district. The district is participating in a pilot program in partnership with the developers at Khan Academy, and the results of student experiences with the videos and learning tools are being closely monitored.
From kindergarten to calculus, Khan Academy is here to help. Take control of your learning by working on the skills you choose at your own pace with free online courses. A free learning resource tailored for your child. A free learning resource personalized for every student.