Set in 19th century England, the musical tells the story of Benjamin Barker, alias Sweeney Todd, who returns to London after 15 years' transportation on trumped-up charges, to take revenge on the judge who banished him. Sweeney Todd opened on Broadway in 1979 and in the West End in 1980. The first opera company to mount Sweeney Todd was the Houston Grand Opera in a production directed by Hal Prince, which ran from June 14, 1984 through June 24, 1984 for a total of 10 performances.
Prior to the 2007 anthology, Christopher Bond wrote the stage musical Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street in 1970, and Stephen Sondheim later adapted it again for stage in 1979. Those who are familiar with his movies know that his movies are often dark and focus more on greyscale colors. Whenever he includ … es blood in his movies (Edward Scissorhands, Sleepy Hollow and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street) he likes the blood to contrast with the overall color in the movie.
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street received four Golden Globe nominations for the January 2008 65th Golden Globe Awards, winning two. The film received the award for Best Motion Picture in the Musical or Comedy genre, and Depp for his performance as Sweeney Todd. Barker adopts the alias Sweeney Todd and returns to his old Fleet Street shop, situated above Mrs. Nellie Lovett 's meat pie shop (The Worst Pies in London). From her, he learns that Turpin raped Lucy, who then poisoned herself with arsenic.
Tim Burton first saw Stephen Sondheim 's 1979 stage musical, Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street, as a CalArts student in London in 1980. Barker adopts the alias Sweeney Todd and returns to his old Fleet Street shop, situated above Mrs. Nellie Lovett 's meat pie shop (The Worst Pies in London). From her, he learns that Turpin raped Lucy, who then poisoned herself with arsenic.
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is a 1979 musical thriller with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by Hugh Wheeler. The musical is based on the 1973 play Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street by Christopher Bond. The first opera company to mount Sweeney Todd was the Houston Grand Opera in a production directed by Hal Prince, which ran from June 14, 1984 through June 24, 1984 for a total of 10 performances.
About the Musical. This dark 1979 Tony Award-winner for Best Musical features music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and is based on the 1973 play “Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street” by Christopher Bond. Story: 
Hobbes, N (2004) ‘Nick Hobbes looks at what inspired Stephen Sondheim to write Sweeney Todd’ in the 2004 Trafalgar Studios production programme. Horowi tz, M (2003) Sondheim on music: minor details and major decisions. Oxford: Scarecrow in association with the Library of Congress. Mi czni k, V (1994) ‘Mahler and the Power of Genre’ in Journal Of Musicology, 12(7). 117-151. Mi l l er, S (2000) ‘Assassins and the Concept Musical’ in Gordon, J (1997) Stephen Sondheim: A Casebook. New York: Garland Publishing. Mol l i n, A (1991) ‘Mayhem and Morality in Sweeney Todd’ American Music, 9, 405-417.
To preview and buy music from Sweeney Todd-The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (The Motion Picture Soundtrack) by Stephen Sondheim, download iTunes now. 
1 A Musical Thriller (1979), the acclaimed musical adaptation of Bond's play by Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler starring Len Cariou as Sweeney Todd (here christened Benjamin Barker) and Angela Lansbury as Mrs. Lovett. 2  George Hearn and Dorothy Loudon later succeeded Cariou and Lansbury in the lead roles. 1 Demon Sweeney Todd, a song by British heavy metal band Saxon on their 2009 studio album Into the Labyrinth.  2 Floyd the Barber, a song by grunge band Nirvana on their 1989 album Bleach, features a scenario in which Floyd Lawson, the barber from The Andy Griffith Show, becomes a murderer stylized after Sweeney Todd.
The infamous story of Benjamin Barker, AKA Sweeney Todd, who sets up a barber shop down in London which is the basis for a sinister partnership with his fellow tenant, Mrs. Lovett. Based on the hit Broadway musical. The beauty of Lucy attracts the attention of the corrupt Judge Turpin, who falsely accuses the barber of a crime that he did not commit and abuses Lucy later after gaining custody of her. After fifteen years in exile, Benjamin returns to London under the new identity of Sweeney Todd, seeking revenge against Turpin.