John Keats Poems. 1  A Thing Of Beauty (Endymion) A thing of beauty is a joy for 2  ... Bright Star Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou 3  ... When I Have Fears When I have fears that I may cease 4  ... Ode To A Nightingale My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness ... John Keats Poems. 1  A Thing Of Beauty (Endymion) A thing of beauty is a joy for 2  ... Bright Star Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou 3  ... When I Have Fears When I have fears that I may cease ...
A Thing of Beauty is a Joy Forever. A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: Its loveliness increases; it will never. Pass into nothingness; but still will keep. A bower quiet for us, and a sleep. Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing. 
John Keats Poems. 1  A Thing Of Beauty (Endymion) A thing of beauty is a joy for 2  ... Bright Star Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou 3  ... When I Have Fears When I have fears that I may cease 4  ... Ode To A Nightingale My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness 5  ... Ode On A Grecian Urn Thou still unravish'd bride of ... John Keats Poems. 1  A Thing Of Beauty (Endymion) A thing of beauty is a joy for 2  ... Bright Star Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou 3  ... When I Have Fears When I have fears that I may cease ...
Having worked on it for many months, Keats finished his epic poem comprising four books, Endymion: A Poetic Romance -- A thing of beauty is a joy for ever --in 1818. That summer he travelled to the Lake District of England and on to Ireland and Scotland on a walking tour with Brown. 
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: Its loveliness increases; it will never Pass into nothingness; but still will keep A bower quiet for us, and a sleep Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing. The meaning and origin of the expression: A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
Endymion is a poem by John Keats first published in 1818. It begins with the line A thing of beauty is a joy for ever. Endymion is written in rhyming couplets in iambic pentameter (also known as heroic couplets). Keats based the poem on the Greek myth of Endymion, the shepherd beloved by the moon goddess Selene. 
A thing of beauty joy for ever......Very beautiful poem of the great poetic mind.John Keats I ever likes the poet and his great poems. (Report) Reply. Angelina Holmes (10/4/2014 2:08:00 PM). Great rhyme scheme; I love the message as well. So lovely. A thing of beauty is a joy forever is a famous saying by john keats (Report) Reply. Prajyut Kar (7/4/2015 2:04:00 AM). Life is just a mere place to Work for Ourselves but in the mean time we have lost something that is real happiness..................... (Report) Reply. Ekta Sharma (6/2/2015 9:18:00 PM).
John Keats is the person the quote A thing of beauty is a joy forever is attributed to. Keats found that a beauty (beautiful thing) is a source of perennial joy and happiness. It leaves an indelible mark on our mind and provides us with etetnal happiness whenever … we think about it. our joy increases as we keep on remembering the beauty.
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: Its lovliness increases; it will never. Pass into nothingness; but still will keep. A bower quiet for us, and a sleep. Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing. A thing of beauty is a joy forever is a famous saying by john keats (Report) Reply. Prajyut Kar (7/4/2015 2:04:00 AM). Life is just a mere place to Work for Ourselves but in the mean time we have lost something that is real happiness..................... (Report) Reply. Ekta Sharma (6/2/2015 9:18:00 PM).
From John Keats' epic poem, Endymion, 1818: A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: Its loveliness increases; it will never. Pass into nothingness; but still will keep. A bower quiet for us, and a sleep. Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing. The meaning and origin of the expression: A thing of beauty is a joy forever.