Geraniol is a clear to pale-yellow oil with a rose-like odor. In addition to being used as a fragrance ingredient, Geraniol is also used in flavors such as peach, raspberry, plum, citrus fruits, watermelon, pineapple and blueberry. In cosmetics and personal care products, Geraniol is used in the formulation of aftershave lotions, bath products, bubble baths, hair products, lipsticks, moisturizers, perfumes and colognes, skin care products and suntan products.
More scientific Information: Geraniol, or 3,7-dimethyl-2,6 and 3,6-octadien-1- ol, is a terpene alcohol. It is the primary part of oil-of-rose, palmarosa oil, and citronella oil (Java type). It also occurs in small quantities in geranium, lemon and many other essential oils. In cosmetics and personal care products, Geraniol is used in the formulation of aftershave lotions, bath products, bubble baths, hair products, lipsticks, moisturizers, perfumes and colognes, skin care products and suntan products.
Research has shown geraniol to be an effective plant-based mosquito repellent. On the other hand, it can attract bees as it is produced by the scent glands of honey bees to help them mark nectar-bearing flowers and locate the entrances to their hives. The functional group based on geraniol (in essence, geraniol lacking the terminal-OH) is called geranyl. It is important in biosynthesis of other terpenes. It is a by-product of the metabolism of sorbate and, thus, is a very unpleasant contaminant of wine if bacteria are allowed to grow in wine.
Geraniol is acyclic monoterpene-alcohol. Pure geraniol is a colourless oily liquid, with a sweet rose-like scent. When oxidized, geraniol becomes geranial or citral. Bergamot, carrot, coriander, lavender, lemon, lime, nutmeg, orange, rose, blueberry and blackberry. Geraniol is a natural antioxidant.
Although geraniol and other flavor compounds are found naturally in well-aged tobacco, geraniol is listed in a 1994 report from cigarette companies as one of the 599 additives to cigarettes to improve their flavor. The functional group based on geraniol (in essence, geraniol lacking the terminal-OH) is called geranyl. It is important in biosynthesis of other terpenes. It is a by-product of the metabolism of sorbate and, thus, is a very unpleasant contaminant of wine if bacteria are allowed to grow in wine.
Geraniol is a monoterpenoid and an alcohol. It is the primary part of rose oil, palmarosa oil, and citronella oil (Java type). It also occurs in small quantities in geranium, lemon, and many other essential oils. The functional group based on geraniol (in essence, geraniol lacking the terminal-OH) is called geranyl. It is important in biosynthesis of other terpenes. It is a by-product of the metabolism of sorbate and, thus, is a very unpleasant contaminant of wine if bacteria are allowed to grow in wine.
Definition of GERANIOL. : a fragrant liquid unsaturated alcohol C10H18O used chiefly in perfumes and soap. ADVERTISEMENT
About GERANIOL: Geraniol is a naturally occurring scent ingredient found in various essential oils such as rose oil and citronella oil. Function(s): Fragrance Ingredient; MASKING; TONIC. 
Medical Definition of GERANIOL. : a fragrant liquid unsaturated alcohol C10H18O that occurs both free and combined in many essential oils (as citronella oil) and is used chiefly in perfumes and in soap. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about geraniol. : a fragrant liquid unsaturated alcohol C10H18O used chiefly in perfumes and soap.