For hardwood floor owners, the dilemma on whether to use a steam cleaner is not as clear cut as laminate flooring. Depending on the type of hardwood species (Oak versus Brazilian Cherry, Maple versus Teak), humidity from a steam cleaner can have very different effects.
Hardwood flooring is more likely to take the abuse of steam cleaning better than laminate flooring in the short term. After repeated use and the constant introduction of humidity to the floor, hardwood floors will begin to show signs of damage.
1 Avoid using water and vinegar, soap-based cleaners, wax or steam cleaners on your hardwood floor. 2  Vinegar and water will dull the floor’s finish over time, while soap or wax will leave a residue. 3  Steam cleaners put heat and excessive water on your floor, which can lead to cupping and long-term damage.
The short answer is, probably not. Hardwood is naturally a very absorbent material, and water can cause it to plump, warp, twist, and mold. A steam cleaner essentially uses water, heated to a very hot vapor, in order to disinfect the surface of a floor.
The steam leaves to much water on the floor, even sealed wood flooring. Also, the humidity causes the wood to expand and then retract every time you use it. Wood and laminate manufactures void your warranty if you do use and damage your floor with a steam mop.
You have seen the infomercials and possibly read product labels that say safe for cleaning laminate or wood flooring, but I can assure you that steam cleaning wood or laminate flooring is a recipe for disaster. Most hardwood and laminate flooring manufacturers warn against moisture and their products.
1 Before you steam clean, remove dust and grit from the floor as these can cause scratches. 2  Many steamers are designed to run on water alone, but if you choose to use a cleaning solution in your steamer, be sure to use a cleaner with a neutral pH. 3  Be sure your hardwood floors are sealed.
1 Don't use a steam cleaner on hardwoods that is not intended to be used on wood. 2  Some cleaners intended for other hard surfaces such as tile or linoleum can actually damage hardwood floors. 3  Read the manufacturer's directions and warnings before purchasing or renting a steam cleaner for
The best way to clean your bamboo floor is to use products specifically designed for bamboo or hardwood floors, such as a spray mop with a removable microfiber pad and a PH neutral cleaning spray. Alternatively a regular mop and water can be used as long as the mop is wrung out totally so that it is only slightly damp.
Anderson Hardwood; Never wet-mop, damp-mop, or clean your Anderson Hardwood floor with water or other products. This can severely damage the flooring and will void the warranties. Do not use hardwood floor cleaning machines or steam cleaners.