Heart attack facts. 1  A heart attack results when a blood clot completely obstructs a coronary artery supplying blood to the heart muscle and heart muscle dies. 2  The blood clot that causes the heart attack usually forms at the site of rupture of an atherosclerotic, cholesterol plaque on the inner wall of a coronary artery. Coronary arteries are blood vessels that supply the heart muscle with blood and oxygen. Blockage of a coronary artery deprives the heart muscle of blood and oxygen, causing injury to the heart muscle. Injury to the heart muscle causes chest pain and chest pressure sensation.
Myocardial infarction (MI) or acute myocardial infarction (AMI), commonly known as a heart attack, occurs when blood flow stops to a part of the heart causing damage to the heart muscle. The most common symptom is chest pain or discomfort which may travel into the shoulder, arm, back, neck, or jaw. A myocardial infarction occurs when an atherosclerotic plaque slowly builds up in the inner lining of a coronary artery and then suddenly ruptures, causing catastrophic thrombus formation, totally occluding the artery and preventing blood flow downstream.
A heart attack (also known as a myocardial infarction or MI) is the damage and death of heart muscle from the sudden blockage of a coronary artery by a blood clot. Coronary arteries are blood vessels that supply the heart muscle with blood and oxygen. Blockage of a coronary artery deprives the heart muscle of blood and oxygen, causing injury to the heart muscle. Injury to the heart muscle causes chest pain and chest pressure sensation.
The effect is to reduce blood flow to a portion of the heart muscle. To this process blood clots can be added (thrombus) a process known as atherothrombosis. When there is total cessation of blood flow to an area (usually by a blood clot formation) results in a myocardial infarction. Myocardial Infarction Risk Factors. Anyone can reduce risk of heart attack! Certain factors, called coronary risk factors, increase the risk of atherosclerosis. The process of atherosclerosis can be slowed by reducing these risk factors, thus reducing the risk of death or disability by
Myocardial ischemia occurs when the blood flow through one or more of your coronary arteries is decreased. The low blood flow decreases the amount of oxygen your heart muscle receives. Myocardial ischemia can develop slowly as arteries become blocked over time. 1 Atherosclerosis is the most common cause of myocardial ischemia. 2  Blood clot. 3  The plaques that develop in atherosclerosis can rupture, causing a blood clot. 4  The clot might block an artery and lead to sudden, severe myocardial ischemia, resulting in a heart attack.
Conditions We Treat: Myocardial Infarction (Heart Attack). A myocardial infarction (MI), commonly known as a heart attack, occurs when a portion of the heart is deprived of oxygen due to blockage of a coronary artery. Coronary arteries supply the heart muscle (myocardium) with oxygenated blood. Without oxygen, muscle cells served by the blocked artery begin to die (infarct). 
Acute myocardial infarction, the medical name for a heart attack, refers to a heart condition that is caused when the blood circulation or flow is abruptly cut off from the heart. 
1 A heart attack results when a blood clot completely obstructs a coronary artery supplying blood to the heart muscle and heart muscle dies. 2  The blood clot that causes the heart attack usually forms at the site of rupture of an atherosclerotic, cholesterol plaque on the inner wall of a coronary artery. Coronary arteries are blood vessels that supply the heart muscle with blood and oxygen. Blockage of a coronary artery deprives the heart muscle of blood and oxygen, causing injury to the heart muscle. Injury to the heart muscle causes chest pain and chest pressure sensation.
Myocardial Infarction Causes. The main cause of both unstable angina and myocardial infarction is coronary artery disease. Coronary heart disease occurs when atheromatous plaques appear along the internal walls of coronary arteries and thus reduces blood flow to the heart. Myocardial Infarction Risk Factors. Anyone can reduce risk of heart attack! Certain factors, called coronary risk factors, increase the risk of atherosclerosis. The process of atherosclerosis can be slowed by reducing these risk factors, thus reducing the risk of death or disability by myocardial infarction.