Levitas was born in New York City. He attended Horace Mann School and then Dalton School in Manhattan. In high school, Levitas became a member of the downtown repertory company, City Kids, as well as a published writer. After graduating from The Dalton School, he attended New York University. He graduated in 2000 with a degree from the Gallatin School of NYU. He is Jewish. In 2012, Levitas directed the feature film Lullaby starring Garrett Hedlund, Academy Award Nominees Amy Adams, Richard Jenkins, Terrence Howard, Anne Archer, and Academy award Winner Jennifer Hudson, from his own screenplay. The film was released globally in 2014.
He had a recurring guest spot on Wayward Pines, where he worked alongside Oscar nominee Matt Dillon. Andrew can also be seen in the critically acclaimed AMC series The Killing, where he played the recurring love interest of Mireille Enos and in the hit CW show, Supernatural. 
Sunjata was born and grew up in Chicago, Illinois. He is the adopted son of Bill and Catherine Condon, a police dispatcher and a civil rights worker. He is of mixed African American, Irish, and German ancestry. Producers of the show Rescue Me, inspired by Sunjata's views, created a subplot of the show that year (the show's fifth season) in which Sunjata's character, Franco Rivera, stirs up controversy in the firehouse when he announces these same views to a journalist.
Biography. A native of Alberta, Canada, Jenkins was raised on a farm with musicians in the family and parents who were supportive of his desire to be an actor. Andrew can also be seen in the critically acclaimed AMC series The Killing, where he played the recurring love interest of Mireille Enos and in the hit CW show, Supernatural. One of Andrew's first roles was working with Oscar winning actress Holly Hunter in Saving Grace.
You can help the Walking Dead Wiki by expanding it. Andrew Jenkins is an American actor who portrayed the walker, one of which notably attacked Richard Foster in The Walking Dead. 
Official Photos ». Andrew Jenkins' background is richly diverse. A native of Alberta, Canada, he was raised on a farm with musicians in the family and parents who were supportive of his desire to be an actor. It wasn't long into his career before he launched an international adventure as the lead in the Canadian/Australian production of Stormworld, an ... See full bio ».
Mini Bio (1). Andrew Jenkins' background is richly diverse. A native of Alberta, Canada, he was raised on a farm with musicians in the family and parents who were supportive of his desire to be an actor. It wasn't long into his career before he launched an international adventure as the lead in the Canadian/Australian production of Stormworld, an action-adventure series for Canada's CTV (Space Channel), ABC-TV, Disney Channel (AU), and Australia's Nine Network.
Now OUAT has inked deals for more recurring guest roles that will join him: Elliot Knight has been tapped to play Merlin, and Joana Metrass is set to play Guinevere. In addition, Andrew Jenkins has nabbed the guest role of Percival, one of Arthur’s most loyal knights. The news comes ahead of the show’s annual shindig at Comic-Con, where the network usually tips off upcoming cast (the Frozen cast additions drove fans nuts in Ballroom 20 last year). Season 5 of Once Upon A Time premieres September 27.
He had a recurring guest spot on Wayward Pines, where he worked alongside Oscar nominee Matt Dillon. Andrew can also be seen in the critically acclaimed AMC series The Killing, where he played the recurring love interest of Mireille Enos and in the hit CW show, Supernatural. One of Andrew's first roles was working with Oscar winning actress Holly Hunter in Saving Grace.