After your baby's comfortable with the sippy cup (about a month or so), you can start the weaning process. Toward the end, when you finally eliminate the bedtime and morning feedings, enlist Daddy to put your child to bed and pick her up in the morning (just for a while) to soften the blow of not nursing.
Start giving baby a sippy cup early — at about six months — with some breast milk, formula or water in it.
Your child should know how to drink out of a cup before you take away the bottle. Many pediatricians tell parents to introduce sippy cups around 6 to 9 months. That's when kids commonly start drinking water and other liquids besides formula and breast milk.
1 Dip the tip of the sippy spout into the breast milk or formula and then give it to your baby. 2  She may just need a hint! 3  Babies 6 months or younger should get only formula or breast milk in the sippy cup. 4  Show your baby that the spout is like a nipple (it needs to be sucked on).
I did not ever use a bottle-I just went to a sippy cup when they were around 6-7 months old and had started eating some solids. I really liked the ones with the soft spout on top-sorry I don't remember the name!
A sippy cup is a training cup with a screw-or snap-on lid and a spout that lets your child drink without spilling. You can find models with or without handles and with a variety of spouts. An open cup is any cup without a lid.
But before you begin transitioning to a sippy cup, keep the following points in mind: 1  Do not use sippy cups as pacifiers or toys. 2  Use it only to provide your baby with water, juice, or milk. 3  Do not allow your baby to take her sippy cup to bed.
At first, you should just offer water in the sippy cup during meals of solid foods. Then as your child gets more comfortable, start filling the cup with breast milk or formula so she gets used to the idea that all her beverages can come from a cup.
Learn the right way to care for your baby's gums and emerging teeth, when fluoride is okay, whether you need to floss, when and how to brush, and more. Sippy cups can be a great way for your baby to transition from nursing or bottle-feeding to a regular cup. They can also improve hand-to-mouth coordination.