1 Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve.
Right Side of the Heart. 1  Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve.
Blood from the body flows: 1  to the superior and inferior vena cava, 2  then to the right atrium. 3  through the tricuspid valve. 4  to the right ventricle. 5  through the pulmonic valve. 6  to the pulmonary artery. 7  to the lungs.
The right atrium receives de-oxygenated blood from the body through the superior vena cava (head and upper body) and inferior vena cava (legs and lower torso). The sinoatrial node sends an impulse that causes the cardiac muscle tissue of the atrium to contract in a coordinated, wave-like manner.
The superior vena cava is one of the two main veins bringing de-oxygenated blood from the body to the heart. Veins from the head and upper body feed into the superior vena cava, which empties into the right atrium of
The superior vena cava is a large, yet short vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body to the heart's right atrium. The inferior vena cava (or IVC) … is the large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart.
Blood Flow. All blood enters the right side of the heart through two veins: The superior vena cava (SVC) and the inferior vena cava (IVC) (see figure 3). The SVC collects blood from the upper half of the body. The IVC collects blood from the low
Six large veins carry blood to the heart: the superior vena cava and inferior vena cava carry blood from the body to the right atrium, and four pulmonary veins carry blood fro … m the lungs to the left atrium. Two arteries, the pulmonary trunk and the aorta, exit the heart.