Bake the Brisket. 1  Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Cover the pan with foil. 3  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 1 Cover the pan with foil. 2  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 3  Discard the cooking liquid and, if desired, serve the sliced brisket with bottled barbecue sauce.
Bake the Brisket. 1  Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Pour the cooking liquid over the meat. 3  Cover the pan with foil. 4  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 1 Cover the pan with foil. 2  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 3  Discard the cooking liquid and, if desired, serve the sliced brisket with bottled barbecue sauce.
1 Place a fat-trimmed 3- to 3-1/2-pound fresh beef brisket in a 13x9x2-inch baking pan. 2  Pour the cooking liquid over the meat. 3  Cover the pan with foil. 4  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 1 Cover the pan with foil. 2  Bake in a 325 degrees F oven about 3 hours or until tender, turning once halfway through cooking time. 3  Discard the cooking liquid and, if desired, serve the sliced brisket with bottled barbecue sauce.
Step 4. Cook the brisket, well covered with foil, until it's tender enough that you can easily slide the tines of a fork into the meat and twist off a mouthful. Depending on the size and thickness of your piece of brisket, that might take as little as 3 to 4 hours, or as long as 8 hours. Step 4. Bake the brisket in a preheated oven at 300 F for 4 to 6 hours, turning it every 90 minutes so each side is immersed in the cooking liquid approximately half of the time.
Oven-Braised Brisket. Cover the brisket with aluminum foil, sealing tightly around the edges of the roasting pan. Place the brisket in the oven and cook for approximately 3 hours or until it reaches an internal temperature ranging between 195 to 205 degrees Fahrenheit. Michele D. Lee/Demand Media. Oven-Braised Brisket. Let the brisket rest for approximately 20 minutes.
Place in oven for 1 hour. After 1 hour or so, remove top/ foil, baste or flip the meat over, add more liquid if needed, reseal with the foil and return to the oven. Repeat at 30-45 minute intervals until the meat has been in the oven for 3-3 1/2 hours total. 
Cover the pan tightly with foil, and bake in the oven for four hours. At this point, if you want a more pronounced smoky taste, pour another 1/4 cup of the liquid smoke over the brisket. Otherwise, just continue cooking for another hour, or roughly 1 hour and 15 minutes per pound. 3. In a large roasting pan, add the slivered onions, soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, 1/4 cup of the liquid smoke, 1/4 cup black coffee, 1/4 cup apple cider vinegar and half the sliced jalapenos. 4. Place the brisket in the pan, fat side up, and sprinkle the remaining jalapenos on top of the brisket. 5.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard, and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. Lower oven to 300 degrees F, cover pan tightly and continue cooking for 3 hours, or until fork-tender. Trim the fat and slice meat thinly across the grain. Top with juice from the pan. Professional Recipe: This recipe was provided by a chef, restaurant or culinary professional and makes a large quantity.
Allow the brisket to come to room temperature. 3. In a large roasting pan, add the slivered onions, soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, 1/4 cup of the liquid smoke, 1/4 cup black coffee, 1/4 cup apple cider vinegar and half the sliced jalapenos. 4. Place the brisket in the pan, fat side up, and sprinkle the remaining jalapenos on top of the brisket. 5.