Dungarees feature a full seat and thigh (more material than traditional fit), will sit at the natural waist and generally have a wide leg to fit over work boots; relaxed-fit jeans also sit at the natural waist but come with a relaxed seat and thigh (more material than a traditional cut but a little less than dungarees). 
Follow carhartt dungaree fit to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow carhartt dungaree fit to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following carhartt dungaree fit in your eBay Feed. carhartt dungaree fit. 
Dungaree is a type of cloth woven from cotton. It is a thick, durable twill that is almost always dyed blue. Another word for dungaree is blue denim. In its plural form, dungarees refer to clothing made from blue denim, i.e. blue jeans. Dungarees can be considered a universal garment, because they are worn by millions of people all over the world. Dungarees are especially associated with the United States, however, perhaps because their popularization is so closely tied to the youth culture revolutions of the 1950s and 1960s.
They do not, at all, compare to the same B171's of the exact same size that I bought at my local retail store. The leg seams do not run straight and they are off center. The waist is larger and seat fits strangely. I could not send them back because I always wash new jeans prior to wearing. We recently purchased 4 pair for work in sales. All 4 pair are ripping in the back pocket area. They are only 5 months old. It seems that something has changed with the thickness of the jeans.
Not some lab. Our gear is tested in nature by men who battle the elements and push themselves to the limit every day on the job site. So it's ready for anything, just like you. 
These are winter-weight pants in the SE. The dungaree cut is roomy, never binding and allows good air circulation. The heavyweight fabric can be slow to dry--so take a second pair if you expect to get wet. Very durable--after 3 years and approx. 
Whether you choose traditional, relaxed, loose or dungaree fit, Carhartt Jeans are built to last. All feature premium fabric for durability, are designed for a comfortable fit and provide ample room for movement. We recently purchased 4 pair for work in sales. All 4 pair are ripping in the back pocket area. They are only 5 months old. It seems that something has changed with the thickness of the jeans.
Carhartt Jeans for Men. Whether you choose traditional, relaxed, loose or dungaree fit, Carhartt Jeans are built to last. All feature premium fabric for durability, are designed for a comfortable fit and provide ample room for movement. Carhartt Denim Relaxed Fit Jean (Carhartt B17). We recently purchased 4 pair for work in sales. All 4 pair are ripping in the back pocket area. They are only 5 months old. It seems that something has changed with the thickness of the jeans.
Our gear is tested in nature by men who battle the elements and push themselves to the limit every day on the job site. So it's ready for anything, just like you. 
Definition of DUNGAREE. 1. : a heavy coarse durable cotton twill woven from colored yarns; specifically: blue denim. 2. plural: clothes made usually of blue denim. — dun·ga·reed \-ˈrēd, -ˌrēd\ adjective. See dungaree defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 