It is a fine, tight grain and has large medullar rays. Beech is similar in appearance to maple and birch. One excellent characteristic of Beech is that fact that it does stain and polish well. Beech is a wood with high crush strength and medium stiffness. 
Sugar maple-beech-yellow birch forest (S5). Sugar maple-beech-yellow birch forest is the most common hardwood forest type in northern New Hampshire, and is frequently referred to simply as northern hardwood forest. It is most abundant on mid to upper mountain slopes between 1,500 and 2,500 feet elevation, with patchier distribution at lower elevations. Sugar maple-beech-yellow birch forest near The Flume (photo by Ben Kimball) sugar maple-beech-yellow birch forest at Nancy Brook (photo by Ben Kimball) the floor of a sugar maple-beech-yellow birch forest in Shelburne (photo by Ben Kimball).
American beech (Fagus grandifolia) is the only species of this genus in North America. Although beech is now confined to the eastern United States (except for the Mexican population) it once extended as far west as California and probably flourished over most of North America before the glacial period (39). Beech root systems are more shallow than the associated yellow birch and sugar maple. Few tree species are less tolerant of flooding during the growing season than American beech. Root exudates of beech contain more organic acids than those of sugar maple or yellow birch.
BIRCH: There are many species of birch. The yellow birch is the most commercially important. European birch is fine grained, rare and expensive. Properties & Uses: Birch is a hard, heavy, close grained hardwood with a light brown or reddish colored heartwood and cream or light sapwood. BEECH: The American beech is a single species which grows in the eastern half of the United States. Properties & Uses: Beech is a hard, strong, heavy wood with tiny pores and large conspicuous medullary rays, similar in appearance to maple. This relatively inexpensive wood has reddish brown heartwood and
They are medium to dark green and are double-toothed (means it has smaller teeth on top of large teeth). River Beech leaves turn yellow in the fall. The bark of this tree varies according to its age. Young River Birch has a silvery gray bark, with light reddish-brown patches. Older trees have dark reddish-brown bark, sometimes almost black. 
Connect the Dots. Birch and beech are similar in appearance. Both are honey-colored or light brown with relatively straight grain, but beech has tighter and straighter patterns than birch. Birch is more likely to have larger swirls, which are often brown in color. Beech is more uniform without the wild swirls common to birch. Cabinets are made using two types of birch or beech: plywood and hardwood solids. When furniture builders use beech, they use primarily the hardwood solid form rather than plywood.
European Beech wood is normally white, pale cream or pale brown and is steamed to relieve drying stresses while also bringing out a pinkish-red color. Yellow Birch has a white sapwood and light reddish brown heartwood. It is generally straight grained with a fine uniform texture. 
Plywood Variables. Cabinets are made using two types of birch or beech: plywood and hardwood solids. When furniture builders use beech, they use primarily the hardwood solid form rather than plywood. The availability of beech plywood for cabinetry is somewhat limited simply because it isn't used much