ATP is produced by almost all living things in organelles called mitochondria found in cells. It is not energy itself, but rather temporarily stores energy in its' bonds. When the third phosphate bond is broken, energy is released. Adenosine triphosphate is a nucleoside triphosphate used in cells as a coenzyme. It is used to transport chemical energy within cells for metabolism. Another name for ATP is Adenosine triphosphate.
In the context of cellular biology, ATP stands for adenosine  triphosphate-which carries a form of energy (chemical energy)  that cells can use.    NADPH stands for … nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate -  which is a reducing agent involved in the production of lipids and  nucleic acids. Adenosine triphosphate is a nucleoside triphosphate used in cells as a coenzyme. It is used to transport chemical energy within cells for metabolism. Another name for ATP is Adenosine triphosphate.
ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. It is one of the end products of photophosphorylation, cellular respiration, and fermentation and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division. ATP is therefore continuously recycled in organisms: the human body, which on average contains only 250 grams (8.8 oz) of ATP, turns over its own body weight equivalent in ATP each day. ATP is used as a substrate in signal transduction pathways by kinases that phosphorylate proteins and lipids.
It is produced in the mitochondria during cellular respiration, and a little is produ … ced in the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis, but this is later used up in the light independent reactions. ATP is used as an energy source for cells to carry out functions like active transport. When a cell needs energy, it breaks one of the phosphates off of the ATP, which releases energy. After this, the ATP is called ADP (adenosine diphosphate). + 2 others found this useful.
First, we need to know what ATP really is-chemically, it is known as adenosine triphosphate. ATP is a usable form of energy for cells-the energy is trapped in a chemical bond that can be released and used to drive other reactions that require energy (endergonic reactions). 
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
ATP is produced in many ways. Fermentation, respiration and photosynthesis are the main ways. Cells use ADP (Adenosine di-phosphate) and add a phosphate group. After ATP is broken down into ADP and a phosphate group, the parts recycle to form ATP again. The ongoing process of breaking and rejoining phosphate groups is what keeps the cell going. 
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
ATP (Adenosine triphosphate). 1  It is the major energy currency of the cell, providing the energy for most of the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 2  It is one of the monomers used in the synthesis of RNA and, after conversion to deoxyATP (dATP), DNA. 3  It regulates many biochemical pathways. 
ATP. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate, or ATP, is the principal molecule for storing and transferring energy in cells. It is often referred to as the energy currency of the cell and can be compared to storing money in a bank. ATP can be used to store energy for future reactions or be withdrawn to pay for reactions when energy is required by the cell. Animals store the energy obtained from the breakdown of food as ATP. Likewise, plants capture and store the energy they derive from light during photosynthesis in ATP molecule