The spleen plays important roles in regard to red blood cells (also referred to as erythrocytes) and the immune system. It removes old red blood cells and holds a reserve of blood, which can be valuable in case of hemorrhagic shock, and also recycles iron. A study published in 2009 using mice found that the spleen contains, in its reserve, half of the body's monocytes within the red pulp. These monocytes, upon moving to injured tissue (such as the heart), turn into dendritic cells and macrophages while promoting tissue healing.
1 It also is part of the lymphatic system and produces lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that are a part of the immune system that helps to prevent and fight infection. 2  The spleen also acts as a reservoir for red blood cells and platelets, should the body need them. 
The spleen plays multiple supporting roles in the body. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis.
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it's commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can't easily feel it unless it's abnormally enlarged. The spleen plays multiple supporting roles in the body. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis.
This leaflet gives a brief overview of the spleen and its functions. The spleen is an organ about the size of a clenched fist found on the left-hand side of your upper abdomen. Its main functions are to filter your blood, create new blood cells and store platelets. It is also a key part of your body's immune system. It is similar in structure to a lymph node, and is the largest lymphatic organ in the body. The spleen contains two main types of tissue-white pulp and red pulp. White pulp is lymphatic tissue (material which is part of the immune system) mainly made up of white blood cells.
The spleen is found on the left side of your body, behind the stomach on a level with the 9th to 11th ribs. It is similar in structure to a lymph node, and is the largest lymphatic organ in the body. The spleen contains two main types of tissue-white pulp and red pulp. White pulp is lymphatic tissue (material which is part of the immune system) mainly made up of white blood cells.
How the Body Works The Spleen. The spleen is a small organ located behind the stomach in the left, upper part of the abdomen. A mass of lymphoid tissue, it contains two distinct areas, the white pulp and the red pulp. The white pulp is distributed, as tiny nodules of lymphatic tissue, among the red pulp, which fills all the remaining space. 
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis.
The spleen synthesizes antibodies in its white pulp and removes antibody-coated bacteria and antibody-coated blood cells by way of blood and lymph node circulation. A study published in 2009 using mice found that the spleen contains, in its reserve, half of the body's monocytes within the red pulp. These monocytes, upon moving to injured tissue (such as the heart), turn into dendritic cells and macrophages while promoting tissue healing.
Spleen. An organ that is part of the lymphatic system. The spleen makes lymphocytes, filters the blood, stores blood cells, and destroys old blood cells. It is located on the left side of the abdomen near the stomach. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute). Related terms: Splenic. 