To determine the melting temperature of DNA, or Tm. The Tm is defined as the temperature in degress Celsius, at which 50% of all molecules of a given DNA sequence are hybridized into a double strand, and 50% are present as single strands. DNA melting temperature is the temperature in degree Celsius, at which 50% of all molecules of a given DNA sequence are hybridized into a double strand, and 50% are present as single strands. 0 | 0.
Sreekanth K V 24 Dec 2014. The melting temperature of DNA is called as Tm. The Tm is defined as the temperature in degrees Celsius, at which 50% of all molecules of a given DNA sequence are hybridized into a double strand, and 50% are present as single strands. DNA melting temperature is the temperature in degree Celsius, at which 50% of all molecules of a given DNA sequence are hybridized into a double strand, and 50% are present as single strands. 0 | 0.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Nucleic acid thermodynamics is the study of how temperature affects the nucleic acid structure of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA). The melting temperature (Tm) is defined as the temperature at which half of the DNA strands are in the random coil or single-stranded (ssDNA) state. Tm depends on the length of the DNA molecule and its specific nucleotide sequence. Because cytosine / guanine base-pairing is generally stronger than adenosine / thymine base-pairing, the amount of cytosine and guanine in a genome (called the  GC content ) can be estimated by measuring the temperature at which the genomic DNA melts. Higher temperatures are associated with high GC content.
Chandran 23 Dec 2014. The melting temperature of DNA is called as Tm. The Tm is defined as the temperature in degrees Celsius, at which 50% of all molecules of a given DNA sequence are hybridized into a double strand, and 50% are present as single strands. DNA melting temperature is the temperature in degree Celsius, at which 50% of all molecules of a given DNA sequence are hybridized into a double strand, and 50% are present as single strands. 0 | 0.
THEME Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA)DNA is normally double-stranded and the two strands are held together by weak interactions, chiefly stacking interactions and hydrogen bonds [DNA Denaturation and Renaturation and the Role of Hydrogen Bonds and Stacking Interactions]. The figure shows that the DNA molecules melt, or denature, as the temperature is raised. When the temperature was lowered to 67°C they could follow the formation of double-standed DNA over time. For virus and bacteriophage DNA (solid triangles and circles) most of the DNA seemed to renature in about one hour.
The denaturation of nucleic acids such as DNA due to high temperatures is the separation of a double strand into two single strands, which occurs when the hydrogen bonds between the strands are broken. This process is used during polymerase chain reaction. Note 2: Denaturation can occur when proteins and nucleic acids are subjected to elevated temperature or to extremes of pH, or to nonphysiological concentrations of salt, organic solvents, urea, or other chemical agents.
Answers. Best Answer: normally DNA is in the form of a double strand (ds), however when heated it becomes denatured which means the hydrogen bonds between the base pairs are broken and the dsDNA melts into two (complementary) single stranded (ss) DNA molecules. 
A renaturation experiment with the temperature jump apparatus. The absorbance at 260 rnp of a solution of T4 DNA as a function of time was measured. A, = 1.02. The alkali-denatured DNA was rapidly heated from 0 to (T,-25%) and kept at 67% while the DNA renatured. The temperature was then slowly raised to lOO’C, the DNA melted, the temperature was lowered as rapidly as possible to (T,-25%) and maintained constant. The DNA again renatured with the same rate.