The noun virulence derives from the adjective virulent. Virulent can describe either disease severity or a pathogen's infectivity. The word virulent derives from the Latin word virulentus, meaning a poisoned wound or full of poison.. In an ecological context, virulence can be defined as the host's parasite-induced loss of fitness. Virulent bacteria [edit]. The ability of bacteria to cause disease is described in terms of the number of infecting bacteria, the route of entry into the body, the effects of host defense mechanisms, and intrinsic characteristics of the bacteria called virulence factors.
Definition of VIRULENCE. : the quality or state of being virulent: as a: extreme bitterness or malignity of temper: rancor c: the relative capacity of a pathogen to overcome body defenses. See virulence defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Virulence is, by MeSH definition, the degree of pathogenicity within a group or species of parasites as indicated by case fatality rates and/or the ability of the organism to invade the tissues of the host. Virulent bacteria [edit]. The ability of bacteria to cause disease is described in terms of the number of infecting bacteria, the route of entry into the body, the effects of host defense mechanisms, and intrinsic characteristics of the bacteria called virulence factors.
Virulent- 1. very poisonous: extremely poisonous, infectious, or damaging to organisms 2. malicious: showing great bitterness, malice, or hostility virulent criticism 3. irritating: extremely obnoxious or harsh Example: He came down with a very virulent disease Non-virulent would obviously be the opposite of virulent. It is derived from the Latin word ‘virulentus:’ ‘poisoned wound’ or ‘full of poison.’ By MeSH definition: The degree of phogenicity within a group or species of microorganisms or viruses as indicated by case fatality rates and/or the ability of the organism to invade the tissues of the host.
VIRULENT: related words searches. » unpleasant: pronunciation in phonetic transcription. » toxic definition. » highly infective: pronunciation in phonetic transcription. Satisfaction brought it back, that's why the cat has nine lives (English proverb). That which does not kill you, makes you stronger. (Friedrich Nietzsche). The deserter is the brother of the murderer..
virulent. adj. 1. (Pathology). a. (of a microorganism) extremely infective. vir·u·lent. adj. 1. a. Characterized by, causing, or promoting the rapid onset of severe illness. Used of a disease or toxin.
Virulence: The ability of an agent of infection to produce disease. The virulence of a microorganism is a measure of the severity of the disease it causes. 
virulence. the degree of pathogenicity of a microorganism as indicated by case fatality rates and/or its ability to invade the tissues of the host; the competence of any infectious agent to produce pathologic effects. adj., adj vir´ulent. virulence. the degree of pathogenicity of a microorganism as indicated by case fatality rates and/or its ability to invade the tissues of the host; the competence of any infectious agent to produce pathological effects. virulence alteration. attenuation (2).
It can also mean actively poisonous or intensely noxious in reference to poisons, viruses, and bacterium. The word virulent describes effect severity and in discussing pathogens, the degree of infectiousness. It is derived from the Latin word ‘virulentus:’ ‘poisoned wound’ or ‘full of poison.’ By MeSH definition: The degree of phogenicity within a group or species of microorganisms or viruses as indicated by case fatality rates and/or the ability of the organism to invade the tissues of the host.