Platyhelminthes. The phylum name Platyhelminthes literally means flatworms.. Members of this phylum are soft, thin-bodied, leaf or ribbonlike worms, including the familiar planaria of ponds and streams, as well as the flukes and tapeworms parasitic in human and other animal bodies. Many species have other hosts between these two, such as fish or frogs. Trematodes usually have a pair of suckers for crawling and clinging to the host's tissues. Many humans are infected with blood flukes, liver flukes, lung flukes, and other trematode parasites of great medical importance.
This article is about the anatomy. For other meanings, see Rhabdite (disambiguation). Rhabdites (from Gr rhabdos, rod) are rodlike structures in the cells of the epidermis or underlying parenchyma in certain turbellarians, and in the epidermis of nemerteans. They are discharged in mucous secretions. 
All the exclusively parasitic Platyhelminthes form a monophyletic group Neodermata, and it is agreed that these are descended from one small sub-group within the free-living Platyhelminthes. Hence the Turbellaria as traditionally defined are paraphyletic. The Acoelomorpha and the genus Xenoturbella were formerly included in the Turbellaria, but are no longer regarded as Platyhelminthes.
flame cell. n. 1. (Zoology) an organ of excretion in flatworms: a hollow cup-shaped cell containing a bunch of cilia, whose movement draws in waste products and wafts them to the outside through a connecting tubule. A hollow cell in the excretory system of certain invertebrates, including flatworms and rotifers, containing a tuft of rapidly beating cilia that serve to propel waste products into excretory tubules.
Sexual Reproduction. 1  They are hermaphroditic; sexual reproduction by mutual cross-fertilization, Proglottids allow some tapeworms to double back on themselves and self-fertilize. 2  Male systems include variable number of testes, seminal vesicle, fluid glands and a copulatory organ. 3  Female systems include one or many ovaries, oviducts, accessory 4  ... Z 1 Describe the phylum Platyhelminthes in terms of unique and general animal characters. 2  no one unique feature (synapomorphy) unites the entire phylum, although the phylum represents the simplest members of the bilaterian grade of construction. 3  free-living platyhelminths possess rhabdites.
2. Concentrating the sense organs on the head is an advantage to active animals that seek food; this provides an anterior and posterior end and bilateral symmetry. 3. Phyla are Platyhelminthes (flatworms), Nemertea (ribbon worms), and Gnathostomulida (jaw worms).
Noun. 1. flame cell-organ of excretion in flatworms. flatworm, platyhelminth-parasitic or free-living worms having a flattened body. excretory organ, urinary organ-an organ that separates waste substances from the blood and discharges them. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. A hollow cell in the excretory system of certain invertebrates, including flatworms and rotifers, containing a tuft of rapidly beating cilia that serve to propel waste products into excretory tubules.
Platyhelminthes are mostly worm like creatures that are dorsoventrally flattened, meaning they look like a ribbon, this is why they are called names such as Tapeworm, Flatworm, Fluke and Planarian. The Platyhelminthes are a successful phylum with around 25,000 known species divided into four classes. Most Platyhelminthes are parasites on other animals, only the Turbellarians are mostly non-parasitic. A few species are commensalists living in harmony, or mutual benefit with another, normally larger organism