Our solar day is 24 hours, which, generally speaking, is the length of time which elapses between the Sun reaching its highest point in the sky two consecutive times. Our sidereal day is 23 hours and 56 minutes, which is so close to our solar day that we often fail to distinguish between the two. A sidereal day is the length of time which passes between a given fixed star in the sky crossing a given projected meridian (line of longitude).
Since the planets spin on their axes at different rates and travel about the Sun at different speeds as well, the length of one day is different for each planet. For example, on Earth the length of a solar day is 24 hours. But because of its slow rotation and its rapid orbital speed, one solar day on Mercury lasts about as long as 176 days on Earth. Our sidereal day is 23 hours and 56 minutes, which is so close to our solar day that we often fail to distinguish between the two. A sidereal day is the length of time which passes between a given fixed star in the sky crossing a given projected meridian (line of longitude).
The length of one (solar) day on a planet is the time from noon to noon. Our sidereal day is 23 hours and 56 minutes, which is so close to our solar day that we often fail to distinguish between the two. A sidereal day is the length of time which passes between a given fixed star in the sky crossing a given projected meridian (line of longitude).
THE MEANING OF DAY. Those who argue that the word day means long age, point out that the Hebrew word, yom, can have a number of meanings, only one of which is day of 24 hours. 1 They further seek to strengthen their position with the use of Psalm 90:4 and II Peter 3:8, comparing a day to a thousand years. God did not leave the length of the creation days open to question. He told us the exact length of each day. In Exodus 20:11, He said that in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them and rested on the seventh day.. The context of the statement is an emphatic command.
For Mars, the year is nearly twice as long as ours, 686.98 days, and the rotation period is a little longer than ours, 24 hours 37 minutes 22.66 seconds (this is often erroneously listed as the length of the day). For planets which are even further out, the motion around the Sun is even smaller and the time required to compensate for it is only a few seconds. For Jupiter the difference between the rotation period and the length of the day is about 3 seconds; and for Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, the difference is about 1 second.
A day is a unit of time. In common usage, it is an interval equal to 24 hours. It also can mean the consecutive period of time during which the Sun is above the horizon, also known as daytime. The period of time during which the Earth completes one rotation with respect to the Sun is called a solar day. This phenomenon is due to tides raised by the Moon which slow Earth's rotation. Because of the way the second is defined, the mean length of a day is now about 86 400.002 seconds, and is increasing by about 1.7 milliseconds per century (an average over the last 2 700 years).
It is always harder to determine the length of a day of a gas giant than it is to determine the length of a day of a terrestrial planet. Saturn’s day was measured at 10 hours 39 minutes and 24 seconds in the ‘80s. Then it was measured at approximately 10 hours 45 minutes and 45 seconds. A day on Venus is 243 Earth days. Venus’ day is actually longer than its year. It only takes 224.7 Earth days for the planet to orbit the Sun. We measure a day on Earth as a period of 24 hours, but it actually takes the planet 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds to rotate on its axis. This measurement is actually called a sidereal day and is the length of time it takes the Earth to come back to the same position relative to the star
We are accustomed to thinking of a day as a period of 24 hours. However, that definition is a narrow one that only applies to our own planet. A day is the length of time it takes for a planet to complete one rotation on its axis – 360°. Since all of the planets rotate at different speeds, the length of a day on each one differs. planets of our Solar System. Compared to Earth, Mercury has a very long day. A day on Venus is 243 Earth days. Venus’ day is actually longer than its year. It only takes 224.7 Earth days for the planet to orbit the Sun. We measure a day on Earth as a period of 24 hours, but it actually takes the planet 23 hours 56 minutes and 4 seconds to rotate on its axis. This measurement is actually called a sidereal day and is the length of time it takes the Earth to come back to the same position relative to the stars
On average over the year this day is equivalent to 24 hours (86 400 seconds). A day, in the sense of daytime that is distinguished from night-time, is commonly defined as the period during which sunlight directly reaches the ground, assuming that there are no local obstacles. This phenomenon is due to tides raised by the Moon which slow Earth's rotation. Because of the way the second is defined, the mean length of a day is now about 86 400.002 seconds, and is increasing by about 1.7 milliseconds per century (an average over the last 2 700 years).