The animation below shows how a regular cam and a performance cam have different valve timing. Notice that the exhaust (red circle) and intake (blue circle) cycles overlap a lot more on the performance cam. Because of this, cars with this type of cam tend to run very roughly at idle. A fixed camshaft is, therefore, always a compromise. This is why carmakers have developed schemes to vary the cam profile as the engine speed changes. There are several different arrangements of camshafts on engines.
A camshaft is the element of an internal combustion engine the purpose of which is to open and close the valves. Working in conjunction with the crankshaft, the camshaft rotates at half the speed of the crankshaft in a 4-stroke engine cycle and at the same speed in a 2-stroke engine.
A stock camshaft usually has a duration of around 270 degrees but what differentiates a 270 degree performance camshafts from a stock camshafts is increased valve lift and a much faster rate of valve lift. With a faster valve lift rate, the valve reaches full lift quicker and remains at full lift for longer. A performance camshaft for a naturally aspirated engine will have a duration in the range of 270 degrees to 310 degrees or more: 1  270 degree camshaft described as a 'mild' camshaft. 2  310 or more degree camshaft being described as a 'wild' race camshaft.
A properly working engine requires precise timing between the rotation of the camshaft and crankshaft. The cams attached to the camshaft are instrumental in the harmonious opening and closing of the valves that provide an engine with its power. Working in conjunction with the crankshaft, the camshaft rotates at half the speed of the crankshaft in a 4-stroke engine cycle and at the same speed in a 2-stroke engine.
A camshaft is a shaft to which a cam is fastened or of which a cam forms an integral part. Cams that have too high a resultant valve lift, and at high rpm, can result in what is called valve bounce, where the valve spring tension is insufficient to keep the valve following the cam at its apex.
When you increase the RPM, the 10 to 20 RPM configuration for the camshaft does not work well. If the engine is running at 4,000 RPM, the valves are opening and closing 2,000 times every minute, or 33 times every second. A fixed camshaft is, therefore, always a compromise. This is why carmakers have developed schemes to vary the cam profile as the engine speed changes. There are several different arrangements of camshafts on engines.
What is camshaft. A car camshaft is a rotating cylindrical shaft used to regulate the injection of vaporized fuel in an internal combustion engine. These are occasionally confused with the crankshaft of the engine, where the reciprocating motion of the pistons is converted into rotational energy. A performance camshaft for a naturally aspirated engine will have a duration in the range of 270 degrees to 310 degrees or more: 1  270 degree camshaft described as a 'mild' camshaft. 2  310 or more degree camshaft being described as a 'wild' race camshaft.
Confidence votes 131. The cam sensor tells the computer where your cam is in it's rotation. The info is used to determine spark timing and fuel delivery. if it's bad, you'll run rough or not at all. Vehicles with distributors will sometimes integrate thet sensor with the distributor. 
The cam shaft has lobs on it which are egg shaped and they rub against the top of the valve and when the egg shaped part of the lob rubs on the top of the valve it opens it up and allows the air to enter the engine and the same thing happens for the exhaust valve. Best Answer: the cam shaft rotates and it makes the pistons go up and down in order for the proper combustion cycle. if the cam shaft is broken the car will not run. they usually do not break but wear down from usage or bend. Source(s): overhaulin' and spike power block. Steven J · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Just a quick explanation on how an engine works and what the camshaft does. Its very simple to understand when you see it spin. Engines are beautiful art in my opinion. 1  Entertainment. 