Assemblage is an artistic form or medium usually created on a defined substrate that consists of three-dimensional elements projecting out of or from the substrate. It is similar to collage, a two-dimensional medium. The origin of the word (in its artistic sense) can be traced back to the early 1950s, when Jean Dubuffet created a series of collages of butterfly wings, which he titled assemblages d'empreintes. However, both Marcel Duchamp, Pablo Picasso and others had been working with found objects for many years prior to Dubuffet.
assemblage-the social act of assembling; they demanded the right of assembly. gathering, assembly. group action-action taken by a group of people. mobilisation, mobilization-act of marshaling and organizing and making ready for use or action; mobilization of the country's economic resources. assemblage. n. 1. a number of things or persons assembled together; collection; assembly. 2. (Cookery) a list of dishes served at a meal or the dishes themselves. 3. the act or process of assembling or the state of being assembled
For example, one can refer to the stone tool assemblage or ceramic assemblage, that is, the array of stone tools or ceramic objects found at a site, in a region, or dating to a particular time period.. Assemblages of sites being destroyed was an issue in early archaeology. 
Definition: (noun) - As one familiar with the word assembly might assume, assemblage is a form of sculpture comprised of found objects arranged in such a way that they create a piece. These objects can be anything organic or man-made. The important thing to know about assemblage is that it is supposed to be three-dimensional and different from collage, which is supposed to be two-dimensional (though both are similarly eclectic in nature and composition). But!
noun. The definition of an assemblage is the act of getting together or putting something together. An example of an assemblage is a group of people inviting others to join them at a protest. In art, an assemblage is the creation of sculpture through collection and unification of a variety of items that bear no relation, or the piece of art that is created as a result of this process. 
Assemblage art was born as an act of recycling and repurposing. Fundamentally, it is accomplished by taking something that is broken (or without use in its current form) and putting it together with other found objects to create a piece of art. Assemblage is an art form for every creative person who wants to experiment with putting uncommon objects together -- just as one would complete a jigsaw puzzle. Projects are fun to work on with friends and family or on your own.
Steampunk jewelry is a form of assemblage, although it's a more specific niche of the art form. Steampunk items are fashioned mostly from clockwork, gears, and metals, and the end result has a Victorian feel. This fits well into assemblage, and the two techniques are often intermingled. Assemblage is an art form for every creative person who wants to experiment with putting uncommon objects together -- just as one would complete a jigsaw puzzle. Projects are fun to work on with friends and family or on your own.
It is a kind of assemblage of societies that constitute a new one, capable of increasing, by means of new associations, till they arrive to such a degree of power as to be able to provide for the security of the united body. assemblage. n. 1. a number of things or persons assembled together; collection; assembly. 2. (Cookery) a list of dishes served at a meal or the dishes themselves. 3. the act or process of assembling or the state of being assembled
I love assemblage art that has the look of an art piece, but in a small size that makes it wearable. Many times I find beautiful assemblage jewelry (such as necklaces and brooches) that are far too large to actually wear. Assemblage is an art form for every creative person who wants to experiment with putting uncommon objects together -- just as one would complete a jigsaw puzzle. Projects are fun to work on with friends and family or on your own.