Astronaut training. Before they can fly in space, astronauts have to undergo hundreds of hours of training. This is split into three main sections. First, newcomers who want to qualify as astronauts have to pass a one-year course of basic training. The candidates learn about space technology and science, basic medical skills, and how the International Space Station (ISS) works. They also become familiar with scuba diving
For these types of missions the training to prepare astronauts will likely include training as doctors, scientists, engineers, technicians, pilots, and geologists. In addition there will be a focus on the psychological aspects of long-duration missions where crew is largely isolated. Increment-Specific Training starts only after an astronaut has been assigned to a flight. This phase lasts 18 months and prepares them for their role on their assigned mission. During this phase crewmembers as well as backup crews will train together.
Learning Resources. Videos. The Train Like an Astronaut activities each have a video with step-by-step procedures for the instructor. NASA astronauts joined in the adventure by explaining how each activity relates to their experiences in training for space exploration. Points Rubric. The Points Rubric is for tracking kids' progress. 
A typical spaceflight these days for a NASA astronaut lasts six months on the International Space Station, but some astronauts are now being assigned to year-long flights to learn more about the human body. Science will take up most of an astronaut's time in orbit. Astronaut candidacy and path to flight. Once selected, NASA does not consider you to be a full astronaut yet. There are two years of basic training ahead in which you are considered an astronaut candidate.. The candidates receive basic classroom learning about the International Space Station and spaceflight generally.
Once they are selected, astronauts begin a training program that includes courses in astronomy, the space shuttle, space history, and experiments. Not everyone who is trained goes into space because NASA wants the best of the best - meaning the best people of all the people qualified to go into space. Preparation to go into space begins at school. All astronauts take science courses through high school and go to college to take science or engineering. Some are in the military. Many also have pilot's licenses and scuba diving experience.
If you are going to be a crew member on the ISS, you will also have to take language classes. You will need to be able to talk with the Russian Mission Control Center. Space Vehicle Mock-up Facility. Image to left: In the Space Vehicle Mockup Facility, astronauts practice what they will be doing in space. To practice extravehicular activities, or space walks, astronauts go underwater. The astronauts use the Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory (NBL), a huge swimming pool.. The NBL pool is 62 meters (202 feet) in length, 31 meters (102 feet) in width and 12 meters (40 feet) in depth.
Astronaut training takes years before an individual is selected for a particular mission. Astronauts prepare for that launch day with a series of medical tests to ensure they … are healthy for the launch and are expected to stay healthy through the mission. Preparation to go into space begins at school. All astronauts take science courses through high school and go to college to take science or engineering. Some are in the military. Many also have pilot's licenses and scuba diving experience.
Then the real work begins. It can take up to two years of training to become a fully qualified astronaut. Candidates must learn the basics of the Space Shuttle and the International Space Station. They must also learn how to be part of a team by flying the NASA T-38 training jets. Astronauts also take classes. They must learn many things besides science. To practice extravehicular activities, or space walks, astronauts go underwater. The astronauts use the Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory (NBL), a huge swimming pool.. The NBL pool is 62 meters (202 feet) in length, 31 meters (102 feet) in width and 12 meters (40 feet) in depth.