Blood pressure is given as two numbers, which is the systolic pressure over the diastolic pressure. For example, a blood pressure reading of 120/80 means the systolic pressure is 120 and the diastolic pressure is 80. 
Use the blood pressure chart below to see what your blood pressure means. The blood pressure chart is suitable for adults of any age. (The level for high blood pressure does not change with age.). Blood pressure readings have two numbers, for example 140/90mmHg. The top number is your systolic blood pressure. 1 More than 120 over 80 and less than 140 over 90 (120/80-140/90): You have a normal blood pressure reading but it is a little higher than it should be, and you should try to lower it. 2  Make healthy changes to your lifestyle.
Using this blood pressure chart: To work out what your blood pressure readings mean, just find your top number (systolic) on the left side of the blood pressure chart and read across, and your bottom number (diastolic) on the bottom of the blood pressure chart. Where the two meet is your blood pressure. 1 More than 120 over 80 and less than 140 over 90 (120/80-140/90): You have a normal blood pressure reading but it is a little higher than it should be, and you should try to lower it. 2  Make healthy changes to your lifestyle.
Blood pressure (BP) is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels. When used without further specification, blood pressure usually refers to the arterial pressure in the systemic circulation. It is usually measured at a person's upper arm. Blood pressure that is low due to a disease state is called hypotension, and pressure that is consistently high is hypertension. Both have many causes which can range from mild to severe.
Range Diagram Textual Description. The 1st Number: Systolic pressure is the blood pressure when the heart muscle contracts. The 2nd Number: Diastolic pressure is the blood pressure when the heart is relaxed. The BP numbers shown in the chart represent Typical systolic-diastolic pairs. 
Here's a look at the four blood pressure categories and what they mean for you. If your readings fall into two different categories, your correct blood pressure category is the higher category. For example, if your blood pressure reading is 125/95 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg), you have stage 1 hypertension. Blood pressure readings fall into four general categories, ranging from normal to stage 2 high blood pressure (hypertension). The level of your blood pressure determines what kind of treatment you may need.
The bottom number, called the diastolic pressure, is the measurement as the heart relaxes between beats. Normal blood pressure is a systolic pressure of less than 120 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) and a diastolic pressure of less than 80 mm Hg, or 120/80 mm Hg, according to the American Heart Association (AHA). Having a blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm Hg is considered high blood pressure or hypertension. A blood pressure level between normal and hypertension, is called prehypertension, meaning it is higher than normal, but not high enough to be considered hypertension.
Blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic (maximum) pressure over diastolic (minimum) pressure and is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). It is one of the vital signs along with respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature. Blood pressure that is low due to a disease state is called hypotension, and pressure that is consistently high is hypertension. Both have many causes which can range from mild to severe.
Ideally, we should all have a blood pressure below 120 over 80 (120/80). This is the ideal blood pressure for people wishing to have good health. At this level, we have a much lower risk of heart disease or stroke. If your blood pressure is optimal, this is great news. By following our healthy living advice, you will be able to keep it this way. If your blood pressure is above 120/80mmHg, you will need to lower it. Most adults in the UK have blood pressure readings in the range from 120 over 80 (120/80) to 140 over 90 (140/90). If your blood pressure is within this range, you should be taking steps to bring it down or to stop it rising any further. Our five top tips will show you how