Printer Friendly Version (PDF). Garden peas (Pisum sativum L.) are cool-season crops that include the common green English pea and the edible-podded pea. English peas are shelled and only the seed eaten, whereas edible-podded peas are eaten whole. 
Peas. Pea is a frost-hardy, cool-season vegetable that can be grown throughout most of the United States, wherever a cool season of sufficient duration exists. For gardening purposes, peas may be classified as garden peas (English peas), snap peas and snow peas (sugar peas). Selection & Storage. There are two common varieties of peas, green garden peas that need shelling and edible-pod peas that are eaten whole. Snow peas, sugar snap peas Chinese pea pods and many others fall into this category. They are low fiber pods with small wrinkled peas inside. The entire pod is eaten, cooked or raw.
Carmel's Crunchy Pea Salad. Cashews and crumbled bacon make the crunch in this wonderful salad. If you make it in the summer and have fresh-from-the-garden peas, great, but frozen peas are super too. Peas, celery and chopped green scallions are folded into sour cream and then topped with the cashews and the bacon. 
How to Sow Peas. Thin to stand 4-6 apart when seedlings are 1-2 high. Peas may need extra water under dry conditions, but they often mature before dry weather sets in. They do not perform well in overly wet conditions, and the seeds can rot in wet soil before they germinate. Coat untreated seed with an inoculant. Harvesting Peas. Grow peas with transplants of cool season vegetables such as cabbages and broccoli, direct-sown leafy vegetables such as lettuces and salad greens, and direct-sown root vegetables such as carrots, beets and radishes.
Matar Pulao (Rice with Peas). This is very easy recipe, with basmati rice and green peas. It is very mild and fragrant, and great as a side dish, or for those picky kids who don't like their peas. The word 'matar' means green peas in Urdu. Mushy Peas I. Mushy Peas are a great side dish with entrees such as fried cod or savory salmon, and sides like tater tots. Note: You can add more liquid (water or cream) depending how mushy you want your peas. Use low fat milk if you're calorie-conscious.
Pea Basics. Try these sweet, tender vegetables in a salad, side dish, or stir-fry, or eat them raw as a snack. Garden or English peas must be shelled before eating. Edible-podded peas include the popular sugar snap pea and its kin, as well as flat snow peas. 
Harvesting peas. 1  Peas should be harvested regularly to encourage more pods to be produced. 2  The pods at the bottom of each plant will mature first so begin harvesting from low down and work your way up as the pods mature. 3  All peas can be frozen but they are sweetest and tastiest when eaten freshly picked from the garden. How to grow peas. Fresh peas picked straight from the garden are a revelation! Once you’ve tasted how sweet they really taste, you’ll never want to eat frozen peas again. Better still, growing pea plants is incredibly easy and you can achieve a good yield in a small space.
Snap Peas. Snap peas are also known as sugar snap peas, and are a cross between snow peas and garden peas. The whole pod is eaten and has a crunchy texture and very sweet flavor. Snap peas may be eaten raw or cooked. Garden Peas. Garden peas are also sometimes called sweet peas or English peas. The pods are firm and rounded, and the round peas inside need to removed, or shelled, before eating (the pods are discarded).