There is only one type of scar. The appearance of a scar depends on the nature of the wound that produced the damage, the anatomical location of the wound, and a variety of genetic factors that are different for each individual. Scars facts. 1  Scars always occur when tissues have been significantly damaged and repaired. 2  Scars produce changes that disturb the physical architecture of normal skin or other tissue. 3  Scars can occur after physical trauma or as part of a disease process.
There are many different types of scars, including the following: 1  keloid scars. 2  These are thick, rounded, irregular clusters of scar tissue that grow at the site of a wound on the skin, but beyond the edges of the borders of the wound. 3  They often appear red or darker in color, as compared to the surrounding normal skin. 1 chemical peels. 2  Chemical peel are often used to minimize sun-damaged skin, irregular pigment, and superficial scars. 3  The top layer of skin is removed with a chemical application to the skin. 4  By removing the top layer, the skin regenerates, often improving the skin's appearance.
Scars left from acne damage, acne scars are usually indented into the skin to form small pits. Not many people know that stretch marks are a type of scarring, they are caused by the skin ‘stretching’ and tearing due to pregnancy, rapid weight gain/weight loss or body building. Skin burns are often called contracture scars which caused the skin to tighten and may make moving the area feel quite uncomfortable.
Scars are a natural part of the body's healing process. A scar results from the biologic process of wound repair in the skin and other tissues. Most wounds, except for very minor ones, result in some degree of scarring. Scars can result from accidents, diseases, skin conditions such as acne, or surgeries. Both of these kinds of scars are more common in younger and dark-skinned people. Some scars can have a sunken or pitted appearance. This kind of scarring occurs when underlying structures supporting the skin (for example, fat or muscle) are lost. Some surgical scars have this appearance, as do some scars from acne.
1 Surgery. 2  Although it will not remove a scar, surgery can be used to alter a scar's shape or make it less noticeable. 3  Surgery is not recommended in cases of hypertrophic or keloid scarring (raised scars) because there is a risk of recurring scars as well as more severe scarring that results from the treatment. Both of these kinds of scars are more common in younger and dark-skinned people. Some scars can have a sunken or pitted appearance. This kind of scarring occurs when underlying structures supporting the skin (for example, fat or muscle) are lost. Some surgical scars have this appearance, as do some scars from acne.
A scar is the body's natural way of healing and replacing lost or damaged skin. A scar is usually composed of fibrous tissue. Scars may be formed for many different reasons, including as a result of infections, surgery, injuries, or inflammation of tissue. Scars may appear anywhere on the body, and the composition of a scar may vary-appearing flat, lumpy, sunken, colored, painful, or itchy. 1 chemical peels. 2  Chemical peel are often used to minimize sun-damaged skin, irregular pigment, and superficial scars. 3  The top layer of skin is removed with a chemical application to the skin. 4  By removing the top layer, the skin regenerates, often improving the skin's appearance.
Scars are areas of fibrous tissue (fibrosis) that replace normal skin after injury. A scar results from the biological process of wound repair in the skin and other tissues of the body. Thus, scarring is a natural part of the healing process. With the exception of very minor lesions, every wound (e.g., after accident, disease, or surgery) results in some degree of scarring. An exception to this are animals with complete regeneration, which regrow tissue without scar formation.
1 Although it will not remove a scar, surgery can be used to alter a scar's shape or make it less noticeable. 2  Surgery is not recommended in cases of hypertrophic or keloid scarring (raised scars) because there is a risk of recurring scars as well as more severe scarring that results from the treatment. Both of these kinds of scars are more common in younger and dark-skinned people. Some scars can have a sunken or pitted appearance. This kind of scarring occurs when underlying structures supporting the skin (for example, fat or muscle) are lost. Some surgical scars have this appearance, as do some scars from acne.
Flat, pale scars. The most common type of scar is the flat, pale scar that forms as a result of the body's natural healing process. Initially, they may be red or dark and raised after the wound has healed, but will become paler and flatter naturally over time as the injury heals. Scars on the skin may appear when a cut or other injury is in the process of healing. The different types of scars vary in appearance.