A study found this as a 'major barrier.'. For many qualified immigrants, the dream of U.S. citizenship is priceless — but the reality unaffordable, say some advocates. Citizenship application fees have spiked to $595 in the past 15 years, up a staggering $500 since 1997. But that’s not the bottom line for would-be Americans: With fingerprint costs, the current total is a whopping $680
by FreeAdvice staff. The filing fee as of 2010 for submission of the Form N-400 is $680.00. This fee includes the cost for the application ($595.00) and a biometric fee of $85.00. The biometric fee covers the expense of being fingerprinted and photographed after your application is submitted. The $680.00 is the standard filing fee. However, you may qualify for exceptions. You are not required to pay the filing fee if you are submitting a request for naturalization because of your service in the military.
$680 is the last fee in a long line of fees. It's after you have a permanent green card-just before you get citizenship-that final hurdle is $680. If you want to talk about the whole process-that depends upon the process and the person, I've seen people spend up to $10,000. We’re in the business of breaking even.”. The USCIS is supposed to do a fee study every two years and propose fee levels proportional to the costs they’re incurring; those fees then get set through federal rulemaking. In 1997, the fee for a naturalization application was $95, less than 15% of what it is today. The most recent jump came in 2007, when the USCIS proposed increasing the naturalization application fee about 85%, from $320 to the current rate
In addition to the processing fee, all 5(1) applications must include the $100 right of citizenship fee. There is no processing fee for applications for a 5(5) grant; however, the $100 right of citizenship fee must be included for all applicants aged 18 and over. 
U.S. Citizenship Filing Fee Exceptions. The $680.00 is the standard filing fee. However, you may qualify for exceptions. You are not required to pay the filing fee if you are submitting a request for naturalization because of your service in the military. If you are over 75 years of age, you are not required to submit the extra $85.00 for the biometric fee
You are eligible to apply for citizenship at no cost if: •You receive public benefits (i.e. TANF, SSI, LINK, Medicaid). •Your family earns 150% of the poverty level or less, according to the table below: To check the most recent poverty guidelines for the fee waiver please visit the following site: http://www.uscis .... To see if you qualify to apply for citizenship at no cost, please bring the following documents to the workshop: •Bring last year’s federal income tax return. •Unemployment checks and letter (if applicable), or LINK, MEDICAL or TANF Card with a letter from the agency stating that you receive those benefits.
The filing fee as of 2010 for submission of the Form N-400 is $680.00. This fee includes the cost for the application ($595.00) and a biometric fee of $85.00. The $680.00 is the standard filing fee. However, you may qualify for exceptions. You are not required to pay the filing fee if you are submitting a request for naturalization because of your service in the military.
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) offers a fee waiver to eligible applicants applying for certain immigration benefits. USCIS outlines the forms that qualify for a fee waiver in its 2011 Policy Memorandum. Fortunately, the Form N-400, Application for Naturalization, is one of the applications that is eligible for a fee waiver as outlined in the Policy Memorandum. Applying for U.S. citizenship is an exciting moment for most immigrants, and is the last step in the U.S. immigration processes. Often, immigrants have spent years of waiting, attended multiple immigration interviews, and paid thousands of dollars in filing fees just to get to this point.
Eligible residents must fill out U.S. Citizenship and Immigration forms that require a total of $680 in fees. For many qualified immigrants, the dream of U.S. citizenship is priceless — but the reality unaffordable, say some advocates. Citizenship application fees have spiked to $595 in the past 15 years, up a staggering $500 since 1997. But that’s not the bottom line for would-be Americans: With fingerprint costs, the current total is a whopping $680