Well commonsense says that if you have a female husky, you would get a male Doberman. But if you are looking for a tough guy, and you have these pre conceived notions about the breed.. It's likely a good idea that you do more research on the breed. It is a mistake to buy 2 puppies at the same time.
I've heard people say you can never keep a male Doberman with other male dogs, and that they do not get along with male dogs, and this would be a concern because I plan to take the dog in social situations. I've heard that males are more quick to temper, and more protective, and that females are more willful.
A female is less likely to wage a dominance battle that escalates into aggression with a human, but females can be cunning and resourceful in getting their own way and in the human mind they are often perceived as being more “sneaky” than male dogs.
If any difference with regard to aggression was observed, the female puppies, being smaller than the males, had to be a little more aggressive to keep from being pushed around by their larger litter mates. Both male and female Dobermans are strong willed and highly trainable.
Male dogs are often bolder and more aggressive than females, although in some breeds it is the female who is sharper and more aggressive while the males might be described as goofy or klutzy or big softies.. Male dogs have genitals that are easy to see, which makes some owners feel self-conscious.
Female hamsters are technically considered to be more aggressive than male hamsters. Although that is not always true, the female hamster has a motherly instinct whether or no … t she has young. But, in most cases, it isn't the gender of hamster that makes them more aggressive.
Besides being highly intelligent, the Doberman’s voracious need to please his handler contribute to his high trainability-both male and female. The main difference between the male and female Doberman is size. The male is much larger than the female, often by two or more inches of height and 20 to 30 pounds in weight. Much of this size is due to increased muscle mass in the male. Healthy male Dobermans are muscled like body builders while the females are more smooth and elegant. Additionally, we have an opinion on a difference between male and female Dobermans based on the many Dobermans we have raised and worked with.