Tempur pedic Mattress is a brand of memory foam mattress. They are practically synonymous to each other because Tempur pedic is one of the first companies to produce this temp … erature-sensitive mattress. However, there are also a lot of other memory foam beds today and not only Tempur pedic.
Consumers should also be aware that a memory foam mattress isn't all memory foam. Usually, there are at least two layers, and the top or comfort layer is memory foam. Beneath that, there's a support layer that typically has some spring to it. For example, some 12 mattresses may have only 2 of
Support layers on a Tempur-pedic mattress lend it added responsiveness to every movement of your body. You’ll also find that the soft mattress top is able to provide pressure relief with its innovative design and deep-reaching support.
Although Tempur-Pedic mattresses have a reputation for being among the priciest solutions to a good night's sleep, over 7 million people have made that choice and are resting easy, content with their memory foam beds.
Tempur-Pedic is the brand that put memory foam mattresses on the map back in the early 90's. Since then, memory foam mattresses have grown exponentially in popularity among all types of sleepers.
Not all mattresses are created equal and not all memory foam mattress companies provide perfect products. Our goal in early 2010 was to compare the industry leader-Tempurpedic- against other strong companies in the mattress industry. Tempurpedic is a strong company with a strong product line.
Tempur-Pedic Mattresses, made of a modified memory foam material can range in price from $4,949 to $699 depending on the retailer and size of mattress needed.
Tempurpedic foam used in memory mattresses is 5.34 lb which means that a cube of Tempur material, one foot in each direction, weighs a whopping 5.34lb.
TEMPUR-Choice Collection Mattresses. The TEMPUR-Choice™ mattress offers several zones of adjustable comfort to create a completely customized sleeping experience that leaves you fully rested. Each night's sleep on the TEMPUR-Choice™ is unique to your sleep preferences.