Vena cava is one of the two veins (superior vena cava and inferior vena cava) that drain blood from all parts of the body (except the heart) into the right atrium of the heart. The superior vena cava returns blood from the head, neck, and arms to the heart. Deoxygenated blood is delivered into the right atrium. It then enters the right ventricle, from where it is pumped out into the pulmonary artery and to the lungs. Oxygenated blood returning in the pulmonary veins flows into the left atrium.
1 Oxygen-poor blood returns from the body to the heart through the superior vena cava (SVC) and inferior vena cava (IVC), the two main veins that bring blood back to the heart. 2  The oxygen-poor blood enters the right atrium (RA), or the right upper chamber of the heart. 1 The oxygen-poor blood enters the right atrium (RA), or the right upper chamber of the heart. 2  From there, the blood flows through the tricuspid valve (TV) into the right ventricle (RV), or the right low
The right atrium of the heart receives blood from the Inferior vena cava and the Superior vena cava. The blood then passes through the Tricuspid valve and then into the right … ventricle. 
From the vena cava (superior and inferior), the blood enters the heart (right atrium), is pumped into the right ventricle, and then pumped into the lungs (through the Pulmonary Arteries), where carbon dioxide is exchanged for oxygen. The Inferior vena cava-just like the Superior vena cava -, returns blood to the heart. When blood is returning to the heart, that blood is already circulated in the body, therefore it is already downloaded the oxygen to the body tissues, and picked up the carbon dioxide from them.
Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium. Left Side. Oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs to your heart's left atrium through the pulmonary veins. 
In tricuspid valve regurgitation, these pulsations are very strong. The inferior vena cava (or IVC) is the large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_atriu... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superior_ve... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inferior_ve..
1 Right Atrium: Receives blood returning to the heart from the superior and inferior venae cavae. 2  The superior vena cava returns de-oxygenated blood from the head, neck, arm and chest regions of the body to the right atrium. Function of the Atria. 1 
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium through three major veins: the superior and inferior vena cava and the coronary sinus. The superior vena cava returns all of the blood to the heart from tissues superior to the heart in the head, neck, arms and upper thorax. Likewise, the inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from tissues inferior to the heart, including the legs, abdomen and lower thorax. The right atrium is one of the two atria of the heart, which function as receiving chambers for blood entering the heart. It is located to the right of the left atrium and superior to the much larger and more muscular right ventricle.
Best Answer: a. The right atrium receives deoxygenated blood from the superior vena cava (which ultimately gets all venous blood). From there it goes into the right ventricle, to the lungs, back to the left atrium, to the left ventricle, to the aorta, to the capillaries, to the veins, back to the superior vena cava. Report Abuse. Right Atrium --------------------------------- * Deoxygenated blood from the body enters the right atrium. * It flows through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. The term tricuspid refers to the three flaps of tissue that make up the valve.