Lunging, sometimes known as longing, is a very useful training tool. When lunging a horse,the handler in a circle. The handler controls the horse by using aids that ask the horse to move faster or slower, bend on a circle or move closer to or farther away from you.
Lunging is a method we use to exercise a horse or to teach him something new without a rider on his back. A horse is controlled by the person doing the lunging, so we also use lunging for teaching riders; the person on the ground controls the horse's speed and direction, and the rider can focus on him/herself. Going around in a circle is much more difficult for a horse than moving in a straight line.
You can attach your lunge line to the horse's halter, to his bridle, or you can use headgear specifically designed for lunging, called a lunging cavesson. You can even free lunge, which is lunging without a line. Free lunging is typically performed in a round pen or arena, although it can even be done in a field.
To lunge your horse, it should be outfitted with a lunging cavesson or a sturdy halter. A cavesson is not a necessity and many horses are trained to lunge without one. Lead your horse to the ring or arena. Place your horse where you want it to travel and walk to the center of the circle you want your horse to work on.
Horse lunging is an important method for exercising a horse or training a horse without a rider on its back. Lunge lines, whips and side reins are necessary pieces of lunging equipment when training horses in this manner.
see all. Horse lunging is a useful exercise for both horse and handler. Lunging is a technique that is invaluable in the training of your horse and can’t be accomplished without the proper lunging equipment. When used properly, lunge exercise equipment can also aid in the training of the rider.
Horse lunging is a useful exercise for both horse and handler. Lunging is a technique that is invaluable in the training of your horse and can’t be accomplished without the proper lunging equipment. When used properly, lunge exercise equipment can also aid in the training of the rider.
Lungeing is a technique used for training or exercising the horse from the ground. It can also be used to aid in the training of the rider via lunge lessons. This technique is very effective and is useful for anyone at any level.