by Matt T. Rosenberg The Mercator projection was developed in 1569 by Gerardus Mercator as a navigation tool. Like the Peters map, the grid is rectangular and lines of latitude and longitude are all parallel. The Mercator map was designed as an aid to navigators since straight lines on the Mercator projection are loxodromes or rhumb lines -- representing lines of constant compass bearing -- perfect for true direction. Robinson further reiterated this position in his first edition of his Elements of Cartography textbook, issued in 1953, when he called the Mercator projection of little use for purposes other than navigation.. The Mercator map is still used for navigation but that's all it should be used for.
Mercator. Used for navigation or maps of equatorial regions. Any straight line on the map is a rhumb line (line of constant direction). Directions along a rhumb line are true between any two points on map, but a rhumb line is usually not the shortest distance between points. The degree of variation depends on the projection used in making the map. Map projection —A map projection is a systematic representation of a round body such as the Earth or a flat (plane) surface. Each map projection has specific properties that make it useful for specific purposes.
The geodesic may be plotted on a gnomonic map, and later transferred to a Mercator map and split in loxodromes piecewise. This projection was possibly first used by Etzlaub ca. 1511; however, it was for sure only widely known after Mercator's atlas of 1569. Since a rigorous underlying mathematics was not available at the time, Mercator probably defined the graticule by geometric construction; E.Wright formally presented equations in 1599.
Even if you've never seen Gerardus Mercator, you've almost certainly seen his work. His Mercator projection map, invented in 1569, was the primary map that navigators used for years. It's the form that many maps still come in today. 
Mercator. Without a doubt, the most famous map projection is the Mercator projection. In fact, the Mercator projection was the first projection regularly identified in atlases. It is a cylindrical map projection that is a product of its time. His second contribution was a map that still bears his name the Mercator projection, published in 1569. Mercator called his map A New and Enlarged Description of the Earth with Corrections for Use in Navigation. No wonder future cartographers and laymen simply called it
The transverse Mercator map projection is an adaptation of the standard Mercator projection. The transverse version is widely used in national and international mapping systems around the world, including the UTM. Since the central meridian of the transverse Mercator can be chosen at will, it may be used to construct highly accurate maps (of narrow width) anywhere on the globe. The secant, ellipsoidal form of the transverse Mercator is the most widely applied of all projections for accurate large scale maps.
For this reason, the Transverse Mercator map projection is applied to regions with a north-south orientation. Although it isn't used (and can't be) to project the whole world in a single map, the Transverse Mercator is used to map the whole world in pieces more exactly, in a series of adjacent strips. His second contribution was a map that still bears his name the Mercator projection, published in 1569. Mercator called his map A New and Enlarged Description of the Earth with Corrections for Use in Navigation. No wonder future cartographers and laymen simply called it the Mercator projection.
The distortion of the Mercator Map increases as you move north and south from the equator. On Mercator's map Antarctica appears to be a huge continent that wraps around the earth and Greenland appears to be just as large as South America although Greenland is merely one-eighth the size of South America. The same is true for the surface of the earth and that's why we use map projections. The term map projection can be thought of literally as a projection. If we were to place a light bulb inside a translucent globe and project the image onto a wall-we'd have a map
A modern rendering by John Snyder of the double-cordiform projection used for Mercator's 1538 world map. Reduced slightly from Snyder, Flattening the Earth, 37, fig. 1.27. Mercator’s next publication was a detailed 34 by 46 inch (87 by 117 cm) map of Flanders, printed as four sheets in 1540. A complete history of the Mercator projection, it includes the down-and-dirty details of the flap that Arno Peters created with his misguided egotism and fringe ideas in the cartographic world.…This book might accomplish the impossible: actually get the interested layman to understand the basics of map projections.
Linear scale —Linear scale is the relation between a distance on a map and the corresponding distance on the Earth. Scale varies from place to place on every map. The degree of variation depends on the projection used in making the map. Map projection —A map projection is a systematic representation of a round body such as the Earth or a flat (plane) surface. Each map projection has specific properties that make it useful for specific purposes.