Report Abuse. For versions of Word before 2007: 1. Select the picture you inserted into the document. 2. Go to the Format menu, and select Picture. 3. Click the Wrapping tab 4. Set it to square or tight 5. tada! For Microsoft Word 2007: 1. Double click the picture 2. In the Format tab, click text wrapping 3. Choose Square Or Tight.
Insert a picture from a webpage. Open your document. From a webpage, right-click the picture you want, and then click Copy or Copy image. In your document, right-click where you want to insert the picture, and then click an option under Paste Options. Insert a picture from a scanner. You can scan images into OneNote and then paste them into your document. Here’s how: In OneNote, open or create the page where you want to insert the scan and click here you want the scan to appear. Click Insert Scanned Image.
Text Box. Open Word. Click Insert.. Click Picture and select a picture to place in the document. Modify the picture as needed with the Picture Tools toolbar. You can also resize the picture with the sizing handles on the sides and corner of the graphic. Click Insert, then Text Box.. Click a text box style. 
while word does not let you type directly onto a pasted picture it does let you add text to autoshapes by turning your picture into an autoshape you can type directly on it follow these steps right click any toolbar click drawing click autoshapes on the drawing toolbar point to basic shapes and click rectangle click and drag in your document where you want to position the rectangle navigate to the picture and click insert click ok with the shape still selected right click the shape and select add text type the text you want at the prompt select and right click the text click font choose the desired font font size color etc from the font dialog box and then click ok
Select the text or picture that you want to display as the hyperlink. On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Hyperlink. You can also right-click the text or picture and then click Hyperlink on the shortcut menu. Under Link to, click E-mail Address. Either type the e-mail address that you want in the E-mail address box, or select an e-mail address in the Recently used e-mail addresses list. You can also right-click the text or picture and then click Hyperlink on the shortcut menu. Do one of the following: To link to an existing file or Web page, click Existing File or Web Page under Link to, and then type the address that you want to link to in the Address box.
Click where you want to insert a picture in your document. Click Insert Pictures. In the Insert Picture box, browse to the location of the picture on your computer, select the picture, and then click Insert. Insert a picture from a scanner. You can scan images into OneNote and then paste them into your document. Here’s how: In OneNote, open or create the page where you want to insert the scan and click here you want the scan to appear. Click Insert Scanned Image.
Method 1 of 3: Using the Insert Feature. 1. Place your cursor where you want to insert the image. Click the Insert tab, or the Insert menu. In Word 2007 and later, click Picture to select a file on your computer to insert. In Word 2003 and earlier, select “From File…” in the Picture submenu. Copy the image that you want to insert. You can do this with images on your computer or images from websites. To copy an image from a website, right-click and select Copy Image. To copy an image on your computer, select it and select Copy from the Edit menu, right-click on it and select Copy, or press Ctrl + C.
Insert a picture from your computer. Click where you want to insert a picture in your document. Click Insert Pictures. In the Insert Picture box, browse to the location of the picture on your computer, select the picture, and then click Insert. The original picture is embedded in your document. Insert a picture from a scanner. You can scan images into OneNote and then paste them into your document. Here’s how: In OneNote, open or create the page where you want to insert the scan and click here you want the scan to appear. Click Insert Scanned Image.
Click inside the header section on the blank Word document. In Word 2007, go to the Insert tab and select Picture in the Illustrations group. In Word 2003, go to the Insert menu, point to Picture and click From File. Locate the scanned document on your computer and insert it as a picture into the header. In Word 2007, click on the scanned form to select it. Go to the Format tab and select Text Wrapping in the Arrange group under Picture Tools. Select Behind Text. In Word 2003, right-click the scanned document and go to Format Picture. Select the Layout tab, click Behind Text and click OK.