Radiation therapy (also called radiotherapy) uses high-energy rays to kill cancer cells. It affects cells only in the part of the body that is treated with the radiation. The radiation is used to destroy undetectable cancer cells and reduce the risk of cancer recurring in the affected breast. There are two main kinds of radiation therapy that may be considered, and some people have both.
Breast cancer radiation therapy may be used to destroy any remaining mutated cells that remain in the breast or armpit area after surgery. Note: There are special situations in which radiation is used for women with metastatic breast cancer experiencing painful bone metastasis. This section however focused on the use of radiation for adjuvant therapy (treatment given after the main treatment to lower the chance of breast cancer returning). The radiation is used to destroy undetectable cancer cells and reduce the risk of cancer recurring in the affected breast. There are two main kinds of radiation therapy that may be considered, and some people have both.
Most radiation therapy is administered by a radiation oncologist at a radiation center and usually begins three to four weeks after surgery. The radiation is used to destroy undetectable cancer cells and reduce the risk of cancer recurring in the affected breast. There are two main kinds of radiation therapy that may be considered, and some people have both.
No, radiation therapy can also damage normal cells, leading to side effects. Doctors take potential damage to normal cells into account when planning a course of radiation therapy. The amount of radiation that normal tissue can safely receive is known for all parts of the body. Doctors use this information to help them decide where to aim radiation during treatment. Palliative treatments are not intended to cure. Instead, they relieve symptoms and reduce the suffering caused by cancer. Some examples of palliative radiation therapy are: 1  Radiation given to the brain to shrink tumors formed from cancer cells that have spread to the brain from another part of the body (metastases). 2  Radiation given to shrink a tumor that is pressing on the spine or growing within a bone, which can cause pain
Sign in to receive recommendations (Learn more). Radiation therapy — also called radiotherapy — is a highly targeted and highly effective way to destroy cancer cells in the breast that may stick around after surgery. Radiation can reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence by about 70%. Despite what many people fear, radiation therapy is relatively easy to tolerate and its side effects are limited to the treated area.
You’ve been told you have cancer. You’ve looked at your treatment options, and you and your doctor have agreed that radiation therapy is your best choice – either alone or along with another treatment. Now you may have questions about radiation treatment. The American Cancer Society knows you may have concerns about radiation therapy, and we have answers to some of your questions. Remember that, along with reading about your treatment, you can also count on your doctor and nurse to answer your questions.
Radiation therapy uses high-energy radiation to shrink tumors and kill cancer cells (1). X-rays, gamma rays, and charged particles are types of radiation used for cancer treatment. Palliative treatments are not intended to cure. Instead, they relieve symptoms and reduce the suffering caused by cancer. Some examples of palliative radiation therapy are: 1  Radiation given to the brain to shrink tumors formed from cancer cells that have spread to the brain from another part of the body (metastases). 2  Radiation given to shrink a tumor that is pressing on the spine or growing within a bone, which can cause pain
Radiation therapy or radiotherapy, often abbreviated RT, RTx, or XRT, is therapy using ionizing radiation, generally as part of cancer treatment to control or kill malignant cells. Radiation therapy may be curative in a number of types of cancer if they are localized to one area of the body. It may also be used as part of adjuvant therapy, to prevent tumor recurrence after surgery to remove a primary malignant tumor (for example, early stages of breast cancer).