Making the world better, one answer at a time. Acetylcholine receptors are located on the motor end plate or postsynaptic sarcolemma. Otto Loewi was a German pharmacologist whose discovery of acetylcholine earned the 1936 Nobel prize in Physiology or Medicine which he shared with Sir Henry Dale. 
Acetylcholine receptors are located on the motor end plate or  postsynaptic sarcolemma. Otto Loewi was a German pharmacologist  whose discovery of acetylcholine earned the 1 … 936 Nobel prize in  Physiology or Medicine which he shared with Sir Henry Dale. Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter. Neurotransmitters are  chemicals that transmit signals from a neuron to a target cell  across the synapse and most are synthesized at the nerve terminals. 8 people found this useful.
In the muscle-type receptors, found at the neuromuscular junction, receptors are either the embryonic form, composed of α 1, β 1, γ, and δ subunits in a 2:1:1:1 ratio, or the adult form composed of α 1, β 1, δ, and ε subunits in a 2:1:1:1 ratio. Nicotinic receptors, with a molecular mass of 290 kDa, are made up of five subunits, arranged symmetrically around a central pore. Each subunit comprises four transmembrane domains with both the N-and C-terminus located extracellularly.
An acetylcholine receptor (abbreviated AChR) is an integral membrane protein that responds to the binding of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter. Nm is located in the neuromuscular junction which causes the contraction of skeletal muscles by way of end-plate potential (EPPs). Nn causes depolarization in autonomic ganglia resulting in post ganglionic impulse.
Acetylcholine is found at the synapses between neurons and muscle cells. It serves to activate the muscle to contract. If acetylcholine receptors sites on the muscle cell are blocked in someway, then the acetylcholine cannot get on the site and the muscles will be incapable of contracting-paralyzed that is. There are two main classes of acetylcholine receptors(acetylcholine receptor is an integral membrane protein that responds to the binding of acetylcholine neurotransmitter), nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.
Nicotinic receptors are of two types: Nm and Nn. Nm is located in the neuromuscular junction which causes the contraction of skeletal muscles by way of end-plate potential (EPPs). Nn causes depolarization in autonomic ganglia resulting in post ganglionic impulse.
Two Types of Receptors. There are two types of acetylcholine receptors (AChR) that bind acetylcholine and transmit its signal: muscarinic AChRs and nicotinic AChRs, which are named after the agonists muscarine and nicotine, respectively. Binding of acetylcholine to a muscarinic AChR causes a conformational change in the receptor that is responsible for its association with and activation of an intracellular G protein, the latter converting GTP to GDP in order to become activated and dissociate from the receptor.
N1 or NM receptors: these receptors are located at the neuromuscular junction, acetylcholine receptors of the N M subtype are the only acetylcholine receptors that can be found at the neuromuscular junction. Acetylcholine is released from a presynaptic neuron into the synaptic cleft. Once in the synaptic gap, acetylcholine can: - Bind to presynaptic receptors: presynaptic activation or inhibition leads to automodulation of the presynaptic cholinergic neuron.
A number of drugs target acetylcholine receptors, blockade of these receptors is associated with anticholinergic (parasympatholytic) effect, while stimulation causes activation of cholinergic (parasympathomimetic) effects. Acetylcholine is released from a presynaptic neuron into the synaptic cleft. Once in the synaptic gap, acetylcholine can: - Bind to presynaptic receptors: presynaptic activation or inhibition leads to automodulation of the presynaptic cholinergic neuron.