Function [edit]. The gracile fasciculus provides conscious proprioception of the lower limbs and trunk to the brainstem. Additional functions of the gracile fasciculus include carrying deep touch, vibrational, and visceral pain information to the brainstem. The gracile fasciculus and the cuneate fasciculus offer the same functions but can be differentiated by the vertebral level at which information is provided. The cuneate fasciculus carries information from vertebral level T6 and above, and the gracile fasciculus carries information from vertebral levels T7 and below.
cuneate fasciculus of medulla oblongata the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the cuneate fasciculus of spinal cord. cuneate fasciculus of spinal cord the lateral portion of the posterior funiculus of the spinal cord, composed of ascending fibers that end in the nucleus cuneatus. fasciculus gracilis of medulla oblongata. the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the fasciculus gracilis of the spinal cord. fasciculus gracili
The fasciculus cuneatus is triangular on transverse section, and lies between the fasciculus gracilis and the posterior column, its base corresponding with the surface of the medulla spinalis. The fasciculus cuneatus tract is composed of first-order neurons that synapse onto second-order neurons in the brain stem. The second-order neurons decussate in the brainstem and continue on to the thalamus where the second-order neurons synapse onto third-order neurons.
cuneate fasciculus of medulla oblongata the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the cuneate fasciculus of spinal cord. cuneate fasciculus of spinal cord the lateral portion of the dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord, composed of ascending fibers that end in the nucleus cuneatus. gracile fasciculus of medulla oblongata the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the gracile fasciculus of spinal cord. fasciculus gracilis of medulla oblongata. the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the fasciculus gracilis of the spinal cord. fasciculus gracili
: either of a pair of nerve tracts of the posterior funiculus of the spinal cord that are situated on opposite sides of the posterior median septum lateral to the fasciculus gracilis and that carry nerve fibers from the upper part of the body—called also column of Burdach, cuneate fasciculus. 
Medical Definition of FASCICULUS GRACILIS. : either of a pair of nerve tracts of the posterior funiculus of the spinal cord situated on opposite sides of and immediately adjacent to the posterior median septum and carrying nerve fibers from the lower part of the body—called also gracile fasciculus.
The fasciculus gracilis has first-order, second-order, and third-order nerve fibers described below: First-order fibers: found on the ipsilateral side of the spinal cord; ends at the gracile nucleus in medulla oblongata of the brainstem. The gracile fasciculus and the cuneate fasciculus offer the same functions but can be differentiated by the vertebral level at which information is provided. The cuneate fasciculus carries information from vertebral level T6 and above, and the gracile fasciculus carries information from vertebral levels T7 and below.
The cuneate fasciculus, fasciculus cuneatus (tract of Burdach, named for Karl Friedrich Burdach) is a tract of nerves in the spinal cord that primarily transmits information from the arms. It is part of the posterior column-medial lemniscus pathway. The fasciculus cuneatus tract is composed of first-order neurons that synapse onto second-order neurons in the brain stem. The second-order neurons decussate in the brainstem and continue on to the thalamus where the second-order neurons synapse onto third-order neurons.
fasciculus gracilis of medulla oblongata. the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the fasciculus gracilis of the spinal cord. fasciculus gracilis of spinal cord. the median portion of the dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord, composed of ascending fibers that end in the nucleus gracilis. Called also fascicle. cuneate fasciculus of medulla oblongata the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the cuneate fasciculus of spinal cord. cuneate fasciculus of spinal cord the lateral portion of the dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord, composed of ascending fibers that end in the nucleus cuneatus. gracile fasciculus of medulla oblongata the continuation into the medulla oblongata of the gracile fasciculus of spinal cord