SHARES. On the morning of June 12, 1994, O.J. Simpson was worth an estimated $11 million. Within hours, he would stop earning and start spending. Simpson was arrested in the killings of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and Ron Goldman, a waiter from the restaurant where she dined shortly before her death. He was ordered to pay a total of $33.5 million, made up of $8.5 million in compensatory damages to the Goldmans and $25 million in punitive damages to be split between the Goldmans and Nicole's children. The dollar amount meant nothing to us, Kim Goldman told CNBC.
A Miami attorney who represented O.J. Simpson in the Nevada trial that ended with Simpson's armed robbery and kidnapping conviction has accused three lawyers of slander for a lawsuit and comments alleging Simpson's attorney failed to pay promised fees to his co-counsel. O.J. Simpson trial lawyer alleges slander by Vegas attorneys in legal fee dispute. Steve Marcus. O.J. Simpson’s attorneys Gabriel Grasso and Yale Galanter hold a news conference outside the Clark County Regional Justice Center following Simpson’s conviction on all counts in Las Vegas on Friday, Oct. 3, 2008.
SANTA MONICA, Calif., Feb. 10— Writing one of the final chapters in O. J. Simpson's long legal case, a civil court jury here ordered him today to pay a financially debilitating $25 million in punitive damages to the families of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald L. Goldman. ''Finding O. J. Simpson liable of the murders and acting with oppression and malice was one of the easiest decisions I have ever had to make,'' said Juror No. 11, a woman in her 30's.
Top criminal defense lawyers command from $250 to $400 an hour, although most legal experts believe Simpson probably has signed a flat-fee agreement, with a lump sum to be paid for the preliminary hearing and another for the trial, which a judge ordered Friday. The final tab, experts said, is almost certain to run well into the millions and strain, if not drain, Simpson's considerable net worth, once estimated in court papers at more than $10 million--perhaps at the expense of his children's financial future.
The big question was: How much can Simpson afford to pay? Simpson's lawyers said the former Hertz Corp. car rental spokesman and football analyst for NBC and ABC, who has spent $3 million to $5 million on legal fees since the murders, is $9.3 million in the red. 
Simpson's attorneys argued during the damages phase of the civil trial that he was approximately $850,000 in debt. Attorneys for the victims' families argued the ex-athlete had already made about $2.8 million since his acquittal selling rights to a book, video, autographs and other memorabilia. He was ordered to pay a total of $33.5 million, made up of $8.5 million in compensatory damages to the Goldmans and $25 million in punitive damages to be split between the Goldmans and Nicole's children. The dollar amount meant nothing to us, Kim Goldman told CNBC.
With that kind of legal effort, one issue, experts said, is how much O.J. Simpson, who turns 47 in jail today, can afford. An accountant hired by Nicole Brown Simpson in connection with the couple's 1992 divorce fixed O.J. Simpson's net worth at $10.8 million. But most of that, according to court records, is in real estate, not cash--the home in Brentwood, valued at $5 million, a house in Laguna Beach and various condominiums. The final tab, experts said, is almost certain to run well into the millions and strain, if not drain, Simpson's considerable net worth, once estimated in court papers at more than $10 million--perhaps at the expense of his children's financial future.
In addition to attorney fees, the experts said, Mr. Simpson will probably spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on a parallel investigation his lawyers have started. Fees for a jury specialist are expected to reach $100,000 or more. The cost of expert witnesses could be several hundred thousand dollars. Daily court transcripts could cost tens or even hundreds of thousands of dollars, lawyers said. Fee Arrangements Possible. Top defense lawyers generally charge a flat fee, and the fee for a celebrity lawyer in a capital case can start at $500,000, said Charles L. Lindner, past president of the Los Angeles Criminal Bar Association.
According to court records, accountant Edward J. Lieberman said in 1992 that Simpson earned $1.5 million in 1991, much of it under contracts with NBC and Hertz Corp. In the prior five years, he earned an average of $1.2 million a year, Lieberman said. The final tab, experts said, is almost certain to run well into the millions and strain, if not drain, Simpson's considerable net worth, once estimated in court papers at more than $10 million--perhaps at the expense of his children's financial future.
As for O.J. Simpson's current net worth, his lawyer, Patricia Palm, told CNBC she did not know how much money he has. When asked if he is able to pay her, she would not comment, citing attorney-client privilege. Simpson's home in Florida went into foreclosure, though he is still presumably getting his NFL pension. He was ordered to pay a total of $33.5 million, made up of $8.5 million in compensatory damages to the Goldmans and $25 million in punitive damages to be split between the Goldmans and Nicole's children. The dollar amount meant nothing to us, Kim Goldman told CNBC.