LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of skeptical is someone who has doubts, questions or is not easily convinced of something. An example of skeptical is someone who doesn't believe in religion. also scep·ti·cal. adjective. 1  Marked by or given to doubt; questioning: skeptical of political promises. 2  Relating to or characteristic of skeptics or skepticism.
Skeptical means “having reservations”. Someone who is skeptical will not easily be convinced, will be hard to persuade. The main meaning of cynical is “believing the worst of people”, or as NOAD says, “distrustful of human sincerity or integrity”. By extension, it has come to mean “doubting something will happen”, which can be somewhat close in meaning to skeptical in some cases, but not generally. The meaning of skeptical is: 1  Having/showing doubt. 2  Denying or questioning the tenets of a religion. 3  regarding the doctrines or opinions of philosophical Skeptics.
But then there were some sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times, equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those traditions one whit the less facts, for all that. sceptical. adjective doubtful, cynical, dubious, questioning, doubting, hesitating, scoffing, hesitant, unconvinced, disbelieving, incredulous, quizzical, mistrustful, unbelieving scientists who are sceptical about global warming.
also scep·ti·cal (skĕp′tĭ-kəl). adj. 1. Marked by or given to doubt; questioning: skeptical of political promises. 2. Relating to or characteristic of skeptics or skepticism. skep′ti·cal·ly adv. (ˈskɛp tɪ kəl). adj. or scep•ti•cal. 1. inclined to skepticism; having doubt. 2. showing doubt: a skeptical smile. 3. denying or questioning religion or the tenets of a religion. 4. (cap.) of or pertaining to Skeptics or Skepticism.
: having or expressing doubt about something (such as a claim or statement). Learn More About SKEPTICAL. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for skeptical. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of skeptical. Nglish: Translation of skeptical for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of skeptical for Arabic speakers.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of sceptical from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
Examples of SKEPTICAL. 1  She's highly skeptical of the researchers' claims. 2  He says he can win, but I remain skeptical. 3  When I said I'd finished my homework early, Mom looked skeptical. Learn More About SKEPTICAL. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for skeptical. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of skeptical. Nglish: Translation of skeptical for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of skeptical for Arabic speakers.