Unlike some other metals, aluminum is often extruded during aluminum fabrication; this process involves drawing or pushing the aluminum blank through a die to create a shaped product. Performance automobile wheels can be made from aluminum, and while they may not be the most durable options, they can certainly save weight and add performance. Recycling is another important process in aluminum fabrication. This metal is 100% recyclable, so reclaimed aluminum can be melted down and reprocessed in the extrusion process or other machining processes
1 Fabrication shops and machine shops have overlapping capabilities, but fabrication shops generally concentrate on metal preparation and assembly as described above. 2  By comparison, machine shops also cut metal, but they are more concerned with the machining of parts on machine tools. 1 Bending is done by hammering (manual or powered) or via press brakes and similar tools. 2  Modern metal fabricators use press brakes to either coin or air-bend metal sheet into form.
Deep drawing is a common fabrication method for aluminium and is the process used to make one of the world’s most common aluminium products; aluminium cans. Deep drawing uses extremely high forces to push a sheet or blank of a relatively soft alloy into a female draw cavity. Fabrication of Aluminium. Aluminium alloys are normally supplied as semi-finished products such as sheet, plate, coil, extrusions, tube or wire. All forms can then be readily fabricated into finished products using a wide range of processes.
aluminium fabrication. Aluminium Fabrication is a non-ferrous metal as it didn't consist of iron and due to non-ferrous metal which is more difficult to do fabrication as well as TIG welding on it compare to ferrous metal. Aluminum needs three times more heating power than ferrous metal like stainless steel. 
We offer a number of sheet metal fabrication services here at Yorkshire Profiles. From bending, cutting and welding right through to countersinking, tapping and deburring, we can provide a comprehensive fabrication service for all your sheet metal needs. In this section, we’ll be looking at a summary of what fabrication is and how we provide these services. If you have your own 3D designs, you can send them to us and we will take it from there. Once we have established what you require for your metal fabrication needs, it then moves onto the cutting stage. Here, metal sheets are cut down to size in what is known as the material removal process.
C.S.A.L is China's leading integrated aluminium extrusions and aluminium fabrication specialist. By being the partner of our clients in the products development, we enable them to make their products as better as it would be. 
Once raw materials are made into useful parts, the aluminum fabrication can continue with cutting, grinding, drilling, or shaping to fit a specific need. Aluminum is often used for window frames, automobile components, bicycle components, building materials such as shuttering formwork, and much more. Performance automobile wheels can be made from aluminum, and while they may not be the most durable options, they can certainly save weight and add performance. Recycling is another important process in aluminum fabrication. This metal is 100% recyclable, so reclaimed aluminum can be melted down and reprocessed in the extrusion process or other machining processes
Aluminium not only offers many advantages due to it’s material properties. Aluminium is also extensively adaptable to fabrication and machining processes. Generally tooling costs are lower than with many other metals and the high speed at which certain processes can be completed, offer even greater labour cost savings. Many additional fabrication processes that would have to be carried out on other materials, can be designed in to the extrusion process of aluminium. You can read about these in the extrusion design guide section. For all other fabrication processes there are some guide lines below.
Metal fabrication is a value added process that involves the construction of machines and structures from various raw materials. 1 Bending is done by hammering (manual or powered) or via press brakes and similar tools. 2  Modern metal fabricators use press brakes to either coin or air-bend metal sheet into form.