Problems with periods are very common around the time of the menopause. Also known as the 'change of life', this is when the ovaries gradually slow down their function and your periods finally end permanently. The average age of menopause for women in the UK is 51, but it can happen as young as 40 and as old as 60. Problems like heavy or prolonged periods often start in the run up to menopause as your body transitions due to hormonal changes. This stage is known as perimenopause
In some cases, changes in the body that lead to the menopause can start as early as 10 years before a final period. On average, a menstrual cycle lasts about 28 days, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days may be considered normal. One of the first signs of changing hormone levels is a change in the pattern of your monthly period. As your body transitions to menopause you may experience a range of symptoms that include changes in: The average age of menopause for women in the UK is 51, but it can happen as young as 40 and as old as 60. Problems like heavy or prolonged periods often start in the run up to menopause as your body transitions due to hormonal changes.
Menopause is defined as the absence of menstrual periods for 1 year. The average age of menopause is 51 years, but the normal range is 45 years to 55 years. The years leading up to this point are called perimenopause. This term means around menopause.. This phase can last for up to 10 years. 
Amenorrhea. A long menstrual cycle could refer to an extended period of time between bouts of bleeding. Amenorrhea is the absence of periods for more than 60 days. It usually occurs during pregnancy and breastfeeding, but it can also occur at other times in a woman's life. Menorrhagia. This is the occurrence of an abnormally long or heavy period. The average menstrual cycle lasts between 21 and 35 days, with three to five days of bleeding. However, “regular” is a subjective term, and what is normal for one woman is often abnormal for another.
Perimenopause is the period of time before menopause when a woman s body changes. Perimenopause is a normal transition in a woman s life. Although each woman s experience can be different, most women experience a decreased ability to become pregnant, and irregular and sometimes heavy menstrual periods. 
Perimenopause or menopause transition.. Perimenopause can begin 8 to 10 years before menopause, when the ovaries gradually produce less estrogen. It usually starts in a woman's 40s, but can start in the 30s as well. Perimenopause lasts up until menopause, the point when the ovaries stop releasing eggs. In the last 1-2 years of perimenopause, the drop in estrogen accelerates. At this stage, many women can experience menopause symptoms. Women are still having menstrual cycles during this time, and can get pregnant
Menopause is the point in time when a woman's menstrual periods stop. Menopause happens because the ovaries stop producing the hormones estrogen and progesterone. Once you have gone through menopause, you can't get pregnant anymore. Some symptoms can last for months or years after a woman's period stops. There is no way to tell in advance how long it will take you to go through the menopausal transition. It could take between two and eight years. Sometimes it's hard to tell if you are in
A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.