Primary vaccination age* 3 months or older. Booster vaccination every 3 years. Route of administration intramuscularly or subcutaneously. * Primary vaccination may be administered at an earlier age (minimum in dogs and cats of 4 weeks of age), but then a repeat vaccination must be given at the age of 3 months. Can be used during pregnancy in dog
On the contrary, the rabies vaccine licensure states that puppies can be vaccinated at 12 weeks, but it does not recommend nor require it at 12 weeks. I mentioned to Dr. Dodds that when I read about the cases of bat rabies and related stats, the species to be concerned about would seem to be cats, not dogs. There are only 12 states that suggest rabies vaccination at 12 weeks, and they don’t mandate it – only suggest it. There are 14 states that mandate the vaccine at 16 weeks of age, one state at five months, and several at six months.
Vaccination of dogs, ferrets, and livestock can be started at no sooner than three months of age. Some cat vaccines can be given as early as two months of age. Regardless of the age of the animal at initial vaccination, a booster vaccination should be administered one year later. An animal can be considered immunized within 28 days after initial vaccination, when a peak rabies virus antibody titer is reached.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. The dog gets a series of 3 or 4 combination shots, starting at 8 weeks old, and then 4 weeks later, and 4 weeks later (and sometimes one more). The rabies shot timing will depend on your local laws, generally it's given at the time of the last shot (so about 4 months), or at about 6 months
1 Always keep your pet’s rabies vaccine up to date. 2  Puppies and kittens should receive their first rabies vaccination at 12 weeks of age. 3  Pets must be vaccinated again in one year, and then a three-year rabies vaccine is generally administered during the rest of your pet’s life. 1 Pets must be vaccinated again in one year, and then a three-year rabies vaccine is generally administered during the rest of your pet’s life. 2  Many animal control agencies and humane societies offer free or low-cost vaccinations. 3  To find low-cost options in your area, call your local animal shelter.
If your dog is due for a rabies shot, consult a vet trained in homeopathy if possible. Do not give a rabies shot within 2 weeks of other shots -- at least. Remain in the area for at least 30 minutes after your dog gets a rabies shot so that you can get medical help immediately in case of a reaction. Do not give heartworm or flea meds, and do not worm, without proof of need and never within two weeks of any vaccination.
Generally a lyme vaccine is repeated two weeks later, then once a year. 16 weeks of age: Adminster the last combination vaccine. 12 to 16 weeks of age: Adminster rabies vaccine. The timing of this vaccine may depend on the laws in your area (since this can be a human disease, too). Confirm with your veterinarian and check your local and state laws.
These are usually given as a combination vaccine (gives protection against several different diseases) and your pup should have three sets of this combination vaccination, given at 3 week intervals. The Rabies shot is usually give at around 14 - 16 weeks of age. Puppies are extremely susceptible to many serious, contagious dog illnesses while unvaccinated. Several of these can kill a pup very quickly. It is also illegal to have a dog who isn't vaccinated against Rabies. Report Abuse. The dog gets a series of 3 or 4 combination shots, starting at 8 weeks old, and then 4 weeks later, and 4 weeks later (and sometimes one more).
Rabies Vaccinations for Puppies. Vaccinations for puppies are especially important as puppies are vulnerable to a much wider range of diseases than are adult dogs. Puppy vaccination regimens usually begin at between six and four weeks of age. The first vaccinations your puppy receives will be against distemper, parvovirus, and canine hepatitis. Your puppy should receive its first rabies vaccination between 16 and 26 weeks of age. While rabies is a very dangerous disease for both dogs and humans, your puppy is unlikely to catch it from another dog, due to the fact that rabies vaccinations are required by law. He is also unlikely to be exposed to wild animals carrying the disease during these first few months of his life.
1 Puppies and kittens should receive their first rabies vaccination at 12 weeks of age. 2  Pets must be vaccinated again in one year, and then a three-year rabies vaccine is generally administered during the rest of your pet’s life. 3  Many animal control agencies and humane societies offer free or low-cost vaccinations. 1 Pets must be vaccinated again in one year, and then a three-year rabies vaccine is generally administered during the rest of your pet’s life. 2  Many animal control agencies and humane societies offer free or low-cost vaccinations. 3  To find low-cost options in your area, call your local animal shelter.