Service Charges. When you're booking with us, whether it's online or over the phone, we'll always be sure to give you a clear breakdown of exactly what charges are involved. The total you pay to receive your tickets is usually made up of: 1  The face value of each ticket. 2  The service charge for each ticket
The advertised Promo Code provides discounts against our service fees, and can be combined with Instant Savings offers up to the amount of our service fees. Excess savings will not be applied. Promo Code expires on date indicated and can be withdrawn at anytime without notice. Book by Dec 31st, 2015. Our standard service fees are $30 per person one-way/roundtrip for economy class tickets. For cheap flights to your destination, or cheap tickets anywhere in the world, make sure to book your flight at InsanelyCheapFlights.com, where youll find deals on plane tickets, international airfare, and last minute flights. 
Find a cheaper hotel or package (flight + hotel) online within 24 hours of booking and we’ll match the lower price by refunding you the difference and also give you a AU$50 voucher to use on your next Expedia.com.au booking. (Terms and Conditions apply) . 
1 Baggage fees apply each way for select flights and are subject to change by the airlines at any time. 2  Fees reflect non-rewards member travel in most cases. 3  If a flight is 'OPERATED BY' another carrier, or there is MORE THAN ONE CARRIER on your booking, the more restrictive baggage policy. 4  be in effect. 1 Baggage fees and policies displayed are for Economy travel ONLY. 2  For any classes of service, and OTHER destinations not listed, please view airline policy directly using the provided 'Additional Policy' link. 3 
0. Flights CheapTickets does not charge a booking fee on single-carrier, standalone flights that originate in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. Flight reservations that do not qualify for 'no booking fees' may include a fee of up to $11.99. Paper tickets will include any airline-imposed fees and delivery charges. For reservations made over phone, CheapTickets will add a non-refundable $25.00 to each air ticket.
Direct Ticketing Charges. The charge is an additional: 1  $25* per ticket for tickets purchased over the phone through Reservations Sales. 2  $35* per ticket for tickets purchased at one of our Ticket Office Locations. 
The face value of a ticket is set by the event organisers. Most don't pay us anything to sell their tickets, so in order to make money See has to charge a little bit on top. The ticket cost is the face value plus the booking fee. We have to do this on a per-ticket basis to cover the cost of providing a 7 days a week, 24 hours a day booking service, labour costs, credit card commissions and all the other costs associated with running our business. The actual amount we charge is negotiated with the venue or promoter for each event. 
For example, Travelocity, Orbitz and its sister site, CheapTickets, still charge a fee for tickets booked on two or more airlines. Such interline tickets account for more than 20% of airline ticket sales at Priceline, spokesman Brian Ek says. By Laura Bly, USA TODAY. Several major online travel agencies are permanently waiving the $7 to $12 fees they charge to book an airline ticket in an effort to lure travelers amid lackluster demand and increasing competition from the airlines themselves. (OWW) , and