A nurse anesthetist is a nurse who specializes in the administration of anesthesia. In the United States, a certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) is an advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) who has acquired graduate-level education and board certification in anesthesia. The American Association of Nurse Anesthetists' (AANA) is the national association that represents more than 90% of the 45,000 nurse anesthetists in the United States. Certification is governed by the National Boards of Certification and Recertification of Nurse Anesthetists (NBCRNA).
How to Become a Nurse Anesthetist. Learn how to become a nurse anesthetist with these 10 career tips. Nurse anesthetists administer anesthesia services in a wide range of health care facilities, from the hospital emergency room to the dentist's office. 
A nurse anesthetist, or certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA), is a licensed professional nurse who provides the same anesthesia services as an anesthesiologist (MD). Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA). Today CRNAs are the only anesthesia providers in more than two-thirds of all rural hospitals in the U.S. and they administer approximately 30 million anesthetics to patients nationwide each year.
A nurse anesthetist is a registered nurse who works closely with doctors to administer and monitor a patient's anesthesia for medical procedures. Once you complete your education, you must pass your state certification exam to become a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA).
Nurse anesthesia is one of those specialties. A certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) is responsible for the administration of a patient's anesthetics. In the United States, anesthesia services are administered mostly by two types of providers: anesthesiologists and certified registered nurse anesthetists. Certified registered nurse anesthetists (CRNA) are advanced practice nurses who have earned a baccalaureate degree, practiced more than one year as an acute care nurse, and have successfully completed a graduate-level nurse anesthetist program.
A nurse anesthetist is an advanced practice nurse who specializes in administering anesthetics to patients and coordinating their care with other medical professionals. Once you complete your education, you must pass your state certification exam to become a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA).
Career Overview. A nurse anesthetist, or certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA), is a licensed professional nurse who provides the same anesthesia services as an anesthesiologist (MD). After completing extensive education and training, CRNAs become nationally certified and may then practice in all 50 states. Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA). Today CRNAs are the only anesthesia providers in more than two-thirds of all rural hospitals in the U.S. and they administer approximately 30 million anesthetics to patients nationwide each year.
Training to Become a CRNA. Before becoming a certified registered nurse anesthetist, a nurse must have at least one year of experience in an acute care setting, such as an emergency room or critical care unit, and complete additional training in a large hospital setting. Learn what it takes to be a certified registered nurse anesthetist. Find a general job description and information on the education and training needed to b