About 3 days after egg is released and intercourse is conducted. U will know ur pregnant two weeks after that. Example, egg release on 1st of month, then have sex in next 12 hours, egg is fertilized by the 4th of the month. It takes 72 hours after egg is released to b fertilized. A hit or miss situation every month.
The egg is fertilized by the sperms within 24 hours. The fertilized egg travels down the tube, sits around in there for about 3 days then heads to the uterus floating around looking for a nice cushion, finds it, and implants about five days after it heads out of the tubes. Ovulation happens once a month most of the time. babydollies · 7 years ago.
If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle. The journey then begins all over again. 
Once the ovum is thus released, it is available to a mature sperm for fertilization for 12 to 48 hours before it begins to disintegrate. This is the most fertile period of your cycle and during ovulation your chances of conception are highest. Considering the fact that the ovum starts to disintegrate 12 to 48 hours, there is a possibility that your partner’s sperm can fertilize the egg up to two days after you ovulate.
With a maximum of 24 hours for fertilization once the egg is released from the ovary, it is best to have sexual intercourse in the days leading up to ovulation and the day of ovulation in order to meet this time frame. An egg can be fertilized for a maximum of 24 hours after it is released from the ovary, according to pregnancy and childbirth expert Sheila Kitzinger. Therefore, a woman needs to understand how her menstrual cycle works and make an educated guess about when she will release an egg, also known as ovulating.
Sperm can live up to 72 hours once ejaculated. Sometimes the egg is found within 45 minutes for fertilization, while sometimes it can take as long as 12 hours. If the egg isn't yet released from the ovary, it is thought that the sperm can go into a holding pattern for about 24-48 hours while awaiting release of the egg. 
During ovulation, an egg is released from your ovary and is ready to be fertilized. An egg is available for fertilization for only 12 to 24 hours. On the other hand, sperm can live in the body for 3 to 5 days, making most women fertile for around 5 to 7 days. This means you can get pregnant from intercourse that occurred either just before or just after ovulation. Your. luteinizing hormone is linked to your ovarian hormone production and egg maturation. Within 24 to 36 hours of your LH surge, your mature egg will be released for fertilization. Your egg will dissolve after around 24 hours if the egg is not
In fact her chances of getting pregnant only depend on when she ovulates and how that is timed with intercourse. Considering the fact that the ovum starts to disintegrate 12 to 48 hours, there is a possibility that your partner’s sperm can fertilize the egg up to two days after you ovulate.
After ovulation, the egg lives for 12-24 hours, so it must be fertilized by a sperm from the male during this time for a woman to become pregnant. If it is not fertilized, the egg dissolves away and is shed along with the uterine lining during menstruation. 