Each of the pictures in the show is an illustration of the smooth muscle found in those places of the body. In the trachea, the smooth muscle is found on the dorsal side of the trachea, in a band of muscle that interrupts the cartilaginous rings of the trachea. In the smaller airways, the smooth muscle is more uniformly distributed. Characteristics of Smooth Muscle. The normal characteristics of smooth muscle: Smooth muscle is found in many different places in the human body: Unlike skeletal muscle, smooth muscle is generally not identifiable from gross observation of the body. You have to know where to look where to find it
58. The axial portion of the body includes. the dorsal cavity. the ventral cavity. the dorsal cavity and the ventral cavity. neither the dorsal cavity nor the ventral cavity. 59. The upper midportion of the abdomen is called the ______ region.
Summary Information: Dorsal Cavity. Dorsal Cavity: The dorsal cavity is an enclosed chamber that contains a portion of the body's organs and structures. The dorsal cavity is located in the posterior area of the trunk, head and neck and includes the cranial cavity and the spinal cavity. Conditions that can afflict the dorsal cavity include infection, infarction, trauma, cancer, genetic disorders, birth defects, and syndromes
Human body cavities: Ventral body cavity is to the right. The ventral body cavity is a human body cavity that is in the anterior (front) aspect of the human body. It is made up of the thoracic cavity, and the abdominopelvic cavity. The abdominopelvic cavity is further divided into the abdominal cavity and pelvic cavity, but there is no physical barrier between the two. 
Definition. noun. The body cavity situated near the back of the human body, and includes the cranial cavity and vertebral cavity. Supplement. The dorsal body cavity consists of the cranial cavity that contains the brain, and the vertebral cavity (or canal) that contains the spinal cord. Compare: ventral body cavity. See also: body cavity. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Human body cavities: Dorsal body cavity is to the left. The dorsal body cavity is located along the dorsal (posterior) surface of the human body, where it is subdivided into the cranial cavity housing the brain and the spinal cavity housing the spinal cord. The two cavities are continuous with one another. 
Dorsal View (Top) Spider Pictures. The following are dorsal view (top) spider pictures found in our library. Amateur and professional photographers with high quality pictures of known species can contribute them to Spiders.us to help grow this library and promote the photographer's online presence. Enlarge Picture. 1  Pisaurina mira