Esther 1 King James Version (KJV). 1 Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasuerus, (this is Ahasuerus which reigned, from India even unto Ethiopia, over an hundred and seven and twenty provinces:). That in those days, when the king Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan the palace,
Esterification is the general name for a chemical reaction in which two reactants (typically an alcohol and an acid) form an ester as the reaction product. Esters are common in organic chemistry and biological materials, and often have a characteristic pleasant, fruity odor. As a class, esters serve as protecting groups for carboxylic acids. Protecting a carboxylic acid is useful in peptide synthesis, to prevent self-reactions of the bifunctional amino acids. Methyl and ethyl esters are commonly available for many amino acids; the t-butyl ester tends to be more expensive.
Esters are formed by the reaction of an alcohol and a carboxylic acid, usually in the presence of sulfuric acid to catalyse the process, or by the reaction of an acyl chloride … with a carboxylic acid (this requires no catalyst and is irreversible without additional reactants) are the most common ways used. No, esters are neutral and they are organic compounds that result from the interaction of acids and alcohol. The presence of esters can cause the fruity-ish flavors and arom … as, such as banana, blueberry, rasberry and pear, that intentionally or unintentionally occur in some beers.
Nehemiah 13 Esther 2. 1 Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasuerus, (this is Ahasuerus which reigned, from India even unto Ethiopia, over an hundred and seven and twenty provinces:). That in those days, when the king Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan the palace,
Esters can also be derived from an inorganic acid and an alcohol. Thus, the nomenclature extends to inorganic oxo acids, e.g. phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid and boric acid. For example, triphenyl phosphate is the ester derived from phosphoric acid and phenol. As a class, esters serve as protecting groups for carboxylic acids. Protecting a carboxylic acid is useful in peptide synthesis, to prevent self-reactions of the bifunctional amino acids. Methyl and ethyl esters are commonly available for many amino acids; the t-butyl ester tends to be more expensive.
In chemistry, esters are chemical compounds derived from an acid (organic or inorganic) in which at least one-OH (hydroxyl) group is replaced by an-O- alkyl (alkoxy) group. Usually, esters are derived from a carboxylic acid and an alcohol. Glycerides, which are fatty acid esters of glycerol, are important esters in biology, being one of the main classes of lipids, and making up the bulk of animal fats and vegetable oils. As a class, esters serve as protecting groups for carboxylic acids. Protecting a carboxylic acid is useful in peptide synthesis, to prevent self-reactions of the bifunctional amino acids. Methyl and ethyl esters are commonly available for many amino acids; the t-butyl ester tends to be more expensive.
Esters are derived from carboxylic acids. A carboxylic acid contains the-COOH group, and in an ester the hydrogen in this group is replaced by a hydrocarbon group of some kind. This could be an alkyl group like methyl or ethyl, or one containing a benzene ring like phenyl. A common ester-ethyl ethanoate. The most commonly discussed ester is ethyl ethanoate. The acid CH3(CH2)16COOH is called octadecanoic acid, but the old name is still commonly used. This is stearic acid. The full name for the ester of this with propane-1,2,3-triol is propane-1,2,3-triyl trioctadecanoate.
Esters are formed by the reaction of alcohol and carboxylic acid in  the presence of a sulphuric acid as a catalyst. The reaction is  known as esterification. No, esters are neutral and they are organic compounds that result from the interaction of acids and alcohol. The presence of esters can cause the fruity-ish flavors and arom … as, such as banana, blueberry, rasberry and pear, that intentionally or unintentionally occur in some beers.
PET is made by reacting ethylene glycol with either terephthalic acid or its methyl ester in the presence of an antimony catalyst. The reaction is carried out at high temperature and vacuum to achieve the high molecular weights need to form useful fibers. PET is melt spun. For a detailed production flowchart, go here. 