History of Transistor. Bipolar Junction transistor is a three terminal device commonly termed as BJT was invented in Bell laboratories in 1948 by William Shockley, Brattain, john Bardeen which revolutionized not only the world of electronics but also our day to day life. 
The other type of BJT is the PNP, consisting of a layer of N-doped semiconductor between two layers of P-doped material. A small current leaving the base is amplified in the collector output. That is, a PNP transistor is on when its base is pulled low relative to the emitter. Transistors can be thought of as two diodes (P–N junctions) sharing a common region that minority carriers can move through. A PNP BJT will function like two diodes that share an N-type cathode region, and the NPN like two diodes sharing a P-type anode region.
Therefore, it can be considered as a current driven device. BJT is mostly used in amplifier circuits. IGBT (Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor). IGBT is a semiconductor device with three terminals known as ‘Emitter’, ‘Collector’ and ‘Gate’. It is a type of transistor, which can handle a higher amount of power and has a higher switching speed making it high efficient. IGBT has been introduced to the market in 1980s. IGBT has the combined features of both MOSFET and bipolar junction transistor (BJT).
As the name implies, the npn BJT is simply an hunk of p-type Silicon sandwiched between two slices of n-type material: Each of the three Silicon regions has one terminal electrode connected to it, and thus the npn BJT is a three terminal device. 11/28/2004 section 5_1 BJT Device Structure and Physical Operation blank 1/2 Jim Stiles The Univ. of Kansas Dept. of EECS 5.1 BJT Device Structure and Physical Operation Reading Assignment: pp. 377-392 Another kind of transistor is the Bipolar Junction Transistor (BJT). BJTs are analogous to MOSFETs in many ways: 1. 2. 3. 4. The two types of BJTs are npn and pnp (analogous to NMOS and PMOS). A BJT is a “Silicon sandwich” –one type of Si sandwiched between two layers of the other
Transistors: Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJT) General configuration and definitions The transistor is the main building block “element” of electronics. It is a semiconductor device and it comes in two general types: the Bipolar Junction Transistor (BJT) and the Field Effect Transistor (FET). Here we will describe the system characteristics of the BJT configuration and explore its use in fundamental signal shaping and amplifier circuits. The BJT is a three terminal device and it comes in two different types. The npn BJT and the pnp BJT. The BJT symbols and their corresponding block diagrams are shown on Figure 1. The BJT is fabricated with three separately doped regions. 
A bipolar junction transistor (bipolar transistor or BJT) is a type of transistor that uses both electron and hole charge carriers. In contrast, unipolar transistors, such as field-effect transistors, only use one kind of charge carrier. Transistors can be thought of as two diodes (P–N junctions) sharing a common region that minority carriers can move through. A PNP BJT will function like two diodes that share an N-type cathode region, and the NPN like two diodes sharing a P-type anode region.
Although both are transistors, they have significant differences in characteristics. BJT (Bipolar Junction Transistor). BJT is a type of transistor that consists of two PN junctions (a junction made by connecting a p type semiconductor and n type semiconductor). These two junctions are formed using connecting three semiconductor pieces in the order of P-N-P or N-P-N. It is a type of transistor, which can handle a higher amount of power and has a higher switching speed making it high efficient. IGBT has been introduced to the market in 1980s. IGBT has the combined features of both MOSFET and bipolar junction transistor (BJT).
Types of Transistors: The photo above depicts an IGBT Transistor from Powerex. 1  Bipolar Transistor-A Bipolar Junction Transistor (BJT) is a three-terminal electronic device made of doped semiconductor material and may be used in amplifying or switching applications. Types of Transistors-Transistor Applications, Transistor Construction. Transistors are a three terminal semiconductor device used to regulate current, or to amplify an input signal into a greater output signal. Transistors are also used to switch electronic signals.
1 Bipolar Transistor-A Bipolar Junction Transistor (BJT) is a three-terminal electronic device made of doped semiconductor material and may be used in amplifying or switching applications. Types of Transistors-Transistor Applications, Transistor Construction. Transistors are a three terminal semiconductor device used to regulate current, or to amplify an input signal into a greater output signal. Transistors are also used to switch electronic signals.