Originally coined in the 1970s by Chester Pierce, an African-American psychiatrist at Harvard, the term “microaggression” has made a comeback in recent years. “It has become one of the most researched areas in the professional literature of psychology,” Sue says. In November at UCLA, a group of minority students claimed that their professor committed a microaggression when he corrected a student’s grammar in a research paper by repeatedly changing the word “indigenous” from upper-to lower-case.
The term racial microaggressions was first proposed by psychiatrist Chester M. Pierce, MD, in the 1970s, but psychologists have significantly amplified the concept in recent years. 2009, Vol 40, No. 2. Print version: page 42. Two colleagues—one Asian-American, the other African-American—board a small plane. A flight attendant tells them they can sit anywhere, so they choose seats near the front of the plane and across the aisle from each another so they can talk.
Microaggression was coined in 1970 by Harvard psychiatrist Chester Pierce to explain the indignities heaped on black people, sometimes unknowingly, by whites. It has since been broadened to include all minority groups and women. The sheer number of negative interactions has convinced him, and many others, that they are more than innocent oversights. Indeed, social scientists have coined a term for them: racial microaggression.
Now the term “microaggressions” is used as a more inclusive term to name those hostile behaviors and situations that not only people of color face, but that are often experienced by those with subordinate identities, i.e., women, gay people, disabled people, those who do not identify as Christian, elders, etc. Microaggressions. The term microaggresssion referes to the subtle comments and behaviors that invalidate a person’s identity, perpetuate dominate narratives, and are negative racial slights to people of color.
Microaggression is a term which some use to refer to unintended discrimination. Psychiatrist and Harvard University professor Chester M. Pierce coined the word microaggression in 1970 to describe insults and dismissals he said he had regularly witnessed non-black Americans inflict on African Americans. Christina Hoff Sommers, in a video for the American Enterprise Institute, has criticized microaggression theory as oversensitive and paranoid. Heather Mac Donald, writing for the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research's City Journal, has said that the theory is simply self-victimization.
Back in the 1970s, Harvard University professor Chester M. Pierce coined the term microaggression to describe the insults and slights he had witnessed against black people. He wrote : These [racial] assaults to black dignity and black hope are incessant and cumulative. Any single one may be gross. This is how psychologist Derald W. Sue, who's written two books on microaggressions, defines the term: The everyday slights, indignities, put downs and insults that people of color, women, LGBT populations or those who are marginalized experiences in their day-to-day interactions with people..
In his view, she was guilty of a racial microaggression—one of the everyday insults, indignities and demeaning messages sent to people of color by well-intentioned white people who are unaware of the hidden messages being sent to them, in Sue's definition. 2009, Vol 40, No. 2. Print version: page 42. Two colleagues—one Asian-American, the other African-American—board a small plane. A flight attendant tells them they can sit anywhere, so they choose seats near the front of the plane and across the aisle from each another so they can talk.
The term racial microaggressions, was first coined by psychiatrist Chester Pierce, MD, in the 1970s. But the concept is also rooted in the work of Jack Dovidio, Ph.D. (Yale University) and Samuel Gaertner, Ph.D. 
In 1973, MIT economist Mary Rowe extended the term to include similar aggressions directed at women; eventually, the term came to encompass the casual degradation of any socially marginalized group, such as poor people, disabled people and sexual minorities. Christina Hoff Sommers, in a video for the American Enterprise Institute, has criticized microaggression theory as oversensitive and paranoid. Heather Mac Donald, writing for the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research's City Journal, has said that the theory is simply self-victimization.