Hydrogen: isotope data. The Hydrogen isotope H-2, also known as deuterium, is used in a variety of applications. Deuterium is used extensively in organic chemistry in order to study chemical reactions. It is also used in vitamin research. Deuterium in the form of H 2 O, known as heavy water, is used as a moderator in CANDU nuclear reactors, in NMR studies and in studies into human metabolism.
Protium (hydrogen-1) has an atomic mass of 1.00782504, and is a stable isotope. It has one proton and no neutrons. Protium is also known as ordinary hydrogen. Looking at its natural abundance, it is the most common of all the hydrogen isotopes. Tritium (hydrogen-3), has an atomic mass of 3.0160492, and it consists of one proton and two neutrons. Its nucleus is triple the mass of protium. What distinguishes tritium from protium and deuterium is that it is radioactive, which means that its nucleus is unstable so its nucleus decays and emits radiation.
Therefore, hydrogen, the simplest nucleus, has been studied extensively. The isotopes of hydrogen show many of the effects found in more complicated nuclei. (The word isotope refers to a nucleus with the same Z but different A). There are three isotopes of the element hydrogen: hydrogen, deuterium, and tritium.
Hydrogen is a chemical element with chemical symbol H and atomic number 1. With an atomic weight of 7000100794000000000♠1.00794 u, hydrogen is the lightest element on the periodic table. Its monatomic form (H) is the most abundant chemical substance in the universe, constituting roughly 75% of all baryonic mass. Non-remnant stars are mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state.
One proton makes a hydrogen atom. The difference between isotopes is the number of neutrons bound to that proton. There are six known hydrogen isotopes, ranging from H-1 to H-6. The H-4 isotope has a range of half-life values, depending on the overall energy of the nucleus and its total angular momentum quantum number. 
Hydrogen, in particular, has three isotopes: protium or hydrogen-1, deuterium or hydrogen-2 and tritium or hydrogen-3. The most naturally abundant isotope of hydrogen on earth is protium, followed by deuterium, while tritium only has trace and amounts. Tritium (hydrogen-3), has an atomic mass of 3.0160492, and it consists of one proton and two neutrons. Its nucleus is triple the mass of protium. What distinguishes tritium from protium and deuterium is that it is radioactive, which means that its nucleus is unstable so its nucleus decays and emits radiation.
Hydrogen has three isotopes (triplets): hydrogen-1 (protium), hydrogen-2 (deuterium) and hydrogen-3 (tritium). In the illustration below, we can see subscripts and superscripts. The superscripts 1, 2 and 3 written before H are the atomic masses of the isotopes of hydrogen and the subscript 1 is the atomic number. Tritium (hydrogen-3), has an atomic mass of 3.0160492, and it consists of one proton and two neutrons. Its nucleus is triple the mass of protium. What distinguishes tritium from protium and deuterium is that it is radioactive, which means that its nucleus is unstable so its nucleus decays and emits radiation.
For more details on this topic, see deuterium. A deuterium atom contains one proton, one neutron, and one electron. 2H (atomic mass 2.013553212724(78) u), the other stable hydrogen isotope, is known as deuterium and contains one proton and one neutron in its nucleus. The nucleus of deuterium is called deuteron. Of these, 5 H is the most stable, and 7 H is the least. Hydrogen is the only element whose isotopes have different names that are in common use today. The 2 H (or hydrogen-2) isotope is usually called deuterium, while the 3 H (or hydrogen-3) isotope is usually called tritium. The symbols D and T (instead of 2 H and 3 H) are sometimes used for deuterium and tritium