To become a certified health education specialist, you must first receive a degree in health education, followed by certification through NCHEC. The degree must be in health education or a similarly related discipline that accurately and thoroughly covers the seven key areas of responsibility for health educators. In a career as a certified health education specialist, you help others achieve their maximum health and wellness through educational programs and guidance.
Role of the Specialist Teacher. The following is a list of roles likely to be carried out by a teacher holding a specialist qualification: 1  Carrying out the comprehensive assessment. 2  Devising an individualised programme of support/ intervention to meet needs of the pupil. 3  Identifying suitable resources and materials including ICT. 1 Carrying out the comprehensive assessment. 2  Devising an individualised programme of support/ intervention to meet needs of the pupil. 3  Identifying suitable resources and materials including ICT. 4  Supporting the whole school in meeting the
A reading specialist is an expert in teaching reading who can support and encourage stronger reading skills in the classroom and out. What a reading specialist does can change someone’s skill set and increase their chance of overall educational success. A reading specialist generally holds a master’s degree in reading, and he or she is certified K-12 in order to help students of all ages with their reading skills.
Though at times the specialist may be involved in direct teaching of the pupil, it is more likely that their specialist knowledge will be used to support the whole school in meeting the needs of pupils with literacy difficulties and dyslexia. 1 Carrying out the comprehensive assessment. 2  Devising an individualised programme of support/ intervention to meet needs of the pupil. 3  Identifying suitable resources and materials including ICT. 4  Supporting the whole school in meeting the
A Reading Specialist is a Creative Collaborator. Sometimes that might mean teaching the whole class, team teaching, teaching alongside the regular teacher or pulling students aside into small groups to work with them on reading skills. A reading specialist generally holds a master’s degree in reading, and he or she is certified K-12 in order to help students of all ages with their
All this suggests that not every school student has a specialist chemistry teacher teaching them chemistry. The definition of a subject specialist teacher is also debated (most recently by SCORE). This is by no means only an issue relevant to school teachers. For many people this is relatively simple, academic credentials and research interests provide the definition; degree subjects, final year project dissertations, higher degree and PhD topics all narrow the description from scientist, to chemist, to synthetic organic chemist in my case. How about as an educator?
Children as young as five will be taught by specialist subject teachers under a Government plan to give pupils the best start to their education. Michael Gove said more subject specialists would be recruited into primary schools under a reform of teacher training. A new wave of primary teachers will be trained to give dedicated lessons in disciplines such as mathematics, science and foreign languages, it was announced. It signals a dramatic shift in the primary school workforce which has traditionally favoured all-rounders who can teach any subject.
1 INSTRUCTIONAL SPECIALIST GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES Responsible for providing an instructional program designed to assist teachers with developing skills in the preparation of effective learning (lesson) plans, presentation of content, classroom management, and school and community communicati ons. 
A teacher-librarian (TL) , school librarian, or school library media specialist (SLMS) , is a certified teacher who also has training in librarianship. The roles of the school librarian [edit]. The school librarian performs four main leadership roles: teacher, instructional partner, information specialist, and program administrator.