Adaptation The Kyoto Protocol, like the Convention, is also designed to assist countries in adapting to the adverse effects of climate change. It facilitates the development and deployment of technologies that can help increase resilience to the impacts of climate change. The amendment includes: 1  New commitments for Annex I Parties to the Kyoto Protocol who agreed to take on commitments in a second commitment period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2020; 2  A revised list of greenhouse gases (GHG) to be reported on by Parties in the second commitment period; and.
The Kyoto Protocol implemented the objective of the UNFCCC to fight global warming by reducing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere to a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system (Art. 2). Collectively the group of industrialized countries committed to a Kyoto target, i.e., the Annex I countries excluding the USA, have a target of reducing their GHG emissions by 4.2% on average for the period 2008-2012 relative to the base year, which in most cases is 1990.
The Kyoto Protocol is a plan created by the United Nations for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change that tries to reduce the effects of climate change, such as global warming. The plan says that countries that adopt (follow) the Kyoto Protocol have to try to reduce how much carbon dioxide (and other  greenhouse gases  that pollute the atmosphere) they release into the air. The full name of the Kyoto Protocol is the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is called the Kyoto Protocol because it was made in Kyoto, Japan. The Kyoto Protocol was officially put into full force on February 16, 2005. On February 16, Russia began to follow (ratify) the Kyoto Protocol and it was decided to be put into full force
Delegates celebrate the adoption of the Protocol in 1997. The Kyoto Protocol was adopted in Kyoto, Japan, on 11 December 1997. Due to a complex ratification process, it entered into force on 16 February 2005. In short, the Kyoto Protocol is what “operationalizes” the Convention. It commits industrialized countries to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions based on the principles of the Convention. The Convention itself only encourages countries to do so.
The Kyoto Protocol is an international agreement linked to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which commits its Parties by setting internationally binding emission reduction targets. The Kyoto Protocol is an international treaty that aims for  developed nations to compromise to do efforts to reduce the  emission of atmosphere's harmful gases, to which is … known as 'The  greenhouse effect'.
According to the treaty, in 2012, Annex I Parties who have ratified the treaty must have fulfilled their obligations of greenhouse gas emissions limitations established for the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period (2008–2012). These emissions limitation commitments are listed in Annex B of the Protocol. Collectively the group of industrialized countries committed to a Kyoto target, i.e., the Annex I countries excluding the USA, have a target of reducing their GHG emissions by 4.2% on average for the period 2008-2012 relative to the base year, which in most cases is 1990.
OR. The Kyoto Protocol is a multi-national agreement for the reduction of the emission of greenhouse gasses. In 1997, the problem of the rising of earth's average temperature was a strong enough political topic that eighty world leaders met in Kyoto, Japan, to agree upon a means of controlling that increase. The Kyoto Protocol is an international treaty that aims for  developed nations to compromise to do efforts to reduce the  emission of atmosphere's harmful gases, to which is … known as 'The  greenhouse effect'.
Kyoto Protocol-is the only international agreement aimed at controlling the greenhouse emissions that are hurting our climate change.This claim is made by many groups although there is no reductions in greenhouse emissions even offered by this protocol. In fact, most countries get unlimited growth in CO2 production. The Kyoto Protocol is an international treaty that aims for  developed nations to compromise to do efforts to reduce the  emission of atmosphere's harmful gases, to which is … known as 'The  greenhouse effect'.
The agreement is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) adopted at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, which did not set any legally binding limitations on emissions or enforcement mechanisms. Only Parties to the UNFCCC can become Parties to the Kyoto Protocol. Collectively the group of industrialized countries committed to a Kyoto target, i.e., the Annex I countries excluding the USA, have a target of reducing their GHG emissions by 4.2% on average for the period 2008-2012 relative to the base year, which in most cases is 1990.