Lincoln Continental is a model name for a luxury car marketed by the Lincoln division of Ford Motor Company. Along with the Zephyr, the Continental is a Lincoln nameplate that has seen use in a sub-division, the short-lived Continental Division of 1956-1957. 
The Lincoln Continental was an automobile produced by the Lincoln division of Ford Motor Company from 1939 to 2002. Despite often sharing underpinnings with less-expensive Fords, the Continental was usually a distinctively styled, highly equipped luxury car. 
It is about what our vehicles do for our clients.” - Kumar Galhotra, Lincoln president. Considering the dramatic rebirth Ford has undergone in the last decade, Lincoln’s comparative lack of direction is pretty surprising. 
What was the last year the Prizm was made? I BELIEVE THAT 2001 IS THE LAST YEAR CHEVY MADE PRISM I BELIEVE THAT 2001 IS THE LAST YEAR CHEVY MADE PRISM I BELIEVE THAT 2001 IS THE LAST YEAR CHEVY MADE PRISM I BELIEVE THA … T 2001 IS THE LAST YEAR CHEVY MADE PRISM new answer 2002.
4309 CONNECT 141 TWEET 87 LINKEDIN 54 COMMENT EMAIL MORE. Lincoln is resurrecting the Continental name for its new flagship sedan, signaling Ford's deep commitment to returning the brand to its former glory as a top luxury choice. Designers were charged with creating a full-size car to replace the Lincoln MKS that rekindles the brand's timeless elegance. Bringing back the Continental name was not the original plan. Lincoln designers and engineers had been working on a much-needed new flagship to punctuate Lincoln's revival in the U.S. and herald its entry into the critical China luxury market.
The Lincoln Motor Company, Ford's luxury division, unveiled a big, richly-appointed, luxury car called the Continental in New York City Monday. This car has a big job: To regain for Lincoln the respect it once had, decades ago, as a luxury car brand. 
From Ford Wiki. The Lincoln Continental, an automobile produced by the Lincoln division of Ford Motor Company, began for the 1939 Model year. Over the next 63 years, despite these cars sharing underpinnings with less-expensive Ford automobiles, Continental was usually a distinctively styled, highly equipped Luxury car. The first Lincoln Continental was developed as Edsel Ford 's one-off personal vehicle, though it is believed he planned all along to put the model into production if successful. In 1938, he commissioned a custom design from the chief stylist, Eugene T. Bob Gregorie, ready for Edsel's March 1939 vacation.
Lincoln revives Continental name in image overhaul. Lincoln is bringing back the Continental name for its new flagship sedan in a powerful and symbolic move that signals for the first time the true commitment Ford is making to its luxury brand.The new flagship. Post to Facebook. -----------------------------------------------------------. Highlights of Lincoln Continental concept. 1  New flagship drops MKS name for storied Continental name that dates back to Edsel Ford's one-off personal car in 1939. 2  New face of Lincoln includes a grille with the logo replicated in mesh. 3  Gone is the horizontal split grille
Zach Bowman. None of that changed how the car looked. I didn't realize it at the time, but my '71 Continental Mark III was one of the last truly beautiful Lincolns ever made. It was an outlier in the company's lineup even when it was new, and '72 brought us the gaudier, less powerful Mark IV. 