The plug on the left is the 2.5-mm stereo jack that is used for the LanC connection (LANC signal marked by L) on the camcorder, whereas the DB25M connector on the right is a male LPT 25-pin connector and connects to your PC. 
All-in-one LANC remote control makes one LANC remote control for all video cameras with a LANC connection and one button for all functions possible. It has three modes and works for all old models of Sony or Sony LANC compatible video camera, new DVD and Hard Disk video cameras with a 2.5mm LANC jack. You don’t need concern compatibility problems and complicated button combinations to control your video camera. Long LANC cable makes it easy to store you video camera in safe place while focusing on your sport activities. There is no need to access the DVR or video camera buttons directly for recording and standby or power on/off. It can extend the video camera battery life.
The wired remote lets you start and stop video, snap photos, zoom in and out, and turn your camcorder on and off. Two-Step Zoom. When used with camcorders that support the function, the VRS-LANC can control zoom at two speeds. Press the zoom button halfway to zoom slowly, and press it down all the way for fast zooms. LANC Connector. The VRS-LANC offers compatibility with most camcorders that have a LANC terminal
Hello Dave, Welcome to the Sony Community. LANC stands for Local Application Control Bus System. LANC control jacks are used for controlling the tape transport of video equipment and connected peripherals. This jack has the same function as a jack labeled CONTROL L or REMOTE. 
A wireless local area network (WLAN) is a wireless computer network that links two or more devices using a wireless distribution method (often spread-spectrum or OFDM radio) within a limited area such as a home, school, computer laboratory, or office building. 
LANC/Remote Compatible Camcorders (for Electronic AquaCam Housings). LANC is a wired remote communication interface developed by the Sony Corporation and is found primarily on Sony camcorders and some Canon camcorders. LANC (or Remote) compatible camcorders have one of the following interface connectors: 1 (L). An older, 2.5mm mini-plug jack generally marked as LANC, REMOTE, L, or Control-L. 2 (R). A multi-function 10-pin terminal marked as A/V Remote (A/V-R) or sometimes A/V or A/V Out. 3 (for 2013-2014 Sony camcorders Only). If you require compatibility with both types of connectors, there are LANC Adapter Cables available that will adapt a standard 2.5mm LANC mini-plug to the newer A/V-Remote 10-pin connector. They are available from studio1productions.com for about $29 USD (LANC Only) and $50 USD (LANC with AV output connectors).
A special designed Sony 10pin LANC Adapter is available if connect 2.5mm LANC to new video cameras is necessary. The LANC extension cable is also available if long range LANC remote control is required. The LANC Remote Control is an IP67 water/dust/mud proof design. Long LANC cable makes it easy to store you video camera in safe place while focusing on your sport activities. There is no need to access the DVR or video camera buttons directly for recording and standby or power on/off. It can extend the video camera battery life.
The LANC Shepherd has two cables, one for each camera, each with a 2.5mm three conductor plug, and simply plugs into the ACC port of each camera (LANC port on video cameras, or A/V-R port of video cameras when used with an adapter). For video cameras, the LANC Shepherd controls record, zoom, and still image capture, with adjustable zoom rate, and the LANC Shepherd can control play back and record in VCR mode. Offset powerup also is available for improved powerup synchronization with both digital still cameras and video cameras.
The LANC Shepherd also supports Sony and Canon video cameras with a LANC port (there are hundreds of models), although Canon video cameras do not support the still image capture function through the LANC port. The LANC port on some Sony consumer level camcorders is labeled Remote. For video cameras, the LANC Shepherd controls record, zoom, and still image capture, with adjustable zoom rate, and the LANC Shepherd can control play back and record in VCR mode. Offset powerup also is available for improved powerup synchronization with both digital still cameras and video cameras.