Rabbits are a serious mammalian pest and invasive species in Australia causing millions of dollars of damage to crops. Rabbits were introduced to Australia in the 18th century with the First Fleet and became widespread after an outbreak caused by an 1859 release. Although the rabbit is a notorious pest, it proved useful to many people during the depressions of the 1890s and 1930s and during wartime. Trapping rabbits helped farmers, stockmen, and stationhands by providing food and extra income, and in some cases helped pay off farming debts.
How the disease spread. The way which Myxomatosis spread is a amazing story. It was first discovered in 1896, in lab rabbits from Spain.Many believe the illness come from Brazil, but I can assure you that this is wrong. To prevent a rabbit from contracting Mixi is fairly simple. The most affective way is to have the rabbit vaccinated every 6 or 12 months, depending on the risk in the area. Vaccination is not a guarantee; the rabbit is still at risk but is far less likely to contract the illness and will be more likely to recover.
first published on Apr 22, 2010 by bunnyhugga. There are several different kinds of bedding you could use in your rabbit's hutch or cage. Softwood litters have been shown to cause liver disease in rabbits... There are several different kinds of bedding you could use in your rabbit's hutch or cage, as follows:-. This is a good base to line the floor of the hutch or cage with. However, many rabbits, especially if bored, will rip it up and the ink on newspaper can be harmful to rabbits if they ingest too much of it.
Myxomatosis (sometimes shortened to  myxo  or myxy) is a disease that affects rabbits and is caused by the myxoma virus. It was first observed in Uruguay in laboratory rabbits in the late 19th century. It was introduced into Australia in 1950 in an attempt to control the rabbit population (see Rabbits in Australia).
Tularemia or “rabbit fever” is the single most important and deadly disease affecting cottontails. The causal organism, a microscopic bacteria Pasteurella tularensis, is capable of infecting a number of wild birds and mammals (including man), but more commonly occurs in rodents and rabbits. 
History. Rabbits were introduced to Australia by the First Fleet and the first feral populations were established in Tasmania by 1827. The Victorian Acclimatisation Society released 24 rabbits on Christmas Day 1859 to hunt for sport and to help settlers feel more 'at home'. In the 60 years following 1886, rabbits invaded 4 million square kilometres of Australia, making it one of the fastest colonising mammals anywhere in the world. 'Competition and grazing by rabbits' was listed as a key threatening process by the NSW Scientific Committee in 2002.
Affected rabbits develop skin tumors, and in some cases blindness, followed by fatigue and fever; they usually die within 14 days of contracting the disease. The disease is spread by direct contact with an affected animal or by being bitten by fleas or mosquitoes that have fed on an infected rabbit. It was first observed in Uruguay in laboratory rabbits in the late 19th century. It was introduced into Australia in 1950 in an attempt to control the rabbit population (see Rabbits in Australia).
Internal Affairs. To begin with, it is important to understand the way a rabbit's gut works. Because a rabbit's digestive system is set up to ingest cellulose in the form of tough, woody stems and fibrous vegetation, it functions best when it has something to work with (Brown 1994). 
Studies have shown this to cause liver disease in rabbits and other small animals. The dust can also affect your rabbit's respiratory system. Unfortunately, this is the most commonly used and widely available type of litter. We recommend not using this type of litter but if you have to make sure the hutch or cage is well ventilated and cover it with a thick layer of hay or straw. This is a good base to line the floor of the hutch or cage with. However, many rabbits, especially if bored, will rip it up and the ink on newspaper can be harmful to rabbits if they ingest too much of it.
Myxomatosis is a deadly and painful disease. It has powerful affects that will normally kill an infected rabbit. The illness is spread by direct contact with a carrier or when insects (fleas, ticks etc) bite an infected and then pass the blood with a bite to the healthy. It can not be spread to other animals or humans. To prevent a rabbit from contracting Mixi is fairly simple. The most affective way is to have the rabbit vaccinated every 6 or 12 months, depending on the risk in the area. Vaccination is not a guarantee; the rabbit is still at risk but is far less likely to contract the illness and will be more likely to recover.