Teflon Chemical Found In Spring Water. Spring water graphic against map of Ohio and West Virginia, for story about DuPont providing bottled water to customers in one of the six districts in Ohio and West Virginia where the drinking water contains C8, a chemical used to make Teflon, a DuPont product. (CBS/AP). CBS/AP
Many drinking water contaminants are unregulated. Nearly two-thirds of the 315 chemicals found in the nation's drinking water over the last five years  a total of 201  are unregulated. Public health officials have not set safety standards for them, even though millions ingest them in their tap water every day. EWG's analysis of data from 1995 to 2008 found that the number of contaminants detected has been rising, but the percentage of tests producing detections has remained fairly stable at around 60 percent. These findings suggest that there are likely many more chemical contaminants in drinking water than we know.
Traces of 18 unregulated contaminants were found in the water from one-third of utilities in sampling across the U.S. by federal scientists. By Brian Bienkowski and Environmental Health News | December 5, 2013. tico_24/Flickr. Four of the chemicals found in the samples – the metal strontium, the herbicide metolachlor, PFOS and PFOA – are on the EPA’s list of chemicals under consideration for drinking water standards. The EPA plans to make decisions regarding at least five of the contaminants on its list next yea
The only healthy and safe way to drink ordinary tap water is to use a water purification. Chemical Sources. Chemicals will enter into tap water from many different types of sources. Pollution is one way that chemicals have gotten into the tap water supplies. Other ways are when chemicals are added to the water by the public water systems. The most common of these chemicals is chlorine. Chlorine is the most common of the types of chemicals currently being used to treat public water supplies. It is used to remove and to kill any bacteria which could be living in the water. Over time, chlorine taken in small doses will increase the risk of cancer, heart disease and other health conditions. Most all public drinking water systems use chlorine to purify water. Other chemicals which are found in drinking water are equally as deadly.
The chemicals found in ordinary tap water are known to be very common. Public drinking analysis done by experts have uncovered that tap water contains over 2000 different types of toxic chemicals. This makes owning a water purification very important. Over time, chlorine taken in small doses will increase the risk of cancer, heart disease and other health conditions. Most all public drinking water systems use chlorine to purify water. Other chemicals which are found in drinking water are equally as deadly.
Water (chemical formula: H2O) is a transparent fluid which forms the world's streams, lakes, oceans and rain, and is the major constituent of the fluids of organisms. Water is a liquid at standard ambient temperature and pressure, but it often co-exists on Earth with its solid state, ice; and gaseous state, steam (water vapor). It also exists as snow, fog, dew and cloud. Water covers 71% of the Earth's surface. It is vital for all known forms of life.
Of 251 chemicals, bacteria, viruses and microbes the scientists measured, 117 were not detected in any of the treated drinking water. Twenty-one were found in water from more than one-third of the 25 utilities (nine or more) and 113 were found in less than one-third (eight or fewer). Four of the chemicals found in the samples – the metal strontium, the herbicide metolachlor, PFOS and PFOA – are on the EPA’s list of chemicals under consideration for drinking water standards. The EPA plans to make decisions regarding at least five of the contaminants on its list next year.
Of 251 chemicals, bacteria, viruses and microbes the scientists measured, 117 were not detected in any of the treated drinking water. Twenty-one were found in water from more than one-third of the 25 utilities (nine or more) and 113 were found in less than one-third (eight or fewer). Four of the chemicals found in the samples – the metal strontium, the herbicide metolachlor, PFOS and PFOA – are on the EPA’s list of chemicals under consideration for drinking water standards. The EPA plans to make decisions regarding at least five of the contaminants on its list next year
As a chemical compound, a water molecule contains one oxygen and two hydrogen atoms that are connected by covalent bonds. Water is a liquid at standard ambient temperature and pressure, but it often co-exists on Earth with its solid state, ice; and gaseous state, steam (water vapor). It also exists as snow, fog, dew and cloud. Water covers 71% of the Earth's surface. It is vital for all known forms of life.