The occipital lobe allows humans the ability to differentiate between shapes. Damage to the occipital lobe can cause vision disturbances and even blindness. The occipital lobe is the part of the brain that helps turn what the eyes see into meaningful information. Individuals with occipital lobe damage may suffer from frequent visual hallucinations. The occipital lies at the back of the brain
The Peristriate region of the occipital lobe is involved in visuospatial processing, discrimination of movement and color discrimination (Westmoreland et al., 1994). Damage to one side of the occipital lobe causes homonomous loss of vision with exactly the same field cut in both eyes. Disorders of the occipital lobe can cause visual hallucinations and illusions. The occipital lobes are the center of our visual perception system. They are not particularly vulnerable to injury because of their location at the back of the brain, although any significant trauma to the brain could produce subtle changes to our visual-perceptual system, such as visual field defects and scotomas.
occipital lobe. noun. : the posterior lobe of each cerebral hemisphere that is separated medially from the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital sulcus, is indistinctly separated more laterally from the temporal and parietal lobes, bears the visual areas, and has the form of a 3-sided pyramid. Definition of OCCIPITAL LOBE. : the posterior lobe of each cerebral hemisphere that bears the visual cortex and has the form of a 3-sided pyramid. ADVERTISEMENT. olfactory lobe, parietal lobe. noun.
That part of the cerebral cortex in either hemisphere of the brain lying in the back of the head. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (occipital lobe is a kind of...): lobe ((anatomy) a somewhat rounded subdivision of a bodily organ or part). Meronyms (parts of occipital lobe): occipital gyrus (any of the convolutions of the outer surface of the occipital lobe of the cerebrum). Holonyms (occipital lobe is a part of...): cerebral cortex; cerebral mantle; cortex; pallium (the layer of unmyelinated neurons (the grey matter) forming the cortex of the cerebrum).
The occipital lobe is one of the four major lobes of the cerebral cortex in the brain of mammals. The occipital lobe is the visual processing center of the mammalian brain containing most of the anatomical region of the visual cortex. The primary visual cortex is Brodmann area 17, commonly called V1 (visual one). Occipital lobe (red) of left cerebral hemisphere. The two occipital lobes are the smallest of four paired lobes in the human cerebral cortex. Located in the rearmost portion of the skull, the occipital lobes are part of the forebrain.
Medical Definition of OCCIPITAL LOBE. : the posterior lobe of each cerebral hemisphere that is separated medially from the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital sulcus, is indistinctly separated more laterally from the temporal and parietal lobes, bears the visual areas, and has the form of a 3-sided pyramid. Definition of OCCIPITAL LOBE. : the posterior lobe of each cerebral hemisphere that bears the visual cortex and has the form of a 3-sided pyramid. ADVERTISEMENT. olfactory lobe, parietal lobe. noun.
Occipital Lobes: The occipital lobes are one of the four main lobes or regions of the cerebral cortex. They are positioned at the back region of the cerebral cortex and are the main centers for visual processing. Located within the occipital lobes is the primary visual cortex. This region of the brain receives visual input from the retina. These visual signals are interpreted in the occipital lobes.
Location and Function of the Occipital Lobe. The occipital lobe is located in the posterior, or back, region of the cerebrum, superior to, or above, the cerebellum. It's protected by cranial bones, with the primary protective bone being the occipital bone. The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain and is responsible for multiple bodily functions. The occipital lobe of the cerebrum is a major structural region. This article discusses the location and function of this key region of the cerebrum.