WC2B 4LD. Originally named ‘Waldorf Theatre’ and built as part of a pair with the Aldwych Theatre surrounding the Waldorf hotel, the Novello Theatre is easy to find and very central to London. The Novello Theatre is a participant of the Q-Park Scheme. The nearest participating car park is the 24hr Q Park Chinatown Car Park (20 Newport Place, WC2H 7PR).
5 Star, Prices from £270. More hotels near Novello Theatre. Please note: The term Novello Theatre as well as all associated graphics, logos, and/or other tradermarks, tradenames or copyrights are the property of the Novello Theatre and are used herein for factual descriptive purposes only. We are in no way associated with or authorized by the Novello Theatre and neither that entity nor any of its affiliates have licensed or endorsed us to sell tickets, goods and or services in conjunction with their events.
WC2B 4LD. The Novello Theatre opened as the Waldorf Theatre in 1905 to the designs of W G R Sprague and went through many name changes such as the Strand Theatre and the Whitney Theatre before being renamed as the Novello in 2005. Hotels near Novello Theatre include the One Aldwych, just seconds away from the theatre. This 5-star boutique hotel is modern and sophisticated with cutting-edge technology, friendly staff and two great restaurants.
The Novello Theatre, London. The Novello Theatre is a London West End theatre on Aldwych. The Novello was built as one of a pair with the Aldwych Theatre on either side of the Waldorf Hotel, both being designed by W.G.R. Sprague. The theatre opened as the Waldorf Theatre on May 22, 1905, and was renamed the Strand Theatre in 1909. Currently at the Novello Theatre London is the West End production of Mamma Mia!, which has had over 40 million people dancing in the aisles around the world and continues to sell out Novello Theatre tickets as one of the most loved shows around.
The Novello Theatre is situated on Aldwych, off The Strand. The nearest London Underground Stations are: Covent Garden, Charing Cross, Holborn. Take advantage of the Q-Park Theatreland Parking Scheme saving you 50% on parking in theatreland. For terms and conditions and locations visit www.q-park.co.uk/theatreland. 
Continue walking over Bow Street and then take the next right into Catherine Street walking past the Drury Lane Theatre Royal on your left and over Tavistock Street. The Novello Theatre is on your left and the main entrance is a few metres further on in the Aldwych. In total a distance of around 700 metres, approximately a 11 minute walk. On exiting the station turn right down the semi-pedestrianised James Street (towards 'The Market'), cross over Floral Street and take the next left into a 50 metre covered colonnade with shops on the left and the Covent Garden market building on the right.
If you are driving to the theatre after 6pm then you will not be charged. The Novello Theatre is a participant of the Q-Park Scheme. The nearest participating car park is the 24hr Q Park Chinatown Car Park (20 Newport Place, WC2H 7PR). Parking costs £18 for up to 3hrs, and £24 for 4hrs but theatregoers can save 50% if they have their ticket validated at the theatre
Novello Theatre Location Map. The Novello Theatre is located on the northern side of the Aldwych, at the junction of Catherine Street. The nearest tube stations are Covent Garden and Charing Cross. Directions to the Novello Theatre from Covent Garden Tube Station: Take the Piccadilly line to Covent Garden Tube Station and take the lift to street level. On exiting the station turn right down the semi-pedestrianised James Street (towards 'The Market'), cross over Floral Street and take the next left into a 50 metre covered colonnade with shops on the left and the Covent Garden market building on the right.
Built as one of a pair with the adjacent Aldwych Theatre and connected to the Waldorf Theatre, the Novello was built in 1905. For almost 100 years the theatre was known as the Strand Theatre, however it was renamed in 2005 to honour the deceased British actor Ivor Novello who lived above the theatre for almost 40 years. The beginning of this decade saw productions of Betty Blue Eyes, Crazy for You and Noises Off. In September 2012 Mamma Mia! transferred to the Novello, following five years at the Prince Edward Theatre and eight years at the Prince of Wales Theatre.