The structural properties of isolated tendons, ligaments, and bone-ligament-bone preparations are normally determined via tensile tests. In such a test, a ligament, tendon, or bone-ligament-bone complex is subjected to a tensile load applied at constant rate. Ligaments have characteristics of strain rate sensitivity, stress relaxation, creep, and hysteresis as described in Chapter 1. One important aspect to consider is the relationship between the viscoelastic property of strain-rate sensitivity between ligament and bone.
In anatomy, a ligament is the fibrous connective tissue that connects bones to other bones and is also known as articular ligament, articular larua, fibrous ligament, or true ligament. Ligament can also refer to: 1  Peritoneal ligament: a fold of peritoneum or other membranes. One of the most often torn ligaments in the body is the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). The ACL is one of the ligaments crucial to knee stability and is therefore necessary for human mobility. Because of its importance in mobility, it is necessary for the ACL to be repaired promptly with good quality substitutes.
Ligaments connect bones to other bones to form joints, while tendons connect bone to muscle. Some ligaments limit the mobility of articulations, or prevent certain movements altogether. Capsular ligaments are part of the articular capsule that surrounds synovial joints. One of the most often torn ligaments in the body is the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). The ACL is one of the ligaments crucial to knee stability and is therefore necessary for human mobility. Because of its importance in mobility, it is necessary for the ACL to be repaired promptly with good quality substitutes.
Knowledge of the mechanical characteristics of the ligaments of the ankle joint contributes to an understanding of their normal function, pathomechanics of injury, and their optimal surgical reparative procedure and reconstructive material. 
Tendons are a type of soft tissue connecting muscle tissue to bone, similar to the ligaments that connect bone to bone. The function of tendons is to transfer force between mu … scle and bone. This facilitates the joint movement for everyday movements. 2 people found this useful. 
The fascicle contains the basic fibril of the ligament or tendon, and the fibroblasts, which are the biological cells that produce the ligament or tendon. There is a structural characteristic at this level that plays a significant role in the mechanics of ligaments and tendons: the crimp of the fibril. In addition, ligaments and tendons can adapt to changes in their mechanical environment due to injury, disease or excerise. Thus, ligaments and tendons are another example of the structure-function concept and the mechanically mediated adaptation concept that permeate this biomechanics course.
Ligaments. Ligaments are made of the same material as tendons. Ligaments connect the bones to each other, and are designed to help stabilize the joints and provide a structure for the bones. Since they have limited stretching ability, they limit how far a joint moves to help protect against injury. Tendons are tough bands of connective tissue found in the joints. They connect muscles to bones. Each muscle has tendons attached at each end. Tendons are designed to only stretch a small amount.
Medical Definition of LIGAMENT. 1. : a tough band of tissue that serves to connect the articular extremities of bones or to support or retain an organ in place and is usually composed of coarse bundles of dense white fibrous tissue parallel or closely interlaced, pliant, and flexible, but not extensible. 2. 
Answers. Best Answer: Well the specific type of connective tissue is dense collagenous connective tissue. It is sometimes regular (the collagen fibers run parallel) or irregular (the fibers run in all directions). Collagen fibers are very thick and tough, similar to rope. So the ligament or tendon is not stretchy. They are thick and strong. You have Fibrocytes inside the ligaments which are cells responsible for maintaining the matrix around it. The matrix would be the abundant amount of collagen fibers etc. 
Ligaments and tendons are soft collagenous tissues. Ligaments connect bone to bone and tendons connect muscles to bone. Ligaments and tendons play a significant role in musculoskeletal biomechanics. They represent an important area of orthopaedic treatment for which many challenges for repair remain. In addition, ligaments and tendons can adapt to changes in their mechanical environment due to injury, disease or excerise. Thus, ligaments and tendons are another example of the structure-function concept and the mechanically mediated adaptation concept that permeate this biomechanics course.