History [edit]. The cravat originated in the 1630s; like most men's fashions between the 17th century and World War I, it was of military origin. A Steinkirk was a type of cravat designed to be worn in deliberate disarray. The fashion apparently began after troops at the Battle of Steenkerque in 1692 had no time to tie their cravats properly before going into action.
The cravat (/krəˈvaet/ , krəˈvæt-KRə) vat is a, neckband the forerunner of the modern tailored necktie and bow, tie originating from-17th century military unit known as The. croats A Steinkirk was a type of cravat designed to be worn in deliberate disarray. The fashion apparently began after troops at the Battle of Steenkerque in 1692 had no time to tie their cravats properly before going into action.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. The cravat is the forerunner to the modern tie, and in modern usage one can refer to a necktie as a cravat. We owe it to Croatians, who in the 17th century commonly wore either silk or cotton scarves tied under the collar. The name is actually a corruption of Croat, the French term for Croatians. Since the advent of the colored cravat, certain colors have special meanings. For example a blue one is associated with wholeness, calm and eternity. Red is associated with both love and rage, though in recent years, red ties were associated with the power suit and power colors.
For the Dress Cravat: 1  The Ascot knot is used for the dress cravat and finishes with the ends under and over then in front of the chest held by a tie pin. 2  The Cocolupa (Ruche) knot (formal type of cravat worn outside the shirt) like a four-in-hand knot for a modern tie. The ascot is descended from the earlier type of cravat widespread in the early 19th century, most notably during the age of Beau Brummell, made of heavily starched linen and elaborately tied around the neck.
A cravat worn for everyday wear is a form of neckwear that is worn with an open collar shirt, with the fabric tucked in behind the shirt to cover the lower neck and chest area. It is largely a men's accessory, although it is becoming increasingly common in womenswear too. The ultimate guide to the cravat, introducing them to beginners and delving into the mysteries of the strange names, fabric choices and even what shirt to wear. This is a genuine read-before-you-buy guide to all things cravat-like, so you can make an informed choice as to your preferred cravat style.
1 A cravat is the predecessor to the modern tie, but tends to be wider, more flamboyant (stylish!) and doesn't usually clip-on. 2  My ascot cravats are usually about 52 long, with tapered collar and tips (to a centered point). 3  They have a pleated collar, just like TOOTAL cravats, which add style, dimple and body. 
cravat. noun cra·vat \krə-ˈvat\. Tweet. : a short, wide piece of cloth that is worn around the neck by men with its ends tucked inside the collar of a shirt or sweater. 
A cravat is a form of neck cloth often worn by men. It was very fashionable in 1800s England and France and could be tied in different ways. Men's cravats can still be worn today to add formality to a wedding or other occasion. Here are the steps to make a cravat. 1 Fasten a cravat pin to hold the longer top side of the cravat in place. 2  For a scrunch or ruche tie, pull the long end of the cravat down through the loop in the cravat's knot. 3  Make sure the knot remains somewhat loose to give it a scrunched look.