He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and will gently lead those that have their young (Isaiah 40:11) is a picture drawn from pastoral life of Yahweh's care over His children. The frequent use of the word shepherd to indicate a spiritual overseer is familiar to Bible readers (Psalms 23:1; 80:1; Ecclesiastes 12:11; Isaiah 40:4; 63:14; Jeremiah 31:10; Ezekiel 34:23; 37:24; John 21:15-17; Ephesians 4:11; 1 Peter 5:1-4).
Australian Shepherd. The Australian Shepherd, is a medium size breed of dog that was developed on ranches in the western United States. Despite its name, the breed was not developed in Australia, but rather in the United States where they were seen in the West as early as the 1800s. 
A shepherd /ˈʃɛpərd/ or sheepherder is a person who tends, herds, feeds, or guards herds of sheep. The word stems from an amalgam of sheep herder. The Shepherd by Frederick Forsyth is the story of a flight from Germany to England undertaken by a young Vampire pilot one Christmas Eve. Biographies of David Ben-Gurion published in the early years of Israel emphasized his having been a shepherd immediately after his arrival in the country in the 1900s.
Answer: I am the good shepherd (John 10:11) is the fourth of seven I am declarations of Jesus recorded only in John s Gospel. These I am proclamations point to His unique, divine identity and purpose. Immediately after declaring that He is the door in John 10:7, Jesus declares I am the good shepherd. 
[ˈʃɛːfɐˌhʊnt]) is a breed of large-sized working dog that originated in Germany. The breed's officially recognized name is German Shepherd Dog in the English language, sometimes abbreviated as  GSD , and was also formerly known as the Alsatian and Alsatian Wolf Dog in Britain. The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed of dog, with their origin dating to 1899. As part of the Herding Group, German Shepherds are working dogs developed originally for herding sheep.
Metaphorically, the term shepherd is used for God, especially in the Judeo-Christian tradition (e.g. Psalm 23, Ezekiel 34), and in Christianity especially for Jesus, who called himself the Good Shepherd. The Ancient Israelites were a pastoral people and there were many shepherds among them. The Shepherd by Frederick Forsyth is the story of a flight from Germany to England undertaken by a young Vampire pilot one Christmas Eve. Biographies of David Ben-Gurion published in the early years of Israel emphasized his having been a shepherd immediately after his arrival in the country in the 1900s.
General Appearance. The first impression of a good German Shepherd Dog is that of a strong, agile, well muscled animal, alert and full of life. It is well balanced, with harmonious development of the forequarter and hindquarter. The dog is longer than tall, deep-bodied, and presents an outline of smooth curves rather than angles. 
Full Definition of SHEPHERD. 1. : a person who tends sheep. 2. : pastor. 3. : german shepherd. See shepherd defined for English-language learners. See shepherd defined for kids. 
2. He should know his sheep.  I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine  (John 10:14). Note the word know is the same word used of the intimate knowing of a man and wife. . To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out  (John 10:3). I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep  (John 10:11).  But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep.
Answer: The clause the Lord is my shepherd comes from one of the most beloved of all passages of Scripture, the 23rd Psalm. In this passage and throughout the New Testament we learn that the Lord is our Shepherd in two ways. First, as the Good Shepherd, He laid down His life for His sheep and, second, His sheep know His voice and follow Him (John 10:11, 14). In Psalm 23, God is using the analogy of sheep and their nature to describe us. 