Seismicity [edit]. Earthquakes that affect Ecuador can be divided into those that result from movement on the subduction interface along the plate boundary, those that result from deformation within the South American and Nazca Plates and those that are associated with active volcanoes. 
San Francisco de Quito, most often called Quito, is the capital city of Ecuador in northwestern South America. It is located in north-central Ecuador in the Guayllabamba river basin, on the eastern slopes of Pichincha,[1] an active stratovolcano in the Andes mountains. An article at History.com entitled “ Earthquake destroys landmarks in Quito ” provides more details: Quito, Ecuador, the site of many powerful earthquakes through the years, suffers one of its worst when a tremor kills 5,000 people and destroys some of the most famous buildings in South America, on this day in 1859.
8.8M. N.B: The magnitude for this earthquake has been recalculated since the following articles were written. Magnitude 8.8 is a better determination of the size of this earthquake. A catastrophic magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador and Colombia generated a strong tsunami that killed 500 to 1500 there. It was observed all along the coast of Central America and as far north as San Francisco and west to Japan.....The wave arrived in Hilo at about 12.5 hours after the earthquake. From Lander and Lockridge, 1989, Tsunami in Hawaii A magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador produced a 5-m local tsunami that destroyed 49 houses and killed 500 people in Colombia. It was recorded at San Diego and San Francisco.. Share this page: 1  Facebook
The 1906 Ecuador–Colombia earthquake occurred at 15:36 UTC on January 31, off the coast of Ecuador, near Esmeraldas. The earthquake had a moment magnitude of 8.8 and triggered a destructive tsunami that caused at least 500 casualties on the coast of Colombia. The earthquake occurred along the boundary between the Nazca Plate and the South American Plate. The earthquake is likely to be a result of thrust-faulting, caused by the subduction of the Nazca plate beneath the South American plate. The coastal parts of Ecuador and Colombia have a history of great megathrust earthquakes originating from this plate boundary
Itdestroyed San Francisco and it was so strong that they felt it in Southern Oregon and South Los Angelos. The tectonic plates also moved and that caused the earthquake. When the tectonic plates move the move apart or move together and that's what causes it. That is what caused the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.
Ecuador is a land of volcanoes and geological faults so Ecuador does have earthquakes. Here is an excerpt from a full report just emailed to our Ecuador Living subscribers. The recent earthquake in Haiti sent many readers scuttling to their keyboards so they could ask about earthquakes in Ecuador. An article at History.com entitled “ Earthquake destroys landmarks in Quito ” provides more details: Quito, Ecuador, the site of many powerful earthquakes through the years, suffers one of its worst when a tremor kills 5,000 people and destroys some of the most famous buildings in South America, on this day in 1859.
Earthquakes. Earthquakes are the result of plate tectonics, or shifting plates in the crust of Earth, and quakes occur when the frictional stress of gliding plate boundaries builds and causes failure at a fault line. In an earthquake, elastic strain energy is released and waves radiate, shaking the ground. 
How did this massive earthquake really happen. This earthquake happened because of the faults and plate tectonics. The San Andreas Faults caused the earthquake in San Francisco. It caused the earthquake in San Francisco because it started over there and came to San Francisco. On it's way it went through few other cities and places. The tectonic plates also moved and that caused the earthquake. When the tectonic plates move the move apart or move together and that's what causes it. That is what caused the 1906 San Francisco