Additional Ports. The easiest way to connect multiple computers to one monitor is to first check the back of your monitor to see how many inputs there are. On my monitor, I have an HDMI port, a DVI port and one VGA port. That means I can connect up to three different computers to my one monitor. Obviously, there are downsides to this approach because HDMI can carry the highest resolution with the most stability.
Then turn on your computer and and monitor and it should detect both monitors. Most computers have two ports though they may not look the same. One is the regular VGA port and the other is called a DVI port. You may need an adapter to use the DVI port for the second computer monitor. You can connect two computers to one monitor using a KVM swtichbox. Check this product out at Switch Box u can't connect one monitor in 2 computer.but u can use the monitor di … sply of other computer through one third party software like VNC     Yes we can connect two computer with one monitor.
Look at the back of your computer and locate an available VGA or DVI port. The VGA or DVI cord from the second monitor will fit the port. Tip. Purchase and install an AGP or PCI video card if your computer does not have an available port. Step 2: Attach second monitor. Plug in the second monitor and turn it on. Connect the best monitor to the DVI port to optimize your hardware. Restart your computer. Tip. If neither monitor comes with a DVI port, use a DVI-to-VGA adapter to connect the monitor. Step 3: Setup on Windows. Set up the second monitor on a PC by right-clicking the Desktop and then clicking Properties. On the Display Properties window, click the Settings tab
The VGA or DVI cord from the second monitor will fit the port. Quick Tip: Purchase and install an AGP or PCI video card if your computer does not have an available port. Step 2 Attach second monitor Plug in the second monitor and turn it on. Connect the best monitor to the DVI port to optimize your hardware. Restart your computer. Quick Tip: If neither monitor comes with a DVI port, use a DVI-to-VGA adapter to connect the monitor. Step 3 Setup on Windows Set up the second monitor on a PC by right-clicking the Desktop and then clicking Properties. On the Display Properties window, click the Settings tab
1 Get the right cable. 2  When you connect an external monitor to a laptop computer, you have to run a cable between the two devices. 3  Make sure that you get a monitor cable that matches the sockets on your laptop and monitor. 4  Tell your operating system you’re using a second screen. 1 When you connect an external monitor to a laptop computer, you have to run a cable between the two devices. 2
You can add one or more monitors to your laptop computer via the USB ports. Some monitors that are sold today can connect via USB instead of through a larger VGA port. However, in order to realize multi monitor images, your chipset or video card will need to have multi mode capability. In multi monitor mode, one or more monitors can be connected to the video card already installed in your laptop and form one single desktop. For instance, using multi mode with four monitors, you can create a huge desktop with each monitor representing only 1/4 of the screen.
For many professions nowadays, such as graphic designer, music producer or other creative jobs, there is a need for more than one monitor per computer. If you want to work with two monitors you can buy a monitor switch box or a second video card to connect two SVGA monitors to one computer. You'll need Windows XP or Mac OS X or newer for the instructions in this eHow. 
You will need two video out connections on the back of your computer, one for each monitor. There are 4 main types of connections, listed from oldest to newest: VGA, DVI, HDMI and Display Port. For best results, use two of the same connectors for your dual monitor setup. 1 If you have a monitor with a VGA cable, and your port is DVI, you can purchase an adapter that will attach to your VGA connecter and allow you to hook it up to a DVI port. 2  The ability to set up dual monitors depends on the power of your graphics card and CPU. 3  Running a second monitor puts more strain on your system
I believe that it is possible to connect to computers to one monitor. I have worked with brand new LCD monitors with two inputs-one DVI and one VGA. The monitor auto-s … enses which port is being used. So in theory, use the auto detect button on the front of the LCD panel to switch between computers. You can connect two computers to one monitor using a KVM swtichbox. Check this product out at Switch Box u can't connect one monitor in 2 computer.but u can use the monitor di … sply of other computer through one third party software like VNC     Yes we can connect two computer with