Infection vs Disease. Infection and Disease are two words that are often confused as one and the same. In fact these two medical terms are different in their meanings. Infection is understood in the sense of contamination. Contaminating air or water with harmful organisms is said to cause infection. Preventive measures alone are suggested to keep infections at bay. These are the differences between infection and disease. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Osteoarthritis and Rheumatiod Arthritis. 2  Difference Between Arthritis and Osteoarthritis.
Understanding infection vs. disease. There's a difference between infection and disease. Infection, often the first step, occurs when bacteria, viruses or other microbes that cause disease enter your body and begin to multiply.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a germ called Mycobacterium tuberculosis that is spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. Some people develop TB disease soon after infection, while others develop TB disease later when their immune system becomes weak. The general symptoms of TB disease include. 1  Unexplained weight loss. 2  Loss of appetite. 3  Night sweats. 4  Fever. 5  Fatigue. 6  Chills.
An infectious disease is a clinically evident disease resulting from the presence of pathogenic microbial agents, including pathogenic viruses, pathogenic bacteria, fungi, protozoa, multicellular parasites, and aberrant proteins known as prions. These pathogens are able to cause disease in animals and/or plants. Best Answer: infections are bacterial and a disease can be viral, neurological and physically disabling, while an infection can be cured with antibiotics with the exception or MRSA or the Super Bug. Source(s): tampico · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Bacterial and viral infections have many things in common. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex. 3  Contact with contaminated surfaces, food, and water
Alice! Dear Reader, The main difference between these two categories of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), now more commonly referred to as sexually transmitted infections, or STIs, is what causes them — bacterial STIs are caused by bacteria and viral STIs are caused by viruses. 
Infection affects a person with disease. On the other hand disease is the end result of an infection. This is the main difference between infection and disease. In short it can be said that infection leads to disease. A person gets a disease if he or she carries an infection. Preventive measures alone are suggested to keep infections at bay. These are the differences between infection and disease. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Osteoarthritis and Rheumatiod Arthritis. 2  Difference Between Arthritis and Osteoarthritis.
An infection is a disease caused by microorganisms like bacteria, viruses or fungi that has come inside you. Also diseases caused by greater parasites are sometimes called inf … ections. O … ther differences deal with symptoms. Yeast infection can cause itching while urinary tract infections cause burning sensation and frequency of urination. Both can be the result of bad hygiene and intercourse.   Actually, the difference between them is that one is caused by Candida which is a yeast that lives in the body, usually in the background and then overgrows to cause yeast infections such as thrush, whilst bladder infections are caused by bacteria
As you might think, bacterial infections are caused by bacteria, and viral infections are caused by viruses. Perhaps the most important distinction between bacteria and viruses is that antibiotic drugs usually kill bacteria, but they aren't effective against viruses. 