It is used to show how Limewater + Carbon Dioxide Chalk(/Limestone) + Water: Ca(OH)2(aq) + CO2(g) CaCO3(s) + H2O(l) NB: If too much carbon dioxide comes into contact with the cloudy limewater, it will cause the calcium carbonate precipitate to redissolve to form soluble calcium hydrogencarbonate. The fixation or reduction of carbon dioxide is a light-independent process in which carbon dioxide combines with a five-carbon sugar, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP), to yield two molecules of a three-carbon compound, glycerate 3-phosphate (GP), also known as 3-phosphoglycerate (PGA).
Garcia Oliver Plants absorb CO2, of course, but they take up a lot of room and are slow, inefficient CO2 absorbers. Most industrial CO2 scrubbers use chemicals that don't meet your criteria. Monoethanolamine (MEA) is used to scrub carbon dioxide from gas streams, but it's corrosive and toxic in very small amounts. Thanks. Garcia Oliver. Plants absorb CO 2, of course, but they take up a lot of room and are slow, inefficient CO 2 absorbers. 2 scrubbers use chemicals that don't meet your criteria. Monoethanolamine (MEA) is used to scrub carbon dioxide from gas streams, but it's corrosive and toxic in very small amounts.
The Chemistry. When carbon dioxide (CO 2) is absorbed by seawater, chemical reactions occur that reduce seawater pH, carbonate ion concentration, and saturation states of biologically important calcium carbonate minerals. These chemical reactions are termed ocean acidification or OA for short
A carbon dioxide scrubber is a device which absorbs carbon dioxide (CO 2). It is used to treat exhaust gases from industrial plants or from exhaled air in life support systems such as rebreathers or in spacecraft, submersible craft or airtight chambers. 
Carbon dioxide exists in the Earth's atmosphere as a trace gas at a concentration of about 0.04 percent (400 ppm) by volume. Natural sources include volcanoes, hot springs and geysers and it is freed from carbonate rocks by dissolution in water and acids. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is a product of respiration of all aerobic organisms. It is returned to water via the gills of fish and to the air via the lungs of air-breathing land animals, including humans.
Carbon dioxide (chemical formula CO2) is a colorless, odorless gas vital to life on Earth. This naturally occurring chemical compound is composed of a carbon atom covalently double bonded to two oxygen atoms. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is a product of respiration of all aerobic organisms. It is returned to water via the gills of fish and to the air via the lungs of air-breathing land animals, including humans.
Photosynthesis Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce glucose from carbon dioxide and water. This glucose can be converted into pyruvate which releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by cellular respiration. Oxygen is also formed. Photosynthesis may be summarised by the word equation: carbon dioxide + water glucose + oxygen The conversion of usable sunlight energy into chemical energy is associated with the action of the green pigment chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is a complex molecule. 