The decay of the muon (as well as of the neutron, the longest-lived unstable baryon), is mediated by the weak interaction exclusively. Muon decay always produces at least three particles, which must include an electron of the same charge as the muon and two neutrinos of different types. The muon orbits much closer to the nucleus, so muonic helium can therefore be regarded like an isotope of helium whose nucleus consists of two neutrons, two protons and a muon, with a single electron outside. Colloquially, it could be called helium 4.1, since the mass of the muon is roughly 0.1 amu.
Particle physics is the study of the fundamental particles of the universe, or, in other words, particle physics is the study of really, really small stuff. As of right now, we know of 12 fundamental particles: six quarks and six leptons. 
Definition: The muon is a fundamental particle that is part of the Standard Model of particle physics. It is a type of lepton particle, similar to the electron but with a heavier mass. The mass of a muon is about 105.7 MeV/ c 2, which is about 200 times the mass of an electron. It also possesses a negative charge and a spin of 1/2.
Muon. The muon is a lepton which decays to form an electron or positron. The fact that the above decay is a three-particle decay is an example of the conservation of lepton number; there must be one electron neutrino and one muon neutrino or antineutrino in the decay. The lifetime of the muon is 2.20 microseconds. Leptons and quarks are the basic building blocks of matter, i.e., they are seen as the elementary particles. There are six leptons in the present structure, the electron, muon, and tau particles and their associated neutrinos. The different varieties of the elementary particles are commonly called flavors, and the neutrinos here are considered to have distinctly different flavor
Suppose at some time t we have N(t) muons. If the probability that a muon decays in some small time interval dt is λdt, where λ is a constant “decay rate” that characterizes how rapidly a muon decays, then the change dN in our population of muons is just dN = −N(t) λ dt, or dN/N(t) = −λdt. The flux of sea-level muons is approximately 1 per minute per cm 2 (see http://pdg.lbl.gov for more precise numbers) with a mean kinetic energy of about 4 GeV. Careful study [pdg.lbl.gov] shows that the mean production height in the atmosphere of the muons detected at sea-level is approximately 15 km.
The muon is an unstable subatomic particle with a mean lifetime of 6994220000000000000♠2.2 µs. Among all known unstable subatomic particles, only the neutron (lasting around 15 minutes) and some atomic nuclei have a longer decay lifetime; others decay significantly faster. The muon orbits much closer to the nucleus, so muonic helium can therefore be regarded like an isotope of helium whose nucleus consists of two neutrons, two protons and a muon, with a single electron outside. Colloquially, it could be called helium 4.1, since the mass of the muon is roughly 0.1 amu.
Because charge must be conserved, one of the products of muon decay is always an electron of the same charge as the muon (a positron if it is a positive muon). Thus all muons decay to at least an electron, and two neutrinos. The muon orbits much closer to the nucleus, so muonic helium can therefore be regarded like an isotope of helium whose nucleus consists of two neutrons, two protons and a muon, with a single electron outside. Colloquially, it could be called helium 4.1, since the mass of the muon is roughly 0.1 amu.
The muon (/ˈmjuːɒn/ ; from the Greek letter mu (μ) used to represent it) is an elementary particle similar to the electron, with electric charge of −1 e and a spin of 1⁄2, but with a much greater mass (7002105700000000000♠105.7 MeV/c2). The muon orbits much closer to the nucleus, so muonic helium can therefore be regarded like an isotope of helium whose nucleus consists of two neutrons, two protons and a muon, with a single electron outside. Colloquially, it could be called helium 4.1, since the mass of the muon is roughly 0.1 amu.