Those are both caused by the release of norepinephrine in your body. Norepinephrine is a chemical released from the sympathetic nervous system in response to stress. It is classified as a neurotransmitter, a chemical that is released from neurons. Because the release of norepinephrine affects other organs of the body, it is also referred to as a stress hormone.
Norepinephrine is a neurotransmitter secreted by neurons in the sympathetic nervous system. This chemical is secreted in response to stress, which triggers the 'fight or flight response.' The release of norepinephrine causes several changes that help our body to work more efficiently. It is classified as a neurotransmitter, a chemical that is released from neurons. Because the release of norepinephrine affects other organs of the body, it is also referred to as a stress hormone.
Norepinephrine is also released in the sympathetic nervous system, causing the fight-or-flight response around the body. Norepinephrine is also a hormone which is released into the bloodstream by adrenal medulla. As a drug, it increases blood pressure. Norepinephrine (NE) , or noradrenaline, is found in the central and autonomic nervous systems. Its adjective is noradrenergic.
In the sympathetic nervous system norepinephrine is used as a neurotransmitter by sympathetic ganglia located near the spinal cord or in the abdomen, and is also released directly into the bloodstream by the adrenal glands. In the brain, norepinephrine comes from several nuclei that are small in size but project to most other parts of the brain and exert powerful effects on their targets. The most important source of norepinephrine in the brain is the locus coeruleus, located in the pons.
Norepinephrine, also known as noradrenaline, is a neurotransmitter found in the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system stimulates the heart, blood vessels, sweat glands, the large internal organs, and the adrenal medulla in the brain. 
Norepinephrine Epinephrine. Norepinephrine, also known as noradrenaline, is a neurotransmitter found in the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system stimulates the heart, blood vessels, sweat glands, the large internal organs, and the adrenal medulla in the brain. The amino acid tyrosine, found in high concentrations in cheese, is converted by specific reactions into at least two neurotransmitters – norepinephrine and dopamine. Norepinephrine is produced from dopamine, with the help of the amino acids phenylalanine, lysine, and methionine.
Norepinephrine is synthesized and released by the central nervous system and also by a division of the autonomic nervous system called the sympathetic nervous system. In the brain, norepinephrine comes from several nuclei that are small in size but project to most other parts of the brain and exert powerful effects on their targets. The most important source of norepinephrine in the brain is the locus coeruleus, located in the pons.