Many fungi play a crucial role in decomposition (breaking things down) and returning nutrients to the soil. They are also used in medicine, an example is the antibiotic penicillin, as well as in industry and food preparation. 1 Asexual reproduction-asexual spores may be produced directly from the hypha in some fungi-without the need for fruiting bodies. 2  The spores then germinate and produce additional mycelium, which spreads rapidly. 3  Experts say this allows more rapid dispersal than sexual reproduction.
Fungi (Singular: fungus) are classified within their own kingdom-The Kingdom Fungi, while some are in The Kingdom Protista. A fungus is neither a plant nor an animal. It is similar to a plant, but it has no chlorophyll and cannot make its own food like a plant can through photosynthesis. 1 Asexual reproduction-asexual spores may be produced directly from the hypha in some fungi-without the need for fruiting bodies. 2  The spores then germinate and produce additional mycelium, which spreads rapidly. 3  Experts say this allows more rapid dispersal than sexual reproduction.
The discipline of biology devoted to the study of fungi is known as mycology (from the Greek μύκης, mukēs, meaning fungus). In the past, mycology was regarded as a branch of botany; today it is a separate kingdom in biological taxonomy. 1 With plants: Fungi have a cell wall and vacuoles. 2  They reproduce by both sexual and asexual means, and like basal plant groups (such as ferns and mosses) produce spores. 3  Similar to mosses and algae, fungi typically have haploid nuclei.
Taxonomy is the classification of organisms. Although fungi are similar to plants in many ways, they do not have chlorophyll, the green pigment that enables plants to make their own food with the aid of sunlight (photosynthesis). Fungi release digestive enzymes that decompose things around them, turning them into food. 1 Asexual reproduction-asexual spores may be produced directly from the hypha in some fungi-without the need for fruiting bodies. 2  The spores then germinate and produce additional mycelium, which spreads rapidly. 3  Experts say this allows more rapid dispersal than sexual reproduction.
About fungi. Fungi are important organisms and so distinct from plants and animals that they have been allotted a 'kingdom' of their own in our classifications of life on earth. The lower case 'fungi' is a general word that refers to organisms that all look and act the same, but are not all related. This group is artificial and includes moulds, yeasts, mushrooms, slime moulds, and water moulds (like Phytophthora, the cause of the Irish potato famine and Sudden Oak Death).
Fungi. Fungi can be single celled or very complex multicellular organisms. They are found in just about any habitat but most live on the land, mainly in soil or on plant material rather than in sea or fresh water. The three major groups of fungi are: 1  multicellular filamentous moulds. 2  macroscopic filamentous fungi that form large fruiting bodies. 3  Sometimes the group is referred to as ‘mushrooms’, but the mushroom is just the part of the fungus we see above ground which is also known as the fruiting body.
Full Definition of FUNGUS. : any of a kingdom (Fungi) of saprophytic and parasitic spore-producing eukaryotic typically filamentous organisms formerly classified as plants that lack chlorophyll and include molds, rusts, mildews, smuts, mushrooms, and yeasts. See fungus defined for English-language learners. 
Fungi, singular, fungus, is a group of eukaryotic, non-phototrophic organisms with rigid cell walls, that includes mushrooms, molds and yeasts. This definition has some words in it that probably need definitions of their own. This includes mushrooms, molds and yeasts. Many fungi are saprophytes, getting nutrients by absorbing them from dead, decaying plant material. Still, other fungi are parasitic, stealing resources from a host organism. Many fungi reproduce by releasing spores.
They are both symbionts of plants, animals, or other fungi and also parasites. They may become noticeable when fruiting, either as mushrooms or as molds. Fungi perform an essential role in the decomposition of organic matter and have fundamental roles in nutrient cycling and exchange in the environment. 1 With plants: Fungi have a cell wall and vacuoles. 2  They reproduce by both sexual and asexual means, and like basal plant groups (such as ferns and mosses) produce spores. 3  Similar to mosses and algae, fungi typically have haploid nuclei.