Perfluorocarbons are a group of human-made chemicals composed of carbon and fluorine only. Perfluorocarbons are powerful greenhouse gases that were introduced as alternatives to ozone depleting substances. 
PFC liquids such as those that will be used in the study are non-reactive and have been used in a number of medical applications. For example, doctors have used perfluorocarbon fluid to assist premature infants’ ability to breathe and to help develop their lung membranes. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are chemically inactive, nontoxic, and nonflammable compounds that are found in the atmosphere at very low levels. PFCs present no known danger to humans if inhaled or ingested.
Fluorocarbons, sometimes referred to as perfluorocarbons or PFCs, are, strictly speaking, organofluorine compounds with the formula C x F y, i.e. they contain only carbon and fluorine, though the terminology is not strictly followed. Prior to that, fluorocarbons were prepared by reaction of fluorine with the hydrocarbon, i.e., direct fluorination. Because C-C bonds are readily cleaved by fluorine, direct fluorination mainly affords smaller perfluorocarbons, such as tetrafluoromethane, hexafluoroethane, and octafluoropropane.
(March 2010). Liquid breathing is a form of respiration in which a normally air-breathing organism breathes an oxygen-rich liquid (such as a perfluorocarbon), rather than breathing air. Liquid breathing for acceleration protection may never be practical because of the difficulty of finding a suitable breathing medium of similar density to water that is compatible with lung tissue. Perfluorocarbon fluids are twice as dense as water, hence unsuitable for this application.
Definition of PERFLUOROCARBON. : any of various hydrocarbon derivatives in which all hydrogen atoms have been replaced with fluorine and that include blood substitutes used in emulsified form. ADVERTISEMENT
Small chain perfluorocarbons, such as perfluoro-propane, are gases that rise inside the eye and seal retinal holes. Larger chain perfluorocarbons, such as perfluoro-octane, are liquids heavier than water and are used in surgery to immobilize an infolded retina. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are compounds derived from hydrocarbons by replacement of hydrogen atoms by fluorine atoms. PFCs are made up of atoms of carbon, fluorine, and/or sulfur.
A class of solvent molecules that can carry nonpolar gases, such as oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide. They have been used experimentally in transfusion medicine and in some ophthalmic surgeries. Perfluorocarbons are also used as blood gas controls when prepared in buffered solutions equilibrated with CO 2 and O 2. They can be used for certain blood substitute purposes, regardless of the blood type of the patient; are stable at room temperatures; have a pH of 7.4; and are free of infectious pathogens. The blood substitute is an emulsion of perfluorodecalin and perfluorotripropylamine.
Perfluorocarbons also are used in eye surgery and as a contrast agent in medical imaging. Many PFC compounds are commercially available and have been used worldwide for decades as tracers — for example, to detect leaks in electrical transmission lines and natural gas distribution lines. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are chemically inactive, nontoxic, and nonflammable compounds that are found in the atmosphere at very low levels. PFCs present no known danger to humans if inhaled or ingested.
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs). Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), PFCS. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are man-made compounds containing just fluorine and carbon. They are generally colourless, odourless non-flammable gases at environmental temperatures and for the most part chemically un-reactive. 
Medicine. Perfluorocarbons are commonly used in eye surgery as temporary replacements of the vitreous humor in retinal detachment surgery. The length of the perfluorated carbon chain determines the physical properties of a particular perfluorocarbon. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are compounds derived from hydrocarbons by replacement of hydrogen atoms by fluorine atoms. PFCs are made up of atoms of carbon, fluorine, and/or sulfur.