University of Washington professor and Gates Foundation advisor Marguerite Roza is the Indiana Jones of school finance. In her short but powerful new book, Educational Economics: Where Do School Funds Go?, Roza uncovers the hidden caves and tunnels that store the treasure of the public school system. Revealing where the money goes requires intrepid sleuthing, detailed analysis, and occasionally braving hostile natives. Non-core electives, like art, music, gym, and shop, receive higher per-pupil spending because they tend to have fewer students per class than required core subjects, like reading, math, history, and science.
If teachers did not want to get paid then give us our education for FREE!! We pay the same for our degree as a chemist and others. It is too bad our society does not feel the need to pay the teachers what they are worth, which is why many good teachers leave the field. We are so fortunate that many teachers do it for the children because you are right it is not for the money. In fact we spend hundreds of our own money to provide basic needs for our classroom. What other job requires their employee to do that or donate hundreds of extra hours, planning, grading and taking professional development classes.
The question of what American colleges and universities should spend to educate their students is addressed. Both societal and institutional factors that determine the costs of colleges' educating their students and longitudinal changes in the unit cost of higher education are examined. 
06/24/2014 at 7:11 am. It’s not that we shouldn’t spend money on schools, we *NEED* to, because we need to educate our children and ensure our future. But the the current top-down approach, with all of the decisions coming from the top (school board, etc) is really what I feel is what would need to changed. Non-core electives, like art, music, gym, and shop, receive higher per-pupil spending because they tend to have fewer students per class than required core subjects, like reading, math, history, and science.
WHERE THE MONEY GOES. The new figures also show what schools spend their money on-with teaching the largest category, taking up on between 73% and 23% of primary budgets, and 73% and 27% of secondary budgets. But academies get access to their own share of this money, which can push their budgets up by 1% to 15%. Therefore, if a local authority has a lot of academies, it may spend more on its schools than the data suggests.
However, this does not mean the schools spending most are necessarily those that get the most government funding. The figures also give the proportion of income that each school generates itself-perhaps from donors, endowments or an active Parent Teacher Association. On average this is just 4%, but it varies widely. But academies get access to their own share of this money, which can push their budgets up by 1% to 15%. Therefore, if a local authority has a lot of academies, it may spend more on its schools than the data suggests.
Our children represent our future — and a good education is essential to theirs. Children use the skills and knowledge they learn in school to establish a firm foundation for their — and in turn all of ours — future. In fact we spend hundreds of our own money to provide basic needs for our classroom. What other job requires their employee to do that or donate hundreds of extra hours, planning, grading and taking professional development classes.
February 08, 2011 by Rossier Staff. We’ve put together this infographic that compares the United States’ education spend and performance versus eleven countries. The U.S. is the clear leader in total annual spending, but ranks 9th in Science performance and 10th in Math. 
However, excluding certain expenditures before reporting the percentage spent on instruction makes it impossible for citizens and politicians to determine how much is spent on K-12 education per year. For example, Los Angeles schools report that instructional spending is 59 percent of their total expenditures. Detroit, for example, proposed eliminating a $327 million deficit by closing half its schools and doubling average class sizes to 62 students. However, school district budgets can be cut without touching classroom spending.