The park derives its name from the Great Basin, the dry and mountainous region between the Sierra Nevada and the Wasatch Mountains. Topographically, this area is known as the Basin and Range Province. The park is located approximately 290 miles (470 km) north of Las Vegas and protects 77,180 acres (31,230 ha).
Black Rock Desert: A subdivision of the Great Basin Desert located in northwestern Nevada just northeast of Pyramid Lake. Borrego Desert: The term Borrego Desert is an informal term, rather than an official one. Officially there is no Borrego Desert. Great American Desert: An ill-defined, semiarid region of the Great Plains, or, all of the North American deserts combined. Great Sandy Desert: A subdivision of the Great Basin Desert located in southeastern Oregon. Northern Mojave Desert: The Mojave north of Las Vegas, Nevada. Magdalena Desert: The Sonoran Desert on the lowest third of the Baja Peninsula
The Great Basin Desert is one of four U.S. deserts, occupying a large portion of Nevada, portions of California, Oregon and Idaho, and the western desert reaches of Utah. The Great Basin’s 7 to 12 inches of annual precipitation falls throughout the year, rather than during specific seasons, and occurs primarily as snow. Snow may fall at any time of the year at higher elevations, even while the low elevations see summer heat and afternoon thunderstorms.
The Great Basin Visitor Center is located on Nevada State Route 487 in the town of Baker. The Lehman Caves Visitor Center is located on Nevada State Route 488. It is 5.5 miles (8.9 km) from Baker, Nevada, 1⁄2 mile (800 m) inside the park boundary. Topographically, this area is known as the Basin and Range Province. The park is located approximately 290 miles (470 km) north of Las Vegas and protects 77,180 acres (31,230 ha).
Most of the Great Basin watershed is located in the state of Nevada, but includes parts of the neighboring states of California, Oregon, Idaho, and Utah. + 69 others found this useful. Sunny Mahajan. Confidence votes 717. The Great Basin is a group of basins and mountain ranges in the western US, mostly in Nevada but also including parts of California, Oregon, Idaho and Utah. The basin area is generally between the Sierra and Cascade Mountains to the west and the Rocky Mountains to the east.
Great Basin National Park is a United States National Park located in White Pine County in east-central Nevada, near the Utah border. The park was established in 1986. Topographically, this area is known as the Basin and Range Province. The park is located approximately 290 miles (470 km) north of Las Vegas and protects 77,180 acres (31,230 ha).
Most of the Great Basin watershed is located in the state of Nevada, but includes parts of the neighboring states of California, Oregon, Idaho, and Utah. + 69 others found this useful. Sunny Mahajan. Edit. Share to: Don Dfoofnik. Most of Lake Mead and the Great Basin are located in the state of Nevada. But part of Lake Mead is also in northwestern Arizona (behind the Hoover Dam) and the Great Basin tec … hnically includes parts of the other four states (Oregon, California, Idaho, and Utah) that border Nevada. Joshua Polsky.
The Great Basin physiographic section is a geographic division of the Basin and Range Province defined by Nevin Fenneman in 1931. The United States Geological Survey adapted Fenneman's scheme in their Physiographic division of the United States. The section is somewhat larger than the hydrographic definition. The Great Basin's longest and largest river is the Bear River of 350 mi (560 km), and the largest single watershed is the Humboldt River drainage of roughly 17,000 sq mi (44,000 km 2).