The fruit is rich in B-complex group of vitamins. It contains very good amounts of vitamin B-6, niacin, riboflavin, pantothenic acid and folic acid. These vitamins are acting as co-factors help the body metabolize carbohydrate, proteins and fats. 
Strawberries are very high in vitamin C and fiber. Strawberries are also a great source of antioxidents which have shown to play a role in fighting free radicals (cancer causing cells.). One cup of strawberries includes 140% of your daily dose of vitamin C. Some people are allergic to strawberries and experience itching and swelling of the mouth and throat after consumption. Some varieties of strawberries have a certain protein that cause this to happen.
Vitamin E and Vitamin K. Vitamin E and vitamin K are fat-soluble vitamins, which means they're stored in the body. Over-consumption of vitamin E may lead to toxicity, so you shouldn't have more than 1,000 milligrams a day. Vitamin K toxicity is rare and an upper intake hasn't been established. Thiamin, riboflavin and niacin share similar functions. They’re all coenzymes needed to turn food into energy, ensure healthy skin, keep the nervous system working and to create red blood cells. One cup of whole strawberries provides about 3 percent of the recommended daily value of these three B vitamins.
Strawberries are very high in vitamin C and fiber. Strawberries are also a great source of antioxidents which have shown to play a role in fighting free radicals (cancer causi … ng cells.). 
A powerful antioxidant, vitamin E protects essential lipids and vitamin A from damage caused by free radicals. Vitamin K is essential to blood clotting and it regulates bone mineralization. One cup of whole strawberries has .4 milligrams, or 3 percent, of the recommended daily intake of both vitamins. Thiamin, riboflavin and niacin share similar functions. They’re all coenzymes needed to turn food into energy, ensure healthy skin, keep the nervous system working and to create red blood cells. One cup of whole strawberries provides about 3 percent of the recommended daily value of these three B vitamins.