In religion, the charge of schism is distinguished from that of heresy, since the offence of schism concerns not differences of belief or doctrine but promotion of, or the state of, division. However, schisms frequently involve mutual accusations of heresy.
Usage Note: The word schism, which was originally spelled scisme, cisme, and sisme in English, is traditionally pronounced (sĭz′əm), without a (k) sound. The modern spelling with the h dates back to the 16th century, when the word was respelled to resemble its Latin and Greek ancestors.
noun. The definition of a schism is a split of a group into different sections as a result of a difference in beliefs. When members of a church congregation disagree and divide into two separate churches based on their different beliefs, this is an example of a schism.
Full Definition of SCHISM. 1. 2. a: formal division in or separation from a church or religious body b: the offense of promoting schism. See schism defined for English-language learners.
A schism (pronounced /ˈsɪzəm/ SIZ-əm, /ˈskɪzəm/ SKIZ-əm or, less commonly, /ˈʃɪzəm/ SHIZ-əm) is a division between people, usually belonging to an organization, movement, or religious denomination.
The Great Schism is the name given to the division of the Roman Catholic Church in which rival popes sat in both Rome and Avignon. It is also called the Great Schism in Western Christendom and the Great Western Schism. This is to help identify between this rift in the church and an earlier schism which occurred in 1054.
A schismatic is a person who creates or incites schism in an organization or who is a member of a splinter group. Schismatic as an adjective means pertaining to a schism or schisms, or to those ideas, policies, etc. that are thought to lead towards or promote schism.
In religious terms, a schism is a special kind of division or  separation among persons who lay claim to a common faith. That is,  a schism occurs when persons from the … same religious faith  disagree about a matter of fundamental importance in their faith --  and act on it, as well.