A pump used to process and move waste fluids with high solids content. They are very similar to slurry pumps, mud pumps, and other types of waste water pumps. Sludge pumps require a high-powered mechanism to move fluids that are often very heavy and sometimes viscous and full of volatile or corrosive content.
Our slurry pumps and replacement parts are the go-to source for heavy-duty centrifugal slurry pumps in industries like hard-rock mining, mineral processing, power generation, aggregate processing, or any type of slurry pumping application. Schurco Slurry® manufactures high quality heavy-duty slurry pumps, pump parts, and provides pump services to a wide array of markets worldwide.
In other applications, a slurry pump is used to keep solids suspended by preventing any settling or other separation of the solids from a liquid medium. Certain compounds and other materials require suspension in water for safe transport, utilizing a slurry pump to keep compounds suspended through constant motion. Different applications naturally require different centrifugal pumps. Typically, a slurry pump is intended for use as a submersible pump, since applications most often require high pressure that is best achieved when the impeller is placed in the slurry.
Both of these slurries are captured and pumped through a filter press before reconditioning/recycling. Slurry is a generic term for any type of thick suspension of solids in a liquid. Slurries are used for a variety of purposes in construction, ceramics, paper, explosives, and many other industries. In the solar manufacturing industry, slurry is used as polishing or cutting agent. 
A slurry is a thin sloppy mud or cement or, in extended use, any fluid mixture of a pulverized solid with a liquid (usually water), often used as a convenient way of handling solids in bulk. Slurries behave in some ways like thick fluids, flowing under gravity but are also capable of being pumped if not too thick. 
A slurry pump is a type of water pump intended for use in situations where solids are accidentally or intentionally suspended in water. Different applications naturally require different centrifugal pumps. Typically, a slurry pump is intended for use as a submersible pump, since applications most often require high pressure that is best achieved when the impeller is placed in the slurry.
A slurry pump is a type of centrifugal pump, lobe pump or peristaltic hose pump in physics principle that increases the pressure of liquid and solid particle mixture (aka slurry), through centrifugal force (a rotating impeller) and converts electrical energy into slurry potential and kinetic energy. A split fit allows the sleeve removed or installed quickly. Slurry Pump Shaft Seal: Expeller drive seal, packing seal, Mechanical seal. Slurry Pump Drive Type: V-belt drive, gear reducer drive, fluid coupling drive, and frequency conversion drive devices.
In addition, the internal passageways of the slurry pumps are often larger because it is sometimes necessary to pass large solids. Although solids of various sizes can be pumped with use of a slurry pump, the effective limitation is typically around 12 inches in diameter. By comparison, dredge pumps, however, can move slurry with solids of up to 18 inches because they have larger passages. Posted on September 3, 2014 by David Manney. Many different types of industry make use of a variety of pumps in order to transport material from one location to another. In the mining industry, solid material of various sizes is often mixed with water in order to create a slurry.
(December 2010). A slurry pump is a type of centrifugal pump, lobe pump or peristaltic hose pump in physics principle that increases the pressure of liquid and solid particle mixture (aka slurry), through centrifugal force (a rotating impeller) and converts electrical energy into slurry potential and kinetic energy. Slurry pumps are widely used to transport corrosive / abrasive and high concentration slurry in many industries such as Gold, Silver, Iron ore, Tin, Steel, Coal, Titanium, Copper, Mineral sands, Lead and Zinc.