Essentially what you get when you remove the cellulose from the root of a chicory plant, a common weed that grows in Europe from Spain to Turkey. It has some unusual characteristics that make sweet and yet have carbohydrates and fats. 
Although it's unlikely that you'll find chicory root in its raw, root form in the supermarket, it is often available in health stores in its ground form or as a supplement. Inulin, a fiber derived from chicory root, is often added to food products to boost fiber content. Chicory root possesses a number of health benefits that make it appealing to those who aren't fond of coffee or would rather avoid the drink's high caffeine content and its side effects. The inulin in chicory root is a prebiotic, which means it contributes positively to the healthy bacteria in your gut. It can also prevent the growth of unhealthy bacteria and might suppress diseases such as colon cancer, according to the American Institute for Cancer Research.
Chicory root is the root portion of the chicory vegetable and is often used as a substitute for coffee once it's roasted and ground. Ground chicory root has a flavor somewhat reminiscent of coffee, but it doesn't contain caffeine and is also cheaper than traditional coffee. The inulin in chicory root is a prebiotic, which means it contributes positively to the healthy bacteria in your gut. It can also prevent the growth of unhealthy bacteria and might suppress diseases such as colon cancer, according to the American Institute for Cancer Research.
A: Chicory root is the most common source of a substance called inulin, and it is now added to a wide variety of bars, cereals and bread, and even foods which naturally provide no fiber, such as yogurt, ice cream, cottage cheese, juice and chocolate bars. 
Chicory root is a valuable source of inulin, a type of dietary fiber. The root is often extracted and added to a variety of food products -- breakfast bars, cereal, bread and sometimes even dairy products and chocolate bars -- in order to increase the fiber content. The inulin in chicory root is a prebiotic, which means it contributes positively to the healthy bacteria in your gut. It can also prevent the growth of unhealthy bacteria and might suppress diseases such as colon cancer, according to the American Institute for Cancer Research.
Common chicory is also known as blue daisy, blue dandelion, blue sailors, blue weed, bunk, coffeeweed, cornflower, hendibeh, horseweed, ragged sailors, succory, wild bachelor's buttons, and wild endive. It is used as a source of soluble fiber. Fresh chicory root typically contains, by dry weight, 68% inulin, 14% sucrose, 5% cellulose, 6% protein, 4% ash, and 3% other compounds.
Chicory is the roasted and ground root of the cultivated plant species, Chicorium Intybus, subspecies Sativum. Common names include 'large rooted chicory' and 'chicoree a cafe'. Café coffee chicory is grown in many parts of the, world with the largest producers In france And South.. africa Coffee chicory is grown in many parts of the world, with the largest producers in France and South Africa.. The root is grown and harvested much like sugar beets.The roots are pulled from the ground with specialized equipment, cut into small pieces, kiln dried, roasted, ground and packaged.
Inulin is a type of fiber that's found in certain plant foods. Chicory root is the main source of inulin in supplement form. Chicory was originally found in Europe and Asia. Egyptians grew it thousands of years ago as a medicine. 
Chicory, more precisely root chicory (Cichorium intybus), grows all over the United States and is cultivated in Mediterranean areas in Europe, where it is roasted, ground, and used as a coffee substitute. Sometimes called chicory root fiber, inulin is also found in bananas, wheat, onions, and garlic, but chicory root has very high concentrations. Food manufacturers now extract inulin from chicory root and add it to edible products such as yogurt, ice cream, chocolate bars, breakfast bars, salad dressings and margarine.