I mention this as a breast cancer survivor once asked if she could take DHEA. I quoted a study by Genazzani (yes, the same scientist with the new study) published nine years ago in which postmenopausal women were given DHEA 25 mg pills for a year. Their blood levels of estradiol were 90 picograms. This is a level found in young, ovulating women. Surprisingly, no undue stimulation of the lining of the uterus has been found in studies where menopausal women were given DHEA 25 mg or 50 mg. However, the women were followed for only 12 months.
The following doses have been studied in scientific research: BY MOUTH 1  : In postmenopausal women and in elderly men: Doses of 25-50 mg daily are commonly used. 2  For treatment of schizophrenia: Increasing doses of DHEA of 25 mg daily for 2 weeks, 25 mg two times daily for 2 weeks, and 50 mg two times daily for 2 weeks. 1 Withdrawal symptoms. 2  Early research shows that taking 100 mg of DHEA daily together with standard therapy for 12 months does not improve symptoms of drug withdrawal in people addicted to heroin. 3  Taking 100 mg of DHEA daily for 12 weeks also did not improve symptoms of cocaine withdrawal.
Overview. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a hormone produced by the body's adrenal glands. The body uses DHEA to make androgens and estrogens, the male and female sex hormones. DHEA levels peak at about age 25, then go down steadily as you get older. By the time people are 70 to 80 years old, their DHEA levels are only 10 to 20% those in young adults. 
In normal menstruating women, about 40 percent of their testosterone arises from the ovaries, while the remaining 60 percent comes from conversion of DHEA produced in the adrenal glands. DHEA is also estimated to contribute 70 percent of estrogens before menopause and nearly 100 percent after menopause. Menopause. Given the link between DHEA and sex hormones, the role that DHEA plays in menopause and its many symptoms has been examined, with interesting results. In one study of twenty postmenopausal women who took 25 mg DHEA daily for twelve months, the results were significant. These women showed progressive increases in their levels of testosterone, estradiol, estrone, progesterone, and growth hormone with corresponding improvements in symptoms
In one study that focused on men, scientists proposed that the oral administration of DHEA to elderly men would result in activation of their immune system: nine healthy men averaging 63 years of age were treated with a placebo for two weeks followed by 20 weeks of DHEA (50 mg a day). 
Women taking low-dose DHEA (10 mg per day) for 1 year experienced a significant reduction in menopausal symptoms, while improving sexual function and frequency of sexual intercourse. DHEA is the primary hormone produced by your adrenal glands. 
1 In postmenopausal women and in elderly men: Doses of 25-50 mg daily are commonly used. 2  For treatment of schizophrenia: Increasing doses of DHEA of 25 mg daily for 2 weeks, 25 mg two times daily for 2 weeks, and 50 mg two times daily for 2 weeks. 1 Withdrawal symptoms. 2  Early research shows that taking 100 mg of DHEA daily together with standard therapy for 12 months does not improve symptoms of drug withdrawal in people addicted to heroin. 3  Taking 100 mg of DHEA daily for 12 weeks also did not improve symptoms of cocaine withdrawal.
However, there have been other studies which do not suggest that DHEA works any better than a placebo pill. In one year-long study, 93 women with low desire were randomly assigned to take a sugar pill or DHEA 50 mg (five times more DHEA than the current study). This is a level found in young, ovulating women. Surprisingly, no undue stimulation of the lining of the uterus has been found in studies where menopausal women were given DHEA 25 mg or 50 mg. However, the women were followed for only 12 months.
1 DHEA supplements may interfere with other medications thus you should take it only under medical supervision. 2  If you're under the age of 40 and have normal DHEA levels (at least 130 mg/dL for women and 180 mg/dL for men) then DHEA supplements is not for you. 1 If you're under the age of 40 and have normal DHEA levels (at least 130 mg/dL for women and 180 mg/dL for men) then DHEA supplements is not for you. 2  When taking DHEA you should monitor your blood levels every 6 months. 3  So far, there's still no reliable study on the long-term safety use of DHEA.