Trilobites from Fossil Era. Trilobite fossils are some of the most beautiful and collectible fossils in the world! There are countless species and countless colors of trilobites. They make beautiful display pieces and conversation pieces. Trilobites probably arose from a soft bodied ancestor in the Pre-Cambrian. The first actual trilobites fossils found are from the Cambrian. Based on the variety of Early Cambrian fossils and the wide distribution, trilobites probably evolved sometime in the Pre-Cambrian. Once Trilobites made their appearance, they dominated the Paleozoic seas, many new orders and families quickly appeared
Human fascination with trilobites apparently has a long history. Archaeologists have found trilobites associated with ancient human remains. At Arcy-sur-Cure, in France, a Silurian trilobite was found along with 15,000-year-old human remains. Description: Trilobites were some of the first multicellular animals to live in the world's oceans. Their fossil record extends back 530 million years to the early part of the Cambrian Period and indicates that trilobites evolved rapidly in the shallow seas of this time. In fact, trilobite fossils are so common in Cambrian rocks that the Cambrian Period is sometimes called the age of trilobites. Elrathia kingi is a common trilobite that lived during the Middle Cambrian Period
Trilobite fossils have been found in Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Mississippian, and Pennsylvanian rocks in Kentucky, but are perhaps most commonly found in the Ordovician and Silurian rocks. One of the most abundant trilobite fossils is Flexicalymene meeki, which is typically found in the rolled-up form. Because trilobites are arthropods, they shed their exoskeletons, a process called molting, as they grew. This is why broken fragments of trilobites are common in Ordovician rocks. The fossils below are fossil molts of Ordovician trilobites.
Swarms of up to a thousand giant trilobites—extinct marine arthropods such as this 35-inch-long (90-centimeter-long) fossil specimen—roamed shallow prehistoric seas, new fossils show. The 465-million-year-old fossils, found recently in northern Portugal, are of the largest trilobites ever discovered. The trilobites may have clustered to mate and molt—shedding old exoskeletons as new ones grew in—as well as avoid predators, scientists say.
Trilobite fossils are found worldwide, with many thousands of known species. Because they appeared quickly in geological time, and moulted like other arthropods, trilobites serve as excellent index fossils, enabling geologists to date the age of the rocks in which they are found. Trilobites finally disappeared in the mass extinction at the end of the Permian about 250 million years ago. The trilobites were among the most successful of all early animals, roaming the oceans for over 270 million years.
These Kansas fossils are records of some of the last trilobites to live on Earth. Trilobite fossils found in Kansas rocks often consist of the pygidia, or tails, of either Ameura or Ditomopyge. This specimen of Ameura was collected from the Pennsylvanian Drum Limestone of Independence, Kansas. Description: Trilobites were some of the first multicellular animals to live in the world's oceans. Their fossil record extends back 530 million years to the early part of the Cambrian Period and indicates that trilobites evolved rapidly in the shallow seas of this time. In fact, trilobite fossils are so common in Cambrian rocks that the Cambrian Period is sometimes called the age of trilobites. Elrathia kingi is a common trilobite that lived during the Middle Cambrian Period
Trilobites make up one of the most fascinating and diverse groups in the fossil record. Over the course of their long history — which dates back to near the beginning of the Cambrian period, around 520 million years ago — they have inhabited a wide range of marine environments, from reefs to abyssal depths. 