In this article. Dwarfism is a condition of short stature. It is defined by the advocacy group Little People of America (LPA) as an adult height of 4 feet 10 inches or under, as a result of a medical or genetic condition. The most common form of dwarfism, achondroplasia occurs in about one out of 26,000 to 40,000 babies and is evident at birth. People with achondroplasia have a relatively long trunk and shortened upper parts of their arms and legs.
The medical term for dwarfism is restricted growth. The condition is typically characterized by a short stature and various other symptoms, depending on the cause of the condition. Symptoms and causes of dwarfism. Dwarfism is generally defined as an adult height that is below 4 feet 10 inches (147 cm) and the average height among individuals with dwarfism is 4 feet (122 cm).
There is no single treatment for dwarfism. Individual differences, such as bone growth disorders, sometimes can be treated through surgery, some hormone disorders can be treated through medication, and by hormone replacement therapy; this treatment must be done before the child's growth plates fuse. The most recognizable and most common form of dwarfism in humans is achondroplasia, which accounts for 70% of dwarfism cases, occurs in 4 to 15 out of 100,000 live births. It produces rhizomelic short limbs, increased spinal curvature, and distortion of skull growth.
Achondroplasia. The most common form of dwarfism, achondroplasia occurs in about one out of 26,000 to 40,000 babies and is evident at birth. People with achondroplasia have a relatively long trunk and shortened upper parts of their arms and legs.
Dwarfism (UK : /ˈdwɔːfɪsəm/ ; US : /ˈdwɔrfɪzəm/) occurs when an individual person or animal is short in stature resulting from a medical condition caused by slow growth. In humans, dwarfism is sometimes defined as an adult height of less than 4 feet 10 inches (58 in; 147 cm). The most recognizable and most common form of dwarfism in humans is achondroplasia, which accounts for 70% of dwarfism cases, occurs in 4 to 15 out of 100,000 live births. It produces rhizomelic short limbs, increased spinal curvature, and distortion of skull growth.
1 Dwarfism: Short stature. 2  There are several types of dwarfism: acromelic (short hand and foot bones), mesomelic (short forearm and lower leg bones) and rhizomelic (short upper arm and leg bones). 3  Dwarfism: a genetic abnormality resulting in short stature. 1 There are several types of dwarfism: acromelic (short hand and foot bones), mesomelic (short forearm and lower leg bones) and rhizomelic (short upper arm and leg bones). 2
Causes. Most dwarfism-related conditions are genetic disorders, but the causes of some disorders are unknown. Most occurrences of dwarfism result from a random genetic mutation in either the father's sperm or the mother's egg rather than from either parent's complete genetic makeup. 
Definition. Dwarfism is short stature that results from a genetic or medical condition. Dwarfism is generally defined as an adult height of 4 feet 10 inches (147 centimeters) or less. The average adult height among people with dwarfism is 4 feet (122 cm). Many different medical conditions cause dwarfism. In general, the disorders are divided into two broad categories: 1  Disproportionate dwarfism.
There are many causes of dwarfism. In fact, more than 200 conditions are known to cause short stature. However, one medical condition, achondroplasia, accounts for the majority of the cases of dwarfism. Achondroplasia is the most common type of short-limbed dwarfism. Typical features of people with achondroplasia includes: average-size trunk, short arms and legs with particularly short upper arms and thighs, limited range of motion at the elbows, and an enlarged head (macrocephaly). According to the advocacy group Little People of America (LPA), dwarfism is a term that denotes short stature. For humans, dwarfism is defined as any adult with a height of 4 feet 10 inches or less. The most typical range in adult height among people with dwarfism is 2 feet 8 inches to 4 feet 8 inches. slide 2 of 6.
1 Achondroplasia is a genetic disorder of bone growth. 2  Achondroplasia is the cause of the most common type of dwarfism (short-limbed disproportionate dwarfism). 3  Achondroplasia is the most common cause of short stature with disproportionately short limbs. 4  The appearance of the person with achondroplasia is characteristic. 1 Achondroplasia is the cause of the most common type of dwarfism (short-limbed disproportionate dwarfism). 2  Achondroplasia is the most common cause of short stature with disproportionately short limbs. 3  The appearance of the person with achondroplasia is characteristic. 4  Intelligence is normal in people with achondroplasia.