Dom. n. 1. (also dōN) Used formerly as a title for male members of Portuguese and Brazilian royalty, aristocracy, and hierarchy, preceding the given name. 2. Roman Catholic Church Used as a title before the names of Benedictine and Carthusian monks in major or minor orders. [Portuguese, from Latin. 
Dom is a rare first name for men but a very popular surname for all people (#41924 out of 150436, Top 28%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of the boy name Dom and affiliated names. Prominent varying forms of Dom (unlisted) are Domenic, Domenico, Domingo, Domini, Dominic (#69 a year ago) , Dominick (#310) , Dominik (#616) , Dominique (#946) and Nick.
The name Dom is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Dom is: Lord. Latin Meaning: The name Dom is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Dom is: The Lord's. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated
Meaning of Dom. English name. In English, the name Dom means-Diminutive of Dominick: Lord.. Other origins for the name Dom include-English, Latin-American.The name Dom is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Diminutive of Dominick: Lord. Origin-English.
Dom /dom/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Latin derivation, and the meaning of the name Dom is lord. Dom is an alternate form of Dominic (Latin). Dim is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Dommi, Dommo. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of the boy name Dom and affiliated names. Prominent varying forms of Dom (unlisted) are Domenic, Domenico, Domingo, Domini, Dominic (#69 a year ago) , Dominick (#310) , Dominik (#616) , Dominique (#946) and Nick.
Look up Dominic in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Dominic is a name common among Roman Catholics and other Latin-Romans as a boys name. Originally from the late Roman-Italic name Dominicus its translation means Of Our Lord, Lordly, Belonging to God or of the Master. 
Meaning of Dom. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Dom means-belonging to god. Other origins for the name Dom include-Latin-American, English.The name Dom is most often used as a boy name or male name. Latin-American Name Meaning-belonging to god. Origin-Latin-America
Origin of the name Dominic: Derived from the Latin Dominicus (belonging to a lord), which is from dominus (a lord, a master). Var: Domenic, Dominick, Dominyck, Dominyk, Domonic, Domonick. Short: Dom, Nick. 