The length of time it will take to heal will depend on the type of fracture, whether it's damaged the surrounding tissues, and the person's age. For example, a young child who's cracked their wrist will need to wear a cast or removable splint for just two to three weeks.
Fractures in adults generally take six weeks to heal. After six weeks, there is usually a fair amount of stiffness that needs to be worked out before unrestricted use is possible. Usually you can do this at home, but you may need two or three visits with a therapist to get you started.
Most distal radius fractures take 4-6 weeks to heal. If the wrist is stiff after the cast comes off, hand therapy exercises can be performed to help. Most patients regain range of motion, strength, and function gradually over the subsequent 2-3 months.
You will probably also want to: 1  Elevate your wrist on a pillow or the back of a chair above the level of your heart for the first few days. 2  This will ease pain and swelling. 3  Ice the wrist. 4  Do this for 15-20 minutes every two to three hours for two to three days. 5  Be careful to keep the splint or cast dry while icing.
A Colles' fracture -- or distal radius fracture -- is often called a ''broken wrist.'' Technically, it's a break in the larger of the two bones in your forearm. The bone breaks on the lower end, close to where it connects to the bones of the hand on the thumb side of the wrist.
The wrist is made up of the radius and the ulna plus eight carpal bones. Many of the ligaments connect the bones to each other. A fracture occurs when there is a break or crack in one or more of the bones. Wrist fractures have different healing times and vary based on the type of break and the severity.
A wrist fracture is a medical term for a broken wrist. The wrist is made up of eight small bones which connect with the two long forearm bones called the radius and ulna. Although a broken wrist can happen in any of these 10 bones, by far the most common bone to break is the radius.
A broken arm or wrist is usually caused by a fall onto an outstretched arm. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures.