Air is mainly composed of nitrogen, oxygen, and argon, which together constitute the major gases of the atmosphere. Water vapor accounts for roughly 0.25% of the atmosphere by mass. The atmosphere of Earth is the layer of gases surrounding the planet Earth that is retained by Earth's gravity.
Composition of Earth's atmosphere by volume. The lower pie represents the trace gases that together compose about 0.038% of the atmosphere (0.043% with CO 2 at 2014 concentration). The numbers are from a variety of years (mainly 1987, with CO 2 and methane from 2009) and do not represent any single source. The atmosphere of Earth is the layer of gases surrounding the planet Earth that is retained by Earth's gravity.
You need to know the proportions of the main gases in the atmosphere. The Earth’s atmosphere has remained much the same for the past 200 million years. The pie chart shows the proportions of the main gases in the atmosphere. The composition of air. The two main gases are both elements and account for about 99 percent of the gases in the atmosphere. They are: 1  about 4 / 5 or 80 percent nitrogen (a relatively unreactive gas). 2  about 1 / 5 or 20 percent oxygen (the gas that allows animals and plants to respire and for fuels to burn). 
The most abundant gases found in our atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen. Nitrogen makes up around 78% of the total atmosphere, while oxygen makes up 21%. The remaining 1% is made up mostly of a gas called argon. Oxygen is the most important of the gases in our atmosphere in relation to animal life. Almost all animals use oxygen as a critical ingredient for the processes of life. Without it, each of us and most of the animals on Earth would perish in a matter of just a few minutes.
By volume, dry air contains 78.09% nitrogen, 20.95% oxygen, 0.93% argon, 0.039% carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases. Air also contains a variable amount of water vapor, on average around 1% at sea level, and 0.4% over the entire atmosphere. The atmosphere of Earth is the layer of gases surrounding the planet Earth that is retained by Earth's gravity.
The general concepts found in this section are: 1  The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3  Various trace gases make up the remainder.
What are the four main gases in the atmosphere? Answer The Earth's atmosphere contains roughly by volume: 78.08% nitrogen 20.95% oxygen 0.93% argon 0.038% carbon dioxide and trace amounts of other gases, and a variable amou … nt of water vapor. the main three gases in air are nitrogen, oxygen and inert gases 78% of air is made up of nitrogen, 21% is oxygen, just under 1% is argon and the remaining part is made up o … f other gases such as carbon dioxide and water vapour. + 9 others found this useful.
Table 7a-1 lists the eleven most abundant gases found in the Earth's lower atmosphere by volume. Of the gases listed, nitrogen, oxygen, water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone are extremely important to the health of the Earth's biosphere. The table indicates that nitrogen and oxygen are the main components of the atmosphere by volume. Together these two gases make up approximately 99% of the dry atmosphere. Both of these gases have very important associations with life.
1 Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 2  Various trace gases make up the remainder. 3  Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3