The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. This DNA polymerase enzymatically assembles a new DNA strand from DNA building-blocks, the nucleotides, by using single-stranded DNA as a template and DNA oligonucleotides (also called DNA primers), which are required for initiation of DNA synthesis.
Since DNA polymerase requires a free 3' OH group for initiation of synthesis, it can synthesize in only one direction by extending the 3' end of the preexisting nucleotide chain. Hence, DNA polymerase moves along the template strand in a 3'-5' direction, and the daughter strand is formed in a 5'-3' direction. This difference enables the resultant double-strand DNA formed to be composed of two DNA strands that are antiparallel to each other. DNA polymerase moves along the old strand in the 3'-5' direction, creating a new strand having a 5'-3' direction. DNA polymerase with proofreading ability. The main function of DNA polymerase is to make DNA from nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA.
Answers. Best Answer: B) DNA polymerases are the enzymes that make DNA from DNA for the most part. A) The mRNA to cDNA reaction is performed by reverse transcriptase in vitro C) Ribosomes convert mRNA into Proteins D) RNA transcriptase converts the DNA gene into mRNA Read the section on the Central Dogma of Biology. Source(s): Lewin Genes VIII. Asclepius · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. DNA polymerase moves along the old strand in the 3'-5' direction, creating a new strand having a 5'-3' direction. DNA polymerase with proofreading ability. The main function of DNA polymerase is to make DNA from
DNA polymerase is an enzyme. This enzyme synthesizes a new DNA strand from an old DNA template and also works to repair the DNA in order to avoid mutations. DNA polymerase catalyzes the formation of the phosphodiester bond which makes up the backbone of DNA molecules. The reaction catalyzed by DNA polymerases that works to elongate the chain is a nucleophilic attack by the 3’OH terminus of the growing chain on the innermost phosphorus atom of the deoxynucleotide triphosphate. Therefore, a primer strand with a free 3'-OH group must be bound to the template strand from the start.
DNA polymerase is the chief enzyme of DNA replication. It helps to synthesize and catalyze the bonds between the nucleic acids in DNA (adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine). DN … A polymerase is an enzyme that are involved in DNA synthesis. I, II and III are known in of growing   * Yes. DNA polymerases, like most enzymes, are proteins, and the code for their primary structure (their amino acid sequences) is included in the genome.       Yes, DNA does code for DNA polymerase.
In other words, DNA polymerase is an enzyme that synthesizes a product by interpreting the existing DNA strand as a template and produces the complementary sequence of the template into a new strand. 3. DNA polymerases necessitate the presence of a primer to start synthesis. The reaction catalyzed by DNA polymerases that works to elongate the chain is a nucleophilic attack by the 3’OH terminus of the growing chain on the innermost phosphorus atom of the deoxynucleotide triphosphate. Therefore, a primer strand with a free 3'-OH group must be bound to the template strand from the start.
The enzyme that catalyzes DNA replication is known as DNA  polymerase. Helicase is another enzyme that is used in the process  of DNA replication. I, II and III are known in of growing   * Yes. DNA polymerases, like most enzymes, are proteins, and the code for their primary structure (their amino acid sequences) is included in the genome.       Yes, DNA does code for DNA
The polymerase chain reaction catalyzed by Taq DNA polymerase has been used for site-specific mutagenesis. The amplification was primed by two oligodeoxyribonucleotides complementary to insulin receptor cDNA. To direct the synthesis of mutant DNA, mismatches were introduced into one of the primers. Use of polymerase chain reaction catalyzed by Taq DNA polymerase for site-specific mutagenesis. Kadowaki H, Kadowaki T, Wondisford FE, Taylor SI. Diabetes Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, MD.
Retroviruses possess a unique DNA polymerase (reverse transcriptase) that uses an RNA template. triphosphates. I, II and III are known in of growing   * Yes. DNA polymerases, like most enzymes, are proteins, and the code for their primary structure (their amino acid sequences) is included in the genome.       Yes, DNA does code for DNA polymerase. Every protein made by the cell (as far is known) must be coded for somewhere in the DNA