Full-spectrum salt always has a non-white color. Celtic Sea Salt, for example (which is really good salt) has a brownish sandy color. Our Pink Himalayan salt is a sort of sandy rose color. All the truly natural full-spectrum salts are sandy or brownish in color. Himalayan Pink Crystal Salt normally sells for $14.95 per pound. • Full-spectrum salt is a crucial preparedness item. Your body cannot live without salt, and in a crisis situation, real salt may be very difficult to come by in many areas. Storing full-spectrum salt is not only good for your health today; it's a type of nutritional insurance against future food shortages.
Photo Credit Creatas Images/Creatas/Getty Images. Himalayan salt is sometimes called pink salt or rose salt because of its pale rose color. A natural salt, it is harvested in mountains in Pakistan and is prized by some for its nutritional content and the fact that it is unprocessed. Using in Brine Therapy. Because of its mineral content, Himalayan salt can also be used in brine therapy, where it can help regulate your blood circulation and pressure, as well as treat skin diseases and help restore your acid-base balance.
Over the years, salt has become demonized and linked to a plethora of chronic diseases. But it’s not the salt that’s evil; it’s what we do to it that causes all the problems! Salt in its pure form contains minerals that are essential to health. But natural salt, such as Himalayan salt, has nothing in common with the refined table and cooking salt that’s gotten such a bad name—and for good reason! Why Table Salt is Terrible for Your Health. Free of toxins and pollutants, Himalayan salt is a pure, full-spectrum natural salt made up of all 84 minerals and trace elements. Your body recognizes these natural elements as an identical match to its own.
Salt is essential for life -- you cannot live without it. However, most people simply don't realize that there are enormous differences between the standard, refined table and cooking salt most of you are accustomed to using and natural health-promoting salt. Himalayan Crystal Salt is salt in its native form, with all its vibrational energy intact and it helps promote a healthy balance in your body. Promoting balanced electrolytes helps to keep your body in homeostasis -- the balance of chemicals that is conducive to the body's function.
Himalayan crystal salt is far superior to traditional iodized salt. Himalayan salt is millions of years old and pure, untouched by many of the toxins and pollutants that pervade other forms of ocean salt. Known in the Himalayas as “white gold,” Himalayan Crystal Salt contains the same 84 natural minerals and elements found in the human body. This form of salt has also been maturing over the past 250 million years under intense tectonic pressure, creating an environment of zero exposure to toxins and impurities.
Himalayan salt is an alternative to table salt. The larger crystals of the rock salt are best added to soups, stews or marinades, where they are easily dissolved. When using the large blocks for cooking, the salt slabs will impart a slight salinity to the food. Using in Brine Therapy. Because of its mineral content, Himalayan salt can also be used in brine therapy, where it can help regulate your blood circulation and pressure, as well as treat skin diseases and help restore your acid-base balance.
Red rock salt from Pakistan. Himalayan salt is rock salt or halite from a mine in the Punjab region of Pakistan, which rises from the Indo-Gangetic Plain. It is mined in the Khewra Salt Mine, located in Khewra, Jhelum District, Punjab region, Pakistan. The foothills of the Salt Range are located. from the Himalayas,