Kaden /ka-den/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Kaden is companion. Also possibly refers to a swamp in Old German, or to an Old English word meaning round. Mainly used as a modern name with many variations. Kaden is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#40465 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kaden for boys.
Kaden's origin is Celtic and Arabic, and its use, English. Kaden is a variant form of the English Caden. Kaden is also a variant form of the English and Arabic Kadin. Kaden is popular as a baby boy name. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. At the modest height of its usage in 2006, 0.217% of baby boys were named K
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kaden and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kaden and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Kaden are: The meaning of the name “Kaden” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Kaden is a modern English variant of the name Caden, which is an Anglicized variant of the Gaelic surname Mac Cadain, cadáin which translates to son Of.. Cadan cadán the Meaning of cadan. Cadán is unclear kaden is the name of a community belonging to an Administrative. unit in germany 4 5. The meaning of Kaden is  Son of Cadan . Cadán its origin  Is Modern english variant of The/Gaelic celtic Name . Caden kaden is a form Of caden and is generally pronounced  LIKE kay . den
What does Kaden mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kaden is of American origin. The meaning of Kaden is fighter. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is companion and English origin, where its meaning is little battle. 
Its origin is  Modern English variant of the Gaelic/Celtic name Caden . Kaden is a form of Caden and is generally pronounced like  KAY den . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 151st in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. 4 5. The meaning of Kaden is  Son of Cadan . Cadán its origin  Is Modern english variant of The/Gaelic celtic Name . Caden kaden is a form Of caden and is generally pronounced  LIKE kay . den
Kaden is a modern English variant of the name Caden, which is an Anglicized variant of the Gaelic surname Mac Cadain, cadáin which translates to son Of.. Cadan cadán the Meaning of cadan. cadán is unclear 4 5. The meaning of Kaden is  Son of Cadan . Cadán its origin  Is Modern english variant of The/Gaelic celtic Name . Caden kaden is a form Of caden and is generally pronounced  LIKE kay . den
Arabic Meaning: The name Kaden is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Kaden is: Companion. American Meaning: The name Kaden is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaden is: Companion. 
Kaden is another American spelling variation of the first name Caden which was derived from a Gaelic surname, Mac Cadain (cadáin meaning son Of). cadain cadáin Kaden is another American spelling variation of the first name Caden which was derived from a Gaelic surname, Mac Cadain (cadáin meaning son Of). Cadain Cadáin the “gaelic” word cadain ‘cadáin’ possibly means battler but the etymology is. up for debate