Fiber or fibre (from the Latin fibra) is a natural or synthetic string used as a component of composite materials, or, when matted into sheets, used to make products such as paper, papyrus, or felt. Fibers are often used in the manufacture of other materials. 1 Vegetable fibers are generally based on arrangements of cellulose, often with lignin: examples include cotton, hemp, jute, flax, ramie, sisal, bagasse, and banana. 2  Plant fibers are employed in the manufacture of paper and textile (cloth), and dietary fiber is an important component of human nutrition.
Cotton is a soft, fluffy staple fiber that grows in a boll, or protective case, around the seeds of cotton plants of the genus Gossypium in the family of Malvaceae. The fiber is almost pure cellulose. Under natural conditions, the cotton bolls will tend to increase the dispersal of the seeds. Shiny cotton is a processed version of the fiber that can be made into cloth resembling satin for shirts and suits. However, it is hydrophobic (does not absorb water easily), which makes it unfit for use in bath and dish towels (although examples of these made from shiny cotton are seen).
Cotton. Cotton is a soft fiber that grows around the seeds of the cotton plant. Cool, soft and comfortable, cotton is presently the world's most used fiber. Every part of the cotton plant is useful and we see its application in industries such as apparel, home furnishings, medical and surgical, automobile, etc. 
Cotton is a soft fibre that grows around the seeds of the cotton plant. Cotton fibre grows in the seed pod or boll of the cotton plant. Each fibre is a single elongated cell that is flat twisted and ribbon like with a wide inner hollow (lumen). 1  90% cellulose, 6% moisture and the remainder fats and impurities. The fiber most often is spun into yarn or thread and used to make a soft, breathable textile, which is the most widely used natural-fiber cloth in clothing today. The English name derives from the Arabic (al) qutn قُطْن, which began to be used circa 1400. Each cotton fiber is composed of concentric layers.
Cotton is a soft staple fibre that grown in a form known as a boll around the seeds of the cotton plant, a shrub native to tropical and subtropical regions. The fiber most often is spun into yarn or thread and used to make a soft, breathable textile, which is the most widely used natural-fiber cloth in clothing today. The English name derives from the Arabic (al) qutn قُطْن, which began to be used circa 1400. Each cotton fiber is composed of concentric layers.
Cotton grows from a plant naturally, synthetics are manufactured fibers. Cotton absorbs moisture whereas synthetic fibres generally do not. Cotton is natural and can be eaten … by insects whereas synthetic fibres can not, they are around in land fill for hundreds of years. The source of the cotton fibre is the cotton plant which bears a seed pod which contains the cotton seed and the cotton fibre. This is a very ingenious packaging that nature h … as devised for the cotton seed. The seed is first wrapped in cotton fibre and then it is covered in a harder outer pod cover
Cotton is a plant that produces fibers, which are used to make clothes and other products, like towels, carpets or sheets. Clothes made out of cotton are especially light and comfortable. You can make oil or margarine out of the seeds of the cotton plant. The leaves and stalks of the cotton plant are plowed into the ground to make the soil better. Other parts of the plant are fed to animals.
What Cotton is Used For. Every part of the cotton plant can be used. The long cotton fibers are used to make cloth, the short fibers can be used in the paper industry. You can make oil or margarine out of the seeds of the cotton plant. The leaves and stalks of the cotton plant are plowed into the ground to make the soil better. Other parts of the plant are fed to animals.