We found strong evidence for an increased risk for lung cancer in white uranium miners. We expected about 64 deaths, but found 371. This means we found about 6 times more lung cancer deaths than expected. There was an exposure-response relationship with exposure to radon daughters in the mines. Uranium Miners were exposed to mining dust, thought to cause lung disease. NIOSH made the study to find if uranium miners have an increased risk for lung cancer and other lung disease when compared to the U.S. general public.
1 Lung Cancer-If the risk to uranium miners was the same as the risk to the general public, we would have expected 64 deaths from lung cancer. 2  Instead we found 371. 3  This was nearly 6 times more deaths than expected. 4  The longer a white miner was exposed to radon gas, the greater the risk of lung cancer. Uranium Miners were exposed to mining dust, thought to cause lung disease. NIOSH made the study to find if uranium miners have an increased risk for lung cancer and other lung disease when compared to the U.S. general public.
Even though former uranium miners have an elevated risk for certain diseases, that does not mean that you will get one. Also, there are steps you can take right now that will help prevent these diseases. Smoking is terrible for the lungs and causes lung cancer, especially in people exposed to radon gas. Uranium Miners were exposed to mining dust, thought to cause lung disease. NIOSH made the study to find if uranium miners have an increased risk for lung cancer and other lung disease when compared to the U.S. general public.
To further characterize the long-term consequences of uranium mining in this high-risk population, we examined lung cancer incidence among Navajo men residing in New Mexico and Arizona from 1969 to 1993 and conducted a population-based case-control study to estimate the risk of lung cancer for Navajo uranium miners. Sixty-three (67%) of the 94-incident lung cancers among Navajo men occurred in former uranium miners. The relative risk for a history of mining was 28.6 (95% confidence interval, 13.2-61.7).
Uranium Miners were exposed to radon gas, a radioactive material thought to cause lung cancer. Uranium Miners were exposed to mining dust, thought to cause lung disease. NIOSH made the study to find if uranium miners have an increased risk for lung cancer and other lung disease when compared to the U.S. general public.
Of course, what he clearly means is that the risk [ from uranium mining ] is no greater than adding the occupational risk of a safer industry on top of the occupational risk of an industry [ mining ] which does not have a high standard of safety. 1 Radon daughter radiation is a health hazard to workers in advanced stages of exploration, such as in tunnels and shafts, where very high levels of 1.6 working levels (WL) have been recorded in low grade deposits (1600 times normal background levels).
The results of this analysis demonstrated a slightly increased risk of lung cancer for individuals with elevated exposure to household radon. This increased risk was consistent with the estimated level of risk based on studies of underground miners. However, people who inhale high levels of radon are at an increased risk of developing lung cancer. Radon can enter homes through cracks in floors, walls, or foundations, and collect indoors. It can also be released from building materials, or from water obtained from wells that contain radon.
High Risk – Low Return: The case against uranium mining in Queensland The uranium industry's rhetoric holds that 'modern' mining practices ensure environmental protection. That rhetoric is inconsistent with practices at all of Australia's operating uranium mines. High Risk – Low Return: The case against uranium mining in Queensland It is our considered view that the uranium mining sector fails key sustainability, safety and social benefit tests and should not be permitted or advanced.
High Risk – Low Return: The case against uranium mining in Queensland In October 2012 the LNP government broke its clear commitment not to allow uranium mining in Queensland. This commitment was the position of the LNP at the March 2012 state election and was reaffirmed after they took office. High Risk – Low Return: The case against uranium mining in Queensland It is our considered view that the uranium mining sector fails key sustainability, safety and social benefit tests and should not be permitted or advanced.
High Risk – Low Return: The case against uranium mining in Queensland These broader industry constraints are exacerbated in Queensland as most of the state's known uranium deposits are relatively low-grade and technically challenging. High Risk – Low Return: The case against uranium mining in Queensland It is our considered view that the uranium mining sector fails key sustainability, safety and social benefit tests and should not be permitted or advanced.