Introduction to Wallaby. The Wallaby is very similar to a Kangaroo but they are distinct enough in various features and DNA. They aren’t a miniature Kangaroo as some people have been calling them. They are able to jump very long distances and they have a long tail that helps them to balance. The Wallaby is light brown, black, gray, and white in color. The front of the body is white in color and they have very large feet. They have sharp claws on their feet too. They have darker colors on the tips of the ears, around the eyes, and the limbs. They have a pouch where they carry their offspring.
The reason it is called a brush-tailed wallaby is because its tail seems to have a brush at the end.The Swamp Wallaby is one of the darker wallabies. It has dark coloured extremities and a red-brown coloured belly.Many of the Rock wallaby species are lighter, with yellowish-brown to tan colouring. In WikiAnswers, I am constantly On the wallaby. Passionate about all things Australian, I roam all over WikiAnswers, answering questions that have the remotest connection to Australiana ... and some that don't ... as my interests are far and wide.
Some types of wallabies are endangered, others are not. The swamp wallaby, for example, which is the largest of the wallaby species, is classified as common. It is adaptable … to a variety of habitats and can readily be seen in farmlands, the bush, on the fringes of settlements and in reserves within cities. Wallabies are native to Australia and are grouped/classified according to the habitat in which they live. Thus, there are swamp wallabies, brush wallabies, and rock wallabies. All wallabies are herbivores.
The largest species of wallaby is the red-necked wallaby, which can grow to a height of 1 metre for males and 80 cm for females. There are much smaller varieties as well. Wallabies are native to Australia and are grouped/classified according to the habitat in which they live. Thus, there are swamp wallabies, brush wallabies, and rock wallabies. All wallabies are herbivores.
Enemies of the wallaby include birds of prey such as the wedgetail eagle, which can often be observed swooping down on colonies of various kinds of rock wallabies when they are exposed on the bare rock surfaces. In WikiAnswers, I am constantly On the wallaby. Passionate about all things Australian, I roam all over WikiAnswers, answering questions that have the remotest connection to Australiana ... and some that don't ... as my interests are far and wide.
Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Wallabies are members of the kangaroo clan found primarily in Australia and on nearby islands. There are many wallaby species, grouped roughly by habitat: shrub wallabies, brush wallabies, and rock wallabies. Hare wallabies are named for their size and their hare-like behavior. 
The term wallaby is an informal designation generally used for any macropod that is smaller than a kangaroo or wallaroo that has not been designated otherwise. There are 11 species of brush wallabies (g. Macropus, s.g. Protemnodon). Their head and body length is 45 to 105 cm and the tail is 33 to 75 cm long. The name wallaby comes from Dharug 'walabi' or 'waliba'. Young wallabies are known as  joeys , like many other marsupials. Adult male wallabies are referred to as bucks, boomers, or jacks. An adult female wallaby is known as a doe, flyer, or jill.
The wallaby is most closely related to Australia's largest marsupial, the kangaroo. The wallaby is generally smaller than a kangaroo although some wallaby individuals have been known to reach 6ft tall. There are roughly 30 different species of wallaby found in a variety of habitats throughout the Australian continent. The habitats of wallaby are so diverse that wallaby species are often named after their habitat. This includes the rock wallaby, the brush wallaby and the shrub wallaby. Other wallaby species such as the hare wallaby, are named after their size and appearance. The wallaby has strong and powerful back legs which the wallaby hops on in order to move about
General Description. The Agile Wallaby is closely related to kangaroos and wallaroos, who are also in the Marsupialia infraclass. Wallabies have long, flat feet and long tails-usually one third of their body height-which provide balance. No Macropodidae weigh over 25 kilograms. 
Wallabies are smaller members of the kangaroo family. Any member of the kangaroo family, or macropods, is related to the wallaby, and this includes Red Kangaroos, Grey Kangaro … os, Pademelons, Tree Kangaroos, Quokkas and Euros (Wallaroos), to name a few. Wallabies are native to Australia and are grouped/classified according to the habitat in which they live. Thus, there are swamp wallabies, brush wallabies, and rock wallabies. All wallabies are herbivores.