There are more than 180 species of mushrooms which contain the psychedelic chemicals psilocybin or psilocin. They have a long history of use in Mexico and are currently one of the most popular and commonly available natural psychedelics. GENERAL INFORMATION #. 
Mycena cyanorrhiza stains blue and contains the hallucinogen psilocybin and Mycena pura contains the mycotoxin muscarine. Over 33 species are known to be bioluminescent, creating a glow known as foxfire. Mycena is a large genus of small saprotrophic mushrooms that are rarely more than a few centimeters in width. They are characterized by a white spore print, a small conical or bell-shaped cap, and a thin fragile stem. Most are gray or brown, but a few species have brighter colors
There are a number of other Mycena species that are relatively easy to identify. Mycena luteopallens, A, is a paler, smaller (2-3 mm cap) orange mushroom that grows on the hulls of hickory nuts, walnuts and butternuts-- although you might have to dig down in the soil to find the substrate. In a genus not known for easy identification of its species, this is probably the easiest of all the Mycenas. On the top of the fruiting bodies you can see the characteristic orange color, with growth in caespitose clusters (meaning that many mushrooms emanate from a single point on the log).
Mushrooms, a kind of fungus, come in many varieties. From those on a pizza to those in spaghetti sauce, mushrooms enhance our cuisine and flavor our lives. But not all mushrooms are so harmless. Some contain toxic and/or hallucinogenic compounds. Hallucinogens are substances that alter or produce false perceptions of sight, sound, taste, smell or touch. Some toxic substances in mushrooms can cause severe illness and even death. Most hallucinogenic substances, including synthetic ones such as LSD, are illegal. These deadly mushrooms contain toxins that destroy cells in the liver and kidneys. Five to 24 hours after eating one of these toxic mushrooms people may become sick with nausea and stomach problems. Later, severe liver and kidney damage may occur.
These mushrooms contain one or more of the hallucinogenic chemicals muscimol, psilocin, or psilocybin, the latter breaks down into psilocin when exposed to heat and air. When ingested they produce a 'trip' which is a hallucinogenic experience, during which the user may have a religious or life changing experience. Hallucinogenic mushrooms contain psilcybin, psilocin, and baeocystin. Shrooms are incredible and nearly non-toxic too. By incredible I mean it can be the best experience of your life or the worst experience of your life depending on the mood at the time, setting, and who you are with.
Note the blue color of the base of the stem and of the very young caps. This species is reported to actually contain the hallucinogen psilocybin, although it's not at all related to Psilocybe. A very common species, Mycena haematopus, the blood-foot mushroom, exudes a blood-colored latex when the stipe is cut. In a genus not known for easy identification of its species, this is probably the easiest of all the Mycenas. On the top of the fruiting bodies you can see the characteristic orange color, with growth in caespitose clusters (meaning that many mushrooms emanate from a single point on the log).
Biological groups that contain psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe, Conocybe, Copelandia; Galerina, Gerronema, Gymnolpilus; Hypholoma, Inocybe, Mycena; Panaeolus, Pluteus, Psilcybe, and Weraroa. As is common with many psychedelic substances, the effects of psychedelic mushrooms are subjective and can vary considerably among individual users. The mind-altering effects of psilocybin mushrooms typically last anywhere from three to eight hours, depending on dosage, preparation method, and personal metabolism.
Mycena leaiana, the orange Mycena. Please click TomVolkFungi.net for the rest of Tom Volk's pages on fungi This month's fungus, Mycena leaiana, is a fun mushroom to find in the woods. It's bright orange, with bright orange marginate gills (more on that later), and thus often stands out from a long distance. In a genus not known for easy identification of its species, this is probably the easiest of all the Mycenas. On the top of the fruiting bodies you can see the characteristic orange color, with growth in caespitose clusters (meaning that many mushrooms emanate from a single point on the log).