Answers. Best Answer: Put the lime down to sweeten the dirt about one to two week make sure you work it in the dirt. Then in two weeks you plant you grass seed and fertilize. Make sure you do this right before it rains. Source(s): This is how my grandmother and daddy taught me to get the yard or garden ready in the spring.
1 If you lime your lawn before the first frost of the year, the freezing/thawing pattern of winter will help the lime seep into the soil. 2  Don’t apply lime when your soil is very wet and avoid windy days, especially if your lime is in powder form. 3  Use a spreader to distribute the lime evenly across your lawn. The optimum time for liming is during the fall, because the cold and rainy weather can help push the lime into the soil. Plus, homeowners often aerate their lawns in the fall. If possible, apply lime to your lawn just after you aerate it. The aerated soil will help the lime sink deeply into the ground
1 Use a spreader to distribute the lime evenly across your lawn. 2  If your lime is in pellet-form, feel free to use your hands instead. 3  Lime does not move horizontally, so you need to be careful with your application. 4  Consider spreading half the lime in one direction and the other half in the opposite direction. 5  Be patient. The optimum time for liming is during the fall, because the cold and rainy weather can help push the lime into the soil. Plus, homeowners often aerate their lawns in the fall. If possible, apply lime to your lawn just after you aerate it. The aerated soil will help the lime sink deeply into the ground
Lime helps acidic soils grow better lawns. Whether you are sowing seed for a new lawn or seeding an existing lawn, the application of lime is recommended in many areas of the U.S. Many sources suggest liming your lawn before seeding to better prepare the soil for healthy turf-grass growth. Sow lawn grass seed in the fall, especially when over-seeding an existing lawn. Autumnal climate, moisture and soil conditions are most favorable for establishing new growth that will mature during the following warm season. You can apply lime at the same time. Alternately, follow a one-year plant.
Test your soil's pH level to determine if lime is needed. A pH test measures the soil's alkalinity or acidity. When the pH is above 7.0, the soil is said to be alkaline; when below 7.0, it is acidic. A pH level of 6 to 7 is ideal for most grasses. If your soil is too acidic, use a lime application. 1  Bring a soil sample to a government or independent soil testing laboratory for the most complete testing results. 2  You can use a self-test kit or pH probe, sold at garden centers, to test your soil
Fertilizing After Liming. Sometimes, it makes sense to apply lime before fertilizing your lawn, instead of the other way around. Because grass can't take in fertilizer's nutrients when the soil pH levels are too low, you shouldn't fertilize first if a soil test registers a low pH. After emptying the spreader, fill it with lime and apply that to your lawn as well. When your pH levels regularly stay between 6.0 and 7.0, you don't need to apply lime with every fertilizer treatment. Instead, add it once every two years.
Simply apply, and in a couple of weeks, your soil is helping your lawn or garden to grow to its fullest potential. Rain, shine, or snow, lime will get to work and do its job no matter the weather. You can put down lime in the snow, or put it down with a fertilizer application – any time is a good time to lime. 
1 Don’t apply lime when your soil is very wet and avoid windy days, especially if your lime is in powder form. 2  Use a spreader to distribute the lime evenly across your lawn. 3  If your lime is in pellet-form, feel free to use your hands instead. The optimum time for liming is during the fall, because the cold and rainy weather can help push the lime into the soil. Plus, homeowners often aerate their lawns in the fall. If possible, apply lime to your lawn just after you aerate it. The aerated soil will help the lime sink deeply into the groun
When your lawn doesn't need a big influx of lime to raise the pH, you don't have to wait after applying fertilizer before you apply the lime as part of your regular lawn maintenance. If you're not adding more than 50 pounds per 1,000 square feet, you can apply both on the same day -- just not at the same time. After emptying the spreader, fill it with lime and apply that to your lawn as well. When your pH levels regularly stay between 6.0 and 7.0, you don't need to apply lime with every fertilizer treatment. Instead, add it once every two years.