Mirror neurons are widely regarded as an important key to social cognition. Despite such wide agreement, there is very little consensus on how or why they are important. The goal of this paper is to clearly explicate the exact role mirror neurons play in social cognition. Monkeys’ mirror neurons are sensitive to goal-directed behavior, and for monkeys miming is not a goal-directed behavior. (It is for humans, because we recognize miming as a kind of communication.) In the miming case, there is no material object to grasp, play with, or eat.
The function of the mirror system is a subject of much speculation. Many researchers in cognitive neuroscience and cognitive psychology consider that this system provides the physiological mechanism for the perception/action coupling (see the common coding theory). Mirror neurons are believed to mediate the understanding of other animals' behaviour. For example, a mirror neuron which fires when the monkey rips a piece of paper would also fire when the monkey sees a person rip paper, or hears paper ripping (without visual cues).
In fact, the very existence of mirror neurons in the human brain is still disputed by some. That’s where we’re at with the study of these cells. We’re still trying to find out whether they exist in humans, where they are, and what exactly it is they do. In 2000, Vilayanur Ramachandran, the charismatic neuroscientist, made a bold prediction: “mirror neurons will do for psychology what DNA did for biology.” He's at the forefront of a frenzy of excitement that has followed these cells ever since their discovery.
Video. A mirror neuron is a neuron which fires both when an animal performs an action and when the animal observes the same action performed by another (especially conspecific) animal. Thus, the neuron mirrors the behavior of another animal, as though the observer were himself performing the action. In particular, there has been much speculation about the evolution of mirror neurons, and their relationship to language evolution. While mirror neurons are present in macaque monkeys, these monkeys do not imitate each other's behaviour, so it seems unlikely that mirror neurons evolved for imitation learning.
The mind's mirror. A new type of neuron--called a mirror neuron--could help explain how we learn through mimicry and why we empathize with others. The discovery of mirror neurons owes as much to serendipity as to skill. In the 1980s, Rizzolatti and his colleagues had found that some neurons in an area of macaque monkeys' premotor cortex called F5 fired when the monkeys did things like reach for or bite a peanut.
It has also been proposed that problems with the mirror neuron system may underlie cognitive disorders, particularly autism. However the connection between mirror neuron dysfunction and autism is tentative and it remains to be seen how mirror neurons may be related to many of the important characteristics of autism. Mirror neurons are believed to mediate the understanding of other animals' behaviour. For example, a mirror neuron which fires when the monkey rips a piece of paper would also fire when the monkey sees a person rip paper, or hears paper ripping (without visual cues).
A mirror neuron is a neuron that fires both when an animal acts and when the animal observes the same action performed by another. Thus, the neuron mirrors the behavior of the other, as though the observer were itself acting. Such neurons have been directly observed in primate species. Mirror neurons are believed to mediate the understanding of other animals' behaviour. For example, a mirror neuron which fires when the monkey rips a piece of paper would also fire when the monkey sees a person rip paper, or hears paper ripping (without visual cues).
Mirror neurons: a definition. Description: Professor Christian Keysers explains that mirror neurons in the premotor cortex respond when we perform an action and also when we see someone else perform that action. This is similar to empathy. Transcript: Mirror neurons are a set of neurons that we discovered in the premotor cortex of the monkey. 
1. Mirror Neurons Mirror neurons are widely regarded as an important key to social cognition. Despite wide agreement that mirror neurons are important, there is very little consensus on how or why they are important. The goal of this paper is to clearly explicate the exact role mirror neurons play in social cognition. Monkeys’ mirror neurons are sensitive to goal-directed behavior, and for monkeys miming is not a goal-directed behavior. (It is for humans, because we recognize miming as a kind of communication.) In the miming case, there is no material object to grasp, play with, or eat.
Mirror neurons are a type of brain cell that fires when you do an action, and also when you simply watch someone else doing the same action. 