3. Cocculus Indicus. “Cocculus Indicus” is a commonly prescribed homeopathic remedy for vertigo. It is best used when one’s nausea and dizziness are exacerbated by riding in a moving car or train. It is the premier herb for motion sickness caused by motion. Digestive troubles may accompany symptoms. 
Using Homeopathy for Vertigo. Vertigo, a symptom of various disorders, is the sensation of spinning-either the person himself (subjective vertigo) or his surroundings (objective vertigo). The term is sometimes misapplied to dizziness
A variety of homeopathic remedies are available for the treatment of dizziness. Each remedy is selected by an experienced homeopath after a thorough intake with the patient to determine the most appropriate choice. Causes of Dizziness. The inner ear, called the vestibular system, contains fluid that helps refine the information the brain receives from the eyes and the body regarding balance. When the volume or pressure of the fluid in one inner ear changes, the information about balance is altered.
Homeopathic treatment appears particularly beneficial for vertigo, perhaps because vertigo is not a disease, but a symptom of an underlying issue. In classical homeopathy, there are many possible treatments for dizziness, to be selected according to the individual symptoms of the patient. Causes of Dizziness. The inner ear, called the vestibular system, contains fluid that helps refine the information the brain receives from the eyes and the body regarding balance. When the volume or pressure of the fluid in one inner ear changes, the information about balance is altered.
Homeopathy for Dizziness. To maintain balance, the human brain must synchronize information coming from the eyes, the inner ear, and the body's senses. If any part of this data flow is interrupted, the brain may not be able to compensate and maintain balance, resulting in dizziness. Causes of Dizziness. The inner ear, called the vestibular system, contains fluid that helps refine the information the brain receives from the eyes and the body regarding balance. When the volume or pressure of the fluid in one inner ear changes, the information about balance is altered.
The spinning sensation and dizziness you get from vertigo can limit your activities and make you feel sick. Depending on the cause, though, some simple maneuvers you can do at home might bring relief. The most common type is BPPV (benign paroxysmal positional vertigo), and it's also the easiest to treat. BPPV happens when small crystals of calcium get loose in your inner ear. You may feel it when you're getting in or out of bed, or tilting your head up. If you have vertigo, you'll need to know what type you have and which ear has the problem. If you have BPPV, certain actions can move the calcium crystals that cause the problem out of your ear canal. That should bring relief. Your doctor or a therapist can show you how to do these moves.
Silicea is the best Homeopathic medicine for Vertigo when ear infection is the cause. The Vertigo is accompanied by an offensive pus-like discharge from the ear. Excessive perspiration on the head may also be present in persons requiring Homeopathic remedy Silicea for Vertigo. Vertigo accompanied by nausea during travelling can be very effectively treated with this Homeopathic medicine. You can use Homeopathic medicine Cocculus Indicus even if you have Vertigo with nausea resulting from Cervical Spondylosis. This Homeopathic medicine is of great help in the treatment of such cases.
Homeopathic Remedies for vertigo for positional vertigo, postural vertigo with migraine or nausea, meniere’s disease. Pages: 1 2. Vertigo is a symptom, not a disease. The term vertigo refers to the sensation of spinning or whirling that occurs as a result of a disturbance in balance (equilibrium). It also may be used to describe feelings of dizziness, lightheadedness, faintness, and unsteadiness. Vertigo usually occurs as a result of a disorder in the vestibular system (i.e., structures of the inner ear, the vestibular nerve, brainstem, and cerebellum). The vestibular system is responsible for integrating sensory stimuli and movement and for keeping objects in visual focus as the body moves.