Definition: A retainer is a fee paid to an attorney or other professional in advance, for services. Often, retainers are paid monthly, based on an estimate of the amount of work to be done for the client each month. A retainer might work like this: You would pay your attorney $500 a month for legal services during that month. If you have a question or need a matter handled, it comes off the retainer amount.
Depends on the contract YOU signed with the old attorney. Most attorneys have a retainer clause in their contracts that calls for a fee of some kind to be paid to them even … if, as you say, they did not do any work for you. But, if you didn't sign anything, the only thing he will do is send you bills stating that issue for you to pay and you don't have to pay. 
Once the retainer fee is used up, the attorney may bill the client in one of several ways. The attorney may charge her usual hourly fee, or she may enter into a contingency fee agreement with the client. The written agreement establishes the amount of the retainer fee, what the attorney must do with the retainer when she receives it, and what sorts of things the lawyer may use the retainer to purchase.
You may have to pay a retainer fee multiple times. How many times you have to pay this lump-sum fee to the lawyer will depend on many factors, including how much work must be done on your file, and how complex that work is. Usually a lawyer will want enough money in the trust account to cover the next bill. The amount that a lawyer charges for a retainer fee varies from lawyer to lawyer, and will also vary depending on the type of legal problem that you are having. For example, if the lawyer thinks that a client’s matter can be dealt with quickly and easily, the lawyer may charge less of a retainer fee.
Attorneys bill for their work in various ways. 1  An attorney might charge by the hour. 2  Attorneys may also charge a flat fee for a specific assignment. 3  An attorney might also agree to work on contingency, meaning you don't pay unless the result of the work (usually a case in litigation) is settled favorably for the client. Often, retainers are paid monthly, based on an estimate of the amount of work to be done for the client each month. A retainer might work like this: You would pay your attorney $500 a month for legal services during that month. If you have a question or need a matter handled, it comes off the retainer amount.
Retainer fees are also used when a client needs to hire an attorney for a long-term relationship. For instance, many businesses have an attorney “on retainer” in case legal issues come up in the course of the business’s everyday work. The written agreement establishes the amount of the retainer fee, what the attorney must do with the retainer when she receives it, and what sorts of things the lawyer may use the retainer to purchase.
In rural areas and small towns, lawyers tend to charge less, and fees in the range of $100 to $200 an hour for an experienced attorney are probably the norm. In major metropolitan areas, the norm is probably closer to $200 to $400 an hour. Lawyers with expertise in specialized areas may charge much more. 
Read more. A lawyer retainer fee is usually based on a written agreement, signed by both the client and the attorney. The written agreement establishes the amount of the retainer fee, what the attorney must do with the retainer when she receives it, and what sorts of things the lawyer may use the retainer to purchase.
A retainer agreement is a work for hire contract. It falls between a one-time contract and full-time employment. Its distinguishing feature is that the employer pays in advance for work to be specified later. Additional contracts regarding the performance of this work may also apply. It is common for a person seeking the services of a lawyer (attorney) to pay a retainer (retainer fee) to the lawyer, to see a case through to its conclusion. A retainer can be a single advance payment or a recurring (e.g. monthly) payment.
A retainer fee is an advance payment that a client makes to his or her lawyer before the lawyer begins working on the case. It is similar to a down payment and allows the lawyer to draw funds for various fees as the case proceeds. A client may choose to pay using a retainer fee in order to demonstrate that they are serious about their case and wish to retain the lawyer’s services. Retainer fees help to establish a harmonious attorney-client relationship.