The Amazon basin is the largest drainage basin in the world, about 7,050,000 square kilometres (2,720,000 sq mi), and accounts for approximately one-fifth of the world's total river flow. The river systems and flood plains in Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela, whose waters drain into the Solimoes solimões and its, tributaries are called The Upper. Amazon The Amazon river proper runs mostly Through brazil And. peru
In its upper stretches, above its confluence with the Rio Negro, the Amazon is called Solimoes solimões In. Brazil but In, Peru colombia And, ecuador as well as the rest of The-spanish speaking, world the river is generally called The amazon downstream beginning at the confluence of The maranon Marañón and ucayali Rivers. in peru The river systems and flood plains in Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela, whose waters drain into the Solimoes solimões and its, tributaries are called The Upper. Amazon The Amazon river proper runs mostly Through brazil And. peru
Tourists go to the river for sightseeing and  vacations. The Amazon River is named the Transportation Corridor of  the world and is used as a major trade route through many countries  in South America. Local people use it for drinking, bathing,  swimming and laundry. 1 The History and Geography of the Amazon River The Amazon River is the longest river in the world, running across the top South America (specifically through Brazil, Colombia, and Peru) and nearly connects one shore of th….
The Amazon River is used for fishing, native goods/people  transportation, and a water source. Also, it attracts tourists and  rain forest animals that may be hunted on the … rivers edge (well,  not the tourists). Tourists go to the river for sightseeing and  vacations. The Amazon river is the largest river in the Amazon and the second  largest river in the world. It runs through Peru, Brazil and  Columbia.
The Amazon River is used for many different things. These include  fishing, drinking source, and even a bathing hole for some of the  natives. In addition, the Amazon River … is called a transportation  corridor, which basically means that goods and people can travel  easily along it. Also the Amazon river is based as a diluted and  undiluted water carrier. Which means we can see clean water, salty  water and muddy water. The Amazon river is the largest river in the Amazon and the second  largest river in the world. It runs through Peru, Brazil and  Columbia.
These include  fishing, drinking source, and even a bathing hole for some of the  natives. In addition, the Amazon River … is called a transportation  corridor, which basically means that goods and people can travel  easily along it. Also the Amazon river is based as a diluted and  undiluted water carrier. Which means we can see clean water, salty  water and muddy water. 1 The History and Geography of the Amazon River The Amazon River is the longest river in the world, running across the top South America (specifically through Brazil, Colombia, and Peru) and nearly connects one shore of th….
The total volume of water discharging from the Amazon river in a year is about 6,591 cubic kilometers. The largest city along the Amazon River is Manaus. Located in Brazil in the western state of Amazonas, it is home to over 1.7 million people. Its population is larger than that of Belem, belém the major city and port at the mouth of the river at The Atlantic. ocean The river systems and flood plains in Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela, whose waters drain into the Solimoes solimões and its, tributaries are called The Upper. Amazon The Amazon river proper runs mostly Through brazil And. peru
The Amazon River is used for fishing, native goods/people  transportation, and a water source. Also, it attracts tourists and  rain forest animals that may be hunted on the … rivers edge (well,  not the tourists). 1 The History and Geography of the Amazon River The Amazon River is the longest river in the world, running across the top South America (specifically through Brazil, Colombia, and Peru) and nearly connects one shore of th….
Check out these fun Amazon River facts for kids. Learn about where the Amazon River is located, how long it is, the wildlife that it supports and more. Enjoy our range of interesting facts about the Amazon River. The Amazon River is located in South America. It runs through Guyana, Ecuador, Venezuela, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. The length of the Amazon River is approximately 6400 kilometres (4000 miles). 