Hematocrit (Hct) Levels. This is the ratio of the volume of red cells to the volume of whole blood. Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women. This is usually measured by spinning down a sample of blood in a test tube, which causes the red blood cells to pack at the bottom of the tube
The blood sample for a hematocrit blood test is drawn from a vein, usually in the arm, and collected into a vacuum tube. An alternative method of collection is a finger-stick, or heel-stick in newborns. This method requires that less blood and the sample is collected in a tiny tube called a pipette. Anemia is the most common cause of a low hematocrit result. Anemia occurs when the body has a below normal amount of red blood cells. This causes a hematocrit levels fall below normal. Malnutrition or nutritional deficiencies of certain vitamins or minerals can lead to anemia and produce low HCT blood test results.
An HCT blood test is performed as part of a CBC, or complete blood count. Learn why the doctor orders this test and how the results help in diagnosing medical conditions. slide 1 of 6. The HCT, which stands for hematocrit, blood test measures the amount of red blood cells in a blood sample. This test is also referred to as a crit or a PCV, which means packed cell volume. The HCT blood test is usually done as part of a CBC, or complete blood count, blood test. Anemia is the most common cause of a low hematocrit result. Anemia occurs when the body has a below normal amount of red blood cells. This causes a hematocrit levels fall below normal. Malnutrition or nutritional deficiencies of certain vitamins or minerals can lead to anemia and produce low HCT blood test results.
A hematocrit blood test or an HCT blood test is a test where the total volume of red blood cells is checked vis-a-vis the volume of blood that has been drawn. The HCT blood test is therefore used to determine how much of the blood drawn is made up of red blood cells. The number of red blood cells in the blood is one such factor. The other factor is the size of each red blood cell. Also read more on MCH blood test. The term anemia literally means a lack of blood. This term is used to refer to patients who report with HCT blood test low results.
Red blood cells (RBCs) typically make up roughly 37% to 49% of the volume of blood. Since a hematocrit is often performed as part of a complete blood count (CBC) , results from other components, such as RBC count, hemoglobin, reticulocyte count, and/or red blood cell indices, are taken into consideration. Age, sex, and race are other factors to be considered.
Hematocrit is a blood test that measures the percentage of the volume of whole blood that is made up of red blood cells. This measurement depends on the number of red blood cells and the size of red blood cells. The hematocrit is almost always ordered as part of a complete blood count. 
1 The value is given as a percentage of red blood cells in a volume of blood. 2  For example, a hematocrit of 38 means that 38% of the blood's volume is made of red blood cells. 3  Hematocrit and hemoglobin values are the two major tests that show if anemia or polycythemia is present. 4  Hemoglobin (Hgb). 1 This test measures the amount of space (volume) red blood cells take up in the blood. 2  The value is given as a percentage of red blood cells in a volume of blood. 3
A low hematocrit means the percentage of red blood cells is below the lower limits of normal (see above) for that person's age, sex, or specific condition (for example, pregnancy or high-altitude living). Another term for low hematocrit is anemia. Causes of low hematocrit, or anemia, include: 1  Bleeding (ulcers, trauma, colon cancer, internal bleeding). 2  Destruction of red blood cells (sickle cell anemia, enlarged spleen). 3  Decreased production of red blood cells (bone marrow supression, cancer, drugs). 4  Nutritional problems (low iron, B 12, folate and malnutrition).
The hematocrit is the proportion, by volume, of the blood that consists of red blood cells. The hematocrit (hct) is expressed as a percentage. For example, a hematocrit of 25% means that there are 25 milliliters of red blood cells in 100 milliliters of blood. This is the ratio of the volume of red cells to the volume of whole blood. Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women.