Morphea. Morphea (mor-FEE-uh) is a rare skin condition that causes painless, discolored patches on your skin. Typically, the skin changes appear on the abdomen, chest or back. But they might also appear on your face, arms or legs. Morphea tends to affect only the outermost layers of your skin
See also: List of cutaneous conditions. A cutaneous condition is any medical condition that affects the integumentary system — the organ system that encloses the body and includes skin, hair, nails, and related muscle and glands. The major function of this system is as a barrier against the external environment. 
Some skin diseases are congenital, meaning that they are caused by genetics. Harlequin ichthyosis, a painful disease which causes the skin to blister, discolor, and scale, is an example of a congenital skin condition. Take the bullous skin disease, for example. I think that this is one of the saddest diseases that anybody can get, because it's a genetic autoimmune disorder. In bullous skin disease, large blisters form on the body as the skin which periodically erupt, and may become infected.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A skin disease is a disease which involves the skin. Specialists in these diseases are known as dermatologists, and diseases of the skin are quite diverse, making plenty of work available in the field of dermatology. Take the bullous skin disease, for example. I think that this is one of the saddest diseases that anybody can get, because it's a genetic autoimmune disorder. In bullous skin disease, large blisters form on the body as the skin which periodically erupt, and may become infected.
Medical conditions and skin problems. Many non-dermatologic disorders affect the condition of the skin. A few disorders that may cause skin signs and symptoms include: 1  Autoimmune disease: A butterfly rash across the face is a tell-tale sign of lupus. 2  Lupus may also cause other rashes and mouth sores. 3  Those with lupus tend to be very sun sensitive. 
A. Eczema is a term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema. Atopic refers to a group of diseases with an often inherited tendency to develop other allergic conditions, such as asthma and hay fever. 
Squamous cell carcinoma begins in the squamous layer of the skin. Melanoma begins in the melanocytes, which are the cells that make melanin, the pigment that gives skin its color. Click to see a larger diagram. Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. The two most common types of skin cancer—basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas—are highly curable, but can be disfiguring and costly. Melanoma, the third most common skin cancer, is more dangerous and causes the most deaths. 
Skin diseases may be caused by genetics. Eczema is common in people with allergies. Acne is a skin disease that prompts many trips to the dermatogist. Although skin cancer can affect anyone, people with a fair complexion and light-colored eyes are the most susceptible. Skin allergies may manifest as hives. A topical cream can be applied to alleviate itchy skin. Take the bullous skin disease, for example. I think that this is one of the saddest diseases that anybody can get, because it's a genetic autoimmune disorder. In bullous skin disease, large blisters form on the body as the skin which periodically erupt, and may become infected.
Approximately two-thirds of people with lupus will develop some type of skin disease, called cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Skin disease in lupus can cause rashes or sores (lesions), most of which will appear on sun-exposed areas such as the face, ears, neck, arms, and legs. 