comprehensive-broad in scope; a comprehensive survey of world affairs. inclusive-including much or everything; and especially including stated limits; an inclusive art form; an inclusive fee; his concept of history is modern and inclusive; from Monday to Friday inclusive. 1. of broad scope or content; including all or much. 2. (Insurance) (of a car insurance policy) providing protection against most risks, including third-party liability, fire, theft, and damage. 3. having the ability to understand. 4. (Education) of, relating to, or being a comprehensive school.
The practice of continuing comprehensive care is the concurrent prevention and management of multiple physical and emotional health problems of a patient over a period of time in relationship to family, life events and environment. (CGA) (1980) (2013 COD). Share this page. 
Comprehensive Coverage: A Definition. When people hear the word comprehensive, they might think all-encompassing— but in car insurance terms, the word has a different meaning. Simply put, comprehensive coverage protects you against damages to your car that are the result of covered perils not related to a collision. Think of a scenario that could cause damage to your car that has nothing to do with striking another vehicle. In many cases, this can include: 1  Theft.
1. Term used for a variety of insurance policies providing broad protection. 2. In car insurance, coverage which pays to repair or replace the policy owner's vehicle and personal property inside of it if it was damaged or lost due to other agents, such as fire, theft, flood, or vandalism. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of comprehensive is covered widely or understood fully. 1  An example of comprehensive is an exam that covers all of the material from the whole school year. 2  An example of comprehensive is the mind of a person who understands all of the components of astrophysics. 1 An example of comprehensive is an exam that covers all of the material from the whole school year. 2  An example of comprehensive is the mind of a person who understands all of the components of astrophysics.
comprehensive coverage. DEFINITION: Comprehensive coverage – also known as major medical health insurance – refers to plans that cover a wide range of health services (i.e., not a limited-benefit plan or supplemental policy). 
comprehensive. adj. 1. of broad scope or content; including all or much. 2. (Insurance) (of a car insurance policy) providing protection against most risks, including third-party liability, fire, theft, and damage. 3. having the ability to understand. 4. (Education) of, relating to, or being a comprehensive school. n