“We must be the great arsenal of democracy.” ‑ President Franklin D. Roosevelt, 1941. ROOSEVELT AND THE NEW DEAL. In 1933 the new president, Franklin D. Roosevelt, brought an air of confidence and optimism that quickly rallied the people to the banner of his program, known as the New Deal. “The only thing we have to fear is fear itself,” the president declared in his inaugural address to the nation. 
In early 1933 nation needed immediate relief, recovery from economic collapse, and reform to avoid future depressions, so relief, recovery and reform became Franklin D. Roosevelt `s goals when he took the helm as president. One recurring theme in the recovery plan was Roosevelt s pledge to help the forgotten man at the bottom of the economic pyramid. Birth of the New Deal The concepts that became the New Deal had been discussed in earlier years but without effect.
Many historians distinguish between a First New Deal (1933–34) and a Second New Deal (1935–38), with the second one more liberal and more controversial. The First New Deal (1933–34) dealt with the pressing banking crises through the Emergency Banking Act and the 1933 Banking Act. By contrast, enemies of the New Deal sometimes called it fascist, but they meant very different things. Communists denounced the New Deal in 1933 and 1934 as fascist, meaning it was under the control of big business.
The New Deal was a series of domestic programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1938, and a few that came later. They included both laws passed by Congress as well as presidential executive orders during the first term (1933–37) of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. By contrast, enemies of the New Deal sometimes called it fascist, but they meant very different things. Communists denounced the New Deal in 1933 and 1934 as fascist, meaning it was under the control of big business.
The so-called First New Deal spanned only the years 1933-1934 and was more pro-business in orientation than its successor period. In fairness, those early years were a time of extreme financial crisis, and attention was given over, for the most part, to alleviating the effects of the nation s economic collapse. 
By 1936 the term liberal typically was used for supporters of the New Deal, and  conservative  for its opponents. From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in his endeavours by a pro-spender majority in Congress (drawn from two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and Left party districts). By contrast, enemies of the New Deal sometimes called it fascist, but they meant very different things. Communists denounced the New Deal in 1933 and 1934 as fascist, meaning it was under the control of big business.
In 1933 the new president, Franklin Roosevelt, brought an air of confidence and optimism that quickly rallied the people to the banner of his program, known as the New Deal. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself, the president declared in his inaugural address to the nation. In a certain sense, it is fair to say that the New Deal merely introduced types of social and economic reform familiar to many Europeans for more than a generation.
The  Second New Deal  in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions, the Works Progress Administration (WPA) relief program (which made the federal government by far the largest single employer in the nation), the Social Security Act, and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers. By contrast, enemies of the New Deal sometimes called it fascist, but they meant very different things. Communists denounced the New Deal in 1933 and 1934 as fascist, meaning it was under the control of big business.
So, in the spring of 1935, Roosevelt launched a second, more aggressive series of federal programs, sometimes called the Second New Deal. In April, he created the Works Progress Administration (WPA) to provide jobs for unemployed people. 
In his first 99 days, he proposed, and Congress swiftly enacted, an ambitious New Deal to deliver relief to the unemployed and those in danger of losing farms and homes, recovery to agriculture and business, and reform, notably through the inception of the vast Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) . One recurring theme in the recovery plan was Roosevelt s pledge to help the forgotten man at the bottom of the economic pyramid. Birth of the New Deal The concepts that became the New Deal had been discussed in earlier years but without effect.