The tenancy contract registration certificate is a document proving that the tenancy contract is authentic. Ejari is an electronic system started by the Land Department at authenticate the tenancy contracts in Dubai. Thanks to the Ejari system, forgery cases are being easily detected and exposed.
Welcome to Ejari Registration. If you need to register a Tenancy Contract with Ejari / RERA, you landed on the right website. Ejari-Registration.ae has been created to facilitate Ejari registrations and cancellations in the Emirate of Dubai. Ejari express contract attestation and delivery is done online in a few hours. The 6-hr Express delivery is guaranteed. All you need is a PC and internet connection. In fact, with Ejari-Registration.ae: 1  you do not need to visit any RERA Office or any authorized typing center; 2  you do not need to attend the RERA training course.
Ejari is an initiative of RERA aimed at regulating the Rental Market of Dubai. It is a novel system that will enable Law No. 26 of 2007 to become effective. It is designed to manage the relationship between concerned parties, namely the landlords and tenants in Dubai. Q 2. The Ejari certificate will be sent to your email normally within 4 hours, and no longer than24 hours, after receiving your application and payment. If any document is missing, is not a clear copy or is incomplete then the registration process may be delayed until we get the complete set of required files.
EJARI. Recently it has become more of a requirement to obtain an attested lease agreement (Ejari) in order to obtain a visa for family members. For a long time this requirement was in the legislation, but it was rarely (if ever) enforced. Family members were able to get their visas without an attested lease being provided. 
You can renew the Ejari Tenancy Contract on Masterkey by just a few clicks. It's so simple! ​. ​. ﻿. 1  Select the Unit whose Contract you wish to Renew and click on Ejari Integration. 2  Clicking Renew, renews the Contract in both Ejari and Masterkey. 1 Select the Unit whose Contract you wish to Renew and click on Ejari Integration. 2  Clicking Renew, renews the Contract in both Ejari and Masterkey. 3  When a Contract is renewed, the Contract Start and End date are updated automatically. 4  You can also Print the Tenancy Contract and Print Reg Certificate
EJARI Services. EJARI Services: EJARI is an innovative system introduced by RERA to facilitate clarity in the Dubai rental sector. It is designed to move the Dubai real estate industry to among the finest governed rental sectors on the earth. 
Ejari is an online registration system initiated by Real Estate Regulatory Agency (RERA) that requires all Dubai rental or lease contracts to be recorded at this portal. The main motive behind this system is to legalize the otherwise unpleasant relationship between landlords and tenants in Dubai. For Ejari registration, a receipt for the payment of the DEWA security deposit must be provided. However, the receipt provided with online payment of the DEWA security deposit is not acceptable for Ejari.
Ejari is a system that is governed by RERA to make registration of rental / lease agreements easy and accessible to Owners and Real Estate Management Companies of various categories. The Ejari system provides a full portfolio of services beyond registering the initial lease agreement. A new update on Ejari has been released bringing to you a smart and efficient feature to help you find properties available for rent on our new portal www.emart.gov.ae.
By registering a tenancy contract with Ejari online, tenants can save time and money and get everything done from home in less than 6 working hours. The 6-hr Express delivery is guaranteed. All you need is a PC and internet connection. In fact, with Ejari-Registration.ae: 1  you do not need to visit any RERA Office or any authorized typing center; 2  you do not need to attend the RERA training course.