Definition of ZEUGMA. : the use of a word to modify or govern two or more words usually in such a manner that it applies to each in a different sense or makes sense with only one (as in “opened the door and her heart to the homeless boy”). ADVERTISEMENT. 
Zeugma. Zeugma is a figure of speech in which one verb or adjective is used for two or more nouns. This is often done effectively and can lend to the rhythm and cadence of the writing. Examples of Zeugma: 1. I have lost my keys and my mind. 2. You are beautiful both inside and out. 3. The meal and the company were delicious. 4
Noun. 1. zeugma-use of a word to govern two or more words though appropriate to only one; `Mr. Pickwick took his hat and his leave' is an example of zeugma. figure of speech, trope, image, figure-language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense. syllepsis-use of a word to govern two or more words though agreeing in number or case etc. with only one. Translations.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A kind of ellipsis in which one word (usually a verb) is understood differently in relation to two or more other words, which it modifies or governs. In contemporary rhetoric, the two terms are commonly used interchangeably to refer to a figure of speech in which the same word is applied to two others in different senses. See Examples and Observations below. Also see: 1  Ambiguity.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A rhetorical term for the use of a word to modify or govern two or more words although its use may be grammatically or logically correct with only one. Adjective: zeugmatic. 1 We're better off using zeugma in its broadest sense and not confusing matters by introducing syllepsis, a little-known term the meaning of which even the experts can't agree on.. ( 2 Bryan A. Garner, The Oxford Dictionary of American Usage and Style.
Zeugma Definition Zeugma, from Greek “yoking” or “bonding”, is a figure of speech in which a word, usually a verb or an adjective, applies to more than one noun,…. Read more →. 
Zeugma Definition. Zeugma, from Greek “yoking” or “bonding”, is a figure of speech in which a word, usually a verb or an adjective, applies to more than one noun, blending together grammatically and logically different ideas. The above examples of Zeugma show that this literary device may create confusing or dangling sentences. However, if used correctly, it adds flavor to literary texts as it helps produce a dramatic effect, which could possibly be shocking in its result.
Zeugma and Syllepsis. Zeugma is sometimes differentiated from “Syllepsis”. Like zeugma, syllepsis also employs the technique of using a single verb for more than one part in a sentence but where that single verb applies grammatically and logically to only one. The above examples of Zeugma show that this literary device may create confusing or dangling sentences. However, if used correctly, it adds flavor to literary texts as it helps produce a dramatic effect, which could possibly be shocking in its result.
zeugma. n. 1. (Literary & Literary Critical Terms) a figure of speech in which a word is used to modify or govern two or more words although appropriate to only one of them or making a different sense with each, as in the sentence Mr. Pickwick took his hat and his leave (Charles Dickens). Pickwick took his hat and his leave' is an example of zeugma. figure of speech, trope, image, figure-language used in a figurative or nonliteral sense. syllepsis-use of a word to govern two or more words though agreeing in number or case etc. with only one. Translations.
Therefore, a zeugma is a figure of speech where a word applies to multiple parts of the sentence. In the above example, it has a dramatic effect. However, sometimes the attempted use of a zeugma can be confusing. The zeugma is sometimes utilized to create drama, add emotion or produce some sort of shock value. 