From Conservapedia. The Germ theory of disease, developed in the 1860s and 1870s by Louis Pasteur, states that tiny living beings are the cause of infectious diseases. The theory was developed to explain puerperal fever, or Child bed fever. Only after the germ theory was championed by Pasteur (see pasteurization) and Lister (namesake of Listerine mouthwash) did antiseptic medicine become popular. Prior to germ theory, it was widely believed that disease was spread by noxious odors.
After 1879, Louis Pasteur and Robert Koch were able to associate specific bacteria with certain diseases. Pasteur first developed his ideas of the germ theory from his work on Pebrine and chicken cholera in the 1870s. Then, in the 1880s, Pasteur solved anthrax and rabies disease plagues by treating sheep and dogs using the germ theory concept. Pasteur applied his germ theory to vaccinating people against deadly
Louis Pasteur and the germ theory of disease. The work of people like Jenner and Semmelweiss led doctors and scientists to think that perhaps infectious diseases were caused by an infectious agent or 'germ'. This was the germ theory of disease. It took a very long time for this idea to be accepted. Much of the work that led to a wide acceptance of the germ theory is down to Louis Pasteur, helped by the development of microscope techniques by people such as Robert Koch which made microorganisms visible and identifiable. Pasteur made a number of important steps forward.
Germ theory was developed in a social, cultural, and economic milieu increasingly centered on the values of mass production, mass consumption, standardization, and efficiency, all of which were compatible with germ theory science and popularization. The theory was developed, proved, and popularized in Europe and North America between about 1850 and 1920. Because its implications were so different from the centuries–old humoral theory, germ theory revolutionized the theory and practice of medicine and the understanding of disease.
User: Who developed the germ theory for disease? Select one of the options below as your answer: A. Robert Koch B. Marie Curie C. Albert Einstein D. Louis Pasteur Weegy: D. Louis Pasteur. Louis Pasteur developed the germ theory of disease.
Louis Pasteur developed the germ theory of disease, which states that many diseases are caused by microorganisms. Had scientists been skeptical but not open-minded about the idea, A. it would not. have been published in journals. B. it would have been accepted without evidence. Louis Pasteur developed the germ theory of disease, which states that many diseases are caused by microorganisms. Had scientists been skeptical but not open-minded about the idea, C. it would not have become scientific consensus. Added 1/30/2014 8:22:18 AM.