Retinopathy, arteriosclerotic: Changes in the retina that occurs because of arteriosclerosis which involves hardening of the arteries. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Retinopathy, arteriosclerotic is available below. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Retinopathy, arteriosclerotic: 1  Diabetic retinopathy. 2  Hypertensive retinopathy. 3  Central retinal artey occlusion. 4  Central retinal vein
Arteriosclerotic retinopathy: Retinal disease caused by arteriosclerosis. In this condition, the arterioles (small arteries) in the retina become partially blocked because of thickening of their walls. Using an ophthalmoscope, a doctor can see the thickened arterioles and other indications of diminished blood supply to the retina.
Hypertensive retinopathy is damage to the retina and retinal circulation due to high blood pressure (i.e. hypertension). 
Arteriosclerotic retinopathy early diagnosis and treatment is very important, so can prevent complications and blindness. Laser therapy (lasertherapy) for many patients with diabetic macular edema prevention of visual impairment. The goal of treatment is the closure of the blood vessels and prevent further leakage. Prolonged high blood pressure can cause a certain degree of atherosclerosis. But atherosclerosis can exist alone, often through clinical arteriosclerotic retinopathy as an important basis to measure blood pressure and arteri
Tests and Diagnosis for Arteriosclerotic Retinopathy. Hypertension can produce a variety of reasons hypertensive retinopathy, hypertensive retinopathy systemic lesions in the eye, through the examination of the retinal blood vessels, helps to provide reference for the diagnosis and prognosis of hypertension of views. Prolonged high blood pressure can cause a certain degree of atherosclerosis. But atherosclerosis can exist alone, often through clinical arteriosclerotic retinopathy as an important basis to measure blood pressure and arteri
Retinopathy: Any disease of the retina, the light-sensitive membrane at the back of the eye. The type of retinopathy is often specified, such as arteriosclerotic retinopathy, diabetic retinopathy, or hypertensive retinopathy. 
What is Arteriosclerotic Retinopathy. Hypertension can produce a variety of reasons hypertensive retinopathy, hypertensive retinopathy systemic lesions in the eye, through the examination of the retinal blood vessels, helps to provide reference for the diagnosis and prognosis of hypertension of views. Prolonged high blood pressure can cause a certain degree of atherosclerosis. But atherosclerosis can exist alone, often through clinical arteriosclerotic retinopathy as an important basis to measure blood pressure and arteri
arteriosclerotic retinopathy See arteriosclerosis. background diabetic retinopathy A progressive microangiopathy of the retinal vessels occurring in the early stage of diabetic retinopathy. It is characterized by microaneurysms, dot-blot haemorrhages, flame-shaped haemorrhages, hard exudates and retinal oedema. Retinal veins may also become dilated and tortuous.
Retinopathy (medical condition): Eye retina condition. Retinopathy (medical condition): Retinopathy is damage to the retina at the back of the eye. For diabetic retinopathy it occurs because the tiny blood vessels in the retina are damaged by blood sugars from diabetes. 
arteriosclerotic retinopathy. Etymology: Gk, arteria, + airpipe, sklerosis, hardening; L, rete, net; Gk, pathos, disease. a disorder of the retina associated with hardening and thickening of the arteries supplying that part of the eye. It often accompanies hypertension. retinopathy distinguished by attenuated retinal arterioles with increased tortuosity, copper-or silver-wire appearance, perivascular sheathing, irregularity of lumen and scattered small hemorrhages, and small, sharp-edged deposits without surrounding edema.