A UPS contains a battery that kicks in when the device senses a loss of power from the primary source. If you are using the computer when the UPS notifies you of the power loss, you have time to save any data you are working on and exit gracefully before the secondary power source (the battery) runs out. When all power runs out, any data in your computer's random access memory (RAM) is erased. UPS in the data center. Every UPS converts incoming AC to DC through a rectifier, and converts it back with an inverter. Batteries or flywheels store energy to use in a utility failure. A bypass circuit routes power around the rectifier and inverter, running the IT load on incoming utility or generator power.
To determine how powerful of a UPS you need, first use the Thermaltake Power Supply Calculator to calculate your computer's wattage requirements. Take this number and add it to the wattage requirements for other devices you would plug into the battery backup. Important Battery Backup Facts. In addition to acting as a backup when the power goes out, most battery backup devices also act as power conditioners by ensuring that the electricity flowing to your computer and accessories is free from drops or surges. If a computer is not receiving a consistent flow of electricity, damage can and often does occur
Avaya Nortel Ethernet Switches. An uninterruptible power supply (UPS) is a device that allows a computer to keep running for at least a short time when the primary power source is lost. UPS in the data center. Every UPS converts incoming AC to DC through a rectifier, and converts it back with an inverter. Batteries or flywheels store energy to use in a utility failure. A bypass circuit routes power around the rectifier and inverter, running the IT load on incoming utility or generator power.
A UPS designed for powering DC equipment is very similar to an online UPS, except that it does not need an output inverter. Also, if the UPS's battery voltage is matched with the voltage the device needs, the device's power supply will not be needed either. Since one or more power conversion steps are eliminated, this increases efficiency and run time. When the mains power fails, an eddy-current regulation maintains the power on the load as long as the flywheel's energy is not exhausted. DUPS are sometimes combined or integrated with a diesel generator that is turned on after a brief delay, forming a diesel rotary uninterruptible power supply (DRUPS).
Definition. Backup power supply that, in case of power failure or fluctuations, allows enough time for an orderly shutdown of the system or for standby generator to start up. UPS consists usually of a bank of batteries and power sensing and conditioning circuitry, and comes in two basic types : (1) Continuously-Online UPS provides steady and clean (spike free) AC power even when the mains power supply is available, and is recharged continuously by the mains supply.
Short for uninterruptible power supply, a power supply that includes a battery to maintain power in the event of a power outage. Typically, a UPS keeps a computer running for several minutes after a power outage, enabling you to save data that is in RAM and shut down the computer gracefully. There are two basic types of UPS systems: standby power systems (SPSs) and on-line UPS systems. An SPS monitors the power line and switches to battery power as soon as it detects a problem.
Also called true online backup. (2) Standby UPS automatically comes on when the mains supply fails or fluctuates inordinately. Its batteries are recharged when it is not in use. Larger UPSs come with the software that allows for automatic, unattended shut down of the system in its proper sequence. UPS consists usually of a bank of batteries and power sensing and conditioning circuitry, and comes in two basic types : (1) Continuously-Online UPS provides steady and clean (spike free) AC power even when the mains power supply is available, and is recharged continuously by the mains supply.
Backup Power UPS. Eaton is a leading provider of quality backup power UPS, Uninterruptible Power Supply. Eaton UPSs are designed to deliver high quality backup power from desktop PCs to large data centers. 
A battery backup, or uninterruptible power supply (UPS), is primarily used to provide a backup power source to important desktop computer hardwar e components. In most cases, those pieces of hardware include the main computer housing and the monitor. Important Battery Backup Facts. In addition to acting as a backup when the power goes out, most battery backup devices also act as power conditioners by ensuring that the electricity flowing to your computer and accessories is free from drops or surges. If a computer is not receiving a consistent flow of electricity, damage can and often does occu