Advertisement. Trained athletes have a significantly low pulse rate and it is considered as a sign of a healthy heart. But, if a common man has a low pulse, then it is considered as a disorder; which if neglected, can lead to serious conditions.
What Does Low Pulse Rate Mean. Pulse rate measured in the wrist is known as 'radial pulse'. You can feel the beat of your heart at the neck, the groin, at the top of the feet and in the wrist. When the heart contracts, blood is pumped into the arteries.
Pulse rate between 60-100 bpm is considered as normal pulse rate. Pulse rate helps assess the health of your heart. High pulse rate conveys the message that your heart is beating faster than normal. High pulse rate at rest indicates that your heart has to work harder to pump blood into the arteries.
Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge.
A normal pulse rate at rest is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. Generally, a lower pulse rate means that your heart muscle is not having to beat too hard to do its job. However, if your pulse goes too low, it can be dangerous.
Identification. Your pulse rate is also called your heart rate. It is the number of times your heart beats per minute as it delivers blood, oxygen and nutrients to your bloodstream. Your pulse varies throughout the day. Your resting pulse is your rate when you first wake in the morning after a good night's sleep.
For some people, a slow heart rate does not cause any problems. It can be a sign of being very fit. Healthy young adults and athletes often have heart rates of less than 60 beats a minute. In other people, bradycardia is a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system.
Bradycardia is defined as having a heart rate of less than 60 beats per minute – slower than the national average of 60 to 100 beats per minute. Having a slow heart rate may not be a cause for alarm though – healthy young adults and athletes often average less than 60 beats a minute.
For most people, a heart rate of 60 to 100 beats a minute while at rest is considered normal. If your heart beats less than 60 times a minute, it is slower than normal. A slow heart rate can be normal and healthy. Or it could be a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system.