Tweet. Budgies (also sometimes erroneously called parakeets in the U.S.) are the most popular pet bird in the world. They are small, cute, inexpensive, and they talk or chatter a lot. Most of the people I know who have larger parrots started out with a budgie, usually when they were a child. This is not good for either the child or the bird. Parents also need to understand that things can change. Budgies can live a long time. The parent may wind up with a pet budgie when the child grows up and goes to college. If you are not willing to take the responsibility, don’t get your child a pet.
Report Abuse. Budgies are great pets! The person who said they weren't allowed to take their parakeet out of the cage does not understand anything about parakeets-they need to be taken out and have lots of interaction with their owners. A parakeet that is kept properly WILL interact with you. 
The cage is also typically the biggest expense in getting a new pet budgie, so be sure to do your research and shop around to make sure you get the right cage for a good price. Size – I recommend a cage that is at least 1.5 feet wide x 1.3 feet deep x 1.3 feet tall (about 45x40x40 cm). Many owners of fully tamed budgies will swear that their budgie thinks it’s a human! Even if a budgie is not tamed, they still make enjoyable pets. Their antics and singing will brighten up any room in your home. And budgies who are not finger tame still can become friendly towards you, and even still learn to talk.
Parakeets are good first time pets but if you don't like loud noise parakeets are not the pet for you. 
A good pet budgie diet includes a teaspoon of bird seed along with a formulated pet budgie diet (pellets) and sprouted seed, supplemented by healthy vegetables and healthy table foods, such as whole-wheat bread, pasta, plain mashed sweet potato, green leafy vegetables and small bits of fruit. 
Budgies are very good pets but you have to be prepared to watch out for any unusual behaviour or signs of illness. They can get ill easily without you knowing. It is best to get them in a pair because they love company! It is also funny watching them play together. They are also Great for kids.Kids love there colours. 
Budgies (budgerigars) are an extremely popular pet bird, and for good reason. These small parrots make delightful pets, and are usually friendly and easy to tame. While they can sometimes be difficult to understand, they are quite capable of mimicking speech. English budgies are larger and have a different appearance than American budgies, but all budgies belong to the same species, Melopsittacus undulatus. 1  Life span: 10-15 years (up to 20). 2  Origin: Australia. 3  Colors: the normal wild coloration is green with black bars on the wings, back and head.
About Budgies. Budgies, or Budgerigars are a type of parrot and are one of the most popular pets in the world. These beautifully colored birds come in many different colors and can live up to 15 years with proper care. Not only are they inexpensive, but they are also easy to care for. 