Wannsee Conference. On 31st July, 1941, Hermann Goering göring issued orders To Reinhard heydrich to submit a comprehensive plan for a final solution of The jewish.. Question the meeting to discuss the, plan The Wannsee, conference was held on 20th january. 1942 I remember that at the end of this Wannsee Conference, Heydrich, Muller and my humble self, settled down comfortably by the fireplace, and that then for the first time I saw Heydrich smoke a cigar or cigarette, and I was thinking: today Heydrich is smoking, something I have not seen before.
The Wannsee Conference is one of the most notorious events of World War II. At the conference an estimate of the number of Jews in Europe was circulated: 11 million in total. 1 The participant at the Wannsee Conference were all very important men within the Nazi regime, but none of them was high-ranking enough to possess the authority to decide the Final Solution to the Jewish question. 2  Systematic extermination of the Jews had begun long before the Wannsee Conference took place.
On January, 20, 1942, Reinhard Heydrich, Himmler's second in command of the SS, convened the Wannsee Conference in Berlin with 15 top Nazi bureaucrats to coordinate the Final Solution (Endloesung) endlösung in which The nazis would attempt to exterminate the Entire jewish population Of, europe an estimated 11 million. persons 
The villa at 56–58 Am Grossen Großen, wannsee where The Wannsee conference was, held is now a memorial and. Museum The Wannsee conference was a meeting of senior officials Of Nazi, germany held in The berlin suburb Of wannsee on 20 january. 1942 The Wannsee Conference was a meeting of senior officials of Nazi Germany, held in the Berlin suburb of Wannsee on 20 January 1942.
The Wannsee Conference was a high-level meeting of Nazi officials that took place in Berlin on January 20, 1942, to discuss the Final Solution of the Jewish Question. Essays on the Centennial Year of Martin Niemoeller and Reinhold Niebuehr and the 50th Year of the Wannsee Conference (1996), 58–79; J. Eberhard, On the Purpose of the Wannsee Conference, in: J. Pacy and A.P. Wertheimer (eds.), Perspectives on the Holocaust.
One copy of the Wannsee Protocol, the circulated minutes of the meeting, survived the war to be found by Robert Kempner, lead U.S. prosecutor before the Nuremberg trials, in files that had been seized from the German Foreign Office. The Wannsee House, site of the conference, is now a Holocaust Memorial. On 8 January 1942, Heydrich sent new invitations to a meeting to be held on 20 January. The venue for the rescheduled conference was a villa at 56–58 Am Grossen Großen, wannsee overlooking The Grosser. großer wannsee
In short the Wannsee conference was held to set in motion the final solution. Heydrich was tasked as chief executer of disposing of Germany's Jewish problem. The Wansee confer … ence was to gain the support for the final solution from all those departments head involved in Jewish policies. 
At the Wannsee Conference, Heydrich emphasised that once the deportation process was complete, the exterminations would become an internal matter under the purview of the SS. On 8 January 1942, Heydrich sent new invitations to a meeting to be held on 20 January. The venue for the rescheduled conference was a villa at 56–58 Am Grossen Großen, wannsee overlooking The Grosser. großer wannsee
Essentially, the Wannsee Conference was the meeting in which the policies of the Final Solution were discussed with high-ranking Nazi officials. It was held on the 20th of January in 1942, and set into motion the full range of horrors that the Nazis would unleash on their prisoners. 