The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory. In a survey of Cremation Costs last year, in a Texas community near Dallas, we found the charge for a direct cremation ranged from $710 to a high of $3820, depending on which funeral home one used. What makes these numbers even more amazing is; all these funeral homes use the SAME CREMATORY and pay the same fee!
The cost of pet cremation depends on location, where the cremation is done, and time of cremation. The American Humane Society’s cost for cremation of 22.5 kg (50 lb). or less pet is $110 while 23 kg (51 lb). or more is $145. The cremated remains are available for the owner to pick up in seven to ten business days. Urns for the companion animal range from $50 to $150. Cremation dates from at least 20,000 years ago in the archaeological record, with the Mungo Lady, the remains of a partly cremated body found at Lake Mungo, Australia.
Cremation is a process that prepares the remains of a deceased human body for final disposition. Cremation reduces a dead human body to 3-7 pounds of bone fragments and other organic and inorganic compounds. 
1 The national cost for a cremation (with a container provided by the crematory) ranged from $1,000 to $3,000 with an average cost of $1,650. 2 State and federal rules require funeral homes to provide a disclosure form or a contract itemizing the expenses for professional funeral services, facilities, and equipment. The scattering or burial of cremated remains at sea must take place at least three nautical miles from land. A burial/scatter at sea notification form must be filed within 30 days after the scattering with the appropriate Environmental Protection Agency Regional Office.
Typical burial costs: $10,000 – depending on the area and add-on services. Typical cremation costs: $500 to $3,000 – depending on the provider. Body donation costs: $0 – includes transportation, filing of death certificate, cremation and return of cremains at 3-5 weeks.
Here in Virginia, for instance, a direct cremation ranges from a low of $1145 to a high of $2995 through a funeral home, but through our Cremation Society the cost is $595 and includes all the transport (within the city) and paperwork required. In a survey of Cremation Costs last year, in a Texas community near Dallas, we found the charge for a direct cremation ranged from $710 to a high of $3820, depending on which funeral home one used. What makes these numbers even more amazing is; all these funeral homes use the SAME CREMATORY and pay the same fee!
Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead. According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body
A cremation can cost anything from $450 through to $4,000, this all depends on exactly how extravagant the funeral service is and whereabouts you are located. In many of the states where the cremation rate is higher, prices are more competitively priced and a basic cremation can be purchased for around $700 - $900. In Florida and Nevada the prices for a direct cremation can be as low as $450.
The charge for cremation is somewhat less than a traditional burial. However, total costs depend on the services desired by the family and products requested from the crematory. The national average cost in 2010 of a funeral that included embalming, casket, vault and other commonly selected services was $7,755. The scattering or burial of cremated remains at sea must take place at least three nautical miles from land. A burial/scatter at sea notification form must be filed within 30 days after the scattering with the appropriate Environmental Protection Agency Regional Office.