For writing a get well soon message on a card, here are some messages you can use based on two levels of illness. The first group of messages for minor illnesses and the second group for a serious illnesses. For a minor illness, simply send a get well soon message, and let them know you are thinking of them. Here are 15 get well message examples you can use: 1  You are in my thoughts. 2  Hope you get well soon! 3  We miss you here at work. 4  Hope my surprise gives you a reason to smile, and help you feel better
Greeting card messages can be extremely difficult to write. Staring at the blank spot on a card with nothing to write is common. This can happen whether writing a card message to a friend or family member. Knowing what to write in a card can be especially difficult for some people and in some situations such as a death. Don't spend too much time figuring out what to write. This resource is here to help. Write the best card message you can.
Dear Ms. Cards Etiquette, My friend from college has a very serious illness. I’d like to send her a get well card, but it seems inappropriate since she may not actually recover from this debilitating disease. I live in Alaska and she lives in Kansas, so visiting her is difficult, and frankly may not happen before the end of her life.
It could be that I... show more I would like to send a card in the mail to an uncle who is terminally ill, but saying I hope you feel better soon would be strange, and saying I know you're going to die would not be nice. He lives in another country and I would really like to mail this card for him. Next. I would like to send a card in the mail to an uncle who is terminally ill, but saying I hope you feel better soon would be strange, and saying I know you're going to die would not be nice.
What to Write in a Get Well Card. Writing a get well card message is a great way to help an ill or injured person recover easier if not more quickly. Figuring out what to write can be a challenge. Many cards come with impersonal messages, and those messages may be inadequate in expressing what needs to be said. Writing a get well card message is a great way to help an ill or injured person recover easier if not more quickly. Figuring out what to write can be a challenge
If you are writing a card when sending a gift to someone with a serious illness you may want to send a comforting thought with it. Following are some things to think about and some examples of things to say. Whether you are sending a card, a gift, or an email, sometimes it is hard to know what to say. A few choice words can really brighten a person’s day and perhaps, if they are seriously ill, can give them hope of recovery. Here are some appropriate words for a serious illness card that say “I am thinking of you”: 1  If I had a flower for every time I thought of you, I would walk forever in my garden. 2  I think about you constantly, whether it's with my mind or my heart. 3  Until the sun comes out again for you, my umbrella is big enough for two
Special note: some cancers, when removed, aren't life threatening. Find out what the illness is, and get an appropriate card. Also, since she is your stepmother, it would be nice if you send a card every 3 or 4 weeks. You can write in your card, So sorry to hear about your health. You are in my thoughts and my prayers. If you or her are not religious, don't mention prayers. If she is religious, it is a kind gesture. If she likes to do crossword puzzles, word fine, of soduko, pick up a book for her