Probation officers are law enforcement agents who supervise criminal offenders serving at least part of their sentences in the community. While the work of a probation officer is similar in all states, those working in Texas must be familiar with the Lone Star State's laws and probation guidelines.
Professionals from all over the country are seeking probation officer jobs in Texas because employment growth for this occupation is on the rise. The US Department of Labor, Employment, and Training Administration reports there were 5,690 probation officers employed statewide in 2008.
Education Background. While educational requirements for probation officers in Texas vary by judicial district, many applicants have a bachelor's degree. To improve your job prospects, highlight courses you have taken in psychology, criminal justice or social work on your resume.
All probation officers are expected to have at least four years of professional experience prior to joining the work force in Texas. Upon securing employment, all officers must complete at least forty hours of skill training every two years thereafter.
In Texas, aspiring parole officers can pursue training through bachelor's degree programs in criminal justice or criminology. Students can pursue a Bachelor of Arts program, which integrates training in a foreign language. Bachelor of Science programs are also available, but focus more intently on math and science.
College experience is a basic educational requirement for all probation officers in Texas. Most workers have a bachelor’s degree from a postsecondary institution that is approved by the Texas Higher education Coordinating Board in one of the following disciplines:
Probation Officer Eligibility in Texas. Anyone with ambitions of learning how to become a probation officer in Texas must be familiar with the eligibility requirements outlined by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. For instance, no one that volunteers, works, or is employed as a peace officer can qualify to be a probation officer.