Benztropine is an anticholinergic medication. It works by blocking the effects of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter (a chemical in the nervous system). Normal muscle movement control requires a careful balance of acetylcholine and dopamine (another neurotransmitter).
It is structurally similar to atropine (AtroPen) and diphenhydramine (Benadryl). Benztropine has anticholinergic effects. Anticholinergic drugs block the action of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter (chemical) that nerves use to communicate with other nerves. In Parkinson's there is an imbalance between levels of dopamine and acetylcholine neurotransmitters. Benztropine helps restore balance by blocking the action of acetylcholine in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). Benztropine may also block the uptake and storage of dopamine in the central nervous system (CNS), resulting in the prolongation of the effects of dopamine. Benztropine was approved by the U.S. Food and Administration (FDA) in 1954.
This helps to restores the chemical balance between dopamine and acetylcholine in the motor system. Thus, anticholinergic drugs are used to decrease tremors, rigidity, and drooling in patients under the age of 60. Unfortunately, acetylcholine is essential for proper neurotransmission in other areas of the brain. However, anticholinergic drugs decrease the influence of acetylcholine in the body, either by preventing its production, blocking its receptor sites, or breaking it down chemically
However, drugs with anticholinergic (ACH) properties block acetylcholine receptors, antagonizing the central effects of this neurotransmitter and impairing cognition. Many commonly prescribed drugs, by blocking acetylcholine receptors, produce cognitive deficits in older adults. 
Anticholinergics are a class of drugs that block the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the brain. They are used to treat diseases like asthma, incontinence, gastrointestinal cramps, and muscular spasms. They also balance the production of dopamine and acetylcholine in the body. Anticholinergics can also be used to treat certain types of toxic poisoning, and are sometimes used as an aid to anesthesia. Anticholinergics are only available with a doctor’s prescription.
Benzatropine is an anticholinergic drug used in patients to reduce the side effects of antipsychotic treatment. Benzatropine is also a second-line drug for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. It improves tremor, but not rigidity and bradykinesia. Benzatropine is also sometimes used for the treatment of dystonia, a rare disorder that causes abnormal muscle contraction, resulting in twisting postures of limbs, trunk, or face.
Benzatropine (INN), also known as benztropine (USAN, BAN), is an anticholinergic marketed under the trade name Cogentin which is used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, Parkinsonism, and dystonia. Benzatropine is also a second-line drug for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. It improves tremor, but not rigidity and bradykinesia. Benzatropine is also sometimes used for the treatment of dystonia, a rare disorder that causes abnormal muscle contraction, resulting in twisting postures of limbs, trunk, or face.
Anticholinergic drugs block the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on neurons in the brain. Thus, anticholinergic drugs are used to decrease tremors, rigidity, and drooling in patients under the age of 60. Unfortunately, acetylcholine is essential for proper neurotransmission in other areas of the brain. However, anticholinergic drugs decrease the influence of acetylcholine in the body, either by preventing its production, blocking its receptor sites, or breaking it down chemically
Normally, acetylcholine and dopamine have opposite effects, at least in the motor areas of the brain. Thus, anticholinergic drugs are used to decrease tremors, rigidity, and drooling in patients under the age of 60. Unfortunately, acetylcholine is essential for proper neurotransmission in other areas of the brain. However, anticholinergic drugs decrease the influence of acetylcholine in the body, either by preventing its production, blocking its receptor sites, or breaking it down chemically
A muscarinic receptor antagonist (MRA) is an agent that blocks the activity of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. Acetylcholine (often abbreviated ACh) is a neurotransmitter, whose receptor is a protein found in synapses and other cell membranes. Besides responding to their primary neurochemical, neurotransmitter receptors can be sensitive to a variety of other molecules.