1 Glycopyrronium bromide (brand name Seebri Breezhaler) is an inhaled treatment for people with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Some of the side effects that may occur with glycopyrronium, such as dry mouth, are typical side effects seen with all anticholinergic medicines. Other side effects can occur because glycopyrromium is inhaled and can irritate the airway passages.
Glycopyrronium bromide is an antimuscarinic drug that can potentially reduce salivary secretions. This evidence summary describes the efficacy and safety of oral preparations of glycopyrronium bromide (tablets and solution or suspension) when used to treat hypersalivation in adults, children and young people. There is moderate evidence that oral glycopyrronium bromide (tablets and solution or suspension) reduces hypersalivation (sialorrhoea) or drooling in children and young people with a neurological condition, and adults with Parkinson's disease, compared with placebo.
Key points. Glycopyrronium bromide is an antimuscarinic drug that prevents the stimulation of sweat glands. This evidence summary reviews the use of oral glycopyrronium bromide for treating hyperhidrosis, or excessive sweating. 
This is a summary of the Public Assessment Report (PAR) for Glycopyrronium Bromide 1mg and 2mg. Tablets (PL 20117/0094-0095). It explains how Glycopyrronium Bromide 1mg and 2mg Tablets were. assessed and their authorisation recommended, as well as their conditions of use. The grant of Marketing Authorisations is recommended. UKPAR Glycopyrronium Bromide 1mg and 2mg Tablets PL 20117/0094-0095 11 OVERALL CONCLUSION AND BENEFIT/RISK ASSESSMENT QUALITY The important quality characteristics of Glycopyrronium Bromide 1mg and 2mg Tablets are well-defined and controlled.
Glycopyrronium bromide (Seebri Breezhaler) is listed on the PBS for treatment of COPD, but not for any other condition. If you do not meet the criteria to get glycopyrronium bromide (Seebri Breezhaler) on the PBS, you will need to pay the full price for a prescription. Some of the side effects that may occur with glycopyrronium, such as dry mouth, are typical side effects seen with all anticholinergic medicines. Other side effects can occur because glycopyrromium is inhaled and can irritate the airway passages.
Glycopyrronium Bromide 200 micrograms/ml Injection Summary of Product Characteristics 1. NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT Glycopyrronium Bromide 200 micrograms/ml Injection 2. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION Each 1 ml of sterile solution for injection contains 200 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide. Each 3 ml of sterile solution for injection contains 600 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide. 4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines Glycopyrronium Bromide 200 micrograms/ml Injection is used in anaesthesia. It is not anticipated that patients will be driving or operating machinery under its influence.
Glycopyrronium bromide (Seebri) for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease This Medicine Update is for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who are taking, or thinking about taking, glycopyrronium bromide. It belongs to a group of medicines called anticholinergics.The active ingredient is glycopyrronium bromide (pronounced GLY-co-pi-RO-ni-um BRO-mide). The medicine is also known by the brand name Seebri Breezhaler. The Breezhaler is the device you use to take the medicine.
Glycopyrronium bromide (brand name Seebri Breezhaler) is an inhaled medicine for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It belongs to a group of medicines called anticholinergics.The active ingredient is glycopyrronium bromide (pronounced GLY-co-pi-RO-ni-um BRO-mide). The medicine is also known by the brand name Seebri Breezhaler. The Breezhaler is the device you use to take the medicine.
Glycopyrronium bromide (brand name Seebri Breezhaler) is an inhaled medicine for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It belongs to a group of medicines called anticholinergics. The active ingredient is glycopyrronium bromide (pronounced GLY-co-pi-RO-ni-um BRO-mide). Some of the side effects that may occur with glycopyrronium, such as dry mouth, are typical side effects seen with all anticholinergic medicines. Other side effects can occur because glycopyrromium is inhaled and can irritate the airway passages.