The differential grasshopper (Melanoplus differentialis) is a species of grasshopper belonging to the genus Melanoplus found throughout northern Mexico, central United States and southern Ontario, Canada. It is considered a pest in most of its range. 
Species: Chloealtis conspersa (Sprinkled Grasshopper). The Domain Eukarya refers to the taxon that have eukaryotic cells. The Kingdom Animalia refers to the animals. To be fall under the Kingdom Animalia the taxon is multicellular, heterotropic, and eukaryotic.
The grasshopper is an insect similar to the katydid and the  cricket. The scientific classifications are: Kingdom, Animalia;  Phylum, Arthropoda; Subphylum, Hexapoda; Class, … Insecta; Order,  Orthoptera and Suborder, Caelifera. A grasshopper needs to breathe air-just as a person does. But grasshoppers don't have lungs. Instead, they have tiny holes, called spiracles, in their thoraxes and abdomens.  …  A grasshopper has 10 pairs of spiracles. Air goes into the insect's body through the front holes.
The grasshopper is an insect similar to the katydid and the cricket. The scientific classifications are: Kingdom, Animalia; Phylum, Arthropoda; Subphylum, Hexapoda; Class, Insecta; Order, Orthoptera and Suborder, Caelifera.
Grasshoppers have had a long relationship with humans. Swarms of locusts have had dramatic effects that have changed the course of history, and even in smaller numbers grasshoppers can be serious pests. They are eaten as food and also feature in art, symbolism and literature. The grasshopper is persuaded to leap into a nearby body of water where it drowns, thus enabling the parasite to continue with the next stage of its life cycle which takes place in water. The grasshopper nematode (Mermis nigrescens) is a long slender worm that infests grasshoppers, living in the insect's hemocoel.
Locusts are the swarming phase of certain species of short-horned grasshoppers in the family Acrididae. It has been shown that swarming behaviour is a response to overcrowding. Increased tactile stimulation of the hind legs causes an increase in levels of serotonin. The grasshopper is persuaded to leap into a nearby body of water where it drowns, thus enabling the parasite to continue with the next stage of its life cycle which takes place in water. The grasshopper nematode (Mermis nigrescens) is a long slender worm that infests grasshoppers, living in the insect's hemocoel.
Most prevalent in the central U.S., this grasshopper has distinguishing stripes on its 'thighs'. The black herringbone pattern is not unique to this species, but it is rare to see on other grasshoppers. 
Shorthorned grasshoppers, also known as true grasshoppers, are named for their relatively short antennae. A common species, the American grasshopper, is about 10 cm (about 4 in) long when fully grown. Grasshopper, common name for any of the winged orthopteran insects with hind legs adapted for jumping. They include the longhorned grasshoppers, pygmy grasshoppers, and shorthorned grasshoppers, or locusts. They subsist on vegetation and are distributed worldwide wherever vegetation grows
Grasshoppers are insects of the order Orthoptera, suborder Caelifera. They are sometimes referred to as short-horned grasshoppers to distinguish them from the katydids (bush crickets) which have much longer antennae. The grasshopper is persuaded to leap into a nearby body of water where it drowns, thus enabling the parasite to continue with the next stage of its life cycle which takes place in water. The grasshopper nematode (Mermis nigrescens) is a long slender worm that infests grasshoppers, living in the insect's hemocoel.