Stella Artois /ˈstɛlə ɑrˈtwɑː/ , informally called Stella, is a pilsner beer of between 4.8 and 5.2% ABV. It has been brewed in Leuven, Belgium since 1926, although it is also brewed in other locations. A lower alcohol content (4% ABV) version is also sold in Britain, Ireland, Canada and New Zealand. Stella Artois is one of the prominent brands of Anheuser-Busch InBev, the world's largest brewer. Much of the beer exported from Europe is produced at InBev's brewery in Belgium, and packaged in the Beck's Brewery in Bremen, Germany. Stella Artois is also brewed for the Australian market by Lion. In the United States, Stella Artois is imported and distributed by Anheuser-Busch.
Beck's Blue. Brahma. Leffe. Company email (April 2013): Stella Artois is a fine, golden pilsner lager, originally brewed as a Christmas beer in Leuven, Belgium. It is named Stella after the Christmas Star and Artois after Sebastian Artois, the brewery's founder. Company email regarding Stella Artois Cidre consumer.helpline@inbev.co.uk: May 2011. Stella Artois Cidre is made with water, apples from the orchard, sugars (including glucose syrup), caramel and cochineal for colour, sulphites for freshness and malic acid which gives tartness to the flavour.
Andrea: Do you have a favorite vegetarian/vegan dish you like to pair with Stella? Marc: The best vegetarian I had with Stella Artois was a roasted tomato risotto, with toasted pine nuts, Parmigiano cheese shavings and a drizzle of the best extra virgin olive oil. Stella Artois is such versatile beer to have with food and I often think of it as a good white wine. Therefore it will work with lighter dishes, salads, fish and seafood, but can also stand next to more complex dishes like steaks, fried or BBQ food, but my favorite is Stella Artois with a semi-hard cheese.
Beer that has been clarified with isinglass should not be regarded as either vegan or vegetarian.. Boddingtons in can, bottle and keg format is suitable for vegetarians or vegans as the brewing process does not involve isinglass.. Company email: The following AB-InBev beer brands sold in UK are suitable for vegans: Company email regarding Stella Artois Cidre consumer.helpline@inbev.co.uk: May 2011. Stella Artois Cidre is made with water, apples from the orchard, sugars (including glucose syrup), caramel and cochineal for colour, sulphites for freshness and malic acid which gives tartness to the flavour.
Stella Artois Apple Cidre is a European-style cider made from fresh, hand-picked red apples with accents of peach, apricot, and orange. The crisp, and refreshing taste paired perfectly with this light, fresh salad. This Vegan Waldorf Salad is so simple to make, requires very little prep and it would be the perfect side dish or main at any fall gathering. It highlights the apple flavor of the Stella Artois Cidre perfectly.
While Stella Artois used to be made using isinglass, this process has now been stopped and it has been vegetarian since 2009. Helpfully, on the Ocado website, you can select ‘vegetarian’ when filtering products and this will bring up lagers and ciders that are classed as vegetarian. The reason many lagers a not vegetarian is because a fish bladders are used in the filtering process – where the lager is passed through the bladders, called isinglass, to clear traces of yeast. However, not all lagers are made this way. I’ve done a bit of research to find out which lagers are vegetarian friendly.
Most of our beers and ciders are suitable for vegetarians and vegans. The exceptions are Stella Artois Cidre Apple which contains a colouring (cochineal), and our cask ales, Flowers IPA, Flowers Original and Bass. These cask ales contain isinglas, a fish derivative, which may not be suitable for vegetarians and vegans. Stella Artois Cidre Apple is made from a minimum of 70% hand-picked apples. It’s often more but it depends on the harvest. We only claim 50% on the packaging just in case there’s an extremely bad harvest one year. Stella Artois Cidre Pear is made using 100% hand-picked pears.