Head anatomy with olfactory nerve. Within the nasal cavity, the turbinates or nasal conchae serve to direct the inspired air toward the olfactory epithelium in the upper posterior region. This area (only a few centimeters wide) contains more than 100 million olfactory receptor cells. 
In Chapter 9. Nervous System, the olfactory bulb is illustrated in detail. The olfactory receptor cells, olfactory nerves, and olfactory bulbs make up the main olfactory system. The posterior nasal cavity also contains part of the accessory olfactory system, the vomeronasal organ (Jacobson’s organ). In Chapter 10. Sense Organs, the vomeronasal organ is depicted in detail. 
The vomeronasal organ (VNO), or the Jacobson's organ, is an auxiliary olfactory sense organ that is found in many animals. It lies close to the vomer and nasal bones. It was discovered by Frederik Ruysch prior to 1732 and later by Ludwig Jacobson in 1813. This organ is the sense organ involved in the flehmen response in mammals. The VNO is the first stage of the accessory olfactory system and contains sensory neurons that detect chemical stimuli. 
The nose is an olfactory and respiratory organ. It consists of nasal skeleton, which houses the nasal cavity. In this article, we shall look at the applied anatomy of the nasal cavity, and some of the relevant clinical syndromes. This is carried out by the olfactory nerves. The olfactory bulb, part of the brain, lies on the superior surface of the cribriform plate, above the nasal cavity. Branches of the olfactory nerve run through the cribriform plate to provide special sensory innervation to the nose.
The sense of smell is technically known as olfaction. In man the olfactory organ is the superoposterior area of the nasal cavity, including part of the nasal septum and the two turbinate bones, which protrude from the lateral walls of the cavity. The entire olfactory organ is covered by the olfactory epithelium, whose surface area is about 5 cm 2. 
The olfactory mucous membrane contains the olfactory receptor cells and in humans it covers an area about 3 – 5 cm^2 in the roof of the nasal cavity near the septum. Because the receptors are continuously regenerated it contains both the supporting cells and progenitors cells of the olfactory receptors. Olfactory sensitivity is directly proportional to the area in the nasal cavity near the septum reserved to the olfactory mucous membrane, which is the region where the olfactory receptor cells are located. The extent of this area is a specific between animals species.
Smell depends on sensory receptors that respond to airborne chemicals. In humans, these chemoreceptors are located in the olfactory epithelium — a patch of tissue about the size of a postage stamp located high in the nasal cavity. The olfactory epithelium is made up of three kinds of cells: 
Olfactory Membrane. The olfactory membrane, or epithelium, is a layer of cells on the roof of the nasal cavity. It is made up of three layers of cells: the supporting cells, the olfactory receptor cells, and the basal cells. Supporting cells are similar to glial cells and help produce mucus. 
Odor molecules in the olfactory epithelium of the nasal cavity are absorbed into the mucous layer and diffuse to the cilia of receptor neurons. This interaction generates nerve impulses that are transmitted by the olfactory nerves to the dog’s brain, which has a well-devel-oped olfactory lobe. The olfactory receptor cells in a dog’s nose extend throughout the entire layer of specialized olfactory epithelium found on the ethmo-turbinate bones of the nasal cavity.