If so, then you've seen geothermal energy in action! Geo means from the earth, and thermal means heat, so this type of energy is found under the earth. The hot lava from a volcano and the hot steam from a geyser both come from underground heat and we can use that same type of heat in our homes. Electricity from under the earth. We can also use geothermal energy to make electricity. A geothermal power plant works by tapping into steam or hot water reservoirs underground; the heat is used to drive an electrical generator.
Geothermal energy (from the Greek roots geo, meaning earth, and thermos, meaning heat) is energy made by heat inside the Earth's crust. It's clean and sustainable. Although the Sun does heat the surface of the Earth, heat from inside the Earth is not caused by the Sun. The geothermal energy of the Earth's crust comes 20% from the original formation of the planet, and 80% from the radioactive decay of minerals.
V. Ryan 2005 - 2009. The term Geothermal originates from two Geek words 'GEO' and 'THERM'. The Greek word geo meant the earth whilst their word for therm meant heat from the earth. Geothermal energy is energy derived from the heat of the earth. The earth s centre is a distance of approximately 4000 miles and is so hot that it is molten. Temperatures are understood to be at least 5000 degrees centigrade. 
Geothermal Energy. Geothermal energy is another example of thermal energy. The word ' geothermal ' comes from the Greek words ' geo ,' which means 'Earth,' and ' therm, 'which means 'heat.' Therefore, geothermal energy is the thermal energy contained within our Earth. 
geothermal energy-energy derived from the heat in the interior of the earth. heat, heat energy-a form of energy that is transferred by a difference in temperature. 
Geothermal energy is renewable, clean power derived from the thermal energy in subterranean earth. The earth’s thermal energy is created by the decay of radioactive elements in the earth along with the heat from the sun and that remaining from the earth’s creation. Unlike solar power or wind power, geothermal energy is not interrupted by lull times. The technology also has a small carbon footprint in development. Geothermal energy can also be used to drive steam turbines. One example of this technology is Calpine Corporation’s geothermal plants in the Mayacamas Mountains in northwestern California. These 15 plants produce up to 725 megawatts daily, making them the largest geothermal energy source in America.
Geothermal Energy. The prefix geo, like you've seen before in the words geology and geography, is a Greek work meaning Earth. The term thermal is similar to the word thermometer and thermal underwear, and it means heat. We put the terms together in the word geothermal to describe heat coming from the Earth. 
The geothermal energy of the Earth's crust originates from the original formation of the planet and from radioactive decay of materials (in currently uncertain but possibly roughly equal proportions). From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation. Worldwide, 11,700 megawatts (MW) of geothermal power is online in 2013.
geothermal. adjective geo·ther·mal \-ˈthər-məl\. Tweet. : of, relating to, or using the natural heat produced inside the Earth; also: produced by such heat. Full Definition of GEOTHERMAL. — geo·ther·mal·ly \-mə-lē\ adverb. See geothermal defined for English-language learners. See geothermal defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface. From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation. Worldwide, 11,700 megawatts (MW) of geothermal power is online in 2013.