Celsius is a measurement of temperature in which 0 degrees represents the freezing point of water, and 100 degrees represents water’s boiling point at the standard atmosphere, which is the mean barometric pressure at the mean sea level. This temperature scale was developed by Swedish astronomer Andres Celsius in 1742. 
SI Units: Temperature. The Kelvin (K) is the fraction 1/273.16 of the thermodynamic temperature of the triple point of water. The temperature 0 K is commonly referred to as absolute zero.. On the widely used Celsius temperature scale, water freezes at 0 °C and boils at about 100 °C. One Celsius degree is an interval of 1 K, and zero degrees Celsius if 273.15 K. An interval of one Celsius degree corresponds to an interval of 1.8 Fahrenheit degrees on the Fahrenheit temperature scal
Zero on the Celsius scale (0 °C) is now defined as the equivalent to 273.15 K, with a temperature difference of 1 deg C equivalent to a difference of 1 K, meaning the unit size in each scale is the same. 
Celsius is the right word for the unit of temperature, not centigrade.   One degree Celsius is 1/100 of the difference between the freezing and boiling points of water.  …  Here is a nice temperature converter.   Scroll down to related links and look at Conversion of temperatures and formulas. Celsius is a unit of measure that divides the temperature into 100 equal units between the freezing point and the boiling point of … water... that's why it's sometimes called Centigrade, which references the fact that it's divided into 100 parts.
Celsius, historically known as centigrade, is a scale and unit of measurement for temperature. As an SI derived unit, it is used by most countries in the world. The degree Celsius is a special name for the kelvin for use in expressing Celsius temperatures. The degree Celsius is also subject to the same rules as the kelvin with regard to the use of its unit name and symbol.
1 K = 1 °C and 1 K = 1.8 °F. The kelvin (symbol: K) is the SI unit of temperature, and is one of the seven SI base units. It is defined as the fraction 1/273.16 of the thermodynamic (absolute) temperature of the triple point of water
Units of Temperature from fahrenheit to celsius to kelvin and back Degrees Fahrenheit, (developed in the early 1700's by G. Daniel Fahrenheit), are used to record surface temperature measurements by meteorologists in the United States. 
This definition also precisely relates the Celsius scale to the Kelvin scale, which defines the SI base unit of thermodynamic temperature with symbol K. Absolute zero, the lowest temperature possible, is defined as being precisely 0 K and −273.15 °C. The degree Celsius is a special name for the kelvin for use in expressing Celsius temperatures. The degree Celsius is also subject to the same rules as the kelvin with regard to the use of its unit name and symbol.
The unit of Celsius temperature is the degree Celsius, symbol °C, which is by definition equal in magnitude to the kelvin. A difference or interval of temperature may be expressed in kelvins or in degrees Celsius (13th CGPM, 1967). The numerical value of a Celsius temperature t expressed in degrees Celsius is given by. 