In a retirement plan that permits an individual to withdraw money when changing jobs or retiring, that person can postpone paying income taxes on the amount distributed if the money is transferred into a Rollover IRA (or into another retirement plan). An individual can also transfer money from one IRA to another. Generally an individual must make the rollover contribution by the 60th day after the day the distribution is received from the retirement plan or IRA. After 60 days, the distribution is treated as taxable. Visit the IRS Publication 590 page to find out about extensions and waivers of the 60-day rule.
If you qualify to receive a pension from your employer when you reach retirement, you have the luxury of extra retirement income -- and the responsibility to manage it. 
If you have a question about your retirement plan, you can start by looking for an answer in the information that the plan provides. You can request this information from your plan administrator, the person who is in charge of running the plan. Your employer can tell you how to contact your plan administrator. Ask your plan administrator, human resources office or employer for information on what type of plan or plans you have at work. You can ask for a copy of the Summary Plan Description (the retirement plan booklet that you should receive when you enroll in the plan) and review the information about the plan.
SEP contributions can only be made by the employer. The contribution limits are higher than for a traditional or Roth IRA. The maximum yearly contribution an employer can make to a SEP is the lesser of $51,000 or 25 percent of the worker's salary, as of 2013. Contributions made by the employer are tax-deferred like with a traditional individual retirement account. You may want to take money out of your SEP IRA if you leave your job or want to consolidate your retirement funds.
How to Transfer a Pension to an IRA. Transferring a pension to an IRA is a fairly straightforward process. Many employers offer 401(k) or similar retirement plans to employees, but there are still some companies that sponsor traditional pension plans. Before you roll over your pension benefits you'll need to decide which type of IRA you want to set up. You can transfer your money to a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA. If you plan to keep kicking in cash to your IRA after the rollover, a traditional IRA gives you a tax deduction for contributions.
With this type of rollover, the plan administrator is responsible for moving the balance of your pension account to your IRA. You provide your IRA account information and the plan administrator can transfer the money electronically or cut a check to the institution that holds your account. Before you roll over your pension benefits you'll need to decide which type of IRA you want to set up. You can transfer your money to a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA. If you plan to keep kicking in cash to your IRA after the rollover, a traditional IRA gives you a tax deduction for contributions.
An individual cannot do more than one rollover from one IRA to another in a calendar year. However, there is no limit on the number of rollovers from employer-sponsored retirement plans to IRAs in a given year. Generally an individual must make the rollover contribution by the 60th day after the day the distribution is received from the retirement plan or IRA. After 60 days, the distribution is treated as taxable. Visit the IRS Publication 590 page to find out about extensions and waivers of the 60-day rule.
Rolling your traditional 401(k) to a Roth IRA. If your traditional 401(k) plan permits direct rollovers to a Roth IRA, you can roll over assets in your traditional 401(k) to a new or existing Roth IRA. Keep in mind you’ll have to pay taxes on the rollover amount you convert. Rolling 401(k) Assets into an IRA. When you retire or leave your job for any reason, you have the right to roll over your 401(k) assets to an IRA. You have a number of direct rollover options: Rolling your traditional 401(k) to a traditional IRA.
If you leave your employer before retirement age and you are in a defined contribution plan (such as a 401(k) plan), in most cases you will be able to transfer your account balance out of your employer s plan. Ask your plan administrator, human resources office or employer for information on what type of plan or plans you have at work. You can ask for a copy of the Summary Plan Description (the retirement plan booklet that you should receive when you enroll in the plan) and review the information about the plan.