Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), a judgment can show up on your credit report for at least seven years. It can show up even longer, depending on how much time your state's laws give effect to that judgment. For example, if a judgment was filed against you in Arizona, it is good for five years. If a judgment was entered against you in California, it can show up on your credit report for ten years, or even 20 years if the creditor renewed it on time. (You can learn more about your credit report and the FCRA in our Credit Repair area.). by: Stephanie Lane.
Longevity of Judgments on a Credit Report. After the judgment is filed, it can stay on a credit report for an eternity. Depending on the state, the black mark remains on the report for 12 to 20 years, with an option for the creditor to renew the negative strike at the end of that time. Even if it's paid, a notation of Satisfied Judgment stands on the report for another seven years after settlement.
The judgment should also be removed from your credit report seven years from the date it was entered. The bad news is the judgment will still be there, even though you can't see it on your credit report, lurking in the shadows, waiting for the worst possible time to leap out and surprise you. The judgment clock will run for a lot longer than the credit-reporting clock. Here's what I mean: In general, judgments remain enforceable for 10 years (in some states, such as my creditor-friendly state of Rhode Island, it's 20 years) from the date entered or filed with the courts.
· just now. Report Abuse. Judgements can only stay on your credit reports for 7 years, starting on the date of the judgement. It can not be renewed, and making a payment will not reset the reporting date. As far as renewing a judgement, the creditor can go back to court and get it renewed. How long does a judgement stay on your credit report in Ohio I have a judgement from my old credit union and my credit report says it is to come off in september but can they extend it for any reason I never paid it and someone said not to because they will get another 7 years I dont know what to do. Add your answer.
1 Under certain circumstances and certain state's laws, judgments can be renewed. 2  The renewal of a judgment would allow it to show on a credit report for 7 years from the date of renewal, if allowed by state law. 3  Generally seven, although most judgments are renewable in which case it could be on a cr a very long time. 1 A judgment remains on a consumer's credit report for 7 years from the date of entry, or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is longer. 2  This time period applies to each legal action. 3  Under certain circumstances and certain state's laws, judgments can be renewed
A paid judgment stays on a person's credit report for seven years.  An unpaid judgment also stays on the report for seven years, but  may be renewed. Tax liens are another i … tem that stay on a credit  report for seven years, if paid. If not paid, they remain on the  credit report indefinitely. 1 A judgment remains on a consumer's credit report for 7 years from the date of entry, or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is longer. 2  This time period applies to each legal action. 3  Under certain circumstances and certain state's laws, judgments can be renewed
A paid judgment stays on a person's credit report for seven years.  An unpaid judgment also stays on the report for seven years, but  may be renewed. Tax liens are another i … tem that stay on a credit  report for seven years, if paid. If not paid, they remain on the  credit report indefinitely. Answer     Seven years or until the SOL pertaining to the judgment expires. Many states have domestic judgment SOL's that are 10 or 20 years, and many judgments … are renewable. The older the judgment becomes, the less affect it has on the credit score.
Negative accounts stay on your credit report for up to 7 years. Bankruptcies-10 years. It may be harder for you to gain access to credit in the future and they may even try to garnish your wages if it is a default judgment on a debt. In most states, judgments are good for at least 10 years (some 20 years) and can be renewed. Even if the judgment comes off your credit report, that doesn't mean that the judgment is not valid.