From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The history of radiation therapy or radiotherapy can be traced back to experiments made soon after the discovery of x-rays (1895), when it was shown that exposure to radiation produced cutaneous burns. Cases sprung up of the development of carcinoma in patients who had used conventional radium therapy up to 40 years after the original treatments. Robley D. Evans made the first measurements of exhaled radon and radium excretion from a former dial painter in 1933.
Radiation therapy or radiotherapy, often abbreviated RT, RTx, or XRT, is therapy using ionizing radiation, generally as part of cancer treatment to control or kill malignant cells. Radiation therapy may be curative in a number of types of cancer if they are localized to one area of the body. The precise treatment intent (curative, adjuvant, neoadjuvant, therapeutic, or palliative) will depend on the tumor type, location, and stage, as well as the general health of the patient. Total body irradiation (TBI) is a radiation therapy technique used to prepare the body to receive a bone marrow transplant.
Radiation oncology is the medical specialty concerned with prescribing radiation, and is distinct from radiology, the use of radiation in medical imaging and diagnosis. Radiation may be prescribed by a radiation oncologist with intent to cure (curative) or for adjuvant therapy. The precise treatment intent (curative, adjuvant, neoadjuvant, therapeutic, or palliative) will depend on the tumor type, location, and stage, as well as the general health of the patient. Total body irradiation (TBI) is a radiation therapy technique used to prepare the body to receive a bone marrow transplant.
The use of radiation continues today as a treatment for cancer in radiation therapy, where it is applied with strict safety precautions. Cases sprung up of the development of carcinoma in patients who had used conventional radium therapy up to 40 years after the original treatments. Robley D. Evans made the first measurements of exhaled radon and radium excretion from a former dial painter in 1933.
Evolution of cancer treatments: Radiation. In 1896 a German physics professor, Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen, presented a remarkable lecture entitled “Concerning a New Kind of Ray.” Roentgen called it the “X-ray”, with “x” being the algebraic symbol for an unknown quantity. The methods and the machines that deliver radiation therapy have steadily improved since then. At the beginning of the 20th century, shortly after radiation began to be used for diagnosis and therapy, it was discovered that radiation could cause cancer as well as cure it.
Radiation was generally believed to have bactericidal properties, so when radium was discovered, in addition to treatments similar to those used with x-rays, it was also used as an additive to medical treatments for diseases such as tuberculosis where there were resistant bacilli. Cases sprung up of the development of carcinoma in patients who had used conventional radium therapy up to 40 years after the original treatments. Robley D. Evans made the first measurements of exhaled radon and radium excretion from a former dial painter in 1933.
Medicine has used radiation therapy as a treatment for cancer for more than 100 years, with its earliest roots traced from the discovery of x-rays in 1895 by Wilhelm Roentgen. Röntgen Emil grubbe Of chicago was possibly the First american physician to use-x rays to treat, cancer beginning in. 1896 The precise treatment intent (curative, adjuvant, neoadjuvant, therapeutic, or palliative) will depend on the tumor type, location, and stage, as well as the general health of the patient. Total body irradiation (TBI) is a radiation therapy technique used to prepare the body to receive a bone marrow transplant.
The field of radiation therapy began to grow in the early 1900s largely due to the groundbreaking work of Nobel Prize –winning scientist Marie Curie (1867–1934), who discovered the radioactive elements polonium and radium in 1898. The precise treatment intent (curative, adjuvant, neoadjuvant, therapeutic, or palliative) will depend on the tumor type, location, and stage, as well as the general health of the patient. Total body irradiation (TBI) is a radiation therapy technique used to prepare the body to receive a bone marrow transplant.
History of Radiation Therapy. Radiation therapy has been in use for the treatment of cancer and other diseases for approximately 100 years. As early as 1897, it was concluded that x-rays could be used for therapeutic as well as diagnostic purposes, and in 1912, Marie Curie published the Theory of Radioactivity.. The investigation of x-ray radiation for patient therapy moved into the clinical routine in the early 1920s. An original x-ray cancer therapy system in use circa 1922. Since the first uses of radiation to treat cancer, important changes have been made in the field and numerous developments have been accomplished, including: 1  the generation of higher energy radiation beams for more effective cancer treatment.
Radiation Therapy. Radiation therapy, or radiotherapy, is the medical use of radioactive particles to kill and/or control the growth of malignant (cancerous) cells. In this treatment, high-energy subatomic particles are used to remove electrons from their atomic and/or molecular structure: a process known as ionization. History of Radiation in Cancer Treatment. Radiation was being used to treat cancer more than 100 years ago. The discovery of x-rays in 1895 marked the beginning of its medical use.