Get the latest version of iTunes. Learn how to update to the latest version of iTunes. If you have iTunes installed on your computer, follow the directions below to update to the latest version of iTunes. If you don't have iTunes installed on your computer, download it here. 
It is installed as part of the Java installation does not automatically install Java. It will present you with the option to install the latest Java version Until the update is completed, this process will remind you that a newer secure version is available for your system. To enable Java Update to automatically check for updates, select the Check for Updates Automatically check box. To disable Java Update, deselect the Check for Updates Automatically check box. Change the Update Schedule You can change the frequency for updates: daily, weekly, or monthly (default).
This MessageDigest class provides applications the functionality of a message digest algorithm, such as SHA-1 or SHA-256. Message digests are secure one-way hash functions that take arbitrary-sized data and output a fixed-length hash value. digest method can be called once for a given number of updates. Performs a final update on the digest using the specified array of bytes, then completes the digest computation. That is, this method first calls update(input) , passing the input array to the update method, then calls digest() . Returns a string representation of this message digest object.
For example, if you want to transfer your computed digest via an http query string parameter, you'll want to encode it as Base64. Also, saving or printing raw binary to the console will produce a stream of funky characters which may be outside of the printable range, and may also produce beeps from your PC speaker! The Base64Encoder you're using comes from the sun.misc package and should NEVER be used. This is internal Sun JVM code which may or may not be available in the future. That also explains why you're weren't able to find any javadoc. Fortunately, several free and open Base64 encoders and decoders exist.
Update Firefox to the latest version. Note: If you are updating Firefox at work, please check with your IT department if you run into problems. By default, Firefox is set to automatically update itself but you can always do a manual update. 
Java is a programming language and computing platform first released by Sun Microsystems in 1995. There are lots of applications and websites that will not work unless you have Java installed, and more are created every day. Java is fast, secure, and reliable. The JRE is the runtime portion of Java software, which is all you need to run it in your Web browser. What is Java Plug-in software? The Java Plug-in software is a component of the Java Runtime Environment (JRE). The JRE allows applets written in the Java programming language to run inside various browsers.
The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm is a widely used cryptographic hash function that produces a 128-bit (16-byte) hash value. MD5 has been employed in a wide variety of security applications, and is also commonly used to check data integrity. MD5 was designed by Ron Rivest in 1991 to replace an earlier hash function, MD4. Especially the class java.security.MessageDigest provides applications the functionality of a message digest algorithm, such as MD5 or SHA. Below is an example of generating MD5 Hash value for any input in Java using java.security.MessageDigest. Above example is quite straight forward
First of all, you're not performing any encryption. You're computing a one-way hash or digest of your input. This hash can be later used to verify the integrity of the message. See Hashing, SHA1 and MessageDigest. Base64 encoding is a method of representing binary data in ASCII. The Base64Encoder you're using comes from the sun.misc package and should NEVER be used. This is internal Sun JVM code which may or may not be available in the future. That also explains why you're weren't able to find any javadoc. Fortunately, several free and open Base64 encoders and decoders exist.
By enabling your system to check for the latest version, you keep your system secure with the latest patch updates. We strongly recommend that you do not disable the update feature. Instead, change preferences for how often you'd like to be notified of newer versions. To enable Java Update to automatically check for updates, select the Check for Updates Automatically check box. To disable Java Update, deselect the Check for Updates Automatically check box. Change the Update Schedule You can change the frequency for updates: daily, weekly, or monthly (default).