Serotonin and Behavior. Serotonin is a common neuromediator in the brain. It belongs to the group of so-called biogenic amines, relatively simple chemicals that facilitate the transfer of signals between the cells of the body.
Defects in one of the serotonin receptors, 5-HT 1A, are known to lead to the increased anxiety. The decrease of the level of serotonin generated by the action of enzyme monoaminooxidase A is associated with violent behavior and antisocial personality disorder.
Here are some key points about serotonin. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Serotonin is an important chemical neurotransmitter in the human body. 2  It is commonly regarded as a chemical that is responsible for maintaining mood balance. 3  Serotonin is created by a biochemical conversion process.
1 Serotonin that is used inside the brain must be produced within it. 2  It is thought that serotonin can affect mood and social behavior, appetite and digestion, sleep, memory and sexual desire and function.
The serotonin system is very complex. Serotonergic neurons are involved in a very broad range of physiological and behavioral processes such as cardiovascular regulation, appetite, pain sensitivity, sexual behavior, mood, respiration, cognition, learning etc.
1 Serotonin is an important chemical neurotransmitter in the human body. 2  It is commonly regarded as a chemical that is responsible for maintaining mood balance. 3  Serotonin is created by a biochemical conversion process.
Various alterations in corresponding genes affect the levels of serotonin or sensitivity to serotonin and may cause behavioral changes. Changes in serotonin level can affect behavior. The level of serotonin is controlled by multiple mechanisms. Any changes in the genes involved may lead to serious consequences.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that is synthesized, stored, and released by specific neurons in this pathway. It is involved in the regulation of several processes within the brain, including mood, emotions, aggression, sleep, appetite, anxiety, memory, and perceptions.