Double-crested Cormorants are large birds, growing over two feet long, with a wingspan of four feet. They are mostly black with an orange throat. They have a long neck and webbed feet. During breeding season, males have two curly black crests on their heads. Cormorants are water birds, and are found at lakes, rivers, streams, marshes, bays, and coasts. They are great swimmers and divers, as well as good flyers. Double-crested Cormorants usually travel, feed, and roost in groups.
Cormorants and shags are medium-to-large seabirds. They range in size from the pygmy cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmaeus), at as little as 45 cm (18 in) and 340 g (12 oz), to the flightless cormorant (Phalacrocorax harrisi), at a maximum size 100 cm (39 in) and 5 kg (11 lb). Their feet have webbing between all four toes. All species are fish-eaters, catching the prey by diving from the surface. They are excellent divers, and under water they propel themselves with their feet with help from their wings; some cormorant species have been found to dive as deep as 45 metres.
Cormorants are large birds (70 to 90 cm in length, 1.2 to 2.5 kg) with dark brown or black plumage that has a dull greenish or bronze sheen. They have lean bodies with long necks and short wings. They have long, hooked beaks and bright orange-yellow skin that covers their face and throat. Their tails are wedge-shaped. During the breeding season, double-crested cormorants have two curly black crests on their heads, blue eyelids, a dusky-colored bill and orange on their throat. In the winter, adults do not have the crests or blue on their eyelids, and they have a yellow bill.
After feeding, cormorants need to dry their wings. They do not have oil in their skin to protect their feathers from getting wet, like ducks and othe water birds do. Cormorants find a perch and stretch their wings out until they are dry. Double-crested Cormorants often associate with other birds. During breeding season, males have two curly black crests on their heads. Cormorants are water birds, and are found at lakes, rivers, streams, marshes, bays, and coasts. They are great swimmers and divers, as well as good flyers. Double-crested Cormorants usually travel, feed, and roost in groups.
Description [edit]. The great cormorant is a large black bird, but there is a wide variation in size in the species wide range. Weight is reported to vary from 1.5 kg (3.3 lb) to 5.3 kg (12 lb). Texel, Netherlands (2010). The great cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo), known as the great black cormorant across the Northern Hemisphere, the black cormorant in Australia, the large cormorant in India and the black shag further south in New Zealand, is a widespread member of the cormorant family of seabirds.
cormorant (kor´kôr) , mərənt common name for large aquatic, birds related to the gannet and the, pelican and found chiefly in temperate and tropical, regions usually on the sea but also on inland. Waters cormorants are 2 to 3 (ft–61 92) cm, long with, thick generally dark plumage and green. eyes 
Cormorants are generally considered between medium and large birds but can range in size from 18 inches (pygmy cormorant) to 40 inches (flightless cormorant). Most cormorants have dark feathers, but a few species that live below the Equator can be black and white. All cormorants have narrow, long and hooked bills. 
Cormorants nest in colonies around the shore, on trees, islets or cliffs. They are coastal rather than oceanic birds, and some have colonised inland waters – indeed, the original ancestor of cormorants seems to have been a fresh-water bird. Their feet have webbing between all four toes. All species are fish-eaters, catching the prey by diving from the surface. They are excellent divers, and under water they propel themselves with their feet with help from their wings; some cormorant species have been found to dive as deep as 45 metres.