Basic Geography. The primary use of the term Oceania is to describe a continental region (like Europe or Africa) that lies between Asia and the Americas, with Australia as the major land mass. New Zealand. New Zealand comprises two main islands and a number of smaller islands. The South Island is the largest land mass, and is divided along its length by the Southern Alps, the highest peak of which is Aoraki/Mount Cook, at 3754 metres. There are 18 peaks of more than 3000 metres in the South Island. The North Island is less mountainous than the South, but is marked by volcanism
Today, parts of three geological continents are included in the term Oceania: Eurasia, Australia, and Zealandia, as well the non-continental volcanic islands of the Philippines, Wallacea, and the open Pacific. The Oceania ecozone includes all of Micronesia, Fiji, and all of Polynesia except New Zealand. New Zealand, New Guinea, Melanesia apart from Fiji, and Australia constitute the separate Australasian ecozone. The Malay Archipelago is part of the Indomalaya ecozone.
Report Abuse. technically Australia is an island and a country and a continent. but if u don't consider Australia an island it would either be New Guinea or one of the New Zealand islands (north or south)...but no matter what Australia is the biggest land mass in the region of Oceania. jburford93 · 8 years ago. is New Zealand the biggest island in Oceania and Australia the biggest land mass in Oceania. Add your answer.
By Amanda Briney. Oceania is a region of the South Pacific Ocean that consists of many different island groups. It covers an area of over 3.3 million square miles (8.5 million sq km). The island groups within Oceania are both countries and dependencies or territories of other foreign nations. There are 14 countries within Oceania and they range in size from the very large such as Australia (which is a both a continent and a country) to the very small like Nauru. The following is a list of Oceania's 14 different countries arranged by land area from the largest to the smallest. For reference, the capital city and 2011 estimated population has been included for each. All information in the list was obtained from the CIA World Factbook. 1) Australia
Polynesia. The largest component of Oceania is Australia, which (being a continent) is not considered an island. The next-largest land mass is New Guinea, the world's second-largest island (after Greenland). New Guinea is by far the largest component of Mela
As an ecozone, Oceania includes all of Micronesia, Fiji, and all of Polynesia except New Zealand. New Zealand, along with New Guinea and nearby islands, part of Philippines islands, Australia, the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, and New Caledonia, constitute the separate Australasian ecozone. The Oceania ecozone includes all of Micronesia, Fiji, and all of Polynesia except New Zealand. New Zealand, New Guinea, Melanesia apart from Fiji, and Australia constitute the separate Australasian ecozone. The Malay Archipelago is part of the Indomalaya ecozone.
Oceania is a geographical (often geopolitical) region consisting of numerous countries and territories—mostly islands —in the Pacific Ocean. The exact scope of Oceania is controversial, with varying interpretations including East Timor, Australia, and New Zealand. The primary use of the term Oceania is to describe a continental region (like Europe or Africa) that lies between Asia and the Americas, with Australia as the major land mass. The Independent State of Samoa is a country comprising a group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean. The entire group were known as the Navigators Islands, before the 20th century, due to the Samoans' excellent seafaring skills.
Australia's land mass. Australia comprises a land area of about 7.692 million square kilometres. Although this is just five per cent of the world's land mass (149.45 million square kilometres), Australia is the planet's sixth largest country after Russia, Canada, China, the United States of America and Brazil. 