Compartment syndrome is one of the conditions where a fasciotomy may be indicated. People who are likely to have injuries needing a fasciotomy include the following: 1  crush injuries. 2  Athletes who have sustained one or more serious impact injuries. 3  People with severe burns. 4  Persons who are severely overweight. Fasciotomy in the limbs is usually performed by a surgeon under general or regional anesthesia. An incision is made in the skin, and a small area of fascia is removed where it will best relieve pressure.
Fasciotomy is a clinical procedure indicated once the clinical diagnosis of compartment syndrome is made. This article focuses on the treatment of acute compartment syndrome. Contraindications. Fasciotomy is contraindicated when diagnosis of compartment syndrome is made late. Fasciotomy 3-4 days after onset of compartment syndrome can lead to infection and kidney failure in a setting of devascularized and necrotic muscle (see the image below).
Then the incision is closed. Plantar fasciotomy is an endoscopic (performed with the use of an endoscope) procedure. It is done by a foot specialist in a doctor's office or outpatient surgical clinic under local anesthesia and takes 20 minutes to one hour. The doctor makes two small incisions on either side of the heel. 
Description. Fasciotomy in the limbs is usually performed by a surgeon under general or regional anesthesia. An incision is made in the skin, and a small area of fascia is removed where it will best relieve pressure. Then the incision is closed. Fasciitis is an inflammation of the fascia. The most common condition for which fasciotomy is performed is plantar fasciitis, an inflammation of the fascia on the bottom of the foot that is sometimes called a heel spur or stone bruise.
Fasciotomy or fasciectomy is a surgical procedure where the fascia is cut to relieve tension or pressure commonly to treat the resulting loss of circulation to an area of tissue or muscle. Fasciotomy is a limb-saving procedure when used to treat acute compartment syndrome. Fasciotomy in the limbs is usually performed by a surgeon under general or regional anesthesia. An incision is made in the skin, and a small area of fascia is removed where it will best relieve pressure.
Fasciotomy in the limbs is usually done by a surgeon under general or regional anesthesia. An incision is made in the skin, and a small area of fascia is removed where it will best relieve pressure. Then the incision is closed. Plantar fasciotomy is an endoscopic (performed with the use of an endoscope) procedure. It is done by a foot specialist in a doctor's office or outpatient surgical clinic under local anesthesia and takes 20 minutes to one hour. The doctor makes two small incisions on either side of the heel.
Fasciotomy is a surgical procedure that cuts away the fascia to relieve tension or pressure. Fascia is thin connective tissue covering, or separating, the muscles and internal organs of the body. Fasciitis is an inflammation of the fascia. The most common condition for which fasciotomy is performed is plantar fasciitis, an inflammation of the fascia on the bottom of the foot that is sometimes called a heel spur or stone bruise.
Overview. The definitive surgical therapy for compartment syndrome (CS) is emergent fasciotomy (compartment release). The goal of decompression is restoration of muscle perfusion within 6 hours. Following fasciotomy, fracture reduction or stabilization and vascular repair can be performed, if needed. 