Best Answer: Enzymes serve as biological catalysts. Enzymes have the ability to increase a reaction without the need for an increased in temperature is very important to living systems because a significant temperature increase can destroy cellular proteins.
Enzymes are any of several complex proteins that are produced by cells and act as catalysts in specific biochemical reactions. They help break down foods you eat and play a role in major 
Enzymes are important to living organisms in a way that it helps accelerating chemical reactions that make up the life processes of our body. Lack of enzymes cause aging process which can be reversed by taking enzymes supplements as to overcome enzyme deficiency. Ask a question.
Describe how enzymes affect chemical reactions and explain why this makes enzymes important to living things. enzymes lower the activation energy of a reaction by positioning reactive groups of the molecules in just the right way to make a reaction most likely to occur.
People that don't have the enzyme lactase are lactose intolerant. This shows how enzymes are so important to living things. Enzymes are bio molecules that catalyze (i.e. increase the rates of) chemical reactions. Almost all processes in a biological cell need enzymes to occur at significant rates.
Enzymes are organic catalysts which aid in facilitating chemical reactions in the body. Enzymes are needed for metabolic pathways in the body, respiration, digestion and other important life processes.
Enzymes occur naturally in all living things. They are important in all systems of your body…digestive, nervous, respiratory, muscular, cardiovascular, endocrine, lymphatic, skeletal, urinary, reproductive and immune.
Enzymes are any of several complex proteins that are produced by cells and act as catalysts in specific biochemical reactions. They help break down foods you eat and play a role in major chemical reactions. For example, without enzymes we could not break down milk because it contains lactose.
All living organisms (bacteria, archaebacteria, protists, plants, fungi and animals) have enzymes. That is, they synthesise enzymes/produce enzymes, which are essential physio … logical components. An enzyme is a protein that catalyses an essential physiological chemical reaction.