Hashtag. A hashtag is a number symbol (#) used to label keywords in a tweet. The name hashtag was coined by Twitter and combines the word hash (another name for the number symbol) and  tag , since it is used to tag certain words. Each Twitter post can include multiple hashtags, though Twitter discourages spamming tweets with hashtags and recommends using no more than three hashtags per tweet. It is common to include hashtags at the end of a tweet, but you can hashtag any word by simply adding a number symbol in front of it.
A hashtag is a tag used to categorize posts on Twitter (tweets) according to topics. To add a hashtag to a tweet, you just preface the relevant term with the hash symbol (#). That will allow people who follow that topic to find your tweet and perhaps follow you as well. Learn More About IT: The Ultimate Guide to Hashtags.
The quantity of hashtags used in a post or tweet is just as important as the types of hashtags used. It is currently considered acceptable to tag a post once when contributing to a specific conversation. Two hashtags are considered acceptable when adding a location to the conversation. Searching for that hashtag will then present each message that has been tagged with it. For example, on the photo-sharing service Instagram the hashtag #bluesky allows users to find images that have been tagged as containing the sky, and #cannes2014 is a popular tag for images from the 2014 Cannes Film Festival.
Hashtags have been used for social activism. The Twitter hashtags #notallmen and #yesallwomen were used to debate misogyny after the 2014 Isla Vista killings; while the #illridewithyou hashtag was created to tag messages of support for Australian Muslims using public transport after the 2014 Sydney hostage crisis. Searching for that hashtag will then present each message that has been tagged with it. For example, on the photo-sharing service Instagram the hashtag #bluesky allows users to find images that have been tagged as containing the sky, and #cannes2014 is a popular tag for images from the 2014 Cannes Film Festival.
Definition of HASHTAG. : a word or phrase preceded by the symbol # that classifies or categorizes the accompanying text (such as a tweet). ADVERTISEMENT. 
The pound sign or hashtag is visually represented by the symbol ‘ # ’, and by placing the symbol in front of a word (or series of words) on a social network, it will turn that word into a metadata tag. 
Hashtag. If you have been on Twitter, you may have seen a hashtag.. To put it simply, a hash tag is simply a way for people to search for tweets that have a common topic and to begin a conversation. For example, if you search on #LOST (or #Lost or #lost, because it's not case-sensitive), you'll get a list of tweets related to the TV show. A hash tag is slang for the pound symbol, A.K.A. #, A.K.A. a very very small tic tac toe board found on a keyboard and your phone. Used on twitter more than anywhere else now.
{click on image for larger view}. Now, when writing your tweets, you don't have to use the hashtag symbol. There is no hashtag police. Your tweets will still show up in a Twitter search if someone for example did a search for the terms #jeans or jeans. 
A sign suggesting the use of a #TimeToAct hashtag at a 2014 conference. A hashtag is a type of label or metadata tag used on social network and microblogging services which makes it easier for users to find messages with a specific theme or content. Searching for that hashtag will then present each message that has been tagged with it. For example, on the photo-sharing service Instagram the hashtag #bluesky allows users to find images that have been tagged as containing the sky, and #cannes2014 is a popular tag for images from the 2014 Cannes Film Festival.
The hash mark, or pound symbol, (#) is now known by social media users as a hashtag or hash tag. Posts that have the same keywords prefixed with the # symbol are grouped together in user searches, bringing a level of order to the frenzied chaotic world of Twitter. The question what is a hashtag is an ongoing one among social media users, and the definition of a hashtag continues to evolve. Currently, it is acceptable to tag only significant posts that will contribute to the general conversation with one hashtag.