The Associate’s degree usually allows these students to attend the four-year college for only two years. At the end, they receive a degree with the four-year college’s name on it. They only have to pay for two years at the more expensive college, and can earn a Bachelor’s degree there for a fraction of the cost. 
Confidence votes 23.0K. Well an associates degree is a two year degree while a bachelors is four. Not all major will transfer from an associates to a bachelors. For example you can get an associates in nursing and go on later to get your bachelors and it only be about two more years. But if you have an associates in nursing and you want a bachelors in business. You will pretty much have to start over and most likely only your prerequisites will count toward your new degree. If you go to school full time (at least 15 credits per semester), you can complete your degree in two years. However, the average amount of time it takes to complete an associ … ates degree in the U.S. attending school part time is six years.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. An Associates degree typically requires 60 credit hours (20 classes x 3 hours each) and is completed in 2 years of full-time study. A Bachelors degree typically requires 120 credit hours (40 classes x 3 credit hours) and is completed in 4 years of full-time study. If all of your coursework from the Associates program is credited by the Bachelors program, then you will need to complete another 60 credit hours of work for a BS or BA. Best Answer: Well an associates degree is a two-year degree, and a bachelors degree is a four-year degree (usually), so theoretically it should take only two years.
Associate degree holders earn, on average, $6600 per year more than high school diploma holders, and enjoy 30% lower unemployment rates (according to the US Department of Labor). After getting your Associate degree, you typically need only another 2 years to get your Bachelor's degree. Search for your specific program interest at your specific location to find the Associate degree program right for you.
Completing your schooling generally takes the following amount of time: 1  Bachelor's degree: Three to four years. 2  If you already have received certification as an RN, an RN-BSN can be completed in about two years. A bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree prepares you for a job as a registered nurse. While you can work as an RN with an associate's degree, nurses with a BSN are typically given more responsibility, supervisory roles and higher salaries.
Well an associates degree is a two year degree while a bachelors is four. Not all major will transfer from an associates to a bachelors. For example you can get an assoc … iates in nursing and go on later to get your bachelors and it only be about two more years. 
Know your options before beginning your bachelor’s degree program. Print. It’s a common misconception that bachelor’s degrees always take four years to complete. Four years is the traditional amount of time many students take to earn a bachelor’s degree, but it’s different for non-traditional adult students. 