No pain, no gain. There’s another reason muscles may hurt a great deal the day after exercise, and that is that you can actually disrupt and damage and even kill muscle fibers, and that certain kinds of exercise are particularly effective at damaging the tissue. A couple of years ago, I had this brought home personally. You don’t simply relax all your muscles and let your arm flop so the stein falls with a crash to the table — it might spill! — instead, the muscle fibers in your biceps are at a low level of activity, the myosin/actin filaments are ratcheting to generate tension, while the muscle is lengthening, rather than shortening.
When you first start exercising, you may feel one kind of pain-a slow, burning ache in the muscles that is normal and not a cause for concern. This normal burning indicates you are reaching your anaerobic threshold, meaning you're at the limit of your endurance. The pain is believed to result from the buildup of lactic acid in your muscles, which occurs when your muscles are not getting enough oxygen (anaerobic means in the absence of oxygen). This burning is not an indication of an injury but that you're reaching your fitness limit. Feeling sore after a workout does not mean that anything is necessarily wrong, especially if it occurs the next day. Unless you've actually sustained an injury, the pain will probably go away within a day or two, eventually producing lean muscle in place of flab.
Tips for Preventing Sore Muscles. If your muscle pain is caused by tension or physical activity, take these measures to lower your risk of developing muscle pain in the future: 1  Stretch your muscles before engaging in physical activity and after workouts. 2  Incorporate a warm-up and a cool-down into all of your exercise session
Pain is the muscles should not occur during exercise. Occasionally, when exercising at an intensity of which your body is not accustomed too, the muscles may begin to fatigue and cramp. When your body is working at higher intensities it may not be getting enough oxygen to meet the demands of the exercise. Feeling sore after a workout does not mean that anything is necessarily wrong, especially if it occurs the next day. Unless you've actually sustained an injury, the pain will probably go away within a day or two, eventually producing lean muscle in place of flab.
We've all been there: You've crushed a tough workout only to be rewarded with stiff, aching muscles the morning after. Turns out that uncomfortable feeling, otherwise known as delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), is actually a pretty normal side effect of the muscle rebuilding process. The build-up of lactic acid, which is actually a common myth. (Lactic acid is gone from your muscles within about an hour after your workout.). And DOMS isn’t just about soreness. Symptoms can include weakness, stiffness, and sensitivity to touch.
DOMS is a type of muscle conditioning, which means your muscles are adapting to the new activity. The next time you perform the same activity, or exercise at the same intensity, there will be less muscle tissue damage, less soreness, and a faster recovery. 
They’ve been broken up quite a bit. If your muscles hurt, though, don’t panic: the panel at the top right is of muscle fibers 14 days after exercise, and they are fully recovered and are once again well-ordered. You don’t simply relax all your muscles and let your arm flop so the stein falls with a crash to the table — it might spill! — instead, the muscle fibers in your biceps are at a low level of activity, the myosin/actin filaments are ratcheting to generate tension, while the muscle is lengthening, rather than shortening.
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. It's more often the result of an infection, an illness or a side effect of a medication. Common causes of muscle pain include: 1  Chronic exertional compartment syndrome. 2  Chronic fatigue syndrome. 3  Claudication. 4  Delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS).
A strain is a tear in a muscle or a tendon. A sprain is a tear in the ligament. Injuries can happen suddenly, or with repeated stressful movement of the same muscle that wears away at the integrity of the soft tissue. Click the Muscle Care tab to learn what you can do to speed the healing of a muscle injury. Repeat for the rest of your life. Easy! A simple formula is to divide your body weight in pounds in half, then drink that many ounces of water per day. For example, if you weigh 150 pounds, you would need approximately 75 ounces of water a day to stay properly hydrated.
Letting your muscles rest seems to be the best (albeit obvious) option. However, there may be a few steps you can take to be kind to your body along the way. Tart cherry juice, ginger, and turmeric are all natural anti-inflammatories that may help minimize the pain. The build-up of lactic acid, which is actually a common myth. (Lactic acid is gone from your muscles within about an hour after your workout.). And DOMS isn’t just about soreness. Symptoms can include weakness, stiffness, and sensitivity to touch.