Increasing LDL levels were linked to an increasing risk of death for any reason in those who were fasting or not before their cholesterol test. This same group also had a greater risk of death from heart and blood vessel disease.
Fasting and Cholesterol. For the study, researchers looked at the results of all the cholesterol tests processed at the same lab during a six-month stretch in 2011. Because the lab does all the testing for the entire city of Calgary, Canada, that amounted to test results for more than 200,000 people.
A simple blood test is the only way to measure the amount of lipids in the blood, including LDL and HDL cholesterol. Although the practice nurse or GP can take a blood sample by pricking a finger, this pinprick test is usually used only for screening purposes.
An analysis of a blood sample taken with a needle and syringe gives a better indication of health risks. The GP can ask for a full lipid profile test, which not only tests the levels of cholesterol but also of triglycerides. Before having this type of blood test, you will be asked to not eat or drink for 10–12 hours. Because this is a fasting blood test, it can be scheduled for the morning so the fasting period includes when you are asleep at night and therefore normally fasting.
In some cases, you're not required to avoid coffee when you're fasting. Be honest when you go for your blood cholesterol test. If you were required to fast for 12 hours, and you only fasted for 8 hours because you had a snack before bedtime, let the lab know.
A cholesterol test is a simple blood test. Usually, you will be asked to fast (not consume any food and drink only water) for about 10-12 hours before the test but not more than 16 hours.
The researchers compared fasting time with resulting cholesterol levels. Overall, they found fasting time made little difference in the accuracy of the blood test. Levels of total and HDL (good) cholesterol varied less than 2 percent with different fasting times.
Sometimes this time frame is 6 to 8 hours and sometimes you might have to fast overnight. In some cases, you'll have to fast for up to 12 hours. Schedule your blood cholesterol test as early in the morning as possible if you're required to fast for 12 hours.