Tampa: Annual Weather Averages. June is the hottest month in Tampa with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 17°C (62°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 11 in June. The wettest month is July with an average of 190mm of rain. 
Days of Hot Weather in Tampa. Temperatures in Tampa climb above 60 °F everyday from March to November and on all but nine days the rest of the year. Although 100 degree weather is not normal, the city can get over 90 anytime from May to October. The average high and low temperatures are listed below by month and annually for Tampa, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius.
n/a. The highest average temperature in Tampa is August at 83.2 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Tampa is January at 61.9 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Tampa occurs in January with 0 inches. The Tampa weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The Tampa, FL air quality index is 21.7% greater than the Florida average and 13.5% less than the national average. The Tampa, FL pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds.
The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Tampa, Florida during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below by month and annually for Tampa, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature
Average Temperatures for Tampa. Tampa's coldest month is January when the average temperature overnight is 52.4°F. In August, the warmest month, the average day time temperature rises to 90.0°F. 
Climate data for tampa intl ap, Longitude: -82.5403, Latitude: 27.9619. Average weather Tampa, FL - 33602 - 1981-2010 normals. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December.
Average temperature of Tampa including average monthly and annual data. Average temperature is the most popular factor that people take into consideration when looking for the best city to live in. CityRating.com offers the average Tampa temperature chart that displays the annual and monthly temperatures for Tampa and dozens of other cities.
Cruise ship Sensation docted at Port of Tampa. © Dawn Henthorn, licensed to About.com. Tampa, located in West Central Florida and home to the Port of Tampa and The Florida Aquarium, has an overall average high temperature of 82° and an average low of 63°. The highest recorded temperature in Tampa was 99° in 1985 and the lowest recorded temperature was a very 18° in 1962. On average Tampa's warmest month is July and January is the average coolest month. The maximum average rainfall usually falls in August.