Answer by snappies (579). Xanax can stay in your system for one to three days after you take it. It will show up in a urine test for that long and maybe a day or two longer. If you are taking a urine test plan on not taking xanax for up the four days, unless you have a perscription for it.
In fact, Xanax can be detectable in urine for up to 6 weeks in heavy users. Plus, the main ingredient in Xanax (alprazolam) takes a fairly long time to absorb once it’s in the body, so even small doses can be detectable for over a week.
Xanax is a relatively short-acting drug when compared to Valium. If you're an average-size person, you would expect Xanax to stay in your urine for 1-4 days after last use. To be safe, you should wait at least a week. Note that this is very dependent on how much and for how long you've been taking it.
A single 0.5 mg dose of Xanax stays in your system for 3 to 5 days. But the longer period of taking Xanax, and the higher the dosages, the longer it will take your system to g … et rid of traces of Xanax. You may sometimes need a month or more to get yourself quite clear of the medication.
Answer by Sarbutt (8). Xanax is detectable in your urine as a member of the Benzodiazepine class of addictive drugs. The majority of the drug is stored and filtered out by the liver within 72 hours, however, trace amounts are said to be detectable for up to 6 weeks though it isn't taking any psychological action.
Xanax (the brand name for alprazolam) is a short – intermediate acting benzodiazepine, which means that you can feel the effects of Xanax quickly as they peak 1-2 hours after taking it. However, the effects of Xanax but do not last very long, about 6-12 hours.
XANAX (alprazolam) HAS a duration of action of up to 6 hours. If you want to know how long after you take it can it be DETECTED, that's different. Most benzodiazapines, when taken on a regular basis, can be detected in the urine from 24 hours to 72 hours.
Answer by sarahdf (190). Xanax, like most medications, can be detected in urine. It is considered a benzo and therefore generally will not stay in your system more then 2-3 days; However, this does not take into consideration the strength and the amount taken.
Best Answer: No, it should not show up on a urine drug screen if it has been two months since you last consumed this drug. The typical rule of thumb for the group of drugs known as Benzodiazipines (which include Xanax, Valuim, Klonipin, etc.) is thirty days to clear the urine.