The pancreatic islets or islets of Langerhans are the regions of the pancreas that contain its endocrine (i.e., hormone-producing) cells. Discovered in 1869 by German pathological anatomist Paul Langerhans, the pancreatic islets constitute approximately 1-2% of the pancreas's mass and receive 10-15% of its blood flow. There are about one million islets distributed throughout the pancreas of a healthy adult human, :914 each of which measures about 0.2 mm in diameter.
Delta cells make up 5% of the pancreatic cells in the Islets of Langerhans and are located variably in the area and release somatostatin, produce somatostatin, which acts within the islets of Langerhan to inhibit the production of both glucagon and insulin, slows GI motility, allowing more time for food to be absorbed. Histology of Pancreatic Islets of Langerhans. 1-two million Islets in human 2- in the islets the cells are arranged in irregular chains and cords separated by a rich blood supply; 3- cells in islets: alpha cells (70%) secrete insulin and beta cells(20%) secrete glucagon.
The islets of Langerhans are the endocrine (endo= within) cells of the pancreas that produce and secrete hormones such as insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream. The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. 
The Islets of Langerhans. The Islets of Langerhans are commonly referred to as islets (pronounced EYE-lets). Islets actually are clusters of cells, with each islet containing 3,000 to 4,000 cells. Scientists estimate there are 1 million islets in a healthy, adult pancreas. They make up only 1 to 2 percent of the entire organ. 
Islets of Langerhans: Known as the insulin-producing tissue, the islets of Langerhans do more than that. They are groups of specialized cells in the pancreas that make and secrete hormones. 
Hormones produced in the pancreatic islets are secreted directly into the blood flow by (at least) five types of cells. In rat islets, endocrine cell subsets are distributed as follows: 1  Alpha cells producing glucagon (15–20% of total islet cells). 2  Beta cells producing insulin and amylin (65–80%). There are about one million islets distributed throughout the pancreas of a healthy adult human, :914 each of which measures about 0.2 mm in diameter.
1. islets of Langerhans-cell clusters in the pancreas that form the endocrine part of that organ; secrete insulin and other hormones. islands of Langerhans, isles of Langerhans. ductless gland, endocrine gland, endocrine-any of the glands of the endocrine system that secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream. is·lets of Lang·er·hans. pl.n. Irregular clusters of endocrine cells scattered throughout the tissue of the pancreas that secrete insulin and glucagon. Also called island
Other hormones affecting carbohydrate metabolism include: epinephrine, thyroid hormones, glucocorticoids, and growth hormone. Structure and Function of the Pancreas. The pancreas lies inferior to the stomach, in a bend of the duodenum. It is both an endocrine and an exocrine gland. The exocrine functions are concerned with digestion. The endocrine function consists primarily of the secretion of the two major hormones, insulin and glucagon. 
Pancreas—Islets of Langerhans. The pancreas is a long, soft organ that lies transversely along the posterior abdominal wall, posterior to the stomach, and extends from the region of the duodenum to the spleen. This gland has an exocrine portion that secretes digestive enzymes that are carried through a duct to the duodenum. The endocrine portion consists of the pancreatic islets, which secrete glucagons and insulin. Alpha cells in the pancreatic islets secrete the hormone glucagons in response to a low concentration of glucose in the blood.
A American Diabetes Association answered. Islets are groups of cells located in the pancreas that make hormones that help the body break down and use food. For example, alpha cells make glucagon and beta cells make insulin. They are also called islets of Langerhans. 