What It Is Lipase is an enzyme produced mainly by the pancreas (an organ located near the stomach) and secreted into the small intestine, where it helps breaks down fats (lipids) we eat into fatty acids and glycerol. A lipase test measures the amount of lipase in the blood. The lipase test may be ordered if a doctor suspects pancreatic dysfunction, including pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), gallstones, an injury to the pancreas, or a blockage of the pancreatic duct. Symptoms of a pancreatic disorder may include abdominal pain, fever, loss of appetite, or nausea.
Lipase. Guide. A lipase test measures the amount of this enzyme in a blood sample. High amounts of lipase may be found in the blood when the pancreas is damaged or when the tube leading from the pancreas (pancreatic duct) to the beginning of the small intestine is blocked.
A lipase test measures the amount of this enzyme in a blood sample. Results are normally available within 12 hours. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. 1 The lipase test is more accurate than the amylase test for diagnosing pancreatitis. 2  Other blood tests that may be done at the same time as a test for lipase include calcium, glucose, phosphorus, triglycerides, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine. 3  Calcium in Blood. 4  Blood Glucose.
This enzyme is mainly produced in the pancreas, but may also be generated from the stomach and mouth. In short, lipase assists in food absorption and healthy appropriation of nutrients throughout the body. A lipase test, as the name goes, is administered to measure the amount of this enzyme in your blood sample. A high amount of lipase in the blood is usually an indication of a damaged pancreas or blocked pancreatic duct. 
A high lipase level in the blood may indicate the presence of a condition affecting the pancreas. In acute pancreatitis, lipase levels are frequently very high, often 5 to 10 times higher than the highest reference value (often called the upper limit of normal). A low level of lipase in the blood may indicate permanent damage to the lipase-producing cells in the pancreas. This can occur in chronic diseases that affect the pancreas such as cystic fibrosis.
The lipase test is used to measure the amount of lipase in the body. In many instances, the lipase test will be ordered in conjunction with the amylase test. An amylase test is used to diagnose diseases of the pancreas. The results from these tests are typically used to diagnose and monitor specific health conditions, including: 1  acute pancreatitis. 2  chronic pancreatitis. Lipase is an enzyme made by the pancreas. When you eat, lipase is released into the digestive tract to aid in the breakdown of fats. Lipase also functions to increase cell permeability. Cell permeability allows vital nutrients and wastes to flow across the cell wall. The nutrients nourish the cell.
The lipase test is a blood test performed to determine the serum level of a specific protein (enzyme) involved in digestion. Lipase is an enzyme produced by the pancreas, which is a large gland situated near the stomach. Lipase works to break down a certain type of blood lipid (triglycerides) into fatty acids. 
This test measures the amount of lipase in your blood. Lipase is an enzyme that is made by your pancreas. It helps your body digest fats. Higher levels of lipase may mean you have a problem with your pancreas. Most often this means acute pancreatitis, or sudden inflammation of the pancreas. 