1 Gout is a form of arthritis caused by excess uric acid in the bloodstream. 2  The symptoms of gout are due to the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints. 3  Gout most commonly affects the joint in the base of the big toe. 4  Gout attacks often occur without warning in the middle of the night. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1 
Certain joint infections can produce symptoms similar to gout. If an infection is suspected, the doctor may check joint fluid for bacteria. Blood tests can reveal the concentration of uric acid in the blood and further confirm the diagnosis. Also called gouty arthritis, gout is a painful form of arthritis caused by too much uric acid in the body. The painful flare-ups may be concentrated in the big toe (a symptom known as podagra), as well as swelling and pain in the ankles, knees, feet, wrists or elbows.
Gout is a kind of arthritis. It can cause an attack of sudden burning pain, stiffness, and swelling in a joint, usually a big toe. These attacks can happen over and over unless gout is treated. Over time, they can harm your joints, tendons, and other tissues. Gout is most common in men. Gout is caused by too much uric acid in the blood
Signs and Symptoms of Gout. 1  hyperuricemia. 2  presence of uric acid crystals in joint fluid. 3  more than one attack of acute arthritis. 4  arthritis that develops in a day, producing a swollen, red, and warm joint. 5  attack of arthritis in only one joint, often the toe, ankle, or knee. Hyperuricemia is not a disease, and by itself it is not dangerous. However, if excess uric acid crystals form as a result of hyperuricemia, gout can develop. The crystals form and accumulate in the joint, causing inflammation.
1 A doctor may obtain a blood sample to look at cell counts, uric acid levels, kidney function, etc. 2  Unfortunately, the level of uric acid in the blood cannot be reliably used to make a diagnosis of gout. 3  It is normal in approximately 10% of people during an acute attack of gouty arthritis. Blood tests. 1 
Gout is a form of arthritis, hence it causes pain and discomfort in the joints. A typical gout attack is characterized by the sudden onset of severe pain, swelling, warmth, and redness of a joint. The clinical presentation of acute gouty arthritis is not subtle with very few mimics other than a bacterial infection.
Gout is a disorder that causes sudden attacks of intense pain, swelling, and redness in your joints or soft tissues. In many cases, the first attacks occur in the joints of the big toe, but gout can affect many other joints. It is one type of inflammatory arthritis. 
Gout is a painful condition that occurs when the bodily waste product uric acid is deposited as needle-like crystals in the joints and/or soft tissues. In the joints, these uric acid crystals cause inflammatory arthritis, which in turn leads to intermittent swelling, redness, heat, pain, and stiffness in the joints. Hyperuricemia is not a disease, and by itself it is not dangerous. However, if excess uric acid crystals form as a result of hyperuricemia, gout can develop. The crystals form and accumulate in the joint, causing inflammation.
It may also present as tophi, kidney stones, or urate nephropathy. It is caused by elevated levels of uric acid in the blood. The uric acid crystallizes, and the crystals deposit in joints, tendons, and surrounding tissues. Clinical diagnosis may be confirmed by seeing the characteristic crystals in joint fluid. Gout presenting in the metatarsal-phalangeal joint of the big toe: Note the slight redness of the skin overlying the joint. Gout can present in a number of ways, although the most usual is a recurrent attack of acute inflammatory arthritis (a red, tender, hot, swollen joint).