Kabbalah (Hebrew: קַבָּלָה ‎, literally receiving/tradition) is an esoteric method, discipline, and school of thought that originated in Judaism. Kabbalah is a set of esoteric teachings meant to explain the relationship between an unchanging, eternal, and mysterious Ein Sof (infinity) and the mortal and finite universe (God's creation). While it is heavily used by some denominations, it is not a religious denomination in itself.
Kabbalah is an aspect of Torah, and Torah means “guidance” or “instructions.” Everything in Kabbalah is meant as an instruction in life. We study Kabbalah not to just to reach a high, but because we need its inspiration in everyday life, and because it provides us direction and practical guidance. We often call it “ Kabbalah ”, meaning “receiving.” Just as Jewish practice is received through an unbroken, ancient tradition from the revelation at Sinai, so is its soul. Kabbalah, then, is the received wisdom, the native theology and cosmology of Judaism.
Historically, Kabbalah emerged, after earlier forms of Jewish mysticism, in 12th-to 13th-century Southern France and Spain, becoming reinterpreted in the Jewish mystical renaissance of 16th-century Ottoman Palestine. Kabbalah is a set of esoteric teachings meant to explain the relationship between an unchanging, eternal, and mysterious Ein Sof (infinity) and the mortal and finite universe (God's creation). While it is heavily used by some denominations, it is not a religious denomination in itself.
Authentic Jewish mysticism is an integral part of Torah, and Torah determines what is authentic Jewish mysticism. The general term for Jewish mysticism is  Kabbalah . Kabbalah means tradition. Kabbalah is not a compound of personal insights. It is not a collection of reports of what various sages and saints had to say on the meaning of life and ultimate values-based on their mystical experiences or visions. It is not a system born in a vacuum.
Kabbalah is the name applied to the whole range of Jewish mystical activity. While codes of Jewish law focus on what it is God wants from man, kabbalah tries to penetrate deeper, to God's essence itself. 
Kabbalah originally developed within the realm of Jewish thought, and kabbalists often use classical Jewish sources to explain and demonstrate its esoteric teachings. Kabbalah is a set of esoteric teachings meant to explain the relationship between an unchanging, eternal, and mysterious Ein Sof (infinity) and the mortal and finite universe (God's creation). While it is heavily used by some denominations, it is not a religious denomination in itself.
Kabbalah is an ancient wisdom that reveals how the universe and life work. On a literal level, the word Kabbalah means “to receive.” It's the study of how to receive fulfillment in our lives. Most of us, at some point in our life, have been overcome with the feeling that we are not as fulfilled as we could be. We need the wisdom of Kabbalah more now than at any other time in our history. Kabbalah is not a religion, it's not dogma, and it's not a belief system that you have to buy into. Even more importantly, it's not anyone's personal opinion of how the universe works.
which the Ein Sof, (infinite God), created and rules the universe. Kabbalah (also spelled Kabalah, Cabala, Qabala)—sometimes translated as “mysticism” or “occult knowledge—is a part of Jewish tradition that deals with the essence of God. Whether it entails a sacred text, an experience, or the way things work, Kabbalists believe that God moves in mysterious ways. 
Authentic Jewish mysticism is an integral part of Torah, and Torah determines what is authentic Jewish mysticism. The general term for Jewish mysticism is  Kabbalah . Kabbalah means tradition. Kabbalah is not a compound of personal insights. It is not a collection of reports of what various sages and saints had to say on the meaning of life and ultimate values-based on their mystical experiences or visions. It is not a system born in a vacuum.
Kabbalah: A Brief Definition. By Baruch Emanuel Erdstein. Often referred to as the soul of the Torah, the Kabbalah is an ancient Jewish tradition which teaches the deepest insights into the essence of G-d, His interaction with the world, and the purpose of Creation. Kabbalah teaches the essential Jewish cosmology, integral to all other Torah disciplines. 