Not all lettuce is created equal, but if you start your meal with a salad made of romaine lettuce you will be sure to add not only a variety of textures and flavors to your meal but an enormous amount of nutritional value. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Romaine lettuce is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
Today, the majority of lettuce is grown for its leaves, although one type is grown for its stem and one for its seeds, which are made into an oil. Most lettuce is used in salads, either alone or with other greens, vegetables, meats and cheeses. Lettuce's native range spreads from the Mediterranean to Siberia, although it has been transported to almost all areas of the world. Plants generally have a height and spread of 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 cm). The leaves are colorful, mainly in the green and red color spectrums, with some variegated varieties.
(7). Your body does not make powerful vitamin C on its own naturally and relies on foods high in vitamin C. The body also does not store vitamin C, so it is important that you get this essential vitamin frequently from whole food sources including leafy greens like romaine lettuce. The rich supply of vitamin A and vitamin C found in romaine lettuce helps to protect against eye disorders. Deficiencies in these antioxidants can lead to a thickening of the cornea, glaucoma, cataracts, macular degeneration, and possibly even blindness as one ages.
Like other lettuces, Romaine lettuce seeds are very fine. Plant in rows, spreading the seeds as thinly as possible. No matter how hard you try, the seeds are very difficult to disperse. Thinning seedlings is must. Cover the seeds with a very fine layer of loose soil or starting mixture. Romaine lettuce is one of the most popular of lettuces in both the garden, and the kitchen. Gardener's love it because it is fast growing, and forms a loose head, that is easy to harvest. It takes up little space in the garden, too. Sweet and delicious, Roman Emperor Caesar knew what the best tasting lettuce was.
Lettuce is most often used for salads, although it is also seen in other kinds of food, such as soups, sandwiches and wraps; it can also be grilled. One variety, the Woju (莴苣) or asparagus lettuce, is grown for its stems, which are eaten either raw or cooked. Lettuce's native range spreads from the Mediterranean to Siberia, although it has been transported to almost all areas of the world. Plants generally have a height and spread of 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 cm). The leaves are colorful, mainly in the green and red color spectrums, with some variegated varieties.
Lettuce spread to the Greeks and Romans, the latter of whom gave it the name  lactuca , from which the English lettuce is ultimately derived. By 50 AD, multiple types were described, and lettuce appeared often in medieval writings, including several herbals. Lettuce's native range spreads from the Mediterranean to Siberia, although it has been transported to almost all areas of the world. Plants generally have a height and spread of 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 cm). The leaves are colorful, mainly in the green and red color spectrums, with some variegated varieties.
Start with romaine lettuce for a salad guaranteed to be packed with nutrients. The vitamins, minerals, phytonutrients and fiber found in romaine lettuce are especially good for the prevention or alleviation of many common health complaints. In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Romaine lettuce is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more.
Romaine lettuce spread to Rome where it was given its Italian name “romaine”, in regards to coming from Rome. It is still commonly consumed in the Mediterranean region of the world today and has become popular in other areas of the world, especially as the primary ingredient in “caesar salad”. The rich supply of vitamin A and vitamin C found in romaine lettuce helps to protect against eye disorders. Deficiencies in these antioxidants can lead to a thickening of the cornea, glaucoma, cataracts, macular degeneration, and possibly even blindness as one ages.
Romaine or cos lettuce is a variety of lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. var. longifolia) that grows in a tall head of sturdy leaves with firm ribs down their centers. Other authorities trace it to the Arabic word for lettuce, خس khus ([ˈxus]). It apparently reached the West via Rome, as in Italian it is called lattuga romana and in French laitue romaine, both meaning 'Roman lettuce', hence the name 'romaine', the common term in North American English.
Romaine is a common salad green, and is the usual lettuce used in Caesar salad. Romaine lettuce is commonly used in Middle Eastern cuisine. Romaine, like other lettuces, may also be cooked, for example braised or made into soup. Other authorities trace it to the Arabic word for lettuce, خس khus ([ˈxus]). It apparently reached the West via Rome, as in Italian it is called lattuga romana and in French laitue romaine, both meaning 'Roman lettuce', hence the name 'romaine', the common term in North American English.