You will only qualify for the EB unemployment extension if you have used up all of your regular unemployment benefits and also used up all of your EUC08 unemployment extension.
In the United States, federally mandated unemployment compensation typically lasts 26 weeks. However, it may not be possible for you to find work during that time, and you might need extended benefits. During times of high unemployment, states may extend unemployment benefits by a few weeks to a few months.
If you qualify for the EB Extended Benefits unemployment extension you will receive additional benefits equal to 20 weeks or 80% of the maximum benefit amount on the original unemployment claim, whichever amount is less.
17 You will not get unemployment benefits for these 2 weeks. After the 2 weeks end and your waiting week is over, you can get 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. Relevant state laws and rules: Arizona Revised Statutes section 23‐621; Arizona Administrative Code section R6‐3‐55460. 11.
However, extended benefits are available to eligible claimants by the State (extension of benefits for an additional 13 weeks). Claimants who exhuast the additional 13 weeks of benefits can still extend compensation through the EUC, for a specified period of time.
Arizona Unemployment Extension. If your Arizona unemployment benefits have run out you may be eligible to receive extended unemployment benefits through one of the state or federal unemployment extension programs. This federal unemployment extension programs is called Emergency Unemployment Compensation, 2008 (Also known as EUC08).
Tier 3 EUC08: 13 week maximum unemployment extension. Tier 4 EUC08: 6 week maximum unemployment extension. If you use up all of your regular unemployment benefits, normally you don't have to apply for an unemployment extension because the system automatically applies for you, if you are eligible.
You will only qualify for the EB Extended Benefits unemployment extension if you have used up all of your regular unemployment benefits and also used up all of your EUC08 unemployment extension.