1 The price of ceramic brake pads is going to depend entirely on the make and model of the vehicle on which they are being installed. 2  On average though, a basic set of ceramic brake pads is going to run between $35-50, where a high end set can run upwards of $200. 3  This will not include installation. 1 When installation is factored in, plan on spending $200 to $400 including parts. 2  However, high-performance brake pads for premium models can cost well into the thousands. 3  For example, AutoAnything.com, an online retailer that specializes with auto parts, sells ceramic brakes for $25 to $55 per pair.
1 For work on front and back brakes, CostHelper readers reported paying $273-$1,025 for an average of $567 at standard repair shops, or $280-$935 for an average of $578 at dealerships. I took it to this shop and they replaced the piston, the caliper, and the rotors for $300. The radio also didn't work so the guy bought a kenwood (expensive) without my consent and fixed the radio. I told him that I wanted to have it fixed at a later date but he had opened up that part of the car and fixed it already.
I would say that a set of pads could cost as little or less than twenty dollars and as much as a hundred depending on the vehicle. The way to easily find out is to call your l … ocal auto parts store and give them the make model and year of the vehicle and they can answer your question in less than a minute. Answer by Pardo7. Confidence votes 29. Not much if you know what you are doing. If you don't know what you are doing, take it to Pep Boys or something and you can usually get it done for forty or fifty dollars Front brake pads replacement cost usually cost between $20 and $35, depending on quality and the vehicle.
It will cost approximately $60, per wheel, to replace your brake  pads and rotors. Mechanic shops that specialize in brake  replacement are usually the cheapest. The automob … ile dealership is  usually the most. I would say that a set of pads could cost as little or less than twenty dollars and as much as a hundred depending on the vehicle. The way to easily find out is to call your local auto parts store and give them the make model and year of the vehicle and they can answer your question in less than a minute.
Not much if you know what you are doing. If you don't know what you are doing, take it to Pep Boys or something and you can usually get it done for forty or fifty dollars   … Front brake pads replacement cost usually cost between $20 and $35, depending on quality and the vehicle. I would say that a set of pads could cost as little or less than twenty dollars and as much as a hundred depending on the vehicle. The way to easily find out is to call your local auto parts store and give them the make model and year of the vehicle and they can answer your question in less than a minute.
An average cost when replacing brakes can range anywhere from $25 to $60, depending on quality and availability. The cost of brake pads being installed on your car is based on labor rates at most repair facilities. On average, a brake pad replacement will take an hour or more per side. Flat rate labor is commonly applied to labor charges for new brake pads. This means the repair for brake pads is pre-calculated in a repair manual and applied to the bill. If the book says it will take 2.5 hours to install the pads on your vehicle, you will be charged 2.5 hours times the hourly labor rate.
Parts: $145 - $213. The average cost for a brake pad and rotor replacement is between $297 to $406. Labor costs are estimated between $152 to $193 while parts are priced between $145 to $213. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees