This swelling is due to a buildup in the body of fluid in the tissues and due to the natural pull of gravity, this fluid is drawn to the ankles and feet. Other than the obvious swelling that can be seen an individual will also have a fast weight gain in a short amount of time due to the extra fluid.
To reduce the swelling from a foot or ankle injury, rest to avoid walking on the injured ankle or foot, use ice packs, wrap the foot or ankle with compression bandage, and elevate the foot on a stool or pillow. If swelling and pain is severe or doesn't improve with home treatment, see your doctor.
Foot, leg, and ankle swelling—also known as peripheral edema—refers to an accumulation of fluid in these parts of the body. The buildup of fluid is not usually painful, unless it is due to injury. Swelling is often more apparent in the lower area of the body because of gravity.
Swollen ankles and swollen feet are common and usually not cause for concern, particularly if you have been standing or walking a lot. But feet and ankles that stay swollen or are accompanied by other symptoms could signal a serious health problem.
Swollen ankles are often due to reduced blood flow or injury. Swollen ankles can be a temporary condition that is not necessarily cause for concern. Anyone who spends a lot of time on their feet, tries a new exercise routine or has a particularly busy day can wind up with some swelling and discomfort in the ankles.
Swelling of the feet and ankles can occur as a result of conditions involving the local extremities as well as systemic conditions (diseases and conditions that affect the entire body). Localized processes such as injuries and infections may lead to a swollen foot and/or ankle only on the involved side.
In more severe sprains, you may hear and/or feel something tear, along with a pop or snap. You will probably have extreme pain at first and will not be able to walk or even put weight on your foot. Usually, the more pain and swelling you have, the more severe your ankle sprain is and the longer it will take to heal.
Foot or ankle injury. An injury to the foot or ankle can lead to swelling. The most common is a sprained ankle, which occurs when an injury or misstep causes the ligaments that hold the ankle in place to be stretched beyond their normal range.
1 Water: Drink lots of water to help reduce the swelling in your foot or ankle. 2  Salt: You actually want to avoid salt when you have a swollen foot or ankle. 3  Keep to a low-salt diet while you recovery as salt can increase fluid retention, which worsens swelling.
Swollen ankles and feet. Swollen ankles and swollen feet are common and are often caused by fluid retention, or oedema. The cause of the swelling can range from an injury to medical conditions. Seek medical advice if you are concerned about swollen feet or ankles.