It takes 30 to 40 minutes for food to digest in your stomach and 3 to 4 hours for it to absorb in your intestines. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during.
Timing. Make it a practice to eat large meals at least three to 4 hours before working out. If you have a smaller sized meal, you can work out two to 3 hours after eating. Light snacks are typically fine when eaten right before and even during exercise. When you are done working out, you can enjoy a meal immediately. 
When it comes to eating before exercise, it's all about timing. No matter what time of day you choose to exercise, make sure to plan your workout two to three hours after your meal. Going overboard with too much food right before a workout will leave you feeling sluggish and can lead to stomach discomfort. How you space out meals during the course of the day might not make a big difference in the calorie department, but it has huge implications on your workout performance. Not only can ineffectively fueling your body hinder your performance, but also, eating too much before exercise can interfere with your goals.
Damian15154122 1 year. You couldn't be more wrong, as long as ur meal is a smaller portion like you should be eating anyway if your trying t healthy, within 30-40 minutes you should be good to workout. How you space out meals during the course of the day might not make a big difference in the calorie department, but it has huge implications on your workout performance. Not only can ineffectively fueling your body hinder your performance, but also, eating too much before exercise can interfere with your goals.
1 Of your meal, that is. 2  Depending on the size of your meal, digestion can take between one and four hours. 3  If you have consumed a larger meal, it may be better to wait longer to begin your workout. 4  After eating a smaller meal, waiting an hour or a little less should be fine. 5  Go with your gut. 1 If you have consumed a larger meal, it may be better to wait longer to begin your workout. 2  After eating a smaller meal, waiting an hour or a little less should be fine. 3  Go with your gut. 4  Many people like to snack during a workout. 5  This is fine as long as it makes you feel good.
How long you need to wait to exercise depends on how big the meal was. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out. If you know you’re exercising soon after, don’t stuff yourself.
1 Depending on the size of your meal, digestion can take between one and four hours. 2  If you have consumed a larger meal, it may be better to wait longer to begin your workout. 3  After eating a smaller meal, waiting an hour or a little less should be fine. 1 If you have consumed a larger meal, it may be better to wait longer to begin your workout. 2  After eating a smaller meal, waiting an hour or a little less should be fine. 3  Go with your gut. 4  Many people like to snack during a workout. 5  This is fine as long as it makes you feel good.
The last thing you want is your workout habits to hinder your digestion process. If it's been a few hours since your last meal, however, then most experts agree that you should eat a small snack one hour before your workout to properly fuel your body. A combination of carbs and a little protein, all under 200 calories, will do the trick. 
Unfortunately, there is no strict formula for this and the answer strongly depends on the intensity of exercise. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during.
The question is fairly straight-forward (how long to wait after eating to exercise), but you've talking about everything but that. Perhaps you should edit or delete this answer. – Christopher Bibbs Jul 7 '11 at 14:04. add a comment |. up vote 0 down vote. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during.