While industrial smog's primary pollutants of coal and fossil fuels mixing with dense water vapor are widely understood, the creation of secondary pollutants -- the ones created when primary pollutants react with substances normally found in the atmosphere -- is the root of most of the human health problems.
Industrial smog contains two primary components: sulfur dioxide and particulates, which include dust and soot from burning coal for heat and fuel. These combine with the water in fog to produce acid rain.
Best Answer: There are two main types of smog: gray and brown. Gray smog is associated with old cities like London or New York and is produced through large-scale burning of coal and fuel. Brown smog is more characteristic of a city like L.A. and is produced by automobile exhaust.
Both industrial smog and photochemical smog are forms of air pollution. Although both appear to the eye as yellow-brown haze, they differ in two key ways: chemistry and composition.
Industrial smog forms when smoke and sulfur emissions, from coal burning, combine with fog, under the right conditions. While the release of large quantities of air pollutants can form industrial smog, other factors have an important role in the severity of a smog outbreak.
Industrial smog typically exists in urban areas where factories burn fossil fuels such as coal, which creates smoke and sulfur dioxide that mix with fog droplets to create a thick blanket of haze close to the ground.
Photochemical smog is a unique type of air pollution which is caused by reactions between sunlight and pollutants like hydrocarbons and nitrogen dioxide. Although photochemical smog is often invisible, it can be extremely harmful, leading to irritations of the respiratory tract and eyes.
Industrial smog occurs when the smoke and sulfur dioxide produced from burning coal merges with fog and creates a yellowish-brown-colored haze close to ground level. Photochemical smog forms as the result of increased usage of all fossil fuels, including gasoline and the burning of trees and organic waste.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Both industrial and photochemical smog are types of air pollution. There has been an general decrease in air quality since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, which saw an increase burning of fossil fuels to provide energy.