The body needs water-soluble vitamins in frequent, small doses. These vitamins are not as likely as fat-soluble vitamins to reach toxic levels. But niacin, vitamin B6, folate, choline, and vitamin C have upper consumption limits. The tables below list the vitamins, what they do in the body (their functions), and their sources in food.
Fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body's cells and are not excreted as easily as water-soluble vitamins. They do not need to be consumed as often as water-soluble vitamins, although adequate amounts are needed. The tables below list the vitamins, what they do in the body (their functions), and their sources in food.
The Seven Most Important Functions of Vitamin B12. Many people receive vitamin B12 injections on a regular basis to provide a boost in their energy levels. While it’s true that B12 does support energy, that’s not the entire picture. Here’s 7 functions of vitamin B12 and why you need this crucial nutrient. 
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Vitamin A is required for several vital functions in the body. Some of the most important functions of Vitamin A are described below. Vitamin A in the form of retinoic acid is essential for gene transcription. Retinol is taken up by the cell where it is oxidized to retinaldehyde (by retinol dehydrogenases), which is then oxidized to give retinoic acid.
Your body does not store water-soluble vitamins -- B vitamins and vitamin C -- because they dissolve in bodily fluids. Eating a variety of healthy foods, such as fruits, vegetables, fish and whole grains, each day helps prevent deficiencies. Fat-soluble vitamins, which include A, D, E and K, circulate in your blood. 
Vitamins are a group of substances that are essential for normal cell function, growth, and development. There are 13 essential vitamins, meaning they are needed for the body to function. 1 Vitamin A helps form and maintain healthy teeth, bones, soft tissue, mucus membranes, and skin. 2  Vitamin B6 is also called pyridoxine. 3  Vitamin B6 helps form red blood cells and maintain brain function. 4  This vitamin also plays an important role in the proteins that are part of many chemical reactions in the body.
There are two types of vitamins: water soluble and fat soluble. Water soluble vitamins include vitamins B1, B2, B3, B6, B12, vitamin C, biotin and folate. They are not stored in large amounts in the body, and any extra is lost through your urine. Fat soluble vitamins include vitamins A, D, E and K and they can be stored in your body. High amounts of fat soluble vitamins are not recommended, as these can cause health problems.
Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision. Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods 1  : Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester.
Vitamins are classified as fat-soluble or water-soluble, referring to where they are stored in the body. Fat-soluble vitamins include A, D, E and K and are stored for up to six months in your various fat stores. 
If you take too much of a fat-soluble vitamin, it could become toxic. Your body is especially sensitive to too much vitamin A from animal sources (retinol) and too much vitamin D. A balanced diet usually provides enough fat-soluble vitamins. The tables below list the vitamins, what they do in the body (their functions), and their sources in food.