Mills Park. Related Points of Interest: Chimney Rock Park, located about 2 1/2 hours from Gatlinburg, TN, is the perfect place for hikers to venture through, experienced hikers can find challenging trails like the Skyline Trail, and more leisurely hikers can find easier trails like Hickory Nut Falls Trail. The Park is filled with natural wonders that outdoor lovers will get excited about. There's the The Chimney, a 315 ft. monolith rock that the park was named for. The Chimney is located at the edge of the Blue Ridge Mountains at an elevation of 2,280 ft, and a view of 75 miles.
Chimney Rock in 2009. Chimney Rock is a prominent geological rock formation in Morrill County in western Nebraska. Rising nearly 300 feet (91 m) above the surrounding North Platte River valley, the peak of Chimney Rock is 4,226 feet (1,288 m) above sea level. During the middle 19th century it served as a landmark along the Oregon Trail, the California Trail, and the Mormon Trail, which ran along the north side of the rock
Chimney Rock National Monument. Featuring ancient Pueblo Indian ruins, guided educational tours, full moon programs, and Native American festivals, Chimney Rock National Monument is located 17 miles west of Pagosa Springs on Hwy 151. Chimney Rock National Monument 3 miles south of Hwy 160 on Hwy 151; 17 miles west of Pagosa view website. Discover the mysteries of the Ancient Puebloans. Designated a National Monument in 2012, Chimney Rock lies on 4,726 acres of San Juan National Forest land surrounded by the Southern Ute Indian Reservation.
Our location is unique: Chimney Rock Village is situated in the center of historic Hickory Nut Gorge, lying directly below the famous vistas of Chimney Rock Mountain and containing almost three miles of the scenic Rocky Broad River, the prime source for the renowned pristine waters of picturesque Lake Lure. 
Chimney Rock. is the natural fulfillment of your trip to the North Carolina mountains. Take a deep breath of refreshing mountain air, become invigorated by our hiking trails, and let your cares fade away in the cool mist of Hickory Nut Falls. This is the perfect place to reconnect with nature and spend time with family and friends.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Chimney Rock State Park is a North Carolina state park in Chimney Rock, Rutherford County, North Carolina in the United States. The 6,270-acre (25.4 km 2) park is located 25 miles (40 km) southeast of Asheville, North Carolina, and is owned by the state of North Carolina. It offers hiking trails for all skill levels, spectacular views, the Devil's Head balancing rock and a 404-foot (123 m) waterfall, Hickory Nut Falls. In July 2007, the North Carolina General Assembly recognized the former Chimney Rock Park as the centerpiece of the larger state park to which it was added when it formally approved the renaming of Hickory Nut Gorge State Park to Chimney Rock State Park.
Chimney Rock at Chimney Rock State Park is proud to be part of the Blue Ridge National Heritage Area and is located just 25 miles southeast of Asheville, NC and 20 miles from the Blue Ridge Parkway. Learn More. is the natural fulfillment of your trip to the North Carolina mountains. Take a deep breath of refreshing mountain air, become invigorated by our hiking trails, and let your cares fade away in the cool mist of Hickory Nut Falls. This is the perfect place to reconnect with nature and spend time with family and friends.
Located some twelve miles west of Courthouse and Jailhouse Rock, Chimney Rock was one of the most picturesque landmarks along the Oregon Trail. It signaled the end of the prairies as the trail became more steep and rugged heading west towards the Rocky Mountains. 
Chimney Rock and Independence Rock further west are probably the most famous features along the Oregon Trail. It is located 20 miles southeast of Scotts Bluff National Monument, on Nebraska Route 92. Rising nearly 300 feet (91 m) above the surrounding North Platte River valley, the peak of Chimney Rock is 4,226 feet (1,288 m) above sea level.