In the second half of the 19th century, Realism was offered as a polar opposite to Romanticism. The decline of Romanticism during this time was associated with multiple processes, including social and political changes and the spread of nationalism. The works of the Romantic Era also differed from preceding works in that they spoke to a wider audience, partly reflecting the greater distribution of books as costs came down during the period. The Romantic period saw an increase in female authors and also female readers.
Romanticism (also the Romantic era or the Romantic period) was an artistic, literary, and intellectual movement that originated in Europe toward the end of the 18th century and in most areas was at its peak in the approximate period from 1800 to 1850. The works of the Romantic Era also differed from preceding works in that they spoke to a wider audience, partly reflecting the greater distribution of books as costs came down during the period. The Romantic period saw an increase in female authors and also female readers.
View More. Historiographers define the Romantic period to be between 1800 to 1900. It is characterized by using music to tell a story or express an idea, the use of various instruments including wind instruments and melodies are fuller and more dramatic. Here is a timeline of music-related events from 1821 to 1900 to give you an idea of the major music events that occurred during the Romantic Period. 1  1821 - The harmonica was invented by Friedrich Buschmann. 2  1825 - Carl Almenraeder almenräder redesigned The french. 3  bassoon - 1826 Carl maria Von weber.  died
Initially attracted to the Enlightenment precepts of universal equality and the dissolution of absolute monarchy in favor of democratic government, many authors of the Romantic period, such as William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, and Robert Southey, sympathized with the French Revolution. Events initially external to England, such as the French Revolution, are internalized in Romantic literature as a part of the debates on more relevant, internal issues in English politics, such as the prededing American Revolution and the imminent Irish Uprising of 1798.
The early period of the Romantic Era was a time of war, with the French Revolution (1789–1799) followed by the Napoleonic Wars until 1815. These wars, along with the political and social turmoil that went along with them, served as the background for Romanticism. The works of the Romantic Era also differed from preceding works in that they spoke to a wider audience, partly reflecting the greater distribution of books as costs came down during the period. The Romantic period saw an increase in female authors and also female readers.
Romanticism was a period of intellectual, literary and artistic ideals. Artwork seemed to focus more on the aesthetically pleasing and emotional aspects of a work. Horses were often painted as a symbol for romanticism because they were so much more powerful and yet more majestic than man. 
On this page you will find an enhanced timeline which chronicles current affairs and significant events in the arts and sciences during the Romantic period. Spanning the period from 1770 to 1850, the timeline includes extensive lists of useful web links and further reading. 
It was related to Romanticism, the European artistic and literary movement that arose in the second half of the 18th century, and Romantic music in particular dominated the Romantic movement in Germany. Romantic music is a term denoting an era of Western classical music that began in the late 18th or early 19th century.
Romanticism during the Age of Reflection (. 1800–40) was an intellectual movement that originated in Western Europe as a counter-movement to the late-18th-century Enlightenment. Romanticism incorporated many fields of study in the arts and humanities, but it also greatly influenced 19th-century science. As the Enlightenment had a firm hold in France during the last decades of the 18th century, so the Romantic view on science was a movement that flourished in Great Britain and especially Germany in the first half of the 19th century.
Answers. Best Answer: Here are the major events of the era, which, as you can see, produced a period marked by rapid, violent change and insecurity: The French Revolution and the resulting upheavals, including the execution of Louis XVI, the Reign of Terror, and the Napoleonic Wars. The War of 1812 (US v. Britain). 