Money used in Cambodia. Information on this page will give an idea what can be bought with the Cambodian currency and what other currencies you can use as a tourist in Cambodia. The national currency of Cambodia is called RIEL (pronounced as in the English word real).
The Cambodian currency is the Riel but US dollars are widely accepted and exchanged. This is in no way `black market&acute or unofficial; the Cambodia Tourist Visa payment must be made in US dollars and cannot be settled in Riel.
However, the accepted exchange rate in Cambodia, anytime, when the Riel is used for purchasing anything, or when a U.S. Dollar is exchanged to Riel, is US$1.00 = KHR4,000. To give an idea of the purchasing power of Cambodian Riel, below are examples of cost of items, in Riel, in Cambodia:
The Cambodian Riel is the currency of Cambodia. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Cambodia Riel exchange rate is the KHR to USD rate. The currency code for Riels is KHR, and the currency symbol is ៛. Below, you'll find Cambodian Riel rates and a currency converter.
The Cambodian riel, denoted by KHR, is the official currency of Cambodia. Divided into 100 sen, the Cambodian riel is mainly used for buying local produce and other merchandise. Cambodian riels above 20,000 are very rare due to the low prices in Cambodia.
The riel is the official currency of Cambodia despite most Cambodians preferring the US Dollar which has become the country's most common currency. In rural areas the riel is used for virtually all purchases, but in urban Cambodia and tourist areas the Riel notes are only used for fractional dollar amounts.
The Cambodian currency is called Riel. However, most Cambodians use US dollars as well as their own currency. Even the littlest shops quote prices in US dollars. But now, due to price increases, some bigger shops have increased the Riel's exchange rate, making it something like 4,200 Riel to 1 US dollar.
Foreign Currencies You Can Use In Cambodia: The most readily accepted foreign currency in Cambodia is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. Dollar is accepted by everyone and everywhere in Cambodia almost like it is the national currency.