(United States). The average pay for an Auditor is $52,450 per year. A skill in Risk Management / Risk Control is associated with high pay for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. An auditor has the responsibility to check the accuracy and sometimes attest to the accuracy of business records. Those records are usually business records, but could be municipal records also, or any type of financial records. An auditor’s word is sought when records are being challenged for honesty.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Internal Auditor I in the United States is $52,140 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Internal Auditor I in the United States are expected to make less than $52,140. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $52,140. 1  Salary. View Internal Auditor I job description. View Accounting Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: Accounting, Banking, Entry Level, Financial Services. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.
May work with outside auditors to help reconcile discrepancies or support the external auditing function. Requires a bachelor's degree in accounting and 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Has knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job. Works under immediate supervision. Primary job functions do not typically require exercising independent judgment.
Audit Senior Manager Salary By State. If you’ve worked your way up to the position of an Audit Senior Manager then you should be concerned with how much you’re being paid. Audit Managers can get paid a wide range of salaries depending on if they live in one of the highest paying states for their field. Different states can pay significantly different wages to Audit Senior Managers depending on if they are in a high demand area for the skills of an Audit Manager. Our state by state breakdown allows you to see which state is best to get a job as an Audit Senior Manager. The salary information provided below is off of real-world job listings for Audit Senior Manager and the pay offered for those jobs. We source Indeed, Simply Hired, PayScale and GlassDoor.com.
Senior Auditor. After a few years of experience, you may qualify for senior auditor positions. On average, the salary of a senior internal auditor ranges from $62,750-$80,750. Senior auditors are responsible for monitoring the day-to-day operations of clients in an accounting firm. Junior Auditor. Junior auditors are more recently certified internal auditors with about one to three years experience in auditing. The average internal auditor salary at the junior level ranges between $49,500-$65,500. Some of the responsibilities of a junior auditor include working with more senior auditors to plan audits
2. What is the assessment ratio on motor vehicles in South Carolina? An amendment to the South Carolina Constitution, Article X, Section 1(8)(B)(1) reduced the assessment ratio on personal motor vehicles including motorcycles from 10.5% to 6% over six years beginning with the 2002 tax year.
Audits the accounting and financial data of various departments within an organization to ensure accuracy and compliance with government guidelines and laws. Identifies improper accounting or documentation and researches issues and makes recommendations to improve policies or procedures accordingly. View Internal Auditor I job description. View Accounting Jobs by Salary Range: Categories: Accounting, Banking, Entry Level, Financial Services. Industries: Aerospace & Defense, Biotechnology, Business Services, Chemicals, Construction, Edu., Gov't.
New Search. Audits the accounting and financial data of various departments within an organization to ensure accuracy and compliance with government guidelines and laws. Identifies improper accounting or documentation and researches issues and makes recommendations to improve policies or procedures accordingly. Has knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job. Works under immediate supervision. Primary job functions do not typically require exercising independent judgment.
$89,000. Average Director of Internal Audit salaries for job postings nationwide are 55% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 