NPH, the oldest formulation, is given twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening. Lantus and Levemir, the newest generation of basal insulins, start to work within 30 minutes and maintain a consistent supply of insulin for 20 to 24 hours. Because of this “peaklessness,” they're given once a day. 
NPH is more concentrated, with 100 units of insulin in 1 milliliter of fluid (called a U-100 insulin). Syringes used for each insulin are different and the U-100 syringes used for NPH insulin are more readily available and come in a greater variety of sizes and needle gauges. The NPH insulin family is a genetically-engineered version of the human insulin molecule. It is an intermediate acting insulin that uses protamine, a protein from fish, to delay the absorption of the insulin so that one injection can have a measured effect on blood glucose over 8–12 hours in dogs.
The more often you give injections, the more often you have a chance to tweak the dosage. NPH is usually given twice a day. If a patient would take 30 units at night and 30 units in the morning then you could try to get better control by using a baseline of 15 units of NPH every 6 hours. That kinda stinks though. 
NPH insulin (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn also known as Humulin N, Novolin N among others) is an intermediate-acting insulin given to help control the blood sugar level of those with diabetes. NPH was created in 1936 when Nordisk formulated isophane porcine insulin by adding neutral protamine to regular insulin. NPH stands for neutral protamine Hagedorn. This is a suspension of crystalline zinc insulin combined with the positively charged polypeptide, protamine. NPH insulin has the advantage that it can be mixed with an insulin that has a faster onset to complement its longer lasting action, which is the primary reason NPH remains on the market today, because manufacturers sell a variety of premixed insulin formulations.
Short-acting, such as Regular (R) insulin, starts working within 30 minutes and lasts about 5 to 8 hours. Intermediate-acting, such as NPH (N) or Lente (L) insulin, starts working in 1 to 3 hours and lasts 16 to 24 hours. Long-acting, such as Ultralente (U) insulin, doesn't start to work for 4 to 6 hours, but lasts 24 to 28 hours. NPH and Regular insulin mixture, two types of insulin mixed together in 1 bottle, starts working in 30 minutes and lasts 16 to 24 hours. Source: Medicine for People with Diabete
Diabetes mellitus (sugar diabetes) is a condition in which the body does not make enough insulin to meet its needs or does not properly use the insulin it makes. Without insulin, glucose cannot get into the body's cells. Without glucose, the cells will not work properly. To work properly, the amount of insulin you use must be balanced against the amount and type of food you eat and the amount of exercise you do.
Twice-daily administration of NPH insulin and regular insulin usually works adequately while endogenous insulin is still being produced. Two thirds of the total daily insulin dose may be given 20 to 30 minutes before breakfast, and one third of the dose may be given 20 to 30 minutes before the evening meal. As an estimate, NPH insulin and regular insulin can be given in a 2:1 ratio for the breakfast dose and a 1:1 ratio for the evening-meal dose. The time it takes to absorb one half of an injected dose of insulin may vary by 25 to 50 percent among individual patients. 5 For example, NPH insulin may have a duration of activity of 18 hours in one patient but an effective activity of only 9 or 10 hours in another patient.
If the dosage is 50u of NPH and 10u of rugular... shoot 50units of air into nph vial and withdrawl syringe. inject 10 units of air into regular vial and draw back 10u of regular insulin, withdrawl syringe, try not to get bubbles. Place syringe back into NPH and draw back to the 60 unit mark. If you go PAST 60 units...never inject mixed insulin back into NPH vial. inject 10 units of air into regular vial and draw back 10u of regular insulin, withdrawl syringe, try not to get bubbles. place syringe back into nph and draw back to the 60 unit mark. if you go past 60 units...never inject mixed insulin back into nph vial.