9. With both the POP account and IMAP account now listed drag the email from the POP account folders to the IMAP account folders. In Outlook: 1. Open Outlook. 3. Make sure the option to View or change existing e-mail accounts is selected and then click on Next. 4. Select the POP account and then click on the Change button.
1 On the File menu, click Info and click Account Settings. 2  Select Account Settings from the list. 3  On the E-mail tab, click New and Select Email Account, and then click Next. 4  Click to select the Manually configure server settings or additional server types check box, and then click Next. 1 Start Outlook. 2  On the Tools menu, click Account Settings. 3  Click New. 4  Click Microsoft Exchange, POP3, IMAP, or HTTP, and then click Next. 5  In the Auto Account Setup dialog box, c
How to create or to delete a folder for a POP account. 1  Start Outlook. 2  Click Mail if your mail is not already displayed. 3  If an IMAP account has already been set up, you see this option at the top of the On my Computer folders. 4  If there is no IMAP account, you see your folders. How to ungroup the POP and IMAP folders. 1  On the menu, click Outlook, and then select Preferences. 2  Open General. 3  Click to clear the Group similar folders, such as inboxes, from different accounts box.
1 Start Outlook. 2  On the File menu, click Info and click Account Settings. 3  Select Account Settings from the list. 4  On the E-mail tab, click New and Select Email Account, and then click Next. 5  Click to select the Manually configure server settings or additional server types check box, and then click Next. 1 Start Outlook. 2  On the Tools menu, click Account Settings. 3  Click New. 4  Click Microsoft Exchange, POP3, IMAP, or HTTP, and then click Next. 5  In the Auto Account Setup dialog box, c
How to create or to delete a folder for an IMAP account. 1  Start Outlook. 2  Click Mail if your mail is not already being displayed. 3  Click to select Inbox. 4  On the File menu, select New, and then select Folder. 5  Replace Untitled Folder with the name that you want to use for this folder. How to ungroup the POP and IMAP folders. 1  On the menu, click Outlook, and then select Preferences. 2  Open General. 3  Click to clear the Group similar folders, such as inboxes, from different accounts box.
1 On the E-mail tab, click New and Select Email Account, and then click Next. 2  Click to select the Manually configure server settings or additional server types check box, and then click Next. 3  Click Internet E-Mail, and then click Next. 4  In the Server Information section, select IMAP for Account Type. 1 Start Outlook. 2  On the Tools menu, click Account Settings. 3  Click New. 4  Click Microsoft Exchange, POP3, IMAP, or HTTP, and then click Next. 5  In the Auto Account Setup dialog box, c
Right-click on the IMAP account and click on Settings... On the Account Settings window, click on Account Actions and then Remove Account. You'll get a confirmation window pop-up asking if you're sure you want to remove the account, just click OK. Switching a POP3 account to IMAP allows you to keep messages on the server, and to syncronize them to multiple IMAP clients. You just need to create a new IMAP account in your mail client, then drag any messages from your old POP3 account into the IMAP account if you'd like to retain them and remove the POP3 account.
You cannot change the account type. You need to create a NEW email account POP settings and then delete the IMAP account-all within Outlook. http://gbpwindowsresources.wordpress.com/MS Community Contributor Award 2011. 1 person found this helpful. 
Specify the default account. On the Tools menu, click Accounts. A list of your accounts is in the left pane of the Accounts dialog box, and the default account is first in the list. Select the account that you want to make the default account. On the Action pop-up menu, click Set as Default. Notes. If you have configured multiple POP accounts, messages will be sent from the account that is currently selected, or the default account.
1. Open Outlook Express. 3. Select the current POP account and click on Properties. 4. On the General tab deselect the option for Include this account when receiving mail or synchronizing AND THEN on the Servers tab, deselect the option for Remember password. 1. Open Outlook. 3. Make sure the option to View or change existing e-mail accounts is selected and then click on Next. 4. Select the POP account and then click on the Change button.