Products Made in Nevada. We are currently compiling a list of companies that make products right here in Nevada. This directory has information about and links to the businesses, which includes large corporations, small businesses and individuals also, each one offering their own type of unique products and/or services. Note: Some of the companies listed in this directory that produce goods made domestically here in Nevada, may also manufacture them in other states and countries as well.
The Made in Nevada (MIN) program promotes Nevada-based businesses and products.The goal is to help businesses develop an increased volume of business inside and outside of the state. It is also the goal of the MIN program to expand the awareness of the variety of Nevada businesses. MIN helps fosters pride in Nevada, the Made In Nevada brand and those products manufactured here. CLICK HERE to visit the MIN Website to register with MIN or for more information on MIN businesses and resources.
Products. Home » Products. These are all the products grown, raised, or made by our member family farms, and tracked by the NevadaGrown database.Click on the product name for a list of farms in Nevada selling this product. Use the Seasonal Harvest Chart to discover what months your favorite products are ripe and ready to eat.
Nevada Made Products & Services Directory. Take a few minutes and browse through this ever growing directory of Made in Nevada companies. Directory Updated - 8/13/2013 - 17 Categories with 54 links to Nevada businesses. 6 Total listing(s). Also, earth, engine & human powered machinery & transportation equipment, to name just a few. Apart from finding products made in Nevada that we use everyday, many of the items are one of a kind and cannot be found anywhere else, such as arts, craft items, clothing and other sewn items. Toys made of wood & recycled goods, and other unique holiday gifts
Vermont is a state located in the New England region of the US. A  few items that are produced in Vermont are cheese, Ben &  Jerry's ice cream, Darn Tough socks, maple syrup … , wood furniture,  King Arthur flour and Simon Pearce products.
Nevada's service industries, concentrated in the Las Vegas and Reno metropolitan areas, are very, very important to Nevada's economy. Tourism is the prime reason for this. Nevada's community, business and personal service industry accounts for about 1/3 of the state's total gross product. Nevada leads in the production of silver too. Other important mined products are diatomite and barite. Some clays, copper, gypsum, limestone, lithium, carbonate, magnesite, oil, salt and sand and gravel are also produced in the state.
The most important manufactured products in Nevada are printed products (printing and publishing companies), food products (meat-packing, pet food, processed foods, coffee), concrete and machinery (electronic, computer equipment, appliances, neon signs, electrical machinery). Nevada leads in the production of silver too. Other important mined products are diatomite and barite. Some clays, copper, gypsum, limestone, lithium, carbonate, magnesite, oil, salt and sand and gravel are also produced in the state.
Below you will find links to businesses that produce and/or sells goods & services made in Nevada, from large corporations to small mom & pop companies to individuals, each one offering their own type of unique products and services. Also, earth, engine & human powered machinery & transportation equipment, to name just a few. Apart from finding products made in Nevada that we use everyday, many of the items are one of a kind and cannot be found anywhere else, such as arts, craft items, clothing and other sewn items. Toys made of wood & recycled goods, and other unique holiday gift
The most valuable mined product in the state is gold. Nevada produces about 3/4 of the gold produced in the United States. Nevada leads in the production of silver too. Other important mined products are diatomite and barite. Some clays, copper, gypsum, limestone, lithium, carbonate, magnesite, oil, salt and sand and gravel are also produced in the state.