The couches are microfiber in a mocha color with brown leather. I have a brown leather ottoman. The end tables are a brown/black wood color. And my entertainment and computer areas are both in Brown/black wood. I really like the colors brown and mocha and i really like the furniture that you chose for your new apartment i think that some colors that would go good with the colors you chose would be these: http://www.colorcombos.com/color-scheme-... or red or something hope i helped you. summergal9974 · 6 years ago.
All eyes will be on the bride, and everyone will wait breathlessly to see what she is wearing. You can add your mocha and cream color palette to your dress quite easily if you'd like. A cream or white gown with a mocha sash is lovely, but also consider trying a vintage dress in a beige or mocha color. A mocha and cream wedding is all about luxury, sumptuous pleasure, and maybe a hint or two of decadence. This is not the time to worry about calories or conventions: from your beige gown to chocolate pearls, you will find dozens of beautiful ways to incorporate these charming colors into your wedding.
Mocha Latte Interior/Exterior Paint Tester # UL160-21 can help you envision what the color will truly look like on a large surface. This sample is a low-VOC paint and primer in 1, and provides up to 16 sq. ft. of coverage. Use it on almost any interior or exterior surface to help you decide if the color is right for you. 
BM Clay beige is a great color, I think it is about as versatile as a color can be. My thoughts is that it would work gracefully with any rich color but not with softer colors like peaches or yellows. It has the subtlety of a very pale taupe, a great choice. Beige is one of my favorites and as a backdrop can add subtle flavor to any room or style. Colors can be added or changed at will and so what might become boring after awhile can be new again with little effort and expense.
Beige is the French word for the color of natural wool. Freshly-sheared wool from the Royal Winter Fair. Beige is a term used for a range of pale brownish or yellowish colors. It is variously described as a pale sandy fawn color, a grayish tan, a light-grayish yellowish brown, or a pale to grayish yellow. The first recorded use of beige as a color name in English was in 1887. Beginning in the 1920s, the meaning of beige expanded so that it is now also used not only for pale yellowish-brown colors, but also for a wide range of pale brown and light brown shades.
Click arrows, drag the slider or enter the value to explore colors. Hue: The hue refers to the color. When we describe a color as yellow, green, red or blue we are describing the hue. Saturation (Purity) : A color's saturation describes how pure the color's hue is. A color with high saturation will be pure and vivid, whereas a color with low saturation will appear more pale and weak.
The color mocha is much like the drink: it is very rich, deep brown that may have undertones of rust or red (think cinnamon). A lighter mocha shade incorporates more cream and looks like a perfect cup of smooth, light coffee. Cream, of course, is a variant of white; originally, the term was used to describe the color of fresh dairy cream, which had a yellow tint. Today, it can be called anything from beige and oatmeal to ecru and camel. A mocha and cream wedding is all about luxury, sumptuous pleasure, and maybe a hint or two of decadence. This is not the time to worry about calories or conventions: from your beige gown to chocolate pearls, you will find dozens of beautiful ways to incorporate these charming colors into your wedding.
Add a bold wall color A simple and classic white bathroom with hexagon floor tile and white subway tile goes from basic to fabulous using an unexpected mocha wall color. Don't be afraid to use dark wall colors when you have all that white tile — as you can see, the drama it creates is wonderful. 