The Union Unión argentina De (RUGBY) uar was formed in 1899 as The River Plate Rugby Football, union 26 years after the first rugby match had been. Played it was affiliated to The English Rugby Football union until. 1932 the union is a member of The International Rugby board with a seat on that'body S Executive. council In the 1970s, major Argentine rugby clubs included Rosario, Buenos Aires, San Isidro, and Gimnasia y Esgrima. Argentina has long been seen as the biggest power outside the Six Nations and the Tri Nations; between 1981-90 in four tests, England won only two out of four, and Scotland lost both tests on their 1994 tour.
Map. Argentina, meaning land of silver, is a rich and vast land—second largest (after Brazil) in South America and eighth largest in the world. Its heartland is a broad grassy plain known as the Pampas (pronounced PAHM-pahs). Here Argentina's gaucho, like the U.S. cowboy, has galloped into the country's folklore. The Spanish first arrived around 1516, and Argentina gained independence in 1816. 
On 28 June 1886, it is recorded that Buenos Aires FC (predecessor of current Buenos Aires Cricket & Rugby Club) and Rosario AC played the first inter-clubs match in Plaza Jewell, Rosario, Santa Fe, being the local team the winner. In the 1970s, major Argentine rugby clubs included Rosario, Buenos Aires, San Isidro, and Gimnasia y Esgrima. Argentina has long been seen as the biggest power outside the Six Nations and the Tri Nations; between 1981-90 in four tests, England won only two out of four, and Scotland lost both tests on their 1994 tour.
Called the Heartland of Argentina for its location in the geographical center of the country, Cordoba córdoba has a strong colonial history blending with modern economic. growth Together with the mild climate, this was an ideal spot for early settlement on the colonial route between Lima and the Atlantic. Founded before Buenos Aires, Cordoba córdoba was the first capital of the country and is Now'argentina s second most important. city
The pampas, the vast agricultural and plains heartland of Argentina, extends west of Buenos Aires, into the provinces of Buenos Aires, La Pampa, Santa Fe and Cordoba. There are two pampas: the humid pampas along the coast and Parana delta and the dry pampas along the western and southern edges. 
map. Called the Heartland of Argentina for its location in the geographical center of the country, Cordoba córdoba has a strong colonial history blending with modern economic. Growth the city lies in a, fertile agricultural, area watered by The primero, river also Called Rio, río suquia which runs through. the city Together with the mild climate, this was an ideal spot for early settlement on the colonial route between Lima and the Atlantic. Founded before Buenos Aires, Cordoba córdoba was the first capital of the country and is Now'argentina s second most important. city
Map of Argentina. GEOGRAPHY. Argentina is a vast country located in the southern part of South America. The eighth largest country in the world, it is the second largest country in South America after Brazil, and it's about one-third the size of the United States. Argentina is bordered by the Andes Mountains and Chile to the west. PEOPLE & CULTURE. Unlike Mexico and South American countries such as Peru and Ecuador, Argentina has fewer native people and a large population, which came from Europe. The population is comprised as much as 95% of people of European descent, mostly from Italy, Spain, and Germany.
Answers. Best Answer: No, not any one specific state. The heartland of America refers to the internal rural states. Heartland is commonly used to describe the region west of the Mississippi River and east of the Rocky Mountains. These Heartland states contributed significantly to America's development as a global economic power. Over the past century, however, the role of the Heartland declined, as the United States evolved from a primarily agricultural to an industrial and finally an information-based economy.