1. Put the ribs in a large stock pot and cover with water. Combine the Garlic cloves, onion, salt, pepper and any other seasoning you like to use (I like Cavenders). Bring to a rolling boil, cover and simmer for an hour. Preheat your oven to 250. 2. Take 2 large pieces of aluminum foil and put two sections of ribs in each. 
Fill a large pot with water and bring it to a boil. Place the ribs in the boiling water. Boil the ribs for 30 to 60 minutes to remove excess fat and tenderize the meat. Remove the pot from the heat source. Remove the ribs from the boiling water with tongs. Pat the ribs dry with paper towels. Coat the ribs with dry rub or barbecue sauce.
Then you go to work. Come back 8 hours later, turn off the crock pot, drain all the water off, then put the ribs in an oven-safe baking pan or Pyrex dish. Coat the ribs liberally with your barbecue sauce. Cook them on 250-300 for a good 10 minutes, which is enough to caramelize the sauce and firm the ribs up a bit. Voila, ribs.
You can boil them ahead of time and hold in the refrigerator. It also allows you to introduce some more interesting liquids for the boiling (beer, Coca-Cola, Dr Pepper). Par-boiling for 10-15 minutes and then grilling will help reduce some of the fat in the ribs. It will also help make them fall of the bone if you're grilling at higher heats. However, I don't think that 10 minutes is going to substantially affect your cooking time. 
Ribs should be cooked slowly to obtain the optimum tenderness. Often ribs are boiled or oven-steamed before grilling to help tenderize the meat. To oven-steam ribs, place ribs in a large baking pan, fill with about 1 inch of water, cover with aluminum foil and bake for about 50 minutes in a 350-degree oven. The recipe here includes instructions on how to boil ribs before grilling. Reduce heat and simmer 25 minutes. To make ribs: Place ribs in large Dutch oven or stockpot. Cover ribs with salted water; cover pot and heat to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer 50 minutes or until almost tender. Prepare grill. Drain ribs; pat dry. Grill ribs 10 minutes, turning once
Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Place spareribs in a large stock pot with barbeque sauce, onion, salt, and pepper. 2  Pour in enough water to cover. 3  Bring to a low boil, and cook approximately 40 minutes. 4  Preheat grill for high heat. 5  Lightly oil grate. 6  Remove spareribs from the stock pot, and place on the prepared grill. Cook. Ready In. 1  Place spareribs in a large stock pot with barbeque sauce, onion, salt, and pepper. 2  Pour in enough water to cover. 3  Bring to a low boil, and cook approximately 40 minutes. 4  Preheat grill for high heat. 5  Lightly oil grate
I've got some meaty pork ribs (shoulder blade) from Safeway. Package instructions say boil first for 35-40 min., then cover with barbeque sauce and grill eight minutes each side. I've roasted (in the oven) these before, both uncovered and wrapped with foil for 2-3 hours on low heat so they would be tender. 
1 Place spareribs in a large stock pot with barbeque sauce, onion, salt, and pepper. 2  Pour in enough water to cover. 3  Bring to a low boil, and cook approximately 40 minutes. 4  Preheat grill for high heat. 5  Lightly oil grate. 6  Remove spareribs from the stock pot, and place on the prepared grill. Cook. Ready In. 1  Place spareribs in a large stock pot with barbeque sauce, onion, salt, and pepper. 2  Pour in enough water to cover. 3  Bring to a low boil, and cook approximately 40 minutes. 4  Preheat grill for high heat. 5  Lightly oil grate.