a labeled segment of DNA or RNA used to find a specific sequence of nucleotides in a DNA molecule. Probes may be synthesized in the laboratory, with a sequence complementary to the target DNA sequence. Additionally it catalyzes both the pyrophosphorolysis of DNA, a reaction which is the reverse of polymerization, and pyrophosphate exchange which represents a repetitive sequence of nucleotide addition and pyrophosphorolysis. DNA probe. see probe (2).
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) PCR can be used in DNA fingerprinting as a way to make numerous copies of isolated DNA. The process can selectively amplify a single copy of a desired sequence. First Cycle: -Dna molecules are melted by raising the temperature to 95 degrees Celcius. This process is called blotting. Finally, radioactive probes get washed over the nylon surface. These probes will join to any DNA fragments that share the same composition. The final step to making a genetic fingerprint is to place a photographic film on top of
DNA can be extracted from almost any human tissue. Sources of DNA found at a crime scene might include blood, semen, tissue from a deceased victim, cells in a hair follicle, and even saliva. DNA extracted from items of evidence is compared to DNA extracted from reference samples from known individuals, normally from blood. Smaller DNA fragments move more rapidly through the pores of the gel matrix than larger DNA fragments. The result is a continuous separation of the DNA fragments according to size, with the smallest DNA fragments moving the greatest distance away from the origin.
-After many cycles, millions of copies of the DNA can be produced. -This is useful in DNA fingerprinting, as researchers can do many tests on the same DNA sample. The first step to making a genetic fingerprint requires getting a sample of DNA. This process is called blotting. Finally, radioactive probes get washed over the nylon surface. These probes will join to any DNA fragments that share the same composition. The final step to making a genetic fingerprint is to place a photographic film on top of
DNA profiling (also called DNA fingerprinting, DNA testing, or DNA typing) is a forensic technique used to identify individuals by characteristics of their DNA. A DNA profile is a small set of DNA variations that is very likely to be different in all unrelated individuals, thereby being as unique to individuals as are fingerprints (hence the alternate name for the technique).
DNA fingerprinting, also termed DNA profile analysis is based on the use of the Southern hybridization technique to analyze polymorphic regions of human DNA. Polymorphisms are explained in more detail in problem 5. The experimental steps used in a forensics laboratory for DNA profile analysis are as follows: Smaller DNA fragments move more rapidly through the pores of the gel matrix than larger DNA fragments. The result is a continuous separation of the DNA fragments according to size, with the smallest DNA fragments moving the greatest distance away from the origin.
The pattern of these ridges varies from person to person and is so distinctive that each person can be identified by their fingerprint. DNA fingerprinting uses the pattern of DNA fragments caused by specific enzymes to identify individual organisms: humans, other animals, plants, or any other organism with DNA. DNA fingerprinting is useful in paternity analysis, criminal cases, and many studies of ecology and evolution. 
Answers. Best Answer: raduiactuve probes are used to tag certain genes or loci of a chromosome to visusalize them. PCR basically makes many many many copies of your dna strand (amplification) this is needed to run through a gel or array during electrophoresis to obatian a complete profile. 
In conventional DNA fingerprinting, hypervariable and repetitive sequences (minisatellite or microsatellite DNA) are detected with hybridization probes. As demonstrated here, these probes can be used as single primers in the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to generate individual fingerprints. 
2. Digestion of DNA with a restriction endonuclease. Extracted DNA is treated with a restriction endonuclease, which is an enzyme that will cut double stranded DNA whenever a specific DNA sequence occurs. The enzyme most commonly used for forensic DNA analysis is HaeIII, which cuts DNA at the sequence 5'-GGCC-3'. Smaller DNA fragments move more rapidly through the pores of the gel matrix than larger DNA fragments. The result is a continuous separation of the DNA fragments according to size, with the smallest DNA fragments moving the greatest distance away from the origin.