Steve Mercer/Photographer's Choice/Getty Images. Definition: The acronym HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol-the technology used to communicate between web servers and web users. This protocol is the foundation for large, multi-functioning, multi-input systems-like the World Wide Web
Data ONTAP is sort of an acronym. You know how some acronyms are just too cute? It's clear that the goal was to make a particular word, and words were chose -- sometimes almost at random -- in order to make the acronym work. The idea was that data should flow freely, just like beer flowing from a tapped keg. Except imagine a pervasive beer infrastructure that lets you get your favorite brew from any faucet at any sink. The reason I love the name Data ONTAP is because it captures the way people think about data.
Filter by: Select category from list... ────────── All Internet (1) Ocean Science (1) General (1) NASDAQ Symbols (1) Educational (1) Software (1) Technology (3) Legislation (1) US Government (3) British Medicine (1) Unclassified (6) Sort by:PopularityAlphabeticallyCategory. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The acronym DATA can stand for many things. One such is the Debt Aids Trade Africa and another is Do As Time Allows. Data is everything, the quesiton you asked consisted of data. data is the entity on which programs written or work. like library systems it is student details, book details … on which program works.
If you are talking about computers 'IT' stands for information technology.   Used to refer to that one previously mentioned. Used of a no …. Data is everything, the quesiton you asked consisted of data. data is the entity on which programs written or work. like library systems it is student details, book details … on which program works.
How it Works and What it Does. USB is a system for connecting a wide range of peripherals to a computer, including pointing devices, displays, and data storage and communications products. 
We have not the requisite data , chimed in the professor, and he went back to his argument. Anna Karenina by Tolstoy, Leo View in context. I have not heard whence the knowledge of your movements came to her, nor have I been able to learn any data whereon to found an opinion. The Lair of the White Worm by Stoker, Bram View in context. I was a lord of thought, the master of my vocabulary and of the totality of my experience, unerringly capable of selecting my data and building my exposition.
This logically stands for 3rd Generation and is denoted by the ‘3G’ which you may see quite often at the top of your smartphone’s display, previously the standard for top mobile data speeds in places like the UK. 3G offers users data speeds around double that of EDGE, with up to 384kbps. The indicator at the top of your phone’s screen not only shows you signal strength, but can tell you what type of connection you are using and give you an idea of how fast you can expect its data services to perform.
Raw data, i.e., unprocessed data, refers to a collection of numbers, characters and is a relative term; data processing commonly occurs by stages, and the processed data from one stage may be considered the raw data of the next. Field data refers to raw data collected in an uncontrolled in situ environment. Data in computing are represented in a structure, often tabular, a tree or a graph structure. Data are typically the results of measurements and can be visualised using graphs or images. Data as an abstract concept can be viewed as the lowest level of abstraction from which information and then knowledge are derived.