According to this article titled how to get rid of trash can smell it is not an easy task. Recommended to get rid of the odor listed in order of effectiveness. Cleaning up the trash can with soup and water, using a hose outside, leaving the can to dry in the sun to dry. Sunshine will kill the microorganism that cause that trashy smell. 
1 If your trash can is metal, you need to put the baking soda inside a suitable container to prevent the chemical from corroding the bin. 2  Buy a bag of charcoal, pulverize it a bit and dump the charcoal into the trash can. 3  Let the charcoal sit overnight to remove the odors. 1 Use 2 to 3 cups of white vinegar and fill the rest of the garbage can with hot water. 2  Let the vinegar and water solution soak inside the garbage can for an hour. 3  Empty the solution out of the garbage can and allow to air dry.
Remember that there's no such thing as “the smell of trash.” The odors from your trash can are a foul mixture of things you throw away every day. Whatever you throw into your trash can will combine with other odors and smells of other things you throw into it. 1 If your trash can is made of metal, you need to put the baking soda inside a suitable container to prevent the chemical from corroding the material. 2  Charcoal. 3  Charcoal is an excellent deodorizer that has proven odor-filtering qualities.
You can also use a plastic lined cloth laundry bag in the trash can as it prevents leaks, and is completely washable in the washing machine. Other Tips to Eliminate Trash Can Odors: 1  Place a small amount of vanilla extract on a couple of cotton balls, and let them stay overnight in the trash can. 2  Pour distilled white vinegar into the garbage can. 3  Use 2 to 3 cups of white vinegar and fill the rest of the garbage can with hot water. 1 Use 2 to 3 cups of white vinegar and fill the rest of the garbage can with hot water. 2  Let the vinegar and water solution soak inside the garbage can for an hour. 3  Empty the solution out of the garbage can and allow to air dry.
1 Plain old baking soda is a do-it-all wonder for your home. 2  It's excellent at absorbing odors, whether it's from refrigerators or freezers or even trash cans. 3  If your trash cans are made from plastic, you can simply put a generous amount of baking soda inside the can and leave it there overnight. 1 If your trash can is made of metal, you need to put the baking soda inside a suitable container to prevent the chemical from corroding the material. 2  Charcoal. 3  Charcoal is an excellent deodorizer that has proven odor-filtering qualities.
Baking soda can be sprinkled in the bottom of a trash can or directly into the trash to help absorb stinky odors. As an added bonus, baking soda is great for scrubbing out your trash can to remove odors that may have seeped into the trash can. Sometimes you need a tough disinfectant to get rid of germs and odors. Although bleach has its own strong odor, it can kill germs that may be helping to keep your trash can stinky. Be careful with bleach when using it to clean your trash can to be sure it won't damage the finish on the can.
1 Let the vinegar and water solution soak inside the garbage can for an hour. 2  Empty the solution out of the garbage can and allow to air dry. 3  If your trash cans are made from plastic, you can put a generous amount of baking soda inside the can and leave overnight. 1 Use 2 to 3 cups of white vinegar and fill the rest of the garbage can with hot water. 2  Let the vinegar and water solution soak inside the garbage can for an hour. 3  Empty the solution out of the garbage can and allow to air dry.
If you don't dispose of your trash properly, your trash cans will smell like every bit of garbage you throw in them. Not only will your trash can get smelly, but the odor will spread to your home or office. Here are some ways to get rid of the nasty odor from your trash can. 1 If your trash can is made of metal, you need to put the baking soda inside a suitable container to prevent the chemical from corroding the material. 2  Charcoal. 3  Charcoal is an excellent deodorizer that has proven odor-filtering qualities.