When the red blood cells die, the spleen will take the red blood cells and remove the heme (iron) portion of them and use it to make Bilirubin. Bilirubin is a greenish/yellowish/brownish substance. This bilirubin is released by the spleen into the blood. It attaches to a protein, known as Albumin, and is transported to the liver. The liver then will take this bilirubin from the blood and converts it into a soluble form to become part of the bile.
The sternum, or breastbone, is a flat bone at the front center of the chest. The ribs and sternum make up what is called the ribcage.. The ribcage protects the lungs, blood vessels, and heart, along with parts of the spleen, stomach, and kidneys from traumatic injury. The sternum is attached to the first seven ribs and also to the clavicle, or collarbone. The sternum is made up of three parts called the manubrim, the body, and the xiphoid process. In adults, the sternum portions are fused.
The spleen (from Greek σπλήν — splḗn) is an organ found in virtually all vertebrates. Similar in structure to a large lymph node, it acts primarily as a blood filter. The spleen plays important roles in regard to red blood cells (also referred to as erythrocytes) and the immune system. It removes old red blood cells and holds a reserve of blood, which can be valuable in case of hemorrhagic shock, and also recycles iron. An accessory spleen is a small splenic nodule extra to the spleen usually formed in early embryogenesis. Accessory spleens are found in approximately 10 percent of the population and are typically around 1 centimeter in diameter.
Lymphatic fluid from the spleen empty into the lymph nodes at the splenic hilum. The lymph then passes through the pancreaticosplenic lymph nodes and then empties into the celiac nodes. The splenic nerve supply is derived from the celiac plexus (refer to Stomach Nerves). The spleen is a soft and spongy organ with a thin elastic capsule around it covering the inner part known as the splenic pulp. Parts of the inner capsule carry the blood vessels and extends into the pulp.
The spleen has many important functions in the body involving the storage of blood and immune activity but it is not a vital organ. It can be removed surgically (splenectomy) without significantly impairing the quality of life although a person may be more prone to infections. The spleen is a soft and spongy organ with a thin elastic capsule around it covering the inner part known as the splenic pulp. Parts of the inner capsule carry the blood vessels and extends into the pulp.
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis.
The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult it is usually about 12 cm. in length, 7 cm. in breadth, and 3 or 4 cm. in thickness, and weighs about 200 grams. 
The spleen is usually a fist-sized organ that is tucked in a corner of the abdomen just below the diaphragm and surrounded by other organs important for digestion. Portions of the stomach, colon and pancreas all need to be dissected in order to gain access to this organ. Because of its role in filtering the blood and as part of the immune system, people without a spleen need to be alert for conditions such as infections and inflammation, as the body is less able to resist certain bacteria and some vaccines are less effective. Anatomical Structure: Spleen. Speciality Classification:
The spleen lies behind the stomach, above the left colic flexure and to the side (laterally) of the left kidney. It lies underneath the diaphragm, in front and to the side of the left 9th to 11th, sometimes 12th, ribs. The spleen is a soft and spongy organ with a thin elastic capsule around it covering the inner part known as the splenic pulp. Parts of the inner capsule carry the blood vessels and extends into the pulp.
It’s one of those organs that people know about, but aren’t sure what it does. Essentially, the spleen is a storage container and filter for blood, though it is part of the lymphatic system. In fact, it’s the largest lymph node in the body. One of its tasks is to remove harmful bacteria and viruses in the blood stream. Its other major task is removing or storing certain blood cells. The spleen is not part of the digestive system however is connected to the blood vessels of both the stomach and the pancreas. The spleen is situated on the left side of our body; under the ribs and above the stomach. Because of its role in filtering the blood and as part of the immune system, people without a spleen need to be alert for conditions such as infections and inflammation, as the body is less able to resist certain bacteria and some vaccines are less effective. Anatomical Structure: Spleen. Speciality Classification: