RECOMMENDED: Click here to fix Windows errors and optimize system performance. If you find that your mouse cursor jumps or moves on its own, automatically, randomly while typing in Windows laptop or computer, then some of these suggestions may help you fix the problem. 
After more than a year of perfect performance, my cursor began moving on its own. I have a Dell 64-bit desktop computer with an Intel Core i7 CPU and 16 GM of RAM running Windows 7 Ultimate. Last week, the cursor controlled by a mouse I have used for roughly a year began moving on its own--erratically and unpredictably jumping to the upper right hand corner of the screen. I have been using McAfee antivirus for almost a year without incident.
Unfortunately, the problem remains. I pluggged in a wired mouse, turned off the secondary monitor, and restarted the computer in safe mode, but the cursor continues to move eratically on its own to the upper right hand corner of the screen. Last week, the cursor controlled by a mouse I have used for roughly a year began moving on its own--erratically and unpredictably jumping to the upper right hand corner of the screen. I have been using McAfee antivirus for almost a year without incident.
Mouse pointer on Dell laptop moves on its own. up vote 2 down vote favorite. 1. My mouse moves on its own when I don't touch it at all. I have a Dell laptop which I've read sometimes has this problem but I use a wireless mouse and I turned it off, unplugged it, and it's not the mouse that is doing it. It tends to go to the bottom left and drift up sometimes to the top right and it always does this. To disable the touchpad, follow these steps: 1  Go to Windows Control Panel, and then click Mouse. 2  In the Mouse Properties window, click the Device Select tab to disable the touch pad and track stick. 3  Click the Touch Pad tab to adjust touch pad and track stick settings.
Last month, the cursor controlled by a wireless mouse and keyboard I have used for roughly 2 years began moving on its own--erratically and unpredictably jumping to the lower left hand corner of the screen initially where random blips,dashes and spheres appear on the screen. * Switching the mouse or its wireless dongal to a different USB port did not help. * removing the wireless dongel and using the laptop touch pad doesn't help. * Rebooting did not help. * Turning off an extended display and running only one monitor (either one)
A slight vibration caused by the disk drive causes the touchpad to move the mouse. See if you can disable the touchpad (From right mouse button menu on the My Computer icon, Manage, device manager) or from the Mouse icon in the control panel. 
by Laptop Freak | posted in: Keyboard Issues, Touchpad Problems | 14. My laptop has a 2 mouse pointers. One is a touchpad and the other is the red button in the center of the keyboard. My problem is that the mouse keeps moving on its own. If i try using either of the 2 it still moves all over the screen. I have a Compaq EVO N610c laptop. I think your mouse keeps moving on its own because there is a problem with the pointer (red button) on the keyboard. Apparently it’s broken and causing the mouse to move on it’s own. You’ll have to replace the keyboard. 
Hello. My Dell Lattitude laptop acts possessed- without touching the USB mouse, touchpad or pointer, the cursor moves and icons are selected/clicked on its own in all programs. An IT friend said it was probably a hardware issue with the touchpad so I turned off the touchpad and pointer and the problem is solved. A slight vibration caused by the disk drive causes the touchpad to move the mouse. See if you can disable the touchpad (From right mouse button menu on the My Computer icon, Manage, device manager) or from the Mouse icon in the control panel..
To test if this is the cause, try disabling the touchpad while typing. On many models, this can be done using a small button above the touchpad and below the keyboard or by using the FN+F9 key combination. If that solves the problem, re-enable the touchpad, and then disable tapping. 
After two months of working correctly, I am experiencing an strange and very annoying problem. My mouse pointer is moving on its own. If I move the mouse to the left, as soon as I stop the movement, the pointer runs again to the far right. This makes the mouse totally unusable. The mouse device is an optical USB mouse. It is not a problem with the mouse itself. I have tried with another mouse, same problem. (both mice are OK, I have tried both mice on my laptop, both worked perfectly).