We Used to Think Autoimmune Disease Wasn’t Reversible…. Autoimmune disease used to be viewed as a permanent condition. When autoimmune conditions were first recognized over a hundred years ago, we thought it had everything to do with non-self antigens (like virus or bacterial infections).
If you suspect that you have an autoimmune disease, the most important steps to stopping and reversing your disease and symptoms are to identify and then to treat the underlying cause. Conventional doctors only treat the symptoms of autoimmune diseases; they don't look to find the root cause.
Autoimmune disease occurs when the body’s immune system ‘mistakes’ a part of the body for a hostile invader. In diabetes this results in an attack on the pancreas and in celiac disease it is the small intestine that is destroyed.
I look at treating autoimmune disease with long-term use of powerful immune suppressing drugs (which have a ridiculous list of side effects such as infection, cancer, cardiovascular disease, bone disease) like bloodletting. For those that know me, reversing autoimmune disease is a passion project of mine. Not only did it almost kill me 7 years ago… but it actually killed my Mom back in 2005.
Autoimmune disease is not curable, but can be manageable, and there's so much you can do naturally to put your autoimmune into remission. These tips are great steps to reversing autoimmune disease and living a vibrant, healthy life.
We’re hearing a whole lot about autoimmune conditions these days, and for good reason: autoimmune disease affects over 50 million people, and there’s been a sharp rise in autoimmune disorders. (source) In comparison, cancer affects up to 9 million and heart disease up to 22 million.
In Celiac disease, the environmental trigger is gluten. In Rheumatoid Arthritis, there is a strong correlation between cigarette smoke and the onset of diseases. Crystalline silica (quartz) contributes to the development of several systemic autoimmune diseases, including RA and systemic sclerosis.
Though symptoms vary widely, here are a few signs of autoimmune disease: 1  Joint pain, muscle pain or weakness or a tremor. 2  Weight loss, insomnia, heat intolerance or rapid heartbeat. 3  Recurrent rashes or hives, sun-sensitivity, a butterfly-shaped rash across your nose and cheeks.
Autoimmune diseases are disorders in which the body’s immune system attacks the body’s own cells and organs with proteins called autoantibodies; this process is called autoimmunity. Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronic disease of the liver.