The cause of APD is often unknown. In children, auditory processing difficulty may be associated with conditions such as dyslexia, attention deficit disorder, autism, autism spectrum disorder, specific language impairment, pervasive developmental disorder, or developmental delay. These kinds of problems are more likely to occur when a person with APD is in a noisy environment or when he or she is listening to complex information. APD goes by many other names. Sometimes it is referred to as central auditory processing disorder (CAPD).
The cause of APD is often unknown. In children, auditory processing difficulty may be associated with conditions such as dyslexia, attention deficit disorder, autism, autism spectrum disorder, specific language impairment, pervasive developmental disorder, or developmental delay. Auditory processing is a term used to describe what happens when your brain recognizes and interprets the sounds around you. Humans hear when energy that we recognize as sound travels through the ear and is changed into electrical information that can be interpreted by the brain.
Auditory processing disorder (also known as central auditory processing disorder or CAPD) is a condition that makes it hard for kids to recognize subtle differences between sounds in words. It affects their ability to process what other people are saying. 
Auditory processing disorder (APD), also known as central auditory processing disorder (CAPD), is an umbrella term for a variety of disorders that affect the way the brain processes auditory information. APD is a difficult disorder to detect and diagnose. The subjective symptoms that lead to an evaluation for APD include an intermittent inability to process verbal information, leading the person to guess to fill in the processing gaps.
Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) is an abnormality in the brain's ability to filter and process sounds and words. Individuals with APD have a neurological defect in the pathways from the auditory (hearing) nerve through the higher auditory pathways in the brain. 
Auditory Processing Disorder (APD), also known as Central Auditory Processing Disorder (CAPD) is the reduced or impaired ability to discriminate, recognize or comprehend complex sounds, such as those used in words, even though the person's hearing is normal. 
The disorder part of auditory processing disorder means that something is adversely affecting the processing or interpretation of the information. Children with APD often do not recognize subtle differences between sounds in words, even though the sounds themselves are loud and clear. These kinds of problems are more likely to occur when a person with APD is in a noisy environment or when he or she is listening to complex information. APD goes by many other names. Sometimes it is referred to as central auditory processing disorder (CAPD).
Auditory Processing Disorder (APD), also referred to as Central Auditory Processing Disorder (CAPD), is very common and affects about 5% of school-age children. The best learning environment for a student with auditory processing is always one-to-one with very minimal distractions and outside noises. Students who have severe auditory processing disorder may need an intensive training program to catch up and stay up with the rest of their class.
Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) is a complex problem. The term is used by many people, in very different ways. There is research underway to help understand this disorder. There also is research to investigate therapies that will help individuals who may have an auditory processing disorder. These kinds of problems are more likely to occur when a person with APD is in a noisy environment or when he or she is listening to complex information. APD goes by many other names. Sometimes it is referred to as central auditory processing disorder (CAPD).
These kinds of problems are more likely to occur when a person with APD is in a noisy environment or when he or she is listening to complex information. APD goes by many other names. Sometimes it is referred to as central auditory processing disorder (CAPD). Other common names are auditory perception problem, auditory comprehension deficit, central auditory dysfunction, central deafness, and so-called word deafness.. Auditory processing is a term used to describe what happens when your brain recognizes and interprets the sounds around you. Humans hear when energy that we recognize as sound travels through the ear and is changed into electrical information that can be interpreted by the brain.