3. Immediately place steaks in the middle of the hot, dry pan. Cook 1 to 2 minutes without moving; turn steaks with tongs, and cook another 1 to 2 minutes. 4. Transfer the pan with the seared steaks to the hot oven. Roast in the center of the oven until the steaks are cooked to your liking, about 3 to 5 minutes. Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness:
1 Place a tablespoon of unsalted butter on each of the steaks and place the skillet directly in the oven. 2  Turn the heat down to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (51.6 degrees Celsius). 3  Cook the steaks in the oven for eight to 12 minutes. 4  Cut into one of the steaks to see if it's cooked to your taste. 
Instructions. 1  PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. Remove from oven. HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min.
Flip the steak and cook for an additional 1-2 minutes over high heat. You won't need as much time on the second side of the steak because it will continue to develop color (from contact with the bottom of the pan) in the oven.
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. Grind on black pepper. Immediately place the steak in the middle of the hot, dry skillet. Cook 30 seconds without moving. Turn with tongs and cook another 30 seconds, then put the pan straight into the oven for 2 minutes.
About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F).
1 Place steaks in skillet and sear steaks until well-browned and crusty, about 1 1/2 to 2 minutes, lifting once halfway through to redistribute fat underneath each steak. ( 2 Reduce heat if fond begins to burn.) Using tongs, turn steaks and cook until well browned on second side, 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Heat oil in 12-inch heavy-bottomed skillet over high heat until smoking. 2
1 Return the steak flat in the pan. 2  Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook until an instant-read thermometer reads to desired doneness (oven cooking time will be anywhere from 5-15 minutes depending on the desired doneness of your steak --- for medium-rare 140-145 degrees and for medium 155-160 degrees. 1 Season the steak/s with black pepper, then allow the meat to sit at room temperature for 1 to 1-1/2 hours. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 3  Heat the oil in a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat or just until the oil begins to lightly smoke.
1 PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. 4  Remove from oven.HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min.nstructions. 1